HOFFHEINS V. RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ot.

the bill of exceptions that any money was paid to Goodfellow,
the person left by Potter in charge of his office, which was not
due the United States from pre-emption entries made by persons who had proved the settlement and improvement of the
land to the satisfaction of both the receiver and register. If,
therefore, this contention of the plaintiffs in error is sustained,
we should, in effect, decide that the sureties of the receiver
would not be answerable for public moneys paid, with his concurrence and assent, to his assistant or cashier, but only for
moneys actually paid into the bands of the receiver himself.
It requires no argument to expose the fallacy of such a conclusion. If a public officer sees fit to allow the money of the government to be paid during his absence from his office into the
hands of his agent or servant, it is a good payment to him, and
the risk is with him and his sureties and not with the government.
Judgment affirmed.

IoFF.EINs v. RUSSELl.
1. Claims 1, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14,16, and 19 of reissued letters-patent No. 2224, granted
April 10, 1866, to Reuben Hoffheins, for an "improvement in harvesters,"
the original, No. 35,315, having been granted to him May 20, 1862; and
claims 1, 2, 6, 7, and 9 of reissued letters-patent No. 2490, granted Feb. 19,
1867, to him, for an "improvement in harvesters," the original, No. 40,481,
having been granted to him Nov. 3, 1863, and reissued in two divisions, one,
No. 1888, Feb. 28, 1865, and the other, No. 2102, Nov. 7, 1865; and No. 2490
having been issued on the surrender of No. 2102, - considered; and the difference between the specifications and the drawings of No. 35,315 and those
of No. 2224, and that between the raking apparatus and rake-support of No.
2224 and those of the defendants, pointed out.
2. There is no warrant in No. 35,315 for locating the rake-support, or any part
of it, on the finger-beam, and as each of the above-named claims of No.
2224 has, as an element, either a rake, or a rake and reel, mounted on, or
attached to, the cutting apparatus or the finger-beam, No. 35,315 could not
lawfully be reissued with those claims.
3. The defendants devised a new arrangement of rake, which made it possible
to mount a rake-support on the heel of the finger-beam, where the rakesupport of No. 2224 could not be mounted. The difference between the
yielding belt-tightener of No. 2224 and their arrangement for driving the

Oct. 1882.]

4.

6.

6.

7.

HOFFHEINS

V. RUSSELL.

raking apparatus pointed out, and the latter held not to be a mechanical
equivalent for the former.
No. 40,481 negatives the idea of mounting the rake-post on the finger-beam,
while an element in claim 1 of No. 2490 is the mounting of the raking
mechanism on the finger-beam. In No. 2490, a driver's seat mounted on
the main frame, so as to enable the driver to ride on the machine while the
rake is in operation, is an element in claims 1 and 9, while the driver's seat
in No. 40,481 is not, and cannot be, in such a position that the driver can
ride on the seat while the rake is in operation.
The raking apparatus is an element in claims 2, 7, and 9 of No. 2490, and, in
view of the differences between the two machines, in the construction of
the raking mechanism and the arrangement and location of the rake-post,
the rake of claims 2, 7, and 9 is to be construed to be such a rake, and one
so arranged, on a rake-post so mounted, as is shown and described in the
specification, and thus does not include the defendants' raking mechanism
or rake-post.
The driving device in claims 6 and 7 of No. 2490 held not to include the
defendants' driving device, the former being an extensible tumbling shaft
and the latter a chain belt with open links, and patentability or invention
inhering only in the device and not in its location.
No cause of action is established against the defendants on either of the patents sued on.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Ohio.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
M1r. George H. Christy and M1r. John H. B. Latrobe for the
appellant.
31r. George Harding and 31r. John B. Bennett for the appellees.
M.. JusTICE BLATC FORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
This suit is brought for the infringement of two reissued
letters-patent granted to Reuben Hoffheins, the appellant. One,
No. 2224, was issued April 10, 1866, for an "improvement in
harvesters," the original patent, No. 35,315, having been issued
to him May 20, 1862. The other, No. 2490, was issued Feb.
19, 1867, for an " improvement in harvesters," the original
patent, No. 40,481, having been issued to him Nov. 3, 1863, and
reissued in two. divisions, one, No. 1888, Feb. 28, 1865, and the
other, No. 2102, Nov. 7, 1865, and No. 2490 .having been issued
on the surrender of No. 2102.
No. 2224 contains nineteen claims, and No. 2490 contains

BiOFFHEINS V. RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ot.

nine claims. In No. 2224, claims 1, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14, 16, and
19, and in No. 2490, claims 1, 2, 6, 7, and 9, are alleged to have
been infringed. The Circuit Court rendered a decree that the
appellees had not infringed any invention of which the appellant was the original and first inventor, recited in the two
reissues sued on ; that No. 2224 "contains inventions different
from that contained " in No. 35,815; that No. 2490 contains
inventions different from that embraced in No. 40,481; that
the said reissues respectively are, therefore, void; and that
the bill be dismissed. From this decree this appeal is taken.
In No. 2224 the claims in question are these: "1. A sweeprake, which is mounted upon the heel of the finger-beam
proper, or upon the inner front corner of the platform of a
harvester which has its cutting apparatus and platform hinged
to the draft-frame, all in such manner that the rake-arm sweeps
the platform from front to inner side, and maintains a correct
position in relation to the finger-beam and platform during the
rising or falling movements thereof on the joint or joints by
which the finger-beam is connected to the draft-frame, substantially as set forth." " 8. In a harvesting machine which has
its cutting apparatus hinged or jointed to the main frame in
such manner as to allow it to conform at both ends to the
undulations of the ground, and a rake mounted upon the said
cutting apparatus, or upon the platform thereof, I claim so
constructing and arranging the several parts, that the support
of the rake can occupy a position outside of the inner drivewheel B, or a position which is between the point of suspension h and the outer divider G, and can also be hung or be
suspended below the draft-frame, substantially as described."
"9. Effecting a combination of a rake and reel, located substantially as described, and a finger-beam and platform, with
the main frame, by means of a hinged draw-bar, b, and hinged
brace, I, or hinged suspender, f, and an extension bracket, 2,
or their equivalents, substantially as and for the purposes
described."
"11. Preventing a too sudden or abrupt deflection of a rake and reel mounted upon a hinged-joint cutting
apparatus, by carrying the point of suspension beyond the
rake-support toward the centre of the draft-frame, by means
substantially as described." "12. A continuously revolving

Oct. 1882.]

O 2OFFHEINS V. RLUSSELL.

rake, which is mounted directly and wholly upon the platform
or finger-beam, so as to rise and fall therewith independently
of the draft-frame, when said rake is located between the centre
of the draft-frame and the outer divider, and passes in at the
front of the machine upon the platform and sweeps around
to the inner side of the platform, substantially as described."
" 14. The combination of a suspended hinge-joint cutting
apparatus of harvesters, and a combined rake and reel, which
is mounted directly and wholly upon the suspended platform
or hinged finger-beam, substantially as and for the purpose
described." "16. The combination of a combined rake and
reel, mounted upon a hinged-joint cutting apparatus, and a
yielding belt-tightener, substantially as and for the purpose
described."
"19. Providing, in a harvester with the rake
attached to its hinged finger-beam or platform, an extensible
means for driving the rake, which will permit the platform and
rake to rise and fall together, and accommodate themselves
independently of the draft-frame to the undulations of the
ground, substantially as described aud for the purpose set
forth."
The original patent, No. 35,315, in stating what the invention is, says that it consists of certain improvements "in the
manner of mounting and operating a revolving rake." There
were three features set forth in the specification of No. 35,315 :
1. The peculiar construction of the reel and rake. 2. The
peculiar form and location of the rake-post. 3. The peculiar
manner of operating the rakes. There were only three claims
in No. 35,315, one covering each of said three features, as follows: " (1.) A combined reel and rake, rotating upon a vertical axis, and having its arms successively turned up into an
inverted position to pass over the main frame, substantially as
explained." " (2.) The inclined standard 1, rigidly mounted
upon a loosely hinged platform, and employed to support a
revolving reel and rake in an unchangeable position in relation
to the said platform, without obstructing the free motion of the
latter." "(3.) The yielding and swivelled rod Q operating in,
combination* with the band P and pulleys 0 and R, in the
manner and for the purposes herein shown and explained."
A copy of the model filed in the Patent Office with the

HOFFHEINS

v.

RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ot.

original application for No. 35,315 is in evidence. The invention shown in the specification of No. 35,315 consists, in
general terms, in mounting a rake upon a quadrant-shaped
platform, said platform being hinged to the frame of a twowheeled machine in such manner that the raking-arms will
maintain at all times a proper working position relatively to
the surface of the platform, and at the same time receive
motion from driving mechanism mounted on the main frame,
the result being accomplished by constructing the raking apparatus in a peculiar manner, and mounting it in a peculiar manner upon the platform of the machine, and, also, by connecting
the driving mechanism of the rake with the driving mechanism
on the main frame, by a belt mounted in a peculiar manner, so
that the varying changes in the position of the platform and
the raking apparatus relatively to the main frame and the
gearing therein will not affect the driving mechanism of the
rake. The specification says: "D is a segmental platform,
provided with a divider, E, at its outer end, and resting upon a
roller, e. F is a draw-bar, connected at front by a universal
joint to the frame A, and attached at back to a shoe, f, upon
which the inner side of the platform may rest. G is a lateral
brace-rod, hinged at one end beneath the right-hand rear corner
of the main frame, and at the other to the draw-bar F, or
shoe f. H is a link by which the inner end of the platform is
suspended from the back of the main frame." This language
describes the parts which relate to the platform'and the devices by which it is attached to the main frame, and by which
it is permitted to vary its movement relatively to the main
frame, to conform to the unevenness of the ground, and there
is nothing else on the subject in the text of the specification.
In the drawings of No. 35,315 the suspending link H, by which
the inner side of the platform is suspended from the main
frame, so as to keep it on a level with the wheel at the outer
shoe, at the opposite side of the platform, is attached at its
lower end to an arm which extends out from the platform
nearly to, but short of, the middle of the width of the tread of
the left-hand driving-wheel B, but the drawing represents the
central line of the link H as in the vertical plane of the lefthand edge of the tread of the wheel B, so as to put the point of

Oct. 1882.]

OHOFFHEINS v. RUSSELL.

suspension in a vertical line with the left-hand edge of the
tread of the wheel B. The model referred to shows the link as
being suspended at a point on the frame to the right of the
vertical plane of the left-hand edge of the tread of the wheel,
but not to the right of the vertical plane of the middle of the
width of the tread. In the reissue great stress is laid upon this
point of suspension. In the specification of the reissue it is
said: " From the inner corner of the finger-beam or platform,
or from the metal foot-piece of the rake and reel-support, by
which the support is screwed to and braced on the platform
and finger-beam, a strong bracket, 2, is extended beyond the
left-hand side-beam of the draft-frame. To the extremity of
this arm a swinging-link or chain, f, is loosely connected or
jointed, as at g, and by means of this link or chain the fingerbeam, platform, and rake, though arranged at the left of the
left-hand drive-wheel B, can be suspended from a point which
is to the right of the said left-hand side-beam. The suspension
is effected by hanging the upper end of the link or chain to
the rear beam of the draft-frame, as represented at h." In the
drawings of the reissue the point of suspension of the link is
located a little to the right of the vertical plane of the middle
of the width of the tread of the left-hand driving-wheel, and
the arm or bracket to which the lower end of the link is
attached extends to a point beyond, and at the- right-hand of,
the middle of the width of such tread. In the specification of
No. 35,315 the word "1finger-beam" is not found, nor is a
finger-beam described in it or shown in the drawings.
As to the method of mounting the rake, the specification of
No. 35,315 says: "I is a post rigidly secured to the inner side
of the platform, and inclining over the rear of the main frame;
i is a brace-rod extending from the draw-bar to the said post,
to support the latter at top; J is a box mounted on the top of
the post 1, and constituting the bearing in which the disk K
rotates. The rakes or reel-arms L L'are mounted in couples
upon the ends of horizontal shafts M M', which are journalled
at right angles across the rotating disk K." This is all that is
found in that specification as to the location of the axis of the
rake. On the other hand, the specification of the reissue says :
"Fig. 9 is a rear elevation of a portion of the machine, show-

HOFFHEINS v. RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

ing the manner of suspending the rake and reel-support upon
the hinge-joint finger-beam or platform thereof." The drawings of the reissue show a finger-beam, and it is lettered, and
referred to by letter in the text. The specification of the reissue further says: "It is also important to have the suspension of the rake made in such a manner that the base of the
support of the axis of the rake is wholly upon the hinged
finger-beam, or the platform thereof, and also that the rake,
the finger-beam, and the platform shall be rigidly connected
together." Here the word "finger-beam" is again introduced,
as important in connection with the support of the axis of the
rake. The expert for the defendants states that the drawings
of No. 35,315 show the base of the support of the rake so far
back, or to the rear of the front edge of the platform, that it
cannot, in his opinion, be brought in contact with the fingerbeam, without changing its locality very materially, or the
mode of its construction or attachment. But the specification
of the reissue says: "D is the finger-beam and E the platform
of the harvester, the cutting apparatus and guard-fingers being
left off. F is a support for a combined rake and reel. This
support is mounted rigidly upon the inner front corner of the
platform and heel of the finger-beam, but it may be mounted
either wholly on the finger-beam or wholly on any part of the
platform which is to the left of the left-hand drive-wheel B, or
to the right of said drive-wheel, if it is a right-hand machine."
There is no warrant in the original patent for locating the
rake-support, or any part of it, on the finger-beam.
As to claim 1 of the reissue, the finger-beam is made an
element of the combination, while in the specification and
drawings of No. 35,315 there is no reference to a finger-beam.
Moreover, the raking apparatus of the appellant is so constructed that when one of the arms has descended to force the
grain towards the platform and to sweep across the platform,
the opposite arm must be raised to such a point as to clear the
wheel of the machine. The arms are in pairs, and the motion
of one arm of a pair is controlled by the motion and operation
of the opposite arm of that pair. The inclination of the two
to each other is such that when one is sweeping across the
platform the other forms an exactly opposite angle to the axis

Oct. 1882.]

O OFFHEINS

V. RUSSELL.

on which they both revolve. Therefore, the support of the
rakes must be so mounted that they can descend to the grain
at the proper point in front of the cutters to press in the grain
and sweep across the platform and deliver the gavels and then
rise out of the way of the frame. To effect this, the point of
vibration of the pair of arms must be raised so high and carried over towards the frame so far, that the descending arm
may reach its proper position to do its work, while the other
arm of that pair shall clear the frame in rising. Therefore,
the support of the raking apparatus was required to be of such
form and character and so placed relatively to the platform
and frame, that one arm of a pair would not interfere with the
working of the other arm of the same pair. Now, the arms of
the raking apparatus are diametrical arms, the centres of
which are axes mounted on a horizontal head, which head is so
fastened on a vertical shaft that, the opposite ends of the arms
being inclined to the axis of rotation, one end of one arm will
descend and sweep across the platform, while the other will be
carried in an exactly opposite direction, with its rake-teeth
turned up while the teeth of its opposite arm are turned down.
In such an arrangement, the bearing point or axis of rotation
of the arms must be carried up a considerable distance above
the platform and reach over in a diagonal direction from the
front edge of the cutters to the delivery edge of the platform,
so that the rake at its end next the base of the rake-support
may be brought close enough to the platform to do its work.
Hence, the inclined post of No. 35,315, described as so inclined
and thus claimed in claim 2 of that patent. But, in the specification of the reissue, though the drawings show the same
sort of inclined post or standard, it is said: "From the platform or finger-beam the support mnay extend in an inclined
position as high as the top of the draft-frame, and then take a
turn over toward the centre of said frame, as represented, so as
to form a support for the rake and reel which shall be somewhat higher than the frame and between the two drive or
supporting wheels. The particular shape and height of this
support is not very material, so long as the base of it is affixed
at some point between the centre of the main frame A and
the outer shoe or divider G." The special kind of support

HOFFHEINS v. RUSSELL.

[Slip. Ot.

described and shown in the patents, original -and reissued, is
essential to the operation of the special kind of raking apparatus there described. But the appellees' machine has a raking
apparatus differently organized. In it each arm moves independently of every other arm, the arms are not coupled in
pairs, and each does its work without reference to the movement of any other. Therefore, it is unnecessary to raise the
supporting point of the rake-arms to any considerable height
or to carry it over to a location between the drive-wheels, and
in the appellees' machine the pivot on which the rakes revolve
is at a considerable distance towards the outer shoe and is not
all between the drive-wheels. The appellees' sweep-rake is
not substantially such a sweep-rake as is referred to in claim 1
of the reissue, nor is it mounted in such a manner as to perform the functions of the appellant's rake. The rake-post in
the appellees' machine is vertical and not inclined, and is
mounted on the shoe or inner end of the finger-beam.
In analyzing the two machines, in view of the state of the
art, it appears that the appellant adapted a continuously revolving gathering and discharging rake to a two-wheeled loosely
jointed finger-bar machine. To do this he employed a peculiar
rake and a peculiar rake-support. The appellees employ an
entirely different rake. They hatie a series of radial arms
pivoted each independently of every other in a head, which
has a double cam guideway for each arm, and the arms are
thereby elevated vertically so as not to strike the frame in
passing up. This makes it possible for the appellees to place
the support for their rake on the finger-beam by the side of
the frame and in the line of the cutters instead of behind the
frame. No such organization is possible with the appellant's
arrangement of rakes. The centre of movement of his rakes
must be brought in line with the cutters by having an inclined
rake-post, the base of which is not in a vertical line with the
line of the cutters. He shows no mode of placing the base of
the post on the finger-beam. If it were placed there, with his
arrangement of rake-arms, and his inclined post, the centre of
motion of the arms would be so far out of its proper position
that the arms would not do their work. Having independent radial arms, the appellees can have a vertical and not an

Oct;. 1882.]

HOFFHEINS V. RUSSELL.

inclined rake-post, and can bring the centre of motion of the
arms in a line with the cutters by mounting the vertical post
on the finger-beam. They do this, and for that purpose they
have a bridge over the inner shoe of the finger-beam for the
foot of the rake-post to rest on, while at the same time the
cutters can vibrate under the bridge. The post is hollow and
supports the cam guideway, and the vertical shaft which revolves the rakes passes up in and through the hollow post.
The appellees have not borrowed from the appellant. They
devised a new arrangement of rake which made it possible for
them to mount their rake-support on the heel of the fingerbeam proper, where the appellant can never mount his and
where that of the appellees is mounted. The theory of the
reissue appears to be that, as the original patent shows a
special device for supporting a special arrangement of rakes,
such device being located on a particular part of the platform
other than, and not possible to be, a part of the finger-beam,
he can claim in a reissue any device for supporting a revolving
rake, even one located on the finger-beam. To carry out this
view, the word "finger-beam" is interpolated in the specification, in this connection, as an addition to the word "platform,"
and the rake-post is described as being attached to the fingerbeam or the platform. But there is an entire absence in the
original specification, and in the reissued specification, of any
description of any means by which the rake-support can be
attached to or mounted on the finger-beam, or by which the
rakes can be made to work with the rake-support in that location, or by which the connecting-rod of the cutters can be free
to work with the support so placed. The law of reissues never
at any time, or under any construction, allowed that to be
done which has been thus attempted in this case.
The foregoing views apply also to claims 8, 9, 11, 12, 14, 16,
and 19, being all the other claims alleged to have been infringed, and each of which has, as an element, either a rake,
or a rake and reel, mounted on or attached to the cutting apparatus or the finger-beam.
In the reissue claim 2 is substantially the same as claim 1 of
the original, claim 5 (with the interpolation of the fingerbeam) is intended to take the place of claim 2 of the original,

HOFFHEINS V. RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ot.

and claim 18 corresponds with claim 3 of the original. Yet
the appellees' machine is not alleged to infringe either claim 2,
claim 5, or claim 18 of the reissue, nor does it embrace what
was covered by any one of the three claims of the original.
As to the yielding belt-tightener of the appellant, which is the
subject of claim 3 of the original patent and is an element in
claim 16 of the reissue, the appellees' machine does not employ
any device which performs the function of tightening a belt.
It uses, to communicate motion from the main axle to the raking apparatus, an old form of chain belt, composed of square
open links, connected by loops of metal between the links, and
the links arranged to run over sprocket-wheels, which have
teeth on them corresponding to openings in the links of
the chain, and which prevent the chain from slipping on the
wheels. As the links of the chain engage positively with the
teeth on the sprocket-wheels, there is no need of a belt-tightener, as no slackness in the chain can interfere with the driving action. The only function of the appellees' device which
holds up, by a yielding pressure, the under part of the chain
belt, is to so guide that part, when slack, that the teeth on the
sprocket-wheels may readily enter the links of the chain. The
appellant's belt could not, in the same position, drive the raking
apparatus so as to make it work properly. The appellees, by
the use of sprocket-pulleys and a chain, dispense with a tight
friction-band, and with a pulley around which the platform
vibrates, and with a tightening pulley. Their arrangement is
not an equivalent, in mechanism or functions, for that of the
appellant.
"Itis made an element of claim 11 of the reissue that-the point
of suspension of the platform to the main frame is carried beyond
the rake-support toward the centre of the draft-frame, by means
described in the specification, so as to prevent a too sudden or
abrupt deflection of the rake and reel. The specification of
the reissue says, that "it is important that the great weight of
the rake, finger-beam, and platform shall not cause the draftframe to tilt over on its right-hand drive-wheels by sudden and
abrupt motions, but shall tend to insure a square run of the
draft-frame upon the ground during the pitching or rising and
falling motions of the finger-beam, platform, and rake, and thus

Oct. 1882.]

HOFFHEINS v. RUSSELL.

an even and easy draft for the team be secured." But the reissue shows the point of suspension of the platform to the main
frame as being nearly under the axis on which the rake-arms
revolve, and said point is near the vertical plane of the middle
of the width of the tread of the drive-wheel which is next to
the cutters, so that the inner end of the platform is subject to
all the vertical motions of such drive-wheel. The point of suspension being in the pathway of the wheel, the rising or falling
motion of the wheel must be communicated to that end of the
cutters which is next to such wheel. In the appellees' machine the suspension of the platform is made by an arm extending out from the finger-bar or inner shoe to a point about
opposite the centre of the main frame, and which arm is there
suspended by a chain to a hook on the frame, so that the
weight of the cutting apparatus and rake and inner part of
the platform is transferred to a point nearly central between
the drive-wheels. The appellant's structure shows no such
organization, and does not involve what the appellees have
done.
For the foregoing reasons, without considering the many
other questions raised in the case, it must be held that the
appellant has not established any cause of action against the
appellees on reissue No. 2224.
In No. 2490 the claims in question are these: "1. The
combination, in a two-wheeled hinged-joint machine, of a
driver's seat mounted upon the main frame, with a raking
mechanism mounted upon the finger-beam, and rotating around
a vertical axis, or one nearly so, substantially in the manner
described, for the purpose of enabling the driver to ride on the
machine while the rake is in operation." "2. The combination,
in a two-wheeled hinged-joint machine, of a shoe with a hinged
joint in it, with a rake and platform having an extension, J2,
and with a draft-frame which sustains the weight of the cutting apparatus and raking apparatus with platform attached,
at a point between the two drive-wheels." "6. Driving a
revolving rake, or a combined revolving rake and reel, which
move about a vertical or nearly vertical axis, by a device arranged on the grain side of the inner drive-wheel or inner side
of the draft-frame." "'7. Making a direct driving connection

HOFFHEINS V. RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

between a revolving rake, or a combined rake and reel, which
move about a vertical or nearly vertical axis, and the inner
.end of the main frame axle of the draft-frame." "9. The
combination of a quadrant platform, hinged finger-beam, revolving rake, and a driver's seat supported by the main frame."
The original patent, No. 40,481, says that the improvements
covered by it consist, 1st, in a peculiar construction and combination of frame, gearing, and double driving-wheels; 2d, in a
device for affording protection to the main crank-shaft and
strengthening the main frame; 3d, in the use of a movable
tongue; 4th, in a device for permitting the finger-beam to turn
freely on its own axis. There were only four claims in No.'
40,481, one covering each of said four features, as follows: "1.
The main frame and gear-frame A A, constructed as described,
open at each end, when used in combination with shafts, gearing, and double driving-wheels arranged and operating substantially as and for the purposes specified." "2. The flange a
cast or formed upon the gear-frame for the combined purposes
of strengthening the latter and protecting the crank-shaft E,
"3. The movable tongues K,
as hereinbefore explained."
adapted to be attached to the frame on either side of the wheel
B', and employed to support or raise the inner end of the beam."
"4. Attaching the shoe to the drag-bar by a transverse swiveljoint, to permit the finger-beam to turn its axis to elevate or
depress the joints of the fingers, or to fold the beam against
the frame for transportation, when combined with bracingguides hl, substantially as herein described."
Every one of the four claims of No. 40,481 - the iron frame
cast in-one piece, the flange, the movable tongue, and the transverse swivel-joint - is omitted from the reissue, and there are
no corresponding claims. The rake-support is of the same.
form and in the same location as in No. 35,315, inclined and
mounted on the platform, and not on the finger-beam, and the
inner end of the platform is suspended on the main frame in the
same way as in No. 35,315. The specification of No. 40,481
says: "On the inner side of the grain platform, near the heel
of the finger-beam, is firmly mounted a post, R, which may
incline over toward the main frame, as shown in Figure 1."
This passage negatives the idea of mounting the post on the

Oct. 1882.]

HOFFHEINS V. RUSSELL.

finger-beam, and draws a distinction between the platform and
the finger-beam as a location for the attachment of the post.
The only mention of a driver's seat in No. 40,481 is this: "W
represents the driver's seat." In the specification of the reissue the following language is found: " My first improvement
consists in the combination, in a two-wheeled hinged-joint machine, of a driver's seat mounted upon the main frame, with a
raking mechanism mounted upon the finger-beam, and rotating
on a vertical axis, or one nearly so, substantially as hereinafter described, for the purpose of enabling the driver to ride
upon the machine while the rake is in operation." Again, after
describing the construction and arrangement of the rake or
reel arms, which are the same as in No. 35,315: "By this
means the rake- and reel-arms will stand high enough above
the draft-frame on the inner side of the machine, to move clear
of the driver, who sits upon the machine in a seat, W, which
is mounted upon the main frame, as shown, or in any other
position on the frame that will give the greatest convenience
and advantage from his weight and use of his hands in the
management of the machine." Again: " From the foregoing
description it will be seen that my invention enables me to
combine in a self-raking harvester all the advantages derived
from the two-wheeled hinged-joint machine, and still use a rake
that turns about an axis, or revolves entirely about the same,
and at the same time have the driver or manager ride upon
the main or draft frame in such a position that his weight may
aid in counterbalancing the weight of the rake and platform,
and his hands may be conveniently employed for controlling
the machine."
As to claim 1 of the reissue, although there is in No. 40,481
a driver's seat mounted on the main frame, it is not in such a
position, nor can it be placed on the frame described in such a
position, that the driver can ride on the seat while the appellant's rake is in operation. The appellees' raking apparatus
has been above described. The appellant's raking apparatus
is like that of No. 35,315 and of reissue No. 2224. If the appellant's raking apparatus were substituted in the appellees'
machine for their raking apparatus, no person could ride on
the driver's seat located anywhere on the frame of the appelVOL. XVII.

10

HOFFHEINS V. RUSSELL.

[Sup. C

lees' machine, as it is constructed, with the rake in operation.
The seat shown in the drawings of No. 2490 is mounted on a
portion of the frame which extends to the rear of the main axle,
and the seat itself is shown as placed in the rear of said axle.
Consequently, a driver located on said seat would add his
weight on the same side of the main axle on which the raking
apparatus is mounted, so that the idea of any counterbalancing
weight from the position of the driver is negatived by the arrangement. In the appellees' machine, the organization of the
raking mechanism, before described, is such that the driver's
seat may be located towards the front of the main frame,
where he cannot be struck by the rake-arms, and where his
weight will aid in counterbalancing that of the rake and the
platform. No such organization of raking mechanism is shown
or described in No. 2490, nor any such arrangement of seat
relatively thereto. Moreover, claim 1 of No. 2490 requires
that the raking mechanism be mounted on the finger-beam.
Such a construction is not shown or described in No. 2490, or
in No. 40,481. The raking apparatus in the appellees' machine is mounted directly on the finger-beam. The views
hereinbefore expressed in connection with No. 2224 apply to
No. 2490, so far as the mounting of the rake-post on the fingerbeam and the arrangement of the raking mechanism are
concerned.
As to claim 2, the raking apparatus is made an element in
it, and the differences, before pointed out, between the two
machines, in the construction of the raking mechanism and the
arrangement and location of the rake-post, lead to the conclusion that the rake mentioned in claim 2 must be construed to
be such a rake, and one so arranged, on a rake-post so mounted,
as is shown and described in the specification, and thus does
not include the appellees' raking mechanism or rake-post.
As to claim 6, the driving device must be limited to one
substantially the same as that of the appellant. He has an
extensible tumbling-shaft. The appellees have a chain belt,
with links, before described. Their arrangement requires that
the axis of the driving-wheel and the driven-wheel shall be
substantially parallel, while No. 2490 requires that in the appellant's structure the axes of the two wheels, or the ends of

Oct. 1882.]

MONTCLAIR V. IRAMSDELL.

the axes, shall incline towards each other at a considerable
angle. The tumbling-shaft, if used, must be used in such a
location that the chain belt would not work in the same place.
The two devices are not mechanical equivalents for each other.
One could not be substituted for the other without a rearrangement of parts. Their only resemblance is that both communicate motion. The place where the device is arranged, namely,
as the claim says, on the grain side of the inner drive-wheel or
inner side of the draft-frame, imparts no patentable or inventive quality, in this case. That inheres only in the device.
In regard to claim 7, the appellant's raking apparatus and
driving device are elements in it, and the observations before
made apply, so that the appellees' raking apparatus and driving device are not covered by this claim.
Claim 9 includes the rake and the driver's seat, and, under
the views before stated, the appellees' machine cannot be held
to infringe that claim.
These conclusions make it unnecessary to consider any other
question.
Decree, in so far as it dismisses the bill, is
Affirmed.

MONTCLAII

v. RA3ISDELL.

1. The township of Mlontclair in the county of Essex, New Jersey, had authority to issue bonds to be exchanged for bonds of the Mlontclair Railway
Company.
2. The Constitution of New Jersey provides: " To avoid improper influences
which may result from intermixing in one and the same act such things as
have no proper relation to each other, every law shall embrace but one object, and that shall be expressed in the title." Held, 1. That this provision
does not require the title of an act to set forth a detailed statement, or an
index or abstract, of its contents; nor does it prevent uniting in the same
act numerous provisions having one general object fairly indicated by its
title. 2. That the powers, however varied and extended, which a township may exercise constitute but one object, which is fairly expressed in
a title showing nothing more than the legislative purpose to establish such
township.
3. The conflict between the Constitution and a statute must be palpable, to justify the judiciary in disregarding the latter upon the sole ground that it

