McLAUGHLIN V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Or.

action was based upon the negligence of the city in failing
to keep the bridge properly lighted. If another person had
met -with a similar fate at the same place and from a like
cause, it would tend to show a knowledge on the part of the
city that there was inattention on the part of their agents having charge of the bridge, and that they had failed to provide
proper means for the protection of persons crossing on the
bridge. As it tended to prove this fact it was admissible;
and if the appellants had desired to guard against its improper
application by the jury, they should have asked an instruction
limiting it to its legitimate purpose."
Other cases to the same general purport might be cited.
See Augusta v. Hafers, 61 Ga. 48; House v. Metcalf, 27 Conn.
631; Calkins v. City of Hartford, 33 id. 57 ; Darling v. Westmoreland, 52 N. H. 401; Hill v. Portland Rochester Railroad Co., 55 Me. 438 ; Kent v. Town of -Lincoln, 32 Vt. 591;
City of Delphi v. Lowery, 74 Ind. 520. The above, however,
are sufficient to sustain the action of the court below in admitting the testimony to which objection was taken.
Judgment affirmed.

MCLAuGHLiN v. UNITED STATES.
1.Where a bill was filed in the Circuit Court by the District Attorney in the
name of the United States, to vacate a patent for lands, but no objection
touching his authority to bring the suit was made, and a duly certified copy
of a letter whereby he was directed by the Attorney-General to institute
the requisite proceedings was filed here, - Held, that the decree for the coinplainant will not be reversed on such an objection raised here for the first
time.
2. The patent in question, bearing date May 31, 1870, and issued to a railroad
company, in professed compliance with the terms and conditions of the
grant made by the acts commonly known as the Pacific Railroad Acts,
covers lands which, the bill alleges, contain valuable quicksilver and cinnabar deposits, and were known to be "mineral lands" when the grant was
made and the patent issued. This court, being satisfied that the material
allegations of the bill are true, that as early as 1863 and since cinnabar was
mined upon the lands, and that at the time of the application for a patent
their character was known to the defendant, the agent of the company.
who now claims them under it, affirms the decree cancelling the patent and
declaring his title to be null and void.

Oct. 1882.]

MCLAUGHLIN v. UNITED STATES.

3. Qumre, What extent of mineral, other than coal and iron, found in lands will
exclude them from the said grant; and can the United States maintain a
suit to set aside a patent, if, before it was issued, the lands therein mentioned were not known to be mineral, and, if so, what are the rights of
innocent purchasers from the patentee.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of California.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Henry Beard for the appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney-General Maury for the United States.
Mtn. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
John M. Coghlan, District Attorney of the United States
for the District of California, on behalf of the United States,
brought in the court below the bill in this case against Charles
McLaughlin and The Western Pacific Railroad Company, to set
aside a patent of the United States, bearing date May 31,1870,
and conveying to the company the northeast quarter of section 29,
township one north, range one east, of Mount Diabolo meridian.
This patent was made under the acts of Congress granting
to the Union Pacific, Central Pacific, and Western Pacific Railroad Companies the alternate sections of public land within
certain limits on each side of their respective roads, and authorizing the issue of patents for the same when the work should
be done and the sections ascertained. There were excepted
out of this grant, among others, such sections or parts of sections as were mineral lands.
The bill alleges that the quarter-section in question is, and
at the time of the grant was, mineral land, and as it was
known to be such, the patent therefor was issued by inadvertence and mistake without authority of law.
The patent itself is not in the record as an exhibit, or as a
part of the evidence. The railroad company, though made a
defendant, was not served with the subpcena and did not
appear. McLaughlin, the only defendant who appeared, defends as purchaser two degrees removed from the company.
Instead of a general replication to his answer, the reply is an
amendment to the original bill. A decree was rendered for
the complainant, and he appealed.

MCLAUGHLIN V. UNITED STATES.

['qup. Ot.

The whole record is so imperfect and the case so obscurely
presented that we feel tempted to dismiss it. Waiving, however, these objections, there is enough to enable us to consider
the two principal errors assigned by the appellant. The first
is that there is no sufficient evidence that the suit was instituted under the authority of the Attorney-General, according
to the principle established in United States v. TVrockmorton,
98 U. S. 61. To this it may be answered that the objection was not raised below, as it was in that case; that the
case is argued here on behalf of the government by the Assistant Attorney-General, who files a certified copy of the order of
the Attorney-General directing the District Attorney to bring
the suit in the Circuit Court, as requested by the Secretary
of the Interior. We think the decree, under these circumstances, can hardly be reversed now, on this ground, taken
here for the first time.
The other objection to the decree in favor of the United
States is that the evidence does not establish that the land in
controversy was mineral land when the patent was issued.
An examination of the evidence on this subject convinces us
that the circuit judge was right in holding that it was. It is
satisfactorily proven, as we think, that cinnabar, the mineral
which carries quicksilver, was found there as early as 1863;
that a man named Powell resided on the land and mined this
cinnabar at that time, and in 1866 established some form of
reduction works there; that these were on the ground when
application for the patent was made by defendant, McLaughlin, as agent of the Western Pacific Railroad Company, and
that these facts were known to him. He is not, therefore, an
innocent purchaser. Concurring as we do with the Circuit
Court in the result arising from the evidence, we do not deem
it necessary to give in this opinio4i a detailed examination
of it.
This being the first case of the kind in this court, a class of
cases which may possibly be indefinitely multiplied, it is to be
regretted that it was not more fully presented in the Circuit
Court. Many interesting questions might arise in this class of
cases not proper to be considered in this case. For instance,
the nature and extent of mineral found in the land granted or

Oct. 1882.]

PANA v. BOWLER.

patented which will bring it within the designation of mineral
land in the various acts of Congress, in which it is excepted
out of grants to railroad companies, and forbidden to be sold or
pre-empted as ordinary or agricultural lands are.
Suppose that when such land has been conveyed by the government it is afterwards discovered that it contains valuable
deposits of the precious metals, unknown to the patentee or to
the officers of the government at the time of the conveyance,
will such subsequent discovery enable the government to sustain a suit to set aside the patent or the grant? If so, what are
the rights of innocent purchasers from the grantee, and what
limitations exist upon the exercise of the government's right?
We can answer none of these questions here, and can only
order that the decree below be
Affirmed.

PANA v. BOWLER.
1. The act of the General Assembly of Illinois approved Feb. 24, 1869, amendatory of an act entitled "An Act to incorporate the Illinois Southeastern
Railway Company," approved Feb. 25, 1867, removed the limitation of
30,000 imposed upon the amount which, by the latter act, "any town in
any county under township organization is authorized and empowered to
donate to said company."
2. The court reaffirms the ruling in Harter v. Kernochan, 103 U. S. 562, that the
duly signed and countersigned township bonds, payable to the company or
bearer, which recite that they are duly issued in compliance with the vote
of the legal voters of the township, cast at an election held by virtue of
the above-mentioned acts of Feb. 25, 1867, and Feb. 24, 1869, are valid in the
hands of a tona fide holder.
3. An irregularity in conducting the election will not defeat a recovery on the
bonds, or on the coupons thereto attached, nor overcome the presumption
that the plaintiff, in the usual course of business, became at their date the
holder of them for value.
4. A decree in personlam, rendered by a court of the State of Illinois, declaring
the bonds to be void, does not bind a non-resident holder of them who was
not named as a party to the suit and did not appear therein, and who had
no notice of the pendency thereof other than by a publication addressed
to the "unknown holders and owners of bonds and coupons issued by the
town of Pana."
5. Coupons after their maturity bear interest at the rate prescribed by the law
of the place where they are payable.
VOL. XVIL
34

