WOOD V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. ot.

WOOD V. UNITED STATES.
The rank and pay of retired officers of the army are subject to the control of
Congress.
APPEAL

from the Court of Claims.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Halbert -E.Paine for the appellant.
Hr. Assistant Attorney- General Maury, contra.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an appeal from the Court of Claims. The claimant,
Thomas J. Wood, was appointed to the office of colonel of the
2d Regiment of Cavalry, in the Army of the United States, in
November, 1861, having been commissioned as a brigadier-general of volunteers in October, 1861. In December, 1862, while
in command of the first division, left wing, of the 14th Army
Corps, he was wounded at the battle of Stone River. In September, 1864, while in command of the third division of the
4th Army Corps, he was wounded at the battle of Lovejoy's
Station, Georgia. These divisional commands were the commands of an officer of the rank of major-general, but he was
not commissioned as a major-general of volunteers until January, 1865, nor brevetted as a major-general in the army until
March, 1865.
Section 82 of the act of July 28, 1866, c. 299, provides as follows: "Officers of the regular army, entitled to be retired on
account of disability occasioned by wounds received in battle,
may be retired upon the full rank of the command held by
them, whether in the regular or volunteer service, at the time
such wounds were received." In January, 1868, General Wood
was ordered, at his own request, to appear before a retiring
board. In February, 1868, the board made the following finding: "The board is of the opinion that Brevet Major-General
Thomas J. Wood, Colonel 2d United States Cavalry, is incapacitated for active service, and that said incapacity is the
result of three wounds received in battle in the line of his duty,

Oct. 1882.]

WOOD V. UNITED STATES.

while commanding a division of troops in the service of the
United States." This finding was approved by the President,
and by his authority and direction this order was issued from
the Adjutant-General's Office, June 9, 1868: "Brevet MajorGeneral Thomas J. Wood, Colonel 2d United States Cavalry,
having, at his own request, been ordered before a board of
examination, and having been found by the board to be physically incompetent to discharge the duties of his office on account of wounds received in battle, and the finding having
been approved by the President, his name will be placed upon
the list of retired officers of that class in which the disability
results from long and faithful service, or some injury incident
thereto. In accordance with sect. 32 of the act approved
July 28, 1866, General Wood is, by direction of the President,
retired with the full rank of major-general." General Wood
accepted the rank of major-general on the retired list, as contained in said order, and received the pay of that rank from
June 10, 1868, to March 3, 1875.
Section 1 of the act of March 3, 1875, c. 178, entitled "An
Act for the relief of General Samuel W. Crawford, and to fix
the rank and pay of retired officers of the army," provides that
the retirement of General Crawford, as a colonel, for disability
on account of a wound received in battle, shall be amended so
that he shall be retired and be borne on the retired list of the
army as a brigadier-general, "he having held the rank of a
brigadier-general at the time he was wounded," his retired pay
as brigadier-general to commence from the passage of the act.
The second section provides as follows: "All officers of the
army who have been heretofore retired by reason of disability
arising from wounds received in action shall be considered as
retired upon the actual rank held- by them, whether in the regular or volunteer service, at the time when such wound was
received, and shall be borne on the retired list and receive pay
hereafter accordingly; and this section shall be taken and construed to include those now borne on the retired list placed
upon it on account of wounds received in action." The section
contains some exceptions, which it is not contended apply to
the case of General Wood.
On the 23d of March, 1875, an order was issued from the

416

WOOD V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. at.

Adjutant-General's office, providing that, by direction of the
President, and conformably to said act of March 3, 1875, the
retired list of the army, under the heading, "Officers retired
with the full rank of the command held by them when
wounded, in conformity with sections 16 and 17 of the act of
August 8, 1861, and section 32 of the act of July 28, 1866,"
is amended to fix the rank of the following named officers,
from March 3, 1875, as below enumerated: Brigadier-generals, Thomas J. Wood (heretofore major-general), and two
other major-generals; colonels, three brigadier-generals; lieutenant-colonels, two colonels; major, one colonel; mounted captain, one lieutenant-colonel; captains, two colonels; mounted
first lieutenants, two mounted captains; first lieutenants, three
captains, and one mounted first lieutenant; second lieutenant,
one mounted second lieutenant.
There were seventy-threa officers retired on the rank of the
command held by them when wounded, nnder sect. 82 of the
act of 1866. Of these, all but nineteen fell within the exceptions named in sect. 2 of the act of 1875. Of these nineteen,
eight were restored to the rank on which they were originally
retired, after the promulgation of the order of March 23, 1875.
After March 3, 1875, General Wood received only the pay of a
brigadier-general retired, $4,125 per year, the pay of a majorgeneral retired during the same time having been $5,625 per
year. In September, 1879, General Wood brought suit against
the United States in the Court of Claims to recover the sum
of $1,500 a year for four and a half years, as such difference
in pay, claiming that he held the office of major-general on the
retired list of the army by appointment of the President, by
said order of June 9, 1868, and that Congress had no power
to remove him from that office and appoint him to the office of
brigadier-general on the retired list. The Court of Claims dismissed the petition on the merits. The view of that court was
that, under the statutes of the United States in reference to the
army, the office of an officer of the army and his rank are not
necessarily identical; that the office has a rank attached to it,
expressed by its title, when no other rank is conferred on the
officer; that, the office remaining the same, the officer may
have a different rank conferred on him, as a title of distinction,

Oct. 1882.]

WOOD V. UNITED STATES.

to fix his relative position with reference to other officers as to
privilege, precedence, or command, or to determine his pay;
that, by sect. 1274 of the Revised Statutes, the pay of officers
on the retired list of the army is determined by the rank upon
which they are retired; that, by sect. 1094, the officers of the
army on the retired list are a part of the army of the United
States, and, therefore, no one can be upon that list who is not
an officer appointed in the manner required by sect. 2 of art. 2
of the Constitution; that an officer of any grade, on the active
list, thus appointed, may be retired with a different rank from
that which belongs to his office, when Congress so prevides;
that this is not to appoint him to a new and different office, but
is to transfer him to the retired list, and to change his rank,
-while he holds the same office; and that in connection with
this change of rank his pay may be changed. These views
appear to us to be sound. General Wood, holding the office
of a colonel of cavalry in the army, his retirement -with the
rank of major-general, under the act of 1868, did not confer
on him the office of major-general. He remained in the office
of colonel of cavalry, and acquired a higher rank, and higher
pay, as a retired officer. Such rank not being an office, Congress could change his rank, and with it his pay, as it did
by the act of 1875. His actual rank when he was wounded
was that of brigadier-general of volunteers, although the rank
of the command which he then held was that of a major-general. The rank of his command when wounded was the test
of rank and pay under the act 'of 1866, while his actual rank
when wounded, whether in the regular or volunteer service,
was the test of rank and pay under the act of 1875. Congress
had the same right to change the claimant's rank and pay, by
reducing them, that it had to change the rank and pay of General Crawford, by sect. 1 of the act of 1875, by increasing
them, the standard in both cases being the actual rank held by
the officer at the time he was wounded. The offices of both
were left untouched. The pay of retired officers is a matter
entirely within the control of Congress, and so is their rank.
Judgment affirmed.
VOL. XVII.

27

