Oct. 1882.]

DAVIS v. SOUTH CAROLINA.

DAvis v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
1. Section 643 of the Revised Statutes, which provides for removing to the
Circuit Court suits or criminal prosecutions commenced in a State court
against "any officer appointed under or acting by authority of any revenue
law, or any person acting under or by authority of. such officer," applies to
marshals of the United States, their deputies and assistants, when engaged
in enforcing a revenue law of the United States.
2. Where such a prosecution is duly removed, the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court completely vests, and the subsequent action of the State court, forfeiting the recognizance of the defendant for hii non-appearance there, is
corain non judice and void.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of South Carolina.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

The Solicitor-Generalfor the plaintiffs in error.
Te Attorney- General of South Carolina,contra.
MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.
Lemuel Davis was indicted for the murder of one Hall in
the Court of General Sessions for the County of Spartanburg,
in South Carolina,. in July, 1876 ; and, being in custody, it was
ordered by the court that he be enlarged on giving bail for his
appearance at the next term of the court, it being required that
the bond should contain a condition that it should be forfeited
in ease the prisoner should be ordered beyond the limits of
the State by the .proper authority of the army of the United
States. He entered into a recognizance accordingly, the other
plaintiffs in error being his sureties.
The prisoner thereafter presented to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of South Carolina a petition,
which is set out in the record, as follows :

Cc"UNITED

STATES OF AmERICA,.

"1Districtof South Carolina,Fourth Circuit:
"To the Judges of the Circuit Court" The petition of Lemuel J. Davis, corporal of Company K, 18th
U. S. Infantry, shows:
"That some time in February, 1876, he was detailed to serve as
one of a guard of United States soldiers to aid Deputy Marshal
James Jarrett in making the arrest of one Brandy Hall under a

DAVIS v. SOUTH CAROLINA.

[Sup. Ct.

warrant issued by a U. S. commissioner, for violation of internal
revenue laws as a distiller.
"That said guard of U. S. soldiers consisted of two men under
the command of First Lieutenant W. A. Miller, 18th U. S. Infantry. That said guard, under command of said Lieutenant Miller,
proceeded with Deputy Marshal James Jarrett to the house of said
Brandy Hall, for the purpose of arresting him. That for the purpose of making the arrest, the house of said Hall was surrounded.
This petitioner was stationed at the back door of the house for the
purpose of guarding the same, and preventing the escape of said Hall.
That the deputy marshal, Jarrett, went to the front of the house
for the purpose of effecting an entrance, and arresting said Hall.
That at the time he did so, and while your petitioner was guarding
the back door, said Hall made his escape through a hole in the side
of the house near where petitioner was standing, sprang past him,
frightening his horse, and accidentally discharging his piece.
"That by the discharge of his said piece the said Hall was shot
and mortally wounded, and subsequently died of said wound. Your
petitioner shows that at the time of said accident he was in the
discharge of his duty, and that said shooting of said Hall was
purely accidental, and your petitioner is in no way responsible therefor. Your petitioner shows that he has been arrested and bound
over for trial in the Circuit Court of the State of South Carolina for
Spartanburg County for the murder of said Hall.
"That an indictment by the grand jury of that county for murder was found at the August term of said court against your petitioner, and your petitioner was put upon his trial thereon. That
the jury before whom he was tried found your petitioner guilty of
manslaughter. That the court thereupon set aside said verdict and
granted a new trial. Your petitioner shows that he is illegally and
unlawfully, held for trial under the order of said court, and prays
your honors to grant a writ to remove said cause for trial in the
Circuit Courts of the United States for the District of South Carolina, now being held at Columbia in said State.
"(Signed)
LEMUnL J. Dvis."
"Personally appears before me, Corporal Lemuel J. Davis, who,
being duly sworn, deposes and says the above petition is true of his
own knowledge.
LEMUEL J. DAvs."
"Sworn and subscribed before me the second day of December,
A. D. 1876.
[sEAL OF cOURT.]
"J. E. HAGOOD,

"C. C. C. U. S. Di8 . of B. C.

Ot. 1882.]

DAVIS v. SOUTH CAROLINA.

"UNITED STATES OF Am]RICA,

"District of South Carolina, Fourth Circuit:
"EX-PAnTE, LEMUEL J. DAvIs, P
" Petition for ]meas cos.
"18th U. S. Infantry.
"I certify that I represented the petitioner upon his trial at
Spartanburg; that I have examined the proceedings against him,
and have carefully inquired into all the matters set forth in the
petition of the said Davis, and believe them to be true.
"Wm. E. EARLE."
On the hearing of this petition, Dec. 4, 1876, it was ordered by the court that a writ of habeas corpus cum causa
do issue, to be served according to law on the clerk of the
Circuit Court for Spartanburg County, and that the marshal
do take said Corporal Lemuel J. Davis into his custody, to
be dealt with according to law.
On March 12, 1877, an order was made by the circuit judge
for the county of Spartanburg in the Court of General Sessions,
reciting that the said Lemuel J. Davis had failed to answer
when called according to his recognizance, and directing process
against him and his sureties to appear and show cause why
judgment should not be confirmed against them and their recognizance adjudged to be forfeited.
The plaintiffs in error accordingly appeared and answered
the rule, alleging the removal of the cause into the Circuit
Court of the United States by the proceedings recited, by reason whereof the said Lemuel Davis was not bound to appear
for trial in the Court of General Sessions for the County of
Spartanburg, and that consequently there had been no breach
of the condition of the recognizance.
Upon this return to the rule to show cause judgment was
rendered against the plaintiffs in error, which, on appeal to the
Supreme Court of the State, was affirmed. To reverse that
judgment the present writ of error is prosecuted.
The learned Attorney-General of South Carolina, who appears here on the part of the State, very properly waives all
questions arising in this case which are covered by the decision
in Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U. S. 257.
He seeks to distinguish the present case, however, from that,

DAVIS v. SOUTH CAROLINA.

[Sup. Ct.

upon its circumstances, and claims that Davis was not entitled,
by virtue of the capacity in which he was acting, to the benefit
of sect. 643, Rev. Stat., and to that end maintains the proposition that, as that section applies only to an "officer appointed
under or acting by authority of any revenue law of the United
States, or any person acting under or by authority of such
officer," it cannot be extended to embrace the case of United
States marshals or their deputies or assistants, even when they
are engaged in the service of process issued for the arrest of
parties accused of violation of the revenue laws of the United
States.
In our opinion the distinction cannot be maintained. A
marshal or deputy marshal of the United States is, it is true,
not an officer appointed under a revenue law; but when engaged officially in lawful attempts to enforce a revenue law, by
the arrest of persons accused of offences against it, he is an
officer acting under the authority of that law; for it is that law
under which is issued the process, which constitutes his authority for his official action. There is, indeed, the general
law, prescribing the nature of his duties, which requires him
faithfully to execute all lawful process placed in his hands for
that purpose; but when process, issued under a particular law,
is lawfully issued to him for service, in executing it, he is
acting under the authority of that law, without which the process would not be valid. It is that law which he would be
compelled to rely on as his justification if he was sued as a
trespasser for executing the process issued for its enforcement.
And the protection which the law thus furnishes to the marshal and his deputy, also shields all who lawfully assist him in
the performance of his official duty. It is not questioned that
Davis was acting in that capacity. It is true, he was a noncommissioned officer in the army, detailed as a guard in aid of
the marshal, and acting as one of his posse comitatus; but this
was before such service became unlawful by the passage of the
fifteenth section of the act of June 18, 1878, c. 263. Sup.
Rev. Stat. 361.
The prosecution against Davis was removed into the Circuit
Court in strict compliance with the statute. His petition set
out the necessary facts showing that the homicide which was

Oct. 1882.]

DAVIS V. SOUTH CAROLINA.

charged against him as a crime took place while he was in discharge of his official duty; it was verified, and certified as
required by law. The writ of habeas corpus cum causa, which
was issued upon it, was the writ prescribed by the act of Congress in cases of that description, a duplicate of which it requires shall be delivered to the clerk of the State court; and
thereupon the statute declares that it shall be the duty of the
State court to stay all further proceedings in the cause, and the
prosecution, upon delivery of such process, shall be held to be
removed to the Circuit Court, and any further proceedings,
trial, or judgment therein in the State court shall be void.
When, by virtue of the writ of habeas corpus, the prisoner
was taken into the custody of the marshal, the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court of the United States of his person and of the
indictment against him was completely vested, and that of the
State courts ceased altogether. The recognizance was an incident, and followed the principal case. The obligation to appear
was transferred with the cause, and he was no longer bound to
answer in the court of original jurisdiction. It would have
been unlawful for his bail to have surrendered him to that tribunal. They were consequently discharged from the obligation of the recognizance, so far as it required them to do so, or
to answer for the default. There was, consequently, no breach
of the bail bond in not appearing in the State court, and all
proceedings to forfeit it and render judgment upon it against
the sureties were coram non judice and void. The right to
proceed upon it at all against him or them passed from the
State court with the transfer of its jurisdiction over the person
of the prisoner and the indictment against him.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of South Carolina will
be accordingly reversed, and the cause remanded with instructions to enter a judgment reversing the judgment of the Circuit
Court for the county of Spartanburg, and directing that court
to dismiss the proceeding up'on the recognizance for want of
jurisdiction; and it is
So ordered.

