596

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

business on through lines, it is always in the power of Congress
to make such reasonable regulations as the interests of interstate commerce may demand, without denuding the States
of their. just powers over their own roads and their own
corporations.

LITTLE & Others v. GILES & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA. Submitted October 19, 18856.-Decided November 1, 1886.

'A suit in a State court against several defendants, some of whom are citizens
of the same State with the plaintiff, charging all as joint contractors or
joint trespassers, cannot be removed into a Federal court by defendants
who are citizens of another State, although they allege in their petition for
removal that they are not jointly interested or liable with the other defendants, and that their controversy with the plaintiff is a separate one.
When it appears that the interest of a nominal party to a suit is simulated
and collusive, and created for the purpose of giving jurisdiction to a court
of the United States, the court should dismiss the suit under the provisions of ยง 5, Act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 472. Farmngtonv. illbury,
114 U. S. 138, affirmed.
After removal of a cause in equity from a State court to a courb of the United
States, a motion was made under ยง 5, Act of March 3, 1875, to remand it, on
the ground that the title of one of the parties had been collusively acquired
for the purpose of removal from the State court. A suit at law involving
the same subject-matter was then pending. in the Federal court. The same
issue of collusion had been made in that cause by a plea in abatement, and
the parties stipulated that the issue on the plea in abatement should be
tried and that the decision thereon should be taken and entered of record
as the decision in the action at law, and also of the issues in the suit in
equity as far as they were the same. The trial of the issues on the plea
resulted in a finding that the plea had not been sustained, and this, together with all the evidence, being incorporated into the equity suit, the
motion to remand the latter was denied: Held, That there was nothing in
the stipulation to deprive this court of the power of reviewing the action of
the court below in denying the motion.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

LITTLE v. GILES.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. J. .!. .3arquett, Mr. N. S. Harwood, Mr. John H.
AmeR, and Yr. Walter J. -Lamb, for appellants.
Mr. L. C. Burr and Mr. J. M. Woolworth, for appellee
Giles.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

The original bill in this case was filed in January, 1882, in
the District Court of Lancaster County, in the State of INebraska, to quiet the title of the complainants, some seventy in
number, to certain lots of land in and about the town of Lincoln in that State, severally owned by them (as they allege),
and derived under conveyances in fee from one Edith J. Dawson. The bill alleges that Jacob Dawson died seized of the
lands in 1869, and by his will, dated June 15 of that year,
gave to his wife, the said Edith, all his real and personal estate,
to be and remain hers, with full power, right, and authority to
dispose of the same as to her should seem meet and proper, so
long as she should remain his widow, upon the express condition that if she should marry again then that all the estate, or
whatever might remain, should go to the testator's surviving
children, share and share alike; and appointed his wife executrix; that she duly proved the will, and afterwards, in order
to raise money to pay the debts of her deceased husband, and
advance her children, made the Conveyances referred to, pretending to be, and the defendants represented that she was,
authorized by the power given her in the will to convey the
property in fee. The bill states these conveyances, and alleges
that the complainants, or their grantors, had severally erected
expensive buildings and made valuable improvements on the
lands. The bill further states that the said Edith afterwards,
on the 15th of November, 1879, was reputed to have intermarried with bNie Pickering, and that, upon this marriage,'the
children and heirs of the said Jacob Dawson, namely, William
R. Dawson, Albert L. Dawson, and others named in the bill,
claimed to be seized in fee under the said will, and fraudulently
conspired with one Highland H. Wheeler and one Lionel C.
Burr, attorneys, to cloud and encumber the titles of the com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

plainants by various suits at law; and to ektort money from
them; and that for this purpose the said heirs, without any
consideration, but for the pretended consideration 6f $75,000,
executed and delivered to saiOd Wheeler and Burr a pretended
deed or deeds for said lands, in consideration whereof it was
agreed that the latter should pay and deliver to said heirs onefourth part of whatever they could extort from the complain'ants, and retain the balance for themselves; and that further
to carry out this fraudulent scheme, Wheeler and Burr, on the
AM.th of April, 1880, for the purpose of prosecuting complainants in the United States courts, and for no other consideration whatever, executed a pretended deed for said lands to one
Ezekiel Giles, father-in-law of said Burr, a man of no property
or means, who resided in Iowa; and that they have already
commenced several vexatious suits in ejectment in said courts
against the complainaxfs; and threaten to commence others.
The bill makes Giles, Wheeler, and Burr, and the Dawson
heirs defendants, and prays against all of them an injunction,
a decree to quiet title, and to cancel the fraudulent conveyances made by Dawson's heirs to Wheeler and Burr, and by
Wheeler and Burr to Giles, to establish the complainants' title,
and for further relief.
Wheeler and Burr and three of the heirs of Dawson, namely,โข
Albert L. Dawson, M. S. Dawson, and Melita C. D. Tillman,
filed a disclaimer of any right, title, or interest in the property; and affidavits were filed by thirty one of the co-complainants, denying that they had authorized their names to be
used in the bill, and repudiating all connection with it.
Giles then, on the 28th of February, 1882, presented a petition to remove the cause, as against him, to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Nebraska, alleging that
he was and is a citizen of Iowa, and that the complainants
(those of them who had not repudiated the proceedings) were
citizens of Nebraska and other States; that there were as many
different controversies as there were complainants, each claiming a separate parcel of the land; and that the several controversies were wholly between each individual plaintiff and
himself, and were capable of being fully determined between

LITTLE v. GILES.

599 "

Opinion of the Court.

them without the others being parties; that the several matters
in dispute exceed the value of $500, &c. An order to remove
the cause was made accordingly.
On the .lst of March, 1882, a motion was made by the complainants in the Circuit Court to remand the cause, on the
ground, amongst other things, that it appeared by the pleadings
that Giles is not the real party in interest, but that Wheeler
and Burr, and the heirs of Jacob Dawson, are the really interested parties, and that the action is brought in this court (the
Circuit Court) for their benefit; that all these parties are residents of Nebraska, except Giles, who is a mere nominal defendant. The motion to remand was not granted, although no
action of the court on the subject at this time appears in the
record; but it does appear afterwards, as will be shown here-.
after, that the motion to remand was refused.
On the 5th of April, 1882, Giles filed his answer and a crossbill. The answer denies the charge of fraud, but admits that
the only consideration of the deed from Dawson's heirs to
Wheeler and Burr was $200, and an agreement to pay the heirs
one third of the proceeds which Wheeler and Burr might
recover; it denies that the deed to Giles was made for the
purpose of -suing in the courts of the United States. It states
the marriage of the widow, Edith, and insists that her deeds
conveyed only an estate during her widowhood; and that the
title derived by Giles from the heirs of Jacob Dawson is valid.
It sets out the proceedings in various suits brought against
some of the complainants, particularly one in which the judgment was brought to this court, by which the will of Dawson
was construed in favor of Giles and against the title of complainants. Giles v. Little, 104 U. S. 291.
The cross-bill is filed against all the complainants who did
not repudiate the suit. It describes the different tracts held
by the several complainants, alleges that they took with full
knowledge of the will; that they have received large amounts
of rents and profits ; that their pretensions are a cloud on Giles's
title, and prays for a cQnstruction of the will, a decree to quiet
title, an account of rents and profits, an injunction, a receiver,
&c. The complainants answered the cross-bill, amongst other

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

things denying that Giles had any real interest, and again
raising the question of jurisdiction. It is unnecessary to notice
the other pleadings in the cause. The parties went to proofs,
and, on the final hearing, the original bill was dismissed in
June, 1883, and an account of the improvements erected by
the complainants, and of the rents and profits received by
them, was ordered to be taken under the cross-bill, and in
September, 1884, a decree was rendered in favor of Giles,
directing a surrender of the property held by the complainants
respectively, on payment of the difference, in each case, between the value of the improvements erected and the rents
and profits received. An appeal was taken from each of these
decrees.
The first question to be considered is the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court to hear and determine the case. The complainants contested that jurisdiction from the time of the filing of
the petition of removal, and a great deal of evidence was taken
in reference to the charge that the deed to Giles was collusively made for the purpose of making a case for the Federal
courts.
But before examining that matter, there is another aspect of
the question which presents itself on the face of the pleadings
as they stood when the petition for removal was filed. The
bill charged the defendants as co-conspirators .in a scheme to
raise a cloud on the title of the complainants, and to defraud
them of their property. According to the allegations of the
bill, the deed to Giles was a link in the chain of fraudulent
acts charged. We have repeatedly held that a suit brought
against several defendants, some of whom are citizens of the
same State with the plaintiff, charging them alias joint contractors or joint trespassers, cannot be removed into the United
States court by those who are citizens of another State, although they allege in their petition for removal that they are
not jointly interested or liable with the other defendants, and
that their controversy with the plaintiff is a separate one. We
think that the present case is one of .that kind. The bill, as
we have said, charges the defendants jointly. Giles could not,
by merely making contrary averments in his petition for re-

LITTLE v. GILES.
Opinion of the Court.

moval, and setting up a case inconsistt with "theallegations
of the bill, segregate himself from the other defendants, and
thus entitle himself to remove the case into the United States
court. This matter has been fully considered in the following
cases: Louisville & Nashville Raiload Co. v. Ide, 114 U. S.
52; Farmington v. Pillsbury,114 U. S. 138; Pine v. Tvedt,'
115 U. S. 41; Crump v. Thurber, 115 U. S. 56; Stain,v. .ew
York, 115 M1.S. 248; SZoan v. Anderson, 117 U. S. 278; Insurance Co. v. Huntington, 117 U. S.280; Care v. T-inal, 117
U. S. 34:7; Mining Co. v. Canal Co., 118 U. S.264.
In Loui8jville"& Nrashville Railroad Co. v. Ide, the suit was
originally brought by Ide in the Supreme Court of New York
against several railroad companies forming a continuous line, including the plaintiff in error, to recover damages for the loss of
cotton shipped at one end of the line and destined to the other.
The Louisville and Nashville Company separated in pleading, and denied that the loss had occurred on its road, and removed the case, as to itself, to the Circuit Court of the United
States, alleging in the petition for removal that the controversy with it was a separate one. The Circuit Court remanded
the case, and on a writ of error we affirmed the order to remand.
In delivering the opinion of the court, the Chief Justice said:
"The claim of right to a removal is based' entirely on the fact
that the Louisville and Nashville Company, the petitioning defendant, has presented a separate defence to the joint action by
filing a separate answer tendering separate issues for .trial.
This, it has been frequently decided, is not enough to introduce a separate controversy into the suit, within the meaning
of the statute. Hyde v. Ruble, 104 U. S.407; Ayre8 v. WiRwall, 112 U. S. 187, 192. Separate answers by the several defendants sued on joint causes of action may present different
questions for determination, but they do not necessarily divide
the suit into separate controversies. A defendant has no right
to say that an action shall be several which a plaintiff elects
to make joint. Smith v. Rines, 2 Sumner, 348. A.separate
defence may defeat a joint recovery, but it cannot deprive a
plaintiff of his right to prosecute his own suit to final determination in his own way. The cause of action is the subject-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886. '
Opinion of the Court.

matter of the contrqIjsy, and that is for all the purposes of
the suit whatever the plaintiff declares it to be in his pleadings."
In Pinie v. Tvedt, 115 U. S. 41, the casewas one of malicious
prosecution, and, of course, by the common law, the defendants
could be sued jointly or severally. But the plaintiff had elected
to sue them jointly, as being jointly concerned in the prosecution complained of. The Chief Justice delivered the opinion
of the codrt, and, after citing and reaffirming the case of The
,Louisville & _Tfashville Railroad Co. v. Ide, he said: " The
cause of action is several, as well as joint, and the plaintiffs
might have .sued each defendant separately, or all jointly. It
was for the plaintiffs to elect which course to pursue. They
did elect to proceed against all jointly, and to this the defendants are not permitted to object. The fact that a judgment
in the action may. be rendered against a part of the defendants only, does not divide a joint action in tort into separate
parts any more than it does a joint action on contract."
The present case is clearly within the rule established by
these and the other cases referred to.
But we are also satisfied that the other ground is well taken
-that the deed to Giles was collusively made for the mere purpose of giving jurisdiction to the courts of the United States;
and that for this reason the case should have been remanded
to the State court. We bave examined the evidence on this
subject with some care, and have come to that conclusion.
Whether, under the former practice of the court, .the deed to
Giles, being binding between him and his grantors; Wheeler
and Burr, would have been deemed sufficient to give jurisdiction to the Circuit Court, although made for the purpose of
such jurisdiction,, it is not necessary to inquire. We are satisfied that, by the Act of 1875, Congress intended to introduce a rule that shall put a stop to all collusive shifts and
contrivances for giving such jurisdiction. The language of the
fifth section of- that act is as follows: "That if, in any suit
commenced in a Circuit Court, or removed fromn a State court
to a Circuit Court of the United States, it shall apliear to the
satisfaction of the said Circuit Court, at any time after such suit

LITTLE v. GILES.
Opinion of the Court.

has been brought or removed thereto, that such suit does not
really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly within the jurisdiction of said Circuit Court, or that the
parties to said suit have been improperly or collusively made
or joined, either as plaintiffs or defendants, for the purpose of
creating a case cognizable or removable under this act, the
said Circuit Court shall proceed no further therein, but shall
dismiss the suit or remand it to the court from which it was
18 Stat. 4-72. Here the
removed, as justice may require."
words "really" and " substantially," and the expression i ma properly or collusively made or joined, either as plaintiffs
or defendants, for the purpose of creating a case cognizable
or removable," are very suggestive, and show that, by giving
the Circuit Courts authority to dismiss or remand the cause
at once, if these things are made to appear, it was the intent of
Congress to prevent and put an end to all collusive arrangements made to give jurisdiction, where the parties really interested are citizens of the same State. Of course, where the interest of the nominal party is real, the fact that others are
interested who are not necessary parties, and are not made parties, will not affect the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court; but
when it is simulated and collusive, and created for the very
purpose of giving jurisdiction, the courts should not hesitate to
apply the wholesome provisions of the law.
In Farrmingtonv. Pil buzy, 114 U. S. 138, where certain
bonds of a municipal corporation were declared void by a State
court, as issued under an unconstitutional act, and thereupon
the holders of some of the coupons cut them off and transferred
them to a citizen of another State, at much less than their face
value, and took his note therefor, with an agreement that he
should give them- one half of what he might recover, and the
transferee then brought suit in the Circuit Court of the United
States, we held that this was a collusive transfer, and within the
provisions of the fifth section of the Act of 1875. The Chief
Justice, in delivering the opinion of the court, after showing
that the question of colorable transfers to create a case for the
Federal courts was formerly presented for the most part in
writs for the recovery of real property, and could only be raised

OCTOBER TERM; 1886.

Opinion of the Court,

by plea in abatement; and that if the transfer was shown to
be flotitious and colorable such plea would be sustained, added:
"Such was the condition of the law when the Act of 1875 was
passed, which allowed suits to be brought by the assignees of
promissory notes negotiable by the law merchant, as well as of
foreign and domestic bills of exchange, if the necessary citizenship of the parties existed. This opened wide the door for
frauds upon the jurisdiction of the court by collusive transfers,
so as to make colorable parties and create cases cognizable by
the courts of the United States. To protect the courts as well
as parties against such frauds upon their jurisdiction,.it'was
made the duty of a court, at any time when it satisfactorily
appeared that a suit did not ' really and substantially involve a
dispute or controversy' properly within its jurisdiction, or tpat
the parties Ihad been improperly.or collusively made or joined
.

.

.

for the purpose of creating a case cogniable' under

that act, ' to proceed no further therein,' but to disnfiiss the suit,
or remand it to the State court from which it had been
removed.

.

.

.

The old rule established by the decisions,

which required all objections to the citizenship of the parties,
unless shown on the face of the record, to be taken by plea in
abatement before pleading to the merits, was changed, and the
courts were given full authority to protect themselves against
the false pretences of apparent parties. This is a salutary provision which ought not to be neglected. It was intended to
promote the ends of justice, and is equivalent to an express
enactment by Congress that the Circuit Courts shall not have
jurisdiction of suits which do not really and subs tatitially involve a dispute or controversy of which they have cognizance,
nor of suits in which the parties have been improperly or collusively made or joined for the purpose of creating a case
cognizable under the act."
An examination of the evidence in the present case shows
conclusively, as it seems to us, that it is one of the kind referred
to by the Chief Justice.
The widow, Edith J. Dawson, was married to her second
husband, Pickering, November 15, 1879. Pickering was sworn
as a witness, and says that the marriage was delayed some time

LITTLE v. GILES.
Opinion of tht Court.
on the suggestion of IMs. Dawson that she must first sell her
property, and give her children a chance to make a contract
with Wheeler and Burr. She denies this, it is true; butthe facts
seem to corroborate Pickering's story. She certainly did dispose of most of the lands before the marriage at prices basid
upon the supposition that she could convey a fee; and, in
evident anticipation of the marriage-for it was on the tapis
for a considerable time-on the 15th of September, 1879, the
heirs conveyed their interest in the property to Wheeler and
Burr; and on the 10th of November, only five days before
the marriage, Wheeler and Burr executed an agreement with
the heirs that whenever they (Wheeler and Burr) should come
into possession and be seized in fee simple absolute of the estate,.
or any part thereof, they would quitclaim to the heirs one
undivided third interest, or pay them the value of such third in
cash. This agreement was really the whole consideration of
the conveyance.
The next thing done was the making of the deed from
Wheeler and Burr to Giles, dated April 27, 1880, for the nominal consideration of $75,000, but really for no consideration at
all except an agreement between them, of the same date as the
deed, by which Wheeler and Burr agreed to prosecute all suits
against claimants, at the expense of Giles, for the possession of
the premises, and to render or procure all necessary legal assistance for such purpose; and Giles agreed to pay all expenses
of such suits; and, in the event of final success of any such
suits, to pay Wheeler and Burr the value of one third of the
lands recovered, and to assume and discharge all indebtedness
arising by reason of the contract of November 10, 18'9, made
with the Dawson heirs. A little later Giles gave Burr (who
was his son-in-law) a full power of attorney to act for him in
the matter; to sue, recover possession, sell, lease, mortgage,
and otherwise dispose of the lands, and execute deeds, and
other instruments to that end, and to manage and control the
property. But it nowhere appears that Giles ever advanced
any money or did anything in the matter.
Now, who was Giles, who entered into this large speculation in real estate in Lincoln, amounting in value to over

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

$75,000, and in the hands of adverse claimants, against whom
suits would have to be brought to get possession? He was a
poor farmer, living in Clay County, Iowa, two hundred and
fifty or three hundred miles from Lincoln. He had never seen
the property; he did not know its value; he had never been at
Lincoln: and when, some time after the deed was made to
him, he was told that the property was worth $75,000, he
seemed greatly surprised. He further admitfed that he had
never had the deed in his possession, and had never seen it.
The record has a large mass of evidence on the subject, pro
and con, which it is unnecessary to repeat. The contemporary
declarations of Burr are equally suggestive. He is proved to
have admitted that the deed was made to Giles in order that
suit might be "brought in the United States Court. In July,
1880, he wrote a long and urgent letter to William R. Dawson, one of the heirs, in which .he speaks of the case as his case
and theirs, and that, if properly managed, it would make all
of them rich. Amongst other things, this is what he says:
"Your letter of late date was received, and I want to reply
to some things relating to the suit of the Dawson -Heirs v.
Bacon et al. I have but very little doubt in my mind but
what I shall within four years from to-day win this suit and
get you heirs all this property back again, and thereby not
only make myself, but all of you heirs, independently rich.
Of course it is a long and tiresome and expensive suit, but I
expect and know that, now, while commencing the same. ' Yet
you heirs are all interested with me, and must help me all you
can, as the men I must fight are rich and numerous, arid will
do all they can to delay and hurt my prospects to win the
case. Galey is already helping them all he can, by saying"
that he saw the will about one year after it was put in court;
that your father at the time of his death was heavily in debt,
to the full extent of his property, viz., $10,000, etc., and that
H. S. Jennings drew the will." This evidence might not be
admissible against Giles if it did not appear (as it does) that
they were all concerned and implicated together in carrying
out the general scheme, Burr being the alter ego of Giles, and
Giles of Burr.

LITTLE v. GILES.
Opinion of the Court.

Much more evidence to the same purport is contained in the
record; and although counter-evidence was adduced by the
defendants, we think that the weigbt of it all is decidedly to
the effect that Giles really had no interest in the matter, and
that the deed to him-was made for the sole purpose of giving
the Circuit Court jurisdiction. Being of this opinion, we think
that the court was in error in not remanding the case to the
State court.
It is contended by the appellees, however, that the decision
of the judge in the case at law of Giles against Owens and al.,
upon the plea in abatement in. that case, in which the issue
was whether the deed to Giles was collusively made for the
purp9se of bringing suit in the United States court, concludes
the appellants on that point. A stipulation was entered into
between the parties in this case that the issue on said plea
in abatement should be tried, and that the decision thereon
should be taken and entered of record as the decision upon the
pleas filed in four othei ' actions at law against other parties,
and' also of the issues in this suit as far as they are the
same.
All that this stipulation amounts to, so far as it affects this
case, is, that the trial and decision in the law case should be
regarded as the decision in this. It is the same as if an issue
had been directed by the Circuit Court, and averdict had been
rendered. The decision of the judge was adverse to the appelldnts and in favor of Giles; and, so far as this case is concerned, that decision, -by virtue of the stipulation, is to be
considered as the decision of the Circuit Court, and nothing
more. But all the evidence taken on that trial is incorporated
into this case. and is now before us. If we are satisfied that
the whole evidence in the .case, taken together, including that
before the judge, does not support th6 decision, we are not"
bound by it. We have already stated our conclusion.
The stipulation above referred to, and the adoption thereby
of the judge's decision in the case at law as the decision of the
Circuit Court, obviates another objection made by the appellee,
to i it, that no decision of the Circuit Court was ever made on
the motion'to remand the cause.

