OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY & Others v.
ST. LOUIS, ALTON & TERRE HAUTE RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ST. LOUIS, ALTON & TERRE HAUTE RAILROAD
COMPANY v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COA-"
PANY & Others.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF INDLANA.
Argued January 14, 15, 1886.-Decided April 26, 1886.

When an existing railroad corporation, organized under the laws of one

State, is authorized by the laws of another State to extend its road
into the latter, it dqoes not become a citizen of the latter State by exercising
this authority, unless the statute giving this permission must necessarily be
construed as creating a new corporation of the State which grants this permission.

Where a lease of a railroad for ninety-nine years contained covenants for the
payment of monthly instalments of rent, to keep the road in repair, and to
keep accounts of all matters connected with its business, as affecting the
amount of rent to be paid, which covenants were guaranteed by other parties than the lessee, a bill which shows failure to pay rent, depreciation of
the road, and combination of the guarantors and lessee to divert the earn.
ings of the road to the benefit of the guarantors, presents a case of equitable
jurisdiction when it prays for specific performance of the obligations of the
lease. In such a case a suit at law on each instalment of rent as it falls
due is not an adequate remedy.
Unless specially authorized by its charter, or aided by some ,ther legislative
action, a railroad company cannot by lease or other contract turn over to
another company for along period of time its road and all its appurtenances,
the use of its franchises, and the exercise of its powers, nor can any other
railroad company, without similar authority, make a contract to run and
operate such road, property, and franchises of the first corporation. Such
a contract is not among the ordinary powers of a railroad company, and is
not to be inferred from the usual grant of powers in a railroad charter.
Tomas v. Railroad Co., 101 U. S. 70, reaffirmed.
The act of the Illinois legislature of February 12, 1855, is a sufficient authority
on the part of the St. Louis, Alton & Terre Haute Company to make the
lease sued on in this case.
But if the other party to the contract, the Indianapolis and St. Louis Company, had no such authority, the contract is void as to it; and if the other

PENN. CO. v. ST. LOUIS, ALTON,&c., RAILROAD.

291

Argument for St. Louis, Alton & Terre Haute Railroad Company.
companies had no power to guarantee its performance, it is void as to them,
and cannot give a right of action against them.
An examination of the statutes of Indiana and of the decisions of its courts
fails to show, in the one or the other, any authority for an Indiana railroad
company to make such a contract as that between the principal contracting
companies in this case.
Nor is any authority found in the charters of any of these guaranteeing companies, or of the laws of the States under which they are organized, to guarantee the performance of such a contract as thls ; the parties to it and
the road which it r.Aatc to being outside the limits of these States, and
having no direct connection with their roads.
The doctrine is sound that when acts have been done and property has
changed hands under void contracts which have been fully executed, courts
will not interfere; but relief in such cases must be based on the invalidity
of the contract, and not in aid of its enforcement. While the plaintiff in
this case might recover in an appropriate action the rental value of the use
of its road against the lessee company,. the other defendants who had received nothing, but had been paying out money under a void contract, cannot be compelled to pay more money under the same contract.

This was a bill in equity to enforce specific performance of
a contract of lease of a railway, and contracts of guarantee.
Cross appeals from the decree below. The case is stated in the
ol)inion of the court.

.3f,. folm 3f Bitler and J31>. Joseph E. JcDonald for St.
Louis, Alton & Terre Haute Railroad Company, appellant in
tle second case and appellee in the first, made the following
citations to such of the points made by counsel as are decided
in the opinion of the court.
I. S. L.ut.., Alton, &.Terre HauteRailroad Co. v..3!iller, 43
Ill. 199; Railroad !,.v. Miarris, 12 Wall. 65; Pailway Co. v.
Tv!, ;i4, 13 Wall. 270; biuverance Co. v. .3orse,20 'Wall. 445 ;
,Sh~tai,.s~hp C0. v. Tugman, 106 U. S.118; Xfemp7s &6 Charleston Pad;roadCo. v. Alabama, 107 U. S.581 ; Bank of Augusta
v. Earle, 13 Pet. 519; Railroad Co. v. K'oontz, 104 U. S. 7;
Railroad Co. v. Gebh6rd, 109 U. S. 527;
SouthernP
('anvt2&
.3fidhle

v. .Dows, 94 U. S. 444; Chicago & irortlwe.tern Rail-

road Co. v. Cleicago & Pacific Railroad Co., 6 Bissell, 219;
Willianis v. fYiwsouri Kansas c& Texas Railroad Co., 3 Dillon,
267; Balt;more & Ohio RailroadCo. v. Gallah.ue,12 Gratt. 655.
II. and III. Pittsburgh, Cincinnati & St. Louis Railway Co.

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for St. Louis, Alton & Terre Haute Railroad Company.

v. Columbus Chicago & Indiaia Central Railway Co., 8 Bissell, 456; Tippecanoe County v. Lafayette, .Afuncie & Blooming.
ton RailroadCo., 50 Ind. 85; Pittsburgh,Cincinnati& St.,Louis
Railway Co. v. -Yain,35 Ind. 291; Huey v.Indianapolis& Tincennes RailroadCo., 45 Ind. 320 ; RailroadCo. v. Vance, 96 U. S.
450; Archer v. Terre Haute & IndianapolisRailroad Co., 102
Ill. 493; Railway Co. v. .fcCarthy, 96 U. S. 258; Railroad
Co. v. Pratt,22 Wall. 123; Green Bay & XAinnesota Railroad Co. v. Union Steamboat Co., 107 U. S. 100; Hitchcock
v. Galveston, 96 U. S. 341; Attorney General v. Great Elaitern Railway Co., 5 App. Cas. 473; South Yorkshire Railway
Co. v. Great NXorthern Railway Co., 9 Ex. 55 ; Great Northern
Railway Co. v. South Yorkshire Railway Co., 9 Ex. 642; Smead
v. Indianapolis, Pittsburgh.&Cleveland Railroad Co., 11 Ind.
104; State Board of Agriculture v. Citizen's Street Railway Co.,,
47 Ind. 407; Low v. Central PacijicRailway Co., 52 Cal. 53;
Stewart v. Erie TransportationCo., 17 Minn. 372, 373; Zabrisqkie
v. Cleveland, Columbus & Cincinnati Railroad Co., 23 How.
381; Railroad Co. v. Howard, 7 Wall. 392, 413; Board, etc. v.
Lafayette, etc. Railroad Co., 50 Ind. 85; Flaggv. .Aanhattan
.Railway Co., 20 Blatchford, 142; Hoyt v. Thompson's Executor, 19 N. Y. 207; Van Hostrup v. .XadiqQn,1 Wall. 291.
IV. San .Antonio v. .Mehaey, 96 U. S. 312; Railway Co. v.
foCarthy, 96 U. S. 258; Hitchcock v. Galveston, 96 U..S. 341;,
Nfational Bank v. Graham,100 U. S. 699; Daniels v. Tearney,
102 U. S. 415 ; Gold Xining Co. v. Vational Bank, 96 U. S.
640; NbationalBank v. 3fatthews, 98 U. S. 621; Township oj
Pine Grove v. Talcott, 19 Wall. 666; Oil Creek & Allegheny
Railroad Co. v. Penn. Trans. Co., 83 Penn. St. 160 ; lfoodruTf
v. Erie Railway Co., 93 N. Y. 609, 615; T~itney Arms Co. v.
Barlow, 63 N. Y. 62; Parishv. TFheeler,22 N. Y. 494; Behler v.
German X.tual Fire Ins. Co., (8 I-d.,347; Pancoast v. Travelers' Ins. Co., 79 Ind. 172; Bradley v. Ballard,55 Ill. 413;
Chicago Building Society v. 0owell, 65 Ill. 453; .Darstv. Gale,
83 Ill. 136; Hamilton _ydraulic Co. v. Cincinnati,Hamilton
& Dayton Railroad Co., 29 Ohio St. 341 ; 16ays v. Gallion Gas
Co., 29 Ohio St. 330; Newburgh Petroleum Co. v. Weare, 27
Ohio St. 343; Grant v. WThite, 42 Missouri, 285.

PENN. CO. v.' ST. LOUIS, ALTON, &c., RAILROAD. 293
Argument for Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Railway Company.

_.. Stevenson Burke for Pennsylvania Railroad Company.
and others, appellants in the first case, and appellees in the
second cited to point III., decided by the court, the following cases: Lafayette v. Cox, 5 Ind. 38; Green Bay & .3finnesota Railroad Co. v. Union. Steamboat Co., 107 U. S. 98;
Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet. 519; f.iners' .Ditch Co. v.
Zellerbach, 37 Cal. 543; Thomas v. RailroadCo., 101 U. S. 71;
Vandall v. South San Francisco Dock Co., 40 Cal. 83; Bellmeyer v. .3farshalltown,44 Iowa, 564; Weckler v. FirstIva.
Bank, 42 Maryland, 581, St. Loutis v. Weber, 44 Missouri, 547;
.tatthew8 v. Skinker, 62 Missouri, 329,; Brooklyn Gravel Road
Co. v. Slaughter, 33 Ind. 185; East Anglian Railways Co. v.
.Fatern,Counties Railway Co., 11 0. B. 775; Ogdensburg &
Lake Chanplain Railroad Co. v. ermontg& Ccnada Railroad
Co., 63 N. Y. 176; Davis v. Old Colony Railroad Co., 131
Mass. 258; Troy & Boston Railroad Co. v. Boston Hoosac Tunnel & Western Railway Co., 86 N. Y. 107; THinekleyv. Gildersleeve 19 Grant Ch. U. Canada, 212; Archer v. Terre HZaute
& IndianapolisRailroad Co., 102 Ill. 493; Pearcev. tfadi8on,
& Indianapolis Railroad Co., 21 How. 441 and cases cited]
Tqft v. Piatford,.28 Vt. 286; Franklin Co. v. Lewiston Institution for Savings, 68 Maine, 43; Rock River Bank v.-Sherwood, 10 Wis. 230; Xinor v. . Y. & N. -Y.Railroad Co., 53
N. Y. 363; .Afonument Bank v. Globe IForke, 101 Mass. 57;
Lafayette Savings Bank v. St. Louis Stone Ware Co., ' Missouri App. 299; Central Bank v. Empire Stone Dressing Co.,
26 Barb. 23; Madison &CWatertown Plank Road Co. v. Watertown & PortlandPlank Road Co., 7 Wis. 59; .-Etna Bank v.
Litarter Oak Life In. Co., 50 Conn. 167; Bank of Genessee v.
Patchin Bank, 13 N. Y. (3 Kernan) 309; Woodruf v. Eie
Railway Co., 25 Hun. 246; Chambers v. Falkner, 65 Ala. 448;
.Dowing v. .t. Washington Road Co., 40 N. H. 230; Wiswall v.
Greenville & Raleigh Plank Road Co., 3 Jones Eq. 183; Toll
Bridge Co. v. Osborn, 35 Conn. 7.
.r. Ashley Pond for Lake Shore & Michigan Southern
Railway Co., appellant in the first case, and appellee in the
second cited the following cases not cited by Mr. Stevenson

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.
Burke: Zabriskie v. Cleveland, Columbus & Cincinnati Railroad,23 How. 381; Fail v. Hamilton, 85 N. Y. 453; Rocheste'
Savings Bank v. A'verill, 96 N. Y. 467; Railroad Co. v. Howard,7 Wall. 392; State Board v. Citizens' Railway Co., 47 Ind.
407; -Tow v. Cent. Pac. Railway Co., 52 Cal. 53; Stewart v.
Erie Trans&portation Co., 17 Minn. 372.
Jyr. John T. Dye filed a brief for appellants in the first case
and appellees in the second, citing the following cases not
cited by Mr. Burke: On the first point in the opinion of the
court, Christian Union v. Yount, 101 U. S. 352: And on the
other points, TWittenton Jfills v. Upton, 10 Gray 582; Richardson v. Sibley, 11 Allen 65; Ashbury Railway Carriage& Iron,
Co. v. Riche, L. R. 7 t. L. 653; Stevens v. Rutland &c.Railroad,
29 Vt. 545; Danbury & Forwalk Railroad Co. v. Wilson, 22
Conn. 435; Coleman v. Eastern. Counties Railway, 10 Beav. 1;
Bagshaw v. Eastern Ui on, Railway, 7 Hare, 114; .feGregor
v. Dover & Deal Railway, 18 Q. B. 618; Eastern Counties Railway v. ffawkes, 5 H1. L. Cas. 331; Smead v. Indianapolis,Pittsburgh& Cleveland Railroad Co., 11 Ind. 104;
Narietta & Cincinnati Railroad v. Elliott, 10 Ohio St. 57;
Adkin8son, v. ifarietta & Cincinnati Railroad Co., 15 Ohio St.
21; Strauss v. Eagle I-. Co., 5 Ohio St. 59; Peoria & Rock
Iqland Railway Co. v. Coal Yalley .Xfining Co., 68 Ill. 489;
Railroad Co. v. IT anee, 96 U. S.450.
Mr. JUsTIcE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

These are cross-appeals from a decree of the Circuit Court
for the District of Indiana.
The suit was brought in that court by a bill in chancery,
filed by the St. Louis, Alton and Terre Haute Railroad Company, alleging that it was a corporation organized under the
laws of the State of Illinois, and a citizen of that State, against
the Indianapolis and St. Louis Company, a corporation similarly
organized under the laws of the State of Indiana, and a citizen
of that State, and against the other corporations mentioned in
the bill as citizens of Indiana, or of other States than the State
of Illinois.

PEXN. CO. v. ST. LOUIS, ALTON, &c.; RAILROAD. 295
Opinion of the Court

A final decree was rendered in favor of plaintiff for the sum
of $664,874.70, with costs, and an injunction against several of
the defendants, from which both complainants and defendants
in the court below have appealed.
1. The first question arising on the record is that of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the Indiana district as founded
on the citizenship of the parties.
This questioh was raised at an early stage of the controversy
by a distinct plea to the jurisdiction, and was overruled by the
court. Afterwards, and before the decree, the defendant corporations who had filed this plea withdrew it, and desired to
have the case decided on the merits.
As it is not competent to any parties to confer jurisdiction
on the Circuit Court by a waiver of objections to it, the question is one which lies at the threshold of any further proceeding, and must be decided.
The objection arises out of the admitted fact that the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company is a corporation organized under a statute of Indiana and is a necessary party to
the suit, and the assumption that the St. Louis, Alton and Terre
Haute Railroad -Co. is organized under.laws of both Illinois and
Indiana, and-is, therefore, a citizen of the latter State; as is its
principal opponent in the controversy.
The complainant company owns a road extending from the
:Mississippi River, opposite St. Louis, to Terre Haute, Indiana,
of which only a very few miles-ten or twelve-are within the
State of Indiana. The controversy grows out of a lease of this
road by the complainant company to the Indianapolis and St.
Louis Company. As the complainant company was chartered
originally by the State of Illinois, and is undoubtedly.a citizen
of that State, and in that character would have the right to
sue the other companies in the Circuit Court for Indiana, do
the other facts in the case defeat this right by making it also
a citizen of Indiana?
It does not seem to admit of question that a corporation 6f
one State, owning property and doing..business in another State
by permission of the latter, does not thereby become a citizen
of this State also. And so a corporation of Illinois, authorized

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

by its laws to build a railroad a6ross the State from the Mississippi River to its eastern bioundary, may by the permission of
the State of Indiana extend, its road a few miles within the
]iinits of the latter, or, indeed, through the entire State, and
may use and operate the line as one road by the permission of
the State, without thereby becoming a corporation or a citizen
of the State of Indiana. Nor does it seem to us that an act of
.the legislature conferring upon this corporation of Illinois, by its
Illidois corporate name, such powers to enable it to use and con.trol that part of the road within the State of Indiana., as have
been conferred on it by the State which created it, constitutes it
a corporation of Indiana. It may not be easy in all such cases
to distinguish between the purpose to create a new corporation
which shall owe its existence to the law or statute under consideration, and the intent to enable the corporation already in,
existence under laws of another State to exerbise its functions
in the State where it is so received. The latter class of laws
are common in authorizing insurance companies, banking companies -and others to do business in other States than those
which have chartered them. To make such a company a corporation of another State, the' language used must imply creation or adoption in such form as to confer the power usually
exercised over corporations by the State, or by the legislature,
and such allegiance as a State corporation owes to its creator.
The mere grant of privileges or powers to it as an existing corpor'ation, without more, does not do this, and does not make it
a citizen of the State conferring such powers.
In a case where the corporation already exists, even if
adopted by.the law of another State and invested 'with full
corporate powers, it does not thereby become such new corporation of another State, until it does some act which signifies
its acceptance of this legislation and its purpose to be governed
by it.
We think what has occurred between the State of Indiana
and this Illinois corporation falls short of this.
The origin of this corporation was a special act of the Illinois legislature of 'January 28, 1851,' chartering' the Terre
Haute and Alton Railr6ad 'Company to.construct a road from

PENN. CO. v. $T. LOUIS, ALTON, &c., RAILROAD. 297..
Opinion of the Court.

the State line Aear Terre Haute to Alton; -and by an act of
the Indiana legislature, passed a few days later, this Illinois
corporation was. permitted to extend its road through Indiana
to Terre Haute. Some changes took place in'the name and
power of this company by statutes of Illinois, but none which
affected its powers derived from the Indiana statute of February 11, 1851.
But the property of the corporation was sold out under foreclosure of a mortgage to Robert Bayard, Samuel J. -Tilden,
Russell Sage, and others, who, under an act of the Illinois
legislature, reorganized the purchasers into the corporation
called The St. Louis, Alton and Terre Haute Railroad Company, which is the present company, and which, by the Illinois statute, succeeded to all the franchises of the original,
Terre Haute, &Iton and St. Louis Company. As these included all the powers necessaryto operate the few miles of the
road in Indiana under the act of February 11, 1851, it was unnecessary to seek an act of incorpora& a from that State. It
appears, however, that Bayard, Tilden, and their associates,
did file in the office of the Secretary of State of Indiana a
certificate of the organization of the new company, with the
names of the first directors of it who were to serve until 1863;
and it is argued that this made the St. Louis, Alton and Terre,
Haute Company a corporation of the State.of Indiana. A.
critical examination of this certificate renders it very doubtful
whether that was its purpose, but rather indicates that it was
intended to secure and perpetuate the rights granted to the
Terre Haute and Alton Company by the act of February
11, 1851. At all events, no evidence exists of the agreement
of the new Illinois company to accept of or act under this attempt at organization under Indiana laws. They never held
an election for directors of the Indiana corporation, if one
existed, and they never in any other manner recognized the'
existence of an Indiana corporation of the same name.
Without going into the question whether the plaintiff in this
case, if it were clearly a corporation of both States, could
maintain this suit in the Circuit Court under the decisions in
this court, we are satisfied'that, with reference to its right to

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the -Court.

sue as a citizen of Illinois, it is nw, also, a corporation and
citizen of Indiana under the facts found in this record.
. As regards the asserted existence of the Indianapolis and
St. Louis Company under the law of Illinois, by which it is
asserted to be a citizen of the same State with plaintiff, the
objection is the same as that which was overruled in Railway
* Qo. v. TFAitton, 13 Wall. 210, and in .Mriller v. Dow8, 94 U. S.
444.
2. The next objecfion to the decree is, that the bill does not
present a case for equitable relief, and should have been dismissed for want of jurisdiction in chancery.
To understand the force of this proposition clearly, it is
necessary to make a statement of the case as made by the bill.
It seems that in May, 1867, the St. Louis, Alton and Terre
Haute Railroad Company, plaintiff in the bill, had nearly completed and was operating, from Terre Haute to St. Louis by
way of Alton,'a road about one hundred and eighty-nine miles
long. From Terre Haute to Indianapolis (about seventy
miles) a corporation had been organized under the laws of
Indiana to build a road, and probably had built the whole or
a part of it. Indianapolis was then a railroad centre of im.
liortance, from which roads ran to Chicago and other lake
towns, and to Louisville. Cincinnati, and other towns on the
Ohio River, and to all the principal cities of the Atlantic Coast.
At St. Louis the Terrd Haute and Alton road connected with
the railroad system west of the Mississippi River.
Several of these railroad companies whose traffic was east of
Indianapolis, and all of whom had connection, direct or indirect,
with that city, were desirous of reaching St. Louis with their
business, and made proposal to the complainant company for
the purpose oi accomplishing this result. The companies who
executed the agreements to securi this purpcse, all of whom
were made defendants to the bill, were the Indianapolis, Cincinhad and Lafayette Railroad Company, the Pittsburgh, Fort
Wayne and Chicago Railway Company, the Pennsylvania
Company, the. Bellefontaine Company, the Cleveland, Columbus- and Cincinnati Company, and the Cleveland, Painesville
and'Ashtabula Company.

PENN.CO. v. ST. LOUIS, ALTON, &c., RAILROAD. 299
Opinion of the Court.

Their proposition was .that the Indianapolis and Terre Haute
Company should lease, for a period of ninety-nine years, the
part of complainant's road between St. Louis and Terre Haute,
and thus with its own road make a continuous line between
Indianapolis and St. Louis, and the other companies agreed to
guarantee the payment of the rent and performance of tle
other obligations of the Terre Haute and Indianapolis Company. And it was also agreed that if this company refused to
execute this operating contract, the defendants might procure some other company to build the seventy miles of road
from Indianapolis to Terre Haute, and execute the agreement
in place of the Terre Haute and Indianapolis Company, and in
like manner they would guarantee the performance of its obligations in the lease.
What occurred was that the Terre Haute and Indianapolis
Company refused to execute the contract of lease, a d another
corporation was organized, under the influence and control of
these guaranteeing companies, to build the seventy miles
of road between Indianapolis and Terre Haute, and the line
of road between Indianapolis and St. Louis was thus made
complete. This company was called the Indianapolis and St.
Louis Railroad Company, and it executed the contract of lease
with the complainant company September 11, 1867. At the
same time, the guaranteeing companies, except the Pennsylvania Company, executed a new guaranty as a substitute for
the former. The averments of the bill, however, bring in the
Pennsyivania Company as defendant, by alleging that, in its
lease of the Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne and Chicago road it
bound itself to perform the obligation of this latter company
as one of the guarantors, and that, by signing the original
contract of guaranty for the Terre Tiaute and Indianapolis
Company, it bound itself to the same guaranty for any road
substituted in its place, and, by the further averment, that the
Indianapolis and St. Louis Company, which did enter into the
contract of lease, was in reality but the creature of the companies who signed the original contract of guaranty, the Pennsylvania company included.
This contract of lease between the complainant company

,80

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

and the Indianapolis and St. Louis Company lies at the foundation of all claim for relief in this suit. It is a carefully drawn
instrument- of' nineteen articles. It leases out complainant's
road, from St. Louis to Terre Haute, and a short connecting
line of four miles to Alton, for the period of ninety-nine years,
and it provides for the absolute control of this road by the Indianapolis and St. 'Louis Company, called party of the first
,part, during this period; for its being .kept in repair by that
company; for the payment of a rent by that company to the
party of the second part, the St. Louis, Alton and Terre Haute
Company, which should be regulated by the gross income derived from the use of the road, but in no event to be less than
$450,000 per annum.
Some of these articles of agreement and parts of others important to the issues before us are as follows:
"Article I.
"The said party of the first part-shall, will, and may manage,
operate, aid carry on the business of a certain railroad belonging to the party of the second part, and known as the principal
or main line of the St. Louis, Alton and Terre Haute Railroad,
extending from Terre Haute, in the State of Indiana, to East
St. Louis or Illinoistown, in the said State of fllinois, and also
a certain branch thereof belonging to the party of the second
part, and extending from a point on the said main line to
Alton,' in the said State of Illinois, for and during the period
of ninety-nine years from the first day of June, in the present
year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-seven,
upon and subject to the terms and conditions of this indenture,
and all and singular the provisions.herein contained.
"Article II.
"The said 'party of the first part shall, and will, within a
reasonable time hereafter, finish and put in good order and
condition, any and all unfinished portions of said main line of
*railroad,or of said Alton branch thereof, and any and all parts
or portions of either said main line or said branch which may

PENN. ,CO. v. ST. LO-IS, ALTON, &c., RAILROAD. 301
Opinion of the Court

be in inferior condition gr out of repair; and thereafter, at all
times during the said period of ninety-nine years, the s i'd
party of the first part, its successors and assigns, shall, and will
keep the said main line of railroad, and the said Alton branch
'thereof, in the order and condition of first-class western:railroads, making from time to time all needful repairs, xeplacements, improvements of and additions to the same at thq proper
cost and 'expense of the said party of the first part, without"
deduction or abatement, from the moneys hereinafter provided
to be paid to the party of the second part; and the said party
of the first part shall 'and will, expend, for improvements and
equipments upoi the said line of railroad, in addition to ,the
ordinary expenses of operation, repair, and replacement, a sum
not less in the aggregate than five hundred thousand dollars
before the thirty-first day of December, in the year one thdu-,
sand eight hundred and sixty-eight.
"Article III.
"The said party of the first part shall, and may, for atid
during the term aforesaid, use and apply to and for the business of said main line and branch railroads any and all depots,.
stations; station-houses, car-houses, freight-houses, wood-houses,and other buildinigs, and all machine-shops and other shops,
and all depot grounds and other lands adjacent to the said
main line and branch railroad, or either of them, or used or
acquired for use in connection therewith, including certain
depot grounds at East St. Louis aforesaid."
Article V. authorizes the lessee company to fix all rates of,,;
fare for freight and passengers, with a provision for the protection of other companies not material here.
"Article VI.
"The said party of the first part, keeping and performing
all and singular the terms, provisions, and conditions og these
presents, and making the payments hereinafter required, shall
and may, at all'imes during the period of ninety-nine years
aforesaid, demand, collect, and receive any and all fares,
charges, freights, 'tolls,' rents, revenues, issues, and profits of

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court

the said main line of railroad extending from Terre Haute to
East St. Louis aforesaid, and of the said branch thereof to
Alton aforesaid.
"Article VII.
"The party of the first part shall, in each and every year of
the term of ninety-nine years, pay, or cause to be paid, to the
party of the second part, in the manner and at the times hereinafter provided, thirty per cent. of the gross earnings of the
said railroad from Terre Haute to East St. Louis, and the
branch thereof to Alton, until such gross earnings for such
year shall amount to the aggregate sum of two millions of
dollars, and twenty-five per cent. of any excess over two millions of dollars, until the whole earnings for such year shall
amount to three millions of dollars, and twenty per cent. of
any excess over three millions of dollars of gross earnings for
such year, and such percentage of the gross earnings for each
such year shall be paid over without any deduction, abatement,
or diminution for any cause whatever; every demand or claim
accruing, or to- accrue, to the party of the first part being
hereby declared to be chargeable on that portion of the gross
earning,s which the said party is, by the next succeeding article
hereof, empowered to retain as therein provided; but it is
hereby expressly agreed that the aforesaid payments shall
amount, in each and every year, to at least four hundred and
fifty thousand dollars, which is hereby agreed upon as a minimum for each and every year, and it is to be paid absolutely,
without reference to the percentag -whichit forms of the gross
earnings of such year, and with ut leaving or creating any
claifii or charge upon the earning, of any future year."
"Article XIV.
"The said party of the first part shall and will, during the
whole period of ninety-nine years aforesaid, keep just, full, and
true accounts of any and all business which shall or may be
done upon the said main line of railroad, and the said Alton
branch thereof, or upon either or any part of either thereof,
and of all moneys earned or received from or on account of
such business, and shall render to the party. of the second part,

PENN. CO. v. ST. LOUIS, ALTON, &c., RAILROAD. 303
Opinion of the Court.

monthly during such period, a detailed approximate statement
of such business, showing the receipts and disbursements on
account thereof, and shall also, annually, to wit, on or before
the first day of March in each year, account to and with the
party of the second part for any and all moneys earned or received as aforesaid for and during the year terminating with
the thirty-first day of December preceding the time of such
accounting, and the president of the party of the second part,
or an agent duly authorized by the board of directors, shall, at
all reasonable hours and times during the term aforesaid, have
the right to examine and inspect, and there shall be produced
and exhibited to them, any and all books of account wherein
shall be entered, or which shall purport to contain, any entry
or statement relating to the business done on said main line
and branch railroads, or on any part of either thereof during
the term aforesaid, and any and all vouchers relating to such
business, and shall also have the right to take transcripts from
and copies of such entries or statements and of such vouchers."
The following is the contract of guarantee, signed by the
other railroad companies on the same day that the foregoing
lease was signed by the two principal companies. The reference to the operating contract of the 17tn May, 1807, being to
the one prepared for the Indianapolis and Terre Haute Company which it refused to execute. The recitals are omitted,
and only the language descriptive of the contract of guarantee
is given:
"Now, therefore, this indenture witnesseth, That for and in
consideration of the premises, and of the sum of one dollar to
each of them duly paid, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, the said parties of the first, second, and third parts to
these .resents, for themselves, their successors and assigns, have
covenanted, promised, and agreed, and by these presents do
covenant, promise, aigree, and guarantee to and with the said
party of the fourth part, its successors.and assigns, that the
said Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Con )any shall and will
at all times hereafter keep, observe, and perform all and s ngular the covenants, conditions, and iroviTions of the said operating contract, bearing date on the 17th day of May, in the year

- OCTOBER-.TERM, 1885.
'Opinion of the Court.

of-our Lord 1867, and of the said instrument bearing even 'date
herewith, by which the said Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company has assumed, adopted, or become liable to carry
out the said'operating contract according to the true intent and
meaning thereof : Provided, neverthele8, That all the obliga-

tions, of the parties of the first, second, and third party heretoi
created or intended to be created, hereby, shall be several and
not joint, and as to each of them for the equal third part of
any and. all damages which may arise from any default of the
-said Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company, its successors or assigns in'the premises, or for any breach of this agreement by the said parties of the first, second, or third parts
thereto."
The bill charges, as violations of the contract of, lease, that
the Indianapolis and St. Louis Company has for some time past
.failed to pay the rent as fixed at the minimum of $450,000
per, annum; that it is insolvent, and is in many other respects
in default in regard to its obligations under the operating
contract; that it has not 'kept the road adequately furnished
with equipments, but has allowed it to run down and depreciate, and has resorted to the use of leased cars and.equipments,
instead of purchasing and owning the same; thatthe road is not"
in the order and condition of a first-class western road, as 'required by said contract; that the money which should go to
pay complainant is used to pay for the leased cars; and that the
rails have become worn and the track out of repair. It is also
alleged- that the lessee's road is covered -bya large mortgage,
to secure bonds held chiefly, if not altogether, by the guaranteeing companies, and, in fact, by means of their ownership of
the stocks and bonds of that company, they are drawing from
it the money which should go-to pay complainant's rent and to
purchase rolling-stock and repair, the road. It is then alleged
that suits for the instalments of rent as they fall due, and judgments at law against all the defendants, would be no adequate
remedy. That to do this, or resume possession and control of
complainant's road for non-performance, would not be sufficient
for that purpose. That complainant has a contract with the
defendants more valuable than would be the resumption of the'

PENN. CO. v. ST. LOUIS, ALTON, &c., RAILROAD 305
Opinion of the Court.

possession of the road in its depreciated condition, both in respect to the road and equipments and the traffic over it, so
largely diminished by construction of the road of the Indianapolis and St. Louis Company to the Mississippi River at, St.
Louis by that company, and by the other defendants, on a line
nearly parallel to complainant's road, and not far from it.
The prayer for relief is, that the Indianapolis and St. Louis
Company be required specifically to perform its obligations, in
all the rispects mentioned, and that, in default thereof, the
guaranteeing defendants be required to do so, and that the
latter companies be required to perform, by paying such of
the instalments of minimum rent as the lessee company fails to
do as they fall due; that the companies be enjoined from receiving from the Indianapolis and St. Louis Company interest
on its bonds held by them while it is in arrears for rent, and
also enjoined from selling these bonds; and that a receiver be
appointed to take such a per cent. of the gross earnings of the
company as may be necessary to pay the rent due complainatt.
We have been thus minute in showing the breaches of the
contract alleged in the bill, the condition of the parties as to
ability to perform, and the relief sought, because it is said that
an action at law for the unpaid rent, as often as the instalments
become due, is an adequate remedy, and is all thatthe defendants are liable for. But we cannot concur in this view of
the matter.
If the contracts are valid contracts, and the complainant has
the rights which are guaranteed to it under them, such relief
is very inadequate. To sue for every monthly instalment of
rent, even if the principal and the guarantors can be sued
jointly, is almost equivalent to a denial of justice. If the contract is to continue and the road to be ran by the lessee company, which is insolvent, a monthly resort to a suit at law
against the guarantors is destructive of the substantial right of
the plaintiff under the contract.. Having a valuable contract
in regard to the operation of the road for a great many years
to come, plaintiff cannot be compelled.to forfeit it and resume
possession and sue for -all its damages in one action, because
this would best serve the purposes of the solvent guarantors.
VOL. C=-20

OCTOBER TERM,

1885.

Opinion of the Court.

The Indianapolis and St. Louis Company agreed to keep the
road, its rolling stock, and its equipment in good condition,
equal to a first-class western railroad. The plaintiff has a
right to have this done specifically, and is not bound to bring
action after action for damages at every stage of this depreciation. These suits would be vexatious, unsatisfactory, expensive, and the relief would be inadequate.
A clause in the contract requires the lessee to keep regular
accounts of all the matters essential to complainant's rights.
The examination of these accounts by a master is eminently
appropriate, rather than by a jury. The relief granted by the
decree, of enjoining the guaranteeing companies from collecting the interest on the bonds of the Indianapolis and St. Louis
Company while it is insolvent and in arrears, can only be given
in a court of equity.
In short, the numerous questions, the complex issues, raised
in the case can only be satisfactorily tried in a court of equity,
and that court alone can give full, adequate and complete
remedy for the grievances of plaintiffs growing out of the
violation of this contract, and adjust the extent and nature of
that relief among the parties to it.
We axe of opinion, therefore, 'that if the complainant is
entitled to any relief on the facts of the case, it .is in a court
of equity as distinguished from a court of law.
3. It is objected that the contract of lease between the two
primary parties to that contract, the lessor and the lessee company, was one which they had no power to make, and that,
still less, had the other defendant companies authority to
guarantee its performance by the latter.
In the consideration of this question no reference will be had
to any want of regularity in the proceedings attending the execution of these agreements, nor to the absence of any such
authority as the boards of directors could have given to the
officers of the companies who signed the contracts. It is here
a question pure and simple as to how far the authority to
execute these contracts is sustained by the corporate powers
which the law has vested in these companies.
A case very much like the present one, as it relates to this

PENN. CO. v. ST. LOUIS, ALTON, &c., RAILROAD. 307
Opinion of the Court.

point, was before us some six years ago, and the opinion in
it establishes for this court the main principles on which the
inquiry must proceed.
In that case a railroad company in New Jersey had leased
its road, franchises, and property for a period of twenty years,
yielding as in this case complete control of it all to the lessees,
and receiving as rent one half the gross sum collected by the
lessees from the operation of the road. The agreement contained a condition that the railroad company might at any
time terminate the contract and take possession of its property:
but in that event they should pay to the lessees the value of
the lease for the remaining period of the twenty years to which
the lease extended. The company exercised this option, took
possession of its road, and the suit was brought to recover on
this covenant. Thomas v. 1ailrooacl Company, 101 U. S. 71.
The decision turned upon the power of the company under
its corporate authority to make the lease. The plaintiffs in
error, who were the lessees, insisted that a corporation may, as
at common law, do any act which is not either expressly or
-impliedly prohibited by its charter, although, where the act is
unauthorized, a shareholder may enjoin its execution, and the
State may, by proper process, forfeit the charter. To this the
court responded:
"1We do not concur in this proposition. We take the gen-eral doctrine to be in this country, though there may be exceptional cases and some authorities to the contrary, that the
powers of corporations organized under legislative statutes are
such and such only as those statutes confer. Conceding.the
rule applicable to all statutes, that what is fairly implied is as
much granted as what is expressed, it remains that the charter
of a corporation is the measure of its powers, and that the enumeration of these powers implies the exclusion of all others."
The reports of decisions in the English courts were very fully
examined, as will be seen by the reported statement of counsels' briefs, and many of them specially referred to in the
opinion; also several cases in this court and in the State courts
of this country.
It is not expedient here to go again over the ground there

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

considered, as we are of opinion now, as we were then, that
the great preponderance of judicial decisions supports the proposition above stated.
It has been distinctly recognized,. and repeated in this court
in the case of the Green Bay& -Minnesota Railroad Co. v.
Union Steamboat Co,, 107 U. S. 98.

It is cited with approval in the Supreme -Court of Massachusetts in the case of Davis v. Old Colony -Railroad Co., 13.1
Mass. 258.
This latter opinion is a very full and ab]Qreview of all the
important decisions on that subject, and sustains very clearly
the main propositions.
In this court the principle is completely covered by the decision of the case of Pearce v. .Madion& IndianapolisRailroad
Co., £1 How. 441, decided in 1858. In that case the defendant companies, whose road at one end of it terminated on the
Ohio River, had purchased a steamboat to be used on that river
in connection with their freight and passenger traffic, and. had
given notes for the purchase money. In a suit bn these notes.
this court ruled that they were void for want of any authority.
in the companies to buy the boat, or to engage in the carrying
trade on the river.
The opinion delivered by Mr. Justice Campbell cites several
of the English cases relied on in Zeoma8 v. Railroad Co., and
in -Davis et al v. Old Colony Railroad Co., above referred to,
and concludes with the observation that "the opinion of the
court is, that it was a departure from the business of the corporation, and that their officers exceeded their authority."
This doctrine had been previously asserted with great force in
the case of -New Fork & Maryland Line Railroad Co. v. TWinans, 17 How. 30.
These are all cases in which railroad companies were parties,.
and their powers, as regulated by their charters, were the matters mainly considered. There are many other cases of the
highest authority where railroad corporations are held to the
doctrine laid down in Thomas v. Railroad Co., above cited;
Eastern Counties Railway v. H awkes, 5 H. L. Cas. 331, 371 to
381; Askhlury Railway Carriageand Iron Co. v. Ricke, L. R.

PENN. CO. v. ST. LOUIS, ALTON, &c., RAILROAD. 309
Opinion of the Court.

7 H. L. 653; Mr Gregor v. Dover & DealRailway, 18 Q. B. 61F;
East Anglian Railway8 v. Eastern Counties Railway, 110. B.
775.
We think it may be stated, as the just result of these cases
and on sound principle, that unless specially authorized by its
charter, or aided by some other legislative action, a railroad
company cannot, by lease or any other contract, turn over to
another company, for a long period of time, its road and all its
appurtenances, .the use of its franchises, and the exercise of its
powers, nor can any other railroad company without similar
authority make a contract to receive and operate such road,
franchises, and property of the first corporation, and that such
a contract is not among the ordinary powers of a railroad company, and is not to be presumed from the usual grant of powers
in a railroad charter.
.Wemust, therefore, proceed to inquire if any such powers have
been given to the railroad companies engaged.in this transaction.
There is found in the record a copy of an act of the Illinois
legislature, approved February 12, 1855, of which the following
is the first section:
"Suc. 1. Be it enacted by the -. eople of the State of llinois
represented in the GeneralAssemhly, That all railroad companies incorporated or organized under, or which may be incorporated or organized under the authority of the laws of this
State, shall have power to make such contracts and arrangements with each other, and with railroad corporations of other
States, for leasing or running their roads, or any part thereof,
and also to contract for and hold in fee-simple, or otherwise,
lands or buildings in this or other States for depot purposes;
and also to purchase and hold such personal property as shall
be necessary and convenient for carrying into effect the object
of this act."
Though it might be said that this act only authorizes Illinois
railroad companies to become lessees, we think it must be conceded that this enactment authorized the St. Louis, Alton and
Terre Haute Railroad Company, which we have already said
was exclusively an Illinois corporation, to enter into the lease
or operating contract found in the record.

310

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

But if the other party to the, contract, the Indianapolis and
St. Louis Company, had no such authority, the contract of lease
is void as to it, and if the other companies had no power to
guarantee its performance, it is void as to them, and the capacity of the complainant to make this contract does not make
it valid as against those which had not such capacity, and cannot give a right of action on it against them. In the case of
.Toma8 v. The Railroad Company, the lessees were natural
persons with no disability to contract, but they were held to
,have no remedy on their cbntract, because it was not binding
on the other party for want of a similar power to make the
contract.
An act of the legislature of Indiana of December 18, 1865,
is relied on as by implication conferring this power. Section 8
is as follows:
"SEc. 8. In case any railroad or part thereof shall have been,
or shall hereafter be leased, conveyed, or mortgaged to any
other railroad company, and shall be.in the possession of such
other company, under such lease, conveyance, or mortgage, the
road, or part thereof, so leased,.conveyed, or mortgaged, shall,
during the continuance of such possession, be assessed, for taxation, as the property of the company having such possession,
in the same manner as if it were a part of the road of such
lessee, grantee, or mortgagee, under its own charter; and such
lessee, grantee, or mortgagee, shall, during the continuance of
such possession, have all the rights and be subject to all the duties
and liabilities in relation to the road, or parts thereof, so held,
which are created by this act, and both its property and the
road, or parts thereof,.so held, with its fixtures and the prop.
erty used in operating the same, shall be liable for the payment
of such taxes, in the same manner as railroad property is, in
other cases, made liable for taxes properly assessed against the
same." 3 Ind.Stat., Davis' Ed. (1870), 420, 421.
It will be seen at once that this is a statute for the collection of revenue, and that to make sure of the payment of
taxes due on railroad property the legislatuie has- undertaken
to provide that in cases where the possession has passed out of
the corporation which owns it or has the title, it shall be paid

PENN. CO. v. ST. LOUIS, ALTON, &c., RAILROAD. 311
Opinion of the Court.

by the persons having that possession. Hence, in enumeiating
this latter class it speaks of property leased then or thereafter,
or conveyed or mortgaged, and makes the holder liable during
the continuance of such possession for the taxes.
This precise question, only more strongly presented, in favor
of the affirmance of the lease by the act of the New Jersey
legislature, was decided in
wThm8 v. Railroad Co., 101 U. S.
85. The statute in that case having direct relation to the company which had made the invalid lease, passed after the lease
was made and in ope.ation, declared it should "be unlawfnl
for the directors, lessees, or agents of said railroad to charge
more than three cents per niile for carrying passengers," and
the proviso said "that nothing contained in this act shall deprive
the railroad company or its lessees of the benefit of the provisions of another act," relative to fares on other railroads in
.the State.
This court said that, though "it might be fairly inferred
that the legislature knew that the road was operated under the
lease in that case, it was not important for the purpose of that
act to decide whether this was done under a lawful contract
or not." "The legislature was determined that whoever did
run the road, and exercise the franchises conferred on the
company, and under whatever claims of right this was done,
should be bound by the rates of fare established by that act.
:* *It is not by such an incidental use of the word lessees,
in an effort to make sure that all who collected fares should be
bound by the law, that a contract unauthorized by the charter
and forbidden by public policy is .to be made valid and ratified
by the State."
So here the mention of lessees as possible holders of the
possession of railroad property neither implies that they are
lawfully so, or that such an absolute transfer of road, appurtenauces, franchises, powers, and their control as the one
found in this case, is authorized by law, nor, though it may be
in operation, does it give sanction to or create such a law.
The following section of the act of February 23, 1 8 5 3 rof.
the Indiana legislature is relied on as authorizing this contract:
"SEc. 3. Any railroad company heretofore organized or

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

which may hereafter be organized under the general or special
laws of this State, and which may have constructed or commenced the cohstruction of its road, so as to meet and connect
with any other railroad in an adjoining State at the boundary
line of this State, shall have the power to make such contracts
and agreements with any such road constructed in an adjoining State, for the transportation of freight and passengers, or
,for t e se of its 8aid road,as to the board of directors may
seem proper." Rev. Stat. Ind. 1881, § 3973.
We cannot see in this provision any authority to make conW
tracts beyond those which relate to forwarding by one company the passengers and freight of another, on terms to be
agreed on, and possibly for the use of che road of one company in running the cars of the other over it to its destination
without breaking bulk.
In the case of the Board of Commissioner8 of Tipecanoe
County v. Railroad Co., 50 Ind. 85, 110,-this same statute was
relied on as supporting the authority to make the lease then
under consideration. But the Supreme Court of Indiana said:
"That act is, 'to authorize railroad companies to consolidate
their stock with the stock of other railroad companies in this
or in an adjoining State, and to connect their roads with
the roads of said companies. The title nowhere mentions a
lease or a sale. Indeed, the words to connect their roads with
the roads of other companies, Would seem to exclude such a
conclusion. To connect one road with another does not fairly
mean to lease or sell it to another."
This was said in a case where the whole question turned on
the power of one railroad company to make, and the other to
receive, a lease of the road.
It is cited in the brief of counsel for complainant as sustaining the doctrine that in Indiana the right of railroad companies to lease their roads to other companies is recognized by
the judiciary of that State. We think it proves the opposite.
The lease in that case was held void as being ultra vire8. All
the arguments of the court are based on the proposition
that the corporation can do no valid act unauthorized by
statute, and can make no contract in contravention of public

PENN.CO. v. ST. LOUIS, ALTON, &c., RAILROAD. 313
"Opinion of the Court.

policy. And while it says, "We do* not decide that railroad
companies cannot become lessors or lessees of other railroad
companies, for the purpose of running their lines in conjunction, facilitating commerce, travel, and transportation, or for
any legitimate purpose for which railroad companies are
organized, and there is much in the legislation of the State
favoring this view, and many decisions sustaining the advancing enterprise of the country," it adds: "But all such contracts
must come within the powers of the corporation, must not
exceed the powers of the agency that makes them, must not
violate the rights of stockholders or contravene public policy."
Wedook in vain in this latest decision of the State for any assertion of the proposition that, by the laws of that State or by
the decisions of its courts, there exists any law by which one
railroad company can, by lease or by any other contract, make
an absolute surrender of its road and its franchises to another.
And yet that was the question under discussion, and because
the lease in that case contained a clause of perpetual renewal,
and in effect amounted to a sale, the court held it uotra vires.
What practical difference is there between this and a lease
with the same powers for ninety-nine years?
If that decision does no more, it at least leaves this court free
to follow its own views of the powers conferred by the Indiana
law in regard to this subject on its railroad corporations.
Lastly, it is said that in Railroadv. 'ance, 96 U. S. 450, this
court decided that this same contract was binding on the Indianapolis and St. Louis Company.
That was done on the ground that the latter company was
made a corporation of the State of Illinois by the act of that
State of March 11, 1869, and was using that part of the present
plaintiff's road lying within the State of Illinois, under that
contract. In reference to its liability to pay the taxes on that
part of the plaintiff's road, it was held to be an Illinois corporation, and bound under the Illinois statute by the contract of
lease now under consideration.
But we have just .shown that the Indianapolis and St. Louis
Company was an Indiana corporation when this contract of
leas- was made, which was two years before it became an fl-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

linois corporation by the act of 1869. The present suit is
against it as an Indiana corporation, otherwise it could not be
maintained. The validity of the contract depends on its power
as an Indiana corporation to make it at the time it was made.
It had none then, and no act of the Indiana legislature has
ratified it since. That suit was founded on an Illinois contract
between Illinois corporations to colle6t Illinois revenue, and
was in no sense governed by Indiana law, but by the law of
Illinois.
As regards this lease in a suit against the Indiana corporation, organized under its laws by the name of the Indianapolis' and St. Louis Railroad Company, in the Circuit Court
of the United States for that District, we must hold it to be
void for want of power in the defendant company to make it.
We have been thus careful in our examination into the power
of the lessor and lessee companies in the contract of lease, because if the lease itself is void the contract of the other companies
must be equally so. A contract to perform for the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company obligations which it
was forbidden to assume, and which it'had no authority to
assume, must itself be void. There is no power shown in any
of these companies to accept a lease of the complainant such
as the one in the present case, and perform its conditions, and
they cannot, therefore, become parties 'to such a contract with"
a road outside the State which chartered them any more than
the principal company. If these guaranteeing companies had
executed the original contract of lease it would have been
void for want of authority from the legislature of Indiana, or
of any other State by whose laws they are incorporated or
endowed with corporate power. No such power is shown in
them to lease roads beyond their own States.
Indeed, while there may be a just claim of authority for some
kind of running arrangement between two connecting roads
under the Indiana statutes, there is no connection between the
plaintiff's road and any road of a guaranteeing company. The
connection even by traffic is remote. These companies might
as well have assumed the power to loan them money, or to
endorse their notes, or any other commercial transaction, as to

PENN. CO. v. ST. LOUIS, ALTON, &c., RAILROAD. 315
Opinion of the Court.
guarantee the performance of a void contract by one company
to another.
It may not be amiss to cite one or two cases in which this
power to guarantee the contract of one corporation by another
is more directly in point. Among these are Coleman v. Eastern
Counties Railway Co. 10 Beav. 1; .Xadyls, & *Fatertown
Plank Road Co. v. Tfratertown,& PortlandPlank Road Co., 7
Wis. 59.
In the first of these cases, under the powers contained in the
acts of Parliament, the Eastern Counties Railway Company
and the Eastern Union Railway Company had formed a railroad from London to Manningtree, a place about ten miles from
the port of Harwich. The directors of these companies conceived that it would add to the traffic and profits of the railway if a steam packet company could be formed communicating between iarwich and the northern ports of Europe, and
they accordingly took proceedings for the establishment of such
a company. It was intended that the railway companies should
guarantee to the shareholders in the steam packet company a
dividend of five per cent. per annum upon their paid-up capital
until the dissolution of that company, and that then the whole
paid-up capital should be paid by the railway companies to the
shareholders of the packet company in exchange for a transfer
of its assets.
On a bill by a shareholder of the railway company to enjoin,
it was held by the Master of the Rolls, Lord Langdale, that no
such contract was within the power of the railway companies,
and further proceedings in the matter were enjoined.
Among other things, that learned judge said that, "if there
is one thing more desirable than another, after providing for the
safety of all persons travelling on railroads, it is this, that the
property of the railway companies shall be itself safe; that a
railway investment shall not be considered a wild speculation,
exposing those engaged in it to all sorts of risks, whether they
intended it or not. Considering the vast property which is
now invested in railways, and how easily it is transferable,
perhaps one of the best things that could happen would be
that the investment should be of such a safe nature that

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

prudent persons might without improper hazard invest their
moneys in it. Quite sure I am that nothing of that kind can
be approached if railway companies should be at liberty to
pledge their funds in support of speculations not authorized by
their legal powers, and which might very possibly, to say the
least, lead to extraordinary losses on the-part of the railway
company." This became a leading case in England, where its
doctrines have been steadily followed. It is cited with approval in Pearce v. Madi8on & -IdianapolisRailroad Co., 21
How. 441.
In the case of Madison Plank Road Co. v. atertown Campany, 7 Wis. 59, the former company, in order to aid -the latter company to build a plank road, which was a continuation
of the road of the former, agreed to guarantee a loan made
to the Watertown Company. After the road was built the
Madison Company refused to pay on the default of the Watertpwn Company. The Supreme Court held that the Madison
Campany had no corporate power to guarantee the payment
of the debt of the other company; and, when pressed with the
argument that, by the building of the road, the Madison Company had received the benefit which had induced it to guarantee the debt, the court said it was a contract ultra vire8 and
could not be enforced.
We are of opinion that the guarantee of the obligations of
the lease on the part of the Indianapolis and St. Louis Company by the other defendants is void.
4. It is argued, in support of the decree, that, though the
contract of lease may be void, so that no action cotild originally have been sustained upon it, there has been for ten
years such performance of it, in the use, possession, and-dontrol
of plaintiff's road and its franchises, by the defendants, that
they cannot now be permitted to repudiate, or abandon it:
that it now presents one of a class of cases which hold that
where a void contract has been so far executed that property
has passed under it and rights have been acquired under it,
he courts will not disturb the possession of such property or
compel restitution of money received under such a contract.
Undoubtedly there are such decisions of courts of high

PENN. CO. v. ST. LOUIS; ALTON, &c., RAILROAD. 317
Opinion of the Court.

t

authority, and there is such a principle, very sound in its application to appropriate cases. But we understand the rule in
such cases to stand upon the broad ground that the contract
itself is .void, and that neither what has been done under it, nor
the action of the court, can infuse any vitality into it. Looking at the case as one -where the parties have so far acted
under such, a contract that they cannot be restored to their
original condition, the court inquires if relief can be given
independently of the contract, or whether it will refuse to
interfere as the matter stands. We know of no well considered case where a corporation, which is party to a continuing contract which it had no power to make, seeks to
retract and refuses to proceed further, can be compelled to
do so. As was said in Thomas v. Railroad Co., (a case so
often in point here,) "having entered into the agreement it
was the duty of the company to rescind or abandon it at the.
earliest moment. This duty was independent of the clause in
the contract which gave them the right to do it. Though
they delayed its performance for several years, it was nevertheless a rightful act when it was done.. Can this performance
of a legal duty, a duty both to stockholders of the company
and to the public, give to plaintiffs a right of action? Can
they found such a right on an agreement void for want of
corporate authority and forbidden by the policy of the law?
To bold that they can is, in our opinion, to hold that any act
performed in execution of a void contract makes all its parts
valid, and that the more that is done under a contract forbidden by law, the stronger is the claim to its enforcement by
the c6urts." 101 U. S. page 86.
Whatever may be said in regard to the Indianapolis and St.
Louis Company, there is wanting in the case of the guaranteeing companies one of the strongest reasons usually urged in
support of the estoppel, as it is sometimes called, namely, that
the recalcitrant party has received the money or the property
of the other. For, so far from these guaranteeing companies having received of the plaintiffs any money or property, they are
the parties who have been paying money and the plaintiffs receiving it for rent of its road. They are not, therefore, estopped

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Dissenting Opinion: Bradley, Harlan, JJ.

on any principles of that doctrine from ceasing to pay money
on an illegal contract because they have heretofore done so.
On the contrary, as we have already said, the duties of these
directors to their stockholders is to cease to perform a contract
to which they LWere never bound.
We do not decide the question whether the Indianapolis and
St. Louis Railroad Co. cannot be compelled to pay the plaintiff
for the use of its road, though the contract be void. Whether
it would be so liable on a quantum,meruit admits of doubt. It
is unnecessary to decide this, because that company has submitted to the decree of the Circuit Court in favor of plaintiff
for that rent, by failing to give bond and perfect its appeal
from that decree.
That part of the decree [which requires the Indianapolisand
St. Louis Railroad Company to pay rent] must stand,as no
appealfrom it has been prosecuted. The decree againstthe
other dfendanM, appellants here, is for the reasons given,
reversed, and the case remanded to the Circuit Court with
directions to dismiss the bill as to them.
MR. JuSTICE

BnAnim-Y, with whom concurred MP- JusTicE

HMmLAw, dissenting,

I dissent from the judgment of the court in this case, and
will very briefly state mty reasons for dissenting.
The St. Louis, Alton and Terre Haute Railroad Company,
the lessor, had full authority to make the lease of its road and
works which is brought in question in the cause. The Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company, the lessee, assumed to
have power to take the lease, and had such power in Illinois by
the effect of the laws of that State, and was supported in its
assumption of power by the implications of several statutes of
Indiana. If these implications vere not sufficiently strong to
amount to a grant of power, still, they were sufficient to show
that the legislature of Indiana understood the power as existing and acquiesced in it. The.other railroad companies, parties
to the suit, who guaranteed the performance of the leaserand
its covenants on the part of the lessee, had the power to do so
by the laws of Illinois, and the engagement of guaranty on

PENN. CO. v.ST. LOUIS, ALTON, &c., RAILROAD. 319
Dissenting Opinion: Bradley, Harlan, JJ.

their part was a -contract entered into by them in furtherance
of their through business to and from St. Louis and the States
west of the Mississippi. The whole arrangement, in fact, was
devised by them for the purpose of facilitating and increasing
their business as integral parts of great trunk lines, which, in
the absence of -inter-State regulations of commerce made' by
Congress, are of the greatest utility to the biisiness of the
country.
To hold that the railroad companies of the country thus situated cannot, without acting ultr vires, make business arrangements beyond the limits of their own tracks in a country situated
and divided up into States as ours is, it seems to me is to take a
very contracted view -of the powers and duties of these public
institutions. According to the doctrine of the court, a New
York -or Pennsylvania company could not even have a ticket
or freight agent in St. Louis for the purpose of soliciting freight
and passengers to be carried on the trunk line of which it forms
a part. They could not hire an office for such an agent, or, if
they did, they could not be held responsible for the rent. This
is carrying the doctrine of ultra vires to what seems to me an
absurd extent. It is following out the English notions on that
subject, which always seemed to me inapplicable to our situation and circumstances, however well suited to that compact and
homogeneous country-homogeneous in government and jurisdiction. All the principal railroads in England extend across the
entire country from London, in different directions, to the sea.
In this country, as Cotigress declines to charter through lines
across the States, thO State governments themselves chrter
loqal roads, limited by the boundary lines of the State. U order to give the country through facilities at all, these State
roads are obliged to unite their lines, and make what is called
a trunk line. The necessities of the country require it. Yet,
according to the logic of the decision in this case, this is all
ultra vire8.

Look at it. One of our great trunk lines, extending from
West to East, is composed (say) of five connected railroads,
forming together a continuous line, working together under a
contract which regulates their mutual rights and obligations

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
.Dissenting Opinion: Bradley, Har]an, 33.

in the management of the business and the distribution of its
joint receipts. All this is uZtra virm and void I One of the
links of the chain is a ferry which, in consideration of extra
accommodations afforded for the business of the line, is guaranteed a certain sumper annum. The guaranty is ultra vire8
and void I
Is this law? It may be English law; but is it American law?
I cannot believe it. We must not shut our eyes to the fact
that new circumstances and conditions, of themselves, require
and produce a ufodification of old rules, or the application of
new ones. ,
This narrow doctrine has already been discarded by the
courts, and by this court. It has become settled law, that a
railroad company at one end of a .trunk line may enter into
contracts for the transportation of passengers and goods to any
part of the line, hundreds of miles beyond its own track; an&
will be held liable for the fulfilment of such contracts. And
yet, according to the doctrine of the opinion in this case, this
is ultra vires.
But this is not all. The contract has been performed on the
part of the lessor company, and the lessee and its guarantors
have enjoyed the benefit of it. With what face can they now
refuse to pay what they agreed to pay? With what face can
they plead incapacity to contract? This is not a suit to compel the specific performance of the contract in future; but to
compel the payment of the money earned by past performance
of the contract. It seems to me that the companies concerned
are estopped to deny their' liability to make this payment. It
is the companies themselves who make the plea, not their stockholders.
In several national bank cases, where the banks have loaned
money on mortgages of land, contrary to the express prohibition ot the act of Congress, and ultra.virmes, we have enforced
the contract, leaving it to the government to call the banks to
account for acting outside of their chartered powers.
Why should not the same rule be applied to railroads, if it
is thought they have exceeded their powers; especially when
no stockholder complains of the company's action, and the ob-

