LORING v. PALMER.

1 321

Statement of Facts.

ject of the suit is, to compel them to pay for a benefit actually
received.
In every aspect in. which the case can be viewed, it seems to
me that the decree of the Circuit Court was not only just and
right, but in accordance with sound principles of American law,
and ought to be affirmed.
I am aifthorized to say that MR. TUSTICE HARLAN agrees
with me in opinion.

LORI T

& Another v. PALMER.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE' EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
Argued March 18, 19, 1886.-ecided May 10, 1886.

A series of letters and agreements passing between the parties interested, all
relating to the same property, which, when read together, show a purpose
in all the parties to create a trust respecting it, and which express and
define that tust an4 the parties and their respective interests, creates a
trust fully expressed and clearly defined within the meaning of the statute
of the State of Michigan which, enacts that "express

trusts" may "be

created" "for th&ebQueficial interest of any person or persons when such
trust is fully expressed and clearly defined on the face of the instrument.
creating it."
When a conveyance of land is made to two or more persons, and the deed is;

silent as to the interest whicli each is to take, the presumption will be that.
the interests are equal. This rule applies to two or more cestuis qus trust,.
beneficiaries under a common deed of trust, and prevails in Michigan.
The statute of Michigan which enacts that "every disposition of Lind" "shall
be directly to the pers6n in whom the right to the possession and the profits.
shall be intended to be vested, and not to any othef to the use of or in trust
for such person ; and*if made to one or more persons, in trust for ot to the.

Ase of another, no estate legal or equitable shall vest in the trmstee," does
not apply to a trust not expressed in the deed, but created by an independent instrument or instruments, executed at a different time, or times, from.
the execution of the deed.

This was a: suit in equity brought by Charles H. Palmer, the
appellee, against Elisha T. Loring and Charles A. Welch, the
voL. cxvwI-21

OCTOBER TERM,

1885.

Statement of Facts.

appellants, to obtain a cQnveyance of one undivided third part
of the N. I of the N. W. ,and of the N. W. j of the S. W. j,
sec. 23, T. 56, N. 1*.33 W., Houghton County, Michigan, containing. in all "120 acres, on the ground that the lands were
bought from Thomas F. Mason for Loring, Palmer, and William B. Frue, and the title taken by Loring in trust for himself
and his associates. The material facts were these:
From the year 1856, and perhaps before, Palmer, Loring,
and Frue had been engaged in the purchase of lands in the
upper peninsula of Michigan, in the formation of mining corporations, and in the purchase and sale of mining stocks. Frue
resided at the time in Houghton County, which was in the
upper peninsula, Palmer at Pontiac, Michigan, and Loring at
Boston, Massachusetts; but Palmer spent much of his time at
the peninsula and in its vicinity.. During all the time the purchases were generally made and the titles, both of lands and
stocks, taken in the name of Loring, as trustee fcr all the parties in interest. Among other lands purchased in this way
were some which were afterwards put into the Ossipee Mining
Company, a mining corporation promoted by these parties,
with a capital stock consisting of 20,000 shares, of which Loring and Frue each owned 2250, and Palmer 2220.
Under these circumstances Palmer and Frue met Thomas F.
Mason, of New York, at Houghton, and negotiated with him
for the purchase of the lands in question. The price was to be
$20,000, payable $5000 downr $7500 in six months, and $7500
in eight months, with interest at the rate of seven per cent. per
annum on the last two sums. No contract was executed at
the time, as Mason preferred a form which he had at home,
and the matter was postponed until he got there, with the
understanding that Loring should execute the formal contract
in New York, and pay the $5000. 'A memorandum of the
transaction was, however, made at the time and assented to
by both parties. This memorandum has been lost, but the testimony showed that it was substantially the same as the contract made with Loring, hereinafter referred to, except that
either "Charles H. Palmer and William B. Frue" were named
as vendees, or "Charles 11. Palmer and his associates."

LORING v. PALMER.
Statement of Facts.

The day that this occurred Palmer wrote -from Michigan to
Loring, in Boston, as follows:
"KEARSARGE MINNG COMAZ,

OALUMr,

MicH., June 18th, 1868.

"E. T. LoRiNG, EsQ.
"Dear Sir: I have this day bought of T. F. Mason the
following lands in the Hecla section 23, namely, the north
half of the northwest quarter, and the northwest quarter of
the southwest quarter, in all 120 acres, for $20,000, $5000
down, $7500 in six months, and $7500 in eight months, with
7 per cent. interest on the last two sums. I had the contract drawn up and was ready to pay him the $5000 down;
but as he had just come from Ontonagon and the boat was
to leave in two hours, he preferred to return to New York
and write such a contract as he had given Hurlburt on his
purchase, and have you execute the contract and pay him the
$5000. He will then send you the contract, and I want you
to see it carried out in all respects. Mason agrees that if you
are away or do not do this, he will send it to me to do, and to
carry out as I have agreed to do. Mr. Mason has given me his
word, in the presence of Frue, that all this shall be done as he
agreed, and that I shall have the land-making his word as
good as his deed. There was not time to do this before Mason
left, and I want you to treat him in this matter without doubting him at all. I will write you again this evening and send
the contract I had drawn up. He has a copy of it, with the
terms, as I have stated. This matter is very important. The
purchase will add to the Ossipee five dollars per share at once
in actual valfie. I do not want anything said of this at all.
You will see by this that we shall get a division with the Hecla
so as to get what will make a mine out of it by itself. We can
make the Calumet vein by this over 3200 feet in length. The
purchase is very important. I send this by the hands of Randall, and will write again to-night by mail. Do not mention
this. If you can, I would go to New York and see Mason and
close this at once. In no case will this be neglected. It is a
fortune to us if well handled. Mason has the contract which

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

I drew up, and will show-it to you. But this will tell you what
is to be done. I give a sketch of the land. When I present
the whole matter you will see how important it is to us. We
can take from Hecla from 1550 to 2305 feet in length, and still
give them 6ut of this purchase double the amount of mining
value that we get from them. The fact is, this ground bought
is worth more to them than the ground next to Ossipee. It is
for this reason that I do not want anything said till we have
fully considered this matter together and see how we shall
open it to Shaw. This is a rough sketch of the land bought.
The yein is nearer to it than I have given the dotted lines, as
if made to divide between them.- Hecla would be free then to
give us 100 acres, 50 of which would carry the vein, and we
should give them 100, all of which would carry the vein. You
will see the importance of this matter, and that we should not
say anything till wt consult. The Hecla is rich and we can
make the Ossipee as rich.
"Truly yours,

CnARL. s H. PALMEk."

The next day he wrote again as follows:
"KEARSAiRsn MIr=G OMPAIWYf

"E. T. LoiNxG, ESQ.,

CALUMET, XMie., June 19th, 1868.

"Dear Sir: I have drawn a map of the land bought of Mason. The Hecla owns all in the section, but the 40 and 80.
You may say that Shaw will not do anything about it. We
can wait as long as he ban, as we have enough to mine till the
]Hecla needs some of this land. The least I would take now
would be the 80 next the Ossipee, through which the lode runs,
and most likely with the right of mine perpendicular to the
vein in the direction of the line A B. I do not think best now
to say anything to Shaw about this. I have given on the other
side the land in the Calumet section 14, bought by Hurlburt.
I could have bought this a year ago last winter for $40,000, including the 120 now bought. If I had done so, we could now
have this land in 23 for nothing, as Shaw will have to buy
Hurlburt out even at $100,000. Stanton, who now has the
Huron, is intending to buy Hurlburt out in 14, and I wish you.
would see him when he returns, and urge him to do it. Hurl-

LORING v. PALMER.
Statement of Facts.

burt bought of Mason some 1200 acres of land in 14, 15, 11, 22,
and 28. If Stanton can get the land in 14, 480 acres, and the
land in 22, on the east half, I should like it, as the'land in 22
is desirable for us. Hurlburt offered the land in 14 to Stanton
for Huron stock. This would be a good thing for Stanton. I
shall write Stanton on this subject. This matter is not to be
talked about. I had a long talk with Stanton, and he is inclined to buy it. He has let Hurlburt have money.
"I send the duplicate of the contract -I gave Mason. Mason
is to write a contract like his contract with Hurlburt, and send
to you. Mason talked this"matter over with Frue and myself,
and says we shall have this land as agreed, and that his word
is as good as his deed. I trust nothing will be left undone to
carry this out, and you had 'better go to New York and see it
done. W
We shall get out of Hecla all I have indicated. The
land we would exchange is more convenient on surface and
underground for them than what they would give us. It will
be under their machinery and improvements. This is a great
thing for Ossipee. You had better telegraph me as soon as
this is done, as I shall be most anxious about it. I wrote you
to-day and sent by Randall, and I write this by mail, I shall
put a note on this for Burr to open, in case you should be absent.
On the $5000 to be paid down, pay interest if Mason wants it.
If Burr reads this, I wish him to see all is done which he can
do. Send the $5000 in case you are not there to execute the
papers, saying that you will execute them aid return them as
soon as you get home, as they can be sent to you. I do not
want anything by which Mason can get out of this. He agreed.
that if there was any hindrance on your part, to send them to.
me to execute.
"The S. P. is doing finely, 30 tons a week. To-day 50 tons
have been shipped, and by Monday morning there will be at
the smelting works 60 tons unsmelted. I think we have a sure
thing in the S. P. We must make a family concern of Ossipee,
and I would not sell any stock in it. We can make it put on
its own importance. This we will do. I see this matter clearly.
I write in haste and do not read'over.
"Truly yours,
C(ARLES H. PALMEI.

326

OCTOBER TERM, 18'85.
Statement of Facts.

"Be particular to say nothing about Stanton's wishes. We
need not buy any Hecla unless upon good .time and satisfactory
prices. We shall have a Hecla of our own. I think the S. P.
will improve upon what she is now doing. The 40. acres is less
than 350 feet from line of vein. In case you want us to raise
$5000 .here, write us or telegraph, and we will use it for the
mine."
Enclosed in this was a copy of the memorandum made whil6
-Mason was in Michigan. After the receipt of these letters
Loring wrote and perhaps telegraphed to Palmer approving
the purchase.
On the 25th of June Loring also wrote W. Hart Smith, of
New York, as follows:
"OFFICE OF THE SouTnI PEW.ABiC COPPER Comap.NY,

31 Kilby Street
"W.

HART

BosToN, June 25, 1868.
SmTr, Esq., Treas8., .lew Yo'k.

"Dear Sir: I received letter this morning from Mr. Palmer,
who is very desirous I should see Mr. Mason before leaving for
the Lake, which I intended doing on Saturday, therefore telegraphed you this morning, requesting to be advised as soon as
Mr. Mason returned, which I will thank you to do by telegraph
at the earliest date, as this may enable me to leave here on
Saturday evening's boat and see Mr. Mason on Monday morning, if not before.
"Truly yours,

E. T. LoRnG."

Smith was the treasurer of the Quincy Mining Company, of,
which Mason was president. On the next day, June 26, Mason, in New York, wrote T. Henry' Perkins, in Boston, as
follows:
HENRY PERKINs, Esq.
"Dear Sir: I send herewith contract for sale of 120 acres of'
land, which I wish you to [-]
Mr. Loring, and have him
,execute, either for himself or Mr. Palmer, (I made the trade

"T.

LORING v. PALMER.
Statement of Facts.

with Palmer,) fill in the name of whichever Mr. L. desires,
and deliver over to :Mr. Loring upon his paying you $5000.
"If Mr. Loring is not prepared to comply, you will not press
the matter, but return the papers, I was tempted to sell by
the offer, but perhaps I made a mistake; probably I might obtain more from the Hecla Company by holding long enough.
"Mr. Palmer requested the transaction kept private for the
present, so you will please say nothing about it.
-*

*X

*

"Truly yours,

*X

*X

*

Tros. F. IMsow."

Between the date of this letter and June 29, Perkins flled
the blanks in the contract with the name of Elisha T. Loring,
trustee, and Loring signed itas trustee.- He also made the
down payment of $5000, which was remitted by Perkins to
Mason, so that he got it in New York on the 29th, and on the
same day Palmer, in Michigan, received from Loring, -n Boston, a telegram dated the 27th, stating that the contract had
been closed and that he would start for Lake Superior the same
day.
The following is a copy of the contract which was thus executed:
"This agreement made the eighteenth (18) day of June, one
thousand eight hundred and sixty-eight, between Thomas F.
Mason, of the city, county and State of New York, of the first
part, and Elisha T. Loring, trustee, of the city of Boston,
county of Suffolk, State of Massachusetts:
"Witnesseth, that said party of the first part, in consideration of the sum of twenty thousand dollars to be paid as hereinafter mentioned, hereby agrees to sell unto the said party of
the second part all the following described premises, to wit:
situated in the county of Houghton and State of Michigan, the
north half of the northwest quarter, and the northwest quarter
of the southwest quarter of section twenty-three, in township
fifty-six, north of range thirty-three west; which said premises
the said party of the second part hereby agree to purchase and

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

pay for in manner following, to wit: the sum of five thousand
dollars on the execution and delivery of this instrument, the
sum of seventy-five hundred dollars at the expiration of six
months from the date thereof, and the sum of seventy-five hundred dollars to be paid eight months after the date thereof,
with interest on the sum of fifteen thousand dollars, at and
after the rate of seven per cent. per annum, from the date of
this instrument till the same shall be paid.
."It is further agreed, between the parties to this instrument,
that said Mason, the party of the first part, will receive the
said sum of fifteen thousand dollars, or any part thereof, at any
tilhe prior to the dates of payment hereinbefore mentioned, and
that, upon the payment of the entire sum of fifteen thousand
dollars and interest, the party of the first part shall make, execute, and deliver to the party of the second part, or his assigns,
a proper deed for the conveying and assuring to him the feesimple of said premises free from all encumbrances, which
deed shall contain a general warranty and the usual full covenants.
"It is further agreed, that said party of the second parb shall
be entitled to immediate possession of said lands and premises
herein described, and shall pay all taxes or assessments of every
name and nature assessed and imposed on said lands and premises after this date.
"It is further hereby expressly understood and agreed, that
the said terms of payment mentioned in this contract are hereby made material, and that the failure to pay any of said instalments or interest on the days named for the payment thereof, shall render this contract absolutely null and void, and that
any instalment paid before such failure shall, by such failure,
be forfeited, and that, whatever amount may be paid, any failure of payment of any of said instalments and interest, as the
same shall fall due and become payable, shall make this contract absolutely void, and all rights, interests, or titles under
this contract shall be forfeited, and all and every equity and
right in the said party of the second part, his heirs or assigns,
shall thereby determine and become void. The clause in this
contract mentioned, relative to the execution of a deed of the

LORING v. PALMER.
Statement of Facts.

said party of the second part, being, by the agreement' of the
parties hereto, expressly made subject to the agreement of forfeiture in case of any failure of payment of said instalments
and interest, as the same shall fall due and become payable.
"It is further understood and agreed, that each and every
of the stipulations hereinbefore in this contract mentioned shall
apply to and bind the heirs, executors, administrators, or assigns of the respective parties.
"In witness whereof, the parties to these presents have hereunto set their hands and seals the day and year first above
written.
"Tnos. F. MAsox.
"E. T. lorNG, Thuatee.

"Sealed and delivered in presence of"WM.

HART SmTE,

as to signature of T. F. Mason.

"H. F. ATWOOD, as to signature of E. T. Loring,.Trustee."
On the 22d of June Palmer telegraphed from Michigan to
Loring that he had paid $5000 for him, Loring, there, and asking that he pay the same amount to Mason and execute the
contract. This was Frue's money, and it was afterwards so
treated by all the parties. The remainder of the purchase
money was paid by Loring when it became due, and as soon as
the payments were made in fall Mason conveyed the property
as called for by the contract.
No moneys were paid by Palmer to Loring with particular
instructions to use them in paying or the land, but Loring
had for some years been acting as the financial agent of Palmer
in Boston, and the accounts as stated by the master showed
quite a considerable balance of interest in favor of Palmer at
the end of the years 1867 and 1868, respectively. At first the
credits to Palmer were principally from the sales of stocks,
but during the years 1867 and 1868 they were mostly the proceeds of the discounts of Palmer's notes, endorsed by Loring.
In the latter part of the year 1868 the credit of both the
parties seems to have been somewhat impaired, and there was
considerable difficulty in raising money to meet maturing obligations. The first instalment on the contract with Mason
fell due December 18, 1868, and there were notes of Palmer

'330

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

which had been discounted maturing about the same time to
a considerable amount. To raise the means to meet these
maturing obligations Palmer, at the request of Loring, sold
stocks of his own, from which $15,000 in money was realized.
The sale was negotiated before the instalment on the contract
fell due, but the price was not paid until December 21, $5000, and
Eecember 2S, $10,000. All this money was paid over promptly
•:o Loring for" Palmer's credit, and the accounts stated by the
riaster show that on the 31st of December there was a balance
due from Lbring 7 Palmer of $17,059.25, and that the're was
a balance of interest account in Palmer's favor for the year
of $775.55. In this statement of the account no charge is
,made against Palmer for any share of the purchase money
under the Mason contract. On the 18th of February, 1869,
when the last instalment to Mason fell due, the accqunts show
a balance in .favor of Palmer of sometlia6 more thin $10,000.
Between that time and March 201h this atpunt was substantially all Ased in payment of Palmer's maturing notes, but on the
last date Palmer sold other stocks, from which $S000 in money
was realized, and put to his credit. After that, in August,
other notes were paid, and at the end of the year there was a
balance against Palmer of $1065.1S, though the interest account for the year showed a balance in his favor of $302.35.
Here the transactions between the parties seem to have
stopped, but on the 15th of March, 1872, brinc S
of Palmer which he still held in his hands, from which $12,975
were realized, and afterwards during the year other sales were
made, so that on the 31st of December, 1872, the accounts
showed a balance in favor of Palmer amounting to $15,964.45,
which included a balance of interest account in his favor since
the last statement of $637.96.
In the, statement of the accounts to this time, for some
reason, no :charge was made against Palmer for certain stocks
purchased in 1867, the price of which was $6275, nor for any
part of the Mason purchase, bt the amount otherwise to his
credit with' Loring was sufficient to pay these items in full,
principal and interest.. 6nd still leave a balance due Palmer at
the date of the 'decree amounting to $527.52.

LORING v. PALMER.
Statement of Facts.

On the 16th of Mareh,.°1869, Loring, at the request of Palmer,
endorsed on a copy of the contract with Mason a declaration

as follows:
"BosToN, ]tfar 16, 1869.
"Whereas Thomas F. Mason has deeded to E. T. Loring, in
trust, the lands described in the within document, and received
therefor in payment the sum mentioned therein, with the
interest: Therefore be it known, for value rec'd, I hereby acknowledge that 0. H. Palmer, or Win. B. Frue, one or either
of them, jointly or separately, are the owners of the undivided
one fourth part of said lands, and I hereby obligate myself,
heirs, and executors to account to said Palmer, or his assigns,
for one fourth part rec'd for the lands in question whenever a
sale shall be made of the same.
"Esia
T. LonG.
"Witness: J&3ms MOORE."
This represented the interest paid for with Frue's $5000, and
Palmer obtained it at Frue's request, so that he, Frue, might
have something to show for his interest in the land. Afterwards, on the 22d of, May, 1869, Loring conveyed to Frue an
undivided one fourth of the property, and he claims no further
interest.
On the 22d of February, 1869, Loring wrote Palmer as follows:
"I therefore deem it my'duty, and as an act of courtesy
towardb you, to notify you that whatever additional proportion you wish to secure for yourself in section 23, it will be
necessary for you to remit the amount of the cest of such additional portion as you desire prior to the 20th of March,
otherwise I shall consider as mine and retain the three fourths
interest in section 23 which I have paid for."
In October, 1871, Loring sued Palmer for a balance claimed
to be his due on general account, and the bill pf particulars
showed the amount demanded to be large. Nothing was
claimed for payments on account of the Mason purchase.
This suit was pending until June, 1874, when it was discontinued, and on the first of July, 1875, Loring conveyed the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Appellants.

land to Welch in trust for him, Loring, and his children. This
suit was begun December 20, 1875. The Circuit Court tendered a decree in favor of Palmer, and from that decree this
appeal was taken.
1 -Walk-erwas with him) for
7io ~e (ilt.
.Xr. Josep appellants.
I. The evidence was not sufficient to establish, under the
statutes of Michigan, an express trust in Loring as to the lands
in question, for the benefit of the complainant, to the extent
of an undivided third, or any other portion of the property.
Uses and Trusts, except as authorized by the statute, are abolished, and every estate and interest in lands is deemed a legal
estate except as authorized. 2 Howell's Annotated Statutes,
§ 5563. The provisions of § 5573, Howell's Stat., areas follows:
"§ 5573. Express trusts may be created for any or either of
the following purposes:
"1. To sell land for the benefit of creditors.
"2. To sell, mortgage or lease lands, for the benefit of legatees, or for the purpose of satisfying any charge thereon.
"3. To receive the rents and profits of lands, and apply
them to the use of any person, during the life of such person,
or for any shorter term, subject to the rules prescribed in the
last preceding chapter.
"4. To receive the rents and profits of lands, and to accumulate the same for the benefit of any married woman, or for
either of the purposes and within the limits prescribed in the
preceding chapter.
" 5. For the beneficial interest of any person or persons,
4hen such trust is fully expressed and clearly defined upon
the face of the instrument creating it, subject to the linifitations as to time prescribed in this title."
The 5th provision is peculiar to the statutes of -Michigan and
Wisconsin. 'By it the sufficiency of the proof of the creation
of the supposed trust must be measured.
The Michigan Statute of Frauds, which will be found in
6179, is substantially the same as that which pre-.
2 Howell,
vails in the other States.

LORING v. PALMER.
Argument 'or Appellants.

It must be borne in mind that,we are dealing with an exprevo
trust created at the time of the purchase; which, of course,
excludes the idea of an implied trust. ffereer v. Stark, Sm.
& Marsh. Oh. 479; .Dunphy v. Ryan, 116 UT.S. 491; Simith v.
Burnham, 3 Sumner, 435, 460. And see K-ellum v. Smith, 33
Penn. St. 158; Steere v. Steere 5 Johns. Ch. 1; Olcott v. Bynurn, 17 Wall. 44. And, as Palmer claims under the contract,
he cannot impeach it. Jacobs v. 2fille,, 50 Mich. 119, 126.
It is well settled that an express trust m,1t appear with
absolute certainty as to nature and terms before a court can
undertake to execute it. Steere v. Steere, above cited; Dillaye v. Greenough, 45 N. Y. 438; Slocum v. .Afarshall, 2 Wash.
0. C. 397; Sm th v. 3fatthews, 3 De G. F. & J. 139; Cookv.
Barr,44 N. Y. 156; Parkhurst v. 'an Cortland, 1 Johns.
Ch. 273.
Assuming that the term "instrument" required by the Statute of Frauds to manifest or prove a trust, and by the Statute
of Uses and Trusts to' create it, may be broadly construed so
as to include any paper writing, signed or accepted by the parties-letters, entries or written statements of any kind-the
rule still remains an absolute one, from which there is no
exception, that by those writings, whether one or many, the
nature and terns of the trust must be clearly and explicitly
expressed, and that it must by the writings clearly and unmistakably appear not only that there is a trust intended, but.
in whose behalf, for what purpose, and to what extent, as to
the proportions of property covered by it. And it must be so
clearly expressed that no other intention, no other party, no
other terms, can, consistently with the language used, have
been intended. To this general rule, so clearly indicated by
the authorities, is added the special provision of the Michigan
statutes, that the trust in a particular instance must be "fully
s'J and clearly deftned upon the face of the instrument
L:,'C
creating it."
Clearly this requires something more than the Statute of
F rauds, othfirwise there was no necessity for enacting it. It
means that nothing was to be left to implication; that the
trust n ust be expressed and defined with absolute clearness on

331

OCTOBER TERM, 188b.
Argument for Appellants.

the face of the instrument. In the present alleged trust: (1) It
is not clear who were the cestuis que trust. Loring the trustee was certainly'one of them. (2) In order to establish it, it
is necessary to resort to subsequent acts and conversations, and
they show that (ifanything) the purchase was made for the
Ossipee Mining Company, not for Palmer and other stockholders. (3) It is clear that in any event participation in
the trust was dependent upon payment of a specific sum
for a distinct interest.
If there may fairly be a doubt whether the trust (if any)
was created for the benefit of the Ossipee Company or of individual stockholders of that company, then the nature of the
trust is not fully expressed and clearly defined on the. face of
the paper. The rule requiring it to be so expressed is absolute,
and in no event can resort be had to parol testimony. Cook v.
Barr, 44 N. Y. 156; Shafter v. Huntington, 53 Mich. 310.
The conduct of the parties cannot be referred to. Railroad
Co. v. Durant,95 IT. S. 576 is no authority for such a reference. The parties are bound by the face of the papers. Parol
evidence is not admissible to vary or contradict their legal
effect. Jacobs v. 7-Mller, above cited. See also Ruth v. Oberbrtnner, 40 Wis. 238; AShafter v. Huntington, above cited;
Hurst v. VEc3Yei7,, 1 Wash. C. C. 70 ; Sturtevant v. Sturtevant,
20 N. Y. 39; Rasdallv. Basdall, 9 Wis. 379; 1 Perry on Trusts,

85.
II. If the trust alleged and found by the court below could
be read as a trust fully expressed and clearly defined upon the
face of the papers creating it, so as otherwise to satisfy the requirements of the fifth subdivision of section 5573 of the Statute of Uses and Trusts of Michigan, still, it would be a naked,
passive trust, and, as such, unauth6rized under the provisions
of that.statute. Under such'a trust no function or title would
rest in the. trustee; but the statute would have executed the
trust immedi'itely in the cestui quo trust. So that, on the con*Veyance being made to Loring as trustee, the statute passed the
legal title.immediately to the complainant, and left nothing
for this court, as a Court of Equity, to do, and, ]east of all, the
-power or liberty to adjudge Loring tc be a trustee for Palmer,

LORING v. PALMER.
Argument for Appellants.

or to fasten, by its decree, the trust upon the land ; for the statute has in express terms prohibited it. Riehl v. Bingenheimor,
28 Wis. 84. No passive trust is possible under the statutes of
Michigan (nor of Wisconsin, which are similar). Bu-pdeno v.
Arnperse, 14 Mich. 91 ; Ready v Kearey, 14 Mich. 215; Steevens v. Eares, 25 Mich. 40, 44; Thompson v. Waters, 25 Mich.
214; R0eh v. Bingenewimer, above cited; WTdte v. .Fitzgerald,
19 Wis. 480. The statutes of Michigan on this point are:
"§ 5563. Uses and Trusts, except as authorized and modified
in this chapter, are abolished, and every estate and interest in
lands shall be deemed a legal right, cognizable as such in the
courts of law, except when otherwise provided in this title."
"§ 5564.* Every estate which is now held as in use, executed
under the laws of this State as they formerly existed, is confirmed as a legal estate."
"§ 5565. Every person who, by virtue of any grant, assignment or devise, now is or hereafter shall be entitled to the'act
ual possession of lands and the receipt of the rents and profits
thereof, in law or in equity, shall be deemed to have a legal
estate therein, of th*e same quality and duration and subject to
the same conditions as is benefiial interest."
"§ 5567. Every disposition of lands, whether by deed or devise, hereafter made, except as otherwise provided in this chapter, shall be directly to the person in whom the right to the
possession and profit shall be intended to be vested, and not to
any other, to the use of or in trust for such person; and if
made to one or more persons, in trust for or to the use of
another, no estate or interest, legal or equitable, shall vest in
the trustee."
When afterwards section 5573 provided for the creation of
express trusts to be created for any or either of the purposes
specified in 'its five subdivisions, it certainly was not intended
thereby, as to either of them, to sanction the creation of a,
merely passive trust, in which land should be conveyed to a
trustee simply to hold in trust for a cestui qupe trust indefinitely.
without any limit of time. For this would be absolutely to
nullify sections 5563, 5565 and 5567, and defeat the whole
policy of the statute, which was to abolish mere formal trusts,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Appellants.

which separate the legal and equitable estate for no purpose
that the law ought to sanction, by converting them into legal
estates. N. Y. Revisers' Notes, 5 Edmunds, N. Y. Stat. at Large,
p. 320. See also Perry on Trusts, § 298 ; Goodrich v. .3fllwaukee, 24 Wis. 422; Ruth v. Oberbrunner, cited above; .Dodge v.
Tilliain., 46 Wis. 70, 100; Smith v. Ford,48 Wis. 115.
Even where a trust is created, in express terms, simply "to
convey" to appointees or beneficiaries, it is held to be a passive
trust, and the statute transfers the legal title immediately, no
conveyance from the so-called trustee being either necessary or
proper. Matter of Vinter, 24 N. Y. 555, 567; Clark v. .Davenport, 1 Bosworth, 95, 114-115.
The bill makes no case for equitable relief. It 'asks for an
injunction, but there was nothing to enjoin. It asks for no accounting. It only asks for a conveyance of an interest in land
to which it alleged the complainant is entitled. The answer
sets up no lien. It only demands the dismissal of the bill.
When the court on the final hearing found that there was no
lien, it should have dismissed the bill. H7ipp v. Babin,19 How.
271, 278.; Zillian v. Ebbinghaus, 110 U. S.568, 573; Sullivan
v. _Ratilroad Co., 94 U. S.806, S11; Root v. Railway Co., 105 U.
S. 189, 212-215; .Fussellv. Gregg, 113 UT. S. 550, 555. It is
well settled in Michigan that the action of ejectment is the
only action for the determination of questions of legal title to
land. The controversy cannot be carried into a court of equity
under any circumstances. .Michigan Cent. Raiiroad Co. v. .Mc.A7aughton, 45 _lich. 87; R'inney v. HUarrett,4.6 Mlich. 87; Cleland v. Taylor, 3 Mich. 201-207; ZTqfnan v. Beard, 22 Mich.
52, 62, 67; Hemingway v. Griswold, 22 Mich. 77; Shaw v.
Chambers, 48 Mich. 355, 358, 360. In this suit the court is
administering the laws of that State. Brine v. Ihs. Co., 96
U. S.627; Bendey v. Townsend, 109 U. S.665.
II. Neither does the bill claim, nor the evidence establish,
any trust in Loring by implication of law. No such trust is.
set up in the bill, or was set up in argument below. No resulting trust is possible under the statutes of Mfichigan. Lloyd
v. Spillet, 2 Atk. 148,150; )inion of Lord llardwicke; Brown
v. Bronson, 35 Mich. 415. Palmer could not call upon Loring

LORING v. PALMER.
Argument for Appellants.

to convey to him after having directed Mason to convex- to
Loring. Bumpu8 v. B uapue, 53 Mich. 346 ; Week v. Bos.
worth, 61 Wis. 78; Stu'tevant v. Sturtevant, above cited; ffant
v. 12oberts, 40 Maine, 187.
It has often been held that when the legal title to an estate
is procured through the means of an actual or constructive
fraud, equity will give relief to the party defrauded by giving
the estate the direction which it would have taken had the
fraud not been committed. So it has been held that if a grantee
or devisee obtain a deed or devise by means of promises made
to the grantor or devisor, to hold the land for another, this is
sufficient to raise a trust in favor of the latter, on the ground
of fraud, and that this may be proved by parol. Also, that
where a party obtains the conveyance of property by abuse of
confidence reposed in him, he is converted into a trustee ex
inali'io. Also, that a purchase in his own name, contrary to
the intent of his principal, by an agent undertaking to purchase
for his principal, converts the agent into a trust ex maleftcio.
Also, that where a person, professing to be acting on behalf of
a mortgagor or execution debtor, undertakes to purchase in the
property at execution or foreclosure sale for the benefit of the
debtor, and having thereby led the latter into relaxing his own
exertions, and by this means procuring the title at less than its
value, afterwards refuses to carry out his agreement, he shall
be held in equity to be a trustee for the debtor. But this case
has no relation to any of the cases thus referred to. It has no
element in common with them. It lacks the vital element that
in all those cases has been held to serve as the foundation for
a trust. See Ryqab v. Dox, 34 N. Y. 307; 1-Huxley v. Rice, 40
Mich. 73; ,S after v. Hi-ntington, above cited; .- ellum v.
Smith, 33 Penn. St. 158; Fiekeet v. .Durham,109 Mass. 419;
Plilipsv. Hull, 101 Penn. St. 567; Le-vy v. Bi-u.h, 45 N. Y.
589; fTfeeler v. Reynolds, 06 N. Y. 227; WVood v. Rabe, 96
N. Y. 426. A fraud to create a trust in equity, must be something more than the mere breach of a parol trust. R-asdall v.
Rasdall, above cited. See also, Coble v. Cook, 49 M[ich. 11;
and Smith v. Bu;rnham and Steere v. Stre, cited above. It
is not sufficient to show by parol that one bought with his own
VOL. cxvm-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Appellants.

money for the use of another, for that would be to overturn
-the Statute of Frauds. Blair v. Bass, 4 Blackford, 539, 545;
Botsford v. Burr, 2 Johns. Ch. 405.
See also, Hunt v. Roberts, above cited; Fikett v. Durham,
above cited; Parsons v. Phelan, 134 Mass. 109; Purcell v.
.Afiner, 4 Wall. 513; .Dunp y v. Ryan, above cited; Fischli v.
Dumarschey, 3 A. K. I irsh (Ky.), 24; Bandall v. Howard,
2 Black, 585, 589; .3foote v. Scriven, 33 Mich. 500, 504; Taybyr v. Boardman, 24 Mich. 287; Allen v. Withrow, 110 U. S.
119, 139.
IV. In view of the long continued acquiescence'of the complainant in Loring's disavowal of all interest on cownplainant's
part in the lands in controversy, and of complainant's gross
and unexcused laches in the presentation of his claim, the court,
as a court of equity, should have dismissed the bill.
The character of the property, being mining and speculative,
and the conduct of the parties in dealing with it, may be properly looked at in considering the doctrine of acquiescence and
laches. If on receipt of the letter of February 22, Palmer had
replied' that he acquiesced in the notice, the answer would have
terminated his interest in the land. There is nothing in the
nature, even of an express trust, where the title stands upon a
deed which does not disclose the interest of the cetus que truest,
to prevent a surrender of his interest by such a step. Seymoar
v. Freer, 8 Wail. 202. We submit that the fact of Palmer's
acquiescence in Loring's disclaimer of all interest on his part is
as clearly established as if Palmer had in so many words written to that effect in reply. On the question of acquiescence and
laches we cite Rtssell v. .filler, 26 Mich. 1; C0,gg v. Edmonds,
"8 DeG. M. & G. 787; MTune v. Beale, 17 Wall. 336; Seymour v. Freer,above cited; N'Tettles v. .Aettles, 67 Ala. 599, cited
with approval in Phillippiv. Phillipe,115 U. S. 151; Sid/livan v. Portland & Kennebec Railroad Co., 941 U. S. 806;
Brown v. Buena Vista County, 95 U. S. 157; Godden v. .immell, 99 U. S. 201; Germ. Am. Seminary v. Kiefer, 43 Mich.
105; ilayward v. HVatimal Bank, 96 U. S. 611; Grymes v.
Saunders, 93 U. S. 55 ; Emvan's Appeal, 81 Penn. St. 278 ; Twin
Zick Oil Co. v. larbury, 91 U. S. 58 1; Rule v. Jewel, IS Oh.

LORING v. PALMER.
Opinion of the Court

Div. 660; Alen v. Allen, 47 Mich. 74; Prattv. Cal. iining
Co., 9 Sawyer, 354; Barlow v. Lake Superior Iron Co., 41
Mich. 583; haZf v. Jenney, 54 Mich. 511. Laches need not
be pleaded. Sullivan v. Portland& -ennebec Railroad Co.,
94 U. S. 806; .Arettlee v. -Nettles, 67TAla. 599.
Xr. Aeley Pond and -Mr.George F. Edmunds (.Mr. goyt
Pot was with them on the brief) for appellee.
MR.: CuEF JUSTICE WAITE after stating the case as above reported, delivered the opinion of-the court.
The question which meets us at the outset is whether the
trust' in favor of Palmer, on which the case depends, las been
sufficiently established. A statute of Michigan provides th.t
"express trusts may be created for any or either of the following purposes:

"5. For the beneficial interest of any person or persons,
when such trust is fully expressed and clearly defined upon the
face of the instrument creating it, subject to the limitations as
to time prescribed in this title." 2 Howell's Ann. Stat. § 5573,
p. 1448.
The trust relied on is an express trust, and it relates to lands
in Michigan. Consequently it must be established according
to this statute, which it is contended requires proof of the creation of the trust l)y a written instrument that shall clearly express and fully define on its face the rights of the respective
partic$ thereto. It is not enough, as is claimed, to show the
existence of the trust by writing. The proof must be that it
was originally created by a written instrument sufficient in
form. In the view we take of the case it is unnecessary to
inquire whether this is the true rule or not, for, in our opinion,
the evidence is sufficient to meet all these requirements.
We do not understand it to be denied that the letters of
Pafliner to Loring uhder date of June 18 and June 19; the niemorandum of the agreement made in Michigan at the-time of the
negdtiations by Palmer and Frue with Mason for the purchase.
and which was sent by Palmer to Loring in the letter of June

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
OpinioM of the Court.

19 ; the telegram and letter from Loring to Palmer before the
contract between Mason and Loring, trustee, was executed;
the letter from Loring to Smith, under date of June 25; the
letter from Mason to Perkins under date of June 26 ; and the
contract between Mason and Loring, may all be read together
as one instrument for the purpose of establishing the trust. If,
upon.the face of these writings thus read and construed together in the light of the circumstances which surrounded the
parties at the time, a trust is fully expressed and clearly defined for the beneficial ititerest of .Palmer, then his case has
been made out so far as the creation of the trust is concerned.
We begin, then, with the fact that Loring, Palmer, and
Frue had been operating together for some years in buying
mining lands, forming mining corporations, and selling mining
stocks. Very generally the titles, both of lands and stocks,
had been, during all the time, taken and held in the name Qf
Loring, as trustee for all concerned. Each party paid for his
own share of the purchases, but Loring was the principal capitalist, and both Palmer and Frue relied on' him to raise money
for them to meet their obligations when necessary. This particular purchase was set on foot by Palmer and Frue, and it
was a kind of property in which the parties had been in the
habit of dealing. It adjoined or was near to other property in
which they were all largely interested at the time, and which
they were jointly engaged in advancing in value. The writings are to be read and construed in the light of these facts.
The contract of purchase, as reduced to writing and finally
executed, is in the name of Loring, trustee. This on its face
implies that it was made by him for the beneficial interest of
others besides himself, in whole or in part. Standing alone, it
does not "clearly define" the trust which it apparently created
but, taken in connection with the corresp9ndence which preceded it, and out of which it confessedly arose, no room is left
for doubt that it was made for the benefit of the three persons
who had been so long operating together in that kind of property. Palmer, in his letters acquainting Loring with what he
and Frue had done in Michigan towards the purchase, says, "it
is a fortune tQ us if well handled;" "when I present the whole

LORING -o. PALMER.
Opinion of the Court.

matter you will see how important it is to us. We can take
from Hecla from 1550 to 2305. feet in length, and still give
them out of this purchase double the amount of mining value
that we get from them. The fact is, this ground boughG is
worth more to them than the ground next to Ossipee. It is
for this reason that I do not want anything said till we have
fully considered this matter together, and see how we shall
open it to Shaw.
Hecla would be free then to give us
100 acres, 50 of which would carry the vein, and we should give
them 100, all of which would carry the vein. You will see the
importance of this matter, and that we should not say anything
until we consult. The Hecla is rich, and we can make the Ossipee as rich." And again, "we shall get out of Hecla all I
have indicated. The land we would exchange is more convenient on surface and underground for them than what they
would give us. It ivill be under their machinery and improvements. This is a great thing for Ossipee."
It is said, however, that Frue does not appear to have been
included as one of the beneficiaries. Ile was one of those who
had been operating together, and Palmer, in his letter, speaks
of him as having been present when the negotiations were had
with Mason in ]ichigan. The language on this subject, in the
letter of June 19, is: "Mason talked this matter over with Frue
and myself, and says we shall have this land as agreed, and that
his word is as good as his deed;" and, besides, in the memorandum of the agreement, made at the time of the negotiation,
either Palmer and Frue were named as vendees, or Charles I.
Palmev and his associates, which, under the circumstances,
would imply the same thing.
Again, it is said that the individual interests of the respective
beneficiaries are not stated, and, therefore, that the trust is not
sufficiently defined to meet the requirements of the statute;
but the rule in Michigan, as well as in all other States where
the principles of the common law prevail, is that where a conveyance of lands is made to two or more persons, and the
instrument is silent as to the interest which each is to take, the
presumption will be that their interests are equal. campau Y.
C4jupau, 44 Mich. 31, 34; Eber. v. JFixher', 44 Mich. 551, 553,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

Under
this rule the purchase by Loring, as trustee, was for the
equal benefit
of the three parties in interest, and the trust,
therefore, enured in that way. Without doubt it was expected
that each of the parties would pay for his own interest, and
that as between themselves neither should be bound for the
other; but that is a matter the effect of which need not now
be considered, as Palmer has paid for his share in full. There
is nothing whatever on the face of the papers to indicate that
at the time the contract was made and the trust created it was
expected that one should have a greater interest in the purchase than another.
Finally, it is claimed the letters show that the purchase was
made for the Ossipee Company, and not for Loring, Palmer,
and Frue individually. *Wecannot so read what was written.,
The Ossipee Company had been promoted by these parties.
They had bought the land which was made the basis, in whole
or in part, of its organization. They were at the time of the
purchase from Mason the three largest stockholders. The
Ossipee was a corporation, and it nowhere appears that these
parties, or either of them, had ever .been authorized to make
the purchase on its account. There is no doubt that all the
parties expected to handle the property with a view to an
enhancement of the value of. Ossipee stock, but there is nothing whatever to indicate that the corporation was to be.in any
way directly interested in the purchase. The land might have
been, and undoubtedly was, necessary to the complete success
of the company, but it was nevertheless when bought the
property of the purchasers, who occupied no such trust relations to the company as to make their purchase enure directly
to its benefit; and, besides, the company is not now seeking to
charge them as trustees. Palmer does, indeed, say in his letter
to Loring, "the purchase will add to the Ossipee $5 per share
at once in actual value," and "we must make a family concern
of Ossipee, and I would not sell any stock in it; we can make
it put on its own importance; this we will do; I see this
matter clearly;" and "we shall have a Eecla of our own;"
but this does not fnake Ossipee the purchaser, or the direct
beneficiary under the trust as thus created and defined. The

LORING v. PALMER.
Opinion of the Court.

expectation of an indirect benefit to their investments in Ossipee was undoubtedly great, but nothing occurred to bind the
company to the purchasers or the purchasers to the company.
We conclude, therefore, that the original trust in favor of
Palmer for a one-third interest in the property has been suffi•ciently established.
It is contended, however, that if the conveyance was made
to Loring as trustee for himself and Palmer and Frue, then,
under the statutes of Michiguan, the legal title vested at once in
the beneficiaries, and the remedy of Palmer is at law, and not
in equity, because he holds the legal title to his share and not
an equitable title merely. The statute referred to is as follows:
"1§ 5567. Sec. 5. Every disposition of lands, whether by deed'
or devise, hereafter made, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter, shall be directly to the person in whom the right to
the possession and the profits shall be intended to be vested,
and not to any other, to the use of, or in trust for, such person;
and if made to one or more persons, in trust for, or to the use
of another, no estate or interest, legal or equitable, shall vest
in the trustee." 2 Howell's Ann. Stat. 1446.
This, it has been held, abolishes all express passive trusts in
Michigan, but allows express active trusts when created in accordance with § 5573, cited above. Burdino v. Ampere, 14
Mich, 91, 96 ; Ready v. KEearmley, 14 iMich. 215, 227; Steeven8 v.
Earles, 25 Mich. 40, 44; f7ompon v. Waterg, 25 Mich. 214,
234; Goodrich v. Milwaukee, 24 Wis. 422, 430. lBut here the
conveyance under which Loring took the title that he has
since conveyed to Welch did not create the trust in favor of
Palmer. That was done by the original coitract of purchase
from Mason, read in connection with the contemporaneous correspondence between the parties, and the object of this suit is
to charge Loring as trustee under that contract, and to compel
him and his grantee to perform the trust which was then created. There is nothing on the face of the deed to Loring to
show that Palmer is the person for whom Loring took title in
trust. The legal title did not, therefore, vest in him by that
conveyance. All he has is the equitable title which he acquired
under the contract of purchase, and his purpose now is to com-

OCTOBER TERM,. 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

pel Loring to convey to him the legal title to his share which
passed from Mason when the contract was performed and the
deed executed to him in accordance with its provisions. This.
is relief which a Court of Chancery alone can afford. So far
as this record shows, Mason knew nothing of the particulars of
the aringement between Loring, Palmer, and Frue as to their
respective interests. It is true the contract was made with
Loring as trustee, but that is all: The terms of his holding are
nowhere explained, and Mason performed his duty towards all
who were interested, when he conveyed to Loring in accordance with the terms of the contract. Tihe deed was intended to
and did vest in Loring the legal title in trust for whomsoever
it might concern. This suit is prosecutedtb establish the fact
that Palmer was one of the persons concerned and to charge
Loring accordingly.
The trust having thus been establislired and the jurisdiction
of a court of equity over the suliject-iaatter of thL suit sustained,
it remains only to consider whether the trust, which-was originally created, has been abrogated by abandonment or laches.
The last payment to M'ason was made February 18, 1869, and
this suit was not brought until December 20, 1875.
This branch of the case is pre~ented to us very differently
from what it was to the court below when the interlocutory
decree was rendered, and the cause referred to a master to
ascertain how much was due from Palmer to Loring upon the..
purchase money paid to Mason. It was then supposed that
Palmer lad no money in the hands of Loring which could be
used to pay on the land when the deferred instalments fell due.
The court then found that no part of the proceeds of the smelting stock or the Hecla stock was applied to such payment, and
that all went into Palmer's general account with his consent.
It now appears that when each of the instalmeats was paid, or
very soon thereafter, Palmer had, or ought to have had, a balance to his credit much more than sufficient to meet his share
of what. was due.. The testimony shows -ery clearly that
neither of the parties had a correct understanding of the state
of their accounts with each other at the time. Palmer kept no
books of his own, and those of Loring were not at all reliable.

LORING v. PALMER.
Opinion of the Court.

Loring always claimed that Palmer was largely in his debt, and
Palmer does not seem to have had then any means of showing the
contrary. His own credit was exhausted, and Loring had possession of all his securities. Consequently, when Loring called
on him to pay by the 20th of March, he did not abandon his
claim, but he sold his Hecla stock and paid the proceeds to his
general credit and waited for time to show whether this was
enough to preserve his interest or not. He gave no special direction for its application, but, under the circumstances, the law
will apply it to the only debt he then owed to Loring, and that
was his share of this purchase money. Loring, by keeping the
charge for the purchase money out of his accounts, cannot deprive Palmer of his right to the application of his credits. In
a couple of years or so Loring began his suit, and this was kept
pending until 1874, when it was discontinued. Loring says, in
his answer, this was because he had "ascertained that Palmer
was utterly irresponsible and worthless." :Now it turns out that
when the suit was abandoned, he was himself in debt to Palmer,
and that all the time he had securities in his hands which were
largely in excess of any amount he had paid for Palmer on the
land or otherwise. Under these circumstances it is impossible
to say that the evidence makes out a case of actual abandonment, or that Palmer has been guilty of such laches as to bar
him of the equities which are now so clearly shown to have
existed in his favor all the time. His delay in bringing th6
suit is to be construed in connection with the uncertainty that
existed as to the true situation of his accounts. Loring must
have kn-wn that Palmer relied on him to keep the accounts,
and having himself been guilty of such glaring errors in his
statements and in his claims, Palmer is not to be charged alone
with the fault of delay. The same explanation applies to his
failure to respond more definitely to the letter of Loring under
date of February 22, if there was in fact apy such failure. He
did, however, by the sale of his Hecla stock, put Loring in
funds to an amount sufficient to meet his entire share of the
purchase money, and that too on the very day he was required
to do so by this letter of Loring. This renders it unfecessary
to consider the conflicting testimony on the subject of the letter.

