OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

PAINE v. CENTRAL VERMONT :RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF VERMONT.
Argued April 8, 186.-Decided May 10, 1886.

In an action in the Circuit Court of the United States, submitted by stipulation of the parties, -inaccordance with the practice prevailing in the State

where the court is held, to the decision of the judge "as referee," the only
matter reviewable by this court is error of law in the judgment of the court
upon the facts found by the referee.
A promissory note payable on demand, with interest, was made by a railroad
corporation: to a stockholder for money lent, and with the understanding
that assessments to be laid on his shares should, when payable, be considered as payments upon the note. - Assessments to a greater amount than
the note afterwqrds became payable, and the difference only was paid by
him. Held, That the note was paid as between the corporation and the
payee, and as against a subsequent endorsee taking the note when overdue.
By the statutes of Massachusetts and of Vermont, promissory notes payable on
demand are overdue in sixty days after date.

This was an action of assumpsit, brought October 1, 1878, in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Vermont, by a citizen of New York as endorsee, against a Vermont
corporation as maker, of the following promissory note:
"$5000.
Boston, July 10th, 1873.
"On demand after date, with interest, we promise to pay to
the order of H. B. Wilbur, Treasurer, five thousand dollars.
"CENTRA
VERmONT R. R. Co.,
"As Receivers and Managers Vermont Central,
and Vermont and Canada R. R.
"By H. B. WILBUR, Treasurer.
"No.. 8. Value received. Approved.
"J. GREGORY SMITH, President.
"H. B. WiLBUR, Treasurer."
On August 28, 1879, the defendant pleaded the general issue,

PAINE v. CENTRAL VERMONT RAILROAD CO. 153
Statement of Facts.
with a specification of defence, in accordance with the statutes
of Vermont, (Gen. Stat. 1862, ch. 30, §§ 15, 32; Rev. Laws
1880, §§ 908, 909,) that the defendant was organized as a corporation on May 27, 1873; that on July 10, 1873, it delivered
the note in suit to John Q. Hoyt, an original subscriber to the
defendant's capital stock, and then holding shares of that stock
of the par value of $50,000, only partially paid for; that on
that day the defendant being in urgent need of money and not
having time to regularly lay and collect an assessment on its
capital stock, Hoyt advanced to the defendant $5000, and the
defendant gave him this note, under an agreement that he
should hold it until an assessment covering that amount should
be made on his stock, and it was understood and agreed by
and between him and the defendant that, when such assessment
should be made, the $5000 so advanced should be applied in
payment thereof, and the note should be thereby paid and
extinguished, and should be surrendered; that on August 10,
1873, such an assessment was made by the defendant upon its
capital stock, including Hoyt's shares; that on October 28,1873,
the $5000 advanced as aforesaid was duly applied in payment
of that assessment, whereby the note was paid and extinguished,
and the note was suffered to remain in his hands through inadvertence; and that the plaintiff received the note from Hoyt
long after its payment and extinguishment as above stated, as
security for a pre-6xisting debt from Hoyt to the plaintiff, and
with full knowledge of such satisfaction and payment, and after
the note had ceased to be current.
On May 16, 1882, the counsel of the parties signed and filed
an agreement in writing, by which it was "stipulated and agreed
to refer this case to Hon. Hoyt H. Wheeler to try and decide
this case as referee."
On September 6, 1882, the referee filed his report, the material parts of which were as follows:
"On the hearing, it appeared from the evidence that in 1872
several persons were in possession of and operating the Vermont Central and Vermont and Canada Railroads as receivers
and managers of the Court of Chancery of the State, in Franklin County, and had prepared to issue a series of long-time

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

bonds, called' income and extension bonds, a part of which had
not been negotiated. The defendant was chartered with power
to temporarily operate those roads, subject to the order of that
court, and to assume the contracts of the receivers and managers.
Subscriptions to the capital stock of the defendant were opened,
and two millions in amount subscribed for April 30, 1873, of
which John Q. Hoytj of the city of New York, subscribed for
$50,000, and it was expebted by the subscribers that when the
company should be organized it would be appointed receiver of
those roads, and assume the obligations of the other receivers.
Five per cent. of the subscriptions was required by the commissioners of subscription to be pail down. The receivers were in
need of funds, and by arrangement with them one of the subscribers advanced $200,000, te4 per cent. of the subscriptions, in
behalf of all the subscribers, as a temporary loan to the receivers pending the organization of the company and proceedings
to carry out the expectations of the subscribers, and a note of
that amount was made, and, with $400,000 in amount of the
income and extension bonds as collateral security for its payment, delivered to the subscriber making the advance, upon the
understanding that the note should be paid if the defendant
company did not come into possession of the roads and assume
the obligations of the receivers, andstand against the subscriptions for stock if it did.
"The defendant company was organized 2ffay 27, 1873; was
appointed receiver and manager of the roads June 21, 1873;
and -went into possession of the roads, assuming the obligations of the former receivers and managers, July 1, 1873. An
assessment of thirty per cent on the subscriptions for stock was
laid June 24, another of ten pet cent August 13, and another
of ten per cent October 28,'-1873, the last payable bn or before
December 1, 1873. The assessment of June 24 was paid by the
subscribers respectively, including Hoyt. After the arrangement for making the defendant receiver of the roads was consummated, the note of $200,000 was given up, and .new notes
of the defendant were given, running to the subscribers separately, each in proportion to the amount of his subscription.
The other subscribers paid to the one who made the advance

PAINE v. CENTRAL VERMONT RAILROAI) CO. 155
Statement of Facts.

each his proportion of it, and received the notes and a proportionate amount of the collateral bonds. Hoyt paid $5000, and
receiyed the note in suit and $10,000 of the bonds. Hoyt paid
the assessment of August 13 and one half the assessment
of October 28; the other half of the latter wAs rescinded; and
stock issued for one half the amount subscribed. The assessments paid amounted to fifty per cent. of the subscription. Hoyt
paid, as stated, fifty per cent., and no more, of his subscription.
There was no other consideration for this note; and by the
understanding of the parties it was to be delivered up, with
the collateral bonds, on delivery to him ,of stock certificates for
his stock.
"About November 1, 1873, Hoyt became indebted to the
plaintiff, at New York, for $7000 lent, with the understanding
that the loan should be increased to $10,000, and delivered this
note and these bonds to him. as security for the payment of the
loan. The plaintiff at that time knew from previous conversations with Hoyt generally about the subscription for stock and
the situation and circumstances of the roads; but he did not
know before, and was not then informed, that the note was to
stand against the subscription for the stock, nor that the bonds,
which then had a long time to run, were collateral to the note,
but took all of them supposing that they were valid securities
for what they purported to be."
"Certificates of stock were issued for all the subscribers in
1874, and delivered to them, and all but Hoyt delivered up the
notes and bonds. He endeavored to procure the note and bonds
of the plaintiff to deliver up to the defendant, but was unable
to do so."
"-In April, 1876, the plaintiff called on the president of the
defendant for payment of the note in 'suit, who told him the
circumstances under which the note was given, but did not state
that they would be relied on as a defence to the note, or that any
question would be made about its validity, and requested him to
wait and endeavor to get payment from Hoyt, and encouraged
him that he would succeed -in doing so. He had a similar interview with a like result afterwards, the president adding that if
Hoyt did not pay the plaintiff's note the defendant would not

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

ask him to wait again, but would provide for the payment of this
one. Just before this suit was brought, a similar interview was
had,"during which the president told him that he thought and
had been advised that the circumstances under which the note
was given would constitute a good defence to the note, and did
not pay it.
"The income and extension bonds were sold in the market,
March 24, 1881, for $5000, less $12.50 commission, without
notice to Hoyt or the defendant. They had been worth more
while the plaintiff held them, but this was their then market
value.
"The note is made a part of this report. It was executed as
to time and place according to its purpok."
"All the evidence showing the circumstances under which
the note was given, and the proceedings in relation to it, were
seasonably objected to, and admitted against the objections.
"The respective rights of the parties to recover in this'action
are, upon these facts, submitted to the court.
"HoYT H. WuEELER, Referee."
The record stated that afterwards "said cause came on for
trial, upon the report of the referee, before the Honorable Hoyt
H. Wheeler, District Judge of the United States within and for
the District of Vermont, and, after hearing the arguments of
counsel for the plaintiff and defendant, the court, on November
'7,
1882, filed its decision in said cause, rendering judgment for
the defendant," being the opinion reported in 14 Fed. Rep.

269.
On the same day, judgment for the defendant was entered
upon the docket, and four days afterwards the following order
was filed:
"Upon the report of the referee the court rendered judgment
for the defendant, to which decision and judgment the plaintiff excepted. Exceptions allowed and ordered to be placed
on record.

"HOYT

H.

WHEELER."

.fr. John F. -Dillon for plaintiff in error.
The note in suit was not overdue when transferred to plain-

PAINE v. CENTRAL VERMONT RAILROAD CO. 157
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

tiff. Instances may be readily cited where the courts, applying
the doctrine of reasonable time to demand notes, have held
that the presumption of dishonor was not justified upon the
lapse of periods ranging from three months to a year and a
half, or more. lT reeland v. Hyde, 2 Hall, N. Y. 429 (19
months); Eendrick8 v. Judah, 1 Johns. 319 (1 year); Sanford
v. ickl8, 4 Johns. 224(5 months); Chartered Xercantile Bank
v. -Divk~m, L. R., 3 P. 0. 574 (10 months); Aferritt v. Todd,
23 N. Y. 28 (3 years). There can be; in the nature of things,
no arbitrary limit of reasonable time applied to demand notes.
Each case stands upon its own peculiar circumstances. This
court has thus presented the rule in .fXorgah v. United States,
113 U. S. 476, 501. Mr. Justice Matthews, delivering the opinion of the court, arguendo, says: "The rule, as to ordinary negotiable paper, payable on demanct is that it is not due, without
demand, until after the lapse of a reasonable time within which
to make demand; and what the length of that reasonable time
is may vary according to the circumstances of particular cases,
and must be governed very largely by the intentions of the
parties, as manifested in the character of the paper itself, and
the purposes for which it is known to have been created and
put in circulation." See also Daniel, Neg. Inst. 451; Leith
Banking Co. v. Walker, 14 Shaw, Dunlop & Bell, 332; Rhodes
v. Seymour, 36 Conn. 1, 6.
In New York it is "settled law that a note payable on demand with interest is a continuing security against an endorser
until actual demand." Shutts v. Fingar (N. Y. Court of Appeals, Nov. 24, 1885), 100 N. Y. 539; Parker v. Stroud, 98
N. Y. 379; Jferritt v. Todd, 23 N. Y. 29-; Pardee v. Fish,
60 N. Y. 265. In England a promissory note on demand with
.interestis regarded as a continuing security. Brook v. X[itchell,
9 M. & W. 15; Gascoyne v. Smith, M'Clel. & Yo.338; Barough v. 1Vitt, 6 D. & R. 379. As to the effect of the provision
for interest as bearing on the question of apparent intention,
see TMethey v. A ndrews, 3 Hill, 582; 1ockwood v. Crawford, 18
Conn. 311.
It appears by the record that the $5000 loaned on the note
in suit was a part of sums borrowed by the company for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

purpose of enabling it to carry on its operations pending the
coming in of instalments on subscriptions to its capital stock.
The case was one of loan to a debtor presently unable to repay,
but assured of large resources in the future. It was transferred
long before the time of its stipulated return (as alleged) and
while it was still a subsisting obligation unpaid and undischarged. It was transferred at a time when the company intended that it should be outstanding, and hence transferable.
Under the evidence offered by the company, it is hard to conceive how it can avail itself of a presumption which is not only
in conflict with the generally known circumstances of the case,
and with the character of the note itself, but in direct conflict
with the facts relied on by the defence. The presumption of
dishonor is not available to one who affirmatively shows that
his obligation was to remain outstanding for a much longer
time than the time at which, as he asserts, the presumption
should arise.
YXr. Dillon argued other points which were not considered
by the court in its opinion.
.2r.George F. Edmunds and .Xr'. Guy . Noble for defendant in error . Mr. Daniel Roberts and .Afr. E. 0. Smith were
with them on the brief.
M:Ri.JUsTICE GRAY, after stating the case as above reported,

delivered the opinion of the court.
This case was not submitted to the decision of the court without a jury, pursuant to the Revised Statutes of the United
States, §§ 649, 700; but to the decision of the judge as referee in accordance with the statutes and practice of Vermont.
'Gen. Stat. 1862, ch. 30, § 52;_Rev. Laws 1880, § 985; Mtite v.
JT'7ite, 21 Vt. 250; 3felendy v. Spaulding, 54 Vt. 517. The
only question presented by the writ of error, therefore, is
whether there is any error of law in the judgment rendered by
the court upon the facts found by the referee. See Bond v.
-Dusti, 112 T. S. 604, 606, 607, and cases there cited.
The report of the referee, although a little obscure in parts,
sufficiently shows that the material facts were as follows: Sub-

PAINE v. CENTRAL VERMONT RAILROAD CO. 159
Opinion of the Court.

scriptions were made to the capital stock of the defendant corporation to the amount of two millions of dollars (of which Hoyt
subscribed $50,000), with the expectation that the defendant,
when organized as a corporation, should be appointed, pursuant
to its charter, receiver of two other railroad corporations, and
should assume the obligations of the former receivers. Those receivers were short of money, and by arrangement with them one
of the subscribers, in behalf of all, advanced as a temporary loan
to the receivers $200,000 (ten per cent. of the whole subscription), and a note for that amount was made to him, with the understanding that the note should be paid if the defendant did
not come into possession of the roads and assume the obligations
of the receivers, and should "stand against the subscriptions for
stock if it did." After the defendant bad been organized and
been appointed receiver, and had assumed the obligations of
the former receivers, the note of $200,000 was given up, and
instead thereof the defendant gave new notes to each subscriber
separately for ten per cent. of the amount of his subscription,
and each of the other subscribers paid his proportion of the sum
of $200,000 to the one who had advanced that sum. Hoyt paid
him $5000, and received the note in suit, which was made
and dated at Boston, July 10, 1873, and was payable on -demand, with interest. The assessments laid on the subscriptions
for stock amounted to fifty per cent., of which five per cent.
was paid at the time of subscribing; thirty per cent. was laid
June 24, which is stated to have been "paid by the subscribers
respectively, including Hoyt, " ten per cent. was laid August
13, and five per cent. laid October 24 and payable December 1,
1873, both of which Hoyt paid. This part of the report of the
referee, after stating the above facts, concludes thus: "The
assessments paid amounted to fifty per cent of the subscriptions.
Hoyt paid, as stated, fifty per cent., and no more, of his subscription. There was no other consideration for this note; and
by the understanding of the parties it was to be delivered up,
with the collateral bonds, on delivery to him of stock certificates for his stock."
It is evident that the ten per cent. on Hoyt's stock, which
had been included in the sum of $200,000 stated to have been

OCTOBER TERM,

1885.

Opinion of the Court.

originally advanced by the lender "in behalf of all the sub9cribers," and which was repaid to him by Hoyt when the
notes to the several subscribers were substituted for the single
note for the whole original advance, is to be considered as part
of the fifty per cent. paid by Hoyt towards his subscription,
and that he paid directly to the defendant ofily forty per cent.
The difference in form of the statements, that "the assessment
of June 24 was paid by the subscribers respectively, including
Hoyt,"- but that "Hoyt paid" the two later assessments, is, to
say the least, quite consistent with this view. And any other
is wholly inconsistent with the ultimate facts expressly found,
*that "Hoyt paid; as stated, fifty per cent., and no more, of his
subscription," and that "there was no other consideration for
this note."
The effect of the agreement between the defendant corporation and Hoyt was that the assessments to be laid upon his
stock in the corporation should, when payable, be not only set
off against, but considered as payments upon, the note for $5000
from the corporation to him, now in suit.- When Hoyt delivered this note to the plaintiff, on :November 1, 1873, the assessments already due and payable upon his stock amounted to
much more. As between the defendant and Hoyt, therefore,
as well as against any one who took this note from Hoyt,
when overdue, the note had been paid. American Bank v.
Jnnes, 2 :Met. 288; Gilson v. Gilson, 16 Vt. 464.
In this country, a promissory note payable on demand has
always been held to be overdue, so as to subject any one taking
it to all defences to which it would be open in the hands of
the payee, unless transferred within a reasonable tihae after its
date; and what is reasonable time is a question of law, depending upon all the circumstances of the particular case.
Xkorgan v. United States, 113 U. S. 476, 501; Losee v. Dztnkin,
7 Johns. 70; Sylvester v. Cr'apo,15 Pick. 92; Dennett v. Ieland,
13 Vt. 485; Camp v. Clark, 14 Vt. 387. See also Chartered
.fercantile Bank v. .Dickson, L. R. 3 P. O. 574, 579.
The difficulties of applying this test, and the convenience
of a more definite rule, have led the legislatures of many
States to regulate the matter by statute; and before the mak-

