CARSON v. HYATT.
Syllabus.

grant, and the officer who issues it acts ministerially and not
judicially. If he issues a patent for land reserved from'sale by
law, such patent 'is void for want of authority. But one officer
of the land office is not competent to cancel or annul the act of
his predecessor. That is a judicial act, and requires the judgment of a court." This language is equally applicable to the
present case, and its correctness has been often recognized.
-Moore v. 2obins, 96 'U. S. 530, 533 ; United Staies v. Schu"z,
102 U. S. 378, 396; Steel v. Smelting Company, 106 U. S. 447,
454; -Moffat v. United States, 112 U. S. 24.
The decree of the Ci, cuit Court is
AJlrmed.

CARSON v. HYATT & Another.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

SAME v. SAME.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
Argued April 20, 21, 1886.-Decided May 10. 1888.

An action was commenced in a court of the State of South Carolina against
plaintiff in error and other defendants. Plaintiff in error, after an answer
prepared and signed by counsel had been filed, in which it was stated that
she was a citizen of New York, petitioned for its removal to the Circuit
Court of the United States on the ground of a separable controversy, alleging that she was a citizen of Massachusetts, that plaintiffs below were
citizens of New York, except one, a citizen or subject of Spain, and that
the other defendants below were citizens of different States named other
than Massachusetts. The State court disallowed the petition for removal
on the ground that it appeared from the answer that plaintiff in errorwas
a citizen of New York: Held, That this question was one of fact to be determined by the Circuit Court of the United States, and not by the State
eourt ; that plaintiff in error was not estopped by the answer from setting
up that she was a citizen of New York; and that, as a case for removal was
made out on the face of the petition, the petition was improperly denied.
&or v. South Carolina,117 U. S. 430 affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

On the proof the court is satisfied that plaintiff in error was, when the suit was
commenced, and continued to be, a citizen of Massachusetts; and that on
her petition the cause should have been removed to the Circuit Court of the
United States.
The court also holds, on an examination of the record and the proof and the
Code of South Carolina, that the petition for the removal in this case was
made "at the term at which the cause could first be tried" according to the
meaning of that phrase as construed in Babbit v. Clark, 103 U. S. 600 ; and
Pullman Palace Car Co. v. Speck, 113 U. S. 84.
,The

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

2r. H .S. Young and J21. James Lowndes for plaintiff in
error and appellant.
X21k. Edward .2kCrady,Jr., for defendants in error and appellees.
.CjaIEF JusTIcF'WArrn delivered the opinion of the court.
The records in these cases show that William A. Carson, a
M

citizen of South Carolina, died on the 1Ith of August, 1856,
leaving a will by which he devised the bulk of his property,
real and personal, to his executors, Alexander Robertson and
John F. Blacklock, substantially in trust for his widow, Caroline Carson, and his sons, William Carson and James P. Carson,
but with a power of sale in the executors. .Under these circumstances the executors sold a plantation known as "1Dean Hall"
to Etlias N. Ball, and for the unpaid purchase money he, on the
2d of March, 1857, executed his bonds conditioned for the paymdnt in all of the sum of $31,000, in five equal annual instalments
from January 14, 1851, with interest from March 2, payable
annually, and secured by mortgage on the property. The debts
of the estate were all paid in June, 1851, and from that time
the executors held the bonds and mortgage of Ball in trust for
Mrs. Carson and her two sons. The sons afterwards assigned
their interest in the bonds to their mother. Mrs. Carson left
South Carolina early in 1861 and went to Ne'- York to live.
She has never since returned to South Carolina. Her son William came of age in 1863, but he left South Carolina before the
late civil war and has been absent ever since. James did not

CARSON v. HYATT.
Opinion of the Court.

come of age until after the war, and the executor Blacklock
was absent from the United States during the whole of it.
In March, 1863, the firm of Hyatt, MeBurney &. Company,,
doing business in Charleston, bought "Dean Hall" from Ball,
and he, at their request, induced Robertson, the only trustee
then in America, to accept payment of the bonds held for Mrs.
Carson in Confederate treasury notes and discharge the mortgpge. This being done, Ball conveyed the property to Edmund
Hyatt, William McBurney, William Hasseltine, Thomas R. McGaban, and Alfred L. Gillespie, who composed the firm of
Hyatt, MeBurney & Co. On the 8th of May, 1863, Hyatt
sold his interest in the firm to his other partners, and executed
to them a conveyanc6 of this property among the other assets,
and the remaining partners gave to him a bond for $40,000,
secured by mortgage on these premises.
After the war ended Mrs. Carson, then a citizen of New York,
brought suit in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of South Carolina to re-establish the mortgage and to
set aside the release which had been executed by Robertson,
and for a foreclosure. A decree was entered Dy the Circuit
Court in accordance with the prayer of the bill, but on appeal
to this court that decree was reveised for want of proper parties, and the cause, sent back for further proceedings. Robertson v. Carson, 19 Wall. 94. When the case got back to the
Circuit Court the required additional parties were made, and
another decree was finally entered, establishing the rights of
Mrs. Carson, and ordering a sale of the property. This decree was affirmed here at the October term, 1878. MYcBe/,,y
v. Carson, 99 U. S. 567. Hyatt was not a party to that suit,
he being then a citizen of New York, the same as Mrs. Carson
at that time. Under this decree the property was sold and
bought by Mrs. Carson. Hyatt died in Nlew York on the
20th of September, 1876, leaving a will appointing his daughter, Mary A. Hyatt, executrix, and Joaquin Delmonte executor. Mary A. Hyatt and Julia Delmonte are devisees under
the will and heirs-at-law of his estate, and Mary E. Hyatt is
his widow and an heir-at-law. Joaquin Delmonte is a citizen
or subject of Spain, and all the others are citizens of New York.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court

At some time, but precisely when does not appear from the
records, these parties filed in the Court of Common Pleas of
Charleston, South Carolina, their complaint, which was sworn
to on the 15th of October, 1879, against William McBurney,
William Hasseltine, Alfred L. Gillespie, and Thomas R. McGa'eBurney & Co.,"
han, "members of the late firm of Hyatt, M
and Caroline Carson, for the foreclosure of the mortgage given
Hyatt on his retirement from the firm. It does not appear how
or by what process the defendants were brought into court, but
there is in the record a stipulation of which the following is a
copy.:
"Mary A. Hyatt, as Executrix and as Devisee and Heir-at-law
of the late Edmund Hyatt; Joaquin Delmonte, Executor
of the said Edmund Hyatt; Mary E. Hyatt, Widow and
Heir-at-law of the said Edmund Hyatt, deceased; and Julia
Delmonte, as Devisee and Heir-at-law of the said Edmund
.Hyatt,
VS.

"William McBurney, William Hasseltine, Alfred L. Gillespie,
and Thomas R. M Gahan, members of the late firm of
Hyatt, cBurney & Co., and Caroline Carson.
"The time for the defendants in this case to answer having
expired, on motion of McCrady & Son, plaintiffs' attorneys, it
is ordered that the case be referred to W. D. Clancy, Esq., one
of the masters of this court, to take testimony and report the
same; and, with the consent of the said plaintiffs' attorneys,
it is further ordered that the defendant Caroline Carson do
hSve further time to answer the complaint herein, to wit, until
the twenty-fourth day of January next, and that she be allowed
to file the same, under the signature of her counsel, who has
entered an appearance in the cause, without oath thereto.
"Deceniber 16, 1879.
"We consent.

A. P. ALDUOH.
McCIUDY & SoN,
A. G. MAGRATH."

The record shows an answer of Mrs. Carson, not under oath,
and signed only by her counsel, setting up her defence upon

CARSOI v. HYATT.
Opinion of the Court.

the same facts on which she recovered in the other suit. In
this answer it is, among other things, stated, that early in 1861
she "left South Carolina and went to New York, where she
has ever since resided and had her domicil." This answer was
filed January 31, 1880, and, on the 16th of February, Mrs.
Carson presented her petition for the removal of the suit to the
Circuit Court of the United States, the material parts of which
are as follows:
"To the honorable the judges of the said court:
"Your petitioner, Caroline Carson, respectfully sheweth that
the above-entitled suit is of a civil nature, and is now pending
in this court; the matter or amount in dispute is, exclusive of
costs, the sum or value of five hundred dollars, and is of the
value of over ten thousand dollars; that the controversy in the
said suit is between citizens of different States and between
citizens of a State and a citizen or subject of a foreign State;
that your petitioner was at the beginning of this suit, and still
is, a citizen of the State of Massachusetts; that the said Joaquin
Delmonte then was, and still is, a citizen or subject of Spain,
and all the other parties, plaintiffs above mentioned, then were,
and still are, citizens of the State of New York; that William
McBurney and Thomas R. McGahan then were, and still are,
citizens of South Carolina; that Alfred L. Gillespie then was,
and still is, a citizen of Tennessee; and William flasseltine
then was, and still is, a citizen of California.
"Your petitioner further says that in the above-mentioned
suit there is a controversy which is wholly between citizens of
different States and between a citizen of a State and a foreign
State, namely, between the said plaintiffs and your petitioner,
and which can be wholly determined as between them."
Accompanying this petition was the following affidavit:
"Personally appeared before me James Lowndes, and made
oath that he is the attorney of Caroline Carson, and has read
her petition for the removal of the said cause to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of South Carolina,
and that the facts therein stated are true to the best of his

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

information and belief, save that he cannot aver that Dean
Hall is of greater value than five thousand dollars and five
hundred dollars; that his information as to the domicil of
Hasseltine is drawn from a statement made to him by some
person, whose name he cannot recall; that his information as
to the domicil of Caroline Carson is drawn from these facts,
viz.: That about the 1st July, 187, he received in due course
of mail a letter from the said Caroline Carson, dated at Brookline, Massachusetts, in which she informed the deponent that
she had made a declaration or affidavit of her change of domicil from New York to Massachusetts; and that deponent continued to receive letters from her in the latter State during the
month of July, 1877, and he knows her purpose to have been
to become a citizen of Massachusetts; and he knows that she
has not in fact for many years resided in New York:

11JAYEs

IOWwDiES."

On the 25th of March the court refused to stop further proceedings, giving its reasons therefor as follows:
"The plaintiffs in this case, except one, a Spanish subject,
are citizens of the State of New York, and the controversy, as
'appears by the pleadings, is wholly between them and the defendant Caroline Carson, who, in her answer, states that she is
also a citizen of that State. She has also filed with her answer
an exhibit of a previous case in the United States Court relating to the same matter, in which case she was plaintiff, suing
as a citizen of the State of New York. No motion has been
made by her for leave to amend or withdraw her answer, nor has
any affidavit or other testimony been submitted showing that
her answer was erroneous and the matter therein in reference
to her citizenship was inserted by inadvertence or mistake.
After this case had been referred to the master, and after the
filing of her said answer by the said defendant, and the master, attended by the attorneys for plaintiffs and said defendant, had finished taking the testimony offered by the plaintiffs, the said defendant filed a petition in this court praying a
removal of this case to the Circuit Court of the United States,
and alleging that she is a citizen of the State of Massachusetts.

CARSON v. HYATT.

285.

Opinion of thd Court.

I'That petition is not properly verified, and the insufficient

affidavit by -her attorney does not state any matter which
would, justify me in disregarding the positive statement in her
answer and exhibit.
"I, therefore, hold that the controversy in this case is
between a citizen of the State of New York on the one side
and other citizens of the same State and a Spanish subject on
the other side; and, further, that the petition of defendant for
the removal of the case was not filed until after the trial had
commenced.
"She is, therefore, not entitled to have the case removed
,from this court, and her motion to that effect is refused."
On the 9th of March, 1880, a transcript of the record was
filed by Mrs. Carson in the Circuit Court of the United States,
and on the 10th of December, 1881, the cause came up for
hearing in that court on a motion to remand. At this time
affidavits were filed showing clearly that Mrs. Carson, in May
or June, 1877, changed her citizenship from New York to Massachusetts, and that she had not from that time resided in New
York or represented that State as her home. The answer was
drawn by her counsel and her domicil in New York stated by
inadvertence without her knowledge. As soon as the answer
was seen by her she called attention to the mistake which had
been made in this particular. The court, upon consideration of
*the record and the affidavits, granted the motion to remand, on
the ground that,'as the petition had not been filed in the State
court until after answer, and after the master had under the
order of reference proceeded to take testimony, it was too late,
as the trial had been begun. From this order an appeal was
taken, which is one of the cases now under consideration.
Before the motion to remand was decided in the Circuit
Court the State court proceeded with the suit, and on the 30th
of August, 1880, a decision was rendered in favor of Mrs. Carson. An appeal was thereupon taken to the Supreme Court,
where the judgment of the Common Pleas was reversed, on
the 16th of July, 1881, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings. Afterwards, on the 9th of September, 1881, a
decree was rendered in the Common Pleas against Mrs. Car-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

son, from which she appealed on the ground, among others,
that because of her petition for removal all rightful jurisdiction of the Court of Common Pleas ceased, and its proceedings
thereafter were null and void. Afterwards the Supreme Court
affirmed the decree, and in so doing sustained the jurisdiction
of the Common Pleas, giving its reasons as follows:
"The facts stated in this petition were, perhaps, sufficient to
entitle the petitioner to the order had the petition been filed
within proper time, and had the facts stated been sustained by
the record as a whole, but the petition broke down at both of
these points. It was not filed as required by the act of Congress (1875) at or before the term at which the suit could have
been tried; nor did it appear upon the face of the record that
the citizenship 'of Mrs. Carson was in Massachusetts. True,
this fact was stated in the petition, but her answer distinctly
stated that she was a citizen of New York. Thus the record
on its face failed to show the important fact required for
removal. Afeyer v. Contruction Co., 100 U. S. 457. Hence,
Judge Pressley had no other alternative but to dismiss the
petition upon both of the grounds mentioned."
From this decree of affirmance a writ of error has been
taken to this court, which presents the other of the two cases
now before us.
In our opinion the State court erred in retaining jurisdiction
of the suit after the petition for removal was presented, and
the Circuit Court in remanding it after it had been docketed
there. The record presents but a single controversy in the
suit, and that between the plaintiffs and Mrs. Carson as to the
priority of her lien. This is conceded. In this controversy all
the other defendants may properly be arranged on the same
side with the plaintiffs, and thus leave Mrs. Carson at liberty
to apply for a removal without joining the others with her.
Removal Cases, 100 U. S. 457. So far there is no dispute, but
the objections to the removal are:
1. That upon the face of the record, as the case stood in the
State.court, after the petition for removal was presented, Mrs.
Carson appeared as a citizen of the same State with some of
those on the other side of the controversy; and,

CARSON v. HYATT.
Opinion of the Court.

2. That the petition was not in time, because it vas not presented "before or at the term at which said cause could be
first tried, and before the trial thereof."
1. As to the citizenship. In Stone v. South Carolina,111
U. S.430, it was said, following the former cases on the subject, that a State court is not bound to surrender its jurisdiction
until a case has been made which, on its face, shows that the
petitioner for removal has a right to the transfer, but it was
also said that "all issues of fact made upon the petition for
removal must be tried in the Circuit Court." The State court
is only at liberty to inquire whether, on the face of the
record, a case has been made which requires it to proceed no
further.
In the present case the petition stated, in positive terms,
that Mrs. Carson was, at the beginning of the suit, and, still
continued to be, a citizen of Massachusetts. With that fact
established, the necessary citizenship for a removal existed.
Whether it was a fact or not, could, under the ruling in Stone
v. South Carolina, only be tried in the Circuit Court, unless
the statement in the answer filed on behalf of Mrs. Carson
estopped her from denying her citizenship in New York. The
record of the former suit, which is referred to in the opinion of
the Common Pleas judge, we put entirely out of this branch
of the case, because the statements there related to a time long
anterior to that in which, according to the affidavit, the change
of her citizenship occurred. At most it was only evidence,
and had nothing to do with the "face of the record." Neither
can we look on the statement in the answer as to her domicil,
signed by her counsel only, and not under oath, which was
filed some days before her petition for removal was presented,
as estopping her from asserting the truth. The affidavits on
that subject, filed in the Circuit Court, show how the mistake arose, and that the statement was promptly denied by
Mrs. Carson as soon as it was brought to her attention. Upon
the hearing of the motion to remand in the Circuit Court,
there was a full argument by McCrady & Son for the complainants, and by Mr. Young for Mrs. Carson, and the evidence which was submitted, and which was uncontradicted,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

sufficiently established a change of citizenship from New York
to Massachusetts as early as the middle of 1877, and long
before this suit was brought.
2. As to the time. The record is silent as to the manner
in which Mrs. Carson was brought into court. The complaint could not have been filed before October 15, 1879,
because that is the date of its verification. The evidence
establishes the fact beyond question that Mrs. Carson was not
in South Carolina between October 15 and December 16, 1879.
Co-dsequently she could not have been served personally with
process in the State between those days. By the statutes of
South Carolina the terms of the Common Pleas of Charleston
County began on the second Monday of February, June, and
November in each year. The second Monday of iNovember,
1879, fell on the 10th of the month. Consequently, there
were only twenty-five days between the 15th of October and
the beginning of the November term of the court for that year.
By the Code of Practice of South Carolina, Mrs. Carson, if she
had been served personally with process on the 15th of October, could not have been required to answer before November
4th, and if by publication, as she might have been, not before
December 16th. A section of the Code, ยง278, as amended, provides: "At any time after issue and .at least fourteen days
bef6re court, the plaintiff shall file in the clerk's office the
summons and complaint in the cause, endorsing thereon the
nature of the issue and the number of the docket upon which
the same shall be placed; and if the plaintiff fail to do so, the
defendant, seven days before the court, may file copies of said
papers, with like endorsement, and the clerk shall thereupon
place said cause upon its appropriate docket, and it shall
stand for trial without any further notice of trial or notice of
issue."
The stipulation of December 16,1879, amounted to a waiver
of all -default previous to that date, and put the parties in no
worse condition than they would have been if -Mrs.Carson had
filed her answer and put the case at issue at rules. Certainly,
we are not to presume, on the face of this record, that she
could have been forced to trial at the November term. Had

CARSON v. HYATT.
Opinion of the Court.

she answered on the 4th of November, which'was the earliest
day she could have been required to do so, there would not
have been fourteen days between that and the term, and so,
under the Code of Practice, the case could not have been tried
until the February term without her consent; and the same
.would be true if she had put in her answer on the 16th
December, which is probably the day it was really due. Her
petition was presented at the February term, and consequently it was "at the term at which the cause could be first
tried," according to the meaning of that phrase in the act of
1875, as it has been construed. Babbitt v. Clark, 103 U. S.
606; Pullman Palace Car Co. v. Speck, 113 U. S. 84.
It remains only to consider whether the petition was presented before a trial was begun. The stipulation was not to
send the case to the master for" trial," but "to take testimony
and report the same." In its effect, this was nothing more
than an agreement for the appointment of ati examiner before
whom the testimony in the suit, which was in its nature a suit
in equity, could be taken. The mster had no authority to
find either the facts or the law. His duty was to take and
write out the testimony to be reported to the court for use on
the trial when it should be begun.
We conclude, therefore, that the suit was removable, and
that the petition therefor was presented in time.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of South Carolina is
Reversed and the cause remanded, with directions that it be
sent to the Court of Common Pleas of Charleston County
.for removal to the Circuit Court, in accordance with the
.prayer of the petition for that purpose, and the order of'
the Circuit Court 'remandingthe suit is reversed, and that
court is directed to take jurisdiction and proceed to ajnal
determination of the matter in controversy.
Mr. JUSTIcE BLATrOoRD took, no part in the decision of.

these cases.
TOL. cxVn-19

