264'

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

PLYMOUTH GOLD MINTNG COMPANY v. AMADOR
& SACRAMENTO CANAL COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF TE

UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE SAME COURT.
Submitted April 26, 1886.-Decided May 10, 1888.
When the same cause is brought to this court by appeal and by writ of error,
on the same record, it is not necessary to docket it twice.
A complaint or declaration charging a corporation, and individuals who are its
agents and servants, with polluting a stream of water belonging to the plaintiff and rendering it unfit for use, and seeking a remedy against the defendants jointly, does not present a controversy separable for the purposes of removal from a State court, although the defendants answer separately setting
up separate defences.
Pirie v. Tvedt, 115 U. S. 41, and Sloane v. Anderson, 117 U. S. 278, affirmed
and applied.
When a complaint or declaration in an action in a State court sets up a joint
cause of action in tort agamst several defendants for injuries done jointly
to plaintiff, separate answers of the defendants setting up that the acts
complained of were committed under direction of one of them and were justified by a contract between plaintiff and that particular defendant, and
that the acts complained of as done by the other defendants were done by
them as his servants and under his directions, do not necessarily change the
controversy between the plaintiff and that defendant into a setarate controversy, removable to the courts of the United States under the removal
acts: and allegations in the petition for removal that the agents were joined
as defendants in order to prevent the removal of the cause to the Circuit
Court of the United States are of no avail, if not proved.

This was a motion to dismiss, to which was added a motion
to affirm. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
'Xr. J. H. YcCune for the motions.

.A6. JAn H. Boalt opposing.

PLYMOUTH MINING CO. v. A3_ADOR CANAL CO. 265
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. CmEr XusTicE, WAIrT delivered the opinion of the
court.
The Amador and Sacramento Canal Company, a California
corporation, brought suit in the Superior Court of Sacramento
County, California, against the Plymouth Consolidated Gold
Mining Company, a New York corporation, and Alvinza
Hayward, E. L. Montgomery, and Walter S. Hobart, citizens
of California, to enjoin them from polluting the waters running
into the canal of the Amador Company, and to recover $25,000
damages for what had already been done in that way. The
material averments in the complaint, as to the alleged wrongful acts of the defendants, are as follow- :
"IIIL That the plaintiff is, and for more than ten years last
past has been, the owner in fee and in possession of a certain
canal, about 26 miles long, situate partly in the county of
Amador, in said State, and partly in said county of Sacramento, called the Amador and" Sacramento Canal, extending
from a dam across the Cosumnes River, near the southeast
corner of section twenty, in township eight north, range nine
east, Mount Diablo base and meridian, in said county of Amador, to Sebastopol, in said county of Sacramento, in section
sixteen, township seven north, range seven east, Mount Diablo
base and meridian; and is also the owner of the water usually
flowing through said canal, and has used the said canal and
water during all of said period of ten years for mining and
agricultural purposes, and selling water for such purposes.
"IV.* That the defendant, the Plymouth Consolidated Gold
Mining Company, is the owner of two certain mills, situate at
Plymouth, in said county of Amador, constructed and used for
crushing gold-bearing quartz, and since the 2d day of January,
1882, has been such owner, and the defendants for three years
next before the commencement of this action have, at said
mills, carried on and conducted the business of crushing goldbearing quartz rock, and extracting and collecting gold therefrom, and have used large quantities of water in and about
their business taken from the Moquelumne River.
"'V. That from the said mills, the corporation defendant,
extending in a direction a little north of west, has a valley

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

through which runs Little Indian Creek until it intersects the
said canal of plaintiff near the southeast corner of section four,
in township seven north, range nine east, Mount Diablo base
and meridian, and the defendants, since the first day of December, 1881, have used the said creek at their said mills
as a dumping place for the tailings, sand, sediment, silt, and
other d~bris flowing to and formed by the working of said
mills.
"YL That in and about the working and management of
said mills the defendants use large quantities of water taken
from the Moquelumne River and other streams by them, and
which water, mixed, defiled, and polluted with said tailings,
sand, quartz-sand, sediment, silt, and other d6bris, has been,
during the three years next before the commencement of this
action, poured into said creek and carried by said water in said
creek to and into the said canal of plaintiff.
"VII. That the said water so mixed, polluted, and defiled
by the defendants, and discharged by them into the plaintiff's
canal as aforesaid, has, during all of said three years, mingled
with the pure water flowing in the said canal, and has deposited therein all the said tailings, sand, quartz-sand, sediment,
silt, and other d6bris as aforesaid, and the same has been swept
along the said canal of plaintiff by the force of the water
flowing therein, and has been distributed and deposited therein,
and thereby the bed of the said canal became and was raised,
and the canal obstructed and damaged, and filled up -md
rendered unfit for use, and the water in said canal became
loaded with said d6bris, and thereby rendered less useful."
The Plymouth Company answered separately, setting forth
that it was a New York corporation whose powers were by
law vested in seven trustees, of whom the defendants Hay wood
and Hobart were two, and that Montgomery was the superintendent of its mines and mills in California. The answer then
admitted that the corporation was the owner of the mills mentioned in the complaint, and that "it has at said mills carried
on and conducted the business of crushing gold-bearing quartz
rock and extracting and collecting gold therefrom, and used
large quantities of water in and about said business, and that

PLYMOUTH MINING CO. v. AMADOR CANAL CO.

267

Opinion of the Court.

some of said water was taken from the Moquelumne River, but
it denies that all of said water was taken therefrom, and it denies that it has during the time alleged in the complaint, or at
any other time, or at all, carried on or conducted at said mills,
or either of them, or elsewhere, the said business, or any business, or has used large quantities of water, or any water, in or
about said business or otherwise, in connection with the other
defendants mentioned in the complaint, or either of them, but,
on the contrary, this defendant avers that said business has
been carried on and conducted and said water has been used by
this defendant exclusively and for its sole use and benefit and
without any connection or combination with the other defendants in this action, or either of them, and that this defendant
has not had, during any of the times mentioned in the complaint, and does not now have, any connection or relation with
the said Hayward or Hobart or Montgomery other than such
official relation aforesaid."
After this the separate defence of the corporation to the action was set forth, to the effect that the company was opera-.
ting its mills under a license from the Amador Conipany, which
justified all that had been done for which the suit had been.
brought. Haywa'rd, Montgomery, and Hutchinson filed their
separate answer, in which they denied each and every allegation in the complaint against them in connection with the Plymouth Company or otherwise. After the filing of their answer,
the Plymouth Company presented to the court a petition for
the ren~oval of the suit to the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of California, the material parts of which, aside
from a statement of the citizenship of the parties, according to
the facts, are as follows:
"But your petitioner avers and shows to the court that in
the said suit above mentioned there is a controversy which is
wholly between citizens of different States, and which can be
fully determined as between them, to wit, a controversy between your petitioner and said Amador and Sacramento Canal
Company, and that said two corporations are the sole and only
parties interested in said controversy.
"That said defendants Alvinza Hayward, E. L. Montgomery,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.

Opinion of the Court.

and Walter S. Hobart, are not, nor is either of them, a necessary or proper party defendant in said action.
"That said defendants Alvinza Hayward, E. L. Montgomery,
and Walter S. Hobart, and each of them, are nominal and
formal parties defendant to said suit, and they, nor either of
them, have any interest in the said controversy, and they nor
either of them are actual, real, or necessary parties defendant,
but are sham defendants sued in said action with your petitioner, as it avers on information and belief, with the object,
purpose, intent, and design of endeavoring thereby to prevent
the removal of said cause into the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of California by your petitioner, who is
the real defendant therein.
"That said Alvinza Hayward and Walter S. Hobart are
stockholders and officers of your petitioner, to wit, two of the
members of its board of seven trustees, and they have not, nor
has either of them, any interest in the said controversy other
than as such officers or stockholders.
"The said defendant E. L. Montgomery is the superintendent of the mines and mills of your petitioner, and has no interest whatever in said controversy.
"That all the acts and grievances complained of and alleged
to have been done by said defendants, if any such were done,
were the sole acts of your petitioner.
"And your petitioner avers and shows that the real litigation herein is between said plaintiff and your petitioner, citizens
of different States, as aforesaid.
"And your petitioner further shows that it has not carried on
or conducted any mining or milling business in connection with
said defendants or with either of them.
"Sknd your petitioner further shows that the matter and
amount in dispute in the above-entitled suit exceeds, exclusive
of costs, the sum or value of five hundred dollars."
On the presentation of this petition the State court directed
the removal of the suit, and proceeded no further. The case
was docketed in the Circuit Court on the 19th of May, and on
the 17th of June the Amador Company moved to remand,
among others, on the following grounds:

PLYMOUTH MINING CO. b. AMADOR CANAL CO.

269

Opinion of the Court.

"I. That the said suit does not really or substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly within the jurisdiction
of said Circuit Court."
"HI. Because the defendants did not all join in said petition
for removal.
"IV. Because the defendants are not all residents or citizens
of States other than California, and it does not appear that the
parties defendants to said suit were or have been wrongfully
joined as such.
-.
7. It does not appear from the record and papers on file
in said Circuit Court that there is a controversy which is wholly
between citizens of different States, which can be tried and
which can be fully determined between them without involving necessarily a trial of the whole case as to all of the defendants."
In the notice which was given of this motion the following
appears:
"On the hearing of said motion we will rely on and read in
evidence" 1. The transcript and record on file in said Circuit Court
in said cause.
"2. Answer of the plaintiff to the petition of the corporation
defendant for a removal, herewith served.
"3. Affidavits of J. H. McKune, W. F. George, and Jennie
B. Ritter, herewith served; and
"4. Also offer oral evidence."
Non; of the affidavits here referred to are found in the transcript, and there is no statement of any oral evidence that was
produced.
The court heard the motion on the 27th of July and remanded
the suit. From this order an appeal was taken and writ of error
brought, and these have been docketed here as separate causes.
It was not necessary-to docket the cause twice because it
was brought here both by Appeal and writ of error. Hurst
v. ]-ollingaworth,94 U. S. 111. There was but one action in
the court below, and there is but one record. The appeal and
writ of error bring up but one order or judgment for review,
and there is, therefore, but one case here.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of thb Court.

Upon the face of the complaint there is in the suit but a single
cause of action, and that is the wrongful pollution of the water
of the plaintiff's canal by the united action of all the defendants working together- Such being the case, the controversy
was not separable for the purposes of a removal, even though
the defendants answered separately, setting up separate defences. Pirie v. Tvedt, 115 U. S. 41; Sloane v. Andemom, 117
U. S. 275, 278.

It :s claimed, however, that, as the answers show that the
Plymouth Company is the real defendant, and the petition alleges that the others are nominal parties only, and joined with
that company as "sham defendants" to prevent a removal, the
suit must be treated as in legal effect against the New York
corporation alone, and, therefore, removable. So far as the
complaint goes, all the defendants are necessary and proper
parties. A judgment is asked against them all, both for an
injunction and for money. Hayward and Hudson are admitted by the answer to be officers of the corporation, and
-ontgomery its superintendent. These persons are all citizens
of California, and amenable to process in that State. It is not
denied that they are all actively engaged in the operations of
the company; and Montgomery, as the superintendent of its
mines and mills, must necessarily be himself personally connected with the alleged wrongful acts for which the suit was
brought. It is undoubtedly true that if the company has a
good defence to the action, that defence will inure to the benefit of all the other defendants; but it by no means follows that,
if the company is liable, the other defendants may not be
equally so, and jointly with the company. It is possible, also,
that the company may be guilty and the other defendants not
guilty, but the plaintiff in its complaint says they are all guilty,
and that presents the cause of action to be tried. Each party
defends for himself, but until his defence is made out the case
stands against him, and the rights of all must be governed accordingly. Under these circumstances, the averments in the
petition, that the defendants were wrongfully made to avoid a
removal can be of no avail in the Circuit Court upon a motion
to remand, until they are proven, and that, so far as the pres-

