OCTOBER TERM,

1885.

Statement of Facts.

CAPE GIRARDEAU COUNTY COURT & Others
v. HILL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Argued April 7, 1886.-Decided April 19, 1886.

A statute authorizing a municipal corporation to create a debt, required a tax
to be levied on real estate to pay it. After the debt was contracted, an
amendment to the act authorized the levy for that purpose to be made on
personal property also. The debt not being paid, and both acts being in
force, the creditor acquired by due proceedings the right to a writ of mandamus, directing the levy of a tax in order to pay his debt: Held, that he
was entitled to a writ commanding the levy on botfh species of property.
The act of the Legislature of Missouri of May 10, 1871, amending the act of
March 23,1868, entitled "An Act to facilitate the construction of railroads
in the StAte of Missouri" was not repealed by the failure of the legislature
to incorporate it,
into the Revision of 1879.

This was a proceeding by mandamus commenced in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Missouri. The information was based upon a judgment obtained by
the relator in that court April 7,1881, for the sum of $6659.80,
the amount of certain past due coupons of bonds issued by the
county of Cape Girardeau, in that Stat6, for the payment of a
subscription made by the township of the same name to the
capital stock of the Cape Girardeau and State Line' Railroad Company. The authority for making the subscription
and issuing the bonds was a popular vote at a township election
held on the 13th of April, 1869, under a statute of March 23,
1868, entitled "An Act to facilitate the construction of railroads
in the State of M'ssburi." Laws Missouri, 1868, p. 92. The first
section of that act prescribed the condition upon which such
elections could be ordered by the county court, and required
coupon bonds to be issue, in payment of any subscription
voted, "if it shall appear, from the returns of such election,
that not less than two-thirds of the qualified voters of such
township voting at such election are in favor of such subscription." By'the second section it was made the duty of the county

CAPE GIRARDEAU COUNTY COURT v. HILL.

69

Statement of Facts.
court, from time to time, in order to pay any subscription so
voted, or the interest and principal of any bond issued on account of such subscription, to "levy and cause to be collected,
in the same manner as county taxes, a special tax, which shall
be levied on all the real e8tcae lying within the township making the subscription, in accordance with the valuation then last
made by the county assessor for county purposes."
By an act passed March 10, 1871, the second section of the
last-mentioned statute was so amended as to require this special
tax to be "levied on all the real estate and personalproperty,
including all 8tatementq of merchants doing bu&ine8 within the
said city, town, township or county, lying and being within the
township making the subscription, in accordance with the valuation then last made by the county assessor for county purposes: Provided,7wwever, that no county, city, town or township shall ever in the aggregate subscribe a sum exceeding ten
per cent. of the last annual assessment within said county, city
or township." Laws Missouri, 1871, p. 55.
It was averred in the information that a demand was made
upon the county court and the judges thereof to pay the said
judgment, interest and costs, or that they levy and cause to be
collected upon the real estate and personal property in the
township subject to taxation, including merchants' licenses, a
tax according to law for the purpose of paying the said judgment, interest and costs; that such demand was refused; and
that the county had no property out of which the judgment,
interest and costs could be made.
The return to the alternative writ of mandamus admitted the
right of the relator to a levy of a tax upon the real estate in
the township, but to so much of the information a4 sought to
compel a levy upon personal property and merchants' licenses
the county made the following defence: That the act of
March 10, 1871, was repealed by the General Assembly of
Missouri in 1879, before the relator obtained his judgment; and
that the county court had not had since such repeal, and had
not then, any authority to levy taxes upon personal property
or merchants' licenses in the township of Cape Girardeau for
the purpose of paying relator's judgment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

Upon the final hearing of the cause, it was ordered that the
county court, within thirty days after being served with a copy
of the order,, should cause to be paid whatever amount of money
may be in the treasury of the county to the credit of the
township, applicable to the payment of the judgment herein;
"said amount being whatever sum has not been heretofore
paid on judgments and writs thereunder, pro 'ata, rendered
upon coupons for which taxes have been collected for the
coupons due of the same year, from which said judgments and
writs, if any other than the relators in this case, unless of
equal date therewith, are to be excluded in said pro Pata computation."
It was further ordered and adjudged that, in default of the
payment of the full amount of the principal; interest, and costs,
the county court "cause to be levied and collected, in the same
manner as county taxes are levied and collected, a special tax to
be assessed and levied on all the real estate and personal property lying and being within the township of Cape Girardeau, in
the said county of Cape Girardeau, and ineluding all statements
of merchants doing business within said township, for the purpose of paying the judgment of relator, or so much thereof as
may remain unpaid at the time of making said levy, together
with interest and costs; "that the levy so ordered and directed
be made at the time of making the annual levy of taxes for State
and county purposes in the year 1883; that the said special
tax be extended on the regular tax-book for said year, in a separate column on said book; and that it "cause the collection
of said tax by suit, distraint, or otherwise, as by law required,
and when collected to pay the same to the relator or his attorney of record."
From that judgment the present writ of error was prosecuted.
Mr. R. B. Oliver for plaintiffs in error.
Xr. J. B. Ienderson for defendant in error.
MR. JusTICn HARN, after stating the case, as above repQrted
delivered the opinion of the court.

CAPE GIRARDEAU COUNTY COURT v. HILL.

7f

Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiffs in error concede, as ther must have done, that
the coupons upon which the relator obtained judgment are, in
view of the decisions of this court, obligations which may be
enforced by suit against the county. If any question could'
have been made as to their validity, it is concluded by the
judgment which is the foundation of the present proceeding.
The only question now before us is, whether the relator is entitled to have a tax levied upon any property other than real estate lying within the township. In behalf of the plaintiffs in
error it is contended that, as the act of 1868 only required a
tax to be levied on real estate, it was beyond the power of the
legislature by subsequent enactment, after the bonds were
issued, to subject any property other than real estate to taxation for the purpose of meeting this liability of the township.
Such legislation, it is claimed, is in violation of the prohibition,
found in both the National and State Constitutions, of laws
impairing the obligations of contracts. This position cannot
be maintained. There was not, within the meaning of such
prohibition, afiy contract between the State and the township
in respect either of the subscription which the latter voted, or
of the bonds issued in its behalf. The township being a part
of the civil government of the State established for public purposes, the powers conferred upon it were at all times subject to
legislative control or modification-at least to such as was not
inconsistent with the contract rights of third parties. But for
the provision in the State Constitution making the assent of
the voters of the township, given at an election held for that.
purpose, a condition precedent to the right of making a subscription, in its behalf, in aid of the construction of railroads,
the legislature could have imposed the tax without submitting
the question to popular vote. The provision in the act of 1868
subjecting real estate to the tax therein authorized, was L.othing
more than an expression of the legislative will, and did not
prevent the enlargement, in the discretion of the legislature, of
the subjects of taxation. The township having legally incurred an obligation to pay the bonds in question, it was competent for the legislature, a timy time, to make provision for
its being met by taxation upon any kind of property within

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of thd Court.

the township that was subject to taxation for public purposes.
The only remaining point to be considered is whether the act
of 1871 was in force when this proceeding was commenced.
We are of opinion that it was. It certainly had not then been
expressly repealed. But it is argued tha- the legislature refused to incorporate it in the revision of 1879, and by such refusal indicated a purpose to repeal't. One answer to this argument is that it does not appear that the legislature so refused.
Its express direction, at the regular session of 1879, was that the
Revised Statutes, which it then ordered to be prepared, should
contain all laws of a general nature in force at the commencement of that session and"' not expressly repealed, nor repugnant to the provisions" of any act passed at that session, "and
continued in force by their own provisions." Rev. Stat. Missouri 1879,, ยง 3154. -It was further declared that "all acts or
parts of acts of a general nature, in force at the commencement
of the present session of the-general assembly, and not repealed,
shall be, and the same are hereby, continued in full force and
effect-- unless the same be repugnant to the acts passed or
revised at the present session." ยง 3161. It is not claimed
that the act of 1871 was repugnant to any act passed at the
session of 1879, when the revision was set on foot; and as it
had not then been "expressly repealed," it results that it was
continued in full force. And this seems to have been the view
of the legislature at a subsequent session; for by an act passed
March 24, 1885, after the judgment below, the act of March
10, 1871, was expressly repealed. We'perceive no.ground for
holding that the act of 1871 was repealed prior to the passage
of the abt of 1885.
Affirmed.
The judgment-is.

