SAN BERNARDINO CO. v. SOUTH. PAC. RAILROAD. 41T
Syllabus..
It follows that there is no occasion to determine under what
circumstances the plaintiffs would be entitled to judgment
against a delinquent tax-payer for penalties, interest, or attorney's fees; for, if the plaintiffs are not entitled to judgment
for the taxes arising out of the assessments in question, no
liability for penalties, interest, or attorney's fees, could result
from a refusal or failure to pay such taxes.

Judgment afirmed.
California v. Northern Railway Company. Error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of California.
The facts in this case are substantially those which appear in
County of Santa Clara, &c. v. Railroad Companies, just decided.
For the reasons given in the opinion in that case, and upon the
ground therein stated, the judgment is
Afirmed.

SAN BERNARDINO COUNTY v. SOUTHERIN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED STATES FOR THE.

DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Argued January 27, 28, 29, 188G.-Decided May 10, 1886.

This case differs from Santa Clara County v. Southern Pacific RailroadCompany, ante 394, only in this:-that after entry of judgment defendant below paid the taxes claimed under a stipulation that the payment should be"without prejudice to the right of the plaintiff in the case to proceed for
penalties, interest, and attorney's fees claimed.!' .eld that, as the plaintiff would not have been entitled to judgment for the taxes originally
claimed, it could not have judgment in its favor for penalty, interest, and.
attorney's fees.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. F. 0. l3frshall, Attorney General of California', for
plaintiff in error.
VOL. cxvm-27

OC.TOBER TERM, 1885.'
Opinion of the Court.

fMr. S, W. Sander8on, Mr. George, F. Emunde, and -r.
Williaim-X. Evarts for defendant in error.

:nM JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought in the Superior Court of San Bernardino, California, for the recovery of certain taxes, bounty
and State, alleged to be due from the Southern Pacific Railroad Company for the fiscal year of 1880-1881. The amount
claimed for county taxes is $8785.90; that claimed for State
taxes is $4608.99. For each sum judgment is asked, with five
per cent. penalty, interest on the taxes and penalty at the rate
Iof two per cent. per month from December 26, 1880, and costs
of advertising,
The complaint alleges that the taxes were duly assessed and
levied upon "forty-eight W% miles of the roadway, road-bed,
and rails of said defendant, assessed at ten thousand eight hundred dollars per mile;" upon its rolling-stock, "assessed at
nineteen hundred and thirty-three Wr dollars per mile;" and
upon its franchise, assessed at $2000 per mile. It also alleges
that the whole of the defendant's property, so far as its franchise, roadway, rails, road-bed, and rolling-stock in California
are concerned, was assessed for the period named at $10,483,518, the length of the defendant's road in the State being seven
hundred and eleven A miles.
An answer was filed similar to those in the cases of 27e
County of Santa Clara,&c. v. RailroadCompanies,just decided,
ante 394 . This case was removed to the Circuit Court of the
United States upon the same grounds as those presented in the
other cases.
The facts specially found by. that court are, in all material
respects, like those found in the formercases. The copy of the
assessment roll for San Bernardino County, introduced at the
trial below, is not, so far as it bears upon this case, materially
different from that for Fresno and Santa Clara Counties, set
forth in the report of the other cases.
For the reasons given in the opinions delivered in the Circuit Court in the former cases, reported as Santa Clara Rid-

SAN BERNARDINO CO. v. SOUTH. PAC. RAILROAD. 419
Opinion of the Court.

-

-toadTaxv Cases, 9 Sawyer, 165, 210, judgment was given for
the defendant.
But the bill of exceptions further states:
"That, after said judgment was ordered, the defendant, being minded to pay, notwithstanding the fact that the tax
had been declared invalid, the full amount of said tax due,.
without penalty, interest, or counsel fees, and to leave the question of its liability for said penalty, interest, and counsel fees
to be finally determined by the Supreme Court of the United
States in cases already pending there, crn in this case if appealed or taken there upon a writ of error, agreed, for the
purposes aforesaid, that the judgment in its favor might be set
aside and judgment in favor of the plaintiff be entered for the'
full amount of said tax, less penalties, interest, and counsel fees;
which -was done.
"And be it further remembered, that, before said judgment
for the defendant was set aside, and in open-court, it was stipulated and agreed by and between the 4ttorneys for the plaintiff and defendant, that if said judgment was- set aside and
judgment for the plaintiff entered as aforesaid, the said defendant should not be deemed to ihave admitted thereby the validity of the taxes claimed or any part thereof, nor should said
judgment be treated, upon an appeal or proceedings under
writ of error, as a'consent judgment; defendant then and there
expressly waiving that point, if point it was.
"And be it further remembered, that the object and purpose
of the proceeding then had was to enable the defendant to pay
into the State and county treasuries on account the sum for
which the judgment was rendered, without prejudice to the
right of the plaintiff in the case to proceed for penalties, interest, and attorney's fees claimed, and in order that the litigation
might be brought to a speedy conclusion.
"The plaintiff tenders this its bill of exceptions, which, being
agreed to by the respective attorneys for the parties, is allowed,
signed, sealed, and made a part of the record of the court."
The record also shows that in forty suits, heard with
this one, brought in the name of different counties, and
of the State, against the Southern Pacific Railrodd Company,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

the Central Pacific Railroad Company, and the Northern
Railway Company, to recover like taxes, alleged to be due
to counties and to the State, judgments were ordered for the
respective defendants; that thereafter a stipulation, signed by
the attorney of the several defendants in those cases and by
the attorney general of the State, was filed, in which it is recited that the defendants, "notwithstanding the fact that the
taxes therein sued for have been declared invalid, being minded
to pay portions of the sums claimed," agree that judgments in
favor of the plaintiffs might be entered for certain sums, being,
as we suppose, the amount of the taxes sued for in the respective actions, less the penalties, interest and counsel fees therein
claimed.
On the 8th of December, 1885, the following stipulation was
filed in the court below, and a printed copy thereof filed in this
case here:
"In the Circuit Court of the United States, Ninth Circuit, Dis
trict of California.
"The County of San Bernardino, Plaintiff,
vs.
- No. 2757.
"The Southern Pacific Railroad Company Defendant. )

"It is hereby stipulated, between the parties to the aboveentitled action, that for the fiscal year 1880-1881 the principal
of the tax claimed to be due by plaintiff from defendant for
State and county purposes amounted to $13,39,.88; that before judgment was entered herein in this court-from which
judgment a writ of error has been taken-there had been paid
on account of such taxes to the plaintiff herein, through its
county officers, the sum of $4932.40, leaving a balance due of
$8462.48, for which said sum judgment was taken.
"That for the fiscal year 1881-1882, the principal of the tax
claimed t6 be duc by plaintiff, The County of San Bernardino,
from defendant for State and county purposes, was $16,347.87;
that before judgment was entered in the action brought to recover such taxes, the defendant therein, The Southern Pacific
Railroad Company, paid to the plaintiff, through its county
officers, on account of such taxes, the sum of $6518.20, and
judgment was taken in said action for the balance, $9829.67.

SAN BERNARDINO CO. v. SOUTH. PAC. RAILROAD. 421
Opinion of the Court.

"That for the fiscal year 1882 the total amount claimed by
said county from defendant, The Southern Pacific Railroad
Company, for State and county purposes, was $9631.45; that
no payment had been made on account of said taxes, and judgment was, therefore, taken for the f/ill amount.
"That in the three actions brought to recover taxes claimed
to be due to the county of San Bernardino from the defendant
herein, the total amount claimed as principal of State and
county taxes, when the aforesaid judgments were entered, was
$27,923.60, which amount was, upon the rendition of said judgments, paid in full to the attorney general, attorney for plaintiff, and by him subsequently paid into the county treasury of
San Bernardino County, as directed by law, for the use and
benefit of the State and of the county, and that said payment,
together with the sums which had, prior thereto, been paid by
said defendant, The Southern Pacific Railroad Company, on account of said taxes, constituted payment in full of the principal
of all State and county taxes claimed to be due for the three
years aforesaid.
"(Signed)
E. C. MARSHALL,
A-t'y Genl. Cal. and Att'y for PrY
P. D

WIGGINGTON,

At'y for .Defendant."
As it appears that the taxes, for the recovery of which this
suit was brought, have, through the action of the attorney general of California, been received by the plaintiff for the use of
and benefit of itself and the State, the only question which remains to be determined is as to the defendant's liability for the
statutory penalty, interest, and attorney's fees. There is no
substantial difference, upon the facts, between this case and that
of the County of Santa Clarav. RailroadCornpanies,just deter-.
mined; for, in this case, as in the others, the assessment-upon
which the taxes sued for depend for their validity-improperly
included fences, erected upon the line between the railroad and
the lands of adjacent proprietors, at the rate of $300,per mile.
For the reasons given in the opinion in the other cases-which
are equally applicable here-that assessment must be held to

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Concurring Opinion: lield, J.

be insufficient as a basis for jjudgment against the company.
As upon this ground judgment might have boen rendered for
the defendant, it is unnecessary to consider other questions determined by the court below, and discussed by counsel who
appeared in this court.
The plaintiff not, then, being entitled to judgment for the taxes originally in question, and the parties having stipulated
that the judgment entered for the plaintiff, with the consent
of the defendant, should not b6 treated as an admission by the
latter of the validity of the taxes claimed, it follows that the
plaintiff cannot have judgment in its favor for penalty, interest,
and attorney's fees. Apart from every other view, the defendant could not be adjudged liable for penalty, interest, or attorney's fees for not paying taxes arising out of an invalid assessment, and which, under the law, were not collectible by suit.
Judgmern afflmnc.
MAR. XusiOc

FirLD, concurring.

I agree to the judgment of the court in this as also in the
other tax cases fromCalifornia. ButI regret that it has not
been deemed consist.ent with its duty to decide the important
constitutional questions involved, and particularly the one
which was so fully considered in the Circuit Court, and
elaborately argued here, that in the assessment, upon which
the taxes claimed were levied, an unlawful and unjust discrimination was made between the property of the defendant and
the propehty of individuals, to its. disadvantage, thus subjecting it to an unequal share of the public burdens, and to thlat
extent depriving it of the equal protection of the laws guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment of -the Constitution. At
the present day nearly all great enterprises are conducted by
corporations. Hardly af industry can be named that is not
in some way promoted by them, and a vast portion of the
wealth of the country is in their hands. It is, therefore, of
the greatest interest to them whether their property is subject
to the same rules of asessment and taxation as like property of natural persons, or. whether elements which affect the
valuation of property are to be 6mitted from consideration

SAN BERNARDINO CO. v. SOUTH. PAC. RAILROAD. 423
Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

when it is owned by them, and considered when it is owned
by natural persons; and thus the valuation of property be made
to vary, not according to its condition or use, but according to
its ownership. The question is not whether the State may
not claim for grants of privileges and franchises a fixed sum
per year, or a percentage of earnings of a corporation-that is
not controverted-but whether it may prescribe rules for the
valuation of property for taxation which will vary according
as it is held by individuals or by corporations. The question
is of transcendent importance, and it will come here and continue to come until it is authoritatively decided in harmony
with the great constitutional amendment which insures to
every person, whatever his position or association, the equal
protection of the laws; and that necessarily implies freedom
from the imposition of unequal burdens under the same conditions. Bar~er v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27, 31.
Much as I regret that the question could not now be decided,
I recognize fully the wisdom of the rule that the constitutionality of State legislation will not be considered by the court
unless by the case presented its consideration is imperatively
required. Although the objection, that in the assessment of
the roadway there was included property not appertaining to
it, was raised in the answer and taken on the trial, the point
was not discussed by counsel, as the constitutional questions
were deemed of far greater importance. The attention of the
court was specially directed to them, and thus the minor point
was left undetermined.
After judgment had been entered in favor of the defendant
on the ground that the assessment upon which the taxes
claimed were levied was illegal, it entered -into an agreement
with the attorney general of the State to allow the judgment
to be set aside and a judgment to be entered in favor of the
plaintiff for the face of the taxes claimed, and to leave the
question of its liability for the penalty, interest, and counsel
fees to be finally determined by the Supreme Court. It is
stated in the record 'that the object and purpose of the proceeding was "to enable the defendant to pay into the State
and county treasuries, on account, the sum for which the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Concurring Opinion: Field, J.

judgment was rendered, without prejudice to the right of the
plaintiff in the case to proceed for penalties, interest, and
attorney's fees claimed, and in order that the litigation might
be brought to a speedy conclusion." It is also suggested that
the same amount of taxes, if not recoverable when levied upon
the property, might under the Constitution be recovered in
another action when levied upon the mortgage.; and in that
event that the company could claim a credit from the mortgagees for the payment. The motives of the company in this
matter, however, do not affect the question of its liability for
the penalty; interest, and attorney's fees. -It was agreed
between the respective attorneys that, in consenting to the
judgment for the face of the taxes, the defendant should not
thereby be deemed to admit their validity, desiring, as it
would seem, to contest, on the ground of their alleged invalidity, the claim for the penalties, interest, and attorney's
fees. Judgment was accordingly entered for the plaintiff
for the face of the taxes claimed and the amount has beeii
paid.
•The arrangement was a wise and judicious one on the part
of the attorney-general, as it at once enabled the State and
county treasuries to have the amount of the taxes levied, and
to proceed for the penalties, interest, and attorney's fees. To
have refused such an advantageous arrangement might have
subjected him to just animadversion. Every right which the
State could under any circumstance have had'was fully guarded
by the agreement. No conceivable benefit could have arisen
to the .State by his refusing to accede to it, and, as it has
turned out from the decisions in the other cases, great inconvenience and loss would have followed.
The record shows that after the Circuit Court had announced
its decision in favor of the defendant and, different railway
companies in forty other cases, brought to recover alleged
delinquent taxes, they agreed to allow judgments to be entered
against them for portions of the sums claimed. It was admitted
by counsel on the argument'that these judgments, amounting
to several hundred thousand dollars, were for the face of the
taxes; and that any claim in the cases for penalties, interest,

