CANNON v. ilITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

error for want of jurisdiction, in order that the reported decision may not appear to be a precedent for the exercise of jurisdiction by this court in a case of the kind.
.Dims8edfor want of jursdietion.

CANNON v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
flecded May 10, 1886.

As the court had no jurisdiction in this case, 116 U. S. 55, and it was decided
at the present term, the judgment is vacated, the mandate recalled, and the
writ of error dismissed.

This case was argued on the 20th and 23d of November,
1885, and decided December 14, 1885. 116 U. S. 55. The
reasons for setting aside the judgment and dismissing the writ
of error are stated in the opinion of the court.
.Mf. FranklinS. Richardi8, one of the counsel for plaintiff in
error in Snow v. United tat, ante 346, was counsel for plaintiff in error in this case.
BLATCHPORD delivered the opinion of the court.
The decision in Snow v. United States, ante, p. 346, dismissing the writs of error for want of jurisdiction, shows that there
was no jurisdiction of the writ of error in this case. As the decision reported in 116 IT. S.55, was made at the present term,
the judgment rendered on the 14th of December, 1885, affirming the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Utah, is set aside and vacated; the mandate is recalled; and
T7ie w it of erroris dim&issed.

MR. 'usTIO

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

YICK WO v. HOPKINS, SHERIFF.
:EROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

WO LEE v. HOPKIS, SHERIFF.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

Submitted April 14, 1886.-Decided May 10, 1886.

In a suit brought to this court from a State court which involves the constitutionality of ordinances made by a municip-l corporation in the State, this
court will, when necessary, put its own independent construction upon the
ordinances.
A municipal ordinance to regulate the carrying on of public laundries within the
limits of the municipality violates the provisions of the Constitution of the
United States, if it confers upon the municipal authorities arbitrary power,
at their own will, and without regard to discretion in the legal sense of the
term, to give or withhold consent as to persons or places, without regard
to the competency of the persons applying, or the propriety of the place
selected, for the carrying on of the business.
An administration of a municipal ordinance for the carrying on of a lawful
business within the corporate limits violates the provisions of the Constitution of the United States, if it makes arbitrary and unjust discriminations,
founded on differences of race, between persons otherwise in similar circumstances.
The guarantees of protection contained in the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution extend to all persons within the territorial jurisdiction of the
United States, without regard to differences of race, of color, or of nationality.
Those subjects of the Emperor of China who have the right to temporarily or
permanently reside within the United States, are entitled to enjoy the protection guaranteed by the Constitution and afforded by the laws.

These two cases were argued as one and depended upon
precisely the same state-of facts; the first coming here upon a
writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of California,
the second on appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for that district.
The plaintiff in error, Yick Wo, on August 24, 1885, petitioned the Supreme Court of California for a writ of .habea8
co'yus, alleging that he was illegally deprived of his personal

