EVANS v. PIKE.
Syllabus.

open to neither of these objections.

Broughton v. Pensacola,

93 U. S. 266; Red Rock v. ermy, 106 U. S. 596; Hfobbs v.
.McLean, 117 U. S. 567, decided at the present term, and cases
there cited; United States v. Coombs, 12 Pet. 72. The construction contended for by the appellee preserves the good
faith of the government, and frees the act from the imputation
of impairing rights secured by the Constitution of the United
States.
In our view the construction of the second section of the act
of May 7, 1878, is plain, and not fairly open to controversy.
By the act of July 1, 1862, "all compensation for services rendered for the government" was to be applied to the payment
of the bonds issued by the United States to aid in building the
road. By the act of July 2, 1864, only "one-half of the compensation for services rendered for the government" by said
company was required to be applied to the payment of the
bonds. The act of May 7, 1878, merely restored the provisions
of the act of July 1, 1862, and again required all compensation
for services rendered the government to be applied to the payment of the bonds. This compensation, as we have seen, has
been limited by the decisions of this court to compensation for
services rendered by the aided roads. The construction of the
second section of the act of May 7, 1878, contended for by the
Judgment affirnmd..
appellee, is, therefore, right.

EVANS & Another v. PIKE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TR.
EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Argued April 22, 1886.-Decided May 10, 1886.

In Louisiana a gratuitous donee of land bought by the donor.on credit at a
sheriff's sale on execution, and still subject to the judgment and liable to
an executinn either on that judgment or on the bond given for the purchase
money, who is liable for the charges on the land but is not in poession,
is not entitled to the delay and formalities of the hypothecary action.
VOL. CXVIII-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Defendant in Error.
In Louisiana, as in the States where the common law prevails, a person having an interest in mortgaged premises sold under a foreclosure who was
not made a party to the proceedings, cannot obtain a judgment dispossessing the purchaser without redeeming or offering to redeem the property by
paying the mortgage debt; and the proper remedy in such case, for such
person suing in the courts of the United, States in that District, is by bill
in equity to redeem the property, and not by an action at law.
A charge to the jury which, though incorrect, does no injury to the excepting
party, is not sufficient ground for setting aside the judgment.

This was a petitory action in the nature of an. action of
ejectment at common law. The case is stated in the opinion
of the court. A former hearing of the cause is reported in
Pike v. Evans, 94 U. S. 6.
-Yr. Jrilliam, Grant, for plaintiffs in error, submitted on his
brief, in which were cited: .Robertv. Brown, 14 La. Ann. 597;
Ballio v. Poisset, 8 Martin N. S. 337; Smith. v..Moeicken, 3
La. Ann. 319 ; Ford v. -Douglas,5 How. 143 ; erackson v. Ludeling, 21 Wall. 616.
Xr. John A. Campbell, for defendant in error, cited: Stockton V. Downey, 6 La. Ann. 581; Xcnery v. Pargoud,10 La.
Ann. 497; Dufour v. Cainfranc, 11 Martin La. 607, 610;
Donaldson v. ]Rouzair, 8 Martin La. N. S. 162; IDearmond v.
Courtney, 12 La. Ann. 251; Taylor v. fluey, 11 La. Ann. 614;
Seawell v. Payne, 5 La. Ann. 255; Coiron, v. .2fillaudon, 3
La. Ann. 664; .AXulle'n v. Follain,12 La. Ann. 838; Fulton v.
.Fulton, 7 Rob. La. 73 ; Vright v. Bank of the United States,
7 La. Ann. 123; Nougui v. Claol, 101 U. S. 551; Grfth v.
Bogert, 18 Hlow. 158; Harding v. HVarding,4 Myl. & Cr.514;
Requa v. Rea, 2 Paige, 339; Wfood v. .fann, 3 Sumner, 318;
.A'iller v. Sherry, 2 Wall. 237; Clarkson v. ReaI, 15 Gratt.
288; Dr6uet v. Rice, 2 Rob. La. 374; Hoiroyd v. Wyatt, 2 Coilyer, 327; Proctorv. Farnam,5 Paige, 614; Campbell v. Holyland,7 Oh. D. 166; Barlow v. Osborne, 6 11. L. Cas. 556; Jeter
v. Hewitt, 22iHow. 352; Johnson v. Waters, ill U. S. 640;
Gillespie v. Cammack, 3 La. Ann. 248; Williams v. Close, 12
La. Ann. 873"; Conrad v. Patzelt,29 La. Ann. 465; Rowly v.
_empg'2 La. Ann. 360; Washburn v. Green, 13 La. Ann. 332.

EVANS v. PIKE.
Opinion of the Court.
B.ADLnY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a petitory suit brought by Marie P. Evans and her
husband, the plaintiffs in error, to recover a plantation of 1911
acres, called the Richland plantation, situated in the parish of
West Feliciana, near Baton Rouge, in the State of Louisiana.
The action was originally commenced against William S. Pike,
and is continued against his widow and heirs, the defendants
in error. The plaintiffs claim the property under a gratuitous
donation made by Ackley Perkins to his niece, the said Marie
P. Evans (then Marie Linton), by act of donation dated September 5, 1861. The title of the defendants is based on a
judgment of the second district court of West Feliciana,
rendered 18th February, 1859, for the sum of $16,890.25, with
interest, in favor of one Eliza C. Johnson, against J. & H.
Perkins, upon mortgage notes given by them for the purchase
of the plantation. An execution was issued on this judgment.
and the property failing to bring two-thirds of its appraised
value, it was sold on the 3d of August, 1861, on twelve
months' credit, pursuant to the Code of Practice of Louisiana;
and the said Ackley Perkins, a brother of the mortgagors,
became the purchaser, and to secure the payment of the purchase money he gave a twelve months' bond for $30,65.80,
with interest at ten per cent. per annum, with two sureties.
This bond contaned a declaration of mortgage on the property
sold, and an acknowledgment that it was to have the force of
a final judgment, but it was not recorded. This was about
one month prior to the donation made by Ackley Perkins to
thu plLintiff. The twelve months' bond not being paid, an execution was issued upon it on the 10th of October, 1865. and
under this execution the property was sold on the 6th of
January, 1866, and William S. Pike, one of the sureties of
Perkins on the bond, to protect himself, became the purchaser
for the sum of $46,725, received a deed from the sheriff, and
took immediate possession of the premises, and continued in
possession until the commencement of this suit in October,
1871, a period of five years and nine months; and he and his
heirs have been in possession ever since.
The' defendant, William S. Pike, amongst other things,

MR. JUSTICE

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

interposed-the plea of prescription of five years, under article
3543 of the Revised Civil Code, being a re-enactment of the
statute passed A[arch 10, 1834, which declares that "all informalities connected with, or growing out of, any public sale
made by any person authorized to sell at public auction, shall
be prescribed against by those claiming under such sale, after
the lapse of five years from the time of making it, whether
against minors, married women, or interdicted persons."
At the first trial of the cause, the plaintiffs undertook to
rebut this plea by showing that the sheriff did not actually
seize the property, and, the Circuit Court held that this defect"
was not one of the informalities cured by the prescription. On
writ of error from this court we held otherwise, and reversed
the' judgment. Pike v. Evans, 94 IT. S. 6. Of course, we
must have held that -the sheriff was authorized to sell the
property at public auction, for that is necessary in order to
mainthin the plea of prescription in such a case.
& second trial has since taken place, and it does not appear
by the record that any attempt was made to show a want of
seizure by the sheriff. His return to the writ of execution
shows that he did seize the property. The plea of prescription, however, was not withdrawn by the defendants, but was
still relied on; and the judge, besides charging the jury that
if Pike was in possession of the plantation for a period of five
years, and purchased the same from a person authorized to sell
at public auction, any informality connected with, or growing
out of, the sale was prescribed, went on to charge further, that,
under the texms of the decision of the Supreme Court in this
case, the prescription of five years, if proved, was decisive of
the controversy; operated as a bar to the plaintiffs' action, and
gave to the defendants a title by prescription against the
plaintiffs. To this 'instruction the plaintiffs excepted, and the
substantial ground of their exception was, that the prescription
of five years only cures defects and informalities in a sale, and
not defects in the title itself, which, according to the laws of
Louisiana, can only be cured by a prescription of ten years of
possession in good faith and under a just title.
But even if this objection were well founded, a question

EVANS v. PIKE.
Opinion of the Cour.

would still arise whether by the sheriff's sale William S.
Pike did not acquire a good title as against the plaintiffs? For,
if he did, prescription, except in reference to informalities of
the sale, was not necessary to his defence, and the charge could
not injure the plaintiffs. It is necessary, therefore, to examine
this question.
The objection made by the plaintiffs, to the title conferred by
the sheriff's sale is, that the plaintiff, Marie P. Evans, was not
made a party to the proceedings and not served with notice,
though donee of the property, and a third possessor.
The situation of the property at the time of the sale was as
follows: On the 18th of February, 1859, it became subject to
Eliza C. Johnson's judgment for purchase money. On the 3d of
August, 1861, by virtue of an execution on this judgment, it was
sold to Ackley Perkins on a credit of twelve months, and Perkins gave a twelve months' bond for the purchase money. This
sale was made in pursuance of a law of Louisiana which authorizes a sheriff to sell property on execution at twelve months'
credit if unable to sell it for cash at two-thirds of its appraised
value. La. Code Practice, Art. 680, 681. At such sale on credit,
the purchaser is required to furnish good and sufficient- joint
security and special mortgage on the property sold, bearing
interest at the same rate as the judgment. Art. 681. The
Code further provides that if the bond is not paid at maturity,
"the clerk who first issued the "orderof seizure shall, on the
'demand of the judgment creditor, or any other person interested, and on the bond being delivered to him, issue an execution for the amount, both against the purchaser and his surety,
in the same manner as on a final judgment; and this execution
shall be directed to the sheriff, to be carried into effect." Art.
719. "If the amount of the bond, with interest and costs, be
not paid to him on demand, it is the duty of the sheriff, under
this execution, to seize immediately the property of the purchaser, or of the surety, or both, te the amount of the debt
and costs, and to sell it for ready money." Art. 720.
The course thus prescribed was followed in the present case.
But the sale thus made on credit was not a satisfaction of
the judgment, which still remained in full force: for, if the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

bond was not paid at maturity (as it was not), execution
might be issued either on the judgment, or on the bond, at the
option of the judgment creditor.' The land still remained subject to the judgment. The execution on the bond had merely
this advantage, that it could be levied on the property of the
sureties as well as on that of the principal; but the property
for which the bond was given remained subject to the debt
and to the lien of the judgmrent. A sale of the land under an
execution issued on the judgment, or on the bond, would relate
back to the judgment for its force and effect. Trescott v.
Lewis, 11 La. Ann. 184; Bahlain v. .Tangeld, 16 La. Ann.
156, 157; Union Bank v. Stafo ', 12 How. 397, 339, 340. As
Ackley Perkins paid nothing on his purchase, but merely gave
the twelve months' bond, he could do nothing to defeat the
continued lien of the judgment. Though a purchaser from
him in possession might be entitled to be proceeded against by
a hypothecary action, a mere gratuitous donee would take the
property subject to all charges in the same manner as the donor
held it. Article 1551 of the Civil Code declares: "The property given passes to the donee with all its charges, even those
which the donor has imposed between the time of the donation
and that of the acceptance"; in other words, the donee takes
cum onere, and undoubtedly with implied notice. This was
manifested in the present case by the conduct of the parties at
the time of passing the act of donation, which declares that
they "dispensed with the production of a certificate from the
recorder of the parish as is required by article 3328 of the Civil
Code." This means that the donee accepted the property at
her own risk, subject to all charges thereon, and amounted to
a voluntary assumption by her of those charges, so far as they
were specific and not general liens.
It is the general law, it is true, that a third possessor of
hypothecated property must be proceeded against by the
•hypothecary action, which requires thirty days' demand of the
principal debtor, and- ten days' subsequent notice to the third
possessor to pay the debt or give up the property. Article 68
of the Code of Practice declares that "if the hypothecated
property be neither in the possession of his debtor nor of his

EVANS v. PIKE.
Opinion of the Court.

heirs, but in that of a third person, the creditor has his action
against that person, in order to compel him either to give up
the property or to pay the amount for which it stands hypothecated." And this is the ordinary rule as to third possessors,
whether the hypothecation be by act of mortgage or in any
other form. A judgment creditor, whose claim bears against a
piece of property transferred to a third party who does not
assume to pay the judgment, must proceed by hypothecary action. XMh .ey v. Feich,24 La. Ann. 28. But where the vendee
assumes the'pament of -a mortgage as a part of thepurchase
price, the mortgagee my proceed against the mortgagor
without reference to the sale made by him. P6re v. Goldman,
on appeal by Sell, the third possessor, Louque's Dig. 442, pl. 9.
A purchaser of property subject to a mortgage debt, who
promises, or is personally liable, to pay the debt, is held not to
be a third possessor, entitled to the demand and notice requisite in a hypothecary action. Duncan v. Elam, 1 Rob. La.
135; Boi. sac v. Downs, 16 La. Ann. 187.
From these authorities we infer th. rule to be, that a gratuitous donee, even when in possession, being liable for the
charges on the land, is not entitled to the delay and formalities
of the hypothecary action. But, if this be not true in all cases,
we think it must be true in a case like the present, where the
party is not in possession, and has accepted a donation of land
from a person who bought it on credit, the land being still
subject to the judgment under which it was sold, and liable to
an execution either on such judgment or on the bond given for
purchase money.
In this case the plaintiffs were not in possession. As we
understand the record, no change of possession took place at
the time of the donation; but the plaintiff Marie, the donee,
went immediately abroad, out of the country, and Ackley
Perkins remained in possession until the sale to William S.
Pike, in January, 1866, under the execution on the twelve
months' bond. Mrs. Johnson, the judgment creditor, not receiving any fruit of her judgment, finds herself, at the close of
the war, obliged to resell the property. She finds no one in
possession but Ackley Perkins. She follows the directions of
-

I

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court

the Code, and an execution is issued on the twelve months'
bond. William S. Pike is obliged to purchase the property
to protect himself as surety on the bond. Under these circumstances, there is certainly no strong equity in favor of the plaintiff's claim. She never paid a cent for the property; her donor
never paid a cent for it; the judgment remains unpaid; the
surety is obliged to buy to save himself; and now the plaintiff,
after nearly six years have passed away, seeks to deprive Pike
of, possession, without offering to reimburse him for what he
has paid (or bound himself to pay) to relieve the property from
the incumbrance resting upon it, and to satisfy the debts of
the plaintiff's donor, and of the parties against whom the judgment was originally rendered. There could not well be a case
more destitute of equity.
Suppose the plaintiffs were entitled to notice of the application for executory process, or to some formality in lieu of notice, does that make the sale so absolutely void, that she can
recover the property without restoring, or offering to restore,
to Pike or his heirs, what he has paid?
-1 the English system, followed in most of the States, a
person having an interest in mortgaged premises sold under a
foreclosure, and not made a party to the proceedings, merely
retains his equity of redemption, that is, a right to redeem the
property by paying the amount due on the mortgage. He
cannot turn the purchaser out of possession, without redeeming, or offering to redeem, the property by paying the mortgage debt. This rule is founded in such manifest justice that
we should be surprised not to find it in some form in a system
of law drawn from the same source as that of English equity.
An examination of the Louisiana decisions shows that we are
not mistaken in our anticipations.
In Dufour v. Camfranc, 11 Martin, 607, 615, the plaintiff
claimed title to certain slaves; the defendant pleaded that he
had purchased them at sheriff's sale upon an execution issued
on a judgment against the heirs of one Dufour, and that plaintiff was one of those heirs. It was repliedi amongst other
things, that the judgment was null, because plaintiff was not
cited. The court said: "Another question still presents itself.

EVANS v. PIKE.
Opinion of the Court.

It has been proved that the proceeds arising from the sale of
the slaves were applied to the discharge of the judgment debts
of the plaintiff, and the court is of opinion that he cannot recover in this suit until he repay the money." "Nothing could
be more unjust than to permit a debtor to recover back his
property, because the sale was irregular, and yet allow him to
profit by that irregular sale to discharge his debts."
In Donald o v. Rouzan, 8 Martin, N. S. 162, the court said:
"The judge below thought the sheriff's deid, without a judgment, did not pass the right of the defendant in execution to
the purchaser, and in that opinion we concur. But he thought
that, as the purchase money had been applied to the benefit of
the estate of the plaintiff's testator, she ought not to recover
the lot, without returning the price paid for it. In the view
taken by the judge below we also concur;" and the judgment
was affirmed.
In Stockton v. Downey, 6 La. Ann. 581, which was a suit to
recover property sold under executory process, the court say:
"We do not think that judicial sales ought to be disturbed,
unless at the instance of a party who has a right to sue for their
rescission or nullity, and who can show an injury resulting to
him from the sale, as wdll as an interest in the result of the
suit, and without a previous proffer of full indemnity to the
bon~ftde parties, whose interests are to be affected 'by the judgment." The sale was sustained.
In Taylor v. Hfuey, 11 La. Ann. 614, which Was a petitory
action for a tract of land, the plaintiff claimed under a deed
from one Fountain, dated in August, 1846, but not recorded
Until May, 1847; the defendant claimed under a sheriff's sale
made in January, 1847, and deed recorded in February, 1847;
the sale being made by virtue of executory process issued upon
an act of mortgage executed by Fountain in December, 1845,
and recorded November, 1846, after the execution of the deed
from Fountain to Taylor. The court conoludes its judgment
as follows: "But conceding that Taylor could be heard to impeach the title of Huey thus acquired, he has not laid a foundation for doing so by the allegations of his petition. He has
made no tender to the defendant of the mortgage debt which

