UNITED STATES v. CENTRAL PACIFIC R. R. CO. 235
Syllabus.

"In the Supreme
of Idaho T'y, Sept. term, 1882.
United States, pl. &. ap, vs. John Hailey, adm'r, defendant and
respondent. Exceptions to decision of Supreme Court, Idaho
T'y. Filed Dec. 16th, 1882. A. L. Richardson, clerk."
.r.

Solicitor General for appellant.

No appearance for appellee.
m. CHiEF JuSnICE WArrE delivered the opinion of the court.
This case has been docketed here as an appeal from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Idaho, but, on looking into the
transcript, we find that the suilt was at law and the trial by a
jury. Under such circumstances the only proper way of bring.
ing it here for review would have been by writ of error.
Stringfellow v. Cain, 99 U. S. 610 ; United States v. Railroad
Co. 105 U. S. 263; Hecht v. Bo hgton, 105 U. S. 235; *oolf
v. Hamilton, 108 U. S. 15. In point of fact, however, there
has been neither a writ of error, nor an appeal, nor a citation,
nor an appearance by the defendant or respondent. It is clear,
therefore, we have no jurisdiction, and the case is

UNITED STATES v. CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Argued April 29, 1886.-Decided May 10, 1886.

The act of July, 1, 1862, "to aid in the construction of a railroad and telegraph line from the Missouri River to the Pacific Ocean," 12 Stat. 489, and
the act of July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. 856, amending the same, and the act of
May 7, 1878, 20 Stat. 56, commonly called the Thurman act, are impari
materia and to be construed together ; and so construed the act of May 7,
1868, restores provisions of the act of 1862 respecting retention of compensation for services performed by the railroads for the United States

236

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Op*uion of the Court.

which had been changed by the amendment of 1864, and requires the
Treasury to withhold all payment for services performed on the roads constructed by the aid of government grants, but not on roads owned or
operated by the same companies which were not constructed with such aid.
When a contraet is open to two constructions, the one lawful and the other
unlawful, the former must be adopted. Hobbs v. XcLean, 117 U. S. 567,
affirmed.
M1r. Solicitor

General for appellant.

_Mr.MJohn F. Dillon and XrI. Joseph E. .facDonald for appellee.
WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellee, the Central Pacific Railroad Company, brought
this suit, in the. Court of Claims, against the United States, to
recover compensation for services rendered the United States
in transporting persons and freight over those parts of its railroad in the building of which it had not been aided by the
government. 'The United States demurred to the petition on
the ground that it did not allege facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action. The demurrer was overruled and judgment
rendered in favor of the claimant for the sum demanded.
From that judgment the United States have brought this
appeal.
The appellee alleges in its petition that it was originally incorporated on June 28, 1861, under the laws of the State of
California; that, with the aid of the grant of lands in alternate sections; and of bonds of the United States issued to it
under the acts of Congress approved July 1, 1862, and July 2,
1864, it built, either directly or indirectly, and became the
owner of, eight hundred and sixty-five miles and sixty-six hundredths of a mile of railroad. In addition to this line of road,
the construction of which was so aided by the United States,
the appellee, during the period covered by the petition, controlled and used 383.61 miles of railroad, acquired by consolidation with other companies, and 1791.35 miles of railroad
leased by it from other companies, making 2175.02 miles, all of
which had been Constructed without any aid from the United
MRn. JUSTICE

UNITED STATES v. CENTRAL PACIFIC R. R. CO. 237
Opinion of the Court.
States under the said .acts of Congress. The petition demanded pay for service of transportation rendered the United
States-over the 2175.02 miles of railroad which had been so
constructed without their aid.
The contention of the United States was -that they were
justified in withholding the compensation sued. for, by virtue of
the provisions of ยง 2 of the act of May 7, 1878, ch. 96, 20 Stat.
56, commonly known as the Thurman act. We do not think
this contention is well founded.
The act of July 1, 1862, ch. 120, 12 Stat. 489, was passed
"to aid," so the title declared, "in the construction of a rail-.
road and telegraph line from the Missouri River to the Pacific
Ocean, and to secure to the government the use of the same
for postal, military, and other purposes." The act of July 2,
1864, ch. 216, 13 Stat. 856, was an amendment to the act of July
1, 1862. By these *acts certain railroad companies were aided
in the construction of their roads. Among them was the appelled, which built the 865:66 miles above mentioned. It was
aided in the construction of this part of its roads by an issue
of bonds made to it by authority of the acts of July 1, 1862,
and July 2, 1864. The act of July 1, 1862, made the following provisions .to secure the payment of the principal and interest of the bonds so issued;
"Sec. 5. . . . The issue of said bonds and delivery to
the company shall '.psofacto constitute a first mortgage on the
whole line of the railroad and telegraph," etc.
"See, 6. The grants aforesaid are made upon condition that
said company shall pay said bonds at maturity, and shall keep
said railroad and telegraph line in repair and use, and shall at
all times. transmit despatches over said telegraph line, and
transport mails, troops, and munitions of war, supplies and
public stores upon said railroad, for the government, whenever
required to do so by any department thereof, and the government shall at all times have the preference in the use of the
same for all the purposes aforesaid; . . . and all compensation for services rendered for the government shall be applied to the payment of said bonds and interest, until the
whole amount is fully paid; . . . and after said road is corn-

OCTOBER TERMI,

1885.

Opinion of the Court.

pleted, until said bonds and interest are paid, at least five per
centum of the net earnings of said road shall also be annually
applied to the payment thereof."
By the act of July 2, 1864, it was provided as follows:
"Sec. 5. . . Only one-half of the compensation for services rendered for the government by said companies shall be
required to be applied to the payment of the bonds issued by
the government in aid of the construction of said roads."
These sections, taken together, constitute the contract between the United States and the appellee. United States v.
Union Pacif RailroadCo., 91 U. S. 72; Sinking Fund Ca8es,
99 U. S. 700, 718; Union Pacific Railroad Co. v. United State8,
104 U. S. 662. This contract is binding on the United States,
and they cannot, without the consent of the company, change
its terms by any subsequent legislation. SiNking Fund Ca8es,
Ubi 8upra.

These provisions of the statute law of the United States being
still in force, Congress passed the act of May 7, 1878, being the
Thurman act, above referred to. The. preamble of this act
mentions by name the companies which had been aided by
bonds of the United States under the acts of July 1, 1862, and
July 2, 1864. The first section declares how the net earnings
referred to in those acts shall be ascertained, and the second
section provides as follows:
"That the whole amount of compensation which may, from
time to time, be due to said several railroad companies respectively for services rendered for the government, shall be retained
by the United States, one-half thereof to 'be presently applied
to the liquidation of the interest paid and to be paid by the
United States upon the bonds so issued by it as aforesaid, to
each of said corporations severally, and the other half thereof
to be turned into the sinking fund hereinafter provided, for the
uses therein mentioned."
The case turns on the true interpretation of this section, the
appellants contending that it authorized them to retain compensation earned for transportation over all the roads owned
or leased by the appellee, whether the construction of such
roads had been aided by the issue of government bonds or not,

UNITED STATES v. CENTRAL PACIFIC R. R. CO. 239
Opinion of the Court.
and the appellee contending that the compensation referred to
was that earned by transportation over that part only of its
lines which had been assisted by the government subsidy.
The acts of July 1, 1862, July 2, 1864, and May 7, 1878, all
relate to the same subject. The latter act is declared by its
title to be amendatory of the first two, and its Ipst section provides that each and every of its provisions shall be "held as in
alteration and amendment" of the two acts first mentioned.
The three acts are, therefore, to be construed together as one
act, and one part to be interpreted by another. United State&
v. Freeman,3 How. 556, 564; Crespigny v. Tittenoom, 4 T. IC
-790, 793; Commonwealth v. Slack, 19 Pick. 304.
One of the provisions of the act of July 1, 1862, closely allied
to the one under consideration, was construed by this court in
the case of United States v. Eansa,9Pacifle Pailway Co., 99 U. S.
455. The Kansas Pacific Railway Company was one of the
companies to which the United States issued bonds in aid of the
constructiou of its road under the act just mentioned. A ssisted
by this issue of bonds, it had built 3931 miles of road. It
afterwards built 245 miles without aid from the government..,
The United States brought suit against the company to recover
the five per cent. of net earnings, to be applied to the payment
of the bonds and interest, as provided by ยง 6 of the act of 1862.
One of the conti,- ersies in the case was whether the government was entitled to the five per cent. net earnings on that
part of the road which had been built without government aid.
This court decided that it was not. Speaking by Mr. Justice
Bradley it said: "We are of opinion
that the subsidy
bonds granted to the company, being granted only in respect
of the original road, . . . are a lien on that portion only,
and that the five per cent. of the net earnings is only demandable on the net earnings of said portion." With this decision in
view, it would be impossible to hold with any show of reason
that the compensation for services rendered the United States,
which by the same section was required to be applied to the
payment of the same bonds, included compensation for services
rendered by a road the construction of which had not been
aided by the issue to the company of government bonds.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

In the case of li'ited States v. Denver _Paczo Bailway Co.,
99 U. S. 460, decided at the same term, and in which the judgment was delivered by the same justice, it was held that the
United States had no right, under the sixth section of the act
of 1862, to retain compensation for services rendered upon a
road, the construction of which it had not aided by its bonds.
The ground upon which the court placed its decision was that
the government had no lien except upon a road which it had so
aided, and could retain neither the five per cent. of the earnings
of a road to which-it had issued no bonds, nor compensation
for transportation services thereon.
This court having thus interpreted the act of July 1, 1862,
we cannot, consistently with the established rules of construction, give a different meaning to substantially the same words
in the act of May 7, 1878. leeiche v. Snythe, 13 Wall. 162.
In the act of July 1, 1862, the provision is, that "'all compensation for services rendered for the government shall be applied to the payment of said bonds." In the act of May 7,
1878, the words are, that "the whole amount of compensation
for services rendered for the government shall be retained by the United States," one half to pay interest and the
other half to be turned into the sinking fund. If the two acts
are to be construed together and as one act, we must give the
same meaning to like expressions in both. We cannot say in
one case that the compensation mentioned means compensation
only for services on aided roads, and in the other that it includes compensation for services on roads not aided.
There is another view of this controversy which seems to us
conclusive. As the contract between the United States and
the railroad company contained in the acts of July 1, 1862, and
of July 2, 1864, has been interpreted by this court to authorize
the retention by the government of compensation for services
only on those roads which the United States aided in building,
the construction which the appellants seek to put on the second section of the act of May 8, 1818, would not only render
that section a breach of faith on the part of the United States,
but an invasion of the constitutional rights of the appellee.
We are bound, if possible, so to construe the law as to lay it

