655

WHfITNEY v BUTLER.
Syllabus.

On the whole, we are constrained to conclude that the defences at law and the alleged ground of relief in equity are alike
insufficient, and that the judgment and the decree.of the Circuit
Court must be

Affired.
Mills v. Butler, Receiver. Taunton Savings Bank v. Butler,
Receiver. Charlestown Five-Cent Savings Bank v. Butler,
Receiver. Morrison v. Butler, Receiver. Appeals from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Massachusetts.
Mills v. Butler, Receiver. Taunton Savings Bank v. Butler, Receiver. Charlestown Five-Cent Savings Bank v. Butler, Receiver.
Iorrison v. Butler, Receiver. In error to the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Massachusetts. The cases
in which Harvey Mills, The Taunton Savings Bank, The Charlestown Five-Cent Savings Bank, and Charles E. Morrison are respectively appellants and plaintiffs in error v. Peter Butler, Receiver of the Pacific National Bank of Boston, depend upon the
same facts, and are governed by the decisions in the cases
wherein John P. Delano is appellant and plaintiff in error against
the same defendant. The judgments and decrees in thcse cases,
respectively, are, consequently, also
Affirmed.

.Mr. George _F Hoar and Xltr. Benjamin 1K ffohnson, for
plaintiffs in error and appellees.
Air. A. A. .Ranney, for defendant in error and appellee.

WHITNEY and Others, Executors, v. BUTLER, Receiver.
ERROR TO

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSE7I7S.
Argued October 12, 1586.-Deeded November 1, 1S6.

A, an owner of shares in the capital stock of a national bank, employed a
broker and auctioneer to sell them by public auction. They were bid off
by B, wlo paid the auctioneer for them, and received from him the certificate of stock, with a powet of attorney for transfer duly executed in

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.
blank. The auctioneer paid the purchase-money to A. B was employed
by the president of the bank to make this purchase for a customer of the
bank, who had made a deposit in the bank for the purpose, and he delivered
the certificate and the power of attorney to the president, and received
from the bank the money for the purchase. No formal transfer of the stock
was made on the transfer-book. of the bank. Shortly afterwards the
bank became insolvent, and eventually went into the hands of a receiver,
who made an assessment on the stockholders under the provisions of Rev.
Stat. § 5205,. to make up the deficiency in the capital. Until after the stoppage A had no knowledge as to the purchaser, or as to the neglect to
formally transfer the stock, and no reason to suppose that the transfer
had not been made. In an action against A, by the receiver, to recover tho
amount of the assessment upon, his said stock, Held: That the responsibility
of A ceased upon the surrender of the certificates to the bank, and the delivery to its president of a power of attorney sufficient to effect, and intended to effect, as the president knew, a transfer of the stock on the books
of the bank.

This, like the case last reported, was an action at law by the
receiver of the Pacific National Bank of Boston against an
alleged stockholder in that bank, to recover an assessment on
his stock. The facts in relation to the failure of the bank and
the imposition of the assessment by the receiver are the same
as, those reported in the last case. The material facts upon
which the defendant relied to escape liability under the assessment were contained in the "Agreed facts" set forth or referred to in the opinion of the court.
3fr. E. R. llkoar, for plaintiffs in error.

"Xr.A. A. Panney, for defendant in error.
HARLA. delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiffs in error are the personal representatives of
Leonard Whitney, who, at the time of his death, held two
certificates for fifty shares each of the capital stock of the
Pacific National Bank of Boston. That bank suspended on
November 18, 1881, and from that date until March 18, 1882,
was in charge of an examiner of national baeiks. On the day
last named, with the permission of the Comptroller of the Cur:rency, it resumed business, and so continued until May 20,

MR. JUSTIcE

WHITNEY v. BUTLER,
Opinion of the Court.

1882, when it failed, and was placed by that officer in the
hands of a receiver to be wound up. At the time the receiver
took possession, as well as when this action was brought,
March 14, 1883, the above shares of stock stood in the name
of Whitney on the books of the bank.
This suit was brought against the executors of Whitney,
pursuant to the orders of the Comptroller of the Currency.
It is based upon those provisions of the statute whi6h declare
that the shareholders of national banking associations shall-be
individually responsible, equally and ratably, and not one for
another, for all contracts, debts, and engagements, to the extent or amount of their stock therein, at the par value thereof,
in addition to the amount invested in such shares; and that
estates and funds in the hands of executors of persons holding
stock shall be liable, in like manner and to the same extent, as
the testator would have been if living. Rev. Stat., §§ 5151,
5152. The assessment by the Comptroller upon shareholders
to meet the bank's debts was for the full amount authorized
by the statute.
The defendants insist that they were not shareholders of the
bank, and did not hold, nor were entitled to hold, any certificates of shares of its capital stock, either at the date of its suspension, or when the receiver was appointed, or when the
assessment was made by the Comptroller. This defence was
overruled, and the executors of Whitney were adjudged to be
liable, the circuit judge observing: "This being a suit brought
by the receiver, who represents the creditors, and it appearing
that the stock was not transferred on the books of the company, as provided by the by-laws, we think the defendants
liable."
The question before the court is whether, under the statute
and the facts specially found, the defendants were liable to be
assessed for the contracts, debts, and engagements of the bank.
The statute declares that the capital stock of a national bank
shall be transferable on its books in such manner as may be
prescribed in the by-laws or articles of the association-every
person becoming a shareholder by such transfer..succeeding, in
proportion to his shares, to all the rights and liabilities of the
VOL. cxvM-4

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

prior holder. Rev. Stat. § 5189. The by-laws of this bank provide that-its stock should be assignable only on its books, subject to the restrictions and provisions of the statute; that a
transfer-book be kept, in which all assignments and transfers
of stock should be made; that each certificate should state
upon its face that the stock is transferable only on the books
of the bank; and that when a transfer is made the certificate
shall bereturned and cancelled, and a new one issued. Whether
these by-laws were so far complied with as to release the defendants as executors from the liability imposed by statute
depends upon the effect to be given to certain acts of the executors and of the president of the bank, in connection with the
sale of the stock standing in Whitney's name.
It, appears from the special finding of facts that Abner
Coburn, of Maine, desiring to buy two hundred and fifty
shares of the stock of this bank, made a special deposit in it of
$25,000 to be applied for that purpose. This fact appears
from a letter addressed to him by Benyon, the president of the
bank, under date of September 21, 1881, in which the latter
said: "Yours of 20th received, with check $25,000, which we
will use pending the purchase of our stock, and will hold on
your account, as a special deposit, securities to the same
amount, till we succeed in making the purchase. This leaves
the amount in your control until invested, and, I trust, will be
satisfactory to. you." That the stock might be obtained, Benyon secured the services of one Eager, who had a deposit
account with the bank; and that the latter might have money
with which to buy the stock, Benyon placed to his credit, as a
temporary loan, out of the funds of the bank, the exact amount
required for the purchase.
On November 8, 1881, the defendants-having no reason
whatever to believe that the bank was insolvent, or was about
to become so; on the contrary, believing it to be solvent, and
having no information as to Coburn's order-placed the certificates held by them in the hands of Day & Co., brokers, with
directions to sell the stock. They also placed in their hands a
power of attorney in the form usually adopted for transfers of
stock. It was blank as to the names of the attorney and the

WHITNEY v. BUTLER.
Opinion of the Court.

purchaser, but was signed by the executors and duly witnessed.
It was in these words: "Know all men by these presents, that,
for value received, we, the executors of the estate of Leonard.
Whitneyof Watertown, do hereby make, constitute, and ap, true and. lawful attorney (with
point, irrevocably,
power of substitution), for and in our name and our behalf to
- one hundred shares, now
sell, assign, and transfer unto
standing in the name of L. Whitney, of Watertown, Mass., in
the capital stock of the Pacific National Bank; and said attorney is hereby fully empowered to make and pass all necessary acts for the said assignment and transfer. Witness our
hands and seals." To that power of attorney was appended
the following: "For value received, I appoint, irrevocably,
as my substitute, with all the powers above given to
, 187-.
hand and seal,
me. Witness
[Seal.]" The other papers were the two certificates
of stock and the certificate from the proper Probate Court,
showing the appointment and qualification of the defendants
as executors. Each stock certificate contained the following
words: "Transferable only on the -books of the said bank, in
person or by attorney, on surrender of this certificate."
On November 12, 1881, Day & Co. offered the stock for sale
at public auction, and the same was, at Benyon's request,
bought by Eager at the sum of $10,400. Three days thereafter, November 15, 1881, Eager offered to the brokers in payment for the stock his check on the Pacific National Bank.
The bank at which the brokers did business declined to take
that check in its deposit account. Benyon being informed of
that fact, substituted for the check of Eager a cashier's check
on another bank, which last check being paid, Day & Co.,
with the knowledge of Eager, delivered to Benyon, the president of the bank, the foregoing certificates of stock,.with the
power of attorney, the certificate from the Probate Court, and
other papers-he thereafter holding the same "as purporting
to be security for, and as representing said loan, awaiting the
filling of Coburn's order, with the design then to "fiave the
stock transferred to him as soon as his order had been filled."
On the 16th of November the defendants received from the

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of- the Court.

brokers the proceeds of the sale of the Whitney stock. Benyon obtained only fifty additional shares, for the purpose of
filling the order of Coburn. All this happened before the
bank suspended on November 18, 1881.
,The executors of Whitney did not know by whom the stock
was bought at the auction sale, unless the knowledge of the
brokers is to be imputed to them. Believing, in good faith, and
having no reason to doubt, that the purchaser had caused the
transfer to be made, neither they nor the brokers took steps to
ascertain whether it had, in fact, been done.
They had no knowledge or information until after the
appointment of the receiver as to the purpose for which either Benyon or Eager held the before-mentioned papers or the
stock.
While the bank did not purchase nor intend to purchase the
stock for itself, its president, in execution of Coburn's order)
procured Eager to buy this stock with funds furnished him for
that purpose. Coburn did not take it; and the receiver, after
he took possession, found the before-mentioned papers in an
envelope, purporting to represent a secnrity for a demand loan
to-Benyon.
We do not think that the question arising upon these facts
is concluded by any of the cases cited in the opinion of the
circuit judge,* or in those cited in the brief for the receiver.t
In nearly all of them, where the issue was between the receiver, representing the creditors, arid the person standing on
the register of the bank as a shareholder, it is said, generally,
that the creditors of a national bank are entitled to know who,
as shareholders, have pledged their individual liability as security for its debts, engagements, and contracts; that if a person
permiMt his name to appear and -emain in its outstanding cer-

tificates of stock, and on its register, as a shareholder, he is
Note
N
by the Court.-Davisv. Society of Essex, 44 Conn. 582; AdderZy v.
Storm, 6 Hill, 624; Anderson v. PhiladelphiaWarehouse Jo., 111 U.°S. 479,
483; Johnston v. Laflin, 103 U. S. 800, 804; Turnbull v. Payson, 95 U. S.
418; Brown v. Adams, 5 Bissell, 181.
ft ote by the Court.-Davi8s v. Stevens, 17 Blatch. 259; Irons V. .Ma,.f.
Brown Nat. Bk. Cas. 146.
Nat. Bk., 27 Fed. Rep. 591; BowdeMl v. Nat. .BL,

WHITNEY v. BUTLER.
Opinion of. the Court.
estopped, as between himself and the creditors of the bank, to
deny that he is a shareholder ;. and that his individual liability
continues until there is a transfer of the stock on the books of
the bank, even where he has in good faith previously sold it
and delivered to the buyer the certificate of stock, with a
power of attorney in such form as to enable the transfer to be
made;-. Some of the cases hold that the seller is liable as a
shareholder even where the buyer agreed to have the transfer
made on the books of the bank, but fraudulently or negligently
failed to do so. But it will be found, upon careful examination, that in no one of. the cases in which these general principles have been announced, as between creditors and shareholders, does it appear that the precaution was taken, after the sale
of th, stock, to surrender the certificates therefor to the bank
itself, accompanied (where such surrender was not Iy the
sharclholer in person) by a power of attorney, which would
enable its officers to make the transfer on the register. The
position of the seller, in such case, is analogous to that of a
grantor of a deed deposited in the proper office to be recorded.
The general rule is, that the deed is considered as recorded
from the time of such deposit. 2 Washburn on Real Prop.,
B.. 3, eh. 4, par. 52. Where the seller delivers the stock cer-.
tificate and power of attorney to the buyer, relying upon the
promise of the latter to have the necessary transfer made, or
where the certificate and power of attorney are delivered to the
bank without communicating to its officers the name of the
buyer, the seller may well be held liable as a shareholder until,
at least, he shall have done all that he reasonably can do .to
effect a transfer on the stock register.
In the case before us the personal presence of the defendants
at the bank was not required in order to secure their release
from liability as shareholders. Besides, the certificates of stock
authorized them to act by attorney. Through their agents,
the brokers, who sold the stock, and through whom they received the money' paid for it, they surrendered the certificates
and power of attorney to the president of the bank, he receiving them, with knowledge not only that defendants had parted
with all title to the stock and had been paid for it, but, also,

CTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

that it had been purchased at public auction by Eager. He
knew equally well that the surrender of the certificates and
the delivery of the power of attorney and the certificate from
the Probate Court could only have been for the purpose of
having it appear, by means of a transfer on the books of the
bank, that Whitney's executors were no longer shareholders.
The right to have the transfer made, and thereby secure exemption from further responsibility, was secured to the defendants both by the statute and by the by-laws of -the bank.
They did all that wag required by either as preliminary to
such transfer. Nothing remained to be done except for some
officer of the bank to make the necessary formal entries on its
books. If, when the agents of defendants delivered the certificates and power of attorney to the president of the bank, the
latter had given any intimation of a purpose not to make the
transfer promptly, or had avowed an intention to postpone
action until a sufficient amount of stock was obtained to fill
Coburn's order, it may be that the failure of the defendants to
take legal steps to compel a transfer would, in favor of the
creditors of the bank, have been deemed a waiver of the right
to an immediate transfer on the stock register. But no such
intimation was given; no such avowal was made. No objection -was made to the power of attorney, or to the discharge
of the defendants from liability. So far as the record shows,
nothing was said or done by the bapk's officers to raise a doubt
in the minds of the defendants' agents that the transfer would
be made at once.
It was suggested in argument that the defendants should
have seen that the transfer was made. But we were not told
precisely what ought to have been done to this end that was
not done by them and their agents. Had anything occurred
that would have justified the defendants in believing, or even
in suspecting, that the transfer had not been promptly made
on the books of the bank, they would, perhaps, have been
wanting in due diligence had they not, by inspection of the
bank's stock register, ascertained whether the proper transfer
had in fact been made. But there was nothing to justify such
a belief or to excite such a suspicion. Their conduct was

