CADMAN v. PETER.
Statement of Facts.

CADMAN v. PETER.
.PPEAL

FRM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF MCHIGAN.
Argued April 13, 14, 1886.-Decided April 26, 1886.

If a deed of land is in fee, with a covenant of warranty, and there is no defeasance, either in the conveyance or in a collateral paper, parol evidence
that it was intended to secure*a debt and to operate only as a mortgage,
must be clear, unequivocal and convincing, or the presumption that the
instrument is what it purports to be must prevail.

On the 25th of October, 1875, by a warranty deed, dated
and acknowledged on that day, Charles C. Cadman and his
wife, of Detroit, Michigan, conveyed to William Peter, of Toledo, Ohio, in fee, land in Newaygo county, Michigan, amounting to 8 sections, or 5400 acres, the consideration named in
the deed being $20,000. On the same day, by a mortgage
dated and acknowledged on that day, Peter mortgaged the
same land to Cadman, to secure the yayment to Cadman of
$10,000 in four months, and $10,000 in six months, from that
date, with interest at 8 per cent., according to four promissory
notes of $5000 each, of that date, executed by Peter to Cadman. The deed and the mortgage were both of them recorded
in October, 1875.
On the 1st of April, 1881, Cadman filed a bill in equity
against Peter, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Michigan, and an amended bill on the 23d
of April, 1881. The latter contained the following allegations:
About the year 1874 or 1875, Cadman became indebted to Peter
in $10,000, for money borrowed, Peter making his two notes,
for $5000 each, with interest at 7 per cent. per annum, payable
to Cadman, to be by him endorsed, and used to obtain money
for Cadman's benefit, which was done. The notes were renewed from time to time, Cadman paying up the acciued interest at each renewal, until October 25, 1875. On that day,
Cadman owned the 5400 acres of land above mentioned, coy-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

ered with pine timber and valued at upwards of $40,000, and
was anxious to procure money, and applied to Peter to furnish him with $20;000 more, and the negotiations With Peter
culminated in the following -agreement : Peter agreed to loan
to Cadman $20,000 more, by making two notes of $10,000
each. Cadman was to execute to Peter a deed of the land, as
security for the entire $30,000. Peter was to hold the land
until such time as it might be sold at a profit or for a greater
sum than could be then realized, and, when such time should
come, was to sell the land in the most advantageous manner
possible, and out of the proceeds was to pay himself the $30,000, and interest thereon at the rate of 7 per cent. per annum,

and the taxes -which he should have paid on the land, and
should divide the surplus, if any, paying over to Cadman one
half, and retaining the other half to recompense himself for
his labor, trouble and expense in selling the land. Cadman
received and used the notes for $20,000, and'the transaction
was intended to operate as a security from Cadman. to Peter
for the repayment of the $80,000, and interest, and was so considered by both' of the parties. At the time of the agreement
and conveyance, the financial affairs of the country were
greatly depressed, and land valuable chiefly for its standing
pine timber was not in great demand, and both parties knew
that an adequate price therefor could not then be obtained,
but also knew that within a short time such land would greatly
appreciate in value, and that, by continuing to hold the land
until it should rise in value, they would be able to dispose of it
at a price much beyond $30,000. Cadman had estimates of
the timber standing on the land, and alleges that there was upwards of 40,000,000 feet at the time, worth not less than $60,000, and now worth, if none had been cut, from $80,000 to
$120,000. During two years last past the property became
valuable, and it could, at any time- during the past eighteen
months, have been readily sold for a sum sufficient to pay all
of Cadman's indebtedness to Peter, and all moneys Peter may
have expended for taxes. Cadman, on the day of
1878, applied, by letter, from San Francisco, California, to Peter, for an accounting of his doings in the matter, and received

CADMAN v. PETER.
Statement of Facts.

a reply that the land had not yet been sold, and consequently
no account could be rendered. On the 4th of February, 1881,
he again applied to Peter to settle the matter in some way, and
Peter .then ignored and repudiated the entire transaction, and
stated to Cadman that he knew of no unsettled transaction between them, except an indebtedness of $10,000 from Cadman
to Peter. Cadman thereafter offered to pay Peter $30,000 and
interest, and any sums paid by Peter for taxes or other proper
expenses, and requested Peter to release the security, and deed
the land back to Cadman. Cadman offered to pay any sum
tha.t might be found due from him to Peter. The bil waived
an answer on oath. It prayed for an accounting as to what
was due from Cadman to Peter; and for a decree that the deed
was an equitable mortgage, intended by the parties as a security for money loaned and expenses to be incurred about the
land, and that Cadman be permitted to redeem the land on
paying to Peter the money which should be found equitably
dub to him; and that then Peter might be directed to convey
the land to Cadman. There was also a prayer for general
relief.
The answer contained the following averments: Peter made
the two notes for $5000 each, to the order of Cadman, to enable him to obtain money for his individual benefit, but at an
earlier date than that stated in the bill. The land conveyed
was not, at the time, valued at $40,000. There.were no negotiations between Cadman and Peter which culminated in the
agreement set forth in the bill, and Peter never made any such
agreement. The deed was not received as security for money.
At the time Peter received it, the affairs of the country were
greatly depressed, and the land was valuable chiefly for the
pine timber standing on it and was not in great demand, and
an adequate price for it was difficult to be obtained, and this
fact was known to both parties, and it was expected by both
of them that it would appreciate in value, but that was a matter which should not affect Cadman, as he was in no way to
have any interest in the land after the sale and the deed to
Peter were made. The property had become valuable since
Peter purchased: it from Cadman, but he did not hold it to se-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Appellant.

cure any indebtedness from Cadman to him. Cadman did not,
at any time in 1878, apply to Peter by letter for an accounting
of his doings in the matter, and did not receive a reply that the
land had not been sold and consequently no account qould be
rendered. On the 25th of October, 1875, Peter purchased the
land from Cadman for $20,000, the price agreed on between
them, and which was a fair price therefor at the time, and the
sum had long since been paid. After the purchase, Cadman
never claimed to have any interest in the land until a short
time before the bill was filed.
The answer also contained a demurrer to the bill, as not stating a cause of action warranting the relief, prayed.
Issue being joined, proofs were taken, and, on a hearing the
bill was dismissed, in June, 1882. 12 Fed. Rep. 363.
fr. C I. Walker for appellant.
I. It is the settled law of Michigan, as well as of this court,
that parol testimony is admissible to prove that a deed absolute is intended as a mortgage, and if so proved it may thus be
treated. .VadswortA v. Zoranger, Harr. Mich, 113; Emerson
v. Atwater, 7 MV[ich. 12; Tilden v. Streeter, 45 Mich. 533;
Hurst v. Beaver, 50 Mich. 612; Ferrisv. Wilcox, 51 Mich.
105 ; Russell v. Southard, 12 How. 139 ; Babcock v. WTyman,
19 How. 289; Villa v. Rodriguez, 12 Wall. 323, 339; 1Peugh
v. Davis, 96 TU. S. 332; 1 Jones on Mortgages, ยง 285.
ILT Undoubtedly in these cases the burden of proof is upon
the party seeking to show a deed absolute to be a mortgage,
and the testimony must-be clear. Howland v. Blake, 97 U. S.
624; Tilden v. Streetee', 45 Mich. 533; 1 Jones on Mortgages,
. 335.
III. If the evidence shows that the deed was in fact given as
a security for a pre-existing debt, or for advances made or to be
made, or for both, it is to be treated as a mortgage, irrespective
of its form. Whether given as a security, to use the language
of Judge Swayne, "is the very hinge of the controversy."
Russell v. Southard, 12 How. 139, 148, 153 ; Tilla v. Rodriguez, 12 Wall. 323, 336; Peugh v. Davis, 96 U. S. 332, 336 ; 2
Jones on Mortgages, ยง 1039.

CADM"A

v. PETER.

Opinion of the. Court.

IV. In determining this question whether a deed is to be
construed as a mortgage,-the adequacy of the consideration is
an important-element. Rusel v. Southard, 12 How. 148, and
cases cited; Peugh v. Davie, 96 U.. S. 332.
V. So also are the confidential relations between grantor and
grantee. Babcock v. Wyman, 19 How. 296-8.
VI. So also are the necessities of the borrower. Russell v."
Sout ard, 12 How. 155.
VII. A promise to repay is not essential to constitute a deed
a. mortgage. Ruell v. South&rd, 12 How. 152, and cases
above.
VIII. The fact that the grantee is to have the entire management of the property does not prevent a deed becoming a
mortgage. Babcock v. WFyman, 19 How. 289, 29.4; Emersq v.
Atwater, 7 Mich. 12.
IX. The cases cited by the district judge to sustain te decree, are cases where it was held that the deed was not intended
as a security, and they are therefore not applicable. Baker v.
Tkralher, 4 Denio, 493 ; -Macaulayv. Porter, 71 N. Y. 171.
X. If the deed was intended as a, security, the right to redeem attaches theretoi even if the'grantor at the time agrees
to release this right of redemption. 1 Jones on Mortgages,
251; 2 Jones on Mortgages, ยง 1039.
.Y. A8hley Pond and -Yr.Harrison Geer for appellee.
MR.JUsTIqE BLATCHEORD, after stating the case as above reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
The decision in the court below, 12 Fed: Rep. 363, announced
these propositions: The agreement set forth in the bill is inconsistent with a right to redeem, it being stated as an agreement
under which Peter was to hold the land until he should sell it, and
then share in any profit from the sale. Under that agreement,
even if it was valid, the deed cannot be turned into a mortgage,
although the execution of the agreement, if valid, might be
compelled, when the land could be sold at a considerable profit.
If the agreement is obnoxious to the statute which declares that
no trust concerning or in any manner relating to land shall be

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

created by parol, it cannot be enforced specifically nor employed
to turn the deed into a mortgage. The agreement, if valid,
would make Cadman a beneficiary under the deed, and create
a trust in Peter concerning or relating to land, and, not being
in writing and properly signed, is void under the statute of
frauds.
But the grounds of the conclusion reached were stated thus:
Under the evidence, Cadman is not entitled to relief, conceding
the bill to state a good case.
1. The conveyance was absolute on its face, for an expressed
consideration of $20,000. To overcome the effect of the deed,
-and turn it into a mortgage, the evidence must be clear and
convincing, beyond reasonable controversy.
2. Peter gave back to Cadman a mortgage, of the same date
as the deed, to secure the payment of the notes for $20,000
given for the purchase price. The mortgage was accepted and
speaks for both parties, as a contemporaneous writing express.ing their intention, and adding to the effect of the deed, as
evidence that there was an absolute sale.
3. On January 21, 1816, Cadman wrote to Peter that he had
drawn on the latter, at one day's sight, for $5000, to take up
at a bank a note of $5000 made by Peter, due that day, which
Cadman was unable to get etended by renewal. That note
and another like it, du3 that diy, were continuations of the
$10,000 accommodation notes mentioned in the bill, which were
in fact made in 1S72. This $10,000 of paper is alleged by
Cdrnan to hae been securedi by the deed. Petet.had sent to
CadmAtwe new nites to retire the t*o then coming due, and
C11dman says, in his letter, that he had lodged one of the new
notes as collateral to the draft. The draft, a-copy of which is
in the record, directs the amount to be charged to Cadman's
account. Peter; on January 22, 1876, replied to Cadman thus:
"I accepted your draft this morning. What do you think of
making a draft on me at one day for $5000? I do not have
the money to pay this draft. This shows for itself how my
notes are peddled in Detroit. I have told you before that my
credit will suffer from.such tansactions. You say you do this
to save my good name. This is a most cruel assertion to me

CAD.MAN v. PETER.
Opinion of the Court.

under the circumstances, as I derive no benefit from it. Let
me know at once if I must raise the money to pay this draft.
I have $5000 to pay to your bank the same day. , I want you
to send me something to show that the two notes and this
draft are for your benefit, and for you to pay it in case I should
be taken away, which we are all liable to be. My estate
suould have something to show-in fact, I myself should have
it." Peter would not have written thus, if the $10,000 of notes
were for him to pay, and if, three months before, Cadman had
given him security for the amount; nor would he have asked
Cadman to give what he had no right to ask from him. To
the above letter Cadman replied, on January 24, 1876: "I am
sorely mortified and grieved that this should be the case, but I
am entirely powerless to act. I think I can get the money
on the other note in time to recall your acceptance.
I shall try and get the money, but if I do not, you can draw
on me at three days' sight, and I will get the money in meantime on the note. I hardly know what to do. I will do anything in my power. I will send you my notes, or anything I
have." Cadman would not have acquiesced in Peter's demand
for something to show that Cadman was to pay the paper, and
that it was all for his benefit, unless Cadman so understood
the fact. On January 30, 1876, Cadman having come to the
end, wrote to Peter thus: "I return your note, $5000, herein.
I cannot use it, except to discredit you still more. I have resigned; am a ruined man. . . . I owe so much money
outside that I cannot stand the pressure. . . . My family
have gone into the countryto board, and I am ruined and penniless. I console myself, in your case, that the great bargain.
you made in the Newaygo lands will, in some great measure,
compensate you for the loss you must incur, for I cannot take
care of the acceptance due early in February." This was an
acceptance by Cadman of a draft on him by Peter, drawn January 28, for $5000, at .three days' sight, to pay the $5000 draft
of Cadman at one day's sight, which Peter had accepted January 22. Peter having paid that draft, and there still being one
$5000 note out against him, he would lose $10,000 by Cadman,
having the land to represent the $20,000 of notes "given for it,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion, of the Court.

which had not matured. This last letter cannot b6 reconciled
with Cadman's version of the transaction as to the deed. At
such a crisis in his affairs, with the transaction so recent; if he
had a beneficial interest in the Newaygo lands, they being, as
he now says, then worth $60,000, as against $30,000 of notes
from Peter, he would not have dwelt on the great -bargain
Peter had made, as a matter of congratulation to Peter and
consolation to himself, but would rather have taken consolation
from the fact that he still had an interest in this valuable property. If the property, ample as Cadman now says it was, even
at its value at that time, to secure to Peter the $30,000, was in
fact merely a security to Peter for the $30,000, the idea of talking to Peter of loss was absurd. But if Peter owned the lands,
had bought them at a bargain, and was likely to make by selling them a profit greater than $10,000, then the loss of the
"$10,000 by Cadman was properly called a loss to be compensated for out of a profit in selling the Kewaygo lands for more
-than Peter had paid for them.
These are the considerations which induced the Circuit
Court to dismiss the bill. They seem to us of controlling
weight. It is not necessary to enlarge on them. The rule in
cases of this kind is well settled. If the conveyance is in fee,
with a covenant of warranty, and there is no defeasance, either
in the conveyance or a collateral paper, parol evidence to show
that it was intended to secure a debt, and to operate only as a
mortgage, must be clear, unequivocal, and convincing, or the
presumption that the instrument is what it purports to be must
prevail. Howland v. Blake, 97 U. S. 624 ; Coyle v. -Davi''8,116
U. S. 108; Caaev. Petes, 20 Mich. 298, 303; Tilden v. Streeer,
45 Mich. 533, 539, 540.

