HUNT *v. OLIVER.
Opinion of the Court.

HUNT & Another v. OLIVER.
APPEAL FROM THE cIRCuTr co

T OF THE uNITED STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
Argued April 5; 6, 7, 1886.-Decided May 10, 1886.

On the voluminous facts in this case, which are referred to at length I-n the
opinion of the court, it was held that the complainant had failed to establi.h that he was entitled to the relief against the appellants which was
prayed for in his bill, and was granted by the court below.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
JIXr. Henry Xf. Duffleld and 31Wr. George F. Edmunds for appellants.
.r.

C. F. Burton and Xr. Alyred ]2usselZ for appellee.

WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.
The bill was filed by David D. Oliver, the appellee, against
Henry S. Cunningham, Garrett B. Hunt, Jacob Eschluman.
Philip M. Ranney, Calvin Haines, George J. Robinson, and
Henry M. Robinson. The following facts are shown by the
pleadings and evidence. In the summer of 1868, Oliver, the
plaintiff, was the owner of about twelve thousand five hundred
acres of pine lands, and held a contract for the purchase of six
thousand five hundred acres more from. one David Preston.
These lards were in the State of Michigan, mainly in Alpena
and Alcona Counties. Six thousand acres of these lands Oliver
bad purchased in 1866 from the defendants Hunt, Esebleman,
and Cunningham, for $35,000. He paid nothing on the
purchase money, but secured its payment by a mortgage on
the lands purchased and other lands owned by him. In 1867
he put up a steam sav-mill and made other improvements on
the mortgaged lands, and carried on the business of mar.ufacturing pine lumber cut from the lands, first with one George
W. Hawkins as a partner, and afterwards with the defendant
George J. Robinson, to whom he conveyed an undivided oneMR. JUSTICE

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

fourth in all his lands. In the summer of 1868 the plaintiff
was in arrears for interest past due on the mortgage above
mentioned, and on a mortgage for $16,000 to the defendants
Haines and "Ranney, and also on one to E. & G. R. Haines,
for $10,000, covering part of the lands included in the Hunt,
Eschleman, and Cunningham mortgage. His property was
also encumbered oy other mortgages to the amount of $13,000;
he owed on the Preston contract for the purchase of lands
$12,000; he owed an unsecured indebtedness of $6000, and the
firm of Oliver & Robinson was indebted in the sum of $25,000,
making in all $117,000, without including interest. He had
not the ready means to meet his pressing demands. He was,
therefore, financially embarrassed, and was, moreover, involved
in difficulty with his partner, George J. Robinson, whom he
accused of trying to dispossess and defraud him. Thereupon,
on June 9, 1868, he wrote to Hunt and Cunningham for help,
stating-'his situation, and asking them to take from him a quitclaim deed of all his property, and to purchase the Haines and
Ranney mortgage, the E. & G. R. Haines mortgage, and other
indebtedness outstanding against him, to take possession of
and manage his property, and, when they .had paid all his
debts and the property was clear, to reconvey the same to him
by quit-claim deed, and for all their trouble and services he
offered to pay a reasonable compensation. They did not
accede to Oliver's proposition, and matters remained in 8tatu
quo until September. In the meantime, Oliver went to Buffalo, and there saw Hunt, Eschleman, and Cunningham, and
urged them to help him out of his troubles with his partner
and his creditors. But they did not yield to his importunities.
Of these three persons Cunningham alone had any experience
in commercial affairs. Hunt and Eschleman were farmers
living in Erie County, NVew York, and Hunt was Cunningham's father-in-law.
Oliver had given his creditors Haines and Ranney an option
to buy his property, but they had declined to purchase. Finally,
on September 2, 1868, Cunningham, being urgently entreated
by Oliver, left Buffalb and went to Ossineke, in Michigan, Oliver's place of residence, and had an interview with him. Be-

EUNT v. OLIVER.
Opinion of the Court.

fore leaving, he assigned his interest in the Hunt, Eschieman,
and Cunningham mortgage to Hunt and Esehleman, and, as it
appears, without consideration paid at the time.
Cunningham, while at Ossineke, accepted, at Oliver's own
solicitation, quit-claim deeds from him of all the latter's real
estate and bills of sale of all his personal property, including
his interest in the firm of Oliver & Robinson. The conveyances were upon their face without condition or trust. Cunningham' refused before the deeds were made to give Oliver
any writing showing the terms on which he accepted them.
Oliver, "inhis testimony in this case, states that at the time the
conveyances were made he understood that "the object-of the
transfer was zC trust ; that he," Cunningham, "was to use the
property to pay off 'the debts, and when the debts were paid
to deed it back." In the bill he alleges that "said transfers
were made for the purpose of enabling the mortgagees to sell
said property in such a way as to pay their own debt, and to
pay the other debts of complainant and leave him a surplus."
Cunningham testifies that the purpose of Oliver in making the
transfer to him was to enable him to hold the title for Oliver,
so that the property should not be seized in suits then pending
or about to be brought against Oliver, and to enable Oliver to
make a sale thereof.
N'o consideration for the transfers passed at the time of their
execution. The deeds were dated September 3, 1868, but were
not in fact executed until September 8th, following. Oliver
endeavored during the thirty days that followed the date of
the deeds to make a sale of his property, but failed. About
the first of October, 1868, he was in Buffalo, and, with Cunningham, entered upon a treaty with the defendants Calvin
Haines and Philip ]N. Ranney, who were partners under the
name of C. Haines & Co., and with the defendant George J.
Robinson, for the sale of the property to them. A contract
was agreed on, and, as the appellants insist, was as agreed on,
reduced to writing, and dated and executed on October 3, 1868.
It was siged by Cunningham, C. Haines & Co., and George J.
Robinson and, for the sake of brevity, is called in the record
the Buffalb agreement. It provided, among other things, that

OCTOBER TERAL, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

on the expiration of thirty days Cunningham, party of the first
part, should convey to C. Haines & Co. and Robinson, party
of the second part, all the real estate situated in townships
28 and 29 north, range 8 east, in the counties of Alpena and
Alcona, Michigan, which was conveyed to him by Oliver and
wife by deed, bearing date on or about the fifth day of September, 1868, and also all the personal property conveyed to
him by Oliver by bill of sale executed on the same day, the
sale and conveyance to be subject to the following claims:
1st. The Cunningham, Hunt, and Eschleman mortgage upon
a part of said real estate, on which mortgage there was unpaid
$30,000 and interest.
2d. A mortgage to C. Haines & Co. for about $19,000.
3d. A mortgage to J. B. Wayne for about $12,000, on a portion of said real estate.
4th. A claim of James H. Hill f6r about $3000.
5th. The copartnership indebtedness of the firm of Oliver &
Robinson.
The party of the second part agreed to take the property
subject to the above claims, and tc. assume and pay, at the time
of the conveyance by Cunningham, one-half of a debt for about
$10,500 due to E. & G. R. Haines, secured by a mortgage executed
by Oliver on his lands. The party of the second part further
agreed that they would, at the time of the conveyance by Cunningham, release and discharge all mortgages given by George
W. Hawkins to Calvin Haines or E. & G. R. Haines, and covering lands in the counties of Erie and Niagara, in the State of
New York, or either of said counties, and would protect and
save Hawkins harmless therefrom, and from the debt thereby
secured.
The contract further provided that the party of the second
part, in lieu of paying the one-half part of the mortgage held
by E. & G. R. Haines, and of discharging the Hawkins mortgage, should have the option to assign to Garrett B. Hunt the
mortgage of C. Haines & Co. against the said real estate of
George W. Hawkins, and the debt secured thereby, and in
addition to pay or secure the payment to Hunt of the sum of
$4000 within one year from the 3d day of November, 1868.

HUNT v. OLIVER.
Opinion of the Court.

The contract also provided that Cunningham should assign
a certain agreement made between Oliver and David Preston
for the purchase of about 6500 acres of land in Alpena and
Alcona Counties, Micliigan, subject to the aforesaid claims, and
subject to the contract price of said last-mentioned lands, and
-theparty of the second part agreed that, upon such assignment,
they would pay to Preston the contract price, and convey to
such persons as Oliver should direct, free of charge, all of said
6500 acres which lay outside of townships 28 and 29 north,
range 8 east.
The delay of thirty days provided by the contract was to
give Oliver the chance of selling the property within that time
if he could. He was not able to sell. On November 13, 1868,
Cunningham conveyed to George J. Robinson, Calvin Haines,
and Philip M. Ranney, in pursuance of the Buffalo agree.
ment, the lands and personal property therein mentioned.
The grantees then formed a partnership under the name of
Robinson, Haines & Ranney, for the manufacture and sale of
lumber from timber to be cut from the lands and sawed at the
mill conveyed to them by Cunningham. On the 9th of January,
1869, a new partnership for the same purpose was formed, under
the name of Cunningham, Robinson, Haines & Co., by taking
into the firm Henry S. Cunningham. This firm continued in
business until its dissolution in January, 1875. It was an unsuccessful venture. It never made or divided any profits.
When it ceased business it had not assets sufficient to pay its
debts. Three of its members, Cunningham, Haines, and Robinson were adjudicated bankrupts, and Ranney, the fourth
partner, was insolvent.
The bill in this case was filed March 12, 1873. It charged
a conspiracy between Cunningham, Hunt, Eschleman, Robinson, Haines, and Ranney to defraud Oliver of his property.
It averred that, before the Buffalo agreement was reduced to
writing and signed, Oliver was compelled to leave, and did
leave, Buffalo and was not present at its execution; that the
agreement which, before leaving, he consented that Cunningham might make with C. Haines & Co. and Robinson was,
that they should pay the Hunt and Eschleman, the James

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

B. Wayne and the C. Haines & Co. mortgages, and half of
the E. & G. R. Haines mortgage, and pay the Hill claim of
$3000,. and release and discharge Hawkins from all his
liabilities growing out of his business with Oliver, and pay
all the debts of the firm of Oliver & Robinson, whereupon Cunningham should convey to them all the lands conveyed to him by Oliver and David Preston in townships 28
and 29 north, range 8 east. Having done this, Cunningham
was to deed to Oliver all the lands outside of said towns. It
was averred that, instead of making the contract to which he
had assented, Cunningham made the Buffalo agreement, as
hereinbefore set forth, by which Haines, Ranney, and Robinson agreed, not to pay off Oliver's debts, but to receive a conveyance of the lands subject to said mortgages, and bound
themselves only to pay off one-half of the mortgage to R_& G.
R. Haines.
The bill then charged that -Hunt and Eschleman we're in
fact members of the firm of Cunningham, Robinson, Haines
& Co.; that Cunningham put no capital into the firm, and that
all the defendants to the bill had carried on the lumber business under said firm-name upon the lands and with the mill of
the plaintiff, and had stripped the lands of their best pine timber; that Cunningham had in the manner above set forth
secretly and fraudulently effected a sale of said lands to himself and his co-mortgagees; that the Buffalo agreement was a
fraud on the plaintiff; that Cunningham's deed to Robinson,
Haines, and Ranney was procured by fraud and in furtherance
of a conspiracy between all the defendants to obtain the plaintiff's property without consideration, and was made and delivered without payment or discharge by the vendees of the debts
of the plaintiff and said Hawkins, and was without consideration and void; and that the mortgage to Hunt, Eschleman, and
Cunningham had been paid, and should be charged with the
receipts of the mortgagees from the property, to wit, the profits
of the said partnership.
The bill prayed that the deed and all the transfers made by
Oliver to Ctinningham, the Buffalo agreement, and the deed of
Cunningham to Robinson, Haines, and Ranney, might be can-

HUNT v. OLIVER.
Opinion of the Court.

celed as fraudulent and void; that an account might be taken
of the issues and profits of said lands received by Cunningham
for the benefit of himself and Hunt and Eschleman, and the
mortgage held by them be charged with the amount thereof;
that the plaintiff might be at liberty to redeem; and that all
the defendants might be required to deliver up possession of
the mortgaged premises to the plaintiff, free and clear of all
incumbrance put thereon by them.
Before the filing of the bill in the present case, to wit, on
April 8, 1869, Hunt and Eschleman had filed their bill in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Midhigan, to foreclose the mortgage executed to them and
Cunningham by Oliver, to which Oliver and wife, George J.
Robinson, Calvin Haines, Ranney, and Cunningham were
made defendants. Oliver filed an answer and cross-bill, in
which he set up by way of defence substantially the same
facts as are relied on for relief in the present case. -4fterthe
taking of a large mass of evidence in that case the court dismissed the cross-bill without prejudice, and rendered a decree
in favor of Hunt and Eschleman, on their note and mortgage,
for $47,495, and directed a sale of the mortgaged premises to
pay the same. Upon this decree a sale was made on August
28, 1873, to Garrett B. Hunt, for $50,699.44, which was confirmed on May 8, 1874. The premises brought sufficient to
pay the debt secured by the mortgage.
The defendants Hunt and Eschleman filed a joint answer,
in which they traversed all the material facts averred in the
bill on which the plaintiff's prayer for relief was based, and set
up the decree made in the suit for the foreclosure of their mortgage in bar of the -present suit. Separate answers were also
filed by the other defendants. After the taking of testimony
and a reference to and report by a master, the Circuit Court,
on final hearing, rendered a decree in favor of the plaintiff,
against all the defendants, for $41,418.87, and that the defendants surrender to the plaintiff all the lands conveyed by him to
Cunningham by deeds dated September 3, 1868.
From this decree Hunt and Eschleman alone have appealed.
The appeal brings up the question how far the evidence jus-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

tifies the decree against Hunt and Eschleman. The gravamen
of the bill is that the defendants, including the appellants, conspired with each other to secure for themselves without consideration the property of the appellee, and in pursuance of this
purpose induced the plaintiff to execute deeds and transfers of
all his property to Cunningham; that, having thus divested
the title of the plaintiff and vested it in one of their own number, they caused the execution of the Buffalo agreement, which
was greatly to the disadvantage of the plaintiff, and was different from the verbal agreement between him and Cunningham
and the other defendants; that the Buffalo agreement as reduced to writing was never performed; but 'that the defendants, having organized the partnership of Cunningham, Robinson, Haines & Co., appropriated and used the property of the
plaintiff without compensation or consideration passing to him,
and by these means the large and valuable prolierty of which
the plaintiff was the owner before his conveyance thereof toCunningham was wrested from him and used and consumed by
the defendants.
We are of opinion, after a careful consideration of the
record, that the decree of the Circuit Court, so far as it concerns the appellants, is not supported by the evidence.
The deeds and transfers of his property by the plaintiff were
not made to the appellants, but to Cunningham, and there is
no proof that they had any part in persuading Oliver to make
them. On the contrary, Oliver himself testifies that the transfer of his property was suggested by himself for his own advaiftage ; that he offered by letter to convey his real and personal
estate to Hunt and Cunningham, jointly; and that they declined
to -accept. his conveyance. He went from Ossineke, in IMichigan, to Buffalo to try if he could not, by a personal interview,
induce Hunt, Eschleman, and Cunningham to accede to his
wishes, but they refused to become his grantees. After much
personal importunity he finally persuaded Cunningham to ac-cept a transfer of his property for the purpose, as it seems to
us, of delaying his creditors until he could make a favorable
sale, and thus save something for himself after paying his debts.
Cunningham went from Buffalo to Ossineke for the purpose of

HINT

.

OLIVER.

Opinion of the Court.

receiving the deeds and transfer, but there is no proof that
either Hunt or Eschleman solicited or advised Oliver to make
the conveyances .to him. It was the latter's own scheme,
conceived and carried out by himself, and in his own interest.
,Nor is there any evidence that either Hunt or Eschleman
took any part in the making of the Buffalo agreement. Oliver
himself fails to connect them with it. He merely says that
Hunt and Eschleman, Haines, Ranney, George J. Robinson,
and Henry If. Robinson were present at the discussion prior to
the making of the Buffalo agreement. There is no proof that
either Hunt or Eschleman urged or even advised the making of
that agreement; or any agreement whatever, for the sale by
Oliver and the conveyance by Cunningham of the lands and
property transferred by Oliver to Cunningham. There is no
proof that either of them was present when the Buffalo agreement was signed.
The charge that the agreement was not the contract to which
Oliver had assented is supported by only one witness, and that
is Oliver himself. On the other hand, there is much direct
evidence to show that the agreement was just what he had
consented it should be. Besides, Oliver's own conduct shows
beyond controversy his assent to the agreement. Ie knew as
early as the 10th of October what the written agreement was,
for on that day, according to his own testimony, he went to the
office of Williams, the lawyer who wrote the agreement, and
with whom it was left, and saw and read it. He says that
after reading it, he complained to Cunningham that the agreement was not the contract to which he had verbally assented.
In this he is contradicted by Cunningham, and both Hunt and
Eschleman swear that, after Oliver had read the agreement, he
said to them that he was well satisfied with it. But Oliver
does not swear, nor is there any proof, that he expressed any
dissatisfaction with the agreement to Haines, IRanney, or Robinson, the other parties to the contract, and who by its terms
were to become the vendees of the property. He took no steps
whatever to prevent the execution of the agreement. On the
contrary, on November 13th, more than a month after he had
seen and read it, *he allows Cunningham, without objection

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

from him, to make deeds for the property to Haines, Ranney,
and Robinson, in accordance with its stipulations.
The record shows other pregnant facts. On October 2, 1868,
the day before the execution of the Buffalo agreement, Oliver
signed a contract in writing, in which, in consideration of the
execution of that agreement, he covenanted to convey to Robinson, Haines, and Ranney certain lands not included therein,
and, on November 12, 1868, a month after he had seen and
read the Buffalo agreement, he executed to Robinson, Haines,
and Ranney a deed for said lands, "together with the right to
run logs through Devil River over and through any lands
owned by said David D. Oliver on the second day of October,
1868, and for that purpose to dam said river, and to flood any
lands that may be necessary for the purpose of running logs,"
etc.; and afterwards, on January 12, 1869, he procured the
acknowledgment of his wife to the deed, which was delivered,
of course, after that date. This was equivalent to a ratification
under his own hand and seal of the Buffalo agreement. Both
the agreement by which he contracted to convey the lands and
his ded of conveyance are in the record.
If Oliver was not satisfied with that agreement, as reduced
to writing, he should have assailed it at once. As soon as he
-learned of the fraud which he alleged had been practiced he
should have repudiated the contract, and informed Robinson,
IHaines, and Ranney thereof. But he did nothing of the kind.
He allowed the contract to be carried out by Cunningham
without objection. He himself made a deed in pursuan.ce of
the contract, and he permitted the vendees to expend large
sums of money in establishing anticarrying on the business for
which they purchased the property. These facts prove beyond
question, either that the Buffalo agreement was made upon the
terms to which he had given his assent in advance, or if not,
that he was satisfied with it as it was written, and ratified and
performed it. All the complaints of Oliver, therefore, in reference to the execution of the Buffalo agreement, are shown to
be groundless.
But the case stated in the bill fails for want of proof of the
necessary and vital averment, that these appellants were part-

HUNT v. OLIVER.
Opinion of the Court.

ners in the firm of Cunningham, Robinson, Haines & Co., and,
as such, appropriated and converted to their own use the property of the plaintiff.
The partnership just named was formed under written articles, under which Henry S. Cunningham, George J: Robinson,
Calvin Haines, and Philip M. Ranney, and no others, became
partners. With the exception of George J. Robinson, every
member of the firm named in the articles of partnership testifies that, neither Hunt nor Eschleman was in fact a partner.
Hunt and Eschleman testify to the same effect. The testimony
of George J. Robinson may be laid out of consideration. He
is not only contradicted on this point by every other witness
who testifies on the subject, but is flatly contradicted by his
own deposition and answer in the foreclosure suit brought by
Hunt and Eschleman against Oliver. Without going into details, it is sufficient to say that this witness is so thoroughly discredited that his deposition, uncorroborated, is not worthy of
attention in settling the facts of the case.
It is shown beyond question that neither Hunt nor Eschle.
man ever agreed to become partners in the firm of Cunningham, Robinson, Haines & Co. ; and that they never held
themselves out as partners, or contributed anything to the
capital of the firm, or derived any profit whatever from its
business. They were, therefore, not partners in any sense.
Berthold v. Goldsmith, 24 How. 536; Pelichy v. Hamilton, 1
Wash. C. C. 491.
The only facts upon which the contention of the plaintiff is
based that Hunt and Eschleman were partners in the firm are,
first, that Cunningham appeared as a partner under circumstances which indicated, as the plaintiff claims, that his contribution to the capital of the firm was the money due on the
mortgage to Hunt and Eschleman. This position, it may be
observed, is at variance with the bill, which avers that Cunningham did not contribute any capital to the firm. The second
fact relied on to show that Hunt was a member of the firm is,
that he lent it his credit by endorsing its paper.
But these facts are inconclusive. Hunt could aid Cunningham, his son-in-law, by advancing him means and by endorsing

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

paper of the firm of which Cunningham was a member, with=
out himself becoiiing a partner in the firm. These acts of Hunt
were perfectly consistent with his testimony, and that of all
the other witnesses, that he was in no -sense a member of the
firm. Conceding, therefore, that Hunt and Esohleman allowed
Cunningham to get a'foothold in the firm by authorizing him
to promise that the propertsof the firm should be protected
from the Hunt and Eschleman mortgage, and the testimony
shows nothing more, this does not prove or tend to prove that
they were partners. If they had given Cunningham outright
their whole interest in the mortgage, that fact would not have
invested them with any righti in the .property of the firm, or
subjected them to its liabilities. The contention that they
were partners in the firm of Cunningham, Robinson, Haines &
Co. is based on vague conjectures built on the sayings and
doings of others, which neither Hunt nor Eschleman is shown
to have authorized or ratified.
Much stress is laid by Oliver's counsel upon the alleged fact
that the assignment by Cunningham to Hunt and Eschleman,
of his interest in Oliver's mortgage to Hunt, Eschleman, and
'Cunningham, was without consideration and simulited. We
regard this assignment as a fact of no weight in this controversy. As Hunt and Eschleman are shown not to have
been partners in the firm of Cunningham, Robinson, Haines &
Co., the assignment did not injuriously affect Oliver's rights as
against them. Whether it was made with or without consideration was a matter of no concern to Oliver.- The fact is,
and so the record shows, that it wa made upon the advice of
counsel, and Oliver was told of it by Cunningham early in
November, 1868. Its purpose evidently was to avoid any embarrassment to Hunt and Eschleman in case Cunningham became Oliver's vendee of the mortgaged lands, and not to gain
any unfair advantage over him.
Finally, the evidence shows that all the stipulations in the
-Buffalo agreement for the benefit of Oliver have been performed by the parties, except when his own conduct has prevented performance; the $4000 has been paid to Hunt on
Oliver's account,. and Hunt has acknowledged its receipt, and

