SOUTH BOSTON IRON CO. v. UNITED STATES.

37

Syllabus.

tom of the furnace, by reason of its greater specific gravity,, ascend through the connecting tube, as the mass of molten metal,
accumulates and rises within the furnace, into the receiving
basin, and be dipped thence with a ladle. It was insisted by
the patentees that no such arrangement and combinatien were
to be found in Karsten's publication or in the furnaces depicted
in his figures, and that the improvement whicht they constituted was not the result of mere mechanical skill, but sprang
from a genuine effort of inveition. And this view was upported by the opinion of many experts skilled in the art.
In our opinion this was a question of fact properly to be left
for determination to the jury, under suitable instructions from
the court upon the rules of law, which should guide them to
their verdict. And there was evidence upon both sides of the
issue sufficient to require that it should be weighed and considered by the jury in the determination of the question, and this
implies that, if it had been submitted to the jury and the verdict
had been for the plaintiffs, it would not have been the duty of
the court to have it set aside as not supported by sufficient evidence. The court erred, we think, in withdrawing the case
from the jury as it did by directing a verdict for the defendants. For this error the judginent is
Reversed and the cause is remanded, with directions to grant
anew trial.

SOUTH BOSTON IRON COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Argued April 8, 1886.-Decided April 19, 1886.

H offered to the Secretary of the Navy by letter to construct new boilers for
certain vessels of the Navy. The offer was accepted at the Navy Department, by letter, and he was also thereby infered that the drawings and
specifications would be furnished as soon as possible. A few days later he
was notified to discontinue all Wvork contracted for by him with the Depart-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.
ment. On a suit brought in the Court of Claims for damages f6r nonperformance of the contract, Held, that the letters did not constitute a contract
with the United States under the provisions of Rev. Stat. §§ 3744-3749.

This was a suit in the Court of Claims to recover of the
United States $15,000 damages, and $143,264.06 profits, which
the claimant there alleged that it had suffered, or had been deprived of, by reason of the breach of two contracts which it
claimed it had made for the construction of boilers for vessels
belonging to the Navy of the United States. The defendants
pleaded the general issue. The only proof of the alleged contract and of the breach and claim for damages was contained
in the following correspondence:
"BosToN, Zlfarch 5th, 1877.
W r. H. SHOOK, Chief of Bureau of Steam Engineering, Navy
Department, Washington.
Sm: Having learned that new boilers are required for the
U,. S. steamers Narragansett and Tuscarora, now at Mare
Island Navy Yard, California, I submit the following proposition for the consideration of the Bureau of St. Engineering,
viz.: I will build such new boilers as may be required for the
above-named ships, complete in all respects, from drawings
and specifications furnished by the bureau, the material to be
of the very best quality, and the workmanship to be first 'class
in all respects; the boilers to be finished complete, ready for
use, excepting erection on board the vessels, or in sections convenient for shipment, as the bureau may determine; the price
of the same to be, if erected complete, ready for use, thirty
and seven-eighths (30j) cents per pound; if in sections, thirty
and three-quarter (301) cents per pound; in either case to be
delivered alongside of ship at New York or Boston, as may
be determined by the bureau. I agree to receive in part payment such old material as may be at the disposal of the
Department at the highest market prices.
I will also build one small boiler, complete in all respects,
ready for use, for the tug-boat Snowdrop, now at Norfolk,
from designs and specifications furnished by the bureau, and
deliver at navy yard, Norfolk; material and workmanship

SOUTH BOSTON IRON CO. v. UNITED STATES.

39

Statement of Facts.

to be of the best quality; price to be thirty and seven-eighths
(30j) cents per pound.
Very respectfully, your ob'd't serv't,
WTTL.IA

P. HUNT,

PresidentSouth Boston Iron Co.
(Endorsement.)
BUREAU OF STEAM ENGIIEERING,

NAvy D]EPA mENT, 2farch 7, 1877.
Received at the Navy Department, March *7,1871.
Accepted by verbal directions of the Secretary of the Navy,
in obedience to his order of this date.
W. H. SHOoK,
Ch'f of Bu. &t~mEng.""
"NivY DEPART=ENT,
BUREAU

OF

STEAM

ENGINEERING,

.- arek

Atk,1877.
Sm: By direction of the Hon. Secretary of the Navy, your
offer of the 5th inst. for boilers for., the Narragansett and
Tusoarora is accepted, upon the terms and conditions named in
said letter, the same to be delivered alongside vessel in New
York harbor for shipment to Mare Island Navy Yard; also
your offer for boilers for the tug Snowdrop, to be delivered in
the Norfolk Navy Yard.
The specifications and dawings will be furnished as soon as
prepard.
Respectfully,
WM. 1. SHOo K,
WASHINGTOx,

CNef of Bureau.
WN. 1. HU
PreeidntSoutk Boston Iron Co., Boston, iXass."
"BosToN, .Aareh 3, 1871,
Six: Having learned that new boilers are required for the

iron-clad monitor Dictator, I submit the following propositio
for the consideration of. the Bureau of Steam Engineering,
viz.: I will build such new boiler as may be required for the
above-named vessel complete in all respects from drawings

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.

40

Statement of Fats.

.and specifications furnished by the Bureau; the materials to
be of, the very best quality and the workmanship to be first,class in all respects, the boiler to be furnished complete, ready
for use and erection on board the vessel; the price of the same
to-be thirty and seven-eighths (301) cents per pound, to be delivered alongside ship at-New York.
Very respectfully your obedient servant,
WM. P. HUNT,
PresidentSot Boston Iron Company.
Wi!. ML SHOOK,

Chief of Bureau of -Hgineering,
3iarvy -D partment, Waahingtoz:'

"Received at the Navy Department, March 8, 1877."
(1st Endorsement)

"Bureau will accept."

G.

.

R.

(2d Endorsement.)
9l9NAvY DEPARTNT,
BUR1Au OF STEP ENGf EmRNG, 3kra&10, 1871.
Accepted by direction of the Hon. Secretary of the Navy,
in obedience to his order of this date.
W. H. SHoOK,

f of Bureau."
"NAVY DnPRT=zTr,
BumAu OF STFr EznGIERINxG, WAsHnTox, March 10th, 1877,
SIm: By direction of the Hon. 8 cretary of the Navy,
your offer of the 3d inst. for boilers' for the U. S. iron-clad
Dictator is accepted, upon the terms named in said letter, the
same to be delivered alongside ship or navy yard wharf (as
may be required) in New York.
The specifications and drawings will be furnished as soon as
possible.
Respectfully,
Wk!. H. SHOoK,
HU,

Boton, .Afa8."

h

of

u

SOUTH BOSTON'IRON CO. v. UNITED STATES. 41'
Statement of Facts.

"Nvy DFRXrT&Fr, WAAsinxGTON, .arch 16, 1877.
GvILmrr
: You are hereby notified to discontinue all
work by you contracted for with this Department or any
bureau thereof since March 1, 1877, until 'you shall be otherwise directed by the Secretary of the Navy.
Respectfully yours,
R. W. THompsoN,
Secretary qf the -Yary.
SOUTH BOSTON IRON Oo., South Boston, .afaza."
"1RiGsHOUSE, WASHINGTON, D. C., Zkarch 24tA, 1880.
Hon. R. W. Thompson, Secretary of the Navy.
Sm: You are hereby notified that the South Boston Iron
Company claims damages, interest and expenses of the United
States in the sum of two hundred thousand ($200,000) dbllars,
by reason of the suspension by you of a certain contract made
by your immediate predecessor in office (Mr. Robeson) on or
about the 7th of March, 1877, which contract was for'boilers
to be furnished by said company to the Navy Department of
the said United States, as specified in said contract, and that a
suit for the recovery of the same will be commenced immediately.
Very respectfully,
•TimoHY DAvis,
Agent and Attorney-in-Factfor the.Soutk Boston Iron Company."
-

"RGGS ]HousE, WAsmiGTON,

D. C., .f3arch 30th, 1880.

Hon. Secretary of the Navy.
Sm: ,I had the honor on the 24th inst. to communicate to
you the claim and intentions of the South Boston Iron Company under the contracts made by your predecessor with said
company for boilers onorabout the 7th and 10th of March,1877.
I have received no acknowledgment of the receipt of said
communication by you, and I have now respectfully to inquire
if said communication reached you, and if you have any views
to express as to said company's claim for damages, before the
commencement of a suit, as indicated in my said letter of the.
24th instant.
Very respqctfully, your ob't servant,
TmoTaY Dvis,

Agent South Boston bion Company."

OCTOBER TERM,

1885.

Opinion of the Court.

"N~vY DEPARTMENT, WASHINGTON, -Yarck 30th, 1880.
SIR: Your letter of the 24th inst. and your letter of this
date have been received.
R. W. THoXIsoN,
Very respectfully,
Secretary of the .Navy.
TimoTY D_vis, ESQ.,
Ag't South Boston Iron Co., Washington."
The Court of Claims held that the provision in Rev. Stat.
3744,which requires all contracts made with the Secretary of
the Navy "to be reduced to writing, and signed by the contracting parties with their names at the end thereof," was mandatory, and that contracts which did not comply with its requirements were void, and dismissed the claimant's petition,
from which judgment the cl, imant appealed.
.Xr. John C. Fay for appellant.
.Xi,. Solicito General for appellee submitted on his brief.

MI. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
In Clark v. Te United States, 95 U. S. 539, it was decided
that, to bind the United States, contracts by the Navy Department must be in writing, and signed by the contracting parties.
Such, in the opinion of the court, was the effect of the act of
June 2,1862, 12 Stat. 411, ch. 93, now in force as §§ 3744-3747
and §g 512-515 of the Revised Statutes. An effort has been
made in this case to show a contract in writing, but we agree
entirely with the Court of Claims that the papers relied on for
that purpose are nothing more in law or in fact than the preliminary memoranda made by the parties for use in 1 .eparing
a contract for execution in the form required by law. This
was never done, and, therefore, the United States never became
bound. Within a very few days after the memoranda were
made the whole matter was abandoned by the Department, and
the Iron Company has neither performed any of the work
which was referrwd to, nor has it ever been called on to do so.
The judgment is
lflrmed.

