OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

SALT LAKE CITY v. HOLLISTER, Collector.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
Argued Apr11 19, 22, 1886.-Decided May 10, 1886.

A municipal corporation engaged in the business of distilling spiri4is subject
to internal revenue taxation under the laws of the United States, whether
its acts in that respect are or are not

ltra tires.

A corporation is responsible for acts done by its agent, whether in contract or
in delicto, in the course of its business and of their employment, as an individual is responsible under similar circumstances. Philadepia,Wilmington & Baltimore Railroad Co. v.Quigley, 21 How. 202, affirmed.
The distinction pointed out between actions arising on contracts made by a
corporation in excess of its corporate powers, and actions against corporations for injuries caused by tortious acts done by its agents in the course of
its business and of their employment, in excess of its powers.

21r. Franklin S. RicA ardo for plaintiff in error. .Xr. Benjamin, Sheeb and .Mr. J.L. Rawlin8 were with him on the
brief.
.-Mr. Solcitor General for defendant in error.
MR.JUSTICE MILL-R delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was instituted by the city of Salt Lake to recover
of Hollister the sum of $12,057.75 illegally exacted by him as
collector of internal revenue for the district of Utah from the
city for a special tax upon spirits alleged to have been distilled
by said city, and not deposited in the bonded warehouse of the
United States by plaintiff as required by law.
Plaintiff alleges that, under threat of selling sufficient property of the city to pay said tax, it paid the sum demanded under
protest, appealed to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, who
failed and neglected to make any decision or to refund the
money, and after six months' waiting this suit was brought.
To the petition the defendant made the following answer:
" Now comes the defendant in the above-entitled cause, 0.
J. Hollister, and for answer to the plaintiffs complaint admits
that the plaintiff is a public municipal corporation created and

SALT LAKE CITY v. HOLLISTER.

-

Opinion of the Court.

organized under and by virtue of the laws of the Territory of
Utah, and that it has continued to be such a corporation since
its organization in February, 1850, and that the defendant was
at the time mentioned, and as alleged in plaintiff's complaint,
and still is, the acting United States collector of internal revenue for the district of Utah.
"Defendant admits that in June, A.D. 1876, the United
States Commissioner of Internal Revenue set down to and assessed against the plaintiff a gallon tax of ten thousand seven
hundred and sixty dollars upon spirits distilled by said plaintiff at various times between the 2d day of March, A.D. 1867,
and the 26th day of August, A.D. 1868, and not deposited in
the bonded warehouse of the Uinit.ed States by the plaintiff, as
required by law, but denies that said gallon tax was illegally
or erroneously set down to or assessed against the plaintiff by
said Commissioner of Internal Revenue, and avers that the
plaintiff, during all the time for which said assessment was
made, was actually engaged in distilling, producing, and dealing in, as distiller, said spirits so assessed, and said assessment
of said gallon tax was made upon distilled spirits actually produced by the plaintiff, and upon which plaintiff had not paid
the gallofi tax required by law, said gpirits not having been
deposited in the bonded warehouse of the United States by the
plaintiff, as required by law, but taken from said distillery by
the plaintiff, after having been produced and distilled as aforesaid, and sold by said plaintiff, and the proceeds of said sale.
turned into the treasury of the plaintiff.
"Said plaintiff, during all the time it operated said distillery,.
and especially from said 2d day of March, 1867, to said 26th
day of August, 1868, was distilling and producing spirits as.
aforesaid, and receiving and appropriating- the benefit arising
therefrom.
"Defendant further alleges that the plaintiff, during the
time mentioned in plaintiff's complaint, regularly reported and
paid to the collector of internal revenue of the United States.
the gallon thx due upon a quantity of spirits distilled and proiluced by plaintiff, but that plaintiff neglected to report all of*
the spirits it actually produced and distilled, and for and upont
VOL. cxvm-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the -Court.

which the said gallon tax was due and owing to the United
States, and that the tax so assessed as aforesaid is the tax due
upon the spirits produced and distilled in excess of the amount
so reported by said plaintiff, and upon which no tax was ever
assessed and collected up to the time of the payment mentioned
in plaintiff's complaint, and hereinafter stated.
"Defendant, answering, admits that the list containing the
said gallon tax assessed by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue of the United States was placed in the hands of this defendant as collector of internal revenue.
"And defendant alleges that said plaintiff having engaged
in the business of distilling and producing spirits as aforesaid,
and said tax. having been assessed by the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue as aforesaid and placed in the hands of the
defendant, as collector of internal revenue, for collection, it
became and was his duty as such collector to collect said tax.
"Defendant denies that he knew that said gillon tax, so
assessed as aforesaid, was erroneous and illegal, and avers that
said tax was leg-al and correct, and was assessed and collected
because plaintiff was liable to said tax.
"Defendant admits that he did threaten to seize and sell the
property of plaintiff to pay said tax, as alleged by plaintiff, and
that the plaintiff on the 14th day of August, 1877, paid the defendant the amount bf the gallon tax, with interest which had
accrued thereon from the date of said assessment, but for what
reason plaintiff paid defendant said gallon tax defendant is not
advised, and upon that subject has no knowledge, information,
or belief, and therefore cannot answer."
A demurrer to the answer was overruled, and the plaintiff
refusing to plead further, a judgment was rendered for the defendant, which was affirmed on appeal to the Supreme Court
of the Territory.
It will be perceived that this demurrer admitted that the
plaintiff, The City of Salt Lake, had been for a period of about
eighteen months engaged in the business of distilling and producing spirits and selling the same, and placing the proceeds'
of the sale in its treasury. That during this time the plaintiff
made regular reports as to the quantity produced and paid the

SALT LAKE CITY v. HOLLISTER.
Opinion of the Court.

tax oii the amounts so reported. But that while it thus operated said distillery, it failed and neglected to report all the
spirits which it produced, and the tax assessed and collected,
and which the present suit is brought to recover back, was for
the spirits of which no report was mide.
The Commissioner of Internal Revenue having assessed
plaintiff for these distilled spirits and placed the assessment in
the hands of defendant, he, as a means of collecting the tax,
did threaten to seize and sell property of plaintiff, whereupon
plaintiff paid the sum mentioned.
It would seem that this unqualified admission that the city
was actually engaged in the business of distilling spirits liable
to taxation, and replenishing her treasury with the profits
arising from the operation, ought to be a justification of the
officer who collected the tax due for the spirits so distilled.
And this argument is all the stronger, since the city acknowledged its liability as a distiller by paying voluntarily the tax
due on the larger part of the spirits produced.
But while the city does not deny the actual fact of distillation, and of fraudulent returns by it, it denies the whole affair
by argument. It says, that, thcagh it is very true the city did
distil spirits, did sell them, and did receive the money into its
treasury, it cannot be held liable for this because it had no legal power to do so. Its want of corporate authority to engage
in distilling is to be received as conclusive evidence that it did not
do so, while by the pleading it is admitted that it did. Because
there was no statute which authorized it as a city of Utah to
distil spirits, it could engage in this profitable business to any
extent, without paying the taxes which the laws of the United
States require of every one else who did the same thing.
If the Territory of Utah had added to its other corporate
powers that of making and selling distilled spirits, then the city
would be liable to the tax, but, because it had no such power
by law, it could do it without any liability for the tax to the
United States or to any one else.
It would be a fine thing, if this argument is good, for all distillers to organize into milling corporations to make flour, and
proceed to the more profitable business of distilling spirits,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

which would be unauthorized by their charters or articles of
incorporation; for they would thus escape taxation and xuin all
competitors.
It is said that the acts done are not the acts of the city, but
of its officers or agents who undertook to do them in its name.
This would be a pleasant farce to be enacted by irresponsible
parties, who- give no bond, who have no property to respond
to civil or criminal suits, who make no profit out of it, while
the city grows rich in the performance. It is to be taken as a
fair inference on this demurrer that all that the city might
have done was done in establishing this business. The officers
who, it is said, did this thing, must be supposed to have been
properly appointed or elected. Resolutions or ordinances of the
governing body of the city directing the establishment of the
distillery and furnishing money to buy the plant, must be supposed to have been passed in the usual mode. Everything
must have been done under the same rules and-by the same
men as if it were a hospital or a town hall. If the demurrer
had not admitted this, it could no doubt have been proved on
an issue denying it.
But the argument is unsound that whatever is done by a
corporation in excess of the corporate powers, as defined by its
charter, is as though it was not done at all. A railroad company authorized to acquire a right of way by such exercise of
the right of eminent domain as the law prescribes, which undertakes to and does seize upon and invade, by its officers and
servants, the land of a citizen, makes no compensation, and
takes no steps for the appropriation of it, is a naked trespasser,
and can be made responsible for the tort. It had no authority
to take the man's land or to invade his premises. But if the
governing board had directed the act, the corporation could be
sued for the tort, in an action of ejectment, or in trespass, or on
an implied assumpsit for the value of the land. A plea of
ultra vires, in this case, would be no defence.
The truth is, that, with the great increase in corporations in
very recent times, and in their extension to nearly all the business transactions of life, it has been found necessary to hold
them responsible for acts not strictly within their corporate

SALT LAKE CITY v. HOLLISTER.
Opinion of the Court.

powers, but done in their corporate name, and by corporation
officers who were competent to- exercise all the corporate
powers. When such acts are not founded on contract, but are
arbitrary exercises of power in the nature of torts, or are quasicriminal, the corporation may be held to a pecuniary responsibility for them to the party injured.
This doctrine was announced by this court nearly thirty
years ago in a carefully prepared opinion by Mr. Justice
Campbell in the case of Philadelphia, TRilmngtor and Baltinore .Railroad Co. v. Qudgley, 21 How. 202. That was an
action for libel by Quigley against the company for the publication of a letter addressed to the company in the course of an
investigation by its directors in regard to the conduct of some'
of its subordinates. This letter contained statements in regard
to plailitiff's skill and capacity as a mechanic very disparaging
in that respect. ' This, with much other testimony, was printed
and published by the board of directors, and the court decided
that the corporation could be held liable for the publication.
The argument that only the individuals who ordered the publication could be made responsible was urged then as here,
but the court held that if it was a libel the corporation was
responsible for it in damages.
It was also insisted that the existence of malice was a necessary element in the action for libel, and that the abstract
entity which constituted a corporation was incapable of malice,
which could only be predicated of the officers who ordered the
publication. This was likewise overruled, and it was held that
if the act implied malice, the corporation was liable for it.
The whole question was very fully considered. We can here
do no more than make a single extract from the able opinion.
After examining the authorities, it was said: "With much
wariness, and after close and exact scrutiny into the nature of
their constitution, have the judicial tribunals determined the
legal relations which are established for the corporation by
their governing body and their agents, with the natural persons with whom they are brought into contact or collision.
The result of the cases is that for acts done by the agents of a
corporation, either in contrau or in delicto, in the course of

OCTOBER TERM,

1885.

Opinion of the Court.

its business and of their employment, the corporation is responsible as an individual is responsible under similar circumstances.
At a very early period it was decided in Great Britain, as well
as in the United States, that actions might be maintained
against corporations for torts; and instances may be found
in the judicial annals of both countries of suits for torts arising
from the acts of their agents, of nearly every variety."
In the case of Reed v. Home Savings Bank, 130 Mass.
443, 445, the bank was held liable to an action for malicious
prosecution. The court said: "It is too late to discuss the
question, once much debated, whether a corporation can commit a trespass, or is liable in an action on the case, or subject
generally to actions for torts as individuals are. The books of
reports for a quarter of a century show that a very large proportion of actions of this nature, both for nonfeasance and for
misfeasance, are against corporations.

.

.

And, by the

great weight of modern authority, a corporation fbay be liable,
even where a fraudulent or malicious intent in fact is necessary
to be proved, the fraud or malice of its authorized agents being
imputable to the corporation; as in actions for fraudulent representations, for libel or for malicious prosecution." Many
authorities are cited in support of this proposition, which may
be found on page 445 of the report of the case.
Another well considered case in which a corporation is held
liable for malicious prosecution is that of Copley v. Grover and
Baker Sewing fachine Co., 2 Woods, 494.
It is said that Salt Lake City, being a municipal corporation,
is not liable for tortious actions of its officers.
While it may be true that the rule we have been discussing
may require a more careful scrutiny in its application to this
class of corporations than to corporations for pecuniary profit,
we do not agree that they are wholly exempt from liability for
wrongful acts done, with all the evidences of their being acts
of the corporation, to the injury of others, or in evasion of legal obligations to the State or the public. A municipal corporation cannot, any more than any other corporation or private
person, escape the taxes due on its property, whether acquired
legally or illegally, and it cannot make its want of legal author-

SALT LAKE CITY v. HOLLISTER.
Opinion of the Court.

ity to engage in a particular trnsaction or business a shelter
from the taxation imposed by the Government on such business
or transaction by whomsoever conducted. See Mto ready v.
Guardiansof thte Poor of Philadelphlia,9 S. & R. 94.
It remains to be observed, that the question of the liability
of corporations on contracts which the law does not authorize
them to make, and which are wholly beyond the scope of their
powers, is governed by a different principle. Here the party
dealing with the corporation is under no obligation to enter
into the contract. No force, or restraint, or fraud is practised on
him. The powers of these corporations are matters of public
law open to his examination, and he may and must judge for
himself as to the power of the corporation to bind itself by the
proposed agreement. It is to this class of cases that most of
the authorities cited by appellants belong-cases where corporations have been sued on contracts which they have successfully
resisted because they were ultra vires.
But, even in this class-of cases, the courts have gone a long
way to enable parties who had parted with property or money
on the faith of such contracts, to obtain justice by recovery of
the property or the money specifically, or as money had and
received to plaintiff's use. Thoma8 v. Railroad Co., 101 U. S.
71i; .ouslana v. Wrood, 102 U. S. 294; Cluzprnan v. Douglas
County, 107 U. S. 3418, 355:
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Utah Territory is
Afflrmed.

