O6TOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

255. No interest on these costs, therefore, can be claimed up
to the date of our decree. The new departure then taken by
the libellants in claiming the insurance, opened the matter so
as to postpone a final decree in the case in the Circuit Court
until the decree now appealed from was made. This decree
adjudges to the libellants their costs in the District Court precisely in accordance with our mandate. All delay in entering
the decree was caused by the libellants themselves. If any
interest was allowable on the costs in question, it would only
have been that accruing from the date of our decree, March 20,
1882, to the time of rendering the decree appealed from, Sep
tember 22, 184. In view of the circumstances of the litigation
which took place in that period, we do not think that the decree of the Circuit Court is open to objection.
Decree q? med.
Mr. JUSTICE MArTTrEws, -with whom concurred Mir. JUSTICE
MILLER, Mr. JUSTICE HARLAN, and Mr. JuSTIoE GRAY dissented.

Their dissenting opinion will be found at page 526 yod, after
the opinion of the court in T/ie Great 7e8terg.

THE GREAT WESTERN.
TIJOMESSEN & Another v. WHITWILL.
APPEAL FR M THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
.O
THE EASTERN DISTRICTOr

NEW YORK.

Argued October 19, 20, 1885.-Decided May 10, 1886.

The decision in The City of Yorwich, ante 468, in relation to the time when
the -allc , of the owner's interest in the ship is to be taken for fixing the

amount of his liability, applied to a case where the offending ship did not
sink in consequence of the collision, but Was afterwards sunk and wrecked
in the same voyage by the negligent navigation of those in charge of her;
this sinking being held to be th. termination of the voyage.

THE GREAT WESTERN.
Argument for Appellee.
The decision in the same case as to insurance repeated.
Limited liability may be claimed, 1st, merely by way of defence to an action;
or, 2d, by surrendering the ship or paying her value into court. The latter
method is only necessary when the shipowner desires to bring all the creditors claiming damage into concourse for distribution.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
M~r. . Van Santvoord,Mr. HarringtonPutnam,-Mr.Henry
T. Wing and Mr. ames . Hill for appellants, cited, in adto the authorities cited in the brief filed by MrM. Putnamand
.Mr.Hill in The Scotland, ante, 514 the following: 1 Parson's
Adm. and Mar. Law, ed. 1869, 525; Te Scioto, 2 Ware, 359;
TTe Woodrop Simms, 2 Dodson, 83; -Beeves v. Ship Constitution, Gilpin, 579; Ifileo v. Dikeson, 2 B. & Aid. 2; Cannan
v. .Meaburn, 1 Bing. 465; The Benares, 7 Notes of Cases, 5384
The Benefactor, 103 U. S. 239; Norwich Co. v. WV'irght, 13
Wall. 104; United States v. Clajlin, 97 U. S. 546; Butler v.
Russell, 3 Cliff. 251; Heckman v. Pinkney, 81 N. Y. 211;
Peofple v. Gold Stock & Tel. Co. 98 N. Y. 76.
Mr. James Thomson (Mr. . C. Henderon. was with him
on the brief) for appellee, cited The Scotland, 105 U. S. 24;
17w Phebe, 1 'Ware, 265; Norwich Co. v. Fright, 13 Wall.
104; The .Rebecca, 1 Ware, 187; Watteon v. .ark , 2 Am.
Law Reg. 157; Petition NSerwich & N. Y. Trans. Co., 17
Blatchford, 221; S. C. 8 Ben. 312; Wfalker v. Boston Ins. Co.,
14 Gray, 288; Lynch v. Dalzell, 4 Bro. P. C. 431; Sadlers Co.
v. Badock, 2 Atk. 544; Pothier, Trait6 d'Assurance, 0. 1, § 1, 2,
pl. 10, 11. .Dalbyv. India & Zondon Life Assn. Co. 15 0. B.
365; Columbian Ins. Co. v. Latrence, 10 Pet. 512; Carpenter
v. Prov. lfask. Ins. Co. 16 Pet. 496; Prov. & -Y.Y. Steamship
Co., v. Hill Xffg. Co., 109 U. S. 578 ; The C. H. Foster, 1 Fed.
Rep. 733; In re Long ,sland & Trans. Co., 5 Fed. Rep., 599;
The Benefactor, 103 U. S. 239; Exparte Slayton, 105 U. S. 450.
On the question of the origin and construction of the
statute of 1851, Mr. Thomson urged the following further
considerations:
English legislation on this subject prior to the act of 1851,
was embraced in the three statutes, 7 Geo." II. ch. 15, 26 Geo.

OCTOBER TERM; 18b5.
Argument for Appellee.

IlL ch. 86, and 53 Geo. III. ch. 159; and its history has been
related in .5orwick Co. v. W'right, 13 Wall. 104, in Walker v.
Ins. Co., 14 Gray, 288, and by Mr. Lathrop, in his article in 1
Am. Law Rev., 598.
The limit of liability prescribed by all these acts, whether in
the case of a part owner or of an owner of the whole ship, is the
same, the value of the vessel and freight. The phrase, interest
of the owner in vessel and freight, does not appear, because it
would have no application.
The act of 1851 was principally drawn from the Act 26 Geo.
II., ch. 86, and from either the Revised Statutes of Maine, Revision 1840, ch. 4:7, § 8, et seq., or the Revised Statutes of Massachusetts, Revision 1836, ch. 32, § 1, et seg.; probably the former,
since there are verbal agreements which point to this conclusion, and Mr. Hamlin, of Maine, took charge of the bill in the
Senate.
Section 8 of chapter 40 of the- Revised Statutes of Maine,
which was apparently the source of the third section of the act
of 1851, is as follows:
"§ 8. No shipowner shall be answerable beyond the amount
of his interest in the 'ship and freight for any embezzlement,
loss or destruction by the master or mariners, of any goods or
merchandise, or any property put on board of such ship or vessel, or for any act, matter or thing, damage or forfeiture done,
occasioned or incurred by said master or mariners, without the
privity or knowledge of such owners."
This is substantially the provision of the Revised Statutes of
Massachusetts, Revision 1836, ch. 32, § 1, and the phrase, " interest in the ship and freight," in both revisions, is taken from
the act of Massachusetts, Laws 1819, ch. 12, which constituted
the earliest legislation in the United States on this subject, and
was almost literally copied in the Maine statute, Laws 1821,
ch. 14, the phrase, of course, on well settled principles, retaining
in the revisions the meaning which it had in the statutes
revised. Bishop on Written Laws, §§ 98, 144; United States v.
Bowen, 100 U. S. 568, p. 573.
The material provisions of the Massachusetts act were as
follows:

THE GREAT WESTERN.
Opinion of the Court.

"§ 1. Be it enacted, &c., that from and after the passing of
this act, no person or persons who is, are or shall be owner or
owners in part or in whole of any ship or vessel, shall be subject to answer for, or make good to any one or more person or
persons any loss or damage by reason of any embezzlement,
secreting or making a-way with, by the master or mariners, or
any of them; of any goods, wares or merchandise, or any
property whatsoever, which shall be shipped, taken or put on
board any ship or vessel, or for any matter or thing, damage,
or forfeiture, done, occasioned or incurred by the said master
or mariners or any of them, without the privity or knowledge
of such owner or owners, further than the value of the interest
which such owner or owners have or had at the time of such
shipment in the ship or vessel, with all the appurtenances and
the full amount of his interest in the freight due or to grow due
for and during the voyage, wherein such embezzlembnt, secreting or making away with, as aforesaid, or other malversation
of the master or mariners shall be made."
That these statutes were based on the 26 Geo. III. ch. S6, is
apparent from the narrow scope of the protection afforded;
but even a cursory examination shows that the American statutes introduce a different limit of liability in the case of a part
owner, and that the construction and object of this phrase in
these acts is beyond doubt.
They restrict the gross liability of the owners to the value of
the vessel and freight, and ihe liability of any part owner to
the value of his share in the vessel and freight, adopting in
this respect no new prin'ciple, but the well settled rule, amongst
others, of the Consolato del Mare, ch. 141, 182; Holland, Ordinance of Rotterdam, Arts. 126, 127, 167, 2 Magens, 101, 102;
and Hamburg; 1 Yalin, 569.
Mr. JusTiE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case grew out of a collision which occurred on the
25th of March, 1876, on the high seas, 150 miles from Sandy
Hook, between the Norwegian bark Daphne, belonging to
the appellants and bound to Marseilles, and the British
steamship Great Western, belonging to the respondent and.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

others and bound to New York. The Daphne was injured.
about $7000 worth, and the court below found that the
Great Western Was in fault, and was worth $150,000, both

before and immediately after the collision; but that after
the collision, and on the same day, the steamer, while still on
her voyage to New York, was stranded and wrecked on the
south coast, of Long Island by the careless navigation and
fault of those in charge of her, and from no cause connected
with the collision. No freight was received by her owners.
On the 29th of March they abandoned her to the underwriters,
and received from them insurance to the amount of £34,000
as for a total loss. After this the wreck and materials saved
were sold for account of the underwriters and by direction of
the owners, and realized $1796.11. On the 27th of March,
1876, the libel was filed in this case on account of the owners
of the Daphne, and Whitwill, the respondent, appeared and
answered, denying that the Great Western was in fault, and
claiming that if she should be found in fault, the owner's liability
was limited to the amount or value of his interest in the vessel
and her freight; and that this interest was of no value whatever, and to this he added by leave of the court during the
trial, the following words: "And he hereby surrenders the
same to the libellants."lHe also during the trial tendered an
assignment of his interest to the libellants, and offered to give
another assignment to a trustee for the benefit of the libellants
under section 4285 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States. The court below held that the owners of the Great
Western were only liable for the proceeds of the wreck,
amounting to $1796.14, and gave a decree for that amount
and interest, and for the costs of the libellants in the District
Court.
The errors assigned for the reversal of this decree are substantially as follows, to wit: First. That the limitation of the
respondent's liability to the value of the ship and freight in the
condition in which they were after the stranding and wreck is
contrary to the rule contained in section 4283 of the Revised
Statutes. Secondly. Because the insurance received by the
owners was not included in the value of their interest in'the

THE GREAT WESTERN.
Opinion of the Court.

ship, liable to be surrendered in order to obtain a limitation of
liability, and was not taken into account in fixing the measure
of such liability. Thirdly. Because the court allowed the
respondent to amend his answer by adding the words "and he
hereby surrenders the same to the libellants;" and permitted
him to give in evidence his written surrender of his interest in
the steamer to the libellants; and his offer tomake a like surrender to a trustee for the benefit of the defendants. Four hly.
Because, without proof that the laws -of Sweden and Great
Britain are the same on the subject, the only law applicable to
the case was the law of the forum, of which the general admiralty law forms no part.
The points raised in the first and second assignments have
been already discussed and decided in the case of The City of
JEoriwich, ante, 468. There is nothing peculiar in the present
case, unless it be that the Great Western was not sunk or
wrecked by means of the collision, but afterwards, by the carelessness of her master or crew. This can make no difference.
We showed in the opinion referred to that the termination
of the voyage is the point of time at which the value of the
offending vessel is to be taken. The voyage in the present
case was not terminated until the vessel was sunk and stranded
on the Long Island coast. The carelessness of the master and
crew cannot vary the result. It is against their faults and negligence that the law was intended to protect the shipowner,
provided the loss and damage sustained were caused without
his privity or knowledge.
The third assignment of error cannot be maintained, because
the evidence referred to therein, which the court allowed to
be given on the trial, could not affect the result; nor was the
amendment of the answer material. The answer, as originally
framed, set up the defence that the liability of the respondent
was limited to the amount or value of his interest in the Great
Western and her freight upon the voyage, and averred that
that interest was of no value. The issue being thus raised,
the respondent was entitled to have the decree against him in
that cause limited to the amount which should be shown, by
the proofs on the trial, to be the value of said steamer and

OCTOBER TERM,

1885.

Dissenting Opinion: Miller, Harlan, Matthews, Gray, JJ.

freight at the terminationof the voyage. He did not need to
make any surrender or attempt at a surrender. A surrender
of the vessel, or payment of her proceeds, or value, into court
would have been necessary in order to bring other creditors
into concourse with the libellants; but for the mere defence of
that cause it was not necessary. This disposes of the supposed
difficulty in making an abandonment to the libellants after a
surrender or abandonment to the insurers; a difficulty which
we have already shown to be groundless in the opinion referred to.
The fourth assignment of error is not well taken, because
the case was altogether decided according to the maritime law
of this country, which is the law of the forum.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
Afflrmed.
Mr. JUsTicE MATTriws, with whom concurred Mr. JusTioE
Mr. JusTIOE HR]L", and Mr. JusTicE GRAY dis-

MILLER,

senting. "
Mr. Justice Miller, Mr. Justice Harlan, Mr. Justice Gray,
and myself are unable to concur in the opinion and judgment
of the court in the three cases just disposed of. The importance of the question decided justifies a statement of the
grounds of this dissent.
The principal question, stated generally, involved in all the
cases, is, whether under §§ 4282 to 4285, inclusive, of the Revised Statutes, being re-enactments of §§ 1, 3 and 4 of the act
of March 3, 1851, limiting the liability of shipowners, so that
for the losses specified it shall not in any case exceed the
amount or value of the interest of such owner in such vessel
and her freight then pending, that value shall be estimated
as including or excluding any sum received or receivable by
the shipowner on account of insurance upon his interest in the
vessel or freight.
Although that is the main question in -all the cases now decided, the circumstances which give rise to it in them, respect* This dissent is also entitled in the case of Tho City of Norwich, ante, 468,
and'in the case of Th.coIhnd;.,a4a507,

THE GREAT WESTERN.
Dissenting Opinion : Miller, Harlan, Matthews, Gray, JJ.

ively, differ in some important particulars, a consideration of
which will throw light upon the principle according to which
it is to be determined.
The case of 7we Scotland (Dyer v. The ifational Steam
.Yavigatimo Co.) was a libel inpersonam, in a cause of collision,
for the loss of the ship Kate Dyer, run downon the high seas by
the fault of the steamship Scotlaid, of which the respondents
were owners. A former appeal in the same case decided by
this court is found reported under the name of The Scotland,
105 U. S. 24. The Kate Dyer was sunk immediately, and the
steamship Scotland sunk soon after, from the effects of the collision, and was a total loss, a portion of the wreck being saved.
It was held on the former hearing that the respondents were
entitled to the benefits of the statute limiting their liability.
The decree for the several libellants amounts in the aggregate
to $255,047.70. It is also found that the Scotland at the time
of the collision was worth £100,000, was insured to the amount
of £63,500, and that within nine months after the collision
the respondents had received the amount thereof, equal to
$299,867.42 ; but that the value of the articles saved from the
wreck is the sum of $4927.85, which the decree ascertains to
be the amount for which alone the respondents are liable.
The case of The Great We8tern (Tommeeeen v. Titwill)
was a cause of collision in which the loss of the bark Daphne
was found to be from the fault of -thesteamship Great Western,
of which the respondents were owners, the libel being against
them inperonam. The libellants were domiciled subjects of
the Kingdom of :Norway and Sweden, and the respondents of
Great Britain. The libellants were found to have sustained
damages from the injuries to the bark by the collision in the
sum of $7023.44, and the value of the steamship, both before
and after the collision, until her subsequent stranding, was
from $140,000 to $150,000. After the collision, while on the
same voyage to New York, the steamship was stranded and
wrecked from a cause in no way growing out of or connected
with the collision, by the careless navigation and fault of the
persons in charge of her. Immediately thereafter, the owners
of the steamship made an abandonment of her to various un-

OCTOBER TER1,

1885.-

Dissenting Opinion: Miller, Harlan, Matthews, Gray, JJ.

derwriters who had insured her to the amount .of £34,000,
which was paid by them to the owners as a total loss. There
were saved from the wreck materials which on sale realized to
the owners $1796.14. The decree limited the liability of the
respondents, to this amount.
I The remaining case of The City of .Yorwich (Place& Other,
libellants, claimant; of the schooner General S. Van Vliet and
of the cargo, against [17w Norwich &. ew York Trangportation
Comany) presents other features. The collision in this case was
caused by the negligence of the steamboat City of Norwich,
owned by the appellees. Immediately after the collision the
steamboat took fire, her deck and upper works were burnt off, and
she sank in about twenty fathonfis of water. Her cargo of merchandise was thereby totally lost. The steamboat itself was
raised by salvors and taken to the port of New York, where she
was repaired. On May 9, 1866, less than a month after the disaster,William A.Wright and others, owners of the schooner, filed
in the District Court for Connecticut a libel inpersonam against
the appellees, as owners of the steamboat, and obtained a decree
for the loss of the schooner and her cargo for $26,657.28, which
on appeal to this court was affirmed, 'and will be found reported in 13 Wall. 104. On August 23, 1866, while that suit
was pending in Connecticut, and after the steamboat had been
raised, repaired, and brought into the port of New York, two
of the appellants, George and Charles Place, as owners of part
of the cargo on the steamboat, filed their libel in reTm against
her in the District Court of the Eastern District of New
York. Other libels in rem by other owners of cargo were also
fied. The steamboat was seized under process in these suits,
and the appellees intervened as claimants, an appraisement was
ordered, and a stipulation for the appraised value in the sum of
$70,000 having been given, the steamboat was releaseaL to
them. This appraisement Was of the value of the vessel, in her
condition at the time, after the repairs had been made. Decrees
were entered in favor of the libellants in all these cases. In
July, 1872, after the final decision by this court in the case of
_forwic b and New York Transportation Co. v. r'ight, 13
Wall. 104, on appeal.1from the Circuit Court for the District of

THE GREAT WESTERN.

529"

Dissenting Opinion: Miller, Harlan, Matthews, Gray, JJ.

Connecticut, and after the decrees in the District Court for the
Eastern District of New York in the proceedings in Pem, the
owners of the steamboat, the present appellees, filed their petition in the last named court, praying for the benefit of the act
limiting their liability. Such proceedings were thereupon had
that an appraisement was made of the value of the steamboat
in the condition and situation in which she was, after the collision and before she was raised, and it was found to be $2500,
being the difference between $25,000, her value -when raised, and
$22,500, the amount expended in raising her. A decree was
finally entered in the Circuit Court on appeal, limiting the liability of the appellees to this amount, and it was distributed
among the libellants, after refunding-to the appellees $1008.41,
part thereof, for their costs in the ligitation. The decree thereupon also perpetually enjoined all the libellants who had obtained decrees in their favor in the suits in rem in the Eastern
District of New York from the enforcement of those decrees,
and thus deprived them of their right to recover against the
stipulators, who had filed a stipulation in the sum of $70,000 to
answer the decrees in those causes. So that in thes6 cases the
owners are exonerated from all personal liability in excess of
the sum of $2500, but have received back their vessel free and
discharged from all liens established by the decrees against her
In rer1 in the Eastern District of New York. It is also found
as a fact, that when the collision" occurred the steamboat was
insured against fire but not against marine disaster, and of the
insurance money the appellees have recovered and received
from the underwriters the sum of $19,283.01.
It thus appears that in one case the owners of a vessel, whose
fault caused a loss to others of more than $250,000, escape all
liability over $5000, having received more insurance than necessary to pay the whole amount of the loss; in another, the
owners are repaid the whole value of the vessel in insurance,
and are exonerated from a decree against them of over $7000
on payment of less than $2000; and in the other, the owners
keep their vessel discharged from all liens, and receive nearly
$50,000 of insurance with which to repair and restore her, and
relieve themselves of all liability on account of losses, decreed
VOL. CMxvi-34

5530

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Dissenting Opinion: Miller, Harlan, Matthews, Gray, JJ.

against them, to the amount of over $26,000, on payment of
less than $2000. The question is, whether these results can be
justified by a reasonable interpretation of the law limiting the
liability of shipowners.
The question is now for the first.time decided by this court.
None of its previous decisions have expressly or by implication
involved it. It is true, however, that in the opinion of the
court in -Yorwich Company v. WrigAt, 13 Wall. 104, 117, in
stating the rule of the maritime law of the States of Continental
Europe, limiting the liability of shipowners to their interest in
their ship and its freight, the passage from Pardessus is quoted,
Droit Commercial, part 3, tit. 2, ch. 3, § 2, as follows : "The
owner is bound -ivilly for all delinquencies committed by the
captain within the scope of his authority, but he may discharge
himself therefrom by abandoningthe ship and freight; and, if
they are lost, it suffices for his discharge to surrender all claims
in respect of the ship and its freight," and it is added by the
court, "such as insurance," &c. The court then further said:
"The same general doctrine is laid down by many other writers
on maritime law. So that it is evident that by this law the
owner's liability was doextensive with his interest in the vessel
and its freight, and ceased by his abandonment and surrender
of these to the parties sustaining loss."
But the questiQn of including insurance in the estimate of
the value of the owner's interest, in the ship and freight, and
whether it followed the surrender of the latter to the parties
sustaining loss, was not directly involved, and the expression
of an opinion to that effect must be taken to be casual and obiter
dictum merely. Inasniuch, however, as the act of Congress of
1851, which is the law of the case, may be supposed to have
adopted the rule of liability fixed by it, in view of what was
believed to be the rule of the genjeral maritime law of Continental Europe, the quotation from Pardessus, and the application of it to the instance of insurance, as an incident which is
involved in the surrender of the ship or in the estimate of its
value, is not without significance. It is some evidence, indeed,
of the very view of the rule of the-maritime law which may have
been in the contemplation of Congress when it passed the act

THE GREAT WESTERNq.
Dissenting Opinion.: Miller, Harlan, Matthews, Gray, JJ.

of 1851, and proof to that extent of the meaning of that act.
And this is rendered more reasonable from the fact that Baron
Parke, in Brown v. Wilkinmon, 15 M . & W. 396, seeiiis to have
taken the same view as to the foreign maritime law. In that
case, he said it was contended by counsel that the effect of the
statute 53 Geo. IL ch. 159, § 3, "was to give to British shipping all the protection which the navigation of some foreign.
States extended to theirs, and this protection goes to the extent of permitting the owners, at the end of the voyage, to give
up the vessel in its then state by way of satisfaction to the parties injured, and, if it be lost, the owners are altogether exempt,
on abandoning the benefit of insurance, if any, and salvage."
If, now, on a more critical and extended inquiry into the
maritime law of the modern States of Continental Europe, it
should appear that the opinion of Pardessus, as quoted in the
case above cited, was not universally accepted, and that the
codes and commentators of various of those states differ in
their legislation and interpretation of the general maritime law
on the subject, it would not necessarily follow that Congress,
in passing the act of 1851, may not have intended to adopt the
rule as stated by Pardessus and those who agreed with him,
rather than that now insisted on as more generally prevailing.
There was, in fact, a controversy among writers on commercial and maritime law, both in France and Germany, on the
point. The opinion of Pardessus'coincided with that of Valin,
while 2merigon, who was followed by Boulay-Paty and others,
maintained the opposite opinion. This controversy was settled
for French law by an amendment to Art. 216 of the Code de
Commerce, which expressly excluded insurance from the abandon of ship and freight, in exoneration of the shipowner from
his liability, though the debate seems to be reopened as a consequence of additional legislation by Art. 17 of the law of December 10, 1874, which, in case of loss of the ship through becoming unnavigable or otherwise, allows subrogation in favor
of hypothecation creditors. It also appears that the Prussian
Code, adopted in
49,and continued in force until 1862, provided expressly, that, "when the ship has been insured, the
right against the insurer must also be ceded to creditors ;" and,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
. Dissenting Opinion: Miller, Harlan, Matthews, Gray, JJ.

applying the principle to the particular case now under consideration, Kaltenborn, in a treatise on the subject, published at
Berlin, in 1851, says: "The Roman law, which held the owner
absolutely liable with all his property, is nowhere put in practice, and was not current as early as the Middle Ages. Indeed,
the Consulate of the Sea, ch. 183, 224, 236, the law of Wisby,
reasoning from Arts. 13 and 68, that of the Hanse Towns, reasoning from Art. 2, Title X, render the owners, as a rule, answerable only to the extent of the ship's value; and the modern
maritime laws free the owners, by the abandon of the ship-and
their several shares in the vessel, from all further liability for
the ship enterprise, particularly for the acts and contracts of
the captain. In the ship are included all gains arising during
the voyage, as well as the insurance. Should the ship and the
freight have perished, it is sufficient for exoneration of the
owners if all claims and causes of action having reference to
the vessel and freight are abandoned by them." This was the
law of Prussia in 1851, when the Act of 'Congress of that year
on the subject was passed, and continued to be so until March
1, 1862, when the Prussian Code was superseded by that of the
Germanic ConfederAtion, which omitted any provision on the
subject, overruling the proposals of the Prussian delegates to
the contrary.
This statement of the contemporary law of modern Continental Europe on the point is condensed from the very able and
learned brief in these cases, prepared and submitted by Mr.
Harrington Putnam, one of the counsel, who supports it by
elaborate extracts and translations from foreign writers on the
subject, whose citations have not in any way been questioned
or impugned by opposing counsel, and have, therefore, been relied on as accurate. He states the further fact, that, besides
Holland, two other countries, Belgium, by a law of June 19,
1855, and Finland, Maritime Code of 1874, Art. 17, have expressly enacted that the insurance shall not be comprised in the
shipowner's aband n to creditors. The inference is, that there
was nothing in the maritime law of Continental Europe in
1851 which justifies the conclusion that Congress must have intended to exclude insurance from the surrender required of the

THE GREAT WESTERN.
Dissenting Opinion: Miller, Harlan, Matthews, Gray, JJ.

shipowner to limit his liability, but, on the contrary, the argument is strong, if not convincing, from the examples of European codes, that it would require express language to effect
that exclusion, if such was the intention.
But whatever bearhig the foreign law may be thought to
have upon the meanipg of the statute, it is clear that the latter
the light of the antecedent domestic law
must be interpreted inwhich it modified and displaced. What that was is not a matter of dispute.
The passage of the act of March 3, 1851, was no doubt due
to the decision of this court in the case of The fNew Jersey
Steam NYavigation Co. v. .Yerchants'Bank, 6 How. 343, where
it was held that in admiralty, as at common law, the owners
of a steamboat were liable in jersonam for the loss by fire of
specie carried by their boat, notwithstanding a contract of exemption, the loss having occurred from want of ordinary care
on the part of those engaged in the navigation of the vessel.
Accordingly it was provided, in the first section of the act
of March 3, 1851, that owners of vessels should not be liable
for losses by fire of goods carried by them, unless such fire was
caused by the design or neglect of the owner himself, with a
proviso, now omitted from the corresponding § 4282 of the
fRevised Statutes, that the parties, nevertheless, might extend
or limit the liability of shipowners by "making such contract
as they please."
A reference to the debates in Congress upon the bill during
its progress will show that this was the only provision which
excitea any comment; and while allusion was made to English
legislation on the subject of limiting the liability of shipowners,
and to the statutes of Massachusetts and Maine on the same
subject, there was no mention whatever made of any supposed
rule of general maritime law prevailing on the subject in Continental Europe, and no explanation of the expected operation and
effect of the provision fixing the limit of liability at the value
of the interest of the owner in the ship and freight, and of the
effect of a surrender of the vessel and freight in exonerating the
shipowner from any recovery beyond that limit.
In all cases of liability covered by the statute, there were

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Dissenting Opinion: Miller, Harlan, Matthews, Gray, JJ.

provided by the existing law of admiralty jurisdiction a remedy against the vessel itself in rem when it ould be seized,
and the alternative remedy in _peronam against the owners.
There was no limit to their, liability, but, as in other cases of
personal liability, all property of the defendants was subject
t- process in payment of the judgment or decree. The procedure in rem .has for its object the enforcement of a liability
which by the maritime law is a lien upon the vessel, which is
a jus in re, and is treated as a proprietary right, capable of
• being realized by judicial process. Ward v. Chamberlain, 2
Black, 430; Vandewater v. .tJills, 19 How. 82; The Lottawanna,
21 Wall. 558. And in cases of torts, as well as in many
cases of contract, where the general owner has intrusted a
special owner or charterer with authority to bind the ship but
not himself, the vessel is treated by the maritime law as an actor and juridical person, capable of committing wrongs, and is
*pursued as a delinquent without regard to ownership or agency.
The Cina,7 Wall. 53; Xalek Adhel, 2 How. 210. And when
the liability is not 6nly a lien on the vessel, but a claim against
the owner personally, if satisfaction is not secured by process
in rem, the deficiency may be made good by proceedings in
.pemonam.
The subject-matter of the act of March 3, 1851, was the personal liability of shipowners to answer for the losses specified,
and its limitation. It does not deal with the liability of the
vessel itself to answer in rem for such losses, as it had no occasion to do. For the sole purpose of the act was to limit the
personal liability of owners, so that it should not exceed the
value of the ship and freight. It left the vessel, therefore, to
be proceeded against in rem precisely as before, leaving that
procedure entirely untouched and unaffected. There is nothing
whatever in the statute to forbid parties having suffered from
its fault from prosecuting the offending vessel, as a re8, to the
full extent, as previously authorized by the maritime law, and
with all the necessary consequences. On the contrary, the act
proceeds throughout on the assumption of that right and liability. It only adds, that in cases where the owners are not personally guilty of. the alleged wrong, on taking the steps pointed

THE GREAT WESTERN.
Dissenting Opinion: Miller, Harlan, Matthews, Gray, JJ.

out in the law, there shall be no recovery against them personally in excess of the value of their interest in the ship and
freight. The act only operates as a limitation upon the personal liability of the owners, as digtinguished from the liability
of the offending vessel itself.
This seems to us very clear; and yet, in the case of The City
of Noronwich, the libellants have been perpetually'enjoined from
prosecuting their decrees actually obLuiued against the steamboat City of Norwich, bwcause the owners have obtained under
the statute a release from their personal liability on account of
its wrong. It is not to the purpose to say that, in a proceeding against the vessel, its appraisement included the cost
of raising and repairs put upon it by the owners, which ought
not to have been included; for that is a question which could
only properly have been litigated in the case in which the
decree complained of was rendered. Besides, it is difficult to
see on what grounds an owner can rightfully complain, who
has voluntarily raised his sunken vessel and repaired her, that
those having maritime liens upon her seek to enforce them, or
how he can claim, as against them, a prior or any lien on his
own vessel for raising and repairing her. And we think it is
quite plain that it was an error in the decree appealed from to
deprive the libellants, who had obtained their decrees against
the vessel, from prosecuting them to their legitimate results,
when the whole force of the statute authorizing the proceeding
is expended in a limitation of the recovery in suits against the
owner in personam.

It is not to be assumed, however, that, because the proceeding in rem remains unaffected by the act of 1851, the personal
liability of owners in proceedings against tlhem in personam is
restricted to the same extent as it would be if the proceeding
in rem were declared to be the sole remedy. For that would
be to declare, that, in all the cases within the purview of the
act, when a proceeding in rem, could be brought against ship
or freight, or the proceeds of either, there should be no personal liability of the owner and no proceeding in personam.
against him. But the statute does not proceed upon the idea
that, in such cases, the personal liability of the owner is

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Dissenting Opinion: Miller, Harlan, Matthews, Gray, JJ.

altogether superseded by the proceeding in Tern, but only that
it is restricted within certain expressed limits, on compliance
with certain definite conditions. In all cases the owner
must surrender the vessel and its pending freight, or their
value; whereas, in many, such as suits for pilotage and for
damage by collision, no process in rem against freight is given
by the 14th and 15th Rules in Admiralty, such as is authorized by the 12th and 13th in suits by material men and for
mariners' wages. So that the statute is not to be treated as if
it confined the recovery of the party suffering loss strictly to
what he might o ,tain by a proceeding in rem against the vessel
alone. It, therefore, does not conclude the inquiry to say,
that, in a proceeding in. remT against the vessel, the libellant
had no lien which he could follow on any policies of insurance
taken out by the owners, or the proceeds of any such when
payable or paid. The question still recurs, what does the
statute of Congress require the owner to give up or account
for, as a condition of his release from personal liability for the
loss and wrong suffered by the libellant ?
For the same reason, it is irrelevant and immaterial to say
that the policy of insurance, taken out by the owner on his
-interest in the ship or freight, is a contract of personal indemnity, collateral to his ownership, which does not pass by
operation of law with a transfer of the title to the thing which
is the subject of the insurance, and to the benefit of which those
having liens on the thing are not entitled, in case of its loss,
on the principle of subrogation.* All that may- be true; but, if
it is, it nevertheless remains to ascertain whether, recognizing
the owner's independent right to recover for his own use insurance accruing to him by the loss of its subject, the statute
has not said that he shall not have the privilege of release and
exoneration from his personal liability for injuries inflicted by
his agents and representatives, except upon the condition, as a
price for its purchase, that he shall voluntarily surrender, as
the value of his interest in the vessel and freight, whatever
-they have procured for him of pecuniary advantage, including
the insurance money recoverable for their loss.
The language of the statute, Rev. Stat. § 4283, is, that" the

TIE GREAT WESTERN.
Dissenting Opinion: Miller, Harlan, Matthews, Gray, JJ. '

liability of the owner of any vessel," &c., in the cases described, "shall in no case exceed the amount or value of the
interest of such owner in such vessel and her freight then
pending." By § 4285 it is enacted that "it shall be deemed a
sufficient compliance, on the part of such owner, with the requirements of this title . . . if he shall transfer his interest
in such vessel and freight, for the benefit of such claimants,
to a trustee," . . . "from and after which transfer all
claims and proceedings against the owner shall cease." It was
decided in the case of The Scotland, 105 U. S. 24, that it is not
necessary that shipowners should surrender and transfer the
ship in order to entitle them to the benefit of the law. That
is only one mode of relief. In the alternative, they may retain
their interest in the ship, abiding a decree for the value of the
ship and freight as ascertained by the court upon the proofs.
But this double method of executing the puirpose of the statute
does not imply any difference in the estimated amount of the
possible recovery. The limit of that, in every case, is the
value of the owner's interest in the ship and freight, and is
the same, whether he makes an actual transfer, or whether he
submits himself personally to the payment of the ascertained
amount.
The question, then, upon the statute is reduced to this:
Whether the insurance money payable or paid to the owner in
ease of the loss of or damage to the ship is to be included in
the estimate of the value of the owner's interest in it. And
that question turns, as we think, on another and a very simple
one: Whether the value of the owner's interest in his lost or
damaged ship, in the sense of the statute, means its money value
to him, computed with reference to every pecuniary advantage
and benefit it brings to him, or whether it means the pricc
brought by the material things which remain when put to sale
to the best bidder, leaving him still in possession of all those
legal rights springing out of and supported by his interest in
it, which in case of insurance, or a right of action against the
cause or instrument of its loss, may result in restoring to him
in money its full original value. It is true, that the act
declares that a transfer of the owners interest in the ship and

OCTOBER TERM 1885.
Dissenting Opinion: Miller, Harlan, Matthews, Gray, JJ

freight shall be a sufficient compliance with its conditions, and,
by construing this with narrow and literal exactness, this
transfer may be confined to the mere wreck and physical
remnant of the broken ship, or, if sunk to the bottom of the
sea, the mere spe& 'ecuverandi. But this construction, we
think, hkcret in cortice. The whole language of the act must
be taken together, and nothing less will satisfy its meaning
or its policy than such a transfer or payment as will include the
full money value to the owner of his interest in the ship, which
the statute requires him to sacrifice in order to purchase the
immunity which it bestows on that condition alone. For the
policy of the act was to encourage investments in ships by
limiting losses from the risks of navigation to the amount and
value of the investment, and that includes the insurance
recovered by force of a premium which, when paid, constitutes part of the investment, the insurance money itself being
the produce of the investment, which restores it when lost or
impaired. Insurance adds to the ship a value of its own, by
imparting to the subject of insurance the quality of reproducing itself or its value in case of injury or loss. It was the
policy of the act to encourage the shipping interest by a protection against the unlimited" personal liability of shipowners
for the acts and defaults of their agents and representatives,
with reasonable regard to the rights and interests of others
engaged in the same pursuit, and not to put a premium on its
destruction by taking away from shipowners a. principal
motive for regarding either their own or the interests of
others. And the language of the statute seems to us not only
to bear such a meaning, but fairly to imply it. For certainly
every pecuniary advantage or profit-which the ownership of a
thing actually secures by necessary operation of law may be
estimated to ascertain the value of the thing to its owner.
The insurance, which in case of damage or loss repairs and
restores the vessel or stands in its place, and is its produce and
earning, being the purchase money paid for it by virtue of the
contract which assumes the risks insured against, is strictly an
accessory of the ship-insured, as much so as the freight which
she earns, and the express mention of the latter, as part of the

THE GREAT WESTERN.
Dissenting Opinion- Miller, Harlan, Matthews, Gray, JJ.

interest to be transferred, is not to be held as excluding
insurance because not expressly mentioned, for the reason that
the mention of freight is sufficient to characterize the nature
of the owner's interest to be valued, as including not merely
the material remnants of the broken or sunk vessel in,
.pecie,
but as well that which 'it
produces, and which is in truth her
representative, and of which it is the meritorious cause and*
consideration. For the insurance is the price paid by the
insurer to the insured as the purchase pro tanto of the thing
insured when damaged or lost, and, in the hands of the owner
or due to him, still remains as the value of an interest in the
ship as that existed when.damaged or lost, and ought to be accounted for as part of that value as much so as freight paid,
though no longer freight money in kind, must still be valued
and accounted for by the owner who has received it. The insurance money is the interest of the owner in the ship reduced
to money, and, therefore, most accurately measures its value;
for, in cases of total loss, actual or constructive, all interest of
the owner, even though it be a mere apes -ecuperandi,on payment of the insurance money, passes by operation of law to
the insurer. Yet that very interest, thus the property, on
abandonment or payment of a total loss, the title to which
passes to the insurer, is the same interest, the value of which,
by the terms of the statute, must be decreed to the libellant to
exonerate the owner from personal liability to any additional
extent.
An effort was made in argument by counsel to restrict the
meaning of the words "the interest of such owner," as used in
Rev. Stat. § 4283, so as merely to distinguish between the several liabilities of part owners; but there is no foundation for
this. The words are used as well with reference to the interest of a single owner, as of part owners, where there are more
than one. It means, we are constrained to believe, and naturally suggests, not merely the naked title of the owner to the
physical materials which constitute the ship, or its wreck, or
its remnants, but every interest in, attached to, or growing out
of it, capable of pecuniary valuation and measurement, so as to
include every right of action accruing to its owner, by con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Dissenting Opinion: Miller, Harlan, Matthews, Gray, J.

tract or by operation of law, growing out of its ownership, or
any damage or loss previously occasioned to it by others, embracing rights of actions against others for torts causing the
injury, if any there be, and upon policies of insurance or other
contracts of indemnity, taking effect in consequence of or notwithstanding the loss. Suppose, for instance, that., after the
collision which gave to the libellants the lien and right to proceed against the offending vessel for the loss and damage, the
latter had been effectually sold, while still pursuing her voyage, and the title transferred to a purchaser, would not the
purchase money, either in the hands of the vendor when
paid, or in those of the vendee until paid, notwithstanding
the subsequent total loss of the ship itself during the
same voyage before reaching her home port, be- the measure
of the value- of the owner's interest to the full amount
of which the injured party might recover? It seems to us
there can be but one answer to that question, and that in the
'affirmative. It seems to us equally clear, that no distinction
can be drawn between the case just supposed and that of insurance. For the policy of insurance in cases of total loss is
analogous to a contract of sale, by which the ship, or what remains of her, or the hope of her recovery, become on the happening of the contingency the property of the insurer, and the
insurance money payable, the price, as upon a conveyance. In
both cases, the interest of the owner is transferred from the
thing to the money which represents it and stands in place of
it, and the money is the measure of the value of the interest of
the owner in the thing, for it is the price andiequivalent paid
for it. We cannot bring ourselves to think that Congress intended by limiting the personal liability of the shipowner, in
cases where previously his whole fortune was responsible for
the wrongs committed through his agents and representatives,
to the value of his interest in the ship, which was the instrument of the injury, to permit the innocent party, suffering the
damage to go entirely without redress, when the vessel in
fault, by disaster subsequently happening during the whole
period of the same voyage, has been totally los , and the
owner, by a contract in force when the wrong was done, re-

THE GREAT WESTERN.

541

Dissenting Opinion: Miller, Harlan, Matthews, Gray, JJ.

ceives full compensation by way of insurance for the loss he
has incurred, and has thus restored to him the offending vessel, not indeed in 8pecie, but in value. It seems to us it is the
meaning of the statute that the owner shall-'receive no pecuniary benefit from his interest in the vessel doing the wrong,
which shall not inure to the compensation of him who has suffered the loss which it has 'caused. And that meaning Congress has taken pains to express by the use of the word "interest," as the subject which, or the value of which, the owner
must surrender and transfer or account for, as the priceof his
immunity from personal liability, because it is appropriate to
convey the idea, being large enough to embrace, not the mere
legal title to the vessel or the a reck and remnant of her which
may be saved from the perils of the voyage, but every claim
and benefit which constitutes to the owner its substance and
value, capable of measurement in money.

