'5071

THE SCOTLAND.
Statement of Facts.

THE SCOTLAND.
DYER & Others v. NATIONAL STEAM XAVIGATION,"
COMPANWY.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT

COURT, OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued March 12, 13,1885.-Reargaed October 20. 21,1885,-Decided May 10, 1886.

The decision in the previous case of The City of Norwich, repeated on the
question relating to the time when the value of ship and freight is to be
taken for fixing the liability of the owner, and on the question of insuiance.
Where a collision occurred by which the offending ship and her cargo were
sunk at sea, but strippings from the ship were rescued before she went
down, from which the owners afterwards realized several thousand dollars:
Held, that in awarding damages against the owners, limited to the amount
of their interest in the ship, the court is not bound to allow interest on the
proceeds of the wreck or strippings ; but may, in its discretion, allow interest or not.
The Circuit Court is not bound to allow interest on costs awarded by the District Court, although such costs are included in the decree ot the Circuit
Court.
The allowance of interest by way of damages in cases of collision and other
cases of pure damage, as well as the allowance of cost§, is in the discretion
of the court.

The following is the case as stated by the court:
This case presents nearly the same questions which have
just been considered in the case of The City of ATorwich. It

was before this'court.in October Term, 1881, and was decided
in March .1882. See The Scotland, 105 U. S. 24. From the
report of the case, but not from the record now before us, we
learn that the ship Kate Dyer and the steamship Scotland (the
latter belonging to the appellee) came into collision in Decemnber, 1866, opposite Fire Island Light, and the former immediately sank and was lost. The Scotland, being badly fnjured,
put back for New York, but sank outside and south of Sandy
Hock, only some strippings being rescued from her before she

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

went down. The owners of the Kate Dyer and others who
the National
had suffered loss filed libels inpersonanagainst
Zavigation Company, respondent and now appellee,
Steam
who filed an answer denying that the Scotlknd was in fault,
and pleading that she was sunk and destroyed, and, therefore,
that there was no liabiliy against the respondent. The Circuit
Court, on appeal from the District Court, found the Scotland
in fault, and rendered a decree in favor of the libellants for
the full amount of their damage, amounting with interest to
upwards of $250,000, besides the costs of the libellants in the
District Court, amounting to $2173.10.
This decree was reversed by this court in Mrarch, 1882, so far
as it condemned the respondent to pay the whole amount of
damages sustained by the libellants and intervenors, and affirmed as to the residue, the court, in its opinion, holding that
the amount of the respondent's liability was the value of the
ship's strippings which were saved from the wreck.
The case went back to the Circuit Court, but was not further
prosecuted until June, 1883, when the libellants applied for
leave to file a supplemental allegation to their libel, for the
purpose 6f showing that the respondent had received a large
amount of insurance for the loss of the Scotland, which the libellants claimed should be included in the amount of the respondent's liability. The amendment was allowed without
prejudice to the respondent, and with a reservation of the question as to the legality of such an amendment after the decree
of this court had been rendered and a mandate sent down.
The case was then referred to ascertain the amount realized
from the strippings, and from the insurance of the Scotland. The
finding of facts in the court below, based on the report of the
commissioner, on evidence and on admissions of the parties,
states that the amount realized from the strippings was $4927.85, received on or before the 27th of July, 1868; that the
freight for the voyage was $13,703.20, but no part of it was
earned or received; that the passage money was $1703.65, but
was all absorbed in refunding part, and employing the residue
in transferring and reshipping the passengers; that the value
of the Scotland before the collision was ,100,000; and that

THE SCOTLAND.
Mr. Taft's Alrgument for Appellant Rollins.

the insurance effected on her and received by the respondent
was £61,647, equal to $299,867.42. As conclusions of law, the
court held that the proper amount to be paid by the respondent, as depending upon the value of the articles saved, was
$4927.85; ana that the insurance received by the respondent
formed no part of its interest in the steamship to be surrendered in limitation of its liability under the statute. A decree
was thereupon made that the respondent pay into the registry
of the court the sum of $4927.85 as the value of the strippings
and remnants of the Scotland; and the sum of $2173.10,. the
costs of the libellants in the District Court, and the costs in the
Circuit Court; and that upon such payment the respondent
should be discharged from all liability to the libellants and intervenors.
To the findings of fact and conclusions of law of the Circuit
Court the libellants excepted on the following grounds, to wit:
1. That interest should have been allowed on the sum of
$4927.85:
2. That all freight and passage money should have been
added:
3. That the amount of insurance received should have been
added:
4. That the libellants should have had a decree for their entire loss.
On the argument it was also claimed that interest should
have been allowed on the costs of the District Court ($2173.10).
The case was first argued at October Term, 1884. On the
6th day of April, 1885,the court ordered a reargument, which
was had at the present term by the. same counsel who argued
at the last term.
Ifr. E. N. Taft for appellant Rollins, referring to the briefs
in the other cases, cited The Rebecca, I Wall. 187; .Norwich
Co. v. WTright, 13 Wall. 104; Brown v. WTlkinsot., 15 M[. & W.
396, Watt8on v. Xark.s, 2 Am. Law Reg. 167; Coggs v.B ernaed, 2 Ld. Raym, 909, 917; Phil. and Read. Railroad Co. Y.
Derby, 14 How. 468; Rail,'oad Co. v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Mr. Carter's Argument for Appellants.

and cases there cited; Bank of Kentucky v. Adams Epores Co.
93 U. S. 114; Rice v. Railroad Co. 1 Black 358; The North
-Star,106 U. S. 17 ; Williams v. Fitzhugh, 37 N. Y. 444; Dyer
v..Yrational Steam. avigation Co. 14 B]atchford, 487; Andrews
v. Durant,18 N. Y, 483; Parrotev. Knickerbocker Ice Co. 46
N. Y. 361; 2Schwerin v. -We-Kee, 51 N. Y. 180; Goddardv. Foster, 17 Wall. 123; JfcCallum, v. S eward 62 N. Y. 316 " The
.Maxry Eveline, 14 Blatchford 497; African Steamboat Co. v.
Swanzy, 1 K. & J. 326; Gen. 1ron Screw Collierv. Sehueman8,
29 L. J. Ch. 877; Nixon v. Roberts, 30 L. J. Ch. 844; Straker
v. Hartland,34 L. J. Ch. 122; Smith v. .Kirby, L. R. 1 Q. B.
D. 131; The Sisters, 2 Aspinal's Maritime cases, N. S. 588;
The l1 orthumbria, L. R. 3 Ad. & Eccl. 6; Tzomessen v. Whitwell, 21 Blatchford 45, 62; Columbian Ins. Co. v. Ashby, 13
Pet. 331; Prov. & . . Steamship Co. v. Hill Xfg. Co. 109
U. S. 578; The Rajah, L. R. 3 Ad. & Eccl. 539; Liebee's Hermeneutics, 8d ed. 136; Prussian Code. Introduction, p. 54,
quoted in Lieber's Hermeneutics, page 120; Insurance Co. v.
iDurhan, 11 Wall. 1; The Dophin, 1 Flippin, 580; ] merigon
Contrats, ch. 3, § 9.
Xr. James. C. Carterfor appellants.
The quesion, shortly-stated, is: What is inqluded under the
words "amount or value of the interest of such owner in such
vessel and her freight then pending," contained in § 4283 of the
Revised Statutes? In the determination of this question much
depends upon the principles of interpretation which are to be
applied in ascertaining the real intent of the legislature.
If this question be viewed in the light only in which the sufficiency of a declaration, or the terms of a written conveyance
inter partes are considered, the conclusion might easily be
reached that, as an assignment or transfer of the subject of insurance does not ordinarily carry the insurance with it as an
incident, the two things are independent and distinct; and,
consequently, that insurance cannot in this statftte be embraced
under the terms "amount or value of the interest of *suchowner
in such vessel."
If, upon the other hand, we view the enactment in question

THE SCOTLAND.
Mr. Carter's Argument for Appellants.

as one effecting changes in the law governing the responsibility,
of public carriers-a most importaat branch -of the public
policy of States-reasons very speedily appear which lead to
the conclusion that Congress must have designed that the ordinary insurance by a shipowner against a sea peril should,be
regarded as incidental to, and, therefore, a part of the subject
insured.
The irnterpretation of the statute cannot properly be removed
from the control of those considerations of public policy from
which it springs.
It is first to be observed that the principal field of the operation of this act is the relations between carriers and shippers
of goods. By genera law a most- rigorous liability is imposed
upon public carriers for the safety of goods and passengers.
This responsibility is so severe thatas to goods, they are declared' to stand in the place of insurers; -and as to passengers,
they are held to be bound to the exercise of the highest degree
of diligence. These rigorous obligations are imposed, hot because they are dictated by natural justice, but in accordance
with' the supposed necessities of a sound public policy. In the
view of that policy, the requisite measure of diligence can be
secured only by that ever present sense of its necessity which
is produced by the imposition of -this s vere obligation. Railroad Co. v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357, 3Y7, et 8eq.
Again, the public carrier is subjected to this rigid liability,
not only in respect to his own acts, but also in respect to the
acts of his agents and servants; and this rule has been adopted,
not in obedience to any principle of natural justice, but as'the
dictate of a sound view of public policy. Railroad Co. v.
Lockwood, above eited.
There has been from time immemorial in many continental
ntions, and more recently by express statute in this country
(the act in question), a relaxation of this sev6re obligation in
respect to carriers by 'water; Ind such relaxafion, like the rule
itself, springs from the teachings of public p9licy, being an indulgence designed to encourage the building and employment
of ships. Norwich Co. v. WrFrqt,"13 Wall. 104- 121.
Whether this statuary -relaxation was applicable in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Mr. Carter's Argum-nt for Appellants.

Courts of the United States to controversies in which foreign'
vessels were parties was an open question until its decision by
this court in this case, and such decision as to the intent of
Congress was avowedly placed by this tribunal upon like cunsiderations of public policy. The Scotland, 105 U. S. 241, 33.
So, also, serious question has been made as to whether, in
ascertaining the value of an owner's interest, for the purpose
of determining the extent of his liability, the valu6 is to be
taken before or after the casualty. Either construction of the
statute is admissible; but, reasoning from grounds of public
policy, and imputing to Congress the intent to act in accordance therewith, it has been determined that the value to be
ascertained is the value of the interest aftev the happening of
the casualty. Arorwic Co. v. T7rigt, above cited.
Applying the same methods to the determination of the
question now brought before the court, there can be little
doubt that the true construction of the language "the amount
or value of the interest of such owner," should embrace any
insurance upon such interest.
Clearly there is nothing in this language which exclude8 such
interpretation. In common understanding a policy of insurance is incidental to the subject insured, and it is entirely consistent with propriety of speech to say that there are two
kinds of interest in ships: one, an inmured interest; and the
other, an uninsuredinterest.
In all ordinary dealings the insurance is treated as simply incidental to the subject insured. Whenever there is a sale of
the subject, be it ship or cargo, the insurance is transferred with
the subject to the purchaser. Such transfer may or may not
require the performance of a separate act of assignment. In
one class of cases, namely, those in which the insurance is for
the benefit of whoever may be interested at the time of the
loss, the insurance is, by its terms, incidental to the subject insured and passes with it; but in other cases, in which no such
language is employed, the insurance, as a general rule, is, in
fact, regarded none the less as incidental to the subject. The
mere circumstance that an additional act is requisite, in order
to effect a transfer of the interest in case of a sale, is quite im-

THE SCOTLAND.
Mr. Carter's Argument for Appellants.

material.

§ 35.

Phillips on Insurance,

§ 76;

2 Duer on Insurance,

There are two considerations which ought to be conclusive
on the present position. (1) By the general law a public
carrier cannot by special contract relieve himself from the obligation of exercising diligence, nor ban he, it is assumed,
directly protect himself by insurance against any loss or
damage which he may sustain by reason of being obliged to
pay damages to others for the consequences of his want of
diligence. 0But, unless in cases like the present, the amount of
an insurance upon the offending vessel is, in case of loss, to be
made subject to the claims of those who have suffered damage
from such offending vessel, the plain consequence is that the
owner of the guilty ship is enabled by the mere fact of an insurance upon his interest to achieve two things: ,$rst, full indeinnity to himself for the loss of his own property; second,'
complete exemption from liability for the consequences of his
own culpable negligence. Can Congress be supposed to have
intended the introduction of any such incongruity into the law
governing the obligation of carriers? (2) If the owner of the
guilty vessel is entitled in case of the loss of such vessel by a
peril subsequent to the casualty, and before the termination of
the voyage, to take to himself the proceeds of an insurance on
his interest, then this further striking incongruity is brought
about. One ship, through culpable negligence, sinks another,
and the owners of the former become liable to pay therefor
i,100,000. The offending ship remains intact and prosecutes
her voyage. If such voyage is completed in safety, the ship
must be yielded up to satisfy the demands of her victim. If
she is lost, those demands are absolutely extinguished by that
mere fact, and the proceeds of the insurance are gathered by
the owners of the guilty vessel. What situation does the
master of the guilt.y vessel occupy in such a case, after the
casualty and before the loss ? By the sacrifice of his vessel
he may earn $100,000 for his owners. If he performs his
duty, it is only .to the detriment of his owners and to the advantage of strangers. Did Congress design any such anomaly
as this?
TOL. cxvii-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
'Mr. Putnam's Brief for Appellants.

The only obstacles in the way of the interpretation on which
we insist arise from the circui, stance that a polic not issued
for the benefit of whom it may concern at the time of the
loss, is not assignable with the subject of insurance But it is
the opi.ion of the best authorities that whenever by any policy
of insurance, it is the eontemplatiorn of 'the parties, however
manifested, that the insurance should pass with a transfer of
the subject, it will pass upon such transfer. IS it too mucb to
sa, that whenever any insurance is effected, the result of whiich
may be to call upon underwriters to indemnify the oWner for
,the: loss of a hip which has charged herself with a lion for
damages to others occasioned by negligence, there will be 2mputed to the parties an intention that the proceeds of the policy,
should go to indemnify the sufferers, and not to those who
inflicted the damage? See Phlilips on Insurance, § 89, 104.
It is well established that Where the owner of an insured
interest sells it, assuming to stand as trustee of it for the
-benefit of the purchaier, he w1l hold a poicy of insurance;'n
the sul6ject as such trustee. 7hy,
in this case, do not .ae
owners stand, under the law, as trustees for the benefit of these
who have sustained the loss?
The doctrine we contend for is in harmony with every principle of equity, and preserves the integrity .of those rules,
heretofore deeed so essential to the maintenance of care and
diligence on the part of public carriers. The c.ntrary doctrine.
tends directly to diminish the force of the motives to diligence,
and is inconsistent with the fundamental rules governing the
liability of carriers.
.Mr. C. -R. Ingersoll, counsel for appellants Wright and
Others in 'Tlw.City of .Nwnwich, ante 468, by leave of court
'filed a brief on behalf of appellants' in this case, presenting
substantially.the viecs of the law argued by him in that case,
.ifr. HarringtonPutndwi and 2'. ;Tames K Hill on behalf
of.,Jens Thommesse, & knother, appellants in The Great.
Wesern, _post 520 by liave of court# led a brief.in this case, in
which thdy cited .the following continental. auithorities:

THE SCOTLAND.
Mr. Putnam's Brief for Appellants.

French Autharitieq: Laurin, note to 1 Cresp, Cours de
Droit Maritime, Paris (1876-1878), page 182, citing Amerigon,
Contrats la grosse, ch. xii. § 7, t. II. p. 585 et seq.; 1 Valin,
Com. sur l'ord. de la Marine, 316 (art. 3, tit. XII.), citing a de-

cision of the Parliament of Bordeaux, Sept. 7,1758; ]imerigon,
Contrats A la grosse (as above cited), Hall's Translation, Baltimore, 1811, pp. 255, 256; Pardessus, Cours de Droit Commercial, 1st ed. n. 663; ib. 2d ed. part IV. tit. 11, ch. III. § 2; ib.
part III., tit. 1, ch. 1 ; Boulay-Paty, Cours de Droit Com. Mar. ;
Labraque-Bordenave, Trait5 des Assurances en France et a
1'Etranger, Paris, 1876 ; Gonse, Effets de l'Abandon du Navire,
9-10 (Paris, 1872) ; De Courcy, Questions de Droit iM:arithies,
2me s~rie, 195 (Paris, 1879); le Comte de Portalis, in the
Cour de Cassation, 1841; Camille P6rier, le Comt6 Portalis, le
Comte Marburg, and Persil in debate in the Chambre des
Pairs in 1841, Moniteur, April, 1841; 8 Revue Rtrangre
et Frangaise de Liq. 540; Dufour, Droit Maritime, 372-398;
Code Civil, Art. 2095; 1 Couder, Diet. du Droit Com. 418;
Boistel, Precis de Droit Com. 885 (2d ed. Paris, 1878).
German Authorites: Das Allgemeine Landrecht of Prussia;
Behrend, in Holtzendorff, 1 Encycl. der Rechtsvissenschaft, 336
et seq.; Kaltenborn, 1 Grundsfttze des praktischen Europfis-Then
Seerechts 31 (Berlin, 1851); Pbhls, 3 Darstellung des gemeinen
Deutscben und des Hamburgischen Handelsrechts, 234; Weiske,
9 Rechtslexikon 744; Wendt on Maritime Legislation, London, p. xxvii; Makower, Das Allgemeine Deutsche Handelsgesetzbuch, XVII. ; Protokolle der Kommission zur Berathung
eines allgemeinen Deutschen Handelsgesetzbuches von T. Lutz,
Beilagenband, p. 345; Commission to amend the Maritime
Laws of Germany, 4 Protokolle, 1606; 8 Protokolle 4169,
4171.
These authorities (they contended) lead to the following conclusions :
1. The equity to insurance was deduced by the French
courts from a statute prescribing an abandon only of ship and
freight.
2. It has been maintained by Valin and Pardessus and was

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Mr. Putnam's Brief for Appellants.

earnestly advocated by the highest French judicial authority,
viz., the Cour de Cassation.
3. The equity to insurance was denied by the Chamber of
Peers in 1841, in opposition to -the wish of the highest court,
on grounds that were professedly temporary and local.
4. Although French jurisprudence on this point may be unsettled, evidencing a transitional stage in its development, the
latest expression of the legislative will is in the direction of
.restoring the insurance equities to all creditors who hav6 a
specific lien on the vessel.
5. That the express enforcement of this equity by Prussian
legislation for over fifty years-was completely satisfactory to
both shipowner and creditor; and that the first attempt of
Prussian jurists to change the law in imitation of the supposed
policy of France, was met with unanimous remonstrance from
the shipping interest represented.at the Berlin conference.
6. That the ultimate reversal of the law was against the
protest of Prussia, and was accomplished by votes of nations,
many of whom had much less at stake in maritime affairs, and
at a period when the example of supposed French legislation
was much more influential than now.
7. That a principle authoritatively announcect by Valin,
supported by Pardessus, practically enforced by the French
courts, urgently advocated by the Supreme judicial authority
of France, administered successfully for over half a century in
the great Prussian p6rts of the Baltic, and satictioned by the
chief legal authority of Berlin, is in fact a veritable equity in
maritime law, and worthy the adoption of this tribunal.
On The Nature of Insurance, -/-. Putnan? and .Xk. 1Hill,
further cited: French Code Civil, § 1964; Holtzendorff's
Rechtslexikon, 1080; 1 Dufour .Droit Maritime, 373; llallager
Den Norske S~ret, 114 (Christiania, 1873); Rmerigon Trait6
des Assurances et des Contrats A la grosse, t. 2, 221 (Ararseilles,
1783); French Law of May 28, 1858; Statute Geo. IlI. ch. 78;
French Code du Commerce, § 191, subd. 10; Belgium, Art. 23,
Law of June 11, 1S74; Italy Coi. Code, 1883, Art. 671,
subd. 8; Spain, Com. Code, § 598; Portugal, Com. Code,
§§ 1300, 1307; 9 Weiske Rechtslexikon, '741; The Dolphin, 1

THE SCOTLAND.
Mr. Halsey's Brief for Appellee.

Flippin, 580; Die Illinot ., 2 Flippin, 383; ,Persil, Trait6 des
Assurances, 118; 2 Lewis, Das Deutsche Seerecht, 1S9; 3 OrespLaurin, Corns de Droit Marit. 446; 1 de Couder, Dict. de Droit.
Com. 418; Cour de Cassation, 12 Aug. 1872, 1 Sisey, 1872,
323; The Potomac, 105 U. S. 630; Wood v. Lincoln, Ins. Co.,
6 Mass. 479; Oommomnealth In s. Co. v. C7tase, 20 Pick. 142;
.eynold8 v. Oeeam 1,1&. Co. 22 Pick. 191; and they deduced
from an examination of these authorities the following principles: That insurance moneys are a representative of some subject of property. To say otherwise would be a return to the
wager theory. To say they represent the physical object
insured may be open to objection. To affirm, however, that
the proceeds of tle insurance represent merely tfle premium is
unsound and untrue-unsound, because it falls back on the discarded wager doctrine, and untrue, because in reality payment
of premium alone, without right or title, gives no claim to the
insurance moneys.
Unless the insurance contract is a mere wager, its proceeds
must represent the subject matter to be indemnified. But this
subject matter is not the physi~al object destroyed. It is the
proprietary ownership, the right or title of the insured, that
insurance makes good and represents. In a word the insurance
money restores, represents, and replaces the insared's interest
in the object sustaining the injury.
It is to be noted that the language of the act of 1851 is
exceedingly broad. It does not call for the abandonmnent or
disclaimer of ownership of the French law. It requires a
transfer of interest, the exact word of Pardessus, importing a
complete cession, leaving no rights in the original owner. This
word "interest"
was a law term as early as the 12th century.
Littre', " 2 f d ' t " Grimm, " _Tn ter es s e ; " Skeat, " _An er es t .
To transfer one's interest in a thing is to confer upon the
assignee every right or incident of a right in it.
.Mr. Jeremiah Hal9ey and
for the owners of the City of
a brief on the question of the
owners under the statutes of

.Xr. J. IF. C. Leeridge, counsel
Norwich, by leave of court filed
limitation of the liability of shipthe United States and under the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

general maritime law, which substantially presented Mr. Halsey's views in the iy of -Norwich,ante 468.
_Mr. John Chetwood for appellee cited The Santa Miaria,
10 Wheat. 431; Sibbald v. United States, 12 Pet. 488, 492;
Washington Bridge. Co. v. Stewart, 3 How. 413, 424; Burrill's
Law Diet., Bouvier's Law Dict., Brown's Law Diet., word
interest; City of Norwich, 3 Ben. 575; Thommeesen v. Whitwilt, 21 Blatchford, 45; Denn v. Reid, 10 Pet. 524; Pa oi
Ins. Co. v. Ca.lett, 4 Wend. 75; Yates v. W1Fyte, 4 Bing. N. 0.
272; Lynch v. Dalzell, 3 Bro. P. 0. 431; Sadlerm Co. v. Badcook, 2 Atk. 554; Carpenter v. Providence Washington Ins.
Co. 16 Pet. 495; Columbian Ins. Co. v. Lawrence, 10 Pet. 507;
Yalin; Pardessus; The Yorth Star, 106 U. S. 17; Watteon. v.
Xaerk, 2 Am. Law Reg. 157; The Peshtigo, 2 Flippin, 466;
The Benefactor, 103 U. S. 245; The Scotland, 105 UY. S. 24;
Ex parte Slayton, 105 U. S. 450; Prov. & N. "Y Steamship
Co. v. -Hill fffg. Co., 109 U. S. 578; Howland v. Lavinia, Pet.
Adm. 123; Griggs v. Au8tin, 3 Pick. 20; .Mulloy v. Backer,
5 East, 316; XYofat v. East India Co., 10 East, 468; Matson
v. Duykinek, 3 Johns. 335; Lewis v. .Marshall,7 Man. & Gr.
"729; Gillan v. rimkin, 4 Campbell, 241. And on the question of interest, Hemmenway v. Fisher, 20 How. 255, 260;
Redf eld v. Iron Co., 110 U. S: 174; Boyce v. Grundy, 9 Pet.
275.
Mr.. JusTic, BRADLEY, after stating the case as reported
above, delivered the opinion of the court.
These points are all dispoied of in the previous case of
The City of -Norwich,except the question of interest. Were
the libellants entitled to interest on the amount received
from the strippings? In answering ,this question it must be
borne in mind that this is .not a question of debt, but, of
damages. The limitation of those damages to the value of
the ship does not make them cease to be damages. The
allowance of interest on damages is not an absolute right.
Whether it ought or ought not to be allowed depends upon
the circumstances of each case, -and rests very much in the

THE SCOTLAND.
Opinion of the Court.

discretion of the tribunal which has to pass upon the subject, whether it be a court or a jury. The record now laid
before us contains no part of the pleadings or proceedings in
the cause prior to the first decree of the Circuit Court. We
are without any means of knowing the circumstances in the
pleadings or the evidence upon which the court was called
upon to act, except the bare. facts stated in the finding of facts
before referred to. The right to a limitation of liability seems
to have been denied to the respondent from the beginning. If
it offered to pay the value of the strippings into court in its
discharge from liability, or desired to do so, it is evident that
the court would not allow it to do so, and that the libellants
resisted it with all their power. The respondent was obliged
to wait till the decision of this court in MkIarch, -1882, before
getting a declaration of its rights in the matter; and the first
move afterwards made was the attempt of the libellants to
change the whole form of the controversy by setting up the
new claim to the insurance money received by the respondent.
Without stopping to decide whether this amendment of the
proceedings was lawfully allowed after the decision of this
court, it is sufficient to say that the Circuit Court, so far as we
have anything before us to show to the contrary, may have
had very good reasons for not allowing interest on the value
of the strippings. We are not disposed to disturb its decree in
this respect.
The question relating to Interest on the costs requires but
brief examination. Costs in admiralty, as well as in equity,
are in the discretion of the court. Benedict's Adm. § 549.
Appeals in matter of costs only are not usually entertained;
but when the entire caseis before the appellate court, it has
control of the subject of costs, as well as of the merits. Tiustees v. Greenough, 105 U. S. 527; 2 Conk. Adm. Pr. 373. In
the present case, the Circuit Court by its original decree, made
in 1878, adjudged to the libellants their costs in the District
Court, amounting to $2173.10. In March, 1882, we affirmed
this part of the decree, but without interest. In affirming a
decree in admiralty in this court, if interest is not expressly
allowed, it is not included. Hfemmenway v. _2isher, 20 How.

