BOHANAN v. NEBRASKA.
Statement of Facts.

Xr. Alexander Porter .afome for the motion.
Xr.C. (2 Yonge, Sr., opposing.
MR.CH=F JUSTICE W&rrit

delivered the opinion of the court.

These motions are denied. The additional affidavits which
have been filed failed to satisfy us that the value of the matter
in dispute is sufficient to give us jurisdiction. While the aggregate of the values in all the suits may exceed $5000, it is clear
to our minds that the value of the property involved in no one
of the suits reaches that sum, or anything like it.
Denied.

BOHA-NAN

'.

NEBRASKA.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
Submitted April 12, 1886.-Decided April 19, 1886.

This court has jurisdiction to review a judgment of a State court convicting a
person of a criminal offence, when the defendant sets up at the trial, specially, an immunity from a second trial for the same offence by reason of the
Vth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
The court will not consider the merits of the question involved in a case, on a
motion to dismiss unaccompanied by a motion to affirm.

This was a motion to dismiss. The motion was as follows:
"And now comes the defendant in error, and moves the court
to dismiss the writ of error in this case for the reasons following, to wit:
"CFirst. The court is without jurisdiction to review the
judgment contained in the record, brought up in this cause,
there being no Federal question therein presented.
"WM. LEESE,
Att'y-Gen'l of Nebraska,

for -DefendantinError."
The grounds for the denial of jurisdiction were stated by the
Attorney-General of Nebraska in the following language:

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

In February, 1882, Bohanan was indicted by the Grand
Jury of Lancaster County, Nebraska, for killing one Cook, in
said county. To the indictment Bohanan interposed a plea in
abatement, asserting the illegality of the grand jury, presenting an issue of fact. The judge of the District Court denied
the accused the right to try the issue raised.
On the trial of the cause in the District Court, Bohanan was
convicted of murder in the second degree and sentenced to imprisonment for life, a motion for a new trial being filed and
overruled. Bohanan filed his petition in error in the Supreme
Court of the State, praying that said judgment and sentence
might be set aside and a new trial granted. And the Supreme
Court says:
"For the error in denying the prisoner a trial of the issue,
tniken on his plea in abatement the judgment must be reversed.
The verdict set aside." Bohanan v. The State, 15th Nebraska,
215.
The venue was changed at Bohanan's request from Lancaster
to Otoe County, in the same district, a-d on a second trial on the
indictment (the plea in abatement being waived), the jury of
Otoe County found him guilty of murder in the first degree, and
he was by the court sentenced to death. It nowhere appears
from the record in this case, either in the application for a change
of venue, or in the objections to the admissibility of evidence,
to the charge of the court as given, or to the refusal to charge
as requested, or in the motion for a new trial, the assignment
of errors in the Supreme Court of the State, or, in the opinion
fied in that court, that any Federal question was presented for
consideration, or in any way relied on before the final judgment from which the -writ of error has been taken. Such being the case, this tribunal cannot take jurisdiction.
After the petition of error was filed in the Supreme Court
of the State, the plaintiff in error obtained leave to file the
following additional assignment of error:
"That" the said court erred in putting the said defendant
twice in jeopardy for the same offence, in violation of, and in
disregard of Article V. of the Amendments to the Constitution
of the U. S.," which provides:

