UNITED STATES v. KAGAMA.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. KA.GAMA & Another, Indians.
CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION IN OPINION FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR THE DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Argued March 2, 185.-DecIded May 10, 1886.
The ninth section of the Indian Appropriation Act of March 3, 1885, 23 Stat.
385, is valid and constitutional in both its branches; namely, that which
gives jurisdiction to the cor rts of the Territories of the crimes named (murder, manslaughter, rape, assault with intent to kill, arson, burglary, and
larceny), committed by Indians within the Territories, and that which
gives jurisdiction in like cases to courts of the United States for the same
crimes committed on an Indian reservation within a State of the Union.
While the Government of the United States has recognized in the Indian
tribes heretofore a state of semi-independence and pupilage, it has the right
and authority, instead of controlling them by treaties, to govern them by
acts of Congress: they being within the geographical limit of the United
States, and being necessarily subject to the laws which Congress may
enact for their protection and for the protection of the people with whom
they come in contact.
The States have no such power over them as long as they maintain their
tribal relations.
The Indians owe no allegiance to a State within which their reservation may
be established, and the State gives then -no protection.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
-3fEr. Solicitor General for plaintiff in error.
Xr. Joseph.D. Redding for defendants in error.

delivered the opinion of the court.
The case is brought here by certificate of division of opinion
between the Circuit Judge and the District Judge holding the
Circuit Court of the United States for District of California.
The questions certified arise on a demurrer to an indictment
against two Indians for murder committed on the Indian reservation of ioopa Valley, in the State of California, the person murdered being also an Indian of said reservation.
Though there are six questions certified as the subject of
difference, the point of them all is well set out in the third
and sixth, which are as follows:
Mr. JusTicE MILLER

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

"3. Whether the provisions of said section 9, (of the act of
Congress of March 3,1885,) making it a crime for one Indian to
commit murder upon another Indian, upon an Indian reservation'situated wholly within the limits of a State of the Union,
and making such Indian so committing the crime of murder
within and upon such Indian reservation 'subject to the same
laws' and subject to be 'tried in the same courts, and in the
same manner, and subject to the same penalties as are all other
persons' committing the crime of murder 'within the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States,' is a constitutional and
valid law of the United States?"
"6. Whether the courts of the United States have jurisdiction or authority to try and punish an Indian belonging to an
Indian tribe for committing the crime of murder upon another
Indian belonging to the same Indian tribe, both sustaining the
usual tribal relations, said crime having been committed.upon
an Indian reservation made and set apart for the use of the
Indian tribe to which said Indians both belong?"
The indictment sets out in two counts that Kagama, alias
Pactah Billy, an Indian, murdered Iyouse, alias Ike, another
Indian, at Humboldt County, irf the State of California, within
the limits of the Hoopa Valley Reservation, and it charges Mahawaha, alias Ben, also an Indian, with aiding and abetting in
the murder.
The law referred. to in the certificate is the last section of the
Indian appropriation act of that year, and is as follows:
"1§9. That immediately upon and after the date of the passage of this act all Indians committing against the person or
property of another Indian or other person any of the following crimes, namely, murder, manslaughter, rape, assault with intent to kill, arson, burglary and larceny, within any Territory
of the United States, and either within or without the Indian
reservation, shall be subject therefor to the laws of said Territory relating to said crimes, and shall be tried' therefor in the
same courts and in the same manner, and shall be subject tq
the same penalties, as are all other persons charged with the
commission of the said crimes, respectively; and the said courts
are hereby given jurisdiction in all such cases; and all such In-

UNITED STATES v. KAGAMA.
Opinion of the Court.

dians committing any of the above crimes against the person
or property of another Indian or other person, within the boan•daries of any State of the United States, and within the limits
of any Indian reservation, shall be subject to the same laws,
tried in the same courts and in the same manner, and subject
to the same penalties, as are all other persons committing any
of the above crimes within the exclusive jurisdiction of the
United States." 23 Stat. ch. 3-1, 362; § 9, 385.
The above enactment is clearly separable into two distinct
definitions of the conditions under which Indians may be punished for the same crimes as defined by the common law. The
first of these is where the offence is committed within the limits of a territorial government, whether on or off an Indian
reservation. In this class of cases the Indian charged with the
crime shall be judged by the laws of the Territory on that subject, and tried by its courts. This proposition itself .is new in
legislation of Congress, which has heretofore only undertaken
to punish an Indian who sustains the usual relation to his tribe,
and who commits the offence in the Indian country, or on an
Indian reservation, in exceptional cases; as where the offence
was against the person or property of a white man, or was some
violation of the trade and intercourse reglations imposed by
Congress on the Indian tribes. It is new, because it now proposes to punish these offences when they are committed by one
Indian on the person or property of another.
The second is where the offence is committed by one Indian
against the person or property of another, within the limits of
a State of the Union, but on an Indian reservation. In this
case, of which the State and its tribunals would have jurisdiction if the offence was committed by a white man outside an
Indian reservation, the courts of the United States are to exercise jurisdiction as if the Qffence had been committed at some
place within the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States. The
first clause subjects all Indians guilty of these crimes committed
within the limits of a Territory, to the laws of that Territory,
and to its courts for trial. The second, which applies solely to
offences by Indians which are committed within the limits of
a State and the,limit- of a reservation, subjects the offenders

OO'iOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.
to the laws of the United Statespassed for the government of
places under the exclusive jurisdiction of those laws, and to
trial by the courts of the United States. This is a still further
advance, as asserting this- Jurisdiction over the Indians within
the limits of the States of the Union.
Although the offence charged in this indictment was committed within a State and not withi-n 'a Territory, the considerations which are necessary to a solution of the problem in
regard to the one must in a large degree affect the other.
The Constitution of the United States is almost silent in regard to the relations of the government which was established
byit'te the numerous tribes of Indians within its borders.
In declaring the basis on which representation in the lower
branch of the Congress and direct taxation should be apportioned, it -was fixed that it should be according to numbers,
eaxcluding.-ndiansnot taxed, which, of course, excluded nearly
all of that race, but which meant that if there were such within
a State as,were taxed to support the government, they should
"be countedfor representation, and in the computation for direct
taxes levied by the United States. This expressioh, excluding
Indians not taxed,. is found in "the XIVthi amendment, where
it deals with. the same subject under the new conditions produced by the emancipation of thb slaves. Neither of these
shed much light on the power of Congress over the Indians in
their existence as tribes, distinct from the ordinary citizens of
a State or Territory.
The mention of" Indians in the Constitution which has received most attention isthat found in the clause which gives
Congress "power to regulate commerce with foreign nations
- and among the several States, and with the Indian tribes."
This clause is relied on in the argument in the present case,
the proposition being that the statute under consideration is a
regulation of commerce with the Indian tribes. But we think
it would be a very strained construction of this clause, that a
system of criminal laws for Indians living peaceably in their
reservations, which left out the entire code of trade and intercourse laws justly enacted under that provision, and established
punishments for the common-law crimes of murder, man-

UNITED STATES v. KAGAMA
Opinion of the Court.

slaughter, arson, burglary, larceny, and the like, without anyreference to their relation to any kind of commerce, was
authorized by the grant of power to regulate commerce with the
Indian tribes. While we are not able to see, in either of these
clauses of the Constitution and its amendments, any delegation
of power to enact a code of criminal law for the punishment
of the worst class of crimes known to civilized life when committed by Indians, there is a suggestion in the manner in which
the Indian tribes are introduced into that clause, which may
have a bearing on the subject before us. The commerce with
foreign nations is distinctly stated as submitted to the control
of Congress. Were the Indian-tribes foreign nations? If so,
they came within the first of the three classes of c6mmerce
mentioned, and did not need to be repeated as Indian tribes.
Were they nations, in the minds of the framers of the Constitution? If so, the natural phrase would have been "foreign.
nations and Indian nations," or, in the terseness of language
uniformly used by the framers of the instrument, it would
naturally have been "foreign and Indian nations." Aiadiso in
the case of ie Cherokee .ation v. Te State of Georgia, 5 Pet.
1, 20, brought in the Supreme Court of the United States, under
the declaration that the judicial power extends to suits between
a State and foreign States, and giving to the Supreme Court
original jurisdiction where a7State is a party, it was conceded
that Georgia as a State came within the clause, but held that
the Cherokees were not a State or nation within the meaning
of th6'Constitution, so as to be able to maintain the suit.
But these Indians are within the geographical limits of the
United States. The soil and the people within these limits are
under the political control of the Government of the United
States, or of the States of the Union. There exist within the
broad domain of sovereignty but these two. There may be cities,
counties, and other organized bodies with limited legislative
functions, but they are all derived from, or exist in, subordination to one or the other of these. The territorial governments
owe all their powers to the statutes of the United States conferring on them the powers which they exercise, and which
are liable to be wit.hdrawn, modified, or repealed at any time

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

by Congress. What authority the State governments may
have to enact criminal laws for the Indians will be presently
considered. But this power of Congress to organize territorial
governments, and make laws for their inhabitants, arises not so
much from the clause in the Constitution in regard to disposing
of and making rules and regulations concerning the Territory
and other property of the United States, as from the ownership of the country in which the Territories are, and the right
of exclusive sovereignty which must exist in the National
Government, and can be found nowhere else. .fforphy v.
Ramsey, 114 U: S. 15, 44.
In the case of American Ins. Co. v. Canter, 1 Pet. 511, 542,
in which the condition of the people of Florida, then under a
territorial government, was under consideration, Marshall, Chief
Justice, said: "Perhaps the power of governing a Territory
belonging to the United States, which has not, by becoming a
State, acquired the means of self-government, may result necessarily from the fact that it is not within the jurisdiction of any
particular State, and is within the power and jurisdiction of
the United States. The right to govefn may be the inevitable
consequence of the right to acquire Territory. Whichever may
be the source whence the power is derived,. the possession of it
is unquestioned."
in the case of the United States v. Roger, 4 How. 567, 572,
where a white man pleaded in abatement to an indictment for
murder committed in the country of the Cherokee Indians, that
he had been adopted by and become a member of the Oherokee
tribe, Chief Justice Taney said: "The country in which the
crime is charged to have been committed is a part of the territory of the United States, and not within the limits of any particular State. It is true it is occupied by the Cherokee Indians.
But it has been assigned to them by the United States as a
place of domicil for the tribe and they hold with the assent of
the United States, and under their authority." After referring
to the policy of the European nations and the United States
in asserting dominion over all the country discovered by them,
and the justice of this course, he adds: "But had it been otherwise, and were the right and the propriety of exercising this

UNITED STATES v.. KAGAMA.
Opinion of the Court.

power now open to question, yet it is a question for the lawmaking and political departments of the government, and not
for the judicial. It is our duty to expound and execute the law
as we find it, and we think it too firmly and clearly established
to admit of dispute, that the Indian tribes, residing within the
territorial limits of the United States, are subject to their
authority, and when the country occupied by one of them is
not within the limits of one of the States, Congress may by law
punish any offence committed there, no matter whether the
offender be a white man or an Indian."
The Indian reservation in the case before us is land bought
by the United States from Mexico by the treaty of Guadaloupe Hidalgo, and the whole of California, with the allegiance
of its inhabitants, many of whom were Indians, was transferred
by that treaty to the United States.
The relation of the Indian tribes living within the borders
of the United States, both before and since the Revolution, to
the people of the United States has always been an anomalous
one and of a complex character.
Following the policy of the European governments in the
discovery of America towards the Indians who were found
here, the colonies before the Revolution and the States and the
United States since, have recognized in the Indians a possessory right .to the soil over 'which they roamed and hunted and
established occasional villages. But they asserted an ultimate
title in the land itself, by which the Indian tribes were forbidden to sell or transfer it to other nations or peoples without
the consent of this paramount authority. When a tribe wished
to dispose of its land, or any part of it, or the State or the
United Statec wished to purchase it, a treaty with the tribe
was the only mode in which this could be done. The United
States recognized no right in private persons, or in other nations, to make such a purchase by treaty or otherwise. With
the Indians themselves these relations are equally difficult to
define. They were, and always have been, regarded as having
a semi-independent position when they preserved their tribal
relations; not as States, not as nations, not as possessed of the
full attributes of sovereignty, but as a separate people, with

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

the power of regulating their internal and social relations, and
thus far not brought under the laws of the Union or of the
State within whose limits they resided.
Perhaps the best statement of their position is found in the
two opinions of this court by Chief Justice Marshall in the case
of the Cherokee Nation v. Georgia,5 Pet. 1, and in the case of
TFor.esterv. tate of Georgia,6 Pet. 515, 536. These opinions
are exhaustive; and in the separate opinion of Mr. Justice
Baldwin, in the former, is a very valuable resum6 of the treaties
and statutes concerning the Indian tribes previous to and during the confederation.
In the first of the above cases it was held that these tribes were
neither States nor nations, had only some of the attributes of
sovereignty, and could not be so far recognized in that capacity as to sustain a suit in the Supreme Court of the United
States. In the second case it was said that they were not subject to the jurisdiction asserted over them by the State of
Georgia, which, because they were within its limits, where
they had been for ages, had attempted to extend her laws and
the jurisdiction of her courts over them.
In the opinions in these cases they are spoken of as "wards
of the nation,"- "pupils," as local dependent communities. In
this spirit the United States has conducted its relations to them
from its organization to this time. 'But, after an experience of
a hundred years of the treaty-making system of government,
'Congress has determined upon a new departure-to govern
them by acts of Congress. This is seen in the act of March 3,
1871, embodied in § 2079 of the Revised Statutes:
"No Indian nation or tribe, within the territory of the
United States shall be acknowledged or recognized as an independent nation, tribe, or power, with whom the United States
may contract by treaty; but no obligation of any treaty lawfully made and ratified with any such Indian nation or tribe
prior to March third, eighteen hundred and seventy one, shall
be hereby invalidated or impaired."
The case of Grow Dog, 109 U. S. 556, in which an agree.
ment with the Sioux Indians, ratified by an act of Congress,
was supposed to extend over them the laws of the United

UNITED STATES v. KAGAMA.
Opinion of the Court.

States and the jurisdiction of its courts, covering murder and
other grave crimes, shows the purpose of Congress in this new
departure. The decision in that case admits that if the intention of Congress had been to punish, by the United States
courts, the murder of one Indian by another, the law would
have been valid. But the court could not see, in the agreement with the Indians sanctioned by Congress, a purpose to
repeal § 2146 of the Revised Statutes, which expressly excludes
from that jurisdiction the case of a crime committed by one
Indian against another in the Indian country. The passage of
the act now under consideration was designed to remove that
objection, and to go further by including such crimes on reservations lying within a State.
Is this latter fact a fatal objection to the law? The statute
itself contains no express limitation upon the powers of a State
or the jurisdiction of its courts. If there be any limitation in
either of these, it grows out of the implication arising from the
fact that Congress has defined a crime committed within the
State, and made it punishable in the courts of the United
States. But Congress haR done this, and can do it, With regard
to all offences relating to matters to which the Federal authority extends. Does that authority extend to this case?
It will be seen at once that the nature of the offence
(murder) is one which in almost all cases of its commission is
punishable by the laws of the States, and within the jurisdiction
of their courts. The distinction is claimed to be that the
offence under the statute is committed by aii Indian, that it is
committed on a reservation set apart within the State for residence of the tribe of Indians by the United States, and the
fair inference is that the offending Indian shall belong to that
or some other tribe. It does not interfere with the process of
the State courts within the reservation, nor with the operation of State laws upon white people found there. Its effect
is confined to the acts of an Indian of some tribe, of a criminal character, committed within -the, limits of the reservation.
It seems to us that this is within the competency of Congress. These Indian tribes are the wards of the nation. They

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

are communities dependent on. the United States., Dependent
-largely for their daily food. Dependent for their political
rights. They owe no allegiance to the States, and receive from
them no protection. Because of the local ill feeling, the
people of the States where they are found are often their
deadliest enemies. From their very weakness and helplessness,
so largely due to the course of dealing of the Federal Government with them and the treaties in which it has been
promised, there arises the duty of protection, and with it the
power. This has always been recognized by the Executive
and by Congress, and by this court, whenever the question has
arisen.
In the case of W'orcester v. TheState of Georgia, above
cited, it was held that, though the Ifidians had by treaty sold
their land within that State, and agreed -to remove away,
which they had failed to do, the State could not, while they
remained on those 'lands, extend its laws, criminal and civil,
over. the tribes; that the duty and--power to compel their removal was in the United States, and the tribe was under their
protection, and could not be subjected to the laws of the State
and the process of its courts.
The same thing was decided in the case of Fellows v. Black8mith & Others, 19 How. 366. In thig case, also, the Indians
had sold their lands under supervision of the States of Massachusetts and of New York, and had agreed to remove within a
given time. When the time came a suit to recover some of
the land was brought in the Supreme Court of New .York,
which gave judgment for the plaintiff." But this court held,
on writ of error, that the State could not enforce this removal,
but the duty and the power to do so was in the United States.
See also the case of the -Yansa8 Indiam, 5 Wall. 137; New
T-ork Imnians, 5 Wall.761.
The power of the General Government over these remnants
of a race once powerful, now weak and diminished in numbers,
is necessary to their protection, as well as to the safety of those
among whom they dwell. It must exist in that government,
because it never has existed anywhere else, because the theatre
of its exercise is within the geographical limits of the United

