OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

UNITED STATES v. NASHVILLE, CHATTANOOGA
& 'ST. LOUIS RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

MIDDLE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Argued April 15, 186.-Decided April 20, 188.

The statute of limitations of a State does not run against the right of action
of the United States upon negotiable bonds and coupons of a railroad corporation, purchased by the United States before maturity as an investment
of money received from the sale of lands ceded by an Indian tribe, and held
in trust for the tribe, under a treaty.

This action was brought July 6, 1880, in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Middle District of Tennessee upon
coupons, owned and held by the United States, for ifiterest
payable at different dates from July 1, 1961, to January 1,
1866, on bonds made and delivered by the defendant to the
State -of Tennessee on July 1, 1851, and July 1, 1852, and payable to bearer in thirty years after date.
The defendant filed two pleas: First. That the United States
held the coupons, not in its own right as the Government of
the United States, but as trustee for certain beneficiaries,
namely, the Chickasaw Indians, a nation of people, and. that
the cause of action accrued to the United States more than six
years before this suit was brought. Second, That the United
States was the holder of the coupons, not in its own right, but
as such trustee, from January 10, 1866, until January 20, 1878,
at which last date it ceased to hold them as trustee, and became the owner thereof in its own right; and that the cause
of action accrued more than six years before that date.
To each of these pleas the United States filed a demurrer,
which was' overruled by the court, and issue was joined on the
pleas.

By the treaty of October 20, 1832, between the United States
and the Chickasaw Nation of Indians, which provided for the
removal of the Chickasaws to the west of the :Mississippi, they

UNITED STATES v. NASHVILLE, &c., R'Y CO.

121

Statement of Facts.

ceded to the United States all their lands east of the Mississippi; and the United States agreed that those lands should be
surveyed and 'sold, like other public lands, and the proceeds,
deducting expenses, paid over to the Chickasaw Nation. The
eleventh article of that treaty contains the following provisions:
"The Chickasaw Nation have determined to create a perpetual fund, for the use of the nation :forever, out of the proceeds of the country now ceded away. And for that purpose
they propose to invest a large proportion of the money hrising
ITom the sale of the land in some safe and valuable stocks,
Which will bring them in an annual interest or dividend, to be
used for all national purposes, leaving the principal untouched,
intending to use the interest alone. It is therefore proposed
by the Chickasaws,. and agreed to, that the sum to be laid out
in stocks as above mentioned shall be left with the Government
of the United States, until it can be laid out under the direction of the President of the United States, by and with the
advice and consent of the Senate, in such safe and valuable
stock as he may approve of, for the use and benefit of the
Chickasaw Nation. The sum thus to be invested shall be equal
to at least three fourths of the whole net proceeds of the sales
of the lands; and as much more as the nation may determine,
if there shall be a surplus after supplying all the national
wants." "At the expiration of fifty -years from this date, if
the Chickasaw Nation shall have improved in education and
civilization, and become soenlightened as to be capable of
managing so large a sum of money to advantage, and with
safety, for the benefit of the nation, and the President of the
United States, with the Senate, shall be satisfied thereof, at
that time, and shall give their consent thereto, the Chickasaw
Nation may then withdraw the whole or any part of the fund
now set apart to be laid out in stocks or at interest, and dispose of the same in any manner that they may think proper at
that time, for the use and benefit of the whole nation; but no
part of said fund shall ever be used for any other purpose than
the benefit of the whole Chickasaw Nation." I Stat. 381,

382, 3s5.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

In the treaty between the United States and the Chickasaw
Indians of -May24, 1834, article 11, "it is stipulated that the
Government of the United States, within six months after any
public sale takes place, shall advise them of the receipts and
expenditures, and of balances in their favor; and also, at regular intervals of six months after the first report is made, will
afford them information of the proceeds of all entries and sales.
The funds thence resulting, after the necessary expenses of surveying and selling and other advances which may be made are
repaid to the United States, shall from time to time be invested
in some secure stocks, redeemable within a period of not more
than twenty years; and the United States will cause the interest arising therefrom annually to be paid to the Chickasaws."
'7Stat. 454.
By the treaty of June 22, 1852, article 2, "it is agreed that
the remnant of the lands so ceded and yet unsold shall be
disposed of as soon- as practicable, under the direction of the
President of the United States, in such manner and in such
quantities as, in his judgment, shall be least expensive to the
Chickasaws and most conducive to their benefit." The fifth
article of this treaty is as follows:
"The Chickasaws are desirous that the whole amount of
their national fund shall remain with the United States, in
trust for the benefit of their people, and that the same shall
on no account be diminished. It is, therefore, agreed thdt the
United States shall continue to hold said fund, in trust as aforesaid, and shall constantly keep the same invested in safe and
profitable stocks, the interest upon which shall be annually
paid to the Chickasaw Nation: Provided, that so much of said
fund, as the Chickasaws may require for the purpose of enabling thegn to effect the permanent settlement of their tribe as
contemplated by the treaty of 1834, shall be subject to the
control of their General Council." 10 Stat. 974, 975.
At the trial the following facts were proved and admitted:
The bonds with the coupons annexed, mentioned in the declaration, were purchased in 1852 by the United States, acting as
trustee for the Chickasaw Indians, under and pursuant to the
treaties aforesaid, with the trust fund therein mentioned, and

UNITED STATES v. NASHVILLE, &c., R'Y CO.

123

Argument for Defendant in Error.

were thenceforth held by the United States for the purposes of
that trust until on or after July 20, 1878, when the United
States, by virtue of the act of July 20, 1878, ch. 359, 20 Stat.
233, accounted with the Chickasaw Indians for the coupons
sued on and interest thereon, and the United States have since
claimed title to the same in their own right. The bonds and
coupons were at first in the care and custody of..the Secretary
of the Treasury under authority of law, and afterwards of the
Secretary of the Interior under the act of July 27, 1868, ch.
248, 15 Stat. 222, until after June 10, 1876, when, pursuant to
the act of June 10, 1876, ch. 122, 19 Stat. 58, they were turned
over to the Treasurer of the United States, and have ever since
been in his custody. The coupons sued on were clipped from
these bonds, and have never been paid. The bonds, as well as
the coupons payable at later dates, were paid by the defendant
as they became payable.
Upon these facts, the Circuit Court instructed the jury that
the plaintiff's right of action was barred by the statute of limitations of Tennessee, (Code of 1858, ยง 2775,) the jury returned
a verdict for the defendant, and the plaintiff excepted to the
instruction and sued out this writ of error.
3Jr'. As&istant Attorney-General MJ'aury for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. .Edward H. East for defendant in error.,
If the United States should buy or otherwise become the
owner or holder of commercial or negotiable paper already
barred by the statute of limitations, as between the original
parties, its title being derivative, it would get no better right
of action than the assignor could give, and it would take the
paper subject to all legal defences existing at the time of the
transfer. Urnted States v. Buford, 3 Pet. 30; Lambert v. Taylor,
4 3. & C. 138; S. C. 10 Eng. C. L. 293. It is admitted that the
United States' right of action cannot be barred by any statute
of limitations passed by any State, though it be named therein.
United States v. Thompson, 98 U. S. 486.
The distinction we make is this, that in all cases in which the
United States brings an action in its own name, and solely in

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

its own interest, the maxim nullum teMPU8 applies. And in all
cases in which it brings an action in its own name, nominally
as trustee, and it is not the real and sole owner or beneficiarythen the maxim does not apply. tfriller v. State, 38 Ala. 600.
The same rule prevails in the case of a mandamus to enforce a
private right. .Moody v..Fleming, 4 Geo. 115.
The maxim nullum t.npus does not apply in a case in which
the sovereign or State has sone pecuniary interest, and not the
entire interest. In illustration of this, we have the cases in
which the United States or a State was a joint or sole owner of
stock in a bank, and was either owner in part or the sole party
in interest. Bank of United States v. Xlraenzie, 2 Brock. 393;
Bank of Tennessee v. Dibnell, 3 Sneed, 379. But in this case
the interest of the United States was only as trustee for the
Chickasaw Indians. They had no interest affecting the Sovereign power, and the maxim of nullum tempuw only applies
in favor of sovereign power. Cincinnati v. EBan8, 5 Ohio St.
594. See also United States v. Hoar, 2 Alason, 311.
The statute of limitatiohs is entitled to the same respect as
any other statute, and should not be evaded or explained away.
Clementson v. TMilliaons, 8 Cranch, 72-; LRoberit v. Pillow, 8
lHumph. 624; Bell v. Morr-ison, 1 Pet. 360; Elder v. Bradley,
2 Sneed, 247.
It cannot be said that the Indians were the grantees of the
government in any such manner as to bring the case within the
principles announced in England, extending the maxim to
the grantees of the crown, as in Doe v. 1?oberts, 13 Mi. & W.
5205 and Zee v. _orVis, Cro. Eliz, 331. The government did
not own the lands, which constituted the consideration of the
trust; they belonged to the Indians. It did not grant the
bonds but bought them as trustee with the surplus funds of the
Indians arising from the sale of the lands, and which remained
after deducting expenses, and its relation to the fund was that
of a pure and simple trustee, and no other.
When a trustee has the legal title and right of action, it is
well settled that if the trustee is barred by the statute of limitations the cestuiq~ue trust is also barred, though an infant.
Tooldridge v. Planters'Bank, 1 Sneed, 297; Belote v. IT-ite,

UNITED STATES v. NASHVILLE, &c., R'Y CO.

125

Opinion of the Court.

2 Head, 703; Goss v. Singleton, 2 Head, 67; Tfilliams v. Otey,
8 Humph. 563.
The statute of limitations begins to run against coupons or
interest warrants from the time they respectively mature, and
this is so, especially, where they have been detached from the
bond. Amy v. Dubuque, 98 U. S. 470; Clark v. Iowa- City, 20
Wall. 583; Warner v. Rising Fawn Iron Co., 3 Woods, 514;
Everteon v. Bank o.f Newport, 66 N. Y. 14; Cooper v. Thompson, 13 Blatchford, 434; House v. Tennessee Female College, 7
Heiskell, 128; Nashville v. -FirstNationalBank, 1 Baxter, 402.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
It is settled beyond doubt or controversy-upon the foundation of the great principle of public policy, applicable to all
governments alike, which forbids that the public interests
should be prejudiced by the negligence of the officers or
agents to whose care they are confided-that the United
States, asserting rights vested in them as a sovereign government, are not bound by any statute of limitations, unless Congress has clearly manifested its intention that they should be so
bound. Lndsey v. .2!f'llee, 6 Pet. 666 ; Uoited States v.. Knight,
14 Pet. 301,315 ; Gibsonv. 07houteau, 13 Wall. 92 ; United States
v. Thomnpson, 98 U. S. 486; Fink v. O'1.7 eil, 106 U. S. 272, 281.
The nature and legal effect of any contract, indeed, are not
changed by its transfer to the United States. When the
United States, through their lawfully authorized agents, become the owners of negotiable paper, they are obliged to give
the same notice to charge an endorser as would be required of
a private holder. United States v. Bar-ker, 4 Wash. C. 0. 464,
and 12 Wheat. 559; Un,;ted States v. Bank of 3etropolis, 15
Pet. 377, 392, 393; Cookeev. Umnite(dStates, 91 U. S. 389, 396, 398.
They take such paper subject to all the equities existing against
the person from whom they purchase at the time when they
acquire their title; and cannot therefore maintain an action
upon it, if at that time all right of action of that person was
extinguished, or was barred by the statute of limitations. United
States v. B qfi'd, 3 Pet. 12, 30: The King v. Xforrall, 6 Price, 24.

OCTOBER TERM, '1885.
- Opinion

of the Court.

But if the bar of the statute is not complete when the United
States become the owners and holders of the paper, it appears
to us, notwithstanding the dictum of Cowen, J., in United
Statt8 v. TFite, 2 Hill (i. Y.) 59, 61, impossible to hold that'
the statute could afterwards run against the United States.
Lambert v. Taylor, 4 B. & C. 138; S. C., 6 D. & R. 188.
In the present case, the United States bought the coupons
sued on, and the bonds to which they were annexed, long before any of them became payable, or the statute of limitations
had begun to run against the right of any holder to sue thereon.
The money with which they were bought was money received by
the United States from the sale of lands ceded to them by the
Chickasaw Nation of Indians. Those lands, the money received
from their sale, and the securities in which that money was invested, were held by the United States, in trust, to be applied
for the benefit of those Indians, in performance of the obligation
assumed by the United States by treaties with them. The securities were thus held by the United States for a public use in
the highest sense, the performance of a quasi international obligation; and they continued to be so held until that obligation
had been performed and discharged, after which they were
held by the United States, like all other property of the
government, for the ordinary public uses. Van Broceklin v.
Tennessee, 117 U. S.151, 158.
The necessary conclusion is that the statute of limitations of
Tennessee never ran against the right of action. of the United
States upon these coupons, either while the United States held
them in trust for the Indians, or since they have held them for
other public uses; and that the decision of the Circuit Court
was erroneous.
This case does not present the question what effect the
statute of limitations may have in an action on a contract in
which the United States have nothing but, the formal title, and
the whole interest belongs to others. See .aryland v. Baldwin, 112 U. S. 490 ;-_.iller v. State, 38 Ala. 600.
Juadgment reversed, and case remanded, with direotions to set
aside the verdict, andforfartherproceedings in conformity
with law and with this opinion.

