46

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.
BENJAMIN'S Heirs v. DUBOIS, Administrator.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUM3IA.
Argued April 14, 1866.-Decided April 15, 1880.

A will having been proved in Missouri, a copy thereof and of the probate were
admitted to record in the District of Columbia and letters testamentary
granted. In subsequent proceedings respecting the distribution of property
found in the District, a question arose as to the domicil of the testator.
After hearing testimony, the Supreme Court of the District decided at special term that "his domicil was in the city of Washington," and "this
court has original jurisdiction in the matter of his estate," which was on
appeal affirmed. Held, That this was not a final judgment within the
meaning of the acts of Congress giving this court jurisdiction on appeals
or writs of error.
Bostwick v. Brinkerhoff, 106 U. S. 3,affirmed and applied.

The case, which is stated in the opinion of the court, arose
on a motion to dismiss whicl4 was filed to be heard with the
hearing on the merits. After commencement of the argument
on the merits, the court ordered the motion to dismiss to be
first heard.
-Yr. A. S. Torthinglon for the motion.
Xr.S. S. l'enke opposing.
MR. CIEF JUSTICE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

When thi.s case was called for argument a motion to dismiss
was interposed, because the decree appealed from was not a
final decree in the suit. The facts ar6 these:
On the 8th of March, 1877, John F. Benjamin died in the
District of Columbia, leaving a will by which he gave to his
adopted daughter, Mrs. Guy H. Allen, the wife of James M.
Allen, all his linterest in the partnership of Bigelow and Benjamin, all debts owing to him by persons residing in the District of Columbia, and all real estate owned by him in the
Iistrict of Columbia. He also gave to George C. B. Rowan
$100, and to his wife all his property in Missouri, $12,000 in
Districtof Oolumbiasix per cent. gold bonds, and other property: Joshua M. Ennis was named as executor, so far as the

BENJAMIN v. DUBOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

property in Missouri was concerred, and George Truesdell was
appointed to wind up business in the District of Columbia.
Previous to the year 1874 Benjamin had resided in Missouri.
During that year he went to Washington, in the District 'of
Columbia, where he engaged in business with Otis Bigelow,
and remained until his death. The will was first admitted to
probate in Missouri, and letters testamentary granted to Ennis.
A copy of the will and of the proof and probate thereof in
Missouri were admitted to record in the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, on the 5th of June, 1877, and letters testamentary granted to Truesdell of all the personal property in
the District. Truesdell thereupon proceeded with the settlement ofthe estate in the District of Columbia, and on the 5th
of January, 1880, Mrs. Allen and Rowan filed their petition in
the Supreme Court of the District, setting forth that all debts
had been paid, and praying that Truesdell be directed to pay
to Rowan his legacy in full, and to Mrs. Allen so much of that
to her as he might have in his possession. Notice of the filing
of this petition was given to Truesdell, to Ennis, the Missouri
executor, and to the heirs of Benjamin. Truesdell and George
H. Benjamin, one of the heirs,, answered, and in the answer of
Benjamin the defence was made that the legal domicil of John
F. Benjamin at the time of his death was in Missouri, where
the validity of the will was being litigated, and not in the District of Columbia, and that no distribution of the estate in the
District should be ordered in this proceeding until the litigation in Missouri was ended. Upon the question of the actual
domicil of the testator much testimony was taken, and on the.
28th of February, 1880, the court, after full hearing, decided
that his domicil "was the city of Washington, in the District
of Columbia," and "that this court has original jurisdiction in
the matter of. his estate." An entry to this effect was made
at special term, and George H. Benjamin thereupon took an
appeal to the general term. Afterwards a final decree was
entered, notwithstanding this appeal, approving the accounts
of Truesdell, and directing him to pay over the funds in his
hands as provided for in his account. This order George H.
Benjamin moved to set aside, but his motion was denied, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

afterwards the court at general term' affiimed .the decriee of
the 28th of February, 1880, and from that decree this appeal.
was taken.
v. Brnkerhof, 106 T. S. 3, "'the,
As was said in Bo8twi
rule is well settled and of long standing that a judginent'or
decree-to be final, "within tle meaning of that term as used in
-the.acts of Congress giving this court jurisdiction on appeals
or writs of error, must terminate the litigation between -the
parties on-the merits of the case, so that if there should be an
affirmance here, the court below would have nothing to do but
to execute the judgment or decree which had been rendered."
The effect of the appeal below from the special to the general term was to take ,to the general term for review only the
finding of the special term upon the question of domicil. Consequently the appeal from the general term to this court. brihgs
up nothing more. The suit was for the money in the hands
of Truesdell given to Rowan and to Mrs. Allen by the will,
and the litigation between the parties is not ended until a decree to that effect is entered. The jurisdiction of the court to
make the-decree seems to have been thought to depend on the
fact of the domicil of the testator in Washington at the time
of his death. The finding that such was his domicil settled
the disputed questidn of jurisdiction, but it did not decree the
payment of,any money, which was the only purpose of the
suit. It opened. the way to that end, but nothing more. If
we should affirm the decree as it stood when the appeal from
the special term to the general term was taken, there would be
no order of the court to carry into execution. No relief had
then been granted the petitioners. All the court had then'
decided was that it had jurisdiction and power to order the
payment of the money which was prayed for. It follows that
we have no jurisdiction, and
.the motion to dicirnms i granted.

