MEXICAN CONSTRUCTION CO. v. REUSENS. - 49
Statement of Facts.

MEXICAN CONSTRUCTION COMPANYv . REUSENS.
ORIGINAL MOTION IN A SUIT PENDING IN ERROR FROM THE CIRCUIT
COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF
NEW YORK.

1"
Submitted April 12, 1886.-Decided April.23, 1888.

The discretion which is reposedin the judge below as to the security io be
taken on appeal, extends not on y to the amount of the security but to tha
number of sureties to be required; and when a bond has-been taken below
with one surety, where the law provides that two shall be required, this
court will not require a new bond to be furnished for that reason only. if the
original bond is not invalidated thereby.
Jerome v. .McCarter, 21 Wall. 17, applied to this case.

This was a motion by defendant in error to compel plaintiff
in error to furnish additional security. The motion was
founded upon the following affidavit, entitled in the cause:
"STATE

OF NEW YORK,

Southern District of New York.

.

ss.:

"Michael I. Cardozo, being duly sworn, doth depose and
say: I am one of the attorneys and of counsel for the defendant in error, and have had continuous charge of this action for
him as such attorney and counsel from its commencement.
"On or about the 6th day of February, 1884, Guillaume
Reusens, the defendant in error, commenced an action at law
in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, in and for the
City and County of New York, against the Mexican National
Construction Company, the plaintiff in error, to recover a sum
of money only, to wit, the sum of. $25,000 and interest, as for
money had and received by the plaintiff in error to the use of
the defendant in error.
"Thereafter, and on or about the said 6th day of February,
1884, the said defendant in error obtained a warrant of attachment in due form of law against the property of the said plaintiff in error, in said action in said Supreme Court, pursuant to
the Code of Civil PrQcedure of the State of New York; said
attachment was duly served by the Sheriff of the City and
VOL. CXVIII-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

County of New York, and the sum of $30,000 then on deposit
in the American Exchange National Bank, in said city, to the
credit of said plaintiff in error, was duly levied on by said sheriff to secure said claim, interests and costs.
"On or about the 11th day of February, 1884, the said plaintiff in error duly appeared in said action by Theodore F. HI.
Mey er, as its attorney.
"On or about the 20th day of February, 1884-, the said plaintiff in error served an undertaking for the purpose of discharging said attachment, pursuant to sections 687 and 688 of the
Code of Civil Procedure of the State of New York.
"Said undertaking was executed and delivered by the Fidelity and Casualty Company, of New York, in said undertaking
mentioned, pursuant to the provisions of an Act of the Legislature of the State of New York, passed June.t3tb, 1881, being
Chapter 486 of the Laws of 1881, entitled 'An Act to facilitate
the giving of bonds required by law.'
"A copy of said undertaking is hereto annexed and marked
Schedule 'A.'
"Said undertaking was allowed by one of the Justices of said
Supreme Court against the protest and objection of deponent
on or about the 23d day of February, 1884.
1The Fidelity and Casualty Company of New York gave
said undertaking in pursuance of the following rule, adopted
by the Supreme Court of the State of New York, subsequent
to the passage of the aforesaid Act of 1881.
"'IRule-The Fidelity .and Casualty Company of New York
is hereby designated as a company duly -athorized and empowered by an act of the Legislature of the State of New
York, entitled "An Act to facilitate the giving of bonds required by law," passed June 13th, 1881, to guarantee all bonds
and undertakings required or pennitted, by law, conditioned for
the faithful performance of any duty, or for the doing or not
doing of anything in said bond or undertaking specified; and
any justice of this court is authorized in his discretion to accept
and approve of the sufficiency of any bond or undertaking in
any suit or action in this court, or in any proceeding, except in
criminal cases, in which by law it is provided that any bond or

MEXICAN CONSTRUCTION CO. v. REUSENS.

51

Statement of Facts.

undertaking shall be accepted or approved by any justice of
this court, whenever such botd or undertaking is conditioned
for the faithful performance of any duty, or the doing or not
doing of anything in such bond or undertaking specified, and
the performance of the conditions thereof is guaranteed by the
Fidelity and Casualty Company of New York or the same is
executed by sa~id company as surety, subject, however, to the
requirement by said justice of a justification by such company,
as such surety, through its president or secretary, in the same
manner as is required by law of other sureties. The secretary
of said company shall transmit to the justices holding the first
general term in the first department; in each -year, a statement under oath, showing its financial condition on the 31st
day of December preceding said statement.'
"On or about the 25th day of February, 1884; the complainant was duly served in said action; and on or about the 28th
day of April, 1884, issue was joined by the service of a general
demurrer on behalf of said plaintiff in error.
"The issues of law raised by said demurrer were upon the
day calendar of said Supreme Court on or about the 5th dt.y of
May, 18,-1, for trial.
"On said 5th day of May, ISSI, upon the petition of said
plaintiff in error,.said action was removed to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Southern District of New York.
"On or about the 1st day of December, 1884, said action
came on for trial' before the Honorable William J. Wallace,
Circuit Judge, upon said demurrer, and was duly tried; and
thereafter a decision was duly rendered in favor of said defendant in error upon said demurrer, but granting leave to said
plaintiff in error to answer said complaint.
"In the month of January, 1885, said plaintiff in error duly
served an answer to said complaint.
"On or about the 3d day of June, 1885, said cause was duly
called for trial before the Honorable Hoyt I. Wheeler, sitting
as Circuit Judge, and a jury, and the issues of fact and law
were duly tried; and thereupon a verdict Was duly rendered by
direction of the court in favor of said defendant in error and
against said plaintiff in error for the sum of $2T,70S.05.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

"On or about the 12th day of August, 1885, judgment was
duly entered against the said plaintiff in error for the sum of
$28,062.86; and notice thereof was on that day duly served
upon the said attorney for said plaintiff in error.
"On or about the 22d day of August, 1885, a writ of error
was allowed by the Honorable William J. Wallace, Circuit
Judge, and a citation was thereupon issued, directed to said defendant in error, returnable the second Monday in October, 1885.
This cause is now upon the docket of this court, numbered 980.
"Upon allowing the aforesaid writ of error, a bond, as security to the said defendant in error, of which a copy is hereto
annexed, marked Schedule , was approved by the Honorable.
William J. Wallace, Circuit Judge.
"The said writ of error was allowed, and said bond approved,
without any notice whatever to the said defendant in error or
his attorneys or counsel.
"MCHAEL H. COARozo.

"Subscribed and sworn to before me
this 20th day of March, 1886,
"EDG&n J. NAT.HA w,
"2Notary Public in andfor the City and
County of NVew York."
Schedule A, referred to in this affidavit, contained the undertaking of the Mexican Construction Company Of February 247,
1884, "pursuant to the statute in such case made and provided,
in the sum of twenty-nine thousand dollars, that the defendant
will, on demand, pay to the plaintiff the amount of any judgment which may be recovered in the action against the defendant, not exceeding the above mentioned sum with interest."
This was duly acknowledged, and was followed by this guarantee, also acknowledged (both being entitled in the suit).
"In pursuance of the provision of an Act of the Legislature
of the State of New York, entitled ' An Act to facilitate the
giving of bonds required by law,' passed June 13, 1881, The
Fidelity and, Casualty Company of New York, in considerati~n
of one dollar to it in hand paid, the receipt whereof is hereby'

CAMBRIA IRON COMPANY v. ASHBURN."
Opinion of the Court.

acknowledged, hereby guarantees the performance of the covenants and conditions of the within undertaking.
"In witness whereof, the said Fidelity and Casualty Company of New York has caused its corporate seal to be hereto
affixed, and the same to be qttested by the signatures of its
President and Secretary..
"Wy. M. RiouAnDs, Rresident.
"RoB'T

J. HmLz

s, 4ss't Sedy.

Schedule B was the bond of the Mexican Construction Company, with two sureties, conditioned "that if the above named
Mexican National Construction Company shall prosecute said
writ of error to effect and answer all damages and costs, if it
fail to make its plea good, then this obligation shall be void;
otherwise the same shall be and remain in full force and
virtue."
Mr. Michael HT. Cardozo for the motion, cited Nichols v. 2JfacLean, 98 N. Y. 458, decided since the undertaking of the Fidelity Company in this case was given, to show that it was
void for want of a second surety. .Mr. .Theodore F. R. 31Meyer and Xr. JosepAh H. Choate. opposing.
Mn.C=F
JusTicE WAIrE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This motion is denied on the authority of Jerome v. .2' Carter, 21 Wall. 17. .Neither the circumstances of the case, nor of.
the parties, nor of the sureties on the bond have changed since
the security was taken. All these things are now as they were
then.
.We do not understand the case of -Nichols v. Xafacean, 98
N. Y. 458, to decide that the guarantee by the Fidelity and
Casualty Company of New York, of the undertaking of the
Mexican National Construction Company for a discharge of
the attachment, is void because signed by one surety and not
by two; but only that it need not have been accepted by the

