OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

But there is no statute of. Tennessee which gives an equitable remedy in such cases. It is true, indeed, that § 5043 of
the Code of Tennessee provides that the Chancery Court "shall
have and exercise concurrent jurisdiction with the Circuit Court
of all civil actions triable at law, except for injuries to person,
property or character, involving u'nliquidated damages;" and
it has been decided by the Supreme Court of that State that
this gives the Chancery Court jurisdiction over an action of
ejectment. rzazier v. Browning, 11 Lea, 253. But this does
not efface the distinction between legal and equitable rights
and remedies, and-if it did, it could not confer upon the courts
of the 'United States jurisdiction in equity to try cases at common
law. Thompon v. Railroad Companm, 6 Wall
134;
Baey v. Gallagher,20 Wall. 670.
The decree of the Circuit Court is accordingly
Aflarmed without 'rejudice to the right of the a~iopeZlant to
&ringan action at law.

SPRAIGUE & Others. v. THOMPSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPEME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
Argued April 5,1886.-Decided April 28, 1886.

Section 1512 of the code of Georgia which provides that "any person, master,
or commander of a ship or vessel bearing toward any of the ports or harbors of this State, except coasters in this State, and between the ports of
this State aid those of South Carolina, and between the ports of this
State and those of Florida, who refuses to receive a pilot on board, shall
be liable, on his arrival in such port in this State, to pay the first pilot who
may have offered his services outside the bar, and exhibited his license
as a pilot, if demanded by the master, the full rates of pilotage established
by law for such vessel," conflicts with the Constitution of the United
States, and is annulled and abrogated by the provision in Rev. Stat.
§ 4237, that "no regulations or provisions shall be adopted by any State
which shall make any discrimination in the rate of pilotage orhalf-pilotage
between vessels sailing between the ports of one State and vessels sailing between the ports of different States, or any discrimination against
vessels propelled in whole or in part by steam, or against national vessels

SPRAIGUZE v. THOMPSON.
Opinion of the Court
,of the United States ; and all existing regulations or provisions making
any such discrimination are annulled and abrogated."
A vessel owned in Philadelphia and running between Philadelphia and Savannah was licensed as a coastwise steam vessel. The master held a license
as pilot under Title LII. Rev. Stat. The owners employed S (a Savannah
pilot also licensed under the laws of the United States to conduct vessels
over Tybee Bar and up the Savannah-River), as their regular pilot to conduct the vessel through those waters, with pay from the time of leaving
Philadelphia. T, licensed as a pilot under the laws of Georgia, spoke the
vessel off Cape Romain, before any other pilot spoke it, and tendered his
services to conduct it over the bar and up the rivers and they were refused.
Subsequently S met the vessel under the general arrangement and piloted
it over the bar and up the river. Held: That pursuant to the provisions
of Rev. Stat. §§ 4401, 4444, the vessel, both when T tendered his services,
and when it passed over the bar and up the river, was under the lawful
control and direction of a pilot licensed under the laws of the United States,
and could not be required to take a pilot licensed under the provisions of
the laws of Georgia.
If a clause in a statute which violates the Constitution cannot be rejected
without causing the act to enact what the legislature never intended, the
whole statute must fall.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Xr.Henry B. Tompkin8 for plaintiffs in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
M .JusTicE M TTmrws delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action at law, begun by the defendant in error,
in a magistrate's court in Chatham County, Georgia, against
the plaintiffs in error, to recover $93.16, claimed to be due
under the pilotage laws of Georgia, for inward pilotage on
account of the steamer Saxon, of which the defendants were
owners, the vessel having been spoken by the pilot while she
was bearing toward the port of Savannah, and his services
offered outside of Tybee Bar, and refused, the vessel having
arrived in port piloted by another Savannah pilot, who spoke
her and entered on the discharge of his duties as pilot on the
same day, but subsequently to the tender by the plaintiff below
of his services.
There was a judgment in favor of the plaintiff bblow in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

magistrate's court for the amount claimed, which was reversed
on appeal by the Superior Court of Chatham County, which
judgment was in its turn reversed by the Supreme Court of
Georgia, which ordered judgment to be entered for the. plaintiff below. To reverse this judgment this writ of error is
brought.
The case was submitted and decided upon an agreed statement of facts, as follows:
"It is agreed between the parties to the above-entitled cause
that the same shall be tried on appeal in the Superior Court of
Chatham County, on the following state of facts before the
court, without a jury: That the steamship Saxon is a licensed
coastwise steam vessel engaged in the trade betweeiiPhiladelphia and Savannah, and belongs to Spraigue, Soullee &-Co.; that
on the 9th day of August, 1881, she was engaged in a voyage
from Philadelphia, _Pennmsylvania, to Savannah, Georgia, and
that S. W. Snow was her master ; .that said iaster Wqas duly
licensed, under title 52 of the Revised Statutes of the U. S., as
inaster of a steam vessel, and as a pilot also, but that his certificate as pilot did not include Tybee Bar and Savannah River,
but that his certificate was for the Atlantic coast, and that his
certificate as master and pilot was issued last November.
"That said steamship ' Saxon' was sppken by plaintiff off
Cape Romain on the 9th day of August, 1881, and his services
were tendered to said master of said steamship ISaxon' as a
pilot for Savannah River and Tybee Bar, and that at the time
his said services were offered there was no pilot for Tybee Bar
or Savannah River on board said steamship, and that said
plaintiff was the first pilot who spoke said vessel on her said
trip to Savannah.7 It was further admitted by counsel at the
hearing that Philadelphia was the home port of said steamer
'Saxon,' and that the captains and masters of the Ocean
Steamship Company steamers, whose home port is Savannah,
have each a license from the United States authorities at
Savannah to pilot their vessels up and down the Savannah
River over and from the bar to the city; that said pilot was
duly commissioned by the commissioners of pilotage for the
Savannah River and Tybee Bar, and was also duly commis-

SPRAIGUE N. THOMPSON.
Opinion of the Court.

sioned by the U. S. inspectors to conduct steam vessels over
Tybee Bar and up Savannah River and within that limit; that
Thompson went out to meet the I Saxon,being advised of her
departure from PhilUAelphia, and his services were refused;
that the defendant had procured. the services of Walter W.
Smith, a pilot who was duly licensed for the Savannah River
and Tybee Bar by the commissioners of pilotage, and who was
also duly licensed by the U. S. to conduct steam vessels over
Tybee Bar and up Savannah River, and had notified the
captain of said steamship ' Saxon' to stop at the Martin's Industry lightship and take said Walter W. Smith on board to
pilot said steamship over Tybee Bar and up Savannah River;
that said Walter W. Smith was employed as the regular pilot of
steamer ' Saxon,' and was under pay from [the] time said vessel
left Philadelphia; that said pilot was taken on board said stdkmship on [the] tenth day of August off the Martin's Industry
lightship, and he piloted the said vessel to the city of Savannah
and has continued in the employ of said vessel from that time
until the present time as pilot. That Cape Romain is on the
South Carolina coast north of Charleston, and that Martin's Industry lightship is north of Tybee Bar and off the South Carolina coast. That Walter W. Smith was in Savannah when the
'Saxon' left Philadelphia, and was not piloting the 'Saxon'when she was spoken by the plaintiff, but met her afterwards
and was taken. That said steamship ' Saxon' drew seventeen
feet six inches of water, and that according to rates of pilotage
for Tybee Bar and river of Savannah $93.17 was a proper
charge for piloting a vessel of such draft up to Savannah
City.)
The claim of the defendant in error for pilotage, arising upon
the foregoing case, is based on § 1512 of the Code of Georgia,
which is as follows:
"Any person,, master, or commander of a ship or vessel
bearing toward any of the ports or harbors of this State, except coasters in this State, and between the ports of this State
and those of South Carolina, and between the ports -of this
State and those of Florida, who refuses to receive a pilot
on board, shall be liable, on his arrival in such port in this

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

State, to pay the first pilot who may have offered his services
outside the bar, and exhibited his license as a pilot, if demanded by the master, the full rates of pilotage established by
;
law for such vessel."
this provision
And the claim is undoubtedly well founded, -if
of the State law is enforceable consistently with the Constitution of the United States and the acts of Congress on the same
subject, passed in pursuance thereof.
It is, therefore, contended by the plaintiffs in error, that this
provision of the Georgia Code is invalid, on the ground that it
is inconsistent with the laws of the United States regulating the
same subject.
I Section 4235 Rev. Stat. enacts, that, "Until further-provision
is made by Congress, all pilots in the bays, inlets, rivers, harbors, and ports of the United States shall continue to be regulated in conformity with the existing laws of the States respectively wherein such pilots may be, or with such laws as the
States may respectively enact for the purpose."
But it is also enacted by § 4237 Rev. Stat. that " lNo regulations or provisions shall be adopted by any State which shall
make any discrimination in the rate of pilotage or half pilotage
between vessels sailing between the ports of one State and vessels
sailing between the ports of different States, or any discrimination against vessels propelled in whole or in part by steam, or
against national ve~sses of the United States; and all existing
regulations or provisions making any such discrimination are
annulled and abrogated."
The 'section of the Georgia Code, above quoted, does contain
such discriminations as are prohibited by § 4231 Rev. Stat.
It excepts from its operation "coasters in this State," and" between the ports of this State and those of South Carolina,".and
"betweeni the ports of this State and those of Florida."
It was held, however, by the Supreme Court of Georgia, in
the case now before us, that so much of the section as makes
these illegal exceptions may be disregarded, so that the rest of
the section as thus read may stand, upon the principle that a
separable part of a statute, which is unconstitutional, may be
rejected, and the remainder preserved and enforced. But the

SPRAIGUE v. THOMPSON.
Opinion of the Court.

insuperable difficulty with the application of that principle of
construction to the present instance is, that by rejecting the
exceptions intended by the legislature of Georgia the statute is
made to enact what confessedly the legislature never meant. It
confers upon the statute a positive operation beyond the legis-.
lative intent, and beyond what any one can say it would have
enacted in view of the illegality- of the exceptions. We are,
therefore, constrained to hold that the provisions of § 1512
of the Code of. Georgia cannot be separated so as to reject the
unconstitutional exceptions merely, and that the whole section
must be treated as annulled and abrogated by § 4237 of the
Revised Statutes.
We are also of opinion that the claim for pilotage in the present case is defeated by other provisions of the Revised Statutes.
Section 4401 provides that "All coastwise sea-going vessels, and
vessels navigating the great lakes, shall be subject to the navigation laws of the United States, when navigating within the jurisdiction thereof; and all vessels, propelled in whole or in part by
steam, and navigating as aforesaid, shall be subject to all rules
and regulations established in pursuance of law for the government of steam vessels in passing, as provided by this Title; and
every coastwise sea-going steam vessel subject to the navigation*
laws of the United States and to the rules and regulations aforesaid, not sailing under register, shall, when under way, except
on the high seas, be under the control and. direction.of pilots
licensed by the inspectors of steamboats2,
And § 4444 is as follows:
"No State or municipal government shall impose upon pilots
of steam vessels any obligation to procure a State or other
license in addition to that issued by the United States, or any
other regulation which will impede such pilots in the performan ,e of the duties required by tois Title ;. or shall any ?ilotcharges be levied by any such authority upon any steamen:piloted as provided by this Title; and in no case shall the fees:
charged for the pilotage of any steam vessel exceed the customary or legally established rates in the State where the same is
performed. - Nothing in this Title shall be construed to annul
or affect any regulation established by the laws of any State

QCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

requiring vessels entering or leaving a port in.any such State
other than coastwise steam vessels, to take a pilot duly licensed
or authorized by the raws of such State, or of a State situate
upon the waters of such State."
According to the agreed case the Saxon was a coastwise seagoing steam vessel, was not sailing under register, and, at the
time when the. defendant in error tendered his services, and,
subsequently, when she passed up the river into Savannah, was
under the control and direction of a pilot licensed by the
United States inspectors of steamb6ats. 'She was, therefore, at
the time, piloted as provided by that title of the statute, so that
she was lawfully exempt from any pilot charges levied by any
State or municipal government. The section expressly'excepts
coastwise steam vessels from the regulations established by the
laws of any State requiring -vessels entering or leaving a port,
in any such State, to take a pilot duly' licensed or 'authorized
by the laws of any such State, or of a State situate upon the
waters of such State. The owners of the Saxon were, therefore, at liberty to employ any pilot, licensed under the author.
ity of the United States for the particular service in which he
was engaged, without regard to the provisions of the Georgia
Code requiring it to accept the services of the pilot first tendered, or, in case of refusal, to pay pilotage therefor. The engagement of the services of the pilot actually taken, by previous
contract, was equivalent to keeping him on board for that purpose during the whole voyage, as he was, iu fact, under pay
from its commencement; and had he been actually on board at
the time the defendant in error tendered himself as pilot, we
think the right of the vessel to reject the offer could not have
been reasonably questioned.
For these reasons the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Georgia is
Reversed, and the cause is remanded'with instructionsto take
furterproceedings therein according to law and in conformi with this opinion.

