MORGAN v. LOUISIANA.
Statement of Facts.

MORGAN'S STEAMSHIP COMPANY v. LOUISIANA
BOARD OF HEALTH & Another.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COUT OF ThE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
Argae April 26, 27, 1M.-Decided May 10, 1W88.
The system of quarantine laws established by statutes of Louisiana is a right-

ful exercise of the police power for the protection of health, which is not
forbidden by the Constitution of the United States.
While some of the rules of that system may amount to regulations of commerce with foreign nations or among the States, though not so designed,
they belong to that class which the States may establish until Congress acts
in the matter by covering the same grouncl or forbidding State laws.
Congress, so far from doing either of these things, has, by the act of 1799 (ch.
58, Rev. Stat.) and previous laws, and by the recent act of 1878, 20, Stat.,
87, adopted the laws of the States on that subject, and forbidden all interference with their enforcement.
The requirement that each vessel passing a quarantine station shall pay a fee
fixed by the statute, for examination as to her sanitary condition, and the
ports from which she came, is a part of all quarantine systems, and is a
compensation for services, rendered to the vessel, and is not a tax within
the meaning of the Constitution concerning tonnage tax imposed by the
States.
Nor is it liable to constitutional objection as giving a preference for a port of
one State over those of another. That section (nine) of the first article of
the Constitution is a restraint upon powers of the General Government
and not of the States, and can have no application to the quarantine laws
of Louisiana.

This 'vas a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State
of Louisiana.
The plaintiff in error was plaintiff in the State court, and
in the court of original jurisdiction obtained an injunction
against the Board of Health prohibiting it from collecting
from the plaintiffs the fee of $30 and other fees allowed by
Act 69 of the Legislature of Louisiana of 1882, for the examination which the quarantine laws of the State required in
regard to all vessels passing the station. This decree was
reversed, on appeal, by the Supreme Court of the State, and
to this judgment of reversal the present writ of error was prosecuted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

The grounds on which it was sought, in this court, to review
the final judgment of the Louisiana court were thus stated in
an amended petition filed in the cause in the court of first
instance:
"The amended petition of plaintiffs respectfully represents:
"That all the statutes of the State of Louisiana, relied on by
defendants for collection of quarantine and fumigation fees
are null and void, because they violate the following provisions
ofthe United States Constitution:
"Article first, section 10, paragraph 3, prohibits the States
from imposing tonnage duties without the consent of Congress.
"Article first, section 8, paragraph 3, vesting in Congress
the power to regulate commerce, which power is exclusively so
vested.
"Article first, paragraph 6, section 9, which declares that no
preference shall be given by any regulation of commerce to
the ports of one State over that of another; nor shall vessels
bound to or from one State be obliged to enter, clear, or pay
duties in another."
The statute which authorizes the collection of these fees, approved July 1, 1882, is as follows:
"SEc. 1. Be it enacted by the GeneraZ Aememby of the ,tate
of Louiicna, That the resident physician of the Quarantine
Station on the Mississippi River shall require for every inspection
and granting certificate the following fees and charges: For
every ship, thirty, dollars ($30) ; for every bark, twenty dollars
($20) ; for every brig, ten dollars ($10); for every schooner,
seven dollars and a half ($7.50) ; for every steamboat (towboats
excepted), five dollars ($5); for every steamship, thirty dollars
($30).
"SEC. 2. Be itfurther enacted, &c.,That the Board of Health
shall have an especial lien and privilege on the vessels so inspected for the amount of said fees and charges, and may collect the same, if unpaid, by suit before any court of competent
jurisdiction, and in aid thereof shall be entitled to the writ of
provisional seizure on said vessels.
"SFc. 3. Be itfurther enacted, d&c., That all laws and parts
of laws in conflict with the provisions of this act, are hereby

MORGAN v. LOUI SIANA.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

repealed, and all laws and parts of laws on the same subjectmatter not in conflict or inconsistent herewith, are continued
in full force and effect."
.Ar. IT J. Leovy and .If. Joep . Afc.Donald for plaintiff
in error.
We contend that all the provisions of the act of 1882, of
187.0, and of the other acts, to which reference has been made,
that impose charges.on vessels to defray the expenses of a quarantine system, and to support a Board of Health, are null and
'void, for the following reasons:
.Frst. Because they impose tonnage dues and conflict with

the third paragraph, tenth section, of the first Article of the
United States Constitution, which declares that "no State shall,
without the consent of Congress, lay any duty of tonnage."
Steamship Co. v. Portwardens,6 Wall. 31; Peete v. 3Xorgan,
19 Wall. 581; State Tonnage Tax Cases, 12 Wall. 204; Cannon
v. A76w Orleans, 20 Wall. 580; ffenderson v. Afayor of New
York, 92 U. S. 259; Inrnan Stamhip Co. v. Tinker, 94 U. S.
238; Packet Co. v. lfeokuk, 95 U. S. 80; Packet Co. v. St.
L7_ouis, 100 U. S. 423 ; Railroad Co. v. J ilerman, 105 U. S. 166.
Second. Because, so far as they impose charges or duties on
vessels engaged in the coast trade, or plying between ports of
Louisiana and other States or countries, they are regulations of
commerce and violate the third paragraph of the eighth section, first article of the United States Constitution, which vests
in Congress the exclusive power to regulate commerce. 2
Curtis Hist. Const. 370; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 205;
State Feight Tax, 15 Wall. 232; Brown, v. 2faryland, 12
Wheat. 419; Passenger Cases, '7 How. 283, 414; Ticksburg
v.- Tobln, 100 U. S. 430 ; Packet Co. v. Catlettsburg,105 U. S.
559; Transportaton Co. v. Parker.sburg, 107 U. S. 691;
Cooley v. Part Tardens of Philadelphia,12 How. 299 ; Stean?ship Co. v. Joliffe, 2 Wall. 450; Railroad Co. v. llusen, 95
U. S. 465; Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Penn.ylvania, 114 U. S.
197; .laran v. New Orleans, 112 U. S. 69; and cases cited
under Point 1.
Third. Because, by imposing charges exclusively on vessels

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

passing the Mississippi River Quarantine Station, preference is
given to vessels from the ports of one State over those of another, and duties are imposed on vessels bound from one State
to another, in contravention of paragraph six, section nine, of
the first Article of the United States Constitution. Ini9nd
Seamship Co. v. Tinker, above cited; Guy v. Baltimore, 100
U. S. 434.
-Fourth. And we allege that said statutes are null and void,
because they conflict with the provision of the act of Congress of 1799, 1 Stat. 16, relating to quarantine, which provides
"that nothing herein shall enable any State to collect a duty
of tonnage or impost without the consent of the Congress of
the United States." Railroad Co. v. Hen, above cited;
State Freight Tax, above cited; Ward v. 3faryland, 12 Wall.
418; Welton v. Xi.rsou, 91 U. S. 275; Henderson v. .Nayor
of New York, above cited; Chy Tung v. Freeman, 92 U. S.
275; Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsyvania, above cited;
Steamship Co. v. Portwardens,above cited.
21tr. F. C. Zaeharie and -r.
ants in error.

Tiliam X. Evarts for def end-

MRa. JUSTICE MLFrn.
, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion Df the court.
The services for which these fees are to be collected are parts
of a system of quarantine provided by the laws of Louisiana,
for the protection of the State, and especially of New Orleans,
an important commercial city, from infectious and contagious
diseases which might be brought there by vessels coming
through the Gulf of Mexico from ll parts of the world, and
up the Mississippi River to New Orleans.
This system of quarantine differs in no essential respect from
similar systems in operation in all important seaports all over
the world, where commerce and civilization prevail. The distance from the-mouth of the Mississippi River to New Orleans
is about a hundred miles. A statute of Louisiana of 1855,
organizing this system, created a Board of Health, to whom
its administration was mainly confided, and it authorized this

MORGAN

. LOUISIANA.

Opinion of the Court.

board to select and establish a quarantine station on the Mississippi, not less than seventy-five miles below New Orleans.
Money was appropriated to buy land, build hospitals, and furnish other necessary appliances for such an establishment.
This and other statutes subsequently passed contained regulations for the examination of vessels ascending the river, and of
their passengers, for the purpose of ascertaining the placeg
whence these vessels came, their sanitary condition, and the
healthy or diseased condition of their passengers. If any of
these were such that the safety of the city of New Orleans or
its inhabitants requireal it as a protection against disease, they
Vould be ordered into quarantine by the proper health officer
until the 'danger was removed, and, if necessary, the vessel
might be ordered to undergo fumigation. If, on this examination, there was no danger to be apprehended from vessel
or passengers, a certificate of that fact was given by the examining officer, and she was thereby authorized to proceed and
land at her destination. If ordered to quarantine, after such
detention and cleansing process as the quarantine authorities
required, she was given a similar certificate and proceeded on
her way. If the condition of any of the passengers was such
that they could not be permitted to enter the city, they might
be ordered into quarantine while the vessel proceeded without
them. Whether these precautions were judicious or not this
court cannot inquire. They, are a part of and inherent in
every system of quarantine.
If there is a city in the United States which has need of
quarantine laws it is New Orleans. Although situated over a
hundred miles from the Gulf of Mexico, it is the largest city
which partakes of its commerce, and more vessels of every character come to and depart from it than any city connected with
that commerce. Partaking, as it does, of the liability to
diseases of warm climates, and in the same danger as all other
seaports of cholera and other contagious and infectious disorders, these are sources of anxiety to its inhabitants, and to
all the interior population of the country who may be affected
by their spread among them. Whatever may be the truth
with regard to the contagious character of yellow fever and

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Cour.

cholera, there can be no doubt of the general belief, and very
little of the fact, that all the invasions of these epidemics in
the great valley of the Mississippi River and its tributaries in
times past have been supposed to have spread from New
Orleans, and to have been carried by steamboats and other
vessels engaged in commerce with that city. And the origin
of these diseases is almost invariably attributed to vessels
ascending the Mississippi River from the WeAt Indies and
South America, where yellow fever is epidemic almost every
year,- and from European countries whence our invasions of
cholera uniformly come.
If there is any merit or success in guarding against these diseases by modes of exclusion,-of which the professional opinion
of medical men in America is becoming more convinced of late
years, the situation of the city of New Orleans for rendering
this exclusion effective is one which' invites in the strongest
\manner the effort. Though a seaport in fact, it is situated a
undred miles from the sea, and is only to be reached by vestels from foreign countries by this approach. A quarantine
station, located as this one is under the Louisiana laws, with
vigilant officers, can make sure of-inspecting every vessel which
comes to New Orleans from the great ocean in any direction.
Safe and ample arrangements can be made for care and treatment of diseased passengers and for the comfort of their
companions, as well as the cleansing and disinfecting of the
vessels. The system of quarantine has here, therefore, as fair
a trial of its efficacy as it could have anywhere, and the need
of it is as great.
None of these facts are denied. In all that is important to
the present inquiry they, cannot be denied.
Nor is it denied that the enactment of quarantine laws is
within the province of the States of this Union. Of all the
elements of this quarantine system of the State of Louisiana,
the only feature which is assailed as unconstitutional is that
which requires that the vessels which are examined at the
quarantine station, with respect to their sanitary condition
and that of their passengers, shall pay the compensation which
the law fixes for this service..

MORGAN v. LOUISIANA.
Opinion of the Court.

This compensation is called a tonnage tax, forbidden by the
Constitution of the United States; a regulation of commerce
exclusively within the power of Congress; and also a regulation which gives a preference to the port of New Orleans over
ports of other States.
These are grave allegations with regard to the exercise of a
power which, in all countries and in all the ports of the United
States, has been considered to be a part of, and incident to, the
power to establish quarantine.
We must examine into this proposition and see if anything
in the Constitution sustains it. Is this requirement that each
vessel shall pay the officer who examines it a fixed compensation for that service a tax? A tax is defined to be "a contribution imposed by government on individuals for the service
of the State." It is 'rgued that a part of these fees go into
the treasury of the State or of the city, and it is therefore
levied as part of the revenue of the State or city'and for that
purpose. But an examination of the statute shows that the excess of the fees of this officer over his salary is paid into the
city treasury to constitute a fund wholly devoted to quarantine
expenses, and that no part of it ever goes to defray the expenses of the State or city government.
That the vessel itself has the primary and deepest interest in
this examination it is easy to see. It is obviously to her interest, in the pursuit of her business, that she enter the city and
depart from it free from the suspicion which, at certain times,
attaches to all vessels coming from the Gulf. This she obtains
by the examinktion and can obtain in no other way. If the
law did not make this provision for ascertaining her freedom
from infection, it would be compelled to enact more stringent
and more expensive penalties against the vessel herself, *~hen it
was found that she had come to the city from an infected port
or had brought contagidus persons or contagious matter with
her; and throwing the responsibility for this on the vessel,
the heaviest punishment would be necessary by fine and imprisonment for any neglect of the duty thus imposed. The
State now says you must submit to this examination. If you
appear free of objection, you are relieved by the officer's cer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

tificate of all responsibility on that subject. If you are in a
conditidn dangerous to the public health, you are quarantined
and relieved in this manner. For this examination and fumigation you.must pay. The danger comes from you, and though
it may turn out that in your case there is no danger, yet as you
belong to a class from which all this kind of injury comes, you
must pay for the examination which distinguishes you from
others of that class. It seems to us that this is much more
clearly a fair charge against the vessel than that of half pilotage, where the pilot's services are declined, and where all the
pilot has done is to offer himself. This latter has been so repeatedly held to be a valid charge, though made under State
laws, as to need no citations to sustain it.
In all cases of this kind it has been repeatedly held that,
when the question is raised whether the State statute is a just
exercise of State power or is intended by roundabout means
to invade the domain of Federal authority, this court will look
.into~fheopdr&tion an4 effect of the statute to discern its purpose. See ffenderhon, v.-'Maor of Yew York, 92 U. S. 259;
M~y Lung v. .Freeman,92 U. S.275; Cannon v. .few Orlean8,
20 Wall. 587.
In the case of Packet Co. v. St. Zou8, 100 U. S.423, where
a city wharfage tax was assailed on the same ground as the fee
in the present case, the court said the fee was a fair equivalent
for the use of the wharf. "Nor is there any ground whatever
to suppose that these wharfage fees were exacted for the purpose of increasing the general revenue of the city beyond what
was necessary to meet its outlay, from time to time, in maintaining its wviharves in such condition as the immense business
of that locality required." So here, there is no reason to suppose that these fees had any other purpose or destination than
to, keep up and pay the expenses of the quarantine station and
system.
But, conceding it to be a tax, in what sense can it be called
a tonnage tax? The cases of State Tonnage Tax, 12 Wall. 204;
Peete v. forgan, 19 Wall. 581; Cannon v. Yew.Orleans, 20
Wall. 577; Inman Steamship Co. v. Tinker, 94 U. S. 238, are
all cited and relied. on to show that this is a tonnage tax. But

MORGAN v. LOUISIANA.
Opinion of the Court.

in all these cases the contribution exacted was measured by the
tonnage of the vessel in express terms; and the decision of the
court rested on that fact. In the first of them it was admitted
that the statute of Alabama would 'have been valid as a tax
on property within the State, but for the single fact that the
amount of it was measured by the tonnage of the vessel.
In Peets Cae the tax was for every vessel arriving at a
quarantine station, whether any service was rendered or not,
$5 for the first hundred tons of her capacity, and one and a
half cents for every additional ton, and this mode of measuring
the tax was held to make it a tonnage tax.
The same fact was presented in Cannon v. .New Orlean8,
though it was called a wharfage tax. The court, however,
held it to be a tax for the privilege of landing in the port,
whether the vessel used a wharf or not, and for this reason,
and because the amount of it was measured by the vessel's tonnage, it was held void.
In the case of Steamship v. Port Warden8, 6 Wall. 31, the
court held a fee payable to the port wardens by every vessel
which entered the port, whether it received any service or not,
to be void as a regulation of commerce and as contravening
the policy of the prohibition of a tonnage tax by the States.
But in almost all the cases relied on by the appellants there
was a reference to the tonnage capacity of the vessel as the
measure of the tax, and in all of them there was an absence of
any service rendered for which the contribution was a compensation; generally they were held to be imposed for the privilege
of entering and anchoring in the port.
In the present case we are of opinion that the fee complained'
of is not a tonnage tax, that, in fact, it is not a tax within the
true meaning of that word as used in the Constitution, but is a
compensation for a service rendered, as part of the quarantine
system of all countries, to the vessel which receives the certificate that declares it free from further quarantine requirements.
Is the law under consideration void as a regulation of commerce ? Undoubtedly it is in some sense a regulation of commerce. It arrests a vessel on a voyage which may have been
a long one. It may affect commerce among the States when

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

the vessel is coming from some other State of the -Union than
Louisiana, and it may affect commerce with foreign nations
when the vessel arrested comes from a foreign port. This
interruption of the voyage may be for days or for weeks. It
extends to the vessel, the cargo, the officers and seamen, and
the passengers. In so far as it provides a rule. by which this
power is exercised, it cannot be denied that it regulates commerce. We do not think it necessary to enter into the inquiry
whether, notwithstanding this, it is to be classed among those
police powers which were retained by the States as exclusively
their own, and, therefore, not ceded to Congress. For, while
it may be a police power in the sense "that all provisions for
the health,' comfort, and security of the citizens are police
regulations, and an exercise of the police power, it has been
said more than once in this court that, even where such
powers are so exercised as to come .within the domain of
Federal authority as defined by the Constitution, the latter
must prevail. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 210; Henderson
v. The ilfayor, 92 U. S. 259, 272; _N-ew Orleans Gas Co. v.
'Louisiana Zight Co., 115 U. S. 650, 661.
But it may be conceded that whenever Congress shall undertake to provide for the commercial cities of the United States
a general system of quarantine,, or shall confide the execution
of the details of such a system to a National Board of Health,
or to local boards, as may be found expedient, all' State laws
on the subject will be abrogated,, at least so far as the two are
inconsistent. But, until this is done, the laws of the State on
the subject' are valid. This -follows from two reasons:
1. The act of 1799, the main featuies of which are embodied
in Title LVIII. of the Revised Statutes, clearly recognizes the
quarantine laws of the States, and requires of the officers of the
Treasury a conformity to their provisions in dealing with vessels affected by the quarantine system. And this very clearly
has relation to laws created after the passage of that statute,
as well as to those then in existence; and when by the act of
April 29, 1878, 20 Stat. 37, certain powers in this direction
were conferred on the Surgeon-General of the Marine Hospital Service, and consuls and revenue officers were required to

MORGAN v. 'LOUISIANA.
Opinion of the Court.

contribute services in preventing the importation of disease, it
was provided that "there shall be no interference in any manner with any quarantine laws 'or regulations as they now exist
cr may hereafter be adopted under State laws," showing very
clearly the intention of Congress to adopt these laws, or to
recognize the power of the States to pass them.
2. But, aside from this, quarantine laws belong to that class
of State legislation which, whether passed with intent to regulate commerce or not, must be admitted to have that effect, and
which are valid until displaced or contravened by some legislation of Congress.
The matter is one in which the rules that should govern it
may in many respects be different in different localities, and
for that reason be better understood and more wisely established by the local authorities. The practice which should control a quarantine station on the Mississippi River, a hundred
miles from the sea, may be widely and wisely different from
that which is best for the harbor of New York. In this respect
the case falls within the principle which governed the cases of
Willson v. Blackbird Creek .Marsh Co., 2 Pet. 245; Cooley v.
2Te Boardof Tfardena, 12 How. 299; Gilman v. Philadelphia,
3 Wall. 713, 727 ; Pound v. Turk, 95 U. S. -459, 462; Hall v.
DeCuir,95 U. S. 485,488; Packet Co. v. Catlettsburg,105 U. S.
559, 562; Trany.sortation Co. v. Parkersburg,107 U. S. 691,
702; Ecanaba Co. v. Chicago, 107 U. S. 678.
This principle has been so often considered in this court that
extended comment on it here is not needed. Quarantine laws
are so analogous in most of their features to pilotage laws in
their relation to commerce that no reason can be seen why the
same principle should not apply. In one of the latest of the
cases cited above, the town of Catlettsburg, on the Ohio River,
had enacted that no vessel should, without permission of the
wharfmaster, land at any other point on the bank of the river
within the town than a space designated by the ordinance.
This court said, "that, ifthis be a regulation of commerce under
the power conferred on (ongress by the Constitution, that body
has signally failed to provide any such regulation. It belongs,
also, manifestly to that class of rules which, like pilotage and
VOL. CXViii-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

some others, can be most wisely exercised by local. authorities,
and in regard to which no general rules applicable alike to all
ports and landing places can be properly made. If a regulation of commerce at all, it comes within that class in which the
States may prescribe rules until Congress assumes to do so."
For the period of nearly a century since the government was
organized Cbngress has passed no quarantine law, nor any other
law to protect the inhabitants of the United States against the
invasion of contagious and infectious diseases from abroad; and
yet during the early part of the present century, for many
years the cities of the Atlantic coast, from Boston and New
York to Charleston, were devastated by the yellow fever. . In
later times the cholera has made similar invasions; and the
yellow fever has been unchecked in its fearful course in the
Southern cities, New Orleans especially, for several generations.
During all this time the Congress of the United States never
attempted to exercise this or any other power to 'protect the
people from the ravages of these dreadful diseases. No doubt
they believed that the power to do this belonged to the States.
Or, if it ever occurred to any of its members that Congress
might do something in that way, they probably believed that
what ought to be done could. be better and more wisely done
by the authorities of the States who were familiar with the
matter.
But to be told now that the requirement of a vessel charged
with contagion, or just from an infected city, to submit to examination and pay the cost of it is forbidden by the Constitution because only Congress can do that, is a strong reproach
upon the wisdom of a hundred years past, or an overstrained
construction of the Constitution.
It is said that the charge to the vessel for the officer's service in *examining her is not a necessary part of quarantine
system. It has always been held to be a part in all other
countries, and in all quarantine stations in the United States.
No reason is perceived for selecting this item from the general
system and calling it a regulation of commerce, while the remainder is not. If the arrest of the vessel, the detention of its
passengers, the cleansing process it is ordered to go through

MORGAN v. LOUISIA.NA
Opinion of the Court.

with, are less important as. regulations of commerce than the
exaction of the examination fee, it is not easily to be seen.
We think the proposition untenable.
There remains to be considered the objection that the law is
forbidden by paragraph six of section nine of the first article
of the Constitution, which de6lares that "no prefeience shall
be given by any regulation of commerce or revenue to the
ports of one State over those of another."
It is not readily perceived hoW this quarantine statute of
Louisiana, and particularly the fees of the quarantine officers,
do give such a preference. Are the ports of Louisiana given a
preference over ports of other States? Are the ports of any
other State given a preference over those of Louisiana? Or
are the ports of other States given a preference as among
themselves. Nothing of this is pointed out.
The eighth section of this first article of the Constitution is
devoted exclusively to defining the powers conferred on Congress.
The ninth section, including the above paragraph, is in like
manner devoted to restraints upon-the power of Congress and
of the National Government; and the tenth section contains
only restraints upon the powers of the States, by declaring
what they shall not do. The most casual inspection shows
this, and the clause of the Constitution here relied on is not
found among the restrictions of -the States, but among those
imposed upon the Federal Government. As the matter under
discussion is the validity of the statute of Louisiana, it is unaffected by the constitutional provision alluded to. Woodbury,
J., in Pasenger Cases, 7 How. 283, 54:1; The Brig Wilon
v. United States, I Brock. 423, 432; Butler v. Happer,1 'Wash.
C. 0. 499; Penvnylvania v. Wheeling Bridge Co., 18 How.
421, 435 ; Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113, 135.
We see no error in the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Louisiana, and it is
Afflrmed.
MR.JUSTICE BRADLEY dissented.

