OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

"no such vessel shall be navigated without a liensed engineer
-and a licensed pilot." The boat in question is not of "like
character," within the meaning of the statute. It seems absurd to require a man to have an inspection made of a mere
skiff which he has rigged up to take him across the river to his
shops, and to have a licensed engineer and licensed pilot to
navigate it. With all due respect, I think it is running the
application of the statute into the ground.

JOHNSON & Another v. WILKINS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE

IORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
Submitted April 26, 1886. -Decided

May 10, 1886.

The cause was submitted, under Rule 20, January 7, 1886. The court finding
nothing from which it could be inferred that the value of the matter in
dispute exceeded $5000, dismissed the case for want of jurisdiction January
19, 1886. On the 26th April, 1886, the plaintiffs in 'error moved to reinstate the cause, accompanjying the motion with affidavits in its support.
Held, That the motion was too late.

These were motions, supported by affidavits, to reinstate a
case dismissed because the amount in dispute did not appear
by the record to be sufficient to give the court jurisdictionsee Johnson v. Wilkins, 116 U. S. 392- -and to recall the

mandate.
The following were the grounds of the motion:
"First. That the subject-matter in dispute is of such value
as to give this honorable court jurisdiction, and that the plaintiffs in error were taken by surprise in not having notice of
any intention on the part of defendant in error to deny the
jurisdiction.
"Second. The defendant in error having by this agreement
submitted the case upon its merits, he is now estopped from
raising any question of jurisdiction."

JOHNSON v. WILKINS.
Opinion of the Court.

.,r.
.Alexander Porter .for8e for the motion.

No one opposing.
MR.CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.

This case was submitted, under Rule 20, on the 7th of January last, but, on looking into the record, we found nothing
from which it could fairly be inferred that the value of the
matter in dispute exceeded 85000, and, consequently, on the
19th of January, entered an order of dismissal, on our own
motion, as it rested "on the plaintiffs in error to show our
jurisdiction, either from the record or by affidavits," and this
had not been done. The present motion was not filed until
April 26th, and we are not willing at this late day to receive
and consider affidavits to supply a defect in the record which
has existed since the case was docketed on the 11th of August,
1883, and of which the appellants have neglected to take any
notice until the expiration of more than three months from the
time the court acted upon it and entered an order of dismissal
on that account. This is one of the class of cases in which the
parties are required to act promptly, after they have actual
notice of what is required of them, or they will not be heard.
to reimtate is denied.
The motiot

