OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Dissenting Opinion: Bradley, T.

PH(ENIX INSURANCE COMPANY v. ERIE AND
WESTERN TRANSPORTATION COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT -OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
Argued January 19, 20,1886.-Decided March 1, 1886.

This case is reported in Vol. 117, U. S., pages 312 to 327.
JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered an oral dissent, which is noted
on page 327. An imperfect copy of this having found its way
into print, he prepared and filed the following:
MR.

MR. JUsTICE BRADLEy dissenting.
The insurer of goods which are lost while in custody of a
carrier, upon paying the loss, is subrogated to the claim of the
insured against the carrier. Hall cf .__,ng
o v. .RailroadComzanie8, 13 Wall., 367. This being so, I think that the insured
cannot, by separate agreement with the carrier, deprive the
insurer of this right. Such agreement would be re8 inter alio8
acta and void as against the insurer. It would be a fraud upon
him. The carrier would thereby protect himself against the
consequences of his own negligence, and compel the insurer to
indemnify him without paying any premium. The owner of
the goods gives up no right himself against the carrier; but
they two agree, behind the insurer's back, that he shall have
no right of subrogation against the carrier, but that the carrier
shall have such a right against him,-thus changing the law
by their private agreement! It seems to me that this is contrary both to law and justice.

HUNT *v. OLIVER.
Opinion of the Court.

HUNT & Another v. OLIVER.
APPEAL FROM THE cIRCuTr co

T OF THE uNITED STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
Argued April 5; 6, 7, 1886.-Decided May 10, 1886.

On the voluminous facts in this case, which are referred to at length I-n the
opinion of the court, it was held that the complainant had failed to establi.h that he was entitled to the relief against the appellants which was
prayed for in his bill, and was granted by the court below.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
JIXr. Henry Xf. Duffleld and 31Wr. George F. Edmunds for appellants.
.r.

C. F. Burton and Xr. Alyred ]2usselZ for appellee.

WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.
The bill was filed by David D. Oliver, the appellee, against
Henry S. Cunningham, Garrett B. Hunt, Jacob Eschluman.
Philip M. Ranney, Calvin Haines, George J. Robinson, and
Henry M. Robinson. The following facts are shown by the
pleadings and evidence. In the summer of 1868, Oliver, the
plaintiff, was the owner of about twelve thousand five hundred
acres of pine lands, and held a contract for the purchase of six
thousand five hundred acres more from. one David Preston.
These lards were in the State of Michigan, mainly in Alpena
and Alcona Counties. Six thousand acres of these lands Oliver
bad purchased in 1866 from the defendants Hunt, Esebleman,
and Cunningham, for $35,000. He paid nothing on the
purchase money, but secured its payment by a mortgage on
the lands purchased and other lands owned by him. In 1867
he put up a steam sav-mill and made other improvements on
the mortgaged lands, and carried on the business of mar.ufacturing pine lumber cut from the lands, first with one George
W. Hawkins as a partner, and afterwards with the defendant
George J. Robinson, to whom he conveyed an undivided oneMR. JUSTICE

