NORTON v. SHELBY COUNTY.

•425

Syllabus.

and attorney's fees, was .by stipulation to abide the determination of the Supreme Court in the pr.esent case.
According to the decision of the court in the Sainta Clara'
case, the assessment upon which the taxes were levied was illegal, as it embraced items not assessable by the Board of Equalization. Of course no penalties for not paying an illegal tax,
and no attorney's fees charged for the attempt to collect them,'
could be recovered, and for a like reason the interest of two
per cent. a month claimed could mot be demanded. Besides,
the statute allows no such interest on delinquent taxes where
property is possessed by the delinquent upon which a levy
could be made for them. The collector must, on the third Monday of March of each year, make an affidavit that the taxes not
marked paid on the delinquent list have not been paid, and
that he has been unable to discover any property belonging to,
or in the possession of the persons liable to pay the same,
from which to collect them. It is only on such delinquent'
taxes that the two per cent. a month interest is collectible.
Since this case has been pending In this -court a decision to
'that effect has been made by the Supreme Court of the State.
Peoffle v. Nforth Paci Coat R. 1R. C7o., 9 .West Coast Rep.
574.

NORTON v. SHELBY COUNTY.
i,

ROi

TO THm oCicurr 'COURT OF 'THE u

rrED STATES

FO RoTE

WESTERN DIATRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Argued March 24, 25, 1886.-Decided May 10, 188

This court follows the decisions of the highest court of a State, in construing
the Constitution and laws of the State, unless they conflict with or impair
the efficacy of some principle of the Federal Constitution, or of a Federal
statute, or a rule of commercial or general law.
The decisions of State courts on questions relating to the existence of its subordinate tribunals, and the eligibility and election or appointment of their
officers, and the passage of its laws are conclusive upon Federal courts.

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.
Following the decision of the highest court of the State of Tennessee in Pope v.
Phifer, 3 Heiskell, 691, and other cases, this court holds that the Board of
Commissioners of Shelby County, organized under the Act of March 9, 1867,
had no lawful existence; that it was an unauthorized and illegal body; that
its members were usurpers of the functions and powers of the justices of
peace of the county; that their action in holding a county court was void;
and that their acts .in subscribing to the stock of the Mississippi River
Railroad Company and issuing bonds in payment therefor were void.
While acts of a de facto incumbent of an office lawfully created by law and
existing are often held to be binding from reasons of public policy, the
acts of a person assuming to fill and perform the duties of an office which
does not exist dejure can have no validity whatever in law.
An unconstitutional act is not a law; it confers no rights; it imposes no duties; it affords no protection; it creates no office; it is, in legal contemplation, as inoperativa as though it had never been passed.
The action of a minority of the justices of the peace of the County Court of
Shelby County, Tennessee, prior to May 5, 1870, did not operate as a ratification by the County Court of the previously invalid subscription of the county
to stock in the Mississippi River Railroad Company: and on and after that
day, on which the new constitution of Tennessee -took effect, no ratification
could be made without previous assent of three fourths of the voters of the
county.

This suit was brought to enforce payment of twenty-nine
bonds for $1000 each, issued by the Board of Commissioners
of Shelby County, in payment of a subscription by the county
to stock in the Mississippi River Railroad Company. The form
of the bond appears in the opinion of the court, post p. 434.
On the 25th February, 1867, the County Court of any county
through which that railroad might run, was authorized to subscribe to its capital stock. Laws of 1866-4, page 131, oh. 48, § 6; *
* See. 6. Be it fartherenacted, That the county court of any county through
which the line of the Mississippi River Railroad is proposed to run, a majority
of .the justices in commission at the time concurring, may make a corporate
or county subscription to the capital stock of said railroad company, of an
amount not exceeding two thirds of the estimated cost of grading the roac. .bed
through the county and preparing the same for the iron raiLs ; the said cost
to be verified by'.the sworn stateahent of the president or chief engineer of said
company. And after said subscription shall have been entered upon the books
of the railroad company, either by the chairman of the county court, or by any
other member of the court appointed therefor, the court shall proceed witbout
further reference or delay, to levy an assessment on all the taxable property
within the county, sufficient to pay said subscription ; and" the same shall be
payable in three equal annual instalments, commencing with the fiscal year in

NORTON v. SHELBY COUNTY.
Statement of Facts.

which power was enlarged November 5, 1867, Private Acts
1867-8, 5.*
On the 7th day of the following March the legislature reorganized the City of Memphis, and enacted that the powers
theretofore vested in the Quarterly Court should be vested in a
Board of Commissioners created by that act. Acts of 1867-8,
ch. 46, §§ 21, 25.f
This act was subsequently held by the Supreme Court of
Tennessee to be unconstitutional and invalid, and the Board
created by it to have had no legal existence. The board,
however, before it was so held had organized, and had performed the functions of the County Court until November,
1869; and among other things had subscribed in the name of
the county to stock of the Mississippi River Railroad Company,
and had issued bonds in payment therefor, of which bonds
those in suit were part. It had received certificates of stock in
which said subscription shall be made. And it shall be lawful for county
courts making subscriptions as herein provided, toissue short bonds to the
railroad company, in anticipation of the collection of the annual levies, if thereby
construction of the work may be facilitated ; and'in all other respects, except
as herein specially provided, the capital stock of said .railroad company to be
subscribed by counties, shall be governed by the general internal improvement
laws of the State.
to be made to the capital stock of
* "1The subscription authorized ....
the Mississippi River Railroad Companymay be made at any monthly term
the county courts of said counties, or at any special term of said courts :
Provided that a majority of all the justices in commission shall be present, and
a majority of those present shall concur therein."
f See. 21. Be it further enacted, That there shall be established in the
county of Shelby, in this State, a Board of County Commissioners, to consist
of five persons, etc.
Sec. 25. Be it further enacted, That all the powers and duties whidh are
now vested in and performed by the quarterly court of said county, shall be
vested in the said board of commissioners ; and in addition to the power now
conferred by law, shall have authority . . . to subscribe stock to railroads
which the county court of Shelby county has been authorized by general or
special laws to subscribe, and under the same conditions and restrictions ;
and to represent such stock in all elections for directors, and to provide for the
payment of subscription as made.

.428

I . OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Arguient for Plaintiff in Error.

exchange for its bonds, and had and has since exercised'its
rights as a stockholder.
Before the Board of Commissioners abdicated they ordered
taxes to be levied to pay these bonds, and the justices of the
peace, upon resuming functions, received the money collected
on the tax and paid the interest on the bonds, and paid the
principal bonds maturing. This wasi continued, and thus a
large amount of interest has been paid on the bonds, and a
large part of the principal has also been paid, since the County
Court resumed its functions.
On the 5th May, 1870, a new Constitution came into force
in Tennessee, which contained the following provisions: "But
the.credit of no county, city or town shall be given or loaned
to or in aid of any person, company, association or corporation,
except upon an election to be first held by the qualified voters
of such county, city or town, and the assent of three fourths of.
the votes cast at said election;* nor shall any county, city or
town become a stockholder. with others in any company, association or corporation, except upon a like election and the assent of a like majority."
"' All. laws and ordinances now in force and in use in this
State, not inconsistent with the Constitution, shall continue in
force and use until they expire or be altered or repealed by the
Legislature. But ordinances contained in any former Constitution or schedule thereto are hereby abrogdted."
A large part of the payments of principal and interest above
referred 'to was made after this Constitution came into force.
The court below ordered a verdict for the county, and from
the judgment entered on such verlict this writ of error was
taken.
Mr. Josqpk H M oak for plaintiff in error.
I. That provision of the 25th section of the Act Of March 9,
1867, creating the County Commissioners of Shelby County, by
which, in addition to vesting in them the powers and duties
vested in the Quarterly Court of the county, they were expressly
,and specifically authorized, among other things, "to subscribe
to stock in railroads, which the County Court of Shelby County

NORTON v. SttELBY COUNTY.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.,

has been authorized by general and special law to subscribe,
and under the same conditions and restrictions, and to represent
such stock in all elections of directors, and provide for payment
of subscriptions as made," was constitutional and valid, even,
though in deference to the subsequent decision of the Supreme
Court of Tennessee, the first clause of the gection should be
condemned as unconstitutional and void. And the proposition
here stated has not been passed upon or considered by any
court of that State, but is an original question to be determined
here and now.
The well-settled rule is that although parts of an act, or, indeed, most. of the provisions of it, be unconstitutional, because
beyond the scope of legislative power.to enact, yet that other provisions in the same act, which are clearly within the power
of the legislature to enact, and are severable from the rest, may
and must be saved from the .judicial condemnation.
The crucial point is, are they separable I Bankl of HamilWto
v..Dudleg, 2 Pet. 492; Packet Co. v. Xeokul, 95 U. S. 80 ; AIen
v. .ouieiana, 103 U. S. 80; Poindexterv. Greenhow, 114 U; S.
,270 ; Pre88er v. Illinois, 116 U. S. 252 ; People v. Brgg8, 50
N. Y. 553; Hagertown v. .Deckert, 32 Maryland, 369. Viewed
in the light of this principle, the provisions of § 25 of the Act
of March 9, 1867,. by which, after completely vesting in the
Board of Commissioners the entire powers which inhered in the
County Court, it proceeded to confer upon the Commissioners,
in addition, certain express- powers, which were not, by the
Constittition, vested in that court-powers neither judicial nor
legislative in their character, but purely administrative, respect .
ing the business affairs of the county-and among the rest "tA
subscribe stock to railroads," &c., may well be sustained as constitutional, although the first dlause of the section, which attempts 'to substitute the commissioners in the place of the justices of the peace as judges of the County Court, be condemned.
These additional provisions are neither conditional nor dependent upon the first clause, nor is the first clause conditional or
dependent upon them.
The court will not fail to observe that here is an act of more
than forty sections, making a radical change in the affairs of

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the county, and only the first clause of § 25 has been challenged. Outside of the sections providing for the constitution
of the Board of County Commissioners, all the rest of the act
stands as unquestioned law.
The decisions of the Supreme Court of Tennessee do not touch
this question. They decide (1) That the legislature had no
constitutional power "to supplant and abolish that ancient institution of the State kn6wn as the Quarterly Court, and place
in its stead a boaTd of three commissioners;" and, (2) that § 25
is further open to the constitutional objection that it is special
legislation for one or two counties; but they nowhere decide
that the Board of Commissioners, though unconstitutional in
respect of the functions of the County Court, may not have
been a legal body for the purpose of exercising the additioal
powers cotiferred upon it. And the later expression of opinion
by the court in ]cZean v. Tennessee, 8 Keiskell, 22, 237, intimates a recognition of this distinction. The power to subscribe
for stock in a railroad and issue bonds is distinct from the
power of taxation. PoliceJuryv. Britton, 15 Wall. 566; Clairborne County v. Brooks, 111 U. S. 400; United States v. New
Orean, 98 U. S. 381.' And there is nothing in the Constitution of Tennessee restricting the power of the Legislature to
designate any agent it may select to execute the former power.
Louisville & -NashvilleRailroad Co. v. County Court,1 Sneed,
677. See also United States v. Baltimore & Ohio RailroadCo.,
.17 Wall. 322.
I. Even though § 25 of the act of March 9, 1867, should be
condemned as unconstitutional in all its parts, yet the subscription to the stock made by the commissioners, and the
bonds 'issued by them while in the undisturbed tenure of their
office as justices of the County Court, are good and binding' as
regards third persons and the public, including the holders of
the bonds, as' the acts of a defacto court or of defacto officers.
It is clear on the face of the act, and is admitted by the
pleadings that the legislature intended to confer upon the
county power to subscribe for the stock and issue the bonds; and
that this power was assumed and exercised by the commissioners on behalf of the county, and that their acts were sustained

NORTON v. SIELBY COUNTY.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

by the State authorities. It must be also noted that the identity of the court with all its povers, functions, aud jurisdiction
was preserved by the act of March 9, 1867. -The change the
act made was in providing commissioners as judges in the
place of justices of the peace. Although the tenure of office
of the commissioners may have been unconstitutional and
illegal, they were defacto officers, and their acts as such were,
as to the public and third persons, as binding as the acts of the
justiceg of the peace assembled in the County Court would
have been if the statute installing the Commissioner in their
place had not been passed. Cooes v. Balsey, 16 Pet. 71 ; County
of Rail8 v. .Dougla8, 105 U. S. '728. The decision of the
Supreme Court of Tennessee in the Butterwortk Case (not yet
reported) is utterly at variance with these decisions of this
court, and with the great array of authorities. The only case
cited by the court in support of it is Hildr-th v. .'Intire,
1 J. J. Marsh. 206, which arose under circumstances so peculiar as to deprive it of any weight as an authority on the
general questioii. And the other cases relied upon, Carlton v,
People, 10 Mich. 250; Ex, Parte Strang, 21 Ohio St. 610, and
Hoojper v. Goodwin, 48 Maine, 79, fail to sustain the point
relied upon. On the other hand, the great leading case of
State v. Carroll,38 Conn. 449 j and the cases of Brown v.O' Connell, 36 Conn. 432; TayZor v. Skrine, 3 Brevard, 516; People
v. Wnite, 24 Wend. 520; Clark v. Commonwealth, 29 Penn. St.
129; and Commonwealth v. .AHoComb8, 56 Penn. St. 436, all
cited in the Connecticut case, support the proposition that the
acts of an officer holding, under an unconstitutionallaw, are
valid and binding as regards the public and third persons,
until such law is adjudged to be unconstitutional. See also
State v. Bloom, 17 Wis. 521; Demarest v Wirekham, 63 . Y.
320; imball v. Alcorn, 45 .Miss. 151 ; Fleming v. 3futhall, 9
Missouri App. 71 ; Wfood8ide v. Fagg, 71 Jaine, 207 ; Saeehan's
Ca8e, 122 Mass. 445; .Fowler v. Bebee, 9 Mass. 231. The
courts of Tennessee have acquiesced in this doctrine. Ward
v. The State, 2 Coldwell, 605; Blackburn v. The State, 3
Head, 690.
II. By the acts of the County Court subsequent to their

432

(YCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Plaintf in Error.

reinstatement,- which took place November, 15, 1869, 'the
.previous issue of the bonds -was ratified by the county.
(a) Full legislative authority having been given to the
county to issue the bonds, a defect in the channel by which
they were issued can be cured by ratification. Balls County
Cbult v. United States, 105 U. S. 733; County of Davies v.
Huidekooper, 98 U, S. 98 ; Sypervi8or v. Schenck, 5 Wall. 772;
County of Scotland v. Thomas, 94 U. S. 682.- The cases of
3farsh v. Fulton x o., 10 Wall. 676; Loam Association v.
Topeka, 20 Wall. 655; Thompson v. Pem.'ne, i03 U. S. 806;
,farmhrnan v. Bates County, 92 U. S. 569; Lewi8 v. Shreveport, 108 U. S. 282; 'Ottawa v. Carey, 108 U. S. 110, were all
cases where either there was no grant whatever of legislative
authority, or where the authority was granted upon a condition which never took place.
(b) The proviqion in the constitution of 1870 was not equivalent to a prohibition to ratify or validate subscriptions already
made, or bonds issued prior to the adoption of the amendment.
It related tofuture loans andfuture subscripti6ns.
IV. The transactions between the County Court and the
Paducah and Gulf Railroad Company, as represented by the
plaintiff, in October, 1871, in reliance upon which*transactions
that company was .consolidated with the Mississippi River
Railroad Company, and the bonds of the latter company, now
in 'suit, subsequently purchased by the plaintiff, estop the
county from questioning the validity of the bonds in hishands.
V. The decisions of the Supreme Court of Tennessee, declaring the act of March 9, 1867, establishing a board of commissioners for Shelby County, unconstitutional and void are
not binding upon this court, which is entitled to examine the
question de novo; and the act itself was constitutional. They
are at variance with the prior cases of .Xoore v. he State, 5
Sneed, 510; Wilcox v. :he State, 3 Heiskell, 110 ; and the subsequent case of Halsey v. Gaines, 2 B. J. Lea, 319.
Iri . D. . Poston for plaintiff in error (iMr. IF -. Poston
was with him on his brief) cited, in addition to the cases cited

NORTON v. SHELBY COUNTY.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Caioate,the following-Upon the question of authority:
by XrA.
County of Tipton v. Locomotive Works, 103 U. S. 523; Fargason v. Lauderdale Co., 7 Lea. 15.; Bell v. Bank of Nahville;
Peck (Tenn.), 269; ffope v. Deaderi6k, 8 Hurmphries, 1;
Blomfr v. Stolley, 5 McLean, 158; Pine Grove v. Talcott 19
Wall. 666; _Hartford Bridge Co. v. Union Ferry Co., 29 Cen.
210;. Ward v. State, 2 Coldwell, 605 ; Venable v. Curd,'2 Head,
582; Pearce v. Hawkins, 2 Swan, 87; Brown v. Lant,- 37
Maine, 423; ltcKintry v. Tanner, 9 Johns. 135; Buckham v.
Ruggles, 15 Mass. 180; Havermeye&"v. Iowa County, 3 Wall.
294; Ohio Iffe & Trust Co. v. Debolt, 16 How. 416; Cass;
County v. Johnston, 95 U. S.360; -Douglass County v. Pike;
101 U. S. 679; Groves v. Slaughter, 15 Pet.-449; Rowan v.
Rlunnells, 5 How. 134; Planter'sBank v. Shap, 6 HQvw. 301 ;
State Bank v. Eknoq, 16 How. 369; Butz v. -Muscatine, 8
Wall. 575; Oleott v. Supervisors, 16 Wall. 678; Phildelphia
v. Field, .8 Penn St. 320; Darlington-v. ]Mayor, 31 N. Y.
164; People v. Flagg,46 N. Y. 401; Gui ford v. Supervisors,
13 N. Y. (3 Kern.) 143; Luehrmann v. Taxing -District,-2
Lea, 425. On the question of ratification: AfecCraekera"v.San
Francisco, 16 Cal. 591; Seago -v. artin, 6'Heiskell; '308;
O'Conner v. Carver, 12 Heiskell, 436; Iloyd v. Brewster, 4
Paige, 537; Oil Works v. Jefferson, 2 Lea, 581; Walker V.
Walker, 7 Baxter, 260; NYugent v. Supervisors, 1-9'Wall. 24"1;
State v. Anderson Co., 8 -Baxter, 249; Pendleton County v,
Amy, 13 Wall. 2P7; County of Bay v. Vansycle, 96'U. S. '675;Johnson v. Stark County, 24 Ill. 75, 90; Keithsburg v. Frick, 34
l 405,421; Hart v. Dixon., 5 Lea, 336; Hatten v. Stewart,.
2 Lea, 233; Brownson, v. Chappvell, 12 Wall. 681; Countyof
(Callaway'v. Foster, 93 U. S. 567; County'qf Scotland v.
Thomas, 94 U. S. 628; County of Henlry v. icolay, 95 U. S.
619; County of XAacon v. Shores, 97 U. S. 272" County of,
Schuyler v. Thomas, 98 U. S.169 ; Stperv sors v. Galbraith, 99U. S. 214; Farfield v. Gallatin County, 100 U. S.471 Callens
v. :East Tenn., Fa.\& Geo. Railroad,9 Ileiskell, 841..
fr. W. B. Glis,son, .ilr. R. D. Jordan,and -.Xr. Julius A.
Taylor for defendant in error.
VOL. cxVII-28

OCTOBER TERM,. 1885..
Opinion of the Court.

]fr. JUSTioE,FIELD delivered the opinion of'the coqrt.
This is an action upon twenty-nine bonds, of $10010 each,
alleged to be the bonds of Shelby County, Tennessee, issued
on the 1st of March, 1869, and payable on the 1st of January, 187V, with interest from January 1, 1869, at six per
cent. per annum, payable annually on the urrender of matured
interest coupons attached; and three coupons of $60 each.
The following is a copy of one of the bonds and of a coupon:
"$1000

UNITED STATES OF AERIcA,

Issued under and by
virtue of section 6 of an
act of the Legislature of
the State of Tennessee,
pissed February 25th,
1867, amended on the
12th day -of February,
1869, and by authority
,conferred upon the county
commissioners of Shelby
County by section 25 of
an act passed March 9th,
,1867.

of Tenna8ee,
(Vignette.)

$1000

A special tax is levied
b authority of law upon
bye
all the taxable property
in the county of Shelby,
to meet the principal and
interes of these bonds,
collectible in equal annual
instalments running
through six years, as the
bonds themselves mature.

Shelby County Railroad Bond No. 176.
Be it known that the county: of Shelby, State of Tennessee, is indebted to the Mississippi River Railroad Company or bearer in the sum of one thousand dollars, payable
in the city of Memphis on the first day of January, eighteen hundred and seventy-three, with interest at the rate
of six per cent. per annum from January 1, 1869, payable
annually in said city upon surrender of the matured
interest coupons hereto attached.
This is one of three hundred $1000 bonds, all of the
same denomination and rate of interest, issued by Shelby
County in payment of a subscription of. three hundred
thousand dollars to the Mississippi River Railroad Company, made by the county commissioners under the
authot'ity of the acts above recited, transferable by delivery
and redeemable in six years, at the rate of fifty thousand
dollars a year, commencing January 1, 1870.

NORTON v. SHEI4BY COUNTY.

435,

Opinion of the Court.

Dated at the city of Memphis, county of Shelby, State of
Tennessee, the first day of March, 1869.
[Seal County Court of Shelby County, Tenn.]

BAiBouR LEwis,

.Presidentof the Board of County Cdmmissionerm
of Shelby County.
JNo. LoAG E,

Clerk of County Court of Shelby Countyj."
"$60

$60

STATE OF TENxESSEE,

Shelby County.
Coupon No.

-

of Bond No. 264.

The trustee of Shelby County will pay to the bearer sixty
dollars in the city of Memphis on the 1st day of January, 18T5¢
being interest due on bond No. 264, for $1000, of bonds issued
to Mississippi River Railroad Company.
[Seal County Court of Shelby County, Tenn.]

(Signed)

JOHN LOAGUE,

Clerk of Sed by County Court."
The plaintiff contends1st. That the commissioners, by whose directions the bonds.
were issued, and whose president signed them, were lawful 6ffcers of Shelby County, and authorized under the acts mentioned
in the heading of the bonds, to represent and bind the dounty
by the subscription to the railroad company, and that the bonds
issu6d were, therefore, its legal obligations'
2d. That if the commissioners were not officers de jure of
the county, they were officers de facto, and, as such, their
action in making the subscription and issuing the bonds is
equally blinding upon the county; and
3d. That the action of the commissioners, whatever their
want of authority, has been ratified by the county.
The defendant contends1st. That the commissioners were not lawful officers of the,
county, and that there was no such office in Tennessee as that
of county commissioner.
2d. That there could not be any such de facto officers, as

-436

QCTOER

TERM, 18'85.

Opinion of the Cou-t.
there was no such office known to the laws, and, therefore,
that the subscription was made and the bonds were issued
without authority and are void;, and
3d. That the action of the commissioners was never ratified,
.and was incapable of ratification by the county.
. Upon the first question presented, that-which relates to the'
'lawful existence and authority of the county commissioners,
We are relieved from the necessity of-passing. That has been
authoritatively determined by the Supreme Court of Tennessee,
and is .not open for consideration by us.
From an early period in tliehistory of the State-indeed, from
a- period anterior to.the adoption of her constitution of 1796
-2t4o the passage of the act bf March 9, 1867, the administration
of the government 'in lo~al matters in each county was lodged
in a county court, or quarterly court as it was sometimes called,
composed of justices of the peace, elected in its different dis,tricts. The constitution of 1-796 recognizes that court as an
existing 'tribunal, and the constitution of 1834 prescribes the
,,duties of the justices of the peaqe composing it. This county
court alone had. the power to make a county subscription to
the Mississippi River Railroad Company, to issue bonds for the
,amount, and to levy taxes for its payment, unless the act of
'March 9, 1867, invested the 'board of commissioners with
that authority.; Statutes of 1867, ch. 48, § 6. That act
created the board, and provided that it should consist of five
persons, residents of the county for not less than two years,
,each to serve for the period of five years and until his successor
,should be elected and qualified. The 25th section vested in it
all the powers and duties then possessed by the quarterly'court
of the county, and in addition thereto the authority "to sub'scribe stock in railroads which the county court of Shelby
County has been authorized by general and Ppecial law to subscribe, and under the same conditions and restrictions, and to
represent sucl stock in all elections for directors, and provide
for.payment of subscriptions as made."
The validity of this act superseding the county court was at
once assailed as in violation of the constitution of the State.
Within a month after its passage William Walker and other

NORTON

. SHELBY COUNTY.

Opinion of the Court.

justices of' the peace of the county, in their official character,
and as citizens and taxpayers, filed a .bill in chancery in the
name of the State, at their relation, against the commissioners
appointed, alleging that they had usurped and were unlawfully
exercising the powers and functions of the justices, and had
taken into custody the records of the county under the act,
which the relators insisted was in violation of the constitution,
mentioning several sections with which it conflicted; and praying that the act be adjudged void, that the attempt of the
commissioners to exercise the powers of the justices be declared
a usurpation, and that the commissioners be perpetually enjoined from exercising them. The case having been-decided
adversely to the relators, an appeal was taken to the Supreme
Court of the State, and pending the appeal the subscription to
the stock of the Mississippi River Railroad Company was made
by the commissioners, and the bonds were issued. Before the
appeal was heard the Supreme Court of the State had under
consideration a similar statute passed on the 12th of March,
1868, for Madison County, and extended to White County,
whicl., in like manner, undertook to supersede the quarterly
courts of those counties and substitute in their place boards of
commissioners with the same powers as those conferred upon
the commissioners of Shelby County. The case in which such
consideration was had was Pope v. Pifer,0 Heiskell, 691.
Under this act three commissioners were appointed by the
governor, being the number prescribed to constitute the board
of White County. The bill was filed to restrain them from
organizing as a board, to have the act declared unconstitutional, and to perpetually enjoin them from acting under it.
The court states in its opinion that the question as to the
validity of the act was argued with great ability by counsel on,
both sides, and the opinion itself shows that the question
was carefully considered. The chancellor, as in the case of
the State at the relation of Walker and others against the
Commissioners, dismissed the bill. The Supreme Court reversed
the decree, and perpetually enjoined the defendants from acting as a board of commissioners. It held that the act creating
the board and conferring on the commissioners appointed by

43$

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

fthe governor the powers 6f justices of the peace of the county
court was unconstitutional and void; that the county court was
oe of the institutions of the State, recognized in the constitution; that "the powers conferred by it upon the justices of
the peace in their collective capacity were intended to be exercised by that court; and that the power to tax for purposeg
of the county could not, by any special or local law, be taken
from the justices of the peace as a county court and conferred
upon local tribunals 'of particular counties composed of cohmissioners appointed by the governor.
This decision was made in February, 1871. In June following the case mentioned above of the State at the relation of
Walker and others against the Commissioners of Shely County
was decided in conf6rmity with it, the Supreme Court holding
that at the time the bill was filed the justices were entitled to
the relief prayed, and that the decree dismissing the bill was
erroneous, and it so adjudged and decreed. But it said that as
the act under which the bill alleged that the defendants had
usurped office had since then been repealed, and that they had
not afterwards assumed to exercise the powers and perform the
duties named in the act, it was only necessary, in addition to
what was decreed above, to dispose of the costs; and'that disposition was made by taxing them against the defendants and
awarding execution therefor.
In the same month the Supreme Court decided the case of
Butterworth against Shelby County, which also involved a
consideration of the validity of the act creating the board of
,commissioners of that county.* The action was upon county
warrants issued by the board and signed by Barbour Lewis as
its president, as the bonds in this suit are signed. The court
held that the act creating the board was unconstitutional, that
the board was an illegal body, and that, as a necessary consequence, the warrants of the county were invalid. Judgment
was accordingly rendered for the defendant. Chief Justice
Nicholson, in, delivering the opinion of the court, referred to
This case does not appear to be reported. A copy of the opinion was fur.
nished the court by counsel.

NORTON v. SHELBY COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

the two decisions mentioned, and said that they had. "determined that the legislature exceeded its constitutional powers in
assuming to abolish the county court and substitute in its place
a board of county commissioners with the powersbefore belonging to the county court. The act of March 9, 1867,,was,
therefore, a nullity alid the board of commissionets appointed
and organized thereunder was an unauthorized and ilegalbody. The act was inoperative as to the existing organ-,
ization, powers, and duties of the county court. Neither the
board of commissioners'nor Barbour Lewis, its president had
any more powers undur said act than if no act had been"
passed."
Counsel for the plaintiff have endeavored to show that the
adjudication in these cases has been questioned by later. decisions, and therefore should have no controlling force in this litigation. A careful examination of those decisions fails to support this position. The opinion that the act was invalid betain councause it was special legislation applicable only to ce
ties would seem indeed to be thus modified. But the adjudication that the-constitution did not permit the appointment of
commissioners to take the place of the justices of the -peace for
the county, and perform the duties of the county court, stands
unimpaired, and as such is binding upon us. Two of the cases,
as we have seen, were brought against the commissioners, in
one case, of Shelby County, and in the other, of White County,
to test the validity of the acts under which they were appointed,
or about to be appointed, and their right to assume aiid exercise the functions and powers' of the justices of the peace, and
hold the county court in their place. From the nature of the
questions presented we cannot review or ignore this determi-,
nation. Upon the construction of the constitution and laws of
a State, this court, as a general rule, follows the decisions of her
highest court, unless they conflict with or impair the efficacy
of some principle of the Federal Constitution, or of a Federal
statute, or a rule of commercial or general law. In these cases
no principle of the Federal Constitution, or of any Federal
law, is invaded, and no rule of general or commercial law is
disregarded. The, determination made relates to the existence

OCTOBER TERf; 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

of an inferior tribimal of the State, andthat depending upon
ith6 constitutional power of the legislature of the State to create
it and supersede a pre-existing institution. Upon a subject of this
nature the lFederal courts will recognize as authoritative the deci"
:Aion of the State court. As said by Mr. Justice Bradley, speakjng forthe court in (71aiborneCountyv. Broo Ill U. S. 400,410:
"Iis undbubtedly a question of local policy with ea&h State,
what shall be the extent and charaeter of the powers which its
various political and municipal organizations shall possess; and
the settled decisions of its highest courts"on 'this subject will be
*regarded as authoritative by the courts of the United States;
for it is a question that relates to the internal constitution of
the body politic of 'the State." It would lead to great oonfu"sion and disorder if a State tribunal, adjudged by the State
Supreme Court to be an unauthorized and illegal body, should
be held by the F'ederal courts, disregarding the decision of the
,State ourt, to be an authorized and legal body, and thus make
the laims and rights of suitors depend, in many instances, not
upon settled law, but upon the contingencyof litigation respect'ing them being before a State or a Federal court. Conflicts of
'this kind should be avoided if possible by. leaving the c6urts of
one sov6reignty within their legitimate sphere to be indepen-

•"detof those of another, each respecting the adjudications of the
other on subjects properly within its jurisdiction.
On many' subjects the decisions of the courts of a State are
•merely advisory, to be followed or disregarded, according as
they ,contain true or erroneous expositions of the law, as those
of a'foreign tribunal are treated. But on many subjects they
must -necessarily be conclusive; such as relate to the existence
'of her subordinate tribunals; the eligibility and election or appointment of their officers; and the passage of her laws. No
Federal'court should refuse to accept such decisions as expressing on these subjects the law of the State. If, for instance, the
Supreme Court of a State should hold that an act appearing on
her statute book was never passed and never became a law, the
F deral courts could not disregard the decision and declare that
it was a law and enforce it as such. South Ottawa v. Perkin,
94 U. S. 260; Post v. Su2ervi8or8, 105' U. S. 667.

NORTON v. SHELBY COUNTY.

441,

Opinion of the Court.

The decision of the Supreme Court of Tennessee as to the
oonstitutional existence of the board of commissionersof Shelby
County is one of this class. That court has repeatedly adjudged, after careful and full consideration, that no such board
eker had a lawful existence; that it was an unauthorized and
illegal body; that its meibers were usurpers of the functions .
and powers of the justices of the peace of the county; and that
their action in holding the county court was .utterly -void:
This court should neither gainpay nor deny the authoritative
character of that determination. It follows that in the disposition of the case before us we must hold that there was no
lawful authority in the board to make the subscription to the
Mississippi iRiver :Railroad Company and to issue the bonds of
which those in suit are a part.
Butdit is contended that if the act creating the board was
void, and the commissioners were not officers ejure,they were
nevertheless officers defeato, and that the acts of the board as.
a d&faoto court are binding upon the county. This contention
is met by the fact that there can be no officer, either dejure
or defavto, if there be no' office to fill As the act attempting
to create the office of commissioner never became a law, the
office never came into existence. Some persons pretended that
they held the office, but the law never recognized their pretensions, nor did the Supreme Court of the State. Whenever such
pretensions were considered in that court, they were declared,
to be without any legal foundation, and the commissioners were
held to be usurpers.
The doctrine which gives validity to acts of officers d6faoto,
whatever defects there may be in the legality of their appointment or election, is founded upon considerations of policy and.
nbessity, for the protection of the public and individuals whose
interests may be affected thereby. Offices are created for tho
benefit of the public, and private parties are not permitted, to
inquire into the title of persons clothed with the evideoce of
such offices and in apparent possession of their. powers and
functions., For the good order and peace of society their authority is to be respected and obeyed until in some regular
mode prescribed by law their title is investigated and deter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

mined. It is manifest that endless confusion would result if in
every proceeding before such officers their title could be called
in question. But the ide& of an officer implies the existence of
an office which he holds. It would be a misapplication of
terms to call one an officer who holds no office, ahd a public
,office can exist only by force of law. This seems to us so obv ious that we should hardly feel called upon to consider any
-bAverse opinion on the subject but for the earnest contention
of 'plaintifF's counsel that such existence is not essential, and
that it is sufficient if the office be provided for by any legislative enactment, however invalid. Their position is, that a legislative act, though unconstitutional, may in terms create an
o'bffice, and nothing further than its apparent existence is nec'essary to give validity to the acts of its assumed incumbent..
That position, although not stated in this broad form, amounts
to nothing else. It is difficult to meet it by any argument be-.
yond this statement. An unconstitutional act is not a law; it
confers no rights ; it imposes no duties ; it affords no pzotection; it creates no office; it is, in legal contemplation, as inoperative as though it -had never been passed.
In Hildreta v. x'fintre, 1 J. J. Marsh. 206, we have a
decision from the Court of Appeals of Kentucky which well
illustrates this doctrine. The legis'lature of that State at.
tempted to abolish the Court of Appeals established by her
constitution, and create in its stead a new court. Members of
the neiy court were appointed and undertook to exercise judicial functions. They dismissed an appeal because the record
was not filed with the person acting as their clerk. A certificate of the dismissal signed by him was received by the
lower court, and entered of record, and execution to carry into
effeit the original decree was ordered to issue. To reverse
this order an appeal was taken to the constitutional Court of
Appeals. The question was whether the court below erred in
obeying the mandate of the members of the new court, and
its solution ,depended upon another, whether they were judges
of the Court of- Appeals and the person acting as their clerk
was its clerk. The court said: "Although they assumed the
functions of judges and clerk, and attempted to act as such,

NORTON v. SHELBY COUNTY.
Opinion, of the Court.

their acts in that character are totally null and void unless
they had been regularly appointed under, and according to, the
constitution. A do facto court of appeals cannot exist 'under
a written constitution which ordains one supreme court, and
defines the qualifications and duties of its judges, and prescribes the mode of appointing them. There cannot be more
than one court of appeals in Kentucky as long as the constitution shall exist; and that must necessarily be a- court 'de
jure.' When the government is entirely revolutionized, and
all its departments usurped by force, or the voice of a majority, then prudence recommends aid necessity enforces obedience to the authority of those who, may act as the public
functionaries, and in such a case the acts of a de facto executive, a de facto judiciary, and a de facto legislature must be
recognized as valid. But this is required by political necessityf.
There is no government in action except the government de
facto, because all the attributes of sovereignty have, by
usurpation, been transferred from those who had been legally
invested with them, to others who, sustained by a power above
the forms of law, claim to act, and do act, in their stead. But
when the constitution or form of government remains unaltered
and supreme, there can be no de facto department, or defazto
office. The acts of the incumbents of such departments 'or
office cannot be enforced conformably to the constitution, and
can be regarded as valid only when the government is overturned. When there is a constitutional executive and legis!
lature, there cannot be any other than a constituti6nal judiciary.'
Without a total revolution there can be no such political
solecism in Kentucky as a de facto ' court of appeals. There
can be no such court whilst the constitution has life and power.
There has been none such. There might be under our constitution, as there have been, ' defacto' officers. But there never
was and never can be, under the present constitution, a 'de
facto' office." And the court held that the gentlemen who
acted as judges of the legislative tribunal were not incumbents
of de jure or do facto offices, nor were they d facto officers,
of dejure offices, and the order below was reversed.
In some respects the case at bar resembles this one fron Ken-

,44 4

4OdTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimion of tie Court.

tucky. Under thd constitution of Tennessee there was but one
county court. - That was composed of the justices of the county
elected in their respective districts. The commissioners appointed' under the act of March 9, 1867, by the goverhor were
not. such justices, and could not hold such court, any more than
the'legislative tribunal'-of Kentucky could hold the Court of
4ppeals of that State. In ASh/Iby County v. Butmvorth, from
the opinion in which we have already quoted, Chief Justice
Nidholsoii, speaking of the claim that Barbour Lewis, the Presi-I
dent of the iBoard of County Commissioners, was a de acto
officer, after referring to the decisions of the Supreme Court of
the State holding that the board-of commissioners was an illegal and unconstitutional body, said: "This left the organization of the county court in its former integrity, with its officers
'eutitled to their offices and creating no vacancy to be filled by
-the illegal action under the act of 1867. It follows that Bar- bour Lewis could not be a Jefacto officer, as there was no legal
*board of which he could be president, and as there was no va,.ircy in,,the legal organization. The warrants issued. by him
.,iilow t6e character in which he was acting, and repel the presu.nption that he was -a defacto officer. -He could be under
the cir'cumstances, as we can judicially know from the law and
'ieadings ir the case, nothing but a usurper. There must be
'legal ofce in existence, which is being improperly held, to
giveto the acts of such incumbent the validity of an officer de
'Numerous cases are cited in which expressions are used
vVblich, read apart from the facts of the cases, seemingly give
*support to the position of counsel. But, when read in connection with The facts, they will be seen to apply only to the in,,validity, irregularity, or unconstitutionality of the mode by
which the party was appointed or elected to a legally existing
office. -None of them sanctions the doctrine that there can be
a defacto office under a- constitutional government, and that
the acts of the incumbent are entitled to consideration as valid
acts of a defacto officer. Where an office exists under the
law, it matters not how the appointment of the incumbent is
made, so far as the validity of his acts are concerned. It is

± ORTON v. SHELBY COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

enough that he is clothed with the insignia of the office, and
exercises its 'powers" and'functions. As said by Mr. Justice
Manning, of the Supreme Court of Michigan; in Carletonv.The
People, 10 Mich. 250, 259, 1"w here there is no office there can
be no officer defacto, for the reason that there can be none de
jure. The county bffices existed by virtue- of the constitution
the moment the new county was organized. No act' of legi'slation was necessary for that purpose. And all that is required
when there is an office to make an officer defacto, is that the
individual claiming the office is in possession of it, performing,
its 'duties, and claiming to be such officer under color"of an
electioh or appointment, as the case may by. It is not neces-'
sary his election or appointment should'be valid,'for that would
make him an officer dojure. The official acts of such persons
are recognized as valid on grounds of public policy, and for the
protection of those having official business to transact."
The case of The State v. Carroll,38 Com. 449, decided by
the Supreme Court of Connecticut, upon which special reliance
is placed by counsel, and which is mentioned with strong.commendation as a landmark of the law, in no way militates
against the doctrine we have declared, but is in harmony with
it. That case was this: The constitution of Connecticut provided that all judges should be elected by its general assembly.
An act of the legislature authorized the clerk of a city court, 'in:
case of the sickness or absence of its judge, to appoint a justice'
of the peace to hold the court during his temporary sickness or
absence. A justice of the peace having thus been called in and
having acted, a question arose whether the judgments rendered
by him were valid. The court held that whether the law was
constitutional or not, he was an officer de facto, and, as such, hi4
acts were valid. The opinion of Chief Justice Butler is an elaborate and admirable statement of the law, with a review of the
English and American cases, on the validity of the acts of do
facto officers, however illegal the mode of their appointment.
It criticises the language of, some cases that the officer must
act under color of authority conferred by a ,person having
power, orprblafaceu power, to appoint or elect in the particular case; and it thus defines an officer de facto :

OCTOBER TER9, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

"An officer de facto is one whose acts, though not those of
a lawful, officer, the law, upon principles of policy and justice,
'will hold valid, so far as they involve the interests of the publie and third persons, where the duties of the office are exercised:
"First. Withoht a known a'ppointment or election, but under
such circumstances of reputation-or acquiescence as were calcu.lted to inducp people, without inquiry, to submit to or invoke
his action, supposing him to' be the officer he assumed to be.
"Second. Under color of a known and valid appointment or
election, but 'here the officer had -failed to conform to some
precedent, requirement, or condition, as to take an oath, give a
boiid, or the like.
. "Third. Under color of a known election or appointment,
yoid because the officer was not eligible, or because there. was
a want of 'power in the electing or appointihg body, or by
reason of some defect or irregularity in its exercise, such ileligibilit], want of poiver, or defect being unknown to ihe
public.
"Fourth. Under color of an election or an appointment by or
pursuant to a public, unconstitltional law, before the same is
'adjudged to be such."
Of the great number of cases cited by the Chief Justice none
neoognizes such a thing as a defacto office, or speaks of a person as a defacto officer, except when he is the incumbent of a
de jure office. The fourth head refers not to the unconstitutionality of the act creating the office, but to the unconstitutionality of the act by which the officer is appointed to an office
legally existing. That such -was the meaning of the Chief JuStice is apparent from the cases cited by him in support of the
last position, to some of which reference will be made. One
of;them, Taylor v. Skrine, 3 Brevard, 516, arose in South Carolina in 1815. By an act of that State of 1799, the governor
was authorized'to appoint and commission some fit and proper
person to sit as judge in case any of the judges on the circuit
should happen to be sick, or become unable to hold the court
'in his circuit. A presiding judge of the court was thus appointed by the governor. Subsequently the act was declared to

NORTON v. SE[ELBV' COUNTY.

.44'

Opinion of the Court.

be unconstitutional, and the question arose whether, the acts of
the judge were necessarily void. It was held that he was a'
judge de facto and acting under color of legal authority, and'
that as such his acts were valid. Here the judge was-appointed
to fill an existing office, the duties of which the legal incumbent was temporarily incapable of discharging. Another case
is Cooke v. Haleey, in .16 Pet. 71. It there appeared that, by
the constitution of Mississippi, the judges and clerks of probate
were elected by the people. The legislature provided by latv
that, in case of the disability of the clerk, the court might .appoint one.' An elected clerk having left the State for an indefinite period, the judge appointed another to serve during
his'absence. The law authorizing the appointment.was declared unconstitutional, but the acts of the clerk were deemed
valid as those of an officer defa"to. Here the office was an, existing one created by law.
To Carleton v. The People, 10 Mich. 250, we have already
referred. By the constitution of Michigan the laws of the
legislature took effect ninety days after their passage., The,
legislature on the 4th of February passed an act creating a new
county, and authorized the election of county officers ,in April.
following. The officers were elected within the ninety days,
that is, before the act took effect, and they subsequently acted
as such officers. The validity of their acts was questioned on
the ground that there was at the time no law that authorized
the election, but the officers were existing by the constitution,
and as they subsequently entered upon the duties of th6se of.
fices, it was held that they were officers de facto.
In Clark v. Commonwealth, from the Supreme Court of*
Pennsylvania, 29 Penn. St. 129, the question related 6 nly to
the title of the officer. The constitution of that State provided for a division of the State into judicial districts, and for
the election of the presiding judge of the county court for each
district by the people thereof. The legislature passed a law
transferring a county from one judicial district to another during
the term for which the judge of the district had been elected, and
whilst presiding judge of the district to which the county was.
thus transferred he held court, at which a prisoner was con--

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
'Opinion of the Court.

victed of murder. It was contended that the act of the legislature was equivalent to an appointment of a judge for that
county, and, therefore, unconstitutional. The Supreme Court
held that, admitting the law to be unconstitutional, the judge
was an officer defacto, and that the prisoner could not be heard
to denyi . Here, also, the office was one created by law, and
the only question was as to the constitutionality of the law authorizing the judge to exercise it.
It ,is evident, from a consideration of these cases, that the
learned Chief Justice, in State v. Carroll,had reference, in his
.fourth subdivision, as we have said, to the unconstitutionality
of acts appointing the officer, and not of acts creating the
office. Other cases cited by counsel will show a similar view.
In Brown v. O'Connell, 36 Conn. 432, the constitution of
the State provided that the judges of the courts should be appointed by the general assembly. An act of the legislature
established a police court in the city of Hartford, and provided
,for the appointment of judges of the Court by the common
council. It was held that the judge could be appointed only
by the general assembly, and to that extent the act was unconatitutional. There was no question as to the validity of the
act, so far as it established a police court, and the appointee
of the common council was held to be a judge defacto.
The case of Blackburn v. The tate, 3 Head, 690, only
goes to show that the illegality of an appointment to a judicial
office does not affect the validity of the acts of the judge. The
constitution of Tennessee requires a judge to be thirty years
of age. A judge under that age having been appointed, it was
held that he could be removed by a proper proceeding, but
until that was done his acts were binding.
In Fowler v. Beebe, 9 Mass. 231, the legislature passed an
act erecting the county of Hampden, and provided that the
law should take effect from the 1st of August next ensuing.
Before that date the governor, with the advice aid consent
of the then council, commissioned a person as sheriff of the
county. There was no such office at the time his commission
was issued, but when the law went into effect he acted under
his commission. It was only the case of a premature appoint-

NORTON v. SHELBY COtNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

ment; and it was held that he was an officer do facto, and that
the legality of his commission could not be collaterally ques-

tioned.
None of the cases cited militates against the doctrine that,
for the existence of a defacto officer, there must be an office de
jure, although there may be loose expressions in some of the
opinions, not called for by the facts, seemingly against this
view. Where no office legally exists, the pretended officer is
merely a usurper, to whose acts no validity can be attached;
and such, in our judgment, was the position of the commissioners of Shelby County who undertook to act as the county
court, which could be constitutionally held only by justices of
the peace. Their right to discharge the dutics of justices of
the peace was never recognized by the justices, but from the
outset-was resisted by legal proceedings, which terminated in
an adjudication that they were usurpers, clothed with no authority or official function.
It remains to consider whether the action of the commissioners in subscribing for stock of the :Mississippi River Railroad
Company and issuing the bonds, of which those in suit are a
part, being originally invalid, was afterwards, ratified by the.
county. The County Court, consisting of the justices of the
peace, elected in their respective districts, alone had power-to
make a subscription and issue bonds. The sixth section of the
act of February 25, 1867, to which the bonds on theit face refer, provides: "That the County Court of iny county through
which the line of the Mississippi River Ra ]road is proposed to
run, a majority of the justices in commission at tle t.ime con-,
curring, may make a corporate, or doutity subscriptofi to. the
capital stock of said railroad company, of an amount not exceeding, two-thirds the estimated cost of grading the road-bed
throdgh the county and preliaring the same for the iron rails;
the said cost to be -verified by the sworn statement of the president or chief engineer of said company. And after such subscription shall have been entered upon the books of the railroad
company, either by the chairman of the county court, or by
any other member of the court appointed therefor,- the court
shall proceed, without further reference or delay, to levy an
VO.. cxvm-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

assessment on all the taxable property within the county sufcient to pay said subscription; and the same shall be payable
in three equal annual instalments, commencing with the fiscal
year in which said subscription shall be made. And it shall be
lawful for county courts making subscriptions as herein provided, to issue short bonds to the railroad company, in anticipation of the collection of the annual levies, if thereby construction of the work may be facilitated. Statuteg of 1866-1867,
ch. 48, § 6, p. 131.
On the 5th of the following November the legislature passed
an act declaring: "That the subscription authorized in said
sixth section to be made to the capital stock of- the Mississippi
River Railroad Company, by the counties along the line of said
railroad, may be made at any monthly term of the county courts
-of said counties, or at any special term of said courts: _Provied, that a majority of all the justices in commission in the
-counties respectively shall be present when any such subscription is made; and jyovided farther, that a majority of those
present shall concur therein." Private Acts, 1867-1868, ch. 6,
§ 1,page 5.
Neither of these acts, as counsel observe, recognizes or in any
way. refers to the, county commissioners, though the last act
was passed eight months after the act creating the board of
- commissioners for Shelby County. Both provide that the subscription may be made by the county court, but upon the condition that a majority of all the justices in commission shall
be present and a majority of those present shall concur therein.
The county court met on the 15th of November, 1869, for
the first time after the passage of the act of March 9, 1867, and
assumed its legitimate functions as the governing agency of the
county. On the 11th of April, 1870, it again met and established the rate of taxation for the Mississippi River Railroad
bonds at twenty cents on each one hundred dollars' worth of
taxable property. At its meeting on the 16th of that month
it ordered that the tax for those bonds should be ten cents on
each one hundred dollars' worth of property. At the meeting
on the 11th there were twenty two justices of the peace present,
of whom eighteen voted for the tax levy, and on the 16th only

NORTON v. SHELBY COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

'twelve justices were present. There were in the county at that
time forty five justices in commission. There were no other
meetings of the county court until after Mlay 5, 1870, on which
day the new constitution of Tennessee went into effect, which
declares that, "The credit of no county, city, or town shall be
given or loaned to or in aid of any person, company, association or corporation, except upon an election to be first held by
the qualified voters of such county, city, or town, and the assent of three-fourths of the votes cast at said election. Nor
shall any county, city, or town become a stockholder with
others in any company, association or corporation, except upon
a like election and the assent of a like majority."
By this provision of the constitution the county court, as thus
seen, was shorn of any power to order a subscription to stock
of any railroad company without the previous assent of threefourths of the voters of the county cast at an election held by
its qualified voters, and, of course, it could not afterwards, without such assent, give validity to a subscription previously made
by the commissioners. It could not ratify the acts of an unauthorized body. To ratify is to give validity to the act of another, and implies that the person or body ratifying has at the
time power to do the act ratified. As we said in .arsh v.
Fultrn County, 10 Wall. 676, 684, where it was contended, as
in this case, that certain bonds of that county, issued without
authority, were ratified by various acts of itq supervisors: "A
ratification is, in its effect upon the act of an agent, equivalent
to the possession by him of a previous authority. It operates
upon the act ratified in the same manner as though the authority of the agent to do the act existed originally. It follows
that a ratification can only be made when the party ratifying
possesses the power to perform the act ratified. The supervisors possessed no authority to make the subscription or issue
the bonds in the first instance without the previous sanction of
the qualified voters of the county. The supervisors in that particular were the mere agents 'of the county. They could not,
therefore, ratify a subscription without a vote of the county,
because they could not make a subscription in the first instance
without such authorization. It would be absurd to say that

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

they could without such vote, by sinple expressions of approval,
or in some other indirect way, give validity to acts, when
they were directly in terms prohibited by statute from doing
those acts until after such vote was had. That would be equivalent to saying that an agent, not having. the power to do a particular act for his principal, could give validity to such act by
its indirect recognition." 10 Wall. 676, 684. See also County
of Davies v.- Dickinson, 117 U. S. 657; Mc'racken v. City of
Sam _'i'anCi8o, 16 Cal. 591, 623.
No election was held by the voters of Shelby County with
reference to the subscription for stock of the Mississippi River
Railroad Company after the new constitution went into effect.
No subsequent proceedings, resolutions, or ,expressions of approval of the county court with reference to the subscription
made by the county commissioners, or to the bonds issued by
them, could supersede the necessity of such an election. Without this sanction the county court could, in no nianner, ratify
the unauthorized act, nor could it accomplish that result by
acts. whieh would estop it from asserting that no such election
was had. The requirement of the law could not, in this indirect way, be evaded.
The case of A ipinwall v. Commieioneav of .Davi8Counly,
22 How. 364, is directly in point on this subject. There the
charter of the Ohio and Mississippi Railroad Company, created
by the legislature of Indiana in 1848, as amended in 1849,
authorized the commissioners of a county, through which the
Toad passed, to subscribe for stock and issue bonds, providea a
majority of the qualified voters of the county voted on the
first of March, 1849, that this should be dcne. The eleition
.vas held on that day, aid a majority of the voters voted that
a subscription should be made. In September,- 1852, the
board of commissioners, pursuant to' the acts and election,
subscribed for 600 shares of the stock of the railroad company,
amounting to $30,000, and in payment of it issued thirty bonds
of $1000 each, signed and sealed by the president of the board
and attested by the auditor of the county and delivered the
same to the company. These bonds drew. interest at the rate
of six per cent. per annum, for which coupons were attached.

NORTON v. SHELBY COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiffs became the holders of sixty of these coupons, and
upon them the suit was brought against the commissioners of
the county. After the subscription was voted, but before it was
made or the bonds issued, the new constitution of Indiana went
into effect, which contained the following provision: "No
county shall subscribe for stock in any incorporated company
unless the same be paid for at the time of such subscription, nor
shall any county loan its credit to any incorporated company,
nor borrow money for the purpose of taking stock in any such
company." Art. 10, section 6. This provision was set up
against the validity of the bonds and coupons; and the question
arose whether, under the charter of the company and its amendment,the right to the county subscription became so vested in
the company as to exclude the operation of the new constitution. The court held that the provisions of the charter
authorizing the commissioners to subscribe conferred a power
upon a public corporation, which could be modified, changed,
enlarged., or restrained by the legislature; that by votihg for
the subscription no contract was created which prevented the
application of the new constitution; that the mere vote to subscribe did not of itself form a contract with the company
within the protection of the Federal Constitution; that until
the subscription was actually made n6 contract was executed;
and that the bonds, being issued in violation of the new constitution of the State, were void. That constitution withdrew
from the county commissioners all authority to make a subscription for the stock of an incorporated company, except in
the manner and under the circumstances prescribed by that
instrument, even though a vote for such subscription had been
previously had, and a majority of the voters had voted for it.
The doctrine of this case was reaffirmed in Wad&worth v.
SUJVervisors, 102 U. S. 534.
It follows that no ratification of the subscription to the
Mississippi River Railroad Company, or of the bonds issued
for its payment, could be made by the county court subsequently to the new constitution of Tennessee, without the previous assent of three-fourths of the voters of the county, which
has never been given.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

The question recurs whether any ratification can be inferred
from the action of the County Court on the 11th and 16th of
April, 1870, which was had before that Constitution took
effect. At the meeting of the court on those days a rate of
tax was established to be levied for the payment of the bonds,
but it appears from its records that on both days less than a
majority of the justices of the county were present; and the
County Court under those circumstances could not even directly
have authorized the subscription. The levy of a tax for the
payment of the bonds, when a less number of justices were
present than would have been necessary to order a subscription, could not operate as a ratification of a void subscription.
It is unnecessary to pursue this subject further. We are
satisfied that none of the positions taken by the plaintiff can
be sustained. The original invalidity of the acts -of the commissioners has never been subsequently' cured. It may be, as
alleged, that the stock of the railroad company, for which
they subscribed, is still held by the county. If so, the county
may, by proper proceedings, be required to surrender it to the
company, or to pay its value; for, independently of all restrictions upon municipal corporations, there is a rule of justice
that must control them as it controls individuals. If they obiain the property of others without right, they must return it
to the true owners, or pay for its value. But questions of that
nature do not arise in this case. Here it is simply a question
as to the validity of the bonds in suit, and as -that cannot be
sustained, the judgment belo* must be
_Affl'ed.

