WABASH, &c., RAILWAY CO. v. ILLINOIS.

557

Syllabus.

to mislead the jury, by obliging them to ascertain the average
injury to the plaintiff's capacity by the year, whether the
extent of that injury would be constant or varying; and by
giving them. to understand that the tables were not merely
competent evidence of the average duration of human life, and
of the present value of life annuities, but furnished absolute
rules which the law required them to apply in estimating the
probable duration of the plaintiff's life, and the extent of the
injury which he had suffered. For this reason fte
Judgment is revemsed, and the case remanded to the Circuit
Court, with direction to set aside the verdict and to order
a new trial.

WABASH, ST. LOUIS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY v. ILLINOIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME cOURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.

Argued April 14, 15, 1886.-Decided October 25, 1886.
A statute of Illinois enacts that, if anyrailroad company shall, within that State,
charge or receive for transporting passengers or freight of the same class, the
same or a greater sum for any distance than it does for a longer distance,
it shall be liable to a penalty for unjust discrimination. The defendant in
this case made such discrimination in regard to goods transported over the
same road or roads, from Peoria. in Illinois, and from Gilman, in Illinois, to
New York; charging more for the same class of goods carried from Gilinan
than from Peoria, the former being eighty-six miles nearer to New York
than the latter, this difference being in the length of the line within the
State of Illinois. .ield:
(1.) This court follows the Supreme Court of Illinois in holding that the
statute of Illinois must be construed to include a transportation of goods
under one contract and by one voyage from the interior of the State of
Illinois to New York.
(2.) This court holds further that such a transportation is "commerce
among the States," even as to that part of the voyage which lies within
the State of Illinois, while it is not denied that there may be a transportation of goods which is begun and ended within its limits, and disconnected with any carriage outside of the State, which is not commerce
among the States.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Citations for Plaintiff in Error.
(3.) The latter is subject to regulation by the State, and the statute of Illinois is valid as applied to it. But the former is national in its character, and its regulation is confided to Congress exclusively, by that clause
of the Constitution which empowers it to regulate commerce among the
States.
(4-) The cases of 3Thnn v. Ilinois, 94 U. S. 113; Chicago,Burlington &
Quincy Railroad Co. v. Iowa, 94 U. S. 155 ; and Peik v. Ghicago &
N'orthwestern Railway, 94 U. S. 164, examined in regard to this question; and held, in view of other cases decided near the same time, not
to establish a contrary doctrine.
(5.) Notwithstanding what is there said, this court holds now, and has
never consciously held otherwise, that a statute of a State, intended to
regulate or to tax or to impose any other restriction upon the transmission of persons or property or telegraphic messages from one State to
another, is not within that class of legislation which the States may
enact in the absence of legislation by Congress; and that such statutes
are void even as to that part of such transmission which may be within
the State.
(6.) It follows- that the statute of Illinois, as construed by the Supreme
Courtof the State, and as applied to the transaction under consideration, is forbidden- by the -Constitution of the -United Slates, and the
judgment of that court is reversed.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.Mr. IT S. Greene, for plaintiff in error, cited Tie ]ariel
Ball, 10 Wall. 557; Railroad Co. v. Husen, 95 U.. S. 465, 470 ;
Hall v. .De Cutir, 95 U. S. 485 ; Cooley v. Board of lWardeais
of the Port of PYiladel2pia, 12. How. 299; Leinmon v.
People, 20 N. Y. 562; lieense Cases, 5 How. 504; Thames
Bank v. Zovell, 18 Conn. 500; Passenger Cases, 7 How. 283;
State F7reight Case, 15 Wall. 232;

-Iendersonv.- .2e

York,

92 U. S. 259; Sherlock v. Alling, 93 U. S. 99 ; TFelton v. .3. hsourl, 91 U. S. 275; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; 17olmes
v. ennisonl 14 Pet 540; Brown. v. 1taryland, 12 Wheat.

419; ..Yew

Fork v. Afiln, 11 Pet. 119;

ilsown v. Black-

bird Creek Xlarsh Co., 2 Pet. 245; Gilman v. Philadelphia,

3 Wall. 713. State Tax on Railway Gross Receipts, 15 Wall.
284; Xobile County v. Kimball,. 102 U. S. 690 ; TFebber v. T7r-

ginia, 103 U. S. 344 ; Peik v. Oleicago &.Iorthwestern Railway,
94 U. S. 164; Chicago,Burlington & Quincy 'Railroadv. Iowa,
94 U. S. 155; Railroad Comm.issiormers v. Y-azoo & .AEissis-

WABASH, &c., RAILWAY CO. v. ILLINOIS.

559

Citations for Defendant in Error.

&ippi Valley Railroad, 21 Am. & Eng. Railroad Cas. 6; Ch/icago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad v. Parks, 18 Ill. 460;
Ex parte .Koelder, 21 Am. & Eng. Railroad Cas. 58; Gloucester Ferry 0t. v. Pennsylvania,114 U. S. 196; Carton v. illi,nob.Central Railroad, 59 Iowa, 148; H7ardy v. Atchison,
Topeka & Sanlaj Railroad, 18 Am. & Eng. Railroad Cas.
432; .faeiser v. Illinois Central Railroad, 5 McCrary, 496;
S.C., 16 Am. & Eng'. Railroad Cas. 40; .Jllinois Central Railroad v. Stone. 18 Am. & Eng. Railroad Cas. 416; Louis-ille
d' Nashville Railroad v. Railroad Commissioners, 16 Am.-&
Eng. Railroad Cas. 1.
.1>. George H7unt, Attorney-General of Illinois, for defendant in error, cited 31-essenger v. Penn. Railroad Co., 36 N.
J. Law, 407; XefDufee v. Railroad Co., 52 N. H. 430;
,Sandford v. Railroad Co., 24 Penn. St. 378; ffew Jersey
Steam-Aravgation Co. v. 3erchants' Bank, 6 How. 344; Shelden v. Bobinson, 7 N. H. 157 Gray v. Jackson, 51 N. H. 9;
Blollister
v. .3owlen, 19 Wend. 234; Bennett v. Dutton, 10
N. H. 481; -Yew England Express Co. v. Lfaine Central Railroad, 57 Maine, 188; .!unn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113; Pickford v. GrandJunction Railway, 10 M. & W. 399; Parker v.
Great Western Railway, 11 C. B. 545; Cramonwealth v.
Duane, 98 Mass. 1; State v. Perry, 5 Jones' Law, (N. C.)
252; State v. .2Wxon, 5 Jones' Law, (N. 0.) 257; .Mfurray v.
H7oboken La2,d & briprovement Co., 18 How. 272; -irkman v.
Shawcrass, 6 T. R. 14; Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213,
259 ; ebber v. rirginia,103 U. S.344; State Tax on Railway
Gross Receipts, 15 Wall. 284; Passenger Cases, 7 How. 283;
Gibbon. v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1 ; Slaughter-H-ouse Cases, 16 Wall.
36; Pa;lroadCo. v. flusen, 95 U. S.465; The James Gray v.
The John .Fiaser, 21 How. 184; Packet Co. v. St. Louis,
100 U. S. 423; Tieksburg v. Tobin, 100 U. S. 430; Packet
e,. v. .Keokuk, 95 U. S. 80; Cooley v. Philadelphia, 12
How. 299; 1-nman Steamship Co. v. Tinker, 94 U. S. 238;
Transportation C. v. Parkersburg,107 U. S.691; Railroad
Co. v. Fuller, 17 Wall. 560; Iillson v. Blaekbird .Jfarsh Co., 2
Pet. 245 ; Gilman v. Philadelphia,3 Wall. 713; Pennsylvania

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.
v. T5,eling & Belmont Bridge 'Co., 18 :ow. 421; Housto v.
-2oore,5 Wheat. 1; Sturgess v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. 122;
License Cases, 5 How. 504; GloucesterFerry Co. v. Pennsylvania,
114 U. S. 196; Pei v. CMicago & Northwesterm Railway, 94
U. S. 164; Chicago, Burlivgton,& Quincy Railroadv. Iowa,
94 U. S. 155; Illinoisv. Wabash, St. Louis & PacjJLc Railway, 104 Ill. 476; Stone v. Yazoo & .Xississippi "ValleyRailroad, 62 Mississippi, 607; Hardy v. Atchison, ToVeka &
Santa, F Railroad,18 Am. & Eng. Railroad Cas. 432; Stone
v. Illinois Central Railroad, 18 Am. & Eng. Railroad Cas.
416 ; _New York v. .Miln,11 Pet. 102 ; State v. Railroad Co., 24
West Vir. 783 ; Telegraph Co. v. Texas, 105 'U. S. 460.
Xr. I. C. Goudy, for plaintiff in error, cited the following
authorities not cited on Mr. Greene's brief: .Munn v. Illinois,
94 U. S. 113; Pensacola Telegraph Co. v. Western, Union Telegraph Co., 96 U. S. 1; Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622;
Walling v. Atichigan, 116 U. S. 446; -New Orleans Gas Co. v.
Louisiana Light Co., 115 U. S. 650; Piccard v. Pullman
Southern Car Co., 117 U. S. 34; Railroad Co. v. Fuller, 17
Wall. 560.

MIR. JusT CE MiLLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Illinois. It
was argued here at the last term of this court.
The case was tried in the court of original jurisdiction on an
agreed statement of facts. This agreement is short, and is here
inserted in full:
"Fo1F the purposes of the trial of said cause, and to save the
making of proof therein, it is hereby agreed on the part of the
defendant that the allegations in the first count of the declaration are true, except that part of said count which avers that
the saie proportionate discrimination was made in the transportation of said property-oil-cake and corn-in the State of
Illinois that was made between Peoria and the city of New
York and Gilman and New York city, which averment is not
admitted, because defendant claims that it is an inference from
the fact that the rates charged in each case of said transporta.

WABASH, &c., RAILWAY CO. v. ILLINOIS.

561

Opinion of the Court.

tion of oil-cake and corn were through rates, but it is admitted
that said averment is a proper one."
The first count in the declaration, which is referred to in this
memorandum of agreement, charged that the Wabash, St.
Louis and Pacific Railway Company had, in violation of a
statute of the State of Illinois, been guilty of an unjust discrimination in its rates or charges of toll and compensation for
the transportation of freight. The specific allegation is that
the railroad company charged Elder & -McKinney, for transporting twenty six thousand pounds of goods and chattels from
Peoria, in the State of Illinois, to New York city, the sum of
thirty nine dollars, being at the rate of fifteen centi per. hundred pounds for said car-load; and that on the same day they
agreed to carry and transport for Isaac Bailey and F. 0. Swan.
nell another car-load of goods and chattels from Gilman, in the
State of Illinois, to said city of New York, for which they
charged the sum of sixty five dollars, being at the rate of
twenty five cents per hundred pounds. And it is alleged that
the car-load transported for Elder & McKinney was carried
eighty six miles farther in the State of Illinois than tne other
car-load of the same weight. This freight being of the same
class in both instances, and carried over the same road, except
as to the difference in the distance, it is obvious that a discrimination against Bailey & Swannell was made in the charges
against them as compared with those against Elder & MeKinney; and this is true whether we regard the charge for the
whole distance from the terminal points in Illinois to New
York .city or the proportionate charge for the haul within the
State of Illinois.
The language of the statute which is supposed to be violated
by this transaction is to be found in Ch. 114 Rev. Stat. Illinois, ยง 126. It is there enacted that if any railroad corporation shall charge, collect, or receive for the transportation of
any passenger or freight of any description upon its railroad,
for any distance within the State, the same or a greater
amount of toll or compensation than is at the same time
charged, collected, or received for the transportation in the
same direction of any passenger or like quantity of freight of
VOL. CXVM-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.,

the same class over a greater distance of the same road, all
such discriminating rates, charges, collections, or receipts,
whether made directly or by means of rebate, drawback, or
other shift or evasion, shall be deemed and taken against any
such railroad corporation as prin faoie evidence of unjust
discrimination prohibited by the provisions of this act. The
statute further provides a penalty of not over $5000 for that
offence, and also that the party aggrieved shall have a right to
recover three times the amount*of damages sustained, with
costs and attorneys' fees.
To this declaration the railroad company demurred. The
demurrer was sustained by the lower court in Illinois; and
judgment rendered for the defendant. This, however, was
reversed by the Supreme Court of that State, and on the case
being remanded the demurrer was overruled, and the defendant pleaded, among other things, that the rates of toll charged
in the declaration were charged and collected for services rendered ufider an agreement and undertaking to transport freight
from Gilman, in the State of Illinois, to New York city, in
the State of New York, and that in such undertaking and
agreement the portion of the services rendered or to be
rendered within the State of Illinois was not apportioned
separate from such entire service; that the action is founded
solely upon the supposed authority of an Act of the Legislature
of the State of Illinois, approved April 7, 1871; and that said
act does not control or affect or relate to undertakings to
trainsport freight from the State. of Illinois to the State of
New York, which falls within the operation and is wholly
controlled by the terms of the third clause of Section 8 of
Article I. of the Cohstitution of the United States, which the
defendant -sets up and relies upon as a complete defence and
-protection in said action. This question of whether the statute
of Illinois, as applied to the case in hand, is in violation of the
Constitution of the United States, as set forth in the plea, was
also raised on the trial by a request of the defendant, the rail-road company, that the court should hold certain propositions
of law on the same subject, which propositions are as follows:
"The court holds as law, that as the tolls or rates of com-

WABASH, &c.,

,AILWAY CO. v. ILLINOIS.

563'

Opinion of the Court.

pensation charged and collected by the defendant, in the
instance in question, were for transportation service rendered
in transporting freight from a point in the State of Illinois to
a point in the State of New York, under an entire contract or
undertaking to transport such freight the whole distance between such points; that the Act of the General Assembly of
the State of flli-nois, approved May 2d, 1873, entitled ' An Act
to prevent extortion and unjust discrimination in the rates
charged for the transportation of passengers and freight on
railroads in this State, and to punish the same, and prescribe
a mode of procedure and rules of evidence in relation thereto,
and to repeal an act entitled "An Act to prevent unjust discrimination and extortion in the rates to be charged by the
different railroads in the State for the transportation of freight
on said roads," approved April 7, 1871,' does not apply to or
control such tolls and charges, nor can the defendant be'held
liable in this action for the penalties prescribed by said act.
"The court further holds as law, that said act in relation
to extortion and unjust discrimination cannot apply to transportation service rendered partly without the State, and consisting of the transportation of freight from within the State
of Illinois to the State of New .York,.and that said act canno
operate beyond the limits of the State of Illinois.
"The court further holds as matter of law, that the transportation in question falls within the proper description of
'commerce among the States,' and as such can only be regulated by the Congress of the United States under the termis of
the third clause of Section eight of Article one of the Constitution of the United States."
All of these propositions were denied by the court, and
judgment rendered against'the defendant, which judgment
was affirmed by the Supreme Court on appeal.
The matter thus presented, as to the controlling influence of
the Constiution of the United States over this legislation of
the State of Illinois, raises the question which confers jurisdiction on this court. Although the precise point presented by
this case may not have been heretofore decided by this court,
the general subject of the power of the State legislatures to

O CTOBER TERM, 1886.

Opinion of the Court.

regulate taxes, fares, and tolls for passengers and transportation
of freight over railroads within their limits has been very much
-considered recently : Slate -Freight Tax Case, 15 Wall. 232;
3f unn v. Illinois,9411. S. 113; Ckicago, Burlington & Quincy
Railroad,v. Iowa, 94 U. S. 155 ; Peik v. _.Aorthwestern Railway, 94 U. S. 164; Stone v. Farmers' Loan and Trust Co., 116
U. S. 307 ; Gloucester-FerryCo. v. Pennsylvania,114 U. S. 196,
204; P~ckard v. Pullman Southern Car Co., 117 US. 34:and the question how far such regulations, made by the States
and under State authority, are valid or void, as they may
affect the transportation of goods through more than one
State, in one voyage, is not entirely new here. The Supreme
Court of Illinois, in the case now before us, conceding that
each of these contracts was in itself a unit, and that the pay
received by the Illinois Railroad Company was the compensation for the entire transportation from the point of departure in the State of Illinois to the city of New York, holds, that
-while the statute of Illinois is inoperative upon that part of
the contract which has reference to the transportation outside
of the State, it is binding and effectual as to so much of the
transportation as was within the limits of the State of Illinois,
The People v. The Wabash, St. Louis & Paific Railway,
104 Ill. 476; and, undertaking for itself to apportion the rates
charged over the whole route, decides that the contract and
the receipt of the money for so much of it as was performed
within the State of Illinois.violate the statute of the State on
that subject.
If the Illinois statute could be construed to apply exclusively
to contracts for a carriage which begins and ends within the
State, disconnected from a continuous transportation through
or into other States, there does not seem to be any difficulty
in bolding it to be valid. For instance, a contract might be
made to carry goods for a certain price from Cairo to Chicago,
or from Chicago to Alton. The charges for these might be
within the competency of the Illinois Legislature to regulate.
The reason for this is that both the charge and the actual
transportation in such cases are exclusively confined to the
limits of the territory of the State, and is not commerce

WABASH, &c., RAIMWAY CO. v. ILLINOIS.

565

Opinion of the Court.

among the States, or interstate commerce, but is exclusively
commerce within the State. So far, therefore, as this class of
transportation, as an element of commerce, is affected by the
statute under consideration, it is not subject to the constitutional provision concerning commerce among the States. It
has often been held in this court, and there can be no doubt
about it, that there is a commerce wholly within the State
which is not subject to the constitutional provision, and the
distinction between commerce among the States and the
other class of commerce between the citizens of-a single'State,
and conducted within its limits exclusively, is one which has
been fully recognized in this court, although it may not be
always easy, where the lines of these classes approach each
other, to distinguish between the one and the other. The
Dianiel Ball, 10 Wall. 557; Hlall v. Die Cuir, 95 U. S. 485;
Tdegraph Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460.
It might admit of question whether the statute of Illinois,
now under consideration, was designed by its framers to affect
any other class of transportation than that which begins and
ends within the limits of the State. The Supreme Court of
Illinois having in this case given an interpretation which
makes it apply to what we understand to be commerce among
the States, although the contract was made within the State
of Illinois, and a part of its performance was within the same
State, we are bound, in this court; to accept that construction.
It becomes, therefore, necessary to inquire whether the charge
exacted from the shippers in this case was a charge for interstate transportation, or was susceptible of a division which
would allow so much of it to attach to commerce strictly
within the State, and so much more to commerce in other
States. The transportation, which is the subject-matter of the
contract, being the point on which the decision of the case
must rest, was it a transportation limited to the State of Illinois, or was it a transportation covering all the lines between
Gilman in the one case and Peoria in the other in the State
of Illinois, and the city of New York in the State of New
York ?
The Supreme Court of Illinois does not place its judgment

OCTOBER XERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.
in the present case on the ground that the transportation and
the charge are exclusively State commerce, but, conceding
that it may be a case of commerce among the States, or interstate commerce, which Congress would have the right to regulate if it had attempted to do so, argues that this statute of
Illinois belongs to that class of commercial regulations which
may be established by the laws of a State until. Congress shall
have exercised its power on that subject; and to this proposition a large part of the argument of the Attorney-General of
the State before us is devoted, although he earnestly insists
that the statute of Illinois which is the foundation of this action is not a regulation of commerce within the meaning of
the Constitution of the United States. In support of its view
of the subject the Supreme Court of Illinois cites the cases of
.unn v. Illinois, chieago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad v.
Iown, and Peiki v. Vo'thwestetn Railway, above referred to.
It cannot be denied that the general language of the court in
these cases, upon the power of Congress to regulate commerce,
may be susceptible of the meaning which the Illinois court
places upon it.
In .-3unn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113, 135, the language of this
court upon that subject is as follows:
"We come now to consider the effect upon this statute of
the power of Congress to regulate commerce. It was very
properly said, in the case of the State Tax on, Railway Gross
Receipts, 15 Wall. 293, that 'it is not everything that affects
commerce that amounts to a regulation of it, within the meaning of the Constitution.' The warehouses of these plaintiffs in
error are situated and their business carried on exclusively
within the limits of the State of Illinois. They are used as
instruments by those engaged in State as well as those engaged in interstate commerce, but they are no more necessarily a part of commerce itself than the dray or the cart by
which, but for them, grain would be transferred from one railroad station to another. Incidentally they may become connected with interstate commerce, but not necessarily so. Their
regulation is a thing of domestic concern, and certainly, until
Congress acts in reference to their interstate relations, the

WABASH, &c., RAILWAY CO. v. ILLINOIS.

567

Opinion of the Court.

State may exercise all the powers of gqvernment over them,
even though in so doing it may indirectly operate upon commerce outside its immediate jurisdiction. We do not say that
a case may not arise in which it will be found that a State,
under the form of regulating its own affairs, has encroached
upon the exclusive domain of Congress in respect to interstate
commerce, but we do say that, upon the facts as they are represented to us in this record, that has not been done."
In the case of Tlw Clticago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad
v. Iowa, 94 U. S. 155, 163, which directly related to railrbad
transportation, the language is as follows:
"The objection, that the statute complained of is void, because it amounts to a regulation of commerce among the
States, has been sufficiently considered in the case of .funz
v. Illi wo'. This road, like the warehouse in that case, is situated within the limits of a single State. Its business is carried
on there, and its regulation is a matter of domestic concern.
It is employed in State as well as in interstate commerce, and,
until Congress acts, the State must be permitted to adopt such
rules and regulations as may be necessary for the piomotion
of the general welfare of the people within its own jurisdiction, even though in doing so those without may be indirectly
affected."
But the strongest language used by this court in these cases
is to be found in Peik v. Micago & Northwestern Railway,
94 U. S. 164, 177-8, as follows:
"As to the effect of the statute as a regulation of interstate
commerce. The law is confined to State commerce, or such
interstate commerce as directly affects the people of Wisconsin. Until Congress acts in reference to the relations of this
company to interstate commerce, it is certainly within the
power of Wisconsin to regulate its fares, etc., so far as they are
of domestic concern. With the people of Wisconsin this company has domestic relations. Incidentally, these may reach
beyond the State. But certainly, until Congress undertakes
to legislate for those who are without the State, Wisconsin
may provide for those within, even though it may indirectly
affect those without."

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

These extracts show that the question of the right of the
State to regulate the rates of fares and tolls on railroads, and
how far that right was affected by the commerce clause of the
Constitution of the United States, was presented to the court
in those cases. And it must be admitted that, in a general
way, the court treated the cases then before it as belonging to
that class of regulations of commerce which, like pilotage,
bridging navigable rivers, and many others, could be acted
upon by the States in the absence of any legislation by Congress on the same subject.
By the slightest attention to the matter it will be readily
seen that the circumstances under which a bridge may be authorized across a navigable stream within the limits of a State,
for the use of a public highway, and the local rules which
shall govern the conduct of the pilots of each of the varying harbors of the coasts of the United States, depend upon
principles far more limited in their application and importance
than those which should regulate the transportation of persons
and property across the half or the whole of the continent,
over the territories of half a dozen States, through which they
Are carried without change of car or breaking bulk.
Of the members of the court who concurred in those opini'ons, theIre being two dissentients, but three remain, and the
writer of this opinion is one of the three. He is prepared to
take his share of the responsibility for the language used in
those opinions, including the extracts above presented. He
does not fedl called upon to say whether those extracts justify
the decision of the Illinois court in the present case. It will be
seen, from the opinions themselves, and from the arguments of
counsel presented in the reports, that the question did not
receive any very elaborate consideration, either in the opinions
of the court or in the arguments of counsel. And the question
how far a charge made for a continuous transportation over
several States, which included a State whose laws were in
question, may be divided into separate charges for each State,
in enforcing the power of the State to regulate the fares of
its railroads, was evidently not fully considered. These three
cases, with others concerning the same subject, were argued at

WABASH, &c., RAILWAY CO. v. IILLINOIS.

569

Opinion of the Court.
the same time by able counsel, and in relation to the different
laws affecting the subject, of the States of Illinois, Iowa, Wisconsin, and Minnesota; the main question in all the cases being
the right of the State to establish any limitation upon the
power of the railroad companies'to fix the price at which they
would carry passengers and freight. It was strenuously denied,
and very confidently, by all the railroad companies, that any
legislative body whatever had a right to limit the tolls and
charges to be made by the carrying companies for transportation. And the great question to be decided, and which- was
decided, and which was argued in all those cases, was the right
of the State within which a railroad company did business to
regulate or limit the amount of any of these traffic charges.
The importance of that question overshadowed all others;
and the case of .i"unm v. llilnois was selected by the court as
the most appropriate one in which to give its opinion on that
subject, because that case presented the question of a private
citizen, or unincorporated partnership, engaged in the warehousing business in Chicago, free from any claim of right or
contract under an act of incorporation of any State whatever,
and free from the queotion of continuous transportation through
several States. And in that case the court was presented with
the question, which it decided, whether any one engaged in a
public business, in which all the public had a right to require
his service, could be regulated by acts of the legislature in the
exercise of this public function and public duty, so far as to
limit the amount of charges that should be made for such
services.
The railroad companies set up another defence, apart from
denying the general right of the legislature to regulate transportation charges, namely, that in their charters from the
States they each had a contract, express or implied, that they
might regulate and establish their own fares and rates of
transportation. These two queftions were of primary importance; and though it is true that, as incidental or auxiliary to
these, the question of the exclusive right of Congress to make
such regulations of charges as any legislative power had the
right to make, to the exclusion of the States, was presented, it

570

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Cour.

received but little attention at the hands of the court, and was
passed over with the remarks in the opinions of the court
which have been cited.
The case of the State Freight Tax, 15 Wall. 232, which was
decided only four years before these cases, held an act of the
Legislature of Pennsylvania void, as being in conflict with the
commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States,
which levied a tax upon all freight carried through the State
by any railroad company, or into it from any other State, or
out of it into any other State, and valid as to all freight the
carriage of which was begun and ended *within the limits of
the State, because the former was a regulation of interstate
commerce, and the latter was a commerce solely within the
State which it had a right to regulate. And the question now
under consideration, whether these statutes were of a class
which the legislatures of the States could enact in the absence
of any act of Congress on -the subject, was considered and
decided in the negative.
It is impossible to see any distinction in its effect upon commerce of either- class, between a statute which regulates the
charges for transportation, and a statute which levies a tax for
the benefit of the State upon the same transportation; and, in
fact, the judgment of the court in the State Freight Tax Case
rested upon the ground that the tax was always added to the
cost of transportation, and thus was a tax in effect upon the
privilege of carrying the goods through the State. It is also

-

very difficult to believe that the court consciously intended to
overrule the first of these cases without any reference to it in
the opinion.
At the very next term of the court after the delivery of
these opinions, the case of Hall v. De Cuir, 95 U. S. 485, was
decided, in which the same point was considered, in reference
to a statute of the State of Louisiana which attempted to regulate the carriage of passengers upon railroads, steamboats, and
other public conveyances, and which provided that no regulations of any companies engaged in that business should make
any discrimination on account of race or color. This statute
by its terms was limited to persons engaged in that class of

WABASH, &c., RAILWAY CO. v. ILLINOIS.

571

Opinion of the Court.

business within the State, as is the one now under consideration, and the case presented under the statute was that of
a person of color who took passage from New Orleans for
Hermitage, both places being within the limits of the State of
Louisiana, and was refused accommodations in the general
cabin on account of her coldr. In regard to this the court declared that, "for the purposes of this case, we must treat the
Act of Louisiana of February 23, 1869, as requiring those engaged in interstate commerce to give all persons travelling
in that State, upon the public conveyances employed in ,such
business, equal rights and privileges in all parts of the conveyance, without distinction or discrimination on account of race
or color. . . . We have nothing whatever to do with it as
a regulation of internal commerce, or as affecting anything
else than commerce among the States."
And, speaking in reference to the right of the States in certain classes of interstate commerce to pass laws regulating
them, the opinion says:
"The line which separates the powers of the States from
this exclusive power of Congress is not always distinctly
marked, and oftentimes it is not easy to determine on which
side a particular case belongs. Judges not unfrequently differ
in their reasons for a decision in which they concur. Under
such circumstances it would be a useless task to undertake to
fix an arbitrary rule by which the line must, in all cases, be
located. It is far better to leave a matter of such delicacy to
be settled in each case upon a view of the particular rights involved. But-we think it may safely be said that State legislation which seeks to impose a direct burden upon interstate
commerce, or to interfere directly with its freedom, does encroach upon the exclusive power of Congress. The statute
now under consideration, in our opinion, occupies that position.
It does not act upon the business through the local instruments.
to be employed after coming within the State, but directly
upon the business as it comes into the State from without, or
goes out from within. While it purports only to control the
carrier when engaged within the State, it must necessarily influence his conduct to some extent in the management of his

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

business throughout his entire voyage. .
.
It was to meet
just such a case that the commercial clause in the Constitution
was adopted. The river Mississippi passes through or along
the borders of ten different States, and its tributaries reach
many more. The commerce upon these waters is immense,
and its regulation clearly a matter of national concern. If
each State was at liberty to regulate the conduct of carriers
while within its jurisdiction, the confusion likely to follow
could not but be productive of great inconvenience and unnecessary hardship. Each State could provide for its own
passengers and regulate the transportation of its own freight,
regardless of the interests of others. Nay, more, it could prescribe rules by which the carrier must be governed within the
State in respect to passengers and property brought from
*ithout. On one side of the river or its tributaries he might
be required to observe one set of rules, and on the other, another. Commerce cannot flourish in the midst of such embarrassments."
. The applicability of this language to the case now under consideration, of a continuous transportation of goods from New
York to Central Illinois, or from the latter to New York, is
obvious, and it is not easy to see how any distinction can
be made. Whatever may be the instrumentalities by which
this. transportation from the one point to the-other is effected,
it is but one voyage, as much so as that of the steamboat on the
Mississippi River. It is not the railroads themselves that are
regulated by this act of the Illinois Legislature so much as the
"eharge for transportation, and, in language just cited, if each
dne of the States through whose territories these goods are
transported can fx its own rules for prices, for modes of transit,
for times and modes of delivery, and all the other incidents of
transportation to which the word "regulation" can be applied,
it is readily seen that the embarrassments upon interstate transportation, as an element of interstate commerce, might be too
oppressive to be submitted to. "It was," in the language of the
court cited above, "to meet just such a case that the commerce
clause of the Constitution was adopted."
It cannot be too strongly insisted upon that the right of con-

WABASH, &c., RATLWAY CO. v. ILLINOIS.

573

Opinion of the Court.

tinuous transportation from one end of the country to the other
is essential in modern times to that freedom of commerce from
the restraints which the State might choose to impose upon it,
that the commerce clause was intended to secure. This clause,
giving to Congress the power to regulate commerce among the
States and with foreign nations, as this court has said before, was
among the most important of the subjects which prompted the
formation of the Constitution. Cook v. Pennsylvania,97 U. S.
566, 574; Brown v. Zaryland,12 Wheat. 419, 446. And it
would be a very feeble and almost useless provision, but poorly
adapted to secure the entire freedom of commerce among the
States which was deemed essential to a more perfect union by
the framers of the Constitution, if, at every stage of the transportation of goods and chattels through the country, the State
within whose limits a part of this transportation must be done
could impose regulations concerning the price, compensation,
or taxation, or any other restrictive regulation interfering with
and seriously embarrassing-this commerce.
The argument on this subject can never be better stated than
it is by Chief-Justice Mfarshall in Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat.
1, 195-6. He there demonstrates that commerce am.ong the
States, like commerce with foreign nations, is necessarily a commerce which crosses State lines, and extends into the States,
and the power of Congress to regulate it exists wherever that
commerce is found. Speaking of navigation as an element of
commerce, which it is, only, as a means of transportation, now
largely superseded by railroads, he says: "The power of Congress, then, comprehends navigation within the limits of every
State in the Union, so far as that navigation may be, in any
manner, connected with 'commerce with foreign nations,. or
among the several States, or with the Indian tribes.' It may,
of consequence, pass the jurisdictional line of New York and
act upon the very waters [the Hudson River] to which the prohibition now under consideration applies," p. 197. So the same
power may pass the line of the State of Illinois and act upon
its restriction upon the right of transportation extending over
several States, including that one.
In the case of Telegraph Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460, 465,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

the court held that "a telegraph company occupies the same
relation to commerce a$ & carrier of. messages that a iailroad
company does as a carrier of goods," and that "both companies
are instruments of commerce, and their business is commerce
itelf" And relying upon the case of Tie State .FreightTax,
15 Wall. 232, already referred to, the court said that a tax by
the State of Texas upon all messages carried within its borders
was forbiden by the commerce clause of the Constitution, as
being a tax upon commerce among the States; and observed
that "the tax is the same on every message sent, and because
it is sent, without regard to the distance carried or the price
charged. . . . Clearly, if a fixed tax for every two thousand pounds of freight carried is a tax on the freight, or for
every measured ton of a vessel a tax on tonnage, or for every
passenger carried a tax on the passenger, or for the sale of
goods a tax on the goods, this must be a tax on the messages.
As such, so far as it operates on private messages sent out of
the State; it is a regulation of foreign and interstate commerce
and beyond the power of the State. That is fully established
by the cases already cited."
In the case of Melton v. .f i&ouri, 91 U. S. 275, 280, it was
said: "It will not be denied that that portion of commerce
with foreign countries and between the States which consists
in the transportation and exchange of commodities is of national importance, and admits and requires uniformity of regulation. The very object of investing this power in the general
government was to insure this uniformity against discriminating State legislation."
And in County of .lobile v. Einball, 102 U. S. 691, 702, the
same idea is very clearly stated in the following language:
"Commerce with foreign countries and among the States,
strictly considered, consists in intercourse and traffic, including
in these terms navigation and the transportation and transit of
persons and property, as well as the purchase, sale, and exchange
of commodities. For the regulation of commerce as thus defined there can be only one system of rules, applicable alike to
the whole country; and the authority which can act for the
whole country can alone adopt such a system. Action upon

WABASH, &c., RAILWAY CO. v. ILLINOIS.

575

Opinion of the Court.

it by separate States is not, therefore, permissible. Language
affirming the exclusiveness of the grant of power over commerce
as thus defined may not be inaccurate, when it would be so if
applied to legislation upon subjects which are merely auxiliary
to commerce."
In the case of Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114
U. S. 196, 204, decided two years ago, the court declared without dissent that, "It needs no argument to show that the commerce with foreign nations and between the States, which consists in the transportation of persons and property between
them, is a subject of national character and requires uniformity of regulation," and still later, in the case of Pick'ard v.
Pullman Southern Car Co., 117 U. S. 34, the whole subject is
very fully re-examined ; and a tax of the State of Tennessee
upon sleeping-cars of that company, which were used in carrying passengers through the State, and into it and out of it, was
held void as a regulation of commerce among the States.
The case of Stone v. The Farmers' Loan and Trust Co., 116
U. S. 307, argued at the same term as the present, while it does
not decide the latter, evidently does not support the construction placed by the Supreme Court of Illinois upon the case of
.Mfunn v. Illinois,and the other cases on which the court relies.
We must, therefore, hold that it is not, and never has been,
the deliberate opinion of a majority of this court that a statute
of a State which attempts to regulate the fares and charges
by railroad companies within its limits, for a transportation
which constitutes a part of commerce among the States, is a
valid law.
Let us see precisely what is the degree of interference with
transportation of property or persons from one State to another
which this statute proposes. A citizen of New York has goods
which he desires to have trdnsported by the railroad companies from that city to the interior of the State of Illinois. A
continuous line of rail over which a car loaded with these
goods can be carried, and is carried habitually, connects the
place of shipment with the place of delivery. He undertakes
to make a contract with a person engaged in the carrying
business at the end of this route from whence the goods are to

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

start, and he is told by the carrier, "I am free to make a fair
and reasonable contract for this carriage to the line of the
State of Illinois, but when the car which carries these goods is
to cross the line of that State, pursuing at the same time this
continuous track, I am met by a law of Illinois which forbids
me to make a free' contract concerning this transportation
-within that State, and subjects me to certain rules by which I
am to be governed as to the charges which the same railroad
company in Illinois may make, or has made, with reference to
other persons and other places of delivery." So that while
that carrier might be willing to carry these goods from the
city of New York to the city of Peoria at the rate of fifteen
cents per hundred pounds, he is not permitted to do so because
the Illinois railroad company has already 6barged at the rate
of twenty five cents per hundred pounds for carriage to Gilman, in Illinois, which is eighty six miles shorter than the distance to Peoria.
So, also, in the present case, the owner of corn, the principal product of the country, desiring to transport it from Peoria, in Illinois, to New York, finds a railroad company willing
to do this at the rate of fifteen dents per hundred pounds for
a car-load, but is compelled to pay at the rate of twenty five
cents per hundred pounds, because the railroad company has
received from a person residing at Gilman twenty five cents
per hundred pounds for the transportation of a car-load of the
same class of freight over the same line of road from Gilman
to New York. This is the result of the statute of Illinois, in
its endeavor to prevent unjust discrimination, as construed by
the Supreme Court of that State. The effect of it is-, that
whatever- may be the rate of transportation per mile charged
by the railroad company from Gilman to Sheldon, a distance
of twenty three miles, in which the loading and the unloading
of the freight is the largest expense incurred by the railroad
dompany, the same rate per mile must be charged from Peoria
to the city of New York.
The obvious injustice of such a rule as this, which railroad
companies are by heavy penalties compelled to conform to, in
regard to commerc6 among the States, when applied to trans-

-WABASH, &c., RAILWAY CO. v. ILLINOIS.

57r

Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C.J., Bradley, Gray, JJ.

portation which includes Illinois ip a long line of carriage
through several States, shows the value of the constitutional
provision which confides the power of regulating interstate
commerce to the Congress of the United States, whose enlarged
view of the interests of all the States, and .of the railroads
concerned, better #lts it to establish just and equitable rules.
Of the justice or propriety of the principle which- lies at the
foundation of the Illinois statute it is not the province of this
court to speak. As resfricted to a~transportation which begins
.and ends within the limits of the State it may be very just and
equitable, and it certainly is the proyince of the State legislature to determine that question. But when it is attempted to
apply to transportation through an entire series of States a
principle of this kind, and each one of the States shall attempt
to establish its own rates of transportation, its own methods to
prevent discrimination in rates, or to permit it, the deleterious
influence upon the freedom of commerce among the States and
upon the transit of goods through those States cannot be overestimated. That this species of regulation is one which must
be, if established at all, of a general and national character,
and cannot be safely and wisely remitted to local rules and
local regulations, we think is clear from what has already been
said. And if it be a regulation of commerce, as we think we
have demonstrated it is, and as the Illinois court concedes it
to be, it must be of that national character, and the regulation
can only appropriately exist by general rules and principles,
which demand that it should be done by the Congress of the
United States under the commerce clause of the Constitution.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Illinois is therefore
teeei'sed, and t.e caseraemande(l to that courtforfurherproceedblgs in cmformity with tlds opinion.
MR. JUSTICE BRP nLY, with
JUsTICE and MR. JUSTICE GRiY,

whom concurred TH. CIEF
dissenting.

The Chief Justice, Mr. Justice Gra7, and myself dissent
from the opinion and judgment of the court in this case, and I
-am authorized to state the reasons upon which our dissent is
founded.
VOL. cxvmi-87

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Dissenting Opinion: Waite, O.J., Bradley, Gray, JJ.

The Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railway Company, an
Illinois corporation, plaintiff in error, was sued by the State of
Illinois to recover a penalty for the breach of its laws, passed
"to prevent extortion and unjust discrimination in the rates
charged for the transportation of passengers and freight on
railroads in the State." The law sued on was originally passed
in 1871, and revised in 1873, and the material portions of its
most important section are in the following words, to wit:
"If any such railroad corporation shall charge, collect, or
receive for the transportation of any passenger or freight of
any description, upon its railroad, for anyr distance, within this
State, the same or a greater amount of toll or compensation
than is at the same time charged, collected, or received for the
transportation, in the same direction, of any passenger or like
quantity of freight, of the same class, over a greater distance
of the same railroad;

.

.

.

or if it shall charge, collect, or

receive from any person or persons, for the use and transportation of any railroad car or cars upon its railroad, for any distance, the same or a greater amount of toll or compensation
than is at the same time charged, collected, or received from
any other person or persons, for the use and transportation of
any railroad car of the same class or number, for a like purpose, being transported in the same direction, over a greater
distance of the same railroad;

.

.

.

all such discriminating

rates, charges, collections, or receipts, whether made directly
or by means of rebate, drawback, or other shift or evasion,
shall be deemed and taken, against any such railroad corporation, as primat facie evidence of unjust discrimination, prohibited by the provisions of this act;
.Provided,
however, that nothing herein contained shall be so construed as
to prevent railroad corporations from issuing commutation, excursion, or thousand-mile tickets, as the same are now issued
by such corporations."
A penalty of not less than $1000 and not more than $5000
for the first offence is imposed for the violation.of the law;
and it was for this penalty that the company was sued in the
Ford County Circuit Court.
The declaration alleged, in substance, that the company

WABASH, &c., RAILWAY CO. v. ILLINOIS.

579

Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C.J., Bradley, Gray, JJ.

charged certain parties fifteen cents per hundred pounds for
carrying a load of freight from Peoria, in the State of Illinois,
to New York, one hundred and nine miles of the distance
being in Illinois, whilst at the same time it charged certain
other parties twenty five cents per hundred pounds for carrying a like load of the same class of freight from Gilman, also
in the State of Illinois, to New York, twenty three miles of
the distance being in Illinois, both places being on the line of
the road. This allegation was substantially admitted, and
judgment was finally rendered in favor of the State, and was
sustained by the Supreme Court of the State, to which the
present writ of error was directed.
The main point insisted on by the railway company in its
defence was, that the law on which the action was founded is
unconstitutional in its application to their case, as being a
regulation of interstate commerce. They also contended that
a gross charge from Peoria or Gilman to New York was no
evidence of any particular charge within the State of Iltinois.
The construction given to the law by the Supreme Court of
Illinois is to be received by us, on a writ of error brought for
the purpose of questioning its constitutionality. That construction is clearly exhibited in the following announcement of
the opinion of that court when the case was brought before it
a second time. The court says:
"We see no reason to depart from the conclusion reached in
this case when it was here before. See People v. IW., St. L.
&- P. Railway Co., 104 Ill. 476. But to avoid misapprehension, we deem it desirable to state explicitly that we disclaim
any idea that Illinois has authority to regulate commerce in
any other State: We understand and simply hold that, in the
absence of anything showing to the contrary, a single and entire contract to carry for a gross sum from Gilman, in this
State, to the city of New York, implies necessarily that that
sum is charged proportionately for the carriage on every part
of that distance; and that a single and entire contract to carry
for a gross sum from Peoria, in this State, to the city of New
York, implies the same thing; and that, therefore, when it is
shown that there is charged for carriage upon the same line

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C. J., Bradley, Gray, JJ.

less from Peoria to New York (the greater distance) than from
Gilmai to New York (the less distance), and nothing is shown
to the effect that such inequality in charge is all for carriage
entirely beyond the limits of this State, a prima facie case is
made out of unjust discrimination under our statute occurring
within this State. We hold that the excess in the charge for
the less distance presumably affects every part of th6 line of
carriage between Gilman and the State line proportionately
with the balance of the line. The judgment is affirmed."
Waba.9, St. Louis & Pacifc Railwag v. Illinois, 105 Ill.
236.
We have no doubt that this view of the presumed equal distribution of the charge to every part of the route is correct.
Jf ofie-tenth, or any other proportion, of the whole route of
transportation was in Illinois, the clear presumption is, if
nothing be shown to the contrary (as nothing was shown), that
the like proportion of the whole charge was made for the
transportation in that State.
The principal question in this case, therefore, is whether, in
the absence of congressional legislation, a State legislature has
the power to regulate the charges made by the railroads of the
State for transporting goods and passengers to and from places
within the State, when such goods or passengers are brought
from, or carried to, points without the State, and are, therefore,
in the course of transportation from another State, or to another
State. It is contended that as such transportation is commerce
between or among different States, the power does not exist.
The majority of the court so hold. We feel obliged to dissent
from that opinion. We think that the State does not lose its
power to regulate the charges of its own railroads in its own
territory, simply because the goods or persons transported have
been brought from or are destined to a point beyond the State
in another State.
The case before us is not embarrassed by any allegation of
a contract between the State and the company; it is a question
of the power to regulate, pure and simple. The State has
never contracted away or attempted to contract away this
power.

WABASH, &c., RAILWAY CO. v. ILLINOIS.

581

Disseuting Opinion: Waite, C.T., Bradley, Gray, JJ.

It is also unembarrassed by any Federal legislation on the
subject. No one disputes that Congress might, if it saw fit,
under its power to regulate commerce among the several
States, regulate the matter under consideration ; but it has not
done so. The question rests solely and entirely upon the
power of the State, when unrestrained by any contract, or by
any action of the legislative department of the United States.
Does it follow, then, that because Congress has the power to
regulate this matter (though it has not exercised that power),
therefore the State is divested of all power of regulation? That
is the question before us.
We had supposed that this question was concluded by the
previous decisions of this court: that all local arrangements and
regulations respecting highways, turnpikes, railroads, bridges,
canals, ferries, dams, and wharves, within the State, their construction and repair, and the charges to be made for their use,
though materially affecting commerce, both internal and external, and thereby incidentally operating to a certain extent
as regulations of interstate commerce, were within the power
and jurisdiction of the several States. That is still our opinion.
It is almost a work of supererogation to refer to the cases.
They are legion. A few only will be selected and referred
to.
The first great case on the subject was that of
'Fillson
v.
The Zlaclk,'bid Croe.k Co., 2 Pet. 245, 252, where the State of
Delaware had authorized a dam in a navigable tide-water creek
of that State, communicating with Delaware Bay; and Chief
Justice Marshall, delivering the unanimous opinion of the
court, said: "The value of the property on its banks must be
enhanced by excluding the water from the marsh, and the
health of the inhabitants probably improved. Measures calcuhated to produce these objects, provided they do not come into
collision with the powers of the general government, are undoubtedly within those which are reserved to the States. IBut
the measure authorized by this act stops a navigable creek, and
must be supposed to abridge the rights of those who have been
accustomed to use it. But this abridgment, unless it comes
in conflict with the Constitution or a law of the United States,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C.J., Bradley, Gray, JJ.

is an affair between the government of Delaware and its citizens, of which this court can take no cognizance. The counsel
for the plaintiff in error insist that it comes in conflict with
the power of the United States ' to regulate commerce with
foreign nations and among the several States." If Congress
had passed, any act which bore upon the case, any act in execution of the power to regulate commerce, the object of which
was to control State legislation over those small navigable
creeks into which the tide flows, and which abound throughout the lower country of the Middle and Southern States, we
should feel not much difficulty in saying that a .State law
coming in conflict with such act would be void. But Congress
has passed no such act. The repugnancy of the law of Delaware to the Constitution is placed entirely on its repugnancy
to the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations and
among the several States; a power which has not been so exercised as to affect the question. We do not think that the act
empowering the Blackbird Creek Marsh Company to place a
dam across the creek can, under all the circumstances of the
case, be considered as i'epugnant to the power to regulate commerce in its dormant state, or as being in conflict with any law
passed on the subject."
This case was, in all things, affirmed by"the later case of
Gilman v. Ph;ladelp)kha, 3 Wrall. "713. The Legislature of
Pennsylvania authorized the city of Philadelphia to erect a
permanent bridge across the Schuylkill River (a navigable
water), at the foot of Chestnut Street. It was sought to restrain the erection of this bridge on the same grounds which
had been urged in the Blackbird Creek case; but the Circuit
Court of the United States refused to interfere, and dismissed
a bill for an injunction. The decision was sustained by this
court, which held that it was for Congress to determine when its
full power to regulate commerce should be brought into activity, and as to the regulations and sanctions which should be
provided; and that, until the dormant power of the Constitution is awakened and made effective by appropriate legislation,
the reserved power of the States is plenary, and its exercise in
good faith cannot be made the subject of review by this court.

WABASH, &c., RAILWAY CO. v. ILLINOIS.

583

Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C.J., Bradley, Gray, JJ.

These principles are xeaffirmed in the still more recent case
of . sanaba Conmpany v. Chicago, 107 U. S. 678, 683. In that
case the authorities of Chicago, under the powers conferred
upon them by the Legislature of Illinois, regulated the times for
opening and closing the draws in the bridges crossing the
Chicago River, so as to accommodate the local travel across
them at certain times, and to allow the passage of vessels at
others. This operated as a regulation of the commerce on the
river, including interstate and foreign, as well as domestic
commerce. But there being no legislation of Congress to the
contrary, this court held that the power was constitutionally
exercised. Commerce was affected; commerce was even incidentally regulated; but the jurisdiction of the State, and of
the city acting under State authority, was unhesitatingly recognized by the court. Mr. Justice Field, delivering the opinion
of the court, said: "The Chicago River and its branches must,
therefore, be deemed navigable waters of the United States,
over which Congress under its commercial power may exercise
control to the extent necessary to protect, preserve, and improve their free navigation. But the States have full power to
regulate within their limits matters of internal police, including in that general designation whatever will promote the peace,
comfort, convenience, and prosperity of their people. This
power embraces the construction of roads, canals, and bridges,
and the establishment of ferries, and it can generally be exercised more wisely by the States than by a distant authority.
SNowhere could the power to control the bridges in
that city, their construction, form, and strength, and the size
of their draws, and the manner and times of using them, be
better vested than with the State, or the authorities of the city
upon whom it has devolved that duty. When its power is exercised so as to i nnecessarily obstruct the navigation of the
river or its branches, Congress may interfere and remove the
But uintil Congress acts on the subject,
obstruction.
the power of the State over bridges across its navigable streams
is plenary."
The doctrines announced in these cases apply not only to
dams in, and bridges over, navigable streams, but to all struct-

OCTOBER TERM, 1.86.
Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C.J., Bradley, Gray,.JJ.

ures and appliances in a state which may incidentally interfere with commerce, or which may be erected or created for
the furtherance of commerce, whether by water or by land.
It is matter of common knowledge that from the beginning of
the government the States have exercised almost exclusive
control over roads, bridges, ferries, wharves, and harbors. No
one has doubted their right to do so. It is recognized in-the
great case of Gibbonm v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, where Chief Justice
Marshall, after enumerating some of the powers reserved to the
States, says: "They form a portion of that immense mass of
legislation which embraces everything within the territory of a
State, not surrendered to the general government; all which
can be most advantageously exercised by the States themselves. Inspection -laws, quarantine laws, health laws of every
description, as well as laws for regulating the internal commerce of a State, and those which respect turnpike roads, ferries, &c., are component parts of this mass." And ie adds
(what is very pertinent to this discussion): "No direct general
power over these objects is granted to Congress; and, consequently, they remain subject to State legislation. If the legislative power of the Union can reach them, it must be for
national purposes; it must be where the power is expressly
given for a special purpose, or is clearly incidental 'to some
power which is expressly given."
The case of TransportationCo. v. Parkersburg,107 U. S.691,
701, related to wharves. The city of Parkersburg had built
certain wharves for the accommodation of vessels, principally
steamboats, navigating the Ohio River. The Transportation
Company, being the owner of several steamboats plying on that
river, complained of the wharfage charges as being extortionate, and an unconstitutional interference with the commerce of
the Ohio River. It was shown that the charges were imposed
by authority, derived from the State laws; and we held that,
until Congress interfered, the charges for wharfage was a matter of State law and of State jurisdiction. We then said:
"Wharves, levees, and landing-places are essential to commerce by water, no less than a navigable channel and a clear
river. But they are attached to the land they are private

WABASH, &c., RAILWAY CO. v. ILLINOIS.

585

Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C.J., Bradley, Gray, JJ.

property, real estate; and they are primarily, at least, subject
to the local State laws.

Until Congress has acted, the

courts of the United States cannot assume control over the
subject as a matter of Federal cognizance. It is Congress, and
not the judicial department, to which the Constitution has
given the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations
and among the several States. The courts can never take the
initiative on'this subject."
There is a class of subjects, if"
is true, pertaining to interstate
and foreign commerce, which require general and uniform
rules for the whole country, so as to obviate unjust discrimina-

tions against any part, and in respect of which local regulations made by the States would be repugnant to the power
vested in Congress, and, therefore, unconstitutional; but there
are other subjects of local character ar-1 interest which not
only admit of, but are generally best regulated by, State authority. This distinction is pointed out and enforced in the
case of Cooley v. The Port Tardens of Philadelphia,12 How.
299. In that case it was held that the pilotage regulations of
the different ports of the country belong to the latter class,
and are susceptible of State regulation. This case has been
approved in several subsequent decisions. Gilnan v. Philadelphia, ubi 8upra; Crandall v._fevada, 6 Wall. 35, 42; Ex
_2arte .3fcNeill, 13 Wall. 236; Osborne v. .fXobile, 16 Wall.
479,482; Railroad Co. v. Fuller,17 Wall. 560, 569; The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558, 581,, 582; Packet Co. v. Eieokuk, 95
U. S. 80, 88; Pound v. Turek, 95 U. S.459; _rall v. De Cuir,
95 U. S. 485, 488; Tilson v. -Yo4amee, 102 U. S. 572, 575;
.2obile v. .Kinbzall, 102 U. S.691, 698; Packet Co. v. Catlettsburg, 105 U. S. 559, 562.
It is hardly necessary to argue that, in referenue to this rule,
railroads, canals, turnpikes, bridges, ferries, and whar~es belong to the category of local subjects, local means, and local
aids of commercial intercourse. Congress may establish national roads, canals, and bridges, it is true; but we speak of
those (hitherto the most part) which are constructed and established under State authority; and, in reference to these, it
seems to us very clear that, in the absence of congressional

OCTOBER TERM; 1886.
Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C.J., Bradley, Gray, JJ.

legislation to the contrary, they are not only susceptible of
State regulation, but properly amenable to it, irrespective of
other considerations to which we shall refer.
The highways in a State are the highways of the State.
Convenient ways and means of 'intercommunication are the
first evidence of the civilization of a people. The highways of
a country are not of private but of public institution and regulation. In modern times, it is true, gQvernment is in the habit,
in some countries, of letting out the construction of important
highways, requiring a large expenditure of capital, to agents,
generally corporate bodies created for the purpose, and giving
to thein the right of taxing those who travel or transport goods
thereon, as a means of obtaining compensation for their outlay.
But a superintending p, wer over the highways, and the charges
imposed upon the public for their use, always remains in the
government. This. is not only its indefeasible right, but is
necessary for the protection of the people against extortion and
abuse. These positions we deei-n to be incontrovertible. Indeed,
they are adjudged law in the decisions of this court. Railroads
and railroad corporations are in this category.
Now, since every railroad may be, and generally is, a medium
of transportation for interstate commerce, and affects that
commerce; and since the charges of fare and freight for such
transportation affect and incidentally regulate that commerce;
and since the railroad could not be built, and the charges upon
it could not be exacted, without authority from the State, it
follows as a necessary consequence that the State, in the exercise of its undoubted functions and sovereignty, does, in the
establishment and regulation of railroads, to a certain and a very
material extent, not only do that which affects but incidentally
regulates commerce. It does so by the very act of authorizing
the construction of railroads and the collection of fares and
freights thereon. No one doubts its powers to do this. The
very being of the plaintiffs in error, the very existence of their
railroad, the very power they exercise of charging fares and
freights, are all derived from the State. And yet, according to
the argument of the plaintiffs in error, pursued to its legitimate
consequences, the act of the State in doing all this ought to be

WABASH, &c., RAILWAY CO. v. ILLINOIS.

581

Dissenting Opinion: Waite, 0.J., Bradley, Gray, JJ.

regarded as null and void because it operates as a regulation of
commerce among the States. Not only does the right to charge
fares and freights at all come to a railroad company from the
grant of the State, but the amount of such charges is also regulated by the State law, either by the charter of the company,
or by legislative regulations, or by the general law that the
charges shall be reasonable-and that is State law, and not
United States law. Where else but from the laws of the State
does the railroad company get its right to-charge any fares or
freight at all? And since its being, its franchises, its powers,
its road, its right to charge, .all come from the State, and are
the creation of State law, how can it be contended that the
State has no power of regulation over those charges, and over
the conduct of the company in the transaction of its business
whilst acting within the State and using its railroad lyifig
within the bounds of the State?

Oinne majus continet in se

vmnus. If the State created the company and its franchises, it
surely may make regulations as to the manner of using them.
It is evident from what has been said, that the dealing of
a State with a railroad corporation of its own creation, in
authorizing the construction and maintenance of its road and
the charge of fares and freights thereon, is, in its purpose, a
matter entirely aside from that kind of regulation of commerce
which is obnoxious to the provisions of the Constitution. There
is not a particle of doubt that it was the right of the State to
prescribe the route of the plaintiff's road-it might be in a
directi6n north and south, or east and west; it might be by one
town, or by a different town ; it was its right to prescribe how
the road should be built, what means of locomotion should be
used on it, how fast the trains might run, at what stations they
should stop. It was its right to prescribe its charges, and to
declare that they should be uniform, or, if not uniform, how
otherwise: this certainly was the right of the State at the
inception of the charter, and, every one of these things would
most materially affect commerce, not only internal but external;
and yet not one of them would be repugnant to the power of
Congress to regulate commerce within the meaning of the
Constitution.

โข588

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C.., Bradley, Gray, JJ.

Suppose the original charter of the railroad company in this
case had contained precisely the provision against discriminating charges which is contained in the general law now
complained of, could the company disregard the conditions of
its charter, and defy the authority of 'the State? We think it
clear that it could not. But if the State had the power to impose such a condition in the original charter, it must have the
same power at any time afterwards; for the exercise of the
power in the original grant would be just as repugnant to the
Constitution, and no more, as the exercise of it at a subsequent
period. The regulation of charges is just as unconstitutional in
a charter as in a general law.
To sum up the matter in a word: we hold it to be a sound
proposition of law, that the making of railroads and regulating
the charges for their use is not such a regulation of commerce
as to be in the remotest degree repugnant to any power given
to Congress by the Constitution, so long as that power is dormant, and has not been exercised by Congress. They affect
commerce, they incidentally regulate it; but they are acts in
relation to the subject which the State has a perfect right
to do, subject, always, to the controlling power of Congress
over the regulation of commerce when Congress sees fit to act.
It is only for the sake of convenience that the State lets out
its railroads to private corporations. It might construct them
itself. Suppose it had done so in this case : could not the State
have instituted such rates of freight and fareas it pleased?
CertainlV it could. It might have made them uniform, as the
present law requires them to be, or it miglt have made them
discriminative between different places, and no one could have
called it to account. Instructions in the form of laws, or in
the form of Orders made by a State board, might have been
given to the superintendents of the road, acting in behalf of
the State, to *adopV the one course or the other. Could the
agents of the State,. acting under such instructions, have been
interfered with by the judicial department on the ground of
unconstitutionality? .Certainly not; certainly not, unless discriminations were made to the prejudice of the citizens of other
States, or of the products of other States.

WABASH, &c., RAILWAY CO. v. ILLINOIS.

589

Dissenting Opinion: 'Waite,C.J., Bradley, Gray, JJ.

The State of New York built and owns the Erie Canal. Did
any court ever attempt to control that State in its regulation
of tolls on the canal, even though made for the purpose of affecting the relative movement of goods on the canal and the
railroads of the State? We presume that no such attempt was
ever made, or would be successful if made.
It is true, and this we concede, that if the laws of a State
discriminate adversely to the citizens or products of other
States, whether the railroads belong to the State or to private
corporations, the courts might interfere on the ground of the
repugnancy of such regulations to that freedom of commerce
which Congress by its non-action on the subject has indicated
shall exist. This has been frequently decided. Melton v.
.Missouri,91 U. S. 275, 282; Brown v. HRston, 114 U. S. 622,
631, and cases there cited. But no such discrimination is made
by the law in question.
We also concede that any taxes, duties, or impositions upon.
interstate commerce (that is, upon the commerce itself), carried
on over the railroads of the State, would interfere with the
freedom of such commerce, and would be repugnant to the
presumed intention of Congress. This has frequently been decided. Crandall v. -Nevada,6 Wall. 35; State Freight Tax
Cases, 15 Wall. 232; Coe v. Eirol, 116 U. S. 517; and the authorities cited in the latter case. But the present is not a case
of that kind, and has no semblance of likeness to it. All such
discriminations, taxes, duties; and impositions are direct regulations ad burdens upon the commerce itself, and come fairly
within the exclusive prerogatives of Congress.
The distinction between such burdens and charges for service rendered is well explained in the case of The Gloucester
Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196, 217, where Mr.
Justice Field, delivering the unanimous opinion of the court,
in relation to ferries, says: "It is true that, from the earliest
period in the history of the government, the States have authorized and regulated ferries, not only over waters entirely within
their limits, but over waters separating them.; and it may be
conceded that in many respects the States can more advantageously manage such interstate ferries than the general govern-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C.J., Bradley, Gray, JJ.

ment; and that the privilege of keeping a ferry, with a right
to take toll for passengers and freight, is a franchise grantable
by the State, to be exercised within such limits and under
such regulations as may be required for the safety, comfort,
and convenience of the public. Still the fact remains that
such a ferry is a means, and a necessary means, of cammercial
intercourse between the States bordering on their dividing
waters, and it must, therefore, be conducted without the imposition by the States of taxes or other burdens upon the commerce between them. Freedom from such impositions does
not, Qf course, iinply exemption from reasonable charges, as
compensation for the carriage of persons, in tne way of tolls or
fares, or 'from the ordinary taxation to which other property is
subjected, any more than like freedom of transportation on land
implies such exemption. Reasonable charges for the use of
-property, either on water or land, are not an interference with
the freedom of transportation between the States secured under
the commercial power of Congress.

That freedom

implies exemption from other charges than such as are imposed
by way of compensation for the use of the property employed,
or for the' facilities afforded for its use, or as ordinary taxes
upon the value of property.",
This subject in many of its aspects was considered by this
court in the case of Railroad Company v. 2-arylaid, 21
Wall. 456, 471-3. In that case, in a charter for constructing and operating a railroad from Baltimore to Washington,
authority was given to the company to charge two dollars and
a half for each passenger, and it was stipulated that the company should pay to the State 'one-fifth. of the whole amount
received for the transportation of passengers on the road. The
company sued for a return of the sums paid on this account, as
being exacted by an unconstitutional law. It was insisted that
the reservation was equivalent to the imposition 'of a tak on
. passengers, and, therefore, a restriction of free intercourse and
traffic between different States-much of the travel being that
of passengers -coming from, or going to, other States. The
argumentj that the reservation of one-fifth of the passagemoney necessitated an increased charge upon the passenger

WABASH, &c., RAILWAY CO. v. ILLINOIS.

591

Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C.3., Bradley, Gray, JJ.

was met by this court as follows: "Had the State built the
road in question, it might to .this day, unchallenged and unchallengeable, have charged two dollars and fifty cents for
carrying a passenger between Baltimore and Washington. So
might the railroad company under authority from the State, if
it saw fit to do so.

.

.

.

This unlimited right of the State

to charge, or to authorize others to charge, toll, freight, or
fare for transportation on its roads, canals, and railroads, arises
from the simple fact that they are its own works, or constructed under its authority. It gives them being. It has a
right to exact compensation for their use. It has a discretion
as to the amount of that compensation. That discretion is a
legislative-a sovereign-discretion, and in its very nature is
unrestricted and uncontrolled.

.

.

The exercise of [this]

power on the part of a State is very different from the imposition of a tax or duty upon the movements or operations of
commerce between the States. Such an imposition, whether
relating to persons or goods, we have decided the States cannot
make, because it would be a regulation of commerce between
the States in a matter in which uniformity is essential to the
rights of all, and, therefore, requiring the exclusive legislation
of Congress. Cr'andallv. -Yevada, 6 Wall. 42; State Fr'eight
Tax Cases:16 Wall. 232, 279. It is a tax because of the "ransportation, and is, therefore, virtually a tax on the transportation, and not in any sense a compensation therefor, or for the
franchises enjoyed by the corporation that perform it.
The question is practically reduced to this: What amounts to
a regulation of commerce between the States? This is oftEn
difficult to determine. In view, however, of the very plenary
powers which a State has always been conceded to have over
its own territory, its highways, its franchises, and its corporations, we cannot regard the stipulation in question as amounting to either of these unconstitutional acts. It is not within
the category of such acts. It may incidentally affect transportation, it is true; but so does every burden or tax imposed
on corporations or persons engaged in that business. Such
burdens, however, are imposed diverso intuin,and in the exercise of an undoubted power."

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C.J., Bradley, Gray, JJ.

But it is needless to multiply citations which establish or
recognize the principles which govern the present case. The
very point in question has been already expressly decided by
this court. We refer to the case of Peik v. The Chicago 6
Northwestern Railway, 94 U. S. 164, 175, 177-8. That was a
bill filed, by the bondholders of the company to restrain the
Railroad Commissioners of Wisconsin from enforcing a law of
that State limiting the rate of charges for transporting passengers and freights on the railroads of the State. The bill,
imongst other things, complained that the classes of freight
established by ยง 3 of the act were different from those established by the laws of Illinois, Iowa, and Minnesota, for the
transportation of freight upon the railroads of the same company in those States, and rendered it practically impossible to
carry on the business of transporting freight from Wisconsin to
either of those States; and that the 18th section (limiting the
rdtes) was a regulation of interstate commerce. The act excepted from its operation the case of freiglit or passengers
carried from one State to another State entirely through or
across the State of Wisconsin. It did operate on freight and
passengers carried from another State to any point within the
State of Wisconsin, or from any such point to another State.
The Chief Justice, in delivering the opinion-of the court, states
the precise question to be decided, as follows: "These suits
present the single question of the power of the Legislature of
Wisconsin to provide by law for a maximum of charge by the
Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company. for fare and
freight upon the transportation of persons and property carried
within the State, or taken up outside the State and brought
within it, or taken up inside and carried without." He then,
after disposing of certain other questions relating to the consolidation of the company with an Illinois company, disposes
of the main question as follows: ' As to the effect of the
statute as a regulation of interstate commerce. The law is
confined to State commerce, or such interstate commerce as
directly affects the people of Wisconsin. Until Congress acts
in reference to the relations of this company to interstate commerce, it is certainly within the power of Wisconsin to regu-

WABASH, &c., RAILWAY CO. v. ILLINOIS.
Dissenting Opinion: Waite,

593

C.J., Bradley, dray, JJ.

late its fares, &c., so far as theyare of domestic concern. With
the people of Wisconsin this company has domestic relations.
Incidentally, these may reach beyond the State. But certainly, until Congress undertakes to legislate for those who are
without the State, Wisconsin may provide for those within,
even though it may indirectly affect those without." The law
was sustained, and the bill of complaint was dismissed.
We do not see how this case can be distinguished from that
now under- consideration. The fact that in Peik's case there
was a classification of freights and-a liraitation of charges, and
in the present case a pr6hibition of -discrimination in the
charges, is a distinction without a difference. The opinion is
brief, it is true, but all the principles involved in it were so
fully discussed in the cases immediately preceding, beginiiing
with that of .unn v. Illinois, that no extended discussion of
Peik's case was deemed necessary. All the justices who concurred in the opinion were entirely satisfied with it. The cases
were all argued at the same time, or in reference to each other,
and were considered together. But there stands the judgrent
o the court, and, in our apprehension, the judgment in the
present case is directly opposed to it.
We have omitted to cite a number of cases corroborating'
the views we have expressed. The case of State Ta, -on Railway Gross Receipts, 15 Wall. 281, is weighted with argumients
and considerations in this direction. We would also refer to
the cases of Os3orne v. M[obile, 16 Wall. 479 ; Railroad Co. v.
Fuller,17 Wall. 560; Railroad Commission Cases, 116 U. S.

307, 8.34, 335.
It is supposed that the decision in Hall v. De Cuir, 95 U. S.
485, 488-9, supports the contention of the plaintiffs in error.
We think not. What, was that case? A statute of Louisiana,
as construed by its courts, prohibited those engaged in the
business of carrying passengers, in that State (including those
engaged in interstate commerce), from making any discrimination on account of race or color in the use of the accommodations of their conveyances-a direct regulation of commerce,
and within the reason of the tax cases before referred to. A,
steamer which regularly plied between New Orleans and
VOL. CXVni-38

OCTOBER TERM,, 1886.
Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C.J., Bradley, Gray, JJ.

Vicksburg had a cabin specially set apart for white persons,
and De Cuir, a colored person, being refused admission to that
cabin, sued for damages. We held that the law (as above suggested) was a direct regillation of commerce and a 'burden
upon it. It compelled the steamboat pioprietor to place
colored persons travelling from one place to another in Louisiana in the cabin set apart for white persons, many of whom
were bound to another State; and, therefore, in its operation
was a regulation of interstate commerce. -It was against the
rule that, in the absence of action by Congress, commerce
must remain free and untrammelled. By that rule.the proprietor of the vessel was at liberty to adopt such reasonable
rules and regulations for the disposition and comfort of passengers upon his boat, while pursuing its voyage, as seemed to
him most for the interest of all concerned. The statute took
away from him this power so long as he was within Louisiana.
We especially distinguished the case from Al.unn v. -Illinois,
Peik v. Railway Co., and the cognate cases, as belonging to a
different category, and governed by different considerations;
and the difference between them seems to us very apparent.
The Chief Justice, in delivering the opinion of the court,
said: "There can be no doubt but that exclusive power has
been conferred upon Congress in respect to the regulation-of
commerce among the several States. The difficulty has never
been as to the existence of this power, but as to what is to be
deemed an encroachment upon it; for, as has been often said,
'legislation may in a great variety of ways affect bommerce
and persons engaged in it without constituting a regulation of
it within the meaning of the Constitution.' Sherlock v. Alling,
'93 U. S. 103 ; State "Ta on Railway Gross Receipts, 15 Wall.
284. Thus, in Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113, it was decided
that a State might regulate the charges of public warehouses,
and, in Ohicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad v. kowa, 94
U. S. 155, of railroads situate entirely within the State, even
though those engaged in commerce among the States might
sometimes use the warehouses or the railroads in the prosecution
of their business." After referring to the cases of dams and
bridges over navigable waters, and of turnpikes and ferries, the

WABASH, &c., RAILWAY CO. v. ILLINOIS.

595'

Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C.J., Bradley, Gray, JJ.

Chief Justice continued : "By such statutes the States regulate,
as a matter of domestic concern, the instruments of commerce
situated wholly within their own jurisdictions, and over which
they have exclusive governmental control, except when employed in foreign or interstate commerce. As they can only
be used in the State, their regulation for all purposes may
properly be assumed by the State, until Congress acts in reference to their foreign or interstate relations. When Congress
does act, the State laws are superseded only to the extent that
they affect commerce ou.tside the State as it comes within the
State." He then added: "But we think it may safely be said
that State legislation which seeks to impose a direct burden
upon interstate commerce, or to interfere directly with its
freedom, does encroach upon the exclusive power of Congress.
The statute no* under consideration, in our opinion, occupies
that position. It does not act upon the business through the
local instruments to be employed after coming within the State,
but directly upon the btLsiness as it comes into the State from
without, or goes out from within." The distinction here taken
seems to us sound, and to distinguish the present case from that
of De .uir. In the Peik case, and others of like character,
the State regulated thu charges made upon an instrument of
commerce (a railroad) situated within the State and under its
jurisdiction-such clh 'ges being made by virtue of the State's
authority; in the De Cuir case it attempted, as the law operated,
to regulate the manner of carrying passengers on an instrument of commerce haviiig no, fixed location, but plying on
navigable waters within and without the State; in other words,
it attempted to regulate interstate commerce itself, directly, in
a matter in which it had no special prerogative to legislate.
Other cases are referred to by the plaintiffs in error in support of their contention; but we think that no case can be
found which is not clearly distinguishable from the present on
some or one of the grounds already referred to.
The inconveniences which it has been supposed in argument
would follow from the execution of the laws of Illinois, we
think have been greatly exaggerated. But if it should be
found to present any real difficulty in the modes of transacting

