GRAHAM v. BOSTON, HARTFORD & ERIE RR. CO. 161
Syllabus.

ing of the note in suit the statutes both of Massachusetts and
of Vermont had defined reasonable time for this purpose to be'
sixty days from the date of the note.

Mass. Gen. Stat. 1860,

ch. 53, §§ 8, 10; Pub. Stat. 1882, ch. 77, §§ 12, 14; Vermont
Stat. 1870, oh. 70; Rev. Laws 1880, § 2013. The power of
the State legislatures to establish such a rule prospectively,
with regard to promissory notes made and payable within
their respective jurisdictions, has not been and cannot be
doubted.
The note in suit was endorsed to the plaintiff more than
sixty days after its date. It was made in Massachusetts, and,
if not payable there, was payable in Vermont, where the defendant was incorporated. The construction and effect of the
contract must be governed by the law of the one 'or the other
of thoe States; and it is superfluous to consider by which,
because by the law of either the note was overdue when the
plaintiff took it, and therefore he cannot recover upon it.
As to the evidence, stated in the report of, the referee, upon
which the plaintiff relies as tending to prove a promise to
himself by the defendant to pay the note, it is sufficient to say
that, it not being shown that the plaintiff, in consideration of
or reliance upon such a promise, either agreed to forbear or
actually forbore to sue; there was no consideration for the
promise, and no ground for giving it effect as an estoppel.
Judgment afirmed.

GRAHAM & Another v. BOSTON, HARTFORD & ERIE
RAILROAD COMPANY & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MASSTACHUSETTS.
Argued April 15,16, 19, 1886.-Decided May 10, 1886.

The Boston, Hartford & Erie Railroad Company became a corporation of the
State of New York, by virtue of the, act of the legislature of that State,
passed April 25, 1864, Laws of New York, 1864, ch. 385, p. 884, it being
already a corporation of Connecticut. Massachusetts and Rhode Island.

A meeting in one of several States of the stockholders of a corporation charVOL. Cx1-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.
tered by all those States is valid in respect to the property of the corporation in all of thern, without the necessity of the repetition of the meeting
in any other of those States.
A railroad corporation, which, though made up of distinct corporations, chartered by the legislatures of different States, has a capital stock which is a
unit, and only one set of shareholders, who have an interest, by virtue of
their ownership of shares of the stock, in all of its property everywhere,
has a domicil in each State, and the corporation or shareholders can, in
the absence of any statutory provision to the contrary, hold meetings and
transact corporate business in any one State, so as to bind the corporation
as to its property everywhere.
The Berdel mortgage, executed by the Boston, Hartford & Erie Railroad
Company, March 19, 1866, was valid originally, and the proceedings of the
company whereby the mortgage was made -were ratified by the legislatures
of the four States above named, which included the holding in the city of
New York of the meeting of the shareholders which authorized the making
of the mortgage.
The invalidity of some of the bonds secured by the mortgage cannot affect the
validity of the mortgage or the validity of proceedings for its foreclosure.
The "mortgage having been duly foreclosed under proceedings in a suit to
which the corporation was a party, and the suit being still fending, a shareholder in the corporation cannot, by a bill in equity in another court, attack
the foreclosure proceedings for fraud in conducting them. His remedy is
by an application in the foreclosure suit.
Such shareholder is a party to proceedings in involuntary bankruptcy against
the corporation, and, therefore, cannot collaterally impeach the proceedings. His remedy is to apply to the bankruptcy court, or to seek a review
in the Circuit Court.
'The bill being filed fourteen years after the making of the mortgage, ten years
after the commencement of the bankruptcy proceedings, nine years after
the entry of the decree of foreclosure, and seven years after th foreclosure
became absolute and the road tvas conveyed to a new corporation formed
by the holders of bonds secured by the mortgage, a demurrer to the lill
for
laches was sustained.

Bill in equity.
court.

The case is stated in the opinion of the

-Yr. Fugene M. Johnson and -'r. Benjamin F. Butler (.1fr.
R- A. -Pryorand kfr. C. F.Beach,Jr., were with them), for
appellants.
-r.- Charles X. R eed for Healey appellee.
rT.C. S. Bradley and .Xr. J C. Gray for appellees Bradley, Chapman and Barnard.

GRAHAM v. BOSTON, HARTFORD & ERIE R.R. CO.

163

Opinion of the Court.

.1r. William G. Russell and Jfr Villiam Caleb Zorina for
the New York & New England Railfroad Company, and Hart
and Clark appellees.
Mn. JUSTEn BL&TCXiFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity, filed in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Massachusetts, on the 8th of July,
1880, by William F. Graham, an alien, the owner of 500 shares
of the capital stock of the Boston, Hartford and Erie Railroad
Company, en behalf not only of himself, but of every stockholder and creditor of the company who may join in the suit
and contribute to its expense, to set aside as invalid a mortgage
given by the company, dated March 19, 1866, covering its
railroad, franchises and property, existing and future, to Robert
I. Berdell, Dudley S. Gregory, and John C. Bancroft Davis,
as trustees, to secure the payment of an issue of bonds of the
company to the amount of $20,000,000. The defendants are
that company and its assignees in bankruptcy; the New York
and New England Railroad Company, which is in possession
of and operating the railroad; certain persons now living, and
the personal representatives of others now deceased, who have,
at different times, acted as trustees under the mortgage; the
treasurer and receiver general of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts; George Ellis, Frederick A. Lane, and William C.
Eayrs.
Afterwards Amelia T. Raymond, a holder of 100 shares, and
two other shareholders, were aahnitted as co-plaintiffs. Four
separate demurrers to the bill were filed, one of them being by
the assignees in bankruptcy, and another by the New York and
New England Railroad Company. They set forth, as grounds
of demurrer, among other things, want of equity and laches.
The case was heard on the demurrers, and in Jauuary, 1883, a
decision was rendered, 14 Fed. Rep., 753, dismissing the bill, on
ivhich a decree to that effect was entered, from which Graham
and Raymond have appealed.
The mortgage covered all the property of the company in
Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, and New York. In
December, 1865, there remained to be built, of the projetted

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

line of the road, 74 miles between Waterbury, Connecticut, and
Fishkill, New York, and 26 miles in Connecticut, between Willimantip and Mechanicsville. The aggregate amount of liens,
at that time, on the property and franchises owned or leased
by- the company, and which Were prior liens to the $20,000,000
mortgage, (which will be called the Berdell mortgage,) was
$9,904,650. The object of making the Berdell mortgage was
to retire this prior lien debt and complete and equip the road,
from Boston to Fishkill.
In January, 1870, default was made in paying the six months'
interest which then fell due on the mortgage. Soon thereafter,
the company's -property was taken on legal process in several
suits.
In July, 1870, George Ellis. and two other persons filed a
bill in equity, in the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts,
to foreclose the mortgage. Receivers were appointed, who
took possession of the road August 2,1870.
In October, 1870, an involuntary petition in bankruptcy was
filed against the company, in the District Court of the United
States for the District of Massachusetts, on which an adjudication was made March 2, 1871. Assignees were appointed,
who, after the foreclosure was perfected, released to the trustees under the mortgage all the rights of the company in the
mortgaged property.
On the 9th of May, 1871, a decree was made in the Ellis suit,
providing for the delivery of the mortgaged property by the
receivers to the trustees; for the filing by the latter, in the office
of the Secretaries of State of Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, and New York, of a notice that ihey had taken possession of the property for default in the payment of interest
on the bonds, "and with their purpose" to foreclose the mortgage for such default; and for the vesting of the property absolutely and in fee in the trustees, if default in the performance
of the condition of the mortgage should continue for eighteen
months after the notice should be filed, in which case all equity
of redemption of the mortgagor should be barred.
In.September, 1871, the trustees entered and took possession
for foreclosure and filed the notices so provided for. The no-

GRAHAM1 v. BOSTON, HARTFORD & ERIE R.R. CO.

165

Opinion of the Court.
tices were of the character mentioned in the mortgage, which
provided that, if a default in paying principal or interest should
continue for eighteen months after the filing of the notices, the
property should vest in fee in the trustees, without further
process of law, and all equity of redemption of the mortgagor
should be barred.
The forclosure having been perfected, the trustees, pursuant
to a decree made in June, 1875, in the Ellis suit, conveyed the
mortgaged premises and franchises to the New York and
New England Railroad Company, a corporation organized by
the former bondholders, and delivered to it the property.
The first ground alleged in the bill for declaring the mortgage invalid is, that it was authorized and made at a meeting
of the shareholders of the company held in the city of New
York; that it was not a corporation of New York, but was a
corporation of Connecticut, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island;
and that, therefore, the meeting was illegal and the mortgage
void. The Circuit Court held that the corporation was a New
York corporation; that the meeting was lawfully held; and
that its proceedings were valid and binding on the company.
In the mortgage the company is described as "a corporation
existing under the laws of the States of New York, Connecticut, Rhode Island, and Massachusetts." The mortgage recites
that "the shareholders of the Boston, Hartford and Erie railroad Company, at a meeting duly and lawfully called and held
at the city of New York, on the fourteenth day of March, A.D.
1866, voted to authorize the directors to make application to
the several legislatures of the States in which the chartered
rights of the road exist, for authority to make a mortgageupon the whole or any portion of the line of the road, and to
create, issue, and dispose of, at 'the best rates that can be obtained, their convertible bonds, payable in the city of New
York, on the first day of July, A.D. 1900, for one thousand dollars each, not Fo exceed the amount of twenty millions of dollars in all," with authority to the directors to make a portion
of the bonds payable in London, "interest payable semi-annually on the first days of January and July in each year, at the
rate of seven per cent. per annum, interest and principal to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

payable at such places in the city of New York or in London
as the directors may authorize; and the particular form of
bonds, interest warrants thereon, and mortgage, to be left entirely at the discretion of the board of directors; the said bonds
to be issued for the purpose of providing for and retiring all
the existing mortgage debt and prior liens upon the line of the
road of the party of the first part, and for the purpose of completing and equipping their road;" that "the said board of directors, at a meeting duly convened and held in the city of
New York, on the nineteenth day of March, 1866, voted to
authorize the creation and issue of the first-mortgage bonds of
said company, in the following form " (a form of a bond is here
inserted) ; and that "the said directors, at their said meeting,
further voted to empower bonds of said form

.

.

here-

after to be issued, and to be secured under the mortgage,
.
. .but
not in a greater principal sum than twenty millions of dollars in all; .
.
and further, at tfe same time,

voted to secure the entire issue of said bonds by the execution
of a mortgage in the form-of these presents." It then conveys
to the trustees named the railroad of the company, commencing at the foot of Summer street, in Boston, and thence extending through the States of M assachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode
Island, and New York, to the western terminus of its location
on the east bank of the Hudson River, at Fishkill, together
with all the privileges, franchises, and property then owned or
thereafter to be acquired by the company.
On the 25th of April, 1864, an act had been passed by the
Legislature of New York, Laws of New York, 186-, ch. 385, p.
884, entitled "An Act to consolidate the Boston, Hartford and
Erie, the Boston, Hartford and Erie Extension, and the Boston,
Hartford and Erie Ferry Extension Railroad Companies." It
provided as follows: "The Boston, Hartford and Erie Extension Railroad Company, and the Boston, Hartford and Erie
Ferry Extension Railroad Company, may both, or either, sell
and convey to the Boston, Hartford and Erie Railroad Cornpany the franchise and property of said several corporations,
upon such terms as may be mutually agreed upon; and whenever certificates, under oath, of said Boston, Hartford and Erie

GRAHAM v. BOSTOI, HARTFORD & ERIE R.R. CO.

167

Opinion of the Court.
Railroad Company, and a like certificate, under oath, of the
other contracting corporation, shall be lodged in the office of
the Secretary of State, showing such sale and conveyance, and
containing a full description of the rights and property conveyed, then, and in such case, such sale and conveyance shall
be effectual in law to pass title to the franchise and property
sold, conveyed, and described in such certificate, without other
or further registry of the instrument of conveyance. And on
the leaving of such certificate as above provided, the Secretary
of State shall file and record the same, and said Boston, Hartford and Erie Railroad Company shall become possessed of the
rights of charter and property sold, conveyed, and described in
said certificates, and may have, hold, and use the same in their
own name and right, as a portion of their railway line and
property, and have all the rights the corporation making sale
and conveyance had at the time of such conveyance, to construct and operate a railway within the terminal points designated in the charter of the company maldng the conveyance,
and subject to the laws of this State, passed, or that may be
passed, concerning -railroad corporations."
This act professes, in its title, to be an act to consolidate
the three companies. It authorizes the sale to the Boston,
Hartford and Erie Company of the franchises and property of
the other two corporations, (which were New York corporations,) and provides that such sale shall pass the title to such
franchises and property, and that the purchasing company
shall thereby "become possessed of the rights of charter and
property sold," and thereafter have, hold, and use the same in
its "own name and right."
As a purchaser of what this act authorized to be sold to it,
the company purchasing became a New York corporation, by
its then existing name. The case is directly within the ruling
of this court in Clark v. Barnard,108 -U. S. 436, 448. There
this same company had, as a Connecticut corporation, purchased
the franchises and railroad of the Hartford, Providence and
Fishkill Railroad Company, a consolidated corporation under
the laws of Connecticut and Rhode Island. Afterwards the
Legislature of Rhode Island ratified the sale, so far as the rail-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

road was situated in Rhode Island, by an act which proceeded
to declare that the " said Boston, Hartford and Erie Railroad
Company, by that name, shall and may have, use, exercise,
and enjoy all the rights, privileges, and powers heretofore
granted and belonging to said Hartford, Providence and Fishkill Railroad Company, and be subject to all the duties and
liabilities imposed upon the same by its charter and the
general laws of this State." On this state of facts, this court
said: "The Hartford, Providence and Fishkill Railroad Company was, without question, so far as it owned and operated a
railroad within the State of Rhode Island, a corporation in
and of that State; and the Boston, Hartford and Erie Railroad Company became its legal successor in that State, as
owner of its property, and exercising its franchises therein, and
became, therefore, in respect to its railroad in Rhode Island, a
corporation in and of that State;" and the case of Railroad
Co. v. .Harris,12 Wall. 65, 82, and other cases in this court,
were cited to the effect that one State may make a corporation
of another State, as there organized and conducted, a corporation of its own, quoad any property within its territorial jurisdiction.
That this statute of New York was acted upon and availed
of by the Boston, Hartford and Erie Company sufficiently appears from the bill. It is not pretended there was any other
charter to the company from the State of New York, when
the mortgage was made. The ratification of the mortgage by
the Legislature of New York, hereafter mentioned; the recording of the mortgage and of the resignations and appointments
of trustees, in counties in New York; and the recognition, by
a statute of New York, passed May 21, 1873, Laws of New
York, 1873, ch. 550, p. 861, of the New York and New England Company as the successor, as a corporation, through the
mortgage, of -the mortgagor company, sufficiently show that
the New York interest came through the New York act of
April 25, 1864. See, also, In re Boston, .Hartordand rie
. .R. Co., 9 Blatchford, 409, 415.
That a meeting in one of several States of the stockholders
of a corporation chartered by all those States is valid in re.

GRAHAM v. BOSTON, HARTFORD & ERIE R.R. CO.

169

Opinion of the Court.
spect to the property of the corporation in all of them, without
the necessity of a repetition of the meeting in any other of
those States, is, we think, a sound proposition. Whether it be
or be not true that proceedings of persons professing to act as
corporators, when assembled without the bounds of the sovereignty granting the charter, are void, .Afiller v. Ewer, 27
:Maine, 509, there is no principle which requires that the corporators of this consolidated corporation should meet in more
than one of the States in which it has a domicil, in order to
the validity of a corporate act.
It appears by the bill that the mortgagor corporation was
chartered by its name, by.the Legislature of Connecicut, at
its May session, 1863 ; that thereafter acts were passed by the
Legislatures of Massachusetts and Rhode Island, making it a
corporation of those States; that, in August, 1863, the Southern :Midland Railroad Company, having previously acquired
all the franchises and property of the Boston and New York
Central Railroad Company, a corpoiation chartered under the
laws of Massachusetts, Connecticut, and New York, conveyed
all its franchises and property to the Boston, Hartford and
Erie Company; and that, in November, 1863, the latter company, under authority contained in acts of the legislatures
of all four of the States, acquired the franchises and property
of the Hartford, Providence and Fishkill Railroad Company,
a corporation created under the laws of New York, Rhode
Island, and Connecticut.
The toston, Hartford and Erie Company, therefore, though
made up of distinct corporations, chartered by the legislatures
of different States, had a capital stock which was a unit, and
only one set of shareholders, who had an interest, by virtue of
their ownership of shares of such stock, in all of its property
everywhere. In its organization and action, and the practical
management of its property, it was one corporation, having
one board of directors, though, in its relations to any State, it
was a separate corporation, governed by the laws of that State
as to its property therein. It, therefore, had a dounicil in each
State, and the corporators or shareholders could, in the absence of any statutory provision to the contrary, hold meet-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

ings and transact corporate business in any one State, so as to
bind the corporation in respect to its property everywhere.
Bridge Co. v. 17layer, 31 Ohio St. 317 ; Pierce on Railroads, 20.
In addition to this, the Legislatures of Rhode Island, New
York, Massachusetts and Connecticut, by acts passed after the
mortgage was made, expressly ratified and confirmed the proceedings of the company in making it, each act being substantially in these words: "The proceedings of the Boston,
Hartford and Erie Railroad Company, whereby, by indenture
dated March nineteenth, eighteen hundred and sixty-six, they
conveyed their railroad and property in mortgage to Robert
H. Berdell, Dudley S. Gregory, and John C.Bancroft Davis,
trustees of the bondholders in said mortgage mentioned, to
secure the holders of said bonds the payment of the same, are
hereby ratified and confirmed." Private Acts of Rhode
Island, January Session, 1866, p. 294; Laws of New York,
1866, ch. 789; Laws of Massachusetts, 1866, ch. 142; Private
Acts of Connecticut, May ,Session, 1866, p. 169. These acts
ratified "the proceedings" of the company whereby the mortgage was made. As the mortgage states, on its face, that the
meeting of the shareholders at which they voted to authorize
the directors to apply for legislative authority to make the
mortgage was "duly and lawfully called and held at the city
of New York," the holding of the meeting there was ratified
as a part of the proceedings.
The irregularity, if any, was one which the legislatures of
the four States bould rectify, as they did, because all of them,
acting together for the one purpose, could have authorized in
advance the holding of the meeting at New York. Grenada
Co. v. Brogden, 112 U. S.261; Ander8on v. Santa,Anna, 116
U. S. 356; Shaw v. .NoYfolk R. R. Co., 5 Gray, 162; Howe v.
Freeman,14 Gray, 566.
It is urged-by the appellants, that it appears from the mortgage, that the vote at the meeting was merely one to authorize the directors to apply to the several legislatures for authority to make a mortgage; that five days after the vote the
mortgage was executed; that the shareholders never voted
to authorize the making of a mortgage; and that, therefore,

GRAHAM v. BOSTONT, HARTFORD & ERIE R.R. CO.

171

Opinion of the Court.

the mortgage was invalid. The sufficient answer to this contention is, that the terms of the vote, as recited in the mortgage,
are adequate to confer authority on the directors, acting for the
company, to make the mortgage, after the legislatures should
have granted authority to. make it; and that the subsequent
ratification by the legislatures is equivalent to previous authority. The terms of thd mortgage are specified in detail in the
vote, the mortgage conforms to them, and the vote is to be
construed as covering authority from the shareholders to make
the mortgage, if legislative authority should be given. It
sufficiently appears that the four confirmatory acts were passed
before the mortgage was recorded anywhere, and before any
bonds secured by it were issued.
Moreover, the mortgage has been ratified by acts of the
legislatures of the four States confirming the organization of
the New York and New England Railroad Company, as successor, through the mortgage, of the Boston, Hartford and Erie
Company. The acts of Massachusetts and Connecticut are
substantially in these terms: "The proceedings of the holders of the bonds secured by mortgage, dated March nineteen,
eighteen hundred and sixty-six, from the Boston, Hartford and
Erie Railroad Company to Robert H. Berdell and others,
whereby they -have formed a corporation under the name of the
New York and New England Railroad Company, are ratified
and confirmed." Laws of Massachusetts, 1873, ch. 289; Special
Acts of Connecticut, May Session, 1873, p. 8. The act of Rhode
Island iA in these terms: "The New York and New England
Railroad Company, being a corporation formed under the provisions of a mortgage made by the Boston, Hartford and Erie
Railroad Company to Robert H. Berdell and others, trustees, and
ratified and confirmed by the General Assembly at the January
session, 1866, is hereby recognized and declared to be a corporation invested with all the powers, privileges and franwhises,
and subject to all the duties, liabilities and restrictions of said
Boston, Hartford and Erie Railroad Company, as is provided
in said mortgage, and the proceedings of the holders of the
bonds secured by said mortgage, whereby they have formed
said corporation, are hereby ratified and confirmed." Private

OCTOBER TERM, 1885,
Opinion of the Cou.t

Acts of Rhode Island, May Session 1873, p. 13. The act of
New York extends for two years the time for the completion
of the Boston, Hartford and Erie Railroad, and then says:
"The benefit of this extension of time shall vest in the New
York and New England Railroad Company, a corporation
formed under the provisions of the mortgage ratified and confirmed by chapter seven hundred and eighty-nine of the laws
of eighteen hundred and sixty-six." Laws of New York, 1873,
ch. 550.
It is also contended by the appellants, that the mortgage was
void for fraud. The bill contains these allegations: "And your
orator is informed and believes, and therefore avers, that said
meeting was held in the State of New York, beyond the States
in which said corporation was created, so that as few stockholders as possible, because of the distance from their homes,
might attend said meeting, in order that the stockholders present, representing or acting in the interest of the Erie Railway,
might, by authorizing a mortgage of its franchises, raise a large
sum of money, a portion of which should afterwards be diverted
to the use of said Erie Railway; which was done, as is hereinafter
fully set forth, to the extent of five millions of dollars. And
your orator claims that by reason of the meeting being so
held for the purposes aforesaid, and in the place aforesaid, said
meeting was illegal, and all its acts and doings were null and
void." "And your orator, upon information and belief, further
avers, that on or about October in the year 1867, said Eldridge,
then being the president of the Boston, Hartford and Erie Railroad, and also president of the Erie Railway, and while said
Davis and Gregory were trustees as aforesaid, and said Davis
being the legal counsel and adviser of said Erie Railway, said
parties colluded and agreed together as such trustees, and
the president of said Boston, Hartford and Erie Railroad, and
as well of the Erie Railway, of which the majority of said
trustees were counsel and president, and sold five millions of
said bonds at a discount of twenty per cent., receiving therefor
the promises to pay at future dates, the exact dates of which
your orator is ignorant, but which will appear upon the books
of said railroad, which were afterwards discounted at great loss

GRAHAM3 v. BOSTON, HARTFORD & ERIE R.R. CO.

173

Opinion of the Court.
and cost to said Boston, Hartford and Erie Railroad, in order
to convert the same into cash, and the money obtained there6n
was not used in equipping and finishing said road, nor in taking
up the underlying liens on said road, but was used in paying
the losses that said officers of said Boston, Hartford and Erie
Railroad had made in speculations in stocks in the name of said
road. And your orator, upon information and belief, further
avers, that said Erie Railway guaranteed the payment of the
interest on the $5,000,000 of Berdell bonds, and sold and disposed of the same in buying certain property for said Erie
Railway at ninety cents on the dollar for said bonds; and that
this whole transaction was made for th benefit of said Erie
Railway, in accordance with a contract made between the officers of the two roads, the said officers that made and concluded
said transactions and contract being substantially one and the
same persons."
The substance of these allegations is, that the persons who
acted in the interest of the Erie Railway Company intended, by
means of the mortgage, to raise money which should be Iliverted
to the use of that company. But it is not alleged that .the
price of 80 per cent. was not the full value of the $5,000,000
of bonds; and the guarantee by the Erie Railway Company
of the payment of the interest on those bonds, may very well
have enhanced their value by 10 per cent. The diversion of
the proceeds of the 80 per cent. by the officers of the Boston,
Hartford and Erie Company, to pay for losses by them in speculations in stocks, is something which, as regards that company,
and its rights, which alone the appellants are seeking to enforce,
cannot affect the rights of the ultimate purchasers of the
$5,000,000 of bonds, represented now by the New York and
New England Company.
Of the $20,000,000 of bonds, the $7,40-,650 used in retiring
underlying mortgage bonds, and the $275,350 used in completing or equipping the road, being, in all, $7,680,000, were clearly
valid. As to the $2,500,000 of bonds, which were, by the terms
of the mortgage, to be applied to the retirement of underlying
liens, and were apparently issued to the State of Mfassachusetts
in exchange for a loan of its scrip, that State, taking the bonds

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

with notice of the diversion, might have been liable, as a constructive trustee, to the holders of such underlying liens, for
the proper application of the bonds, but certainly owned-them
as against all the world but such cestuis que trust; and it would
seem that the proceeds of the bonds were used in completing
and equipping.the road. As to the $1,819,000 alleged to have
been stolen by Eldridge, there is nothing to show that they had
not come to be held by bonajfle holders.
Some of the bonds being valid, the mortgage was valid as to
them, though there may have been some invalid bonds. In
the Ellis foreclosure suit, the fact that some of the bonds may
have been invalid, was of no importance unless and until the
mortgagor offered to redeem, the valid bonds. The holders of
the invalid bonds could not share in the benefits of -the foreclosure, and the holders of the valid bonds would see that that
rule was observed in the foreclosure suit. The agreement of
facts on which the Ellis suit was heard states that all of the
20,000 bonds but one were issued, and that the same were, at
that time, "wholly or in great part owned by bonafide holders
thereof."
It is contended by the appellants, that they were not parties
to the Ellis foreclosure suit; that it was a collusive suit, without any real controversy; that it is still pending; and that the
proceedings and decree in it are not binding on the appellants.
There are provisions in the JBerdell mortgage, that, in case
of default by the compafy in the payment of either principal or interest -of the bonds, the, company shall deliver possession of the mortgaged premises to the trustees; that, on
taking possession, the trustees shall file in the offico of the
Secretaries of State of the States of Massachusetts, Rhode
Island, Connecticut, and New York, a written notic .that they
have taken possession of the mortgaged property, franchises,
and estate, for default in the payment of principal or interest,
or both, as the same may be, and of their purpose to foreclose
the mortgage for the default; that, if the default shall continue
for eighteen months after such notice shall be filed, the whole
of the mortgaged premises and franchises shall vest absolutely
and in fee in the trustees, and all the right or equity of redemp-

GRAHAM v. BOSTON, HARTFORD & ERIE R.R. CO.

175

Opinion of the Court.
tion of the company therein shall be forever barred and foreclosed; that, in case of an absolute foreclosure, it shall be the
duty of the trustees to call a meeting of the bondholders, by
an advertisement of the time and place and object thereof, in
newspapers published in Boston, Providence, Hartford, New
York City, and London, at which meeting the bondholders
may organize themselves into a corporation, with a corporate
name to be selected by them, and a capital stock equal to such
outstanding mortgage debt, which new corporation shall have
all the powers, privileges, and franchises, and be subject to all
the duties, liabilities, and restrictions of the old company, and
shall consist of the holders of the mortgage bonds, at a; prescribed rate; and that the trustees shall convey to the new
corporation all the mottgaged property and franchises. The
mortgage also contains provisions for the filling of vacancies
in case of the death, resignation, or removal of any of the trustees, and for the vesting of all the mortgaged property in the
persons so appointed.
The following facts appear from the bill in this suit, aid
from a copy of proceedings in the Ellis suit, made a part of it:
On the 15th of July, 1870, George Ellis and others filed their
bill of complaint in the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, sitting in equity, in behalf of themselves and all other
holders of the mortgage bonds, representing that they were
the owners of forty-seven of the bonds, and of the interest
warrants thereon which had matured on the first days of January and July of that year and were unpaid, and praying for
the appointment of a receiver and for the foreclosure of the
mortgage. On the 2d of August, 1870, an order was entered
in the cause appointing receivers and directing them to take
possession of the road afid property. ' On the 9th of May, 1871,
a decree was entered in the cause, in which, after reciting that
the court, on the 24th of April, 1871, had decided and decreed
that Moses Kimball, Thomas Talbot, and Avery Plumer were,
in law, the present trustees under the mortgage, it was adjudged and decreed by the court, that the receivers deliver
into the possession and control of these trustees, or their successors in office, all the roads, railways, property, and fran-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1885.
Opinion of the Court

chises which they had in their hands and possession, or under
their management and control, as such receivers; that the
trustees, or their successors in office, upon taking possession of
the property, should file in the office of the Secretaries of State
of the four States -the notice authorized by the mortgage; and
that, if default in the performance of the condition of the mortgage should continue for the space of eighteen months after
the filing of such notice, the mortgaged premises and franchises should vest absolutely and in fee in the trustees and
their successors, and all right or equity of redemption of the
company therein should be forever barred and foreclosed. By
a decree entered July 28, 1871, William T. Hart, George T.
Oliphant, and Charles P. Clark were declared by the court to
be, by valid succession and appointment, trustees in place of
Ximball, Talbot, and Plumer, who had'resigned, and their successors in the trusts. Under these decrees the trustees entered
into possession of the mortgaged property, and on the 16th of
September, 1871, filed in the offices of the Secretaries of State
of the four States the notices of foreclosure, and, the default
still continuing, maintained their possession for a period of
more than eighteen months thereafter. On the 18th of March,
1873, they called a meeting of the bondholders, as authorized
in the mortgage, for the purpose of organizing themselves into
a corporation. At this meeting, held in Boston, on the 17th
of April, 1873, a corporation was formed, under the name of
the New York and New England Railroad Company. By the
before-mentioned acts of the legislatures of the several States,
the proceedings of the meeting were ratified and confirmed;
and the new corporation has since been in possession of the
road and franchises, under a conveyance from the trustees, so
authorized. The bill contains an averment that the Ellis suit
has never proceeded to a final determination and decree, and
is still pending in court.
There is, in the bill, an alternative prayer, that, if the court
shall not decree the mortgage to be invalid, it will establish
and confirm the trusts under it, and remove the persons now
administering the trusts, and appoint new trustees to take possession of the mortgaged property, and hold it, under the direc-

GRAHAM v. BOSTON, HARTFORD & ERIE R.R. CO.

177

Opinion of tho Court.

tion of the court, for the benefit of the creditors and stockholders; and that an account be taken of the earnings of the
road.
On the foregoing statement of the case the Circuit Court
said, in its decision: "The case thus presented shows that
prior to the filing of this bill, under a decree of a court of
equity having jurisdiction of the parties and of the subjectmatter, the mortgage had been completely foreclosed. To
avoid the effect of the foreclosure, the bill charges that the
Ellis suit was the result of a fraudulent conspiracy on the part
of Ellis, the plaintiff, Lane, the president of the company, who
represented it in its defence, and the receivers and trustees appointed by the court, entered into for the purpose of embarrassing the company and depriving it of its road and property;
and that this fraud was perpetrated by submitting to the court
false statements of facts for its decision, and thus obtaining a
decree against the company. The bill does not allege in what
particulars the statements of fact were false; nor does it
allege that there was not a breach of the condition of the
mortgage, nor that the plaintiffs were not the actual holders
of the bonds and unpaid interest warrants, nor that any part
of the interest which has accrued since 1869 has ever been
paid; nor is there any offer or suggestion for redeeming the
mortgage. There is no allegation that the new crporation, or
any considerable number of the bondholders, had any knowledge of the alleged fraud. The obvious inquiry arises, at this
stage of the case, why the plaintiff has not brought to the attention of the State Court the fraud alleged to have been practiced upon it, and there sought to have the foreclosure decree
revoked." "In Nougwd v. Clapp, 101 U. S. 551, it was held
that a Circuit Court of the United States cannot revise or set
aside a final decree rendered by a State Court, which had complete jurisdiction of the parties and subject-matter, upon the
ground that the decree was obtained by fraud, where the injured party has had an opportunity to apply to the State Court
to reverse the decree. The plaintiff isa party to the foreclosure suit, as a shareholder in the old corporation. The State
Court is still open to listen to the complaint of the corporation
VOL. cxvM-12

OCTOBER TERM, -1585.
Opinion of the Court.

and its shareholders. The decree of foreclosure, though final
in one sense, as determining the respective rights of the parties
to the property in question, is still in its nature interlocutory,
and is open to review by the court, upon petition or motion in
the cause, or by. bill of review for good cause shown. Story
Eq. Pl., § 421, and note; Evans v. Bacon, 99 Mass. 213; Mass.
P. S., ch. 151, § 12. The plaintiff has, therefore, an ample and
complete remedy, for all his alleged grievances, in the State
Court, and there is no occasion for his application to this court
for relief by bill in equity. The decree of foreclosure, therefore, now in full force and unrevoked, is a bar to this suit."
These views, so well expressed, are conclusive of this branch of
the case, and require nothing more to be said.
The mortgage being a valid mortgage, even if some of the
bonds issued under it were invalid, and the right of redemption
having passed to the assignees in bankruptcy, and been released by them to the New York and New England Company, and a demurrer having pointed that out, the bill was
amended so as to allege that the bankruptcy proceedings were
Void for fra~ud. It is claimed that those proceedings were a
part of the conspiracy of Ellis and Lane and others, to which
Adams, the petitioning creditor in bankruptcy, became a party,
to wreck the road; and that the petitioning creditor's debt
was insufficient to give the bankruptcy court jurisdiction.
The Circtiit Court, as to these matters, correctlyheld these
propositions: An adjudication of bankruptcy, made by a District Court having jurisdiction of the bankrupt, cannot be
impeached collaterally by any person who was a party to the
bankruptcy proceedings. Until" vacated in the manner prescribed by the bankruptcy act, it is binding upon all the parties
to it. The District Court is always open for a re-examination
of its decrees in an appropriate form. Any order made in the
case may be set aside and vacated on proper showing made,
due regard being had to rights which have become vested
umler, it and will be disturbed by its revocation. The only
remedy provided for the correction of errors made by the District Court is to be found in the supervisory jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court, under the statute, which is exclusive, and not

GRAHAM[ v. BOSTON, HARTFORD & ERIE R.R. CO.

179

Opinion of the Court.
reviewable in this court. In Lamp Ckimney Co. v. Brass &
Copper Co., 91 U. S. 656, it was held, that a decree adjudging
a crporation bankrupt is in the nature of a decree in rem., as
respects the eaWua of the corporation; and that, if the court
rendering it has jurisdiction, it can only be assailed by a direct
proceeding in a competent court, unless it appears that the
decree is void in form, or that due notice of the petition was
never given. No such defect appears in these- proceedings.
The District Court had jurisdiction to make the decree, and it
has never been vacated. The plaintiff, and all the shareholders
whom he represents, form an integral part of the corporation,
and as such were parties to the bankruptcy proceedings. He
is, therefore, bound by the decree, and cannot impeach it collaterally in this suit.
On the subject of laches, the Circuit Court said: "This bill
was filed fourteen years after the making of the mortgage, ten
years after the commencement of the bankruptcy proceedings,
nine years after the entry of the foreclosure decree in the Ellis
suit, and seven years after the foreclosure became absclutb and
the road was conveyed to the new corporation by the trusteos.
During all this time the records of the courts upon which appear all the proceedings by which the alleged fraud is claimed
to have been consummated have been open to inspection and
examination, and what has been done under them might have
been known to the plaintiff, if he had seen fit to make inquiry.
In the meantime, it is apparent that many persons must have
acquired rights in the stock of the new corporation, who we're
ignorant of the alleged frauds. Under such circumstances, to
set aside this mortgage, to disregard the decree of foreclosure'
and the adjudication in bankruptcy, and to take the road out
of the bands of the bondholders, who have received no interest
on their bonds since 1869, and to place it in the hands of receivers for the benefit of the shareholders in the old corporation, is a proposition so wild and preposterous as hardly to
merit serious eqnsideration." We concur fully in these -iews.
The grounds for dismissing the bill being adequate, we do
not deem it necessary to say anything as to the frame of the
bill, within the settled rules of equity jurisprudence, in a case

