MULLAN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of Facts.

ent record discloses, was not attempted. The affirmative of this
issue was on the petitioning defendant. That corporation was
the moving party, and was bound to make out its case.
The order remanding the cause is
A~fflrm .

MULLAN & Another v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRoUIT COURT OF THE UNUTED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Argued April 1, 1886.-Decided May 10, 1886.

When the authority of the Attorney-General of the United States to commence proceedings to vacate a patent for public lands does not appear on
the face of the bill, it may be shown in this court if the bill is objected to
here for want of it.
Coal lands are mineral lands within the meaning of that term as used in the
statutes regulating the disposition of the public domain.
As coal lands were excepted from the grants to California of Sections 1B and
86 in § 6 of the act of March 3, 1853, 10 Stat. 244, 246, the State could not
under the provisions contained in § 7 of that act, Tb. 247, select coal lands
in lieu of such Sections 16 and 37 as might be occupied before suryey, or
reserved for public uses, or taken by private claims.
The United States can maintain a suit in'equity in its own name to vacate tile
selection and listing of coal lands to the State of California by the properauthority of the government under the act of March 3, 1853, 10 Stat. 244'
and, upon its appearing that the lands so listed were coal lands and were
knowln to be such at the time of the listing and selection by the State
officers and by those for whose benefit the listing was made, a decree should
be entered vacating the title of the State and of those claiming under it.

This was a bill in equity to annul and set aside a listing of
coal lands to the State of California, and patents of the same
granted by the State. The case is stated in the opinion of the
court.
Xdr. As&iaqant .Atto'rrey General 3Jfaulry on behalf of the
Gnited States stated that this suit, although prosecuted in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

name of the United States, was prosecuted by private parties
and at private-cost. Mr. _Maury filed a brief on behalf of appellee; and also showed to the court the authofity of the Attorney General for the commencement of the proceedings.
.- r. Walter E Smi h for appellants.
.Xr. IF. W. .Aorrow for appellee.
mHEF JUSTiCE WATrr delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a suit brought by the United States to vacate and
annul the title of John Mullan and Francis Avery to the lN.f,
see. 8 T. I N., R. 1 E., Mount Diablo meridian, listed by the
Secretary of the Interior on the 3d of January, 1871, to the
State of Califbrnia as a school indemnity selection, on the
ground that when the selection was made and when it was
listed the land was coal land, and so known to be, both by the
officers of the State who made the selection, and by Mullan
and Avery when they afterwards acquired title from the State.
The facts are these:
The land in question lay in the midst of a coal-bearing dis.trict, and had upon it a valuable coal bed. It was rugged and
broken, and of very little if any value for agricultural purposes.
As early as 1861 the Black Diamond Coal Mining. Company
took possession of it and opened a coal mine. The company
erected at great expense, upon this and adjoining land, all the
necessary works for mining, hoisting, and shipping the coal,
and continued its operations on the property extensively from
the time it entered into possession until evicted in 1877, at the
suit of Avery. Its possession was open and notorious, and the
principal market for its coal was in San Francisco, or with persons trading there. There was also located on this and adjoining property quite a large mining town, which sometimes
had more than one thousand inhabitants. The lands in the
township were surveyed and divided into sections in March,
186-, under the direction of the United States surveyor-general.
In the progress of these surveys the mines were found, and to
some extent indicated on the plats, which contained abundant
evidence of the coal-bearing character of this particular tract.

MR.

MU-LLAN v. UNITED STATES..
Opinion of the Court..

On the 13th of May, 1865, Frank Barnard, an officer or agent
of the Black Diamond Coal Mining Company, applied to the
locating agent of the State of California, under the provisions
of a statute of the State entitled "An act to provide for the
sale of certain lands belonging to the State," approved April
27, 1863, to purchase these lands and to have them located
under the authority of an act of Congress of March 3, 1853,
ch. 145, § Z, 10 Stat. 241, in lieu of an equal quantity of school
lands which had in some way been lost to the State. In accordance with this application the location was made for the
use of Barnard on the 30th of June, 1865, and approved by
the State surveyor-general on the 11th of August. Barnard,
however, did not pay for the land, and consequently his title
under the location was never perfected.
On the 23d of August, 1868, while the Black Diamond Company was in possession and actually working Its mine, Mullan
applied to the surveyor-general -of California to purchase the
land from the State, as land which had before been selected as
school section indemnity. The surveyor-general at first objected because the land was coal land. After some conversation on the subject, in which Mullan was told that the lands
were in 'the neighborhood of the Mount Diablo coal mine and
were probably coal lands, his application for the purchase was
accepted, he insisting that the lands were State lands, and that
the register of the land office had acknowledged the right of
the State to make the selection. This acceptance was on the.
25th of August, 1868, and afterwards, on the 27th of April,
1869, the surveyor-general made a formal certificate, of which,
the following is a copy:
"STATE

OF CALIFORNIA,

"OFFICE OF SURVEYOR-GENERAL,

" SAoM& ENTO,

27th A2ril 1869.

"I hereby certify that, in accordance with the provisions of
an act entitled 'An act to provide for the management andsale of the lands belonging to the State,' approved March 28th,
1868, I have located, as a portion of the school lands, 320 acres
of public land in the county of Contra Costa, at the request
VOL. cxVwII-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

and for the use of John Mullan. Said land is described as
follows:
"N. I of see. 8, T. 1 N., R. 1 E., Mount Diablo meridian.
"Taken in lieu of E. I of sec. 16, T. 2 N., R. 8 W., Mount
Diablo meridian.
"This location has been made by me in the name and for
the benefit of the State of California, at the U. S. land office
for the San Francisco district, in the city of San Francisco,
and -with the consent of John F. Swift, register of said district,
bearing date the 28th day of May, A.D. 1865, and the same is
entered and numbered upon my register of locations. The
said location is hereby approved, and the treasurer of Contra
Costa county shall receive in payment therefor, from John
Mullan, one hundred and one N (101.65) dollars, within fifty
days from the date of the surveyor-general's approval, being
twenty per cent. of the purchase money, and interest on the
balance in advance, at the rate of ten per cent. per annum from
the date of the approval of the location in the surveyorgeneral's office.
"Joirz.W. BosT, Surveyor-Genera."
Afterwards, on the 21st of May, Mullan having made the
advance payment, a certificate of purchase was executed and
delivered to him.
The selection was at some time reported to the General
Land Office, and on the 3d of January, 1871, listed, with other
tracts, by the Secretary of the Interior to the State, "subject
to any interfering rights that may exist in them."
On the 28th of March, 181, Mullan got from Avery $1000
and assigned the certificate of purchase to him as collateral
security, at the same time agreeing that oh the sale of the
land Avery might retain one-sixth of the purchase money, and
also the $1000 and interest. At the same time he also executed to Avery a formal assignment of all and every his right
or cause .of action against the Black Diamond Coal Company
for taking coal from the premises. Afterwards Avery paid
the State the balance due on the purcha money and received
a State patent for the land on the 5th of April, 1871. Mullan

MULLAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

had resided in San Francisco for at least a year before he made
his application for the purchase, and was engaged in real estate
business. Avery had also resided there from December 3,
1868, and from his testimony appears to have been familiar
with operations of the character of those in which Alullan was
engaged.
Not long after Avery got his patent he brought suit against
the Black Diamond Company to recover possession of the
property and $1,350,000 for the value of coal taken from it.
This suit resulted in a judgment in his favor, on the 6th of
June, 1877, for the land and $1500 damages. He then
brought another suit to recover the value of coal taken from
the land during the pendency of the former one, in which he
claimed damages to the amount of $3,000,000.
After the first suit was begun: the coal company applied to
the General :Land Office for a recall of the listing of the land
to the State, but on an examination of the matter this was
refused on the 14th of March, 1872. After the second suit was
brought, the Attorney-General, on the application of the company,'authorized a bill to be filed in the name of the United
States to set aside the title of the State, "upon the understanding that any and all costs and expenses in the matter shall be
defrayed by the applicants, and that the proceeding shall be
subject to the direction and control of the Attorney-General,
in order that the interests of the government may be fully
protected and justice done to any and all parties interested."
Under this authority the present bill was filed by the United
States attorney for the District of California, and signed:
"CanLEs DEvENs, Attomey-GeneraL.
By IPILIP TEAnE,
United States Attorney for the Ditrict of Cal orn;a.
"HOYT & M'K.,

Special Attorneys and Counsel."
Upon these facts the Circuit Court entered a decree vacating
the title of the State and of Mullan and Avery, and from that
decree this appeal was taken.
It is first objected that the bill should be dismissed, because

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

.it does not show on its face that it was filed by the AttorneyGeneral. On the argument, howevei, the Assistant AttorneyGeneral produced from the Department of Justice a certified
copy of an order of the Attorney-General directing the United
States attorney for the District of California to proceed in the
matter, and this it was held in l1estern Paaij4Railroad Co. v.
United Statev, 108 U. S. 512, was enough to overcome such an
objection. There is no doubt that the bill was filed on the request of the coal company, and that it is expected some advantage will accrue indirectly to that company from a decree
vacating the title under the State selection; but, if the title is
vacated the lands will be restored to the public domain, and be
subject to sale by the United States as coal lands. The United
States have, therefore, a direct pecuniary interest in the suit,
and this being the case, it is a matter of no importance that
others may possibly be benefited by the decree which may be
6btained. The acts of July 1, 1864, 13 Stat. 343, ch. 205, and
MYarch 3, 1865, 13 Stat. 529, ch. 107, *makeample provisions for
the sale of such lands at a price not less than twenty dollars
an acre.
The important question in the case is whether the land, being
coal land, was open to selection by the State as lieu school land.
This was most elaborately considered by the circuit judge, and
his opinion, reported in United States v. Afullan, 7 Sawyer, 466,
leaves little to be said on the subject. In Afining Co. v. Con*8oldated .Xining Co., 102 U. S. 167, this court decided that
"the grant of the sixteenth and thirty-sixth sections of public
land to the State of California for school purposes, made by the
act of March 3, 1853, was not intendedto cover mineral lands.
Such lands were by the settled policy of the general government excluded from all grants" at that time, and we quite
agree with the circuit judge that "if sections 16 and 36, being
mineral lands, do not pass by the terms of the statute, there
certainly is no good reason for permitting the same kind of
lands to be selected under § 7, in lieu of sections 16 and 36."
The confirmatory act of July 23, 1866, 14 Stat. 218, ch. 219,
expressly excludes from its operation all selections of mineral
land. The case, therefore, turns on the question whether coal

M-ULLAN v. UNITED STATES.

1.277

Opinion of the Court.

lands are mineral lands within the meaning of that term as
used in the statutes regulating the disposition of the public
domain.
The first statute which made any referonce to minerals on
the public lands was that of September 4, 1841, 5 Stat. 453,
455, ch. 16, § 10, which provided that no pre-emption entry
should be made on "lands on which are situated any known
salines or mines;" and by the act of July 1, 1864,13 Stat. 343,
ch. 205, § 1, it was provided that "any tracts embracing coal
beds or coal fields, constituting portions of the public domain,
and which as 'mines' are excluded from the pre-emption act
of 1841, and which under past legislaticn are not liable to ordinary private entry," might be disposed of at a price not less
than twenty dollars an acre. This is clearly a legislative declaration that "known" coal lands were mineral lands within
the meaning of that term as used in statutes regulating tle
public lands, unless a contrary intention of Congress was clearly
manifested. Whatever doubt there may be as to the effect of
this declaration on past transactions, it is clear that after it was
made, coal lands were to be treated as mineral lands. That
the land now in dispute was "known" coal land at the time it
was selected no one can doubt. It had been worked as a mine
for many years before, and it had upon its surface all the appliances necessary for reaching, taking out, and delivering the
coal. That Barnard knew what'it was when he asked for its
location for his use is absolutely certain, because he was one of
the agents of the coal company at the time, and undoubtedly
acted on its behalf in all that he did. If IMullan ind Avery
were ignorant of the fact when they acquired their respective
interests in the property, it was because they wilfully shut their,
eyes to What was going on around them, and purposely kept
themselves in ignorance of notorious facts. But the evidence
satisfies us entirely that they were not ignorant. The assignment of Mullan to Avery of his claim against the company for
coal taken out, made at the same time that he transferred the
certificate of purchase, shows the knowledge of all the facts by
both when Avery acquired his interest, and Mullau's information on the subject is shown by what took place betweer him

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

and the surveyor-general of California when he made his purchase.
At the time. the selection was actually made, therefore, it
cannot be doubted that the land was mineral land, both in law
and in fact, within the meaning of the act under which the
State and those who purchased from the State undertook to
acquire title, and we agree with the Circuit Court in opinion
-that the rights of the parties are to be determined by the law
as it stood then. Such being the case, we have no hesitation
in deciding that the land was not open to the State for selection.
It remains to consider whether, since the land was in fact
listed to the State by the proper officers of the government, the
selection can be vacated and the titles under it annulled in a
suit in equity brought by the United States directly for that
parpose; and about this we have no more doubt than the Circuit Court seems to have had. The lands were, as we have
seen, known coal lands. No one seriously disputes that now;
and, in our opinion, upon the well-established facts, fullan
and A-very occupy no better position than the State would if
no patent had been issued to Avery. They are in every sense
of that term purchasers with notice. The case is, therefore,
directly within the decisions of this court in XcLaughlin v.
United States, 107 U. S. 526, and Western Paciflo Railroad Co.
v. United States, 108 U. S. 510, where it was distinctly held
that patents to the Western Pacific Railroad Company for
known mineral lands could be cancelled on a bill in equity filed
by the United States for that purpose. It is no doubt true
that the actual character of the lands was as well known at
the Department of the Interior as it was anywhere else, and
that the Secretary approved the lists, not because he was mistaken about the facts, but because he was of opinion that coal
lands were not mineral lands within the meaning of the act
of 1853, and that they were open to selection by the State;
but this does not alter the case. The list was certified without
authority of law, and, therefore, by a mistake against which
relief in equity may be afforded. As was said in United States
v. Stone, e Wall. 525, 535: "The patent is but evidence of a

