OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

not think they invalidate the ground on which the decision of
this court at the last term rested.
It was said in that opinion that there was no decisive or conclusive expression of opinion on that subject by the Supreme
Court of Indiana, and that this court was therefore compelled
to exercise its own judgment and "to follow it in deciding the
case. We are not able to see in the cases cited for the first time
in this petition anything which modifies this proposition.
The same may be said of the statutes specially relied on in the
petition.. There is, in our opinion, no authority found in them
for the lease. by the defendant company of the entire road,
property, franchise, powers, and control of the plaintiff's road
for ninety nine years.
The judgment of the plaintiff against the Indianapolis and
St. Louis Company remains unaffected by the decision of this
court, because there was no appeal by the latter company, and
we see no reason to change our views on the other questions
involved in the case.
Thee 2eition is, therefore, oveirruled.

DELANO v. BUTLER, Receiver.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF AMASSACHUSETTS.

SAME v. SAME.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF M&SSACHUSETTS.
Argued October 12, 13, 1886.-Decided November 1, 1886.

In September, 1881, A held thirty shares of stock in a national bank whose
capital was $500,000, with a right to increase it to $1.000,000. In that
month the directors voted to increase the capital to $1,000,000, the persons
then holding stock to have the right to take new stock at par, in equal

DELANO v. BUTLER.
Statement of Facts.
amounts to that then held by them. A then subscribed for thirty additional shares, paid for it three days later, and subsequently took out a
certificate of stock for it. The amount of increased capital subscribed and
paid for was $461,300, instead of $500,000, but A had no knowledge of this
deficiency until after the pay ment of said subscription, and of the assessment hereinafter referred to. On the 18th November, 1881, the bank
became insolvent, and an examiner was placed in charge of it by the Comptroller of the Currency. In December, 1881, the directors cancelled the
increase of stock above said sum of $461,300, and requested the Comptroller
to issue a certificate for the increase as so reduced, which he did. No vote
of the stockholders was taken either on the increase or decrease. The Comptroller then, under § 5205 Rev. Stat., called upon the bank for an assessment of 100 per centum on the holders of stock, to pay the deficiency in the
capital stock. In January, 1882, the annual meeting. of the stockholders
was held, at which it was voted to levy the assessment so called for, whereupon the Comptroller permitted the directors to resume control of the bank.
A, being notified of this assessment, paid the amount assessed upon his
sixty shares, upon being assured by one of the directors of the bank that
there would be no other assessment. On the twentieth day of the following May the bank ceased to do business, and the directors thereupon voted
to go iito liquidation. The Comptroller then appointed a receiver of the
bank. In November, 1882, the Comptroller, under Rev. Stat. § 5151, made
an assessment on the shareholders of 100 per cent. of the stock held by
them respectively. A declining to pay, the receiver brought an action at
law against him to recover that amount on the sixty sharcs standing in his
name. A thereupon filed a bill in equity to restrain the prosecution of the
action. JAd:
(1.) That the increase of the capital stock of the company to $961,300 was
valid. '
(2.) That this increase was binding on A to the extent to which he paid
for and received certificates of increased stock.
(3.) That the payments made in January, 1882, could not be applied, either
at law or in equity, to the discharge of the assessments made by the
Comptroller in the final liquidation of the bank.
(4.) That the payment was noV made by A iinder a mistake against which
equity can relieve him.

The following is the case, as stated by the court.
The first of these cases was an action at law brought in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Massachusetts, by Linus M. Price, as Receiver of the Pacific
National Bank of Boston, for whom Peter Butler has been
substituted, against John P. Delano, a citizen of Bath, Maine,
to enforce the personal liability of the defendant, under Rev.

OCTOBER- TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

Stat. § 5151, upon an assessment of 100 per centum of the par
value of sixty shares of the capital stock of the Pacific
National Bank, alleged to be held and owned by said Delano
at the time of the insolvency and suspension of said bank.
The Pacific National Bank was duly organized and authorized to do business as a national bank, under the provisions
embraced in Title 62 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States,-and located in Boston, in October, 1877. Its capital
stock was fixed at $500,000, paid in cash, with a right to in-.
crease it to $1,000,000. It contit.ued business on this basis
until September 13, 1881, when, as appears by the records of a
meeting of the directors held in Boston, it was".Voted, That the capital of this bank be increased to one
million dollars, and that stockholders of this date have the
right to take the new stock at par in equal amounts to that
now held by them."
On the same date, a copy of the following notice was sent
by the cashi~r to each stockholder of the bank:
"A. I. Benyon, President.
PACIFIc

NATIONL

BN,
N

J. M. Pettingill, Cashier.
105

DEVONSHIRE STimrEET,

BOSTON, Sept. 13, 1881.
"At a meeting of the directors of this bank, held this (lay,
it was"'Voted, That the capital of this bank be increased to one
million dollars, and that stockholders of this date have the
right to take the new stock at par in equal amounts to that
now held by them.'
"Subscription to the new stock will be payable October 1st.
Parties desiring to anticipate payment wiff be allowed interest
to that date at four per cent. per annum.
"J. M. PETTINGILL, Cashier."

The whole amount of the increase of capital voted was not
taken and paid in, nor was notice ever transmitted to the
Comptroller of the Currency that all of such increase had been
paid in; nor was that official's certificate of the increase to

DELANO v. BUTLER.
Statement of Facts.

$1,000,000, with his approval thereof, ever issued. But $461,300
of the proposed increase of $500,000 was actually subscribed
for and paid in as capital stock prior to November 18, 1881,
and was used in the general business of the bank.
On November 18, 1881, the bank became insolvent, suspended payment, and closed its doors. On the same day,
Daniel Needham, an examiner of national banks, was placed
by the Comptroller of the Currency in charge of the assets of
the bank, for the purpose of ascertaining its condition, where
he remained until March 18, 1882.
The directors of the bank met on December 13, 1881, during
the period of suspension, and passed a vote that, as $38,700 of
the increase of capital voted on September 13, 1881, had not
been taken and paid in, that amount be cancelled and deducted
from the capital stock of $1,000,000, and the paid-up capital'
stock fixed at $961,300; and that the Comptroller of the Currency be notified of the increase of $461,300, which had been
paid in, and requested to issue a certificate of such increase
according to law.
Thereupon the Comptroller of the Currency, under date of
December 16, 1881, made and issued the following certificate:
"TREASURY

";O

DEPARTMENT,

FfdE -OF COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY,

WASHINGTON,

.Dec. 16, 1881.

"Whereas satisfactory notice has been transmitted to th3
Comptroller of the Currency that thd capital stock of ' The
Pacific National Bank of Boston, Mass.,' has been increased in
the sum of four hundred and sixtv-one thousand three hundred
dollars, in accordance with the provisions of its articles of association, and that the whole amount of such increase has been
paid in:
"Now, it is hereby certified that the capital stock of ' The
Pacific National Bank of Boston, Mass.,' aforesaid, has been
increased as aforesaid, in the sum of four hundred and sixtyone thousand three hundred dollars; that said increase of
capital has been paid into said bank as a part of the capital

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

stock thereof, and that the said increase of capital is approved
by the Comptroller of the Currency.
"In witness whereof I hereunto affix my official signature.
[SEAL.]

"Joii

J. KNox, Comptroller."

No vote of the stockholders was taken relating to the increase or decrease of the capital stock of the bank.
Under date of December 16, 1881, the Comptroller of the
Currency addressed the following letter to the bank:.
WAsm NGTox, December 16, 1881.
"The Pacific National Bank of Boston, Massachusetts:
"The entire capital stock of the Pacific National Bank of
Boston, Massachusetts, amounting to nine hundred and sixtyone thousand three hundred (961,300) dollars, having been lost,
notice is hereby given to said bank, under the provisions of
section 5205 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, to
pay the deficiency in its capital stock by an assessment of one
hundred (100) per cent. upon its sbareholders pro rata for the
amount of capital stock held by each, and that if such deficiency shall not be paid, and said bank shall refuse to go into
liquidation, as provided by law, for three months after this
notice shall have been received by it, a receiver may be appointed to close up the business of the association according to
the provisions of section 5234: of the Revised Statutes of the
United States.
"In testimony whereof I have hereto subscribed my name
and caused my seal of office to be affixed to these presents, at
-the Treasury Department, in the city of Washington and District of Columbia, this sixteenth day of December, A.D. 1881.
[SEAL.]

"JoN JAY KNox,

"Comptroller of the Currency."
On January 10, 1882, during the -suspension of the bank, the
stockholders held their annual meeting (it being the first held
since January 11, 1881), pursuant to the following notice duly
published in the Boston Daily Advertiser:

DELANO v. BUTLER.
Statement of Facts.

"Pacif -YatinalBank.
"The annual meeting of the stockholders of this bank for
choice of directors, and for any other business that may legally
come before them, will be held at their banking rooms, 105
Devonshire Street, on Tuesday, Jan. 10, 1881, at 11 o'clock, A M.
"J. M. PETTINGILL, Caskier."
At this meeting, after discussing the general condition of the
affairs of the bank, the foregoing call of the Comptroller of the
Currency for an assessment of 100 per centumn on the capital
stock of the bank was read. Thereupon the following was
offered:
"Voted, In accordance with the notice of the Comptrollerof the Currency, dated December 16, ISSI, there be, and
hereby is, laid an assessment of one hundred per cent. upon
the shareholders of the Pacific National Bank, of Boston,
Mass., .pro rata for the amount of capital stock of said bank
held by each shareholder.
"Voted, That the board of directors notify each shareholder
of said assessment and collect the same forthwith."
On the question of the adoption of the above, a stock vote
was ordered; the total number of votes cast was 5549, representing 5549 shares, of which 5494 wero in the affirmative, and
55 in the negative.
The amount paid in by the stockholders on this assessment
was $742,800, prior to May 20, 1882.
The following notice to depositors was issued by the bank
on March 16, 1882:
"THFE

PAcIFIC NATIONAL BAmc,

" BosToN, Zifaroh 16, 1882.
"To our Depositors:
" By vote of the directors and the approval of the Comptroller of the Currency the bank will reopen for business on
Saturday, the 18th. Every effort has been made to put the
bank again into a sound and solvent, condition, and the stockholders have been called upon to pay an assessment of 100 per
cent, on their stock, thus making the depositors' balances secure

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

and available. The bank will be run on strict business principles and in the interest of its customers and stockholders, and,
while thanking you for past favors, we solicit your confidence
and support for the future.
"LEwis COLEmAn, Pre i ent.
"E. C. WHrrrY, Cashier."
Pursuant thereto, the directors resumed active control of the
bank and its assets on March 18, 1882, and again conducted a
general banking business until May 20, 1882, when the bank
ceased business, and the directors voted to go into liquidation.
Thereupon Linus M. Price was appointed receiver by the
Comptroller of the Currency, under Rev. Stat. § 5234, and
took charge of the assets and records of the bank.
During the period between March 18, 1882, and May 20,
1882, while the bank was carrying on business in its own name,
the amount due depositors was reduced from $4,101,365.91 on
the former date, to $2,052,95T.82 on the latter; $62,693.40 being due to new depositors. The amount of deposits made
between the dates named was $2,338,617.21. New liabilities
were contracted subsequent to March 18, 1882, amounting to
$200,000, including the $62,693.40 due to new depositors.
The plaintiff in error owned thirty shares of stock in said
bank prior to the vote of September 13, 1881, to increase the
stock to $1,000,000. After that vote he received from the
cashier of the bank a printed copy of the notic&dated September 13, 1S81, at the bottom of which he wrote a subscription
for thirty shares of the increase of stock, and returned it to the
bank. Three days aftel the passage of the vote he paid $3000
for the thirty shares so subscribed, and received a receipt for
$3000 "on account of subscription to new stock," signed by the
cashier of the bank. In October he returned the receipt to
the bank, and received for it certificate No. 780 for thirty shares
of the new stock, dated October 1, 1881.
Plaintiff in error supposed at that time that the whole
$500,000 increase of capital had been taken and paid in, and
believed that the increase to $1,000,000 had been regularly
and legally made. He did not attend the ztockholders' meet-

DELANO v. BUTLER.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error and Appellant.

ing of January 10, 1882, and received no other notice thereof

than seeing th.W call published in the Boston Advertiser. On
January 12th or 13th he received notice of the assessment of
100 per centurn upon the stock of the bank, and, after consultation, was assured by another shareholder and a director of
the bank that if this was paid there could be no further assessment made on his stock; in consequence of which assurances
he paid the assessments of $3000 on January 20th and 13000 on
January 23d, which were endorsed on the certificates under the
dates of payment, being 100 per centum on sixty shares of stock.
Upon the trial the intervention of a jury was waived by consent of parties, and the cause submitted to the court, which
found the foregoing facts, and rendered judgment September
8, 1885, in favor of the receiver, for the amount claimed.
On June 8, 1885, the appellant, Delano, filed a bill in equity
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Massachusetts, against Linus M. Price, Rccei Ter of the Pacific
National Bank, the object and prayer of which were to enjoin
the further prosecution of the pending action at law, brought
by the said receiver against him for the purpose of enforcing
the alleged liability of the appellant on account of the assessment upon his said stock, on the ground that upon the facts as
heretofore stated the voluntary payment made by the appellant of the 100 per centum assessed to restore the lost capital
of $961,300, and which had been applied to the payment of
the creditors of the bank, constituted in equity, if not at law,
a complete defence to the claim of the receiver as an extinguishment of his liability upon the assessment sued on.
This cause was heard upon the facts as heretofore stated,
and a decree rendered dismissing the bill for want of equity,
from which the present appeal was taken and is prosecuted.
Mr. George F. RHoar and _Mr. Benjamin X. .J,)huson, for
plaintiff in error and appellant.
I. The appellant was not a holder of the new stock. He
contracted to take new stock in a bank whose capital shotld
be $1,000,000. This agreement imposed no obligation to take
shares in a smaller capital. There is a clear distinction in the
VOL. CXV-II-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Plaintif in Error and Appellant.

statute between the system provided for the original formation
of a corporation, and that provided for the increase of its capital. Rev. Stat. §§ 5133--5141, 5168-5180, 5412.
The appellant's subscription, payment, taking the certificate,
and the entry upQn the books were mere preparation for or
anticipation of the assuming the character of stockholder, when
the whole amount should be subscribed, and the approval and
certificate of the Comptroller obtained. They conferred no
right and imposed no duty upon appellant, except to become a
stockholder when the increase became valid, and imposed no
-obligation upon the bank except to admit him as a stockholder
when the proceeding was complete. If the Comptroller had
withheld his approval altogether, appellant could not have been
held as a shareholder, for the single purpose of liability to previous debts and for no other purpose whatever. .Anerican
Tube TForks v. Boston Aftachine Co., 139. Mass. 5; Reed v. Bo8ton ijiachine Co., 141 Mass. 454. Acts of stockholders, until the
certificate of the Comptroller, are nothing more than propositions among themselves. Charlestonv. People's Bank, 5 Rich.
(S. C)., 103. See also Scovill v. Thayer, 105 . S.143, where it
is held that in such case an alleged stockholder is not estopped
by receiving certificates, attending corporate meetings, or by
the fact that the corporation had held itself out as having
increased capital, and so obtained increased credit. Upton v.
Tribilco4k, 91 U. S.45 ; Sanger v. Upton, 91 U. S.56; ]ebster
v. Upton, 91 U. S.65; and Pullman v. Upo, 96 U. 5. 328,
deal only with the case of subscriptions obtained by fraud- or
stock which the corporation had a right to issue, but issued
irregularly, or stock de facto in corporations irregularly organized.
The certificate and entry in the stock-book must purport to
be shares in some specific capital. If it were essential to our
argument, we should respectfully ask the court to reconsider
the dictum of Mr. Justice Hunt, in Chubb v. Ztpton, 95 U. S.
665, 668, that "it is not necessary, to sustain the action against
a subscriber, that there should have been a subscription for the
whole amount named in the articles.f' If this be true to any
extent, we. conceive it can be only true in cases where a cor-

DELANO v. BUTLER.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error and Appellant.

poration has begun business lawfully, and might lawfuy have
limited its increase to the amount actually subscribed without
the assent of any other authority, so that the subscriber would
become a shareholder in a going concern, and where the circumstances attending the issue of the certificates immediately show
that to have been the intent of the parties. Seg cases collected
in I Morawetz, Private Corporations, § 142; Rensselaer &
Wrsuhington Plank Road v. Wetsel, 21 Barb. 56.
But tWe present case is as if the subscription paper had itself
contained the express condition that the bank would not admit
the subscriber to the character of stockholder until the whole
amount should be subscribed. Troy & Greenfield Railroadv.
Newtn, 8 Gray, 596; Worcester & Nashua Railroadv. Hinds,
8 Csh. 110; City Hlotel v. Dickinson, 6 Gray, 586; Boston,
Barre & GardnerRailroad v. Wellington, 113 Mass. 79 ; Boston & Albany Railroadv. Pearson,128 Mass. 445. Creditors,
in dealing with corporations, are bound to take notice of the
limitations of their charters, and, a fortiori,of the limitations
of the general law. Scovill v. Thayer, 105 U. S. 143; Pearcev.
.Mfadison & IndianaolisRailroad,21 How. 441 ; I"n Pe County
1ife Assurance Co., L. R., 5 Ch. App. 288. The book produced
by the receiver is not a stock register. It is a mere debit and
credit account with the stockholder. Worcester Xut. Ins. Co.
v. H1astings, 2 Allen, 398.
We come then to the action of the directors of December 13,
1881, and the two certificates of the Comptroller, dated Deceraber 16, 1881. The bank then was wholly insolvent. Its
capital was entirely gone, and its liabilities were more than
three milion dollars in excess of its capital and assets. It failed
to redeem its circulating notes, or to pay debts or depositors
in the course of business. Its doos were closed; its officers
were excluded from all control of its affairs by the order of
the Comptroller. Needham, the bank examiner, although not
styled receiver in the order, was in fact executing the functions
of receiver, and not of visitor or examiner, so far as his' custody
and control of the bank were concerned. Rev. Stat. §§ 5240,
5241. This was a clear case of insolvency, and these were clear
acts of insolvency within the meaning of Rev. Stat. § 5242.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error and Appellant.

They were due and public nbtice to every shareholder and
creditor that the power of the bank to deal in any manner with
its assets, except to preserve them and to redeem bills, was gone.
It could make no binding contract; even a seizure and sale of
its property on an adversary suit would be void. .rational Bank
v. Colby, 21 Wall. 609. The purpose to violate the provisions
of § 5242 would be inferred as matter of law from any payment or transfer of the property under these circumstances,
and notice of such purpose be imputed to both parties. Such
being the ease, the directors had no power to pass the vote fixing the capital at $961,300, and that whether the act be treated
as an attempted reduction of the capital, which could only be
effected by a two thirds vote of the shareholders (§ 5143), or
as a new and original attempt to increase.
Nor had the certificates of the Comptroller, one declaring
that the new stock was all paid in, the other declaring that it
was all gone, and directing an assessment, any validity whatever.
The Comptroller is not a judicial officer. He cannot bind any
citizen by a decree or judgment. It is true, his certificate is
conclusive upon the question whether a bank is duly organized,
and upon the question how much of the stockholders' liability
needs to be enforced. Kennedy v. Gibson. 8 Wall. 498; Bank
v. Iennedy, 17 Wall. 19; Casey v. Galli, 94 U. S. 673; Sanger
v. Urton., 91 U. S. 56. A person who has become a shareholder in a bank so far submits himself to the Comptroller's
authority; and the enforcement of this submission is necessary
for the due protection of the public. But the Comptroller
cannotby his certificate impose upon persons the character of
shareholders without their consent. Nor can it be doubted,
that, if the Comptroller be about to give such certificate
illegally or contrary to the fact, any person who would be
aggrieved thereby may have judicial process to restrain him.
United States v. Knox, 102 U. S. 422. If, then, the act of the
Comptroller be performed under such circumstances that it is
impossible to apply for an injunction in advance, it must be
that the facts may be shown in defence, especially in cases
where no new rights have attached in consequence of reliance
on' his action.

bELANO v. BUTLIFR.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error and Appellant.

II. The liability of all shareholders was equitably discharged
by the payment of the assessment. The case at bar is totally
distinguishable from Scovill v. Thayer, 105 U. S. 141. Here
money paid under a supposed liability went directly to reduce the volume of debts, as is expressly found by the court,
under an assessment made for that sole purpose. The order
by the Comptroller, and the voluntary consent by the supposed shareholder, to pay in 100 per cent. on the supposed
capital, were an order and consent to pay that amount to the
creditors, and actually accomplished that purpose. It was an,
actual performance of one obligation by parties who mistakenly supposed they were performing another. In form, it
was an attempt to make good the capital. In fact,, it was
simply a reduction of the volume of debt. The entire deficiency -was never paid. .Pursuant, therefor6, to the notice of
the Comptroller of December 16, 1881, the receivership therein
stated went on. The shareholders paid in voluntarily a sum
they were not obliged to pay, with intent that it should be applied to increase a fund to discharge-the indebtedness of the
bank. It was so applied, and the creditors collectively and
individually were thereby in better condition than if the
method provided by law had been strictly pursued.
Assuming these facts to be established, we submit that on
well-esta.blished principles of equity such payment will be
treated as a discharge of the statute obligation-either as an
equitable performance of it, or hs an equitable satisfaction, or as
a substituted performance, or as an equitable set-off. It is not
important to consider carefully the distinction between them.
They all rest upon the general principle that equity will not
permit double benefits where but one benefit is intended, or
impose double burdens where but one obligation is due. The
money due from these debtors has reached these creditors,
and the substance of their obligations has 'been fully performed Tubb8 v. Broadwood, 2 Russ. & My]. 487; Leckmere
v. earlh,. 3 P. Wnms. 211; Sowden v. Sowden, 1 Bro. Ch.
582; Wlileoek v. lileoeN, 2 Vernon, 558; Blandy v. Widmore, 1 P. Wms. 324; Deacon v. Smith, 3 Atk. 323; Ex pare
.Pye,18 Ves. 140; Hicheliffe v. Hinclhlife, 3 Yes. 516;

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

Thynne v. Glengall, 2 Ii. L. Cas. 131; Raleigh v. Raleigh, 35
Ill. 512; Tallmadge v. Fshkill ron Co., 4 Barb. 382; Jones
v. Wiltbeyer, 42 Georgia, 5,75; Lee v. Lee, 31 Georgia, 26;
United States v. JKnox, 102 U. S. 422; Bank of Eindutanv.
Alison, L. R., 6 C. P. 54; Marine Bank v. Fulton Bank, 2
Wall. 256; Scammon v. Eimball, 92 U. S. 370; National
Bank v. Insurance Co., 104 U. S. 51; Pattersonv. Lynde, 106
U. S. 519; S7mith v. Hurd, 12 Met. ([ass.) 371.
No offer to ieturn the certificates or notice to rescind the
transaction was necessary. The transaction never took effect.
Nothing ever passed to these alleged stockholders as against
'the corporation. There was nothing to be avoided or rescinded, and the certificates were of no value so as to need to
-be returned. Reed v. Boston 3lTachine Co., 141 Mass. 454;
American Tube Vorks v. Boston .achine Co., 139 Mass. 11.
M'Tr. A. A. 1?anney, for defendant in error and' appellee.
MR. JusTicE MATTHEws, after stating the case as reported
*above, delivered the opinion of the court.
Section 5151 of the Revised Statutes provides that "the
shareholders of every national banking association shall be
held individually responsible, equally and ratably, and not one
for another, for all contracts, debts, and engagements of such
association, to the extent of the amount of their stock therein,
at the par value thereof, in addition to the amount invested in
such shares."
The object of the action at law brought by the receiver of
the Pacific, National Bank of Boston, in which judgment was
rendered against the defendant, the plaintiff in error, was to
enforce his liability under that section of the statute. The
object of the suit in equity, in which Delano was the complainant, was t6 restrain the prosecution of the action at law
on the ground that, if his legal defences failed, he had in equity
performed and extinguished his obligation.
The questions arising upon the records of these cases in various forms, upon the facts already stated, may be reduced to
three, which will be considered and disposed of in their order.

DELANO v. BUTLER.
Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiff in error, in the action at law contends, as
grounds for reversing the judgment against him,
1st. That he was not, at the time of the appointment of the
receiver, or at any time, the holder of sixty shares of the stock
of the Pacific National Bank, but was, in fact and in law, a
holder of only thirty shares thereof. He contends that the
attempt on the part of the directors and the Comptroller of
the Currency, in December, 1881, to fix the capital stock of
the bank at $961,300, was contrary to law and void; that the
alleged thirty shares of new stock on account of which he is
sued never had any legal existence, and that he, by. virtue of
his subscription in September, 1881, for thirty shares in the
then proposed increase of cgpital from $500,000 to $1,000,000,
and by his other acts, never became liable on account of the
debts of the Pacific National Bank beyond his liability as the
holder of thirty shares of valid stock.
2d. That by his contribution in January, 1882, of an amount
equal to the par value of all the stock ever held by him, towards
the fund, which was all 'used in the payment of the debts of
the bank, the bank then being insolvent, he in law discharged
his liability as a stockholder in said bank, and should, there-fore, have judgment in his favor.
3d. As appellant in the suit in equity, Delano alleges, as
ground for reversing the decree dismissing his bill, that the
contribution made by him on January 23, 1882, of an amount
equal to the par value of the 'stock held by him, towards afund
which was actually used in the payment of the debts of the
bank, the bank then being insolvent, constituted in equity a
satisfaction and extinguishment of his liability as a stockholder
for the debts of the bank, if not at law.
It is.further contended by him, as an additional ground for
equitable relief, that by the payment of the $3000 upon the
thirty shares of alleged new stock which he claimed never
had any legal existence, and on which, therefore, he never
incurred any liability, he really contributed towards a fund
actually used for the payment of the debts of the bank an
amount equal to 200 per centum of the stock held by him,.
which payment, if not available in his favor as a satisfaction

-t4s

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

of his statutory liability technically at law, nevertheless must
be regarded in equity as a substantial equivalent, exonerating
him from further liability.
The first question to be .considered is whether there was a
valid increase of the capital stock of the Pacific National
Bank, of which the plaintiff in error bedame the owner of
thirty shares, so as to be charged with liability thereon as a
stockholder. The articles of association of the bank provide
that "the capital may be increased, according to the provisions
of section 5142 of the Revised Statutes, to any sum not exceeding ten hundred thousand dollars."
The 11th section of the by-laws of the bank provides as follows:
"'Whenever an increase of stock shall be determined upon,
it shall be the duty of the board to notify all the stockholders
of the same, and cause a subscription to be opened for such
increase, and each stockholder shall have the privilege of subscribing for such number of shares of new stock, as he may be
entitled to subscribe for, in proportion to his existing stock in
'the bank. If any stockholder should fail to subscribe for the
amount of stock to which he may be entitled within a reasonable time, whicl shall be stated in the notice, the directors may
determine what disposition shall be made of the privilege of
subscribing for the new stock."
Section 5142 of the Revised Statutes is as follows: "Any
association formed under this Title may, by its articles of association, provide for an increase of its capital from time to time,
as may be deemed expedient, subject to the limitations of this
Title. But the maximum of such increase to be provided in
.the articles of association shall be determined by the Comptroller of the Currency; and no increase -of capital shall be
valid until the whole amount of such increase is paid in, and
noticae thereof hs been transmitted to the Comptroller of the
Currency, and his certificate obtained, specifying the amount
of such increase of capital stock, with his approval thereof, and
that it has been duly paid in as part of the capital of such
association."
It is urged on behalf of the plaintiff in error that no inciease

DELANO. v. BUTLER.
Opiniou of the Court.

of the capital stock of the bank was ever proposed by the directors.or assented to by the subscribers, except an increase of the
full sum of $500,000; that no such increase'.as that was ever
fully paid in, as required by the statute, and that no such
increase was approved by the certificate of the- Comptroller of
the Currency; that his agreement of subscription was to take
thirty shares of a new stock out of the whole sum of $500,000;
that that agreement has never been carried into effect, and that
he has never consented to any modification of it, and that, consequently, whatever effect would be attributable to the acts of
the directors or stockholders of the bank, in conjunction with
the Compt.roller of the Currency, they are res inter alio8 actc,
and not binding on him.
On looking at the terms of § 5142 of the Revised Statutes,
it appears that three things must concur to constitute a valid
increase of the capital stock of a national banking association:
1st. That the association, in the mode pointed out in its articles, and not in excess of the maximum provided for by them,
shall assent to an increased amount; 2d, That the whole
amount of the proposed increase shall be paid in as part of
the capital of such association; and 3d, That the Comptroller
of the Currency, by his certificate specifying the amount of
such increase of capital stock, shall approve thereof, and certify
to the fact of its payment.
In the present case the association did,, in fact, finally assent
to an increase of the capital stock, limited to $461,300; that
amount was paid in as capital, and the Comptroller of the Currency by his certificate approved of the increase, and certified to
its payment; so that there seems little room to question the
validity of the proceedings resulting in such increase. All the
requisitions of the statute were complied with. The circumstance that the original proposal was for an increase of $500,000, subsequently reduced to the amount actually paid in,.does
not seem to affect the question, for the amount of the increase
within the maximum was always subject to the discretionary
power of the association itself, exerted in accordance with its
articles of association, and to the approval and confirmation of
the Comptroller of the Currency.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

The question, therefore, seems to be converted into this:
Whether the subscription of the plaintiff in error to a proposed
increase of $500,000, and his payment thereof, can be held to
be a binding agreement to accept thirty shares out of the
reduced amount.
It will be observed that, without waiting to see what the future
action of the association and the Comptroller of the Currency
might be on the question of the ultimate amount of the
increased stock, the plaintiff in error'paid for his shares and
accepted his certificate. This he did, in legal contemplation,
with knowledge of the law which authprized the association
and the Comptroller of the Currency to reduce the amount
of. the proposed increase to a less sum than that fixed in the
original proposal of the directors; and such payment and acceptance of certificates in accordance therewith might amount,
under such circumstances, on his part, to a waiver of the right
to insist that he should not be bound unless the whole amount
of the proposed increase should be subscribed for and paid in.
But without insisting upon that point, or deciding it, we think
that the subsequent conduct of the plaintiff in error amounts to
a ratification, on his part, of the action of the association, and of
the Comptroller of the Currency, in fixing the amount of the
increased stock at the less sum.
After he paid his subscription and received his certificates of
stock, he was called upon, as a stockholder, alleged to be the
owner of sixty shares of the capital, to pay an assessment voluntarily imposed upon themselves by the stockholders at a
regular meeting, at which the transaction of such business was
not only legitimate, but necessary, as a condition on compliance
with which alone the association was to be permitted to resume
and continue its business as a bank. The bank was in a condition
of open and notorious insolvency. It was in the actual control
of an examiner appointed by the Comptroller of the Currency,
so far as lawful, for the express purpose of ascertaining its true
condition, in order to determine the question whether it might
be permi tted, on any conditions, to resume business, or whether
it should be required to go into liquidation, by the appointment
of a receiver to wind up its affairs. These, facts were certainly

DELANO v. BUTLER.
Opinion of the Court.

known to the plaintiff in error, or, at any rate, were so notorious that he cannot be permitted to allege ignorance of them.
A regular meeting of the stockholders was called by public
notice, given -inthe usual form, for the election of directors and
the transaction of any other business that might be brought
before them. At this meeting official communication was made
that, according to the determination of the association and of
the Comptroller of the Currency, the increased and paid-up
capital stock of the bank had been fixed at $961,300, and that
the whole amount of it had been lost; that it was necessary to
replace it by an assessment of one hundred per centum on the
par value of all the shares in order to enable it to resume and
carry on its business, and that otherwise it would be placed in
the hands of a receiver and required to go into liquidation.
Section 5205 of the Revised Statutes provides that: "Every
association which shall have failed to pay up its capital stock,
as required by law, and every association whose capital stock
shall have become impaired by losses or otherwise, shall, within
three months after receiving notice thereof from the Comptroller of the Currency, pay the deficiency in the capital stock
by assessment upon the shareholders po Tata for the amount of
capital stock held by each.

.

.

.

If any such association

shall fail to payr up its capital stock, and shall refuse to go into
liquidation, as provided by law, for three months after receiving notice from the Comptroller, a receiver may be appointed to close up the busilaess of the association according
t&the provisions of section fifty-two hundred and thirty-four."
It was in pursuance of these provisions of the law that notice
was given by the Comptroller of the Currency to the stockholders of the bank, at this, their regular annual meeting, that
they must either assess themselves and pay in the whole amount
of 100 per centum upon their capital stock, fixed at the sum of
$961,300, or, in the alternative, go into liquidation. In pursuance of this notice, in full view of the facts, and with a presumed knowledge of the law, the stockholders, by a vote that
wvas almost unanimous, assented to the first branch of the -alternative, and, as a condition for being permitted to resume
business, voluntarily voted the required assessment. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Cout.

plaintiff in error, it is true, was not present at this meeting,
but he had notice of its proceedings, and in pursuance of its
vote paid the full amount of the assessment imposed upon
him as the holder of sixty shares of the capital stock of the
company.
In our opinion, it is not open to him now to say that he made
this payment in ignorance of the facts, or in ignorance of the
legal right which he now seeks to assert to avoid the obligation. His payment was voluntary; it was made either with
. actual knowledge of the facts, or with such opportunity and
means of knowledge as, by the exercise of common diligence
would have made him acquainted with the facts, and the payment made by him in conjunction with his co-stockholders
was made upon a distinct consideration, whereby the bank
in which he was interested was enabled to undertake anew
its regular and active business. Such a course of action on his
part must be construed to constitute a complete acquiescence
in and ratification of the previous action of the association and
the Comptroller of the Currency, in reference to the increase
of the capital stock; and he cannot be permitted now to deny
that he thereby became, and has continued to be, an owner of
sixty shares of the capital stock of the bank fixed at the increased sum.
This conclusion is not weakened by the suggestion, made in
argument, that these proceedings of the bank took place during
the period when its affairs were under the supervision of the
Complroller of the Currency, acting through the examiner.
Notwithstandifig the suspension of its business while under his
control, the association continued its corporate existence, and
was competent to exercise corporate functions. The increase
of its capital, the vote of the assessment for the purpose of
restoring what had been lost, and the acceptance of the alternative proposed by the Comptroller of the Currency to, avoid
going into liquidation, were all exertions of corporate powers,
which, under the circumstances, the statute expressly contemplated and authorized. It is, therefore, not at all to the point
that its assets and affairs were subject to the supervision of the
bank examiner. Nor is the conclusion affected by the other

DELANO v. BUTLER.

.653

Opinion of the Court.

consideration, also" urged in aigument; that the attempt to
revive the business of the bank by means of the assessment
proved unsuccessful and abortive. The association, through its
directors and st.ockholders, undertook the task, and entered
upon its accomplishment, and in doing so materially changed
its relations to its creditors. The failure to prosecute its business successfully certainly cannot have the operation now
claimed for it, of making illegal all that was done in the prosecution of the experiment. The hazard of failure must be presumed to have been in the contemplation of the stockholders
when they consented to the risk, and the consequences of
failure cannot now be shifted from themselves to their creditors.
The second ground of defence to the action at law is, in our
opinion, equally untenable. The assessment imposed upon the
stockholders by their own vote, for the purpose of restoring
their lost capital, as a consideration for the privilege of continuing business, and to avoid liquidation under § 5205 of the
Revised Statutes, is not the assessment contemplated by § 5151,
by which the shareholders of every national banking association may be compelled to discharge their individual responsibility for the contracts, debts, and engagements of the association. The assessment as made under § 5205 is voluntary,
made by the stockholders themselves, paid into the general
funds of the bank as a further investment in the capital stock,
and disposed of by its officers in the ordinary course of its
business. It may or may not be applied by them to the payment of creditors, and in the ordinary course of business
certainly would not be applied, as in cases of liquidation, to
the payment of creditors ratably; whereas under § 5151 the
individual liability does not arise, except in case of liquidation
and for the purpose of winding up the affairs of the bank.
The assessment under that section is made by authority of the
Comptroller of the Currency, is not voluntary, and can be
applied only to the satisfaction of the creditors equally and
ratably. If the claim in the present case were allowed, it
would follow that in every case payments made by stockholders, for the purpose of restoring the impaired capital,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

would be considered as credits on the ultimate individual
responsibility of shareholders, and the whole efficiency of the
provisions of § 5151 for the protection of the creditors of the
company at the time of liquidation would be destroyed. The
obligations of the shareholders under the two sections are
entirely diverse, and payments made under § 5205 cannot be
applied to the satisfaction of the individual responsibility
secured by § 5151. .Scovill v. Thayer, 105 U. S. 143.
But, it is said, in the third place, as the ground of relief under
the bill in equity, that while this may be the-result of a strict
application of technical law, there remains to the complainant
an equity which entitles him, by some process of substitution,
to apply the payment which he has made under § 5205 to extinguish his liability under § 5151. So far as can be gathered
from the allegations of the bill, the facts found, and the argument of counsel, this equity is supposed to rest upon the facts
that the money paid by the stockholders under the assessment
was in fact applied to the satisfaction of the debts of the bank;
that such application was intended by the appellant when the
assessment was paid; and that he paid it in the belief that it
would exonerate him from further liability as a stockholder,
induced by representations-made to him to that effect by others
interested in the affairs of the bank. Whatever hardship there
may be in the circumstances of the case, we are unable to discover any ground of equitable relief. If the assessment-was
applied by the officers of the bank to the satisfaction of its
debts, there is nothing to show that it was done ratably,
as required by § 5151. The assessment was not paid by the
stockholders for the purpose of effecting a liquidation of the
affairs of the bank, but. was understood to be the price paid for
the privilege of continuing its business, in the hope of saving
their investment. If it was paid under a mistaken supposition
that, in the event of future failure, nothing more could be required of them, there is nothing to show that the shareholders
were led into the mistake by any misrepresentations either of
fact or of law on the part of the creditors for whose benefit the
receiver is now acting. The mistake, if any, is one for which
each shareholder is alone responsible.

