OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

where a stockholder in a corporation seeks to enforce, in equity,
a,right of the corporation. -Muchmight be said as to the defects of this bill, and we only allude to the point, lest it might
be inferred we regard the bill as properly framed, under those
Decree affirmed.
rules.
MR_.JUsTIcE GRAY

took no part in the decision of this case.

GARDNER & Others v. HERZ & Another.
APPEAL FRom THE

ciRcurr

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Arged April 19, 1886.-Decided May 10, 1886.
Claim 2 of reissued letters patent No. 9094, granted to William Gardner,
Oliver L. Gardner and Jane E. Gardner, February 24, 1880, for an improvement in chair-seats, (the original patent, No. 127,045, having been
granted to George Gardner and Gardner & Gardner, as assignees of
George Gardner, as inventor, May. 21, 1872, and having been reissued as
No. 7203, to George Gardner, William Gardner and Jane E. Gardifer, July
4, 1876,) namely, "2. A chair-seat made of laminm of wood glued together,
with the grains in one layer crossing those of the next, concave on the upper surface, convex on the lower surface, and perforated, as a new article
'of manufacture, substantially
I as set forth," does not claim any patentable
invention.
A patent cannot be taken out'for an article, old in purpose and shape and
mode of use, when made for the first time out of an existing material, and
with accompaniments before applied to such an article, merely because the
idea has occurred that it would be a good thing to make the article out of
that particular old material.
The suggestion in the second reissue, that "the seat is adapted to be secured
to any chair-frame, as it is easily cut and fitted to the same," is not found
in the original patent, or in the first reissue, and is new matter, so far as
anything in it can be invoked to confer patentability on the article.
The question as to whether the thing patented amounts to a patentable invention. may be raised by a defendant in a suit for infringement, independently of any statutory permission so to do.
Under the Constitution" and the statute, a thing to be patentable, must not
only be new and useful, but it must amount to an invention or discovery.

GARDNER v. HERZ.
Opinion of the Court.

In equity.
court.

The case is stated in the opinion of the

M1Er. Edward ..

Dickerson for appellants.

.3r.James P. Foster for appellees.
JUSTICE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, by
William Gardner, Oliver L. Gardner and Jane E. Gardner
against Martip Herz and John K. Mayo, for the infringement
of reissued letters patent No. 9094, granted to the plaintiffs,
February 24, 1880, for an improvement in chair-seats, (the
original patent, No. 127,04.5, having been granted to George
Gardner and Gardner & Gardner, as assignees of George Gardner, as inventor, May 21, 1872, and having been reissued as
No. 7203, to George Gardner, William Gardner and Jane E.
Gardner, July 4, 1876). The application for the first reissue
was filed April 8, 1876, and that for the second October 31,
I 179. The drawings annexed to the original patent and each
(if the reissues were substantially the same. Those of the
,cond reissue were as follows:

MI.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

The specification and claim of the original patent were in
these words:
"Figure one is a plan view, partly in section, the section
showing the middle layer of veneer. Fig. 2 is a longitudinal
section, taken on the line x x of Fig. 1. Similar letters of
reference refer to like parts in both of the figures.
"This invention relates to chair-seats; and it consists in constructing a seat out of veneers of wood, with the grain running
across each other and glued together.
"I have shown, in the drawing accompanying this specification, three layers of veneers, they being represented by the letters A B C. The grain of veneer A crosses that of veneer B,
as shown in section in Fig. 1, and the grain of veneer B crosses
that of veneer C; as seen in Fig. 2. Veneers when thus ar-

GARDNER v. HERZ.
Opinion of the Court.

ranged, that is to say, with the grain running'in diverse directions, will make a seat which, for economy and durability, will
be found to be a very useful improvement. The seats may be
left solid, or perforated after some design agreeable to the
fancy of the one having them made. A slightly concave configuration may be given to the seat, as shown in Fig. 2.
"Seats thus made do not cost as much as those that 'are
made of cane, and are better by far in point of durability.
"The veneers rest upon a shoulderf, of a frame, F, which
surrounds them.
"Having thus described my invention, what I claim and desire to secure by letters-patent is-"As a new article of manufacture, a chair-seat constructed of
veneers of wood with the grain running crosswise of each other
and glued together, all substantially as set forth, and for the
purpose specified."
The specification and claims of the first reissue were in these
words:
" Figure 1 is a plan view, partly in section, of my improved
seat, the section showing the middle layer of veneer. Fig. 2 is
a view of my improved seat for chairs, settees, &c., this figure
showing a longitudinal section of the seat, taken on the line x
of Fig. 1. Similar letters of reference refer to like parts in
both of the figures.
"This invention relates to bottoms for seats, and consists in
constructing the said seats of two or more veneers of -wood,
with the grains crossing each other, the said veneers of wood
being glued together by an adhesive substance.
"I have shown in the drawing adcompanying this specification three layers of veneer, applied to the construction of and
forming a seat for chairs. These layers of veneer are represented
by the letters A, B and C. The grain of veneer A crosses
that of veneer B, as shown in section in Fig. 1, and the
grain of veneer B crosses that of veneer C, as seen in Fig. 2.
Veneers, when thus arranged, that is to say, with the. grains
crossing each other, or diversified, will make -a seat which, for
durability and economy, will be found to be a very useful improvement. I make the seat either solid, or perforated as shown

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

in Fig. 1. 'A slight concave configuration may be given to the
seat.
"The perforated seats -are made by boring a round bole of
any design desired; and they may be bored either by hand or
by machinery adapted for the purpose. The perforated seats
are desirable, as they are ventilated and ornamental.
"I have especially shown and described my improved seat for
chairs. The veneers of which this seat is constructed rest upon
a shoulder, f, of a frame, F, which surrounds them, as shown
in Fig. 2 of the drawing. The veneers, with the grains crossed
or diversified and glued together, become homogeneous, thus
-making a solid piece of wood, from which I make the bottom
of the seat, which, when perforated and varnished, is ready for,
the market.
"Veneers, when thus arranged, that is to say, with the grain
running crosswise or in diverse directions, will make a bottom
foF a seat which, for economy and durability, will be found to
be a very useful improvement. The bottoms thus made may
be left solid, or perforated after some design agreeable to the
fancy of the one having them made. A slightly concave configuration may be given to the bottom, as shown in Fig. 2,
which greatly adds to the comfort of the party using it. The
bottom thus made is secured to a frame, F, which surrounds
it, and through the latter is secured to the seat-frame, K.
"Having thus described my invention, what I claim is"1. As a new article of manufacture, a bottom for a seat, constructed of two or more veneers or thin layers of wood, with
the grain of the one layer crossing that of the other, and the
whole secured together with an adhesive substance, substantially as set forth.
"2.As a new article of manufacture, a bottom for a seatframe, constructed of two or more veneers or thin layers
of wood, with the grain of the one layer crossing that of the
other, said lavers being secured together by an adhesive substance, and having perforations formed therein for the purpose of ventilation or ornamentation, substantially as set
forth.
"3. The combination of a seat-bottom, constructed of two or

GARDNER v. HERZ.
Opinion of the Court.

more veneers or thin layers of wood, with the grain of the one
layer crossing that of the other, and the whole secured together
by an adhesive substance, with the frame of the seat, substantially as set forth.
"4. The combination of a seat-bottom, constructed of two or
more veneers or thin layers of wood, the grain of the one layer
crossing that of the other, and the whole secured together by
an adhesive substance, and provided with perforations for the
purpose of ventilation or ornamentation, with the frame of 'a
seat, substantially as set forth.
"5. As a new article of manufacture, a wooden bottom for
seats, provided with perforations for the purpose of ventilation
or ornamentation.
"6. As a new article of manufacture, a seat-bottom constructed of two or more veneers or thin layers of wood, the
grain of the one layer crossing that of the other, and secured
together by an adhesive substance, said bottom thus formed
having a curved or concave conliguration on its upper side, substantially as set forth."
The specification and claims of the second reissue were in
these words:
"The state of the art in relation to devices .having a similarity to my invention may be set forth as follows: In letterspatent No. 15,552, granted" to John H. Belter, "August 19,
1856, a bedstead is described made of veneers glued together,
with the grains crossing, and in such patent there is a statement that veneers crossing and glued together had been used
for combining strength and lightness. In letters-patent No.
19,405," granted to John H. Belter, "February 23, 1858, chairs
and other articles of furniture are described as made of layers
of wood or veneers crossing each -other, glued together, and
pressed to shape. In letters-patent No. 40,509, granted November 3, 1863, boxes are described as made of veneers or
layers of wood crossing each other and glued together. In
letters-patent No. 23,225, granted" to Zebulon B. Bellows,
"March 15, 1859, a chair-bottom is described as made of a
piece of board softened by steam and pressed up to shape,
in moulds. In letters-patent No. 110,096, DeLember 13, 1870,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

a barrel is described of lamina of wood with the grain crossing
and glued together. Sheet metal perforated to form chair-bottoms is set forth in A. S. Smith's patent, reissued" to Isaac P.
Tice, "June 27, 1865. Chair-seats of enamelled hard rubber
and gutta-percha perforated are set forth in letters-patent No.
54,863," granted to J. W. Cochran, " May 7, 1866. Letterspatent No. 51,735, granted December 26, 1865, to J. K. Mayo,
set forth numerous articles made of lamina of wood; and in a
subsequent reissue, dated August 18, 1868, mention is made of
a chair-seat, but the same was neither concave nor perforated.
"My invention, as distinguished from the foregoing, relates
to a new article of manufacture, consisting of a chair-seat made
of veneers of wood, with the grains of one veneer crossing the
other and glued together, and having a concave or dishing
form, and perforated.
"From the foregoing it will be apparent that I do not lay any
claim- to the veneers crossing each other and glued together, as
-these have been used for various purposes, and even for furniture, and*have become public property. Neither do I claim
the pressing of a chair-seat into a concave form by dies.
'Neither do I claim a perforated seat, as sheet metal has been
employed; but it is cold to the person, and'liable to break and
to catch the clothing. Neither do I claim a single layer of
such material as hard rubber or gutta-percha perforated. This
is so expensive as not to be adapted to general use.
".My chair-seat is a new article, possessing great strength and \.
durability. It is very light and cheap. It forms an agreeable
seat. It is not hot in summer or cold in winter. The perforations give the wood a handsome appearance and afford the required ventilation, and the seat is adapted to be secured to any
chair-frame, as it is easily cut and fitted to the same, and the
cost of these seats is less than those made of cane, and they are
much moke durable.
"In the drawings, Figure 1 is a plan, with the upper layer
of veneer partially removed. Fig. 2 is a vertical section of the
chair and seat.
"I have shown three layers of veneers, A B C The grain of
the veneer A crosses that of the veneer B, and the grain of the

GARDNER v. HERZ.

187."

Opiniaii of the Court.

veneer B crosses that of the veneer C, and these are cemented
together by suitable adhesive substance, such as glue.
"The seat is 'of a concave or dishing form, so as to be better
adapted to the shape of the person, and the under side of the
seat is convex.
"The perforations through the seat are to be arranged to
.produce any design that may be agreeable to the fancy of the
person making or using the chair. These perforations make
the seat light, and also ventilate the same.
"'The edges of the seat rest upon and are secured to the chairframe; and in Fig. 2 the frame is rabbeted to form shoulders,
f, upon which the edges of the seat rest.
"I claim as my invention"1. As a new article of manufacture, a chair-seat formed of
laminan of wood with the grain crossed, glued together, and
concave on the upper surface and convex on the lower surface,
adapted to a chair-frame, substantially as set forth.
"12. A chair-seat made of lamine of wood glued together,
with the grains in one layer crossing those of the next, concave on the upper surface, convex on the lower surface, and
perforated, as a new article of manufacture, substantially as
set forth."
While the first reissue was in life the owners of it brought a
suit in equity against the present defendants, in the same
court, alleging infringement of the first five claims of the first
reissue. An application being made for a preliminary injunction it was denied, in May, 1879. 16 Blatchford, 303. The
patent of December, 1865, to the defendant Mayo, and division
E of its reissue of August 18, 1868, (both of them mentioned
,in Gardner's second reissue,) being put in evidence, it was held
'that what was claimed in the first claim of Gardner's first
reissue was described in the two Mayo patents, both of which
were issued prior to Gardner's original patent. This related
to the veneers, with crossing grains, glued together, of the"
first four claims of Gardner's first reissue. As to the perforations of the second, fourth and fifth claims of that reissue,
the Tice reissue of June 27, 1865, and the Cochran patent of
May 22, 1866, (both of them mentioned in Gardner's second

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the CourL

reissue,) were put in evidence, and it was held, that they
showed a chair-seat of perforated sheet metal, and one of perforated enamelled india-rubber or gutta-percha, containing
every feature of ventilation and ornamentation, resulting from
perforations, which Gardner's perforated chair-seat exhibited;

and that; in view of those prior perforated seats, there was no
patentable novelty in perforating a wooden bottom. The conclusion of the court was, that there was nothing new or
patentable in the first five claims of Gardner's first reissue, in
view- of the patents referred to. It was not claimed that the
sixth claim of that reissue had been infringed. The defendants' "seat bottom involved in that case was made of two or
more veneers or thin layers of wood, with the grain of the one
'layer crossing that of the other, and "he whole secured together with an adhesive substance; and there were slots or
slits cut through the seat, as long as the length of the seat
bottom from front to rear, leaving longitudinal hbles of that
length, and thus forming ribs or slats, the effect of which was
to make the seat bottom yielding and elastic.
A little over five months after this decision was made, the
second reissue was applied for, and about four months after it
was granted this suit was brought. The answer attacks the
.novelty and patentability of the invention and the validity of
both reissues. After issue, proofs were taken, and in June,
1882, the Circuit Court rendered a decision, dismissing the bill,
20 Blatchford, 538, and from the decree to that effect the
plaintiffs have appealed.
The second claim is the only one in question. It will be well
here to repeat it: "2. A chair-seat made of laminm of wood
glued together, with the grains in one layer crossing those of
the next, concave on the upper surface, convex on the lower
surface, and perforated, as a new article of manufacture, substantially as set forth." The defendants made and sold such
chair-seats.
Referring to the decision as to the first reissue, to the effect
that veneers, with the grains of the successive layers crossed
and cemented together, adapted for the construction of chairs
and settees, were shown in the two Mayo patents, and that the

GARDNER v. HERZ.
Opinion of the Court.

Mayo reissue, division E, described the shaping of the material,
,when made pliable, by compression in a matrix or on formiiers,
and that the Tice and Cochran patents showed perforated
chair-seats of metal and gutta-percha, the Circuit Court held, in
this case, that the only question open, as to the second reissue,
was, whether the concavity of form, made an element of the
second claim of that reissue, would support the patent. Concurring, as we do, in the views and conclusions of the court,
and finding them well expressed in its opinion, we repeatthem
here :
"Chair bottoms made of board and softened by steam and
pressed to a concave shape in a mould, so that the form of the
seat will conform to the shape of the person who may occupy
it, are shown in the letters-patent issued to Z. B. Bellows, bearing date March 15, 1859. So, also, the concave or dishing form
of chair-seats bad been adopted long before Gardner's patent,
in ordinary chair-seats. In the specification of 'the present reissue the inventor states that he does not lay any claim to the
veneers crossing each other and glued together, as these have
been used for various purposes and have become public property, and that he does not claim the pressing of a chair-seat
into the concave form by dies.
"If there was no patentable novelty in using the perforations
of the metal or gutta-percha chair-seats in the veneer seat by
Gardner, neither can there seem to be any in employing a wvellknown form of chair-seat in his veneer seat. As it had been
pointed out by Mayo that the material used is pliable and can
be pressed into any desired form, and as the reissue disclaims
the pressing of a chair-seat into a concave form, and as chairseats had been so formed, it is difficult to see how there was
any invention in Gardner's chair-seat. Gardner merely applied
a process that was old to a material that was old, to obtain an
old form. Considered as a combination, it is hardly possible
to believe that the perforations or the concavity performed any
new functions in the Gardner seat. An ingenious feature has
been presented, to the effect that the perforations and concavity
co-operate, in Gardner's seat, to prevent warping and curling
of the material used. If this is true, the same elements were

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court

combined in the Baillie chair-back and performed there the
same functions they performed in the Gardner seat. It may
be that the Gardner seat is mechanically a better seat than any
which preceded it, but his improvement is not a patentable
one.
"It is strenuously insisted, that the popularity and success
achieved by the Gardner seat beyond those of his predecessors,
affords cogent evidence both of the utility and patentable novelty of his invention. The answer to this argument is, that
the success of his seat is probably due to a feature which is not
suggested in the original patent, that is, its adaptability for use
by unskilled workmen. 'His seats, as now made, can be fitted
ivithout mechanical skill, to a bottomless chair, and are largely
used to repair chairs in which the original seats have been worn
out, and can be so used without any special skill. They are,
also, -largely sold to chair manufacturers, because they can be
easily adapted to chairs of different sizes and seats of different
forms. But, the chair-seat described in Gardner's original patent, and shown in the drawings, did not practically possess this
characteristic of adaptability, but was a frame seat, which could
only be fitted to a chair by a skilled laborer. Such a chair-seat
would fail to meet the peculiar want which the present chairseat supplies. Considered as a new article of manufacture, if
the complainant's chair-seat .has no frame, and its novelty and
utility consist in its adaptability to be sold separate from the
frame, and to b readily applied by any person to any chair,
then the reissue is for a; different invention from that disclosed
in the original patent.
"In conclusion, in view of the former decision of this court,
the complainan-can only succeed upon the theory that, by imparting a concave form to his chair-seat, he has imparted sufficient patentable novelty -to his"article to sustain a patent; and
this when such a form of chair-seat was old, the material used
was old, and the method of imparting the form to the material
was old. This .theory cannot stand."
On the argument of-the appeal the following considerations
were strongly urged, as grounds for reversing the decree: An
article of manufacture is patentable, under section 4886 of the Re-

GARDNER v. RERZ.

t91 "

Opinion of the Court.

vised Statutes, if it is new and useful. This chair-seat was new
and useful. There did not exist before, as an article of manufacture, a chair-seat composed of laminm of wood, with the grains
crossed, and glued together, moulded to be concave, and perforated. The statute makes novelty and utility the only test
of patentability. In a suit for infringement, the decision of the
Commissioner of Patents is final, as to the matters involved in
granting a patent, except as to the questions specifically enumerated as defences, in the five subdivisions of section 47920 of
the Revised Statutes. Unless substantially the same thing existed before, the article, if useful, is new and patentable. The'
decision of the Commissioner of Patents to that effect is not
reviewable in a suit on the patent.
It is a sufficient answer to these suggestions to say, that the
questions presented are not open ones in this court.
In .Mahn v. Zlarwood, 112 U. S. 354, 358, it was said: "The
statutory defences are not the only defences which may be
made against a patent. Where it is evident that the Commissioner, under a misconception of the law, has exceeded his
authority in granting or reissuing a patent, there is no sound,
principle to prevent a party sued for its infringement from
availing himself of the illegality, independent of any statutory
permission so to do.

.

. . In cases of patents for inven-

tions, a valid defence not given by the statute often arises
whele the question is, whether the thing patented amounts to
a patentable invention. This being a question of law, the
Courts are not bound by the decision of the Commissioner,
although he must necessarily pass upon it." Seveial cases in
this court were there cited to this effect.
On the other point presented it was said, in Thompson v.
Boisselier, 114 U. S. 1, 11, that, under art. 1, sec. 8, subdivision
8 of the Constitution, a patentee "must be an inventor and he
must have made a discovery;" that "the statute has always
carried out this idea," referring to § 6 of the act of July 4, "836
5 Stat. 119. and § 24 of the act of July 8, 1870, 16 Stat. 201,
and § 4886 of the Revised Statutes; that "it is not enough that
a thing shall be new, in the sense that, in the shape or form in
which it is produced, it shall not have been before known, and

192

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.'
Opinion of the Court.

that it shall be useful, but it must, under the Constitution and
the statute, amount to an invention or' discovery." A large
number of cases in this court were there referred to, and one
'especially, where the thing claimed was new, "in the sense that
it had hot been anticipated by any previous invention, and it
was shown to have superior utility, yet it was held not to be
such an improvement as was entitled to be regarded in the
patent law s an invention." A case to the same effect at this
•term is Yale Lock lfg. Co. v. Greenleaf, 117 U. S. 554.
It is strongly urged that Gardner's seat is cheap, strong,
durable, can be applied to different chair-seat frames, can be
sold separate from chair-seat frames, and can be applied to
chair-seat frames by unskilled labor; and that, therefore, it was
patentable. But these views are fully met by the observations
of the court below, above set forth.
The fabric being old, the suggestion to construct chair-seats
out of it being old, the shaping of it in a former being old, the
,perforation of a seat for ventilation and ornamentation being
old, and-the giving of a concave shape to a wooden seat by
pressure being old, there cannot, in view of the disclaimers in
the second reissue, be anything patentable-in the structure. It
was convenient to sell and convenient to buy, and commercially a good article. But a patent cannot be taken out for an
article, oldin purpose and shape and mode of use, when made
for the first time out of an existing material, and with accompaniments before applied to such an article, merely because the
idea has pccurred that it would be a good thing to make the
article out of that particular old material. Beyond that, the
suggestion in the second reissue, that "the seat is adapted to be
secured to any chair-frame, as it is easily cut and fitted to the
same," is not found in the original patent, or in the first reissue;
and is new matter, so far as anything in it can be invoked to
confer patentability on the article.
The second reissue appears,.by the decision of the examinersin-chief of the Patent Office, on appeal, found in the record, to
have been granted on the sole ground that Gardner's chair-seat
was an independent article, formed and shaped as described, to
be put on the market by itself, and ready to be attached to a

GARDNER v. HERZ.
Opinion of the Court.

chair-frame, and not to be marketed as a component part of a
chair, but as a seat ready to be fitted and affixed to a chair.
Nothing to this purport being found in the original patent, or
in the first reissue, and the first reissue having been applied for
more than 3 years and 10 months, and the second reissue more
than 7 years and 5 months, after the original patent was granted,
no ground for patentability can be derived from the insertion
of such suggestions in rhe second reissue.
There was a recent instructive case in England, in the Court
of Appeal, before Lord Coleridge and Justices Field and ]Bowen,
Saxby v. Gloucester WMaggom Co., 7 Q. B. D. 305, where the
question was, whether "the invention specified was such a substantial improvement on what had already been known and
published as to render it the proper subject of a patent." The
specified patented combination did not before exist, but it existed with the exception of two pieces of mechanism, and their
use for the purpose of doing what they did in the combination
was well known. But it was held that the combination might
have been made "by any intelligent mechanical workman,"
with no other instructions than those contained in a prior pat-,
ent to the same inventor; and that there was no novelty in the
combination sufficient to constitute a patent. In regard to
another branch of the case, it appeared, that, taking two prior
separate inventions together, every element of the patent in
question was to be found in one or the other of those inventions, and it was held that the combination of the two priori inventions did not require "an exercise of such an amount of skill
and ingenuity as to entitle it to the protection of an exclusive
grant." This case is referred to for the purpose of showing
that the question of patentability, as depending on the quantum
of inventive skill in a given case, is one which the courts of
England consider in a suit for infringement. See, also, Penn.
.RcdlroadCo. v. locomotive Tuek Co., 110 U. S. 490, and the
cases there collected.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
Afflrmed.
VOL.

cxvi-13

