OCTOBER TERM,

1885.

Statement of Facts.

judge as sufficient security. It was accepted, however, and the
attachment was discharged. It stands, therefore, as security
for the payment of the judgment, and the judge, when he took
the supersedeas bond, acted with reference to a judgment which
was "otherwise secured" within the meaning of Rale 29, and
could be governed accordingly. The present motion is not
made because the condition of the Fidelity Company has
changed since the security was taken, but because another
surety ought to have bebn required before the attachment was
discharged. This was one of the facts existing at the time the
security was accepted, and, therefore, under the rule in Jerome
v. X'Carter,not open to consideration here for the purposes of
a review of the action of the judge who fixed the amount.
Denied.

CAMBRIA IRONV OOMPAIY v. ASHBURIN.
APPEAL

FROM THE

CIoCUIT

COURT

OF THE UIT

STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Submitted April 5, 1886.-Decided April 19, 1886.

United States v. Bowen, 100 U. S. 508, affirmed, to the point that where the
meaning of the Revised Statutes is plain, the court cannot recur to the
original statutes to see if errors were committed in revising them, but it
may do so, when necessary to construe doubtful language used in the revision.
Teffc rson v. Driver, 117 U. S. 272', affirmed and applied to the point that the
removal of a cause from a State court on'the ground of local prejudice can
be had, only where all the parties to the suit on one side are citizens of different States from those on the other : and that the provision as to the
removal of a separable controversy under the second subdivision of Rev.
Stat. § 639 has no application to removals under the third subdivision.

This was an appeal from an order remanding the cause to the
State court from whence it had been removed. The case is
Stated in the opinion of the court.

CAMBRIA IRON COMPANY v. ASHBURN
Opinion of the Court.

3'. William . Rameey Xr3. -Lawrence 2Iaxwell JI'., and
.tr. .Xortimer .fatthew8 for appellant
.Mr. C. B. IXiatthew8 for appellee.
Mr. CuIEF JUSTICE WArTE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an appeal under § 5 of the act of March 3, 1875, 18
Stat. 470, ch. 137, from an order of the Circuit Count remanding
a cause which had beeui removed from the State court. The
facts are these:
On the 14th of September, 1883, Stephen Feike brought suit in
the Court of Common Pleas of Scioto County, Ohio, against the
Cincinnati and Southeastern Railroad Company to collect a debt
due to him from the railroad company and asking the appointment of a receiver. On the same day that the petition was filed
the railroad company, then the only defendant, entered its appearance and waived both process and notice of an application for
the appointment of a receiver. At the same time W. R. McGill,
another creditor of the company, came in, and by leave of the
court made himself a party defendant, and filed an answer and
cross-petition, in which he asked for himself the same relief
that had been prayed by Feike. Immediately upon the filing
of these pleadings a receiver was appointed with full power
to take possession of and manage the railroad and other property of the company. On the 20th of September, R. M. Shoemaker, T. Q. Ashburn, M. Jamison, P. F. Swig, and L. W.
Bishop, trustees under various mortgages of the railroad
company, came in voluntarily and by leave of the court made
themselves parties defendant. On the 5th of November, Shoemaker, one of the trustees, answered the petition. On the 21st
of February, 1884, the Lomas Forge and Bridge Comjany
was made a defendant and filed a cross-petition, asking to
be paid certain claims for supplies out of the earnings of the
road.
On the 5thi of June, 1884, the Cambria Iron Company,
a Pennsylvania corporation, filed an answer and cross-petition,
by leave of the court, to recover the price of a quantity of steel

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

rails which had been delivered to the railroad cbmpany a short
time before the appointment of the receiver and used in the
consfruction of the railroad, or to have a return of the rails
with a reasonable compensation for their use. A judgment for
damages was also asked, because of a refusal to accept other
rails which had been contracted for and a delivery tendered.
On the 15th of June, Post & Co. were admitted defeifdants,
and they filed an answer and cross-petition asking payment of
an amount due them for spikes, angle-bars and bolts, and on
the 19th of July, D. M. Richardson filed an answer and'crosspetition, in which he asked payment of an amount due him for
the construction of part of the road. On the 6th of January,
1885, Shoemaker & Ashburn filed an answer and cross-petition for a foreclosure of the mortgage executed to them as
trustees, and on the 5th of February Richardson demurred to
the answer and cross-petition of the Cambria Iron Company.
On the 5th of August the case was referred, on motion of Feike,
Richardson and Ashburn, and with the consent of all the other
parties, to a master to take testimony and report upon the
questions and issues raised by the pleadings. This report was
filed December 10, 1885, and on the 24:th of the same month
-the Cambria Iron Company presented a petition for the removal of the suit to the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Southern District of Ohio, on the ground of prejudice
and local influence. This petition set forth that the Iron Company was a citizen of Pennsylvania and all the other parties to
the suit citizens of Ohio. The suit was entgred in the Circuit
Court, and on the 8th of February, 1886, Ashburn, one of the
parties, moved that it be remanded, (1) because it was not re-,
movable, and (2) because the petition was not filed in time.
This motion was granted February 10, and from an order to
that effect the appeal was taken.
There is here but one suit, and that between Stephen Feike,
the plaintiff, a citizen of Ohio, on one side, and the several
defendants, one a citizen of Pennsylvania, and the others.
citizens of Ohio, on the other side. It is conceded that the
petition wyas filed too late for a removal under the act of 1875,.
and that the Iron Company is not entitled to a removal on its
*

CAMBRIA IRON COMPANY. v. ASHBURN.
Opinion of the Court.

separate petition under the third subdivision of § 639 Rev.
Stat., unless because its cross-petition presents a separate controversy in the suit in which that company alone appears as
plaintiff and all the other parties as defendants. It was decided at the present term, in Je/fer8cn v. -Driver,117 U. S. 272,
that the provision for a removal of a separable controversy in
the second subdivision of § 639 did not apply to removals
under the third subdivision, but it is now argued that this
cannot be'so, because tLe original local prejudice act of March
2, 1867, 14 Stat. 558, ch. 196, was enacted as an amendment
of the removal act of July 27, 1866, 14 Stat. 306, ch. 288,
which had no other purpose than to authorize the removal of
separable controversies. The law which governs this subject
now is all found in § 639, and it was decided in United States
v. Bowen, 100 U. S. 508, that "the Revised Statutes of the
United States must be accepted as the law on the subjects
which they embrace as it existed on the first of December,
1873. When their meaning is plain, the court cannot recur to
the original statutes to see if errors were committed in revising them, but it may do so when necessary to construe doubtful language used in the revision."
There is nothing of doubtful meaning in this section. It is
divided into three subdivisions, all relating to the removal of
suits, but each providing for a separate class. The first em-braces the cases provided for in § 12 of the Judiciary Act of
1789, 1 Stat. 79, ch. 20; the second the cases in which there is
a separable controversy, and the third the cases affected by
prejudice or local influence. Each subdivision is complete in
itself and in no way depends on any other. Each describes
the particular class of suits to which it relates, and without
reference to the others. The language of the third subdivision is, "When a suit is between a citizen of the State. in
which it is brought and a citizen of another State, it may b6
so removed on the petition of the latter," if he files with his
petition "an affidavit that he has reason to believe and does
believe, that, from prejudice and local influence, he will not be
able to obtain justice in such State court." This-is the language substantially of the act of March 2, 1867, 14 Stat. 559,

