HARKNESS v. RUSSELL.
Syllabus.

under all the circumstances, that of careful, prudent, business
men, and it would be a harsh interpretation of their acts to
hold (in the language in some of the cases, when considering
the general question under a different state of facts) that they
allowed or permitted the name of Whitney to remain on the
stock register as a shareholder. We are of opinion that, within
a reasonable construction of the statute, and for all the objects
intended to be accomplished by the provision imposing liability upon shareholders for the debts of national banks, the responsibility of the defendants must be held to have ceased
upon the surrender of the certificates to the bank and the delivery to its president of a power of attorney sufficient to effect, and intended to effect, as that officer knew, a transfer of
the stock, on the books of the association, to the purchaser.
For the reasons stated, the judgment is
1ever8ed, and the cause remanded, with direetioz8 to e&Ar a
judgment for the defendants.

HARKN'ESS v. RUSSELL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
Submitted November 17, 1885.-Decided November 8, 1886.

In the absence of fraud, an agreement for a conditional sale of personal property accompanied by delivery is good and valid, as well against third
persons as against the parties to the transaction.
A bailee of personal property, who receives it under an agreement that he
may purchase it on the performance of conditions on his part, cannot convey title to it or subject it to execution for his own debts, until performance
of the conditions on which the agreement to sell is made.
A, having agreed to sell certain personal property to B on the performance
of conditions on his part, delivered it to him, and took from him a promissory note stating the following as the condition of the sale: "The express
condition of this transaction is such that the title, ownership, or possession
of said property does not pass from the said A until this note and interest
shall have been paid in full, and the said A has full power to declare this note
due and take possession of said engine and saw-mill when he may deem himself

• 664

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

insecure, even before the maturity of this note. In case said property shall
be taken back, A may sell the same at public or private sale without notice,
or he may without sale endorse the true value of the property on this note,
and I'agree to pay on the note any balance due thereon after such endorsement, as damages and rental for said machinery." B entered into possession,
and, without performing the conditions of sale, sold the property to 0, who
knew that it had not been paid for, and that A claimed title to it. At the
time of the sale to C, the value of the property was less than the amount
due on the:note. In an action against C to recover the value of the property, Held: That this transaction was not a mortgage, butwas an executory
conditional sale; and, being free from fraud, that it was valid.

This was an appeal from the Supreme Court of Utah. The
action was brought in the District Court for Weber County,
to recover the value of two steam-engines and boilers, and a
portable saw-mill connected with each engine. A jury being
waived, the court found the facts and rendered judgment for the
plaintiff, Russell & Co. The plaintiff is an Ohio corporation,
and by its agent in Idaho, on the 2d of October, 1882, agreed
with a partnership firm by the name of Phelan & Ferguson,
residents of Idaho, to sell to them the said engines, boilers,
and saw-mills for the price of $4988, nearly all of which was
secured by certain promissory notes, which severally contained
the terms of the agreement between-the parties. One of the
notes (the others being in the same form) was as follows, to
wit:
"SALT LAxE Orr, Oct. 2, 1882.
"On or before the first day of May, 1883, -for value received
in one sixteen-horse portable engine, No. 1026, and one portable saw-mill, No. 128, all complete, bought of L. B. Mattison,
agent of Russell & Co., we, or either of us, promise to pay to
the order of Russell & Co., Massillon, Ohio, $300, payable at
Wells, Fargo & Co.'s bank, Salt Lake City, Utah Territory,
with ten per cent. interest per annum from October 1, 1882,
until paid, and reasonable attorney's fees, or any costs that may
be paid or incurred in any action or proceeding instituted for
the collection of this note or enforcement of this covenant.
The express condition of this transaction is such that the title,
ownership, or possession of said engine and saw-mill does not

HARKNESS v. RUSSELL.
Statement of Facts.

pass from the said Russell & Co. until this note and interest
shall have been paid in full, and the said Russell & Co. or his
agent has full power to declare this note due and take possession of said engine and saw-mill when they may deem themselves insecure, even before the maturity of this note; and it is
further agreed by the makers hereof, that if said note is not
paid at maturity, that the interest shall be two per cent. per
month from maturity hereof till paid, both before and after
judgment, if any should be rendered. In case said saw-mill and
engine shall be taken back, Russell & Co. may sell the same
at public or private sale without notice, or they may without
sale endorse the true value of the property on this note, and wo
agree to pay on the note any balance due thereon after such
endorsement, as damages and rental for said machinery. As
to this debt we waive the right to exempt or claim as exempt
any property, real or personal, we now own, or may hereafter
acquire, by virtue of any homestead or exemption law, State
or Federal, now in force, or that hereafter may be enacted.
"P. 0., Oxford, Oneida County, Idaho Territory.
"$300.
PHELAN & FERGusoN."
Some of the notes were given for the price of one of the
engines with its accompanying boiler and mill, and the others
for the Price of the other. Some of the notes were paid; and
the present suit was brought on those that were not paid. The
property was delivered to Phelan & Ferguson, on the "execution of the notes, and subsequently they sold it to the defendant Harkness, in part payment of a debt due from them to him
and one Langsdorf. The defendant, at the time of the sale to
him, knew that the purchase-price of the property had not
been paid to the plaintiff, and that the plaintiff claimed title
thereto until such payment was made. The unpaid notes giveh
for each engine and mill exceeded in amount the value of such
engine and mill when the action was commenced.
The Territory of Idaho has a law relating to chattel mort.
gages [Act of January 12, 1875], requiring that every such
mortgage shall set out certain particulars as to parties, time,
amount, &c., with an affidavit attached, that it is bonajfde, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court,

made without any design to defraud and delay creditors; and
requiring the mortgage and affidavit to be recorded in the
county where the mortgagor lives, and in that where the property is located; and it is declared that no chattel mortgage
shall be valid (except as between the parties thereto) without
compliance with these requisites, unless the mortgagee shall have
actual possession of the property mortgaged. In the present
case no affidavit was attached to the notes, nor were they recorded.
The court found that it was the intention of Phelan & Ferguson, and of Russell & Co., that the title to the said property
should not pass from Russell & Co. until all the notes were
paid.
Upon these facts the court found, as conclusions of law, that
the transaction between Phelan & Ferguson and Russell & Co.
was a conditional, or executory sale, and not an absolute sale
with a lien reserved, and that the title did not pass to Phelan
& Ferguson, or from them to the defendant; and gave judgment for the plaintiff. The Supreme Court of the Territory
affirmed this judgment. This appeal was taken from that
judgment.
-Mr.Parley L. Williams (.Mr. James N. Zimball and M'r.
Abbot R. Heywood were with him on the brief), for appellant.
Afr. Charles 17 Bennett, for appellee.
1MR. JUsTiQE BRA LEY, after stating the facts as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.

The first question to be considered i, whether the transaction in question was a conditional sale or a mortgage; that is,
whether it was a mere agreement to sell upon a condition to
be performed, or an absolute sale, with a reservation of a lien
or mortgage to secure the purchase-money. If it was the
latter, it is conceded that the lien or mortgage was void as
against third persons because not verified by affidavit and
not recorded as required by the law of Idaho. But, so far as
words and the express intent of the parties can go, it is per-

HARKNESS v. RUSSELL.
Opinion of the Court.

fectly evident that it was not an absolute sale, but only an
agreement to sell upon condition that the purchasers should
pay their notes at maturity. The language is: "The express
condition of this transaction is such that the title
does not pass

.

.

.

until this note and interest shall have

been paid in full." If the vendees should fail in this, or if the
vendors should deem themselves insecure before the maturity of
the notes, the latter were authorized to repossess themselves of
the machinery, and credit the then value of it, or the proceeds of
it if they should sell it, upon the unpaid notes. If this did not
pay the notes, the balance was still to be paid by the makers
by way of "damages and rental for said machinery." This
stipulation was strictly in accordance with the rule of damages
in such cases. Upon an agreement to sell, if the purchaser
fails to execute his contract, the true measure of damages for
its breach is the difference between the price of the goods
agreed on and their value at the time of the breach or trial,
which may fairly be stipulated to be the price they bring on a
re-sale. It cannot be said, therefore, t at the stipulations of
the contract were inconsistent with, or repugnant to, what the
parties declared their intention to be, namely, to make an
executory and conditional contract of sale. Such contracts are
well known in the law and often recognized; and when free
from any fraudulent intent are not repugnant to any principle
of justice or equity, even though possession of the property be
given to the proposed purchaser. The rule is formulated in
the text-books and in many adjudged cases. In Lord Blackburn's Treatise on the Contract of Sale, published forty years
ago, two rules are laid down as established: (1.) That where
by the agreement the vendor is to do anything to the goods
before delivery, it is a condition precedent to the vesting of the
property. (2.) That where anything remains to be done to
the goods for ascertaining the price, such as weighing, testing,
&c., this is a condition precedent to the transfer of the property.
Blackburn on Sales, 152. And it is subsequently added, that
"the parties may indicate an intention, by their agreement, to
make any condition precedent to the vesting of the property,
and, if they do so, their intention is fulfilled." Blackburn on

OCTOBER TERM;

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

Sales, 167. Mr. Benjamin, in his Treatise on Sales of Personal
Property, adds to the two formulated rules of Lord Blackburn
a third rule, which is supported by many authorities, to wit:
(3.) "Where the buyer'is by the contract bound to do anything
as a condition, either precedent or concurrent, on which the
passing of the property depends, the property will not pass
until the condition be fulfilled, even though the goods may
have been actually delivered into the possession of the buyer."
Benjamin on Sales, 2d Ed., p. 236; 3d Ed. § 320. The author
cites for this proposition Bishop v. Shillito, 2. B. & Aid. 329,
note (a); Brcandt v. Bowby, 2 Barn. & Adolph. 932; Barow
v. Coles (Lord Ellenborough), 3 Campbell, 92; Swain v.
SA4heprd (Baron Parke), 1 Mood. & Rob. 223; -Wires v. Sole,bay, 2 Mod. 243. In the last case, decided in the time of
Charles II., one Alston took sheep to pasture for a certain
time, with an agreement that if at the end of that time he
should pay the owner a certain sum, he should have the sheep.
Before the time expired the owner sold them to another person; and it was held, that the sale was valid, and that the
agreement to sell the sheep to Alston, if he would pay for
them at a certain day, did not amount to a sale, but only to an
agreement. The other cases were instances of sales of goods to
be paid for in cash. or securities on delivery. It was held that
the sales were conditional only, and that the vendors were entitled to retake the goods, even after delivery, if the condition
was not performed, the delivery being considered as conditional. This often happens in cases of sales by auction, when
certain terms of payment are prescribed, with a condition that
if they are not complied with the goods may be re-sold for
account of the buyer, who is to account for any deficiency
between the second sale and the first. Such was the case of
-Lamon(d v. Davall, 9 Q. B. 1030, and many more cases could
be cited. In C'rawcour v. Robertson, 9 Ch. Div. 419, certain
furniture dealers let Robertson have a lot of furniture upon his
paying £10 in cash and signing an agreement to pay £5 per
month (for which notes were given) until the whole price of
the furniture should be paid, and when all the instalments
were paid, and not before, the furniture was to be the property

HARKNESS v. RUSSELL.
Opinion of the Court.

of Robertson; but if he failed to pay any of the instalments,
the owners were authorized to take possession of the property,
and all prior payments actually made were to be forfeited.
The court of appeal held that the property did not pass by
this agreement, and could not be taken as Robertson's property
by his trustee under a liquidation proceeding. The same conclusion was reached in the subsequent case of Crawcour v.
Salter, 18 Ch. Div. 30. In these cases, it is true, support of
the transaction was sought from a custom which prevails in
the places where the transactions took place, of hotel-keepers
holding their furniture on hire. But they show that the intent
of the parties will be recognized and sanctioned where it is
not contrary to the policy of the law. This policy, in England,
is declared by statute. It has long been a provision of the
English bankrupt laws, beginning with 21 James I., c. 19, that
if any person becoming bankrupt has in his possession, order,.
or disposition, by consent of the owner, any goods or chattels
of which he is the reputed owner, or takes upon himself the
sale, alteration, or disposition thereof as owner, such goods axe
to be sold for the benefit of his creditors. This law has had the
effect of preventing or defeating conditional sales accompanied
by voluntary delivery of possession, except in cases like those
before referred to; so that very- few decisions are to be
found in the English books directly in point on the question
under consideration. The following case presents a fair illustration of the English law as based upon the statutes of bankruptcy. In )Jorn v. Baker, 9 East, 215, the owner of a term
in a distillery, and of the apparatus and utensils employed
therein, demised the same to J. & S., in consideration of an
annuity to be paid to the owner and his wife during their
several lives, and upon their death the lessees to have the
liberty of purchasing the residue of the term and the apparatus
and utensils; with a proviso for re-entry if the annuity should
at any time be two months in arrear. The annuity having
become in arrear for that period, instead of making entry for
condition broken, the wife and administrator of the owner
brought suit to recover the arrears, which was stopped by the
bankruptcy of J. & S. The question then arose whether the

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

.utensils passed to the assignees of J. & S. under the bankrupt
act., as being in their possession, order, and disposition as
reputed owners; and the court held that they did; but that if
there had been a usage in the trade of letting utensils with a
distillery, the case would have admitted a different consideration, since such a custom might have rebutted the presumption
of ownership arising from the possession and apparent order
and disposition of the, goods. This case was followed in Holroyd v. Cwynne, 2 Taunt. 176,
This presumption of property in a bankrupt, arising from his
possession and reputed ownership, became so deeply embedded
in the English law, that, in process of time, many persons in
the profession, not adverting to its origin in the statute of
bankruptcy, were led to regard it as a doctrine of the common
law; and hence, in some States in this country, where no such
statute exists, the principles of the statute have been followed,
and conditional sales of the kind now under consideration
have been condemned, either as being fraudulent and void as
against creditors, or as amounting, in effect, to absolute sales
with a reserved lien or mortgage to secure the payment of the
purchase-money. This view is based on the notion that such
sales are not allowed by law, and that the intent of the
parties, however honestlk formed, cannot legally be carried
out. The insufficiency of this argument is demonstrated by
the fact that conditional sales are admissible in several acknowledged cases, and, therefore, there cannot be any rule of
law against them as such. They may sometimes be used as a
cover for fraud, and, when this is charged, all the circumstances of the case, this included, will be open for the consideration
of a jury. Where no fraud is intended, but the honest purpose
of the parties is that the vendee shall not have the ownership
of the goods until he has paid for them, there is no general
principle of law to prevent their purpose from having effect.
In this country, in States where no such statute as the English act referred to is in force, many decisions have -been rendered sustaining conditional sales accompanied by delivery of
possession, both as between the parties themselves and as to
third persons.

HARKNESS v. RUSSELL.
Opinion of the Court.

In JHumeey v. Thornton, 4 Mass. 404, decided ii 1808, where
goods were delivered on board of a vessel for the vendee upon
an agreement for a sale, subject to the condition that the goods
should remain the property of the vendors until they received
security for payment, it was held (Chief Justice Parsons delivering the opinion) that the property did not pass, and that the
goods could not be attached by the creditors of the vendee.
This case was followed in 1822 by that of 3farston v. Baldzn, 17 Mass. 606, which was replevin against a sheriff for
taking goods which the plaintiff hlA agreed to sell to one
Holt, the defendant in the attachment; but by the agreement
the property was not to vest in Holt until he should pay $100
(part of the price), which condition was not performed, though
the goods were delivered. Holt had paid $75, which the plaintiff did not tender back. The court held that it was sufficient
for the plaintiff to be ready to repay the money when he
should be requested, and a verdict for the plaintiff was sustained. In Barrett v. Pritchard,2 Pick. 512, 515-16, the
court said: "It is impossible to raise a doubt as to the intention of the parties in this case, for it is expressly stipulated
that 'the wool before manufactured, after being manufactur6d,
or in any stage of manufacturing, shall be the property of the
plaintiff until the price be paid.' It is difficult to imagine any
good reason why this agreement should not bind the parties.
The case from Taunton, IYolroyd v. Gwynne, was a
case of a conditional sale; but the condition was void as
against the policy of the statute 21 Jac. I., ch.'19, § 11. It
would not have changed the decision in that case if there had
been no sale; for, by that statute, if the true owner of goods
and chattels suffers another to exercise such control and management over them as to give him the appearance of being the
real owner, and he becomes bankrupt, the goods and chattels
shall be treated as his property, and shall be assigned by the
commissioners for the benefit of his creditors. The case of
Horn v. Baker, 9 East, 215, also turned on the same point,
and nothing in either of these cases has any bearing on the
present question." In Coggill v. "lraroord & NTew Haven
Railroad, 3 Gray, 545-547, the rights of a bona flde pur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

chaser from one in possession under a conditional sale of
goods were specifically discussed, and the court held, in an
able opinion delivered by 31r. Justice Bigelow, that a sale and
delivery of goods on condition that the title shall not vest in
the vendee until payment of the price, passes no title until the
condition is performed, and the vendor, if guilty of no laches,
may reclaim the property, even from one who has purchased
from his vendee in good faith, and without notice. The
learned juetice commenced his opinion in the following terms:
"It has long been the settled rule of law in this commonwealth that a sale and delivery of goods on condition that the
propirty is not to vest until the puirchase-money is paid or
secured, does not pass the title to the vendee, and that the
vendor, in case the condition is not fulfilled, has a right to
repossess himself of the goods, both against the vendee and
against his creditors claiming to hold them under attachments." He then addresses himself to a consideration of the
rights of a bona fide purchaser from the vendee, purchasing
without notice of the condition on which the latter holds the
goods in his possession; and 'he concludes that they are no
greater than those of a creditor. He says: "All the cases
turn on the principle that the compliance with the conditions
of sale and delivery is, by the terms of the contract, precedent
to the transfer of the property from the vendor to the vendee.
The vendee in such cases acquires no property in the goods.
He is only a bailee for a specific purpose. The"delivery which
in ordinary cases passes the title to the vendee must take effect
according to the agreement of the parties, and can operate to
vest the property only when the contingency contemplated by
the contract arises. The vendee, therefore, in such cases,
having no title to the property, can pass none to others. lHe
has only a bare right of possession; and those who claim under him, either as creditors or purchasers, can acquire no higher
or better title. Such is the necessary result of carrying into
.effect the intention of the parties to a conditional sale and
delivery. Any other rule would be equivalent to the denial of
the validity of such contracts. But they, certainly violate no
rule of law, nor are they contrary to sound policy."

HARKNESS v. RUSSELL
Opinion of the Court.

This case was followed in Sargent v. .Aetcayf, 5 Gray, 306;
Dehon, v. Bigelow, 8 Gray, 159; TRIitney v. Eaton, 15 Gray,
225 ; -irTschorn v. Canney, 98 Mass. 149 ; and MT4ae v. ]igalls,
122 Mass. 381 ; and is believed to express the settled law of
Massachusetts.
The same doctrine prevails in Connecticut, and was sustained
in an able and learned opinion of Chief Justice Williams, in
the case of Forbesv. .gar'8h, 15 Conn. 384, decided in 1843,
in which the principal authorities are reviewed. The decision
in this case was followed in the subsequent case of flart v. Car.penter, 24 Conn. 427, where tae question arose upon the claim
of a 5onaXfde purchaser.
In New York the law is the same, at least, so far as relates
to the vendee in a conditional sale, and to his creditors; though
there has been some diversity of opinion in its application to
bona fide purchasers from such vendee. As early as 1822,
in the case of Haggerty v. Palmer, 6 Johns. Ch. 437, where
an auctioneer had .delivered to the purchaser goods sold at
auction, it being one of the conditions of sale that endorsed
notes should be given in payment, which the purchaser failed
to give, Chancellor Kent held that it was a conditional sale
and delivery, and gave no title which the vendee could transfer to an assignee for the benefit,of creditors; and he said that
the cases under the English bankrupt act did not apply here.
The Chancellor remarked, however, that "if the goods had
been fairly sold by P. (the conditional vendee), or if the proceeds had been actually appropriated by the assignees, before
notice of this suit, and of the injunction, the remedy would have
been gone." In Strong v. Taylor, 2 Hill, 326, Nelson, 0. J.,
pronouncing the opinion, it was held to be a conditional sale
where the agreement was to sell a canal-boat for a certain sum
to be *paid in freighting flour and wheat, as directed by the
vendor, he to have half the freight until paid in full with interest. Before the money was all paid the boat was seized under
an execution against the vendee; and, in a suit by the vendor
against the sheriff, a verdict was found for the plaintiff, under,
the instruction of the court, and was sustained in bane, upon
the authority of the Massachusetts case of Barrettv. Piiohard,
VOL.

cxvIn-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

2 Pick. 512.

In Herring v. ifopoek, 15 N. Y. 409, 411, 414,

the same doctrine was followed. In that case there was an
agreement in writing for the sale of an iron safe, which was
delivered to the vendee and a note at six months given therefor;
but it was expressly understood that no title was to pass until
the note was paid; and if not paid, Herring, the vendor, was
authorized to re-take the safe and collect all reasonable charges
for its use. -The sheriff levied on the safe as the property of
the vendee, with notice of the plaintiff's claim. The Court of
Appeals held that the title did not pass out of Herring. Paige,
J., said: "Whenever there is a condition precedent attached
to a contract of sale, which is not waived by an absolute and
unconditional delivery, no title passes to the vendee until he
performs the condition, or the seller waives it." Comstock, J.,
said that if the question were new, it might be more in accordance with the analogies of the law to regard the writing given
on the sale as a mere security for the debt, in the nature of a
personal mortgage; but he considered the law as having been
settled by the previous cases, and the court unanimously concurred in the decision.
In the cases of Smytk v. Lynes, 1 Seld. (5 N. Y.), 41, and
JFait v. Green, 36 Barb. 585; S. C., on appeal, 36 N. Y. 556, it
was. held that a bona fide purchaser,.without notice, from a
vendee. who is in possession under a conditional sale, -will b3
protected as against the original vendor. These cases wer
reviewed, and, we think, substantially overr-Aled; in the subsequent case of Ballard v. Burgett, 40 N. Y. 314, in which
separate elaborate opinions were delivered by Judges Grover
and Lott. This decision was concurred in by Chief Judge Hunt
and Judges Woodruff, Mason, and Daniels; Judges James and
Murray dissenting. In that case Ballard agreed to sell to one
France a yoke of oxen for a price agkeed on, but the contract
had the conditioin "that the oxen were to remain the property
of Ballard until they should be paid for." The oxen were delivered to France, and he,subsequently sold them to the.defendant Burgett, who purchased and received them without notice
that the plaintiff had any claim to them. The court sustained
Ballard's claim; and subsequent cases in New York are in

HARKNESS v. RUSSELL.
Opinion of the Court.

harmony with this decision. See Cole v. fann, 62 N. Y.. 1;
Bean v. Edge, 81 N. Y. 510.
We do not perceive that the case of Dows v. _dder, 84 N.
Y. 121, is adverse to the ruling in Ballardv. Burgett. There,
although the plaintiffs stipulated that the title to the corn
should not pass until payment of the price (which was to be
cash, the same day), yet they endorsed and delivered to the
purchaser the evidence of title, namely, the weigher's return,
to enable him to take out the bill of lading in his own name,
and use it in raising funds to pay the plaintiff. T',A purchaser
misappropriated the funds, and did not pay for the corn.
Here the intent of both parties was that the purchaser might
dispose of the corn, and he was merely the trustee of the plaintiff, invested by him with the legal title. Of course the inno
cent party who purchased the corn from the first purchaser
was not bound by the equities between him and the plaintiff.
The later case of Parker v. Baxter, 86 N. Y. 586, was precisely similar to Dows v. Kidder; and the same principle was
involved in Farwell v. Importers' and Traders'Bank, 90 N. Y.
483, where the plaintiff delivered his own note to a broker to
get it discounted, and the latter pledged it as collateral for a
loan made to himself: the legal title passed, and although,
as between the plaintiff and the broker, the former was the
owner' of the note and its proceeds, yet that was, an equity
which was not binding on the innocent holder.
The decisions in Maine, New Hampshire, and Vermont are
understood to be suobstantially to the same effect as those of
Massachusetts and New York; though by recent statutes in
Maine and Vermont, as also in Iowa, where the same ruling prevailed, it is declared in effect that no agreements that personal
property bargained and delivered to another shall remain
the property of the vendor, shall be valid against third persons
without notice. George v. Stubbs, 26 Maine, 943; Sawyer v.
.Fieher,32 Maine, 28; Brown v. raines, 52 Maine, 578; Boynton v. Dibb-y, 62 Maine, 253; Rogers v. Whitehouse, 71 Maine,
222; ,Sargentv. Gile, 8 N. H. 325; .3feFarlandv. Farmer,42
N. H. 386 ; Eing v. Bates, 57 N. H. 446 ; Heffin v.. Bell, 30
Vt. 134; Arrnington v. ouston, 38 Vt. 448; Fales v. Roberts,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

38 Vt. 503; Duncans v. Stone, 45 Vt. 118; -Mo8eley v. Shattuck,
43 Iowa, 540; Thorpe v. Fowler, 57 Iowa, 541.
The same view of the law has been taken in several other
States. In New Jersey, in the case of Cole v. Berry, 13
Vroom (42 N. J. Law), 308, it was held that a contract for
the sale of a sewing-machine to be delivered and paid for by
instalments, and to remain the*property of the vendor until
paid for, was a conditional sale, and gave the vendee no title
until the condition was performed; and the cases are very
fully discussed and distinguished.
In Pennsylvania the law is understood to be somewhat different. It is thus summarized by Judge Depue, in the opinion
delivered in Cole v. Be ry, where he says: "In Pennsylvania
a distinction is taken between delivery under a bailment, with
an option in the bailee to purchase at a named price, and a delivery under a contract of sale containing a reservation of title
in the vendor until the contracitprice be paid; it being held
that, in the former instance, property does not pass, as in favor
of creditors and purchasers of the bailee, but that, in the latter
instance, delivery to the vendee subjects the property to execution at the suit of his creditors, and makes it transferable to
bonafe purchasers. Charnberlainv. Smith, 44 Penn. St. 431;
Rose v. Story, 1 Penn. St. 190; Afalh v. Mathiot, 14 S. & R.'
214; Haak v. Linderman, 64 Penn. St. 499." But, as the
learned judge adds, ' This distinction is discredited by the
great weight of authority, which puts possession under a conditional contract of sale and possession *under a bailment on
the same footing-liable to be assailed by creditors and purchasers for actual fraud, but not fraudulentper 8e."
In this connection see the case of Copland v. Bo8quet, 4
Wash. 0. C. 588, where Mr. Justice Washington and Judge
Peters (the former delivering the opinion of the court) sustained a conditional sale and delivery against a purchaser from
the vendee, who claimed to be a lona fde purchaser without
notice.
In Ohio the validity of conditional sales accompanied by
delivery of possession is fully sustained. The latest reported
case brought to our attention is that of Call v. Seymour, 40

HARKNESS v. RUSSELL.
Opinion of the Court.

Ohio St. 670, which arose upon a written contract contained
in several promissory notes given for instalments of the purchase-money of a machine, and resembling very much the contract in the case now under consideration. Following the note,
and as a part of the same document, is this condition: "The
express conditions of the sale and purchase of the Separator
and Horse-Power for which this note is given, is such, that the
title, ownership, or possession does not pass from the said Seymour, Sabin & Co. until this note, .with interest, is paid in full.
The said Seymour, Sabin & Co. hve full power to declare this
note due and take possession of said Separator and HorsePower at any time they may deem this note insecure, even
before the maturity of the note, and to sell the 'said machine
at public or private sale, the proceeds to be applied upon the
unpaid balance of the purchase-price." The machine was
seized under a'n attachment issued against the vendee,.and the
action was brought by the vendor against the constable who
served the attAhment. The case was fully argued, and the
authorities pro and con duly considered by the court, which
sustained the condition expressed in the contract and affirmed
the judgment for the plaintiff. See also Sanders v. .eRer, 28
Ohio St. 630.
The same law prevails in Indiana: Skireman,v. Jackson, 14
Ind. 459; Dunr ar v. iawlea, 28 Ind. 225; Bradhaw v. W~arver, 54 Ind. 58; Hod.on v. Warner, 60 Ind. 214; .Afe6irr v.
Selks, 60 Ind. 249.
The same in Michigan: TFitney v..lfeConnell, 29 Mich. 12;
Smith, v. Lozo, 42 Mich. 6; Marquetle lanufacturing Co. v.
Jefferey, 49 Mich. 283.
The same in Missouri: Rikgeway v. Kennedy, 52 Missouri,
24; W1angler v. Franklin, 70 Missouri, 650; Sumner v. Cottey,
71 Missouri, 121.
The same in Alabama: Fairbanks v. Eareka Co., 67 Ala.
109; Sumner v. Woods, 67 Ala. 139.
The same in several other States. For a very elaborate collection of cases on the subject, see Mr. Bennett's note to Benjamin on Sales, 4th ed., § 320, pp. 329-336; and Mr. Freeman's
note to anaga v. Taylor, 7 Ohio St. 134, in 70 Am. Dec. 62.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

It is unnecessary to quote further from the decisions; -the quo.
tations already made show the grounds and reasons of the rule.
The law has been held differently in Illinois, aid very nearly
in conformity with the English decisions under the operation
of the bankrupt law. The doctrine of the Supreme Cofirt of
that State is, that if a person agrees to sell to another a"chattel on condition that the price shall be paid within a certain
time, retaining the title in himself in the meantime, and- delivers the chattel to the vendee so as to clothe hhi with the
apparent ownership, a bona fide purchaser or an execution
creditor of the latter is entitled to protection as against the
claim of the original vendor. Brundage-v. Camp, 21 Ill. 330;
.XicCormick v. iladden, 37 Ill. 370; Xfurch v. TV~ight, 46 Ill.
487; 3fich. Central Railroad v. Phillips,60 Ill. 190; Luea8
v. Campbell, 88 Ill. 447; Van Duzor v. Allen, 90 Ill. 499.
Perhaps the statute of Illinois on the subject of*chattel mortgages has influenced some of these decisions. 'This statute
declares that "no mortgage, trust deed, or oier conveyance
of personal property, having the effect of a mortgage or lien
upon such property, is valid as against the rights and interests
of any third person, unless the possession thereof be delivered
to and remain with the grantee, or the instrument -provide that
the possession of the property may remain with the grantor,
and the instrument be acknowledged and recorded." It has
been supposed that this statute indicates a rule of public policy
condemning secret liens and reservations of title on the part of
vendors, and making void all agreements for such liens or
reservations unless registered in the manner required for chattel mortgages. At all events, the doctrine above ieferred to
has become a rule of- property in Illinois, and we have felt
bound to observe it as such. .In the case of Tervey v. Rhode
Island Locomotive Tlrorks, 93 U. S. 664, 671, where a Rhode
Island company leased to certain Illinois railroad contractors
a locomotive engine and tender at a certain rent, payable at
stated times during the ensuing year, with an agreement that
if the rent was duly paid the engine and tender should become
the property of the lessees, and possession was delivered to
them, this court, being satisfied that the transaction was a

RARKNESS v. RUSSELL.
Opinion of the Court.

conditional sale, and that, by the law of Illinois, the reservation of title by the lessors was void as against third persons,
unless the agreement was recorded (which it was not in proper
time), decided that a levy and sale of the property in Illinois,
under a judgment against the lessees, were valid, and that the
Locomotive Works could not reclaim it. Mr. Justice Davis,
delivering the opinion of the court, said: "It was decided by
this court in Green v. Van. Buskirk, 5 Wall. 30.7, and 7 Wall.
139, that the liability of property to be sold under legal process, issuing from the courts of the State where it is situated,
must be determined by the law there rather than that of the
jurisdiction where the owner lives. These decisions rest on the
ground that every State has the right to regulate the transfer
of property within its limits, and that whoever sends property
to it impliedly submits to the regulations concerning its transfer in force there, although a different rule of transfer prevails
in the jurisdiction where he resides. . . . Tie policy of
the law in Illinois will not permit the owner of personal property to sell it, .either absolutely or conditionally, and still continue in possession of it. Possession is one of the strongest
evidences of title tb this class of property, and cannot be rightfully separated from the title, except in the manner pointed
out by the statute. The courts of Illinois say that to suffer,
without notice to the world, the real ownership to be in one
person, and the ostensible 6wnership in another, gives a false
credit to the latter, and, in this way, works an injury to third
persons. Accordingly, the actual owner of personal property
creating an interest in another to whom it is delivered, if desirous of preserving a lien on it, must comply with the provisions of the Chattel Mortgage Act. Rev. Stat. Ill. 1874, 711,
71221 , The Illinois cases are then referred to by the learned
justice to show the precise condition of the law of that State
on the subject under consideration.
The case of "Hervey v. Rhode Island -Locomotive Works is
relied on by the appellants in the present case as a decision in
their favor; but. this is not a correct con -iusioni; for 't is
apparent that the only points decided in that case were, first,
that it was to be governed by the law of Illinois, the place

OCTOBER TER-M, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

where the property was situated; secondly, that by the law of
Illinois the agreement for continuing the title of the property
in the vendors;after its delivery to the vendees, whereby the
latter became the ostensible owner, was void as against third
persons. This is: all that was decided, and it does not aid the
appellants, unless they can show that the law as held in Illinois,
contrary to the great weight of authority in England and this
country, is that which should govern the present case. And
this we think they cannot do. We do not mean to say that
the Illinois doctrine is not supported by some decisions in other
States. There are such decisions; but they are few in number
compared with those in which it is held that conditional sales
are valid and lawful, as well against third persons as against
the parties to the contract.
The appellants, however, rely with much confidence on the
decision of this court in Heryford v. Davis, 102 U. S. 235,
243, a case coming from Missouri, where the law allows and
sustains conditional sales. But we do not think that this case,
any more than that of ilervey v. Rhode Island Locomotive
IWorks, will be found to support their views. The whole
question in Heryfordv. Davis was as to the construction of the
contract. This was in the form of a lease; but it contained
provisions so irreconcilable with-the idea of its being really a
lease, and so demonstrable tha't it was an absolute sale with a
reservation of a mortgage lien, that the latter interpretation
was given to it by the court. This interpretation rendered it
obnoxious to the statute of Missouri requiring mortgages of personal property to be recorded in order to be valid as against
third persons. It was conceded by the court, in the opinion
delivered by Mr. Justice Strong, that if the agreement had
really amounted to a lease, with an agreement for a conditional
sale, the claim of the vendors would have been valid. The first
two or three sentences of the opinion furnish a key to the whole
effect of the decision. Mr. Justice Strong says: "The correct
determination of this case depends 'altogether upon the construction that must be given to the contract between the Jack.
son & Sharp company and the railroad company, against which
the defendants below recovered their judgment and obtained

HARKNESS v. RUSSELL.
Opinion of the Court.

their execution. If that contract was a mere lease of the cars
to the railroad company, or if it was only a conditional sale,
which did not pass the ownership until the condition should be
performed, the property was not subject to levy and sale undei
execution at the suit of the defendant against the company.
-But if, on the other hand, the title passed by the contract, and
what was reserved by the Jackson & Sharp company was a
lien or security for the payment of the price, or what is called,
sometimes, a mortgage back to the vendors, the cars were subject to levy and sale as the property of the railroad company."
The whole residue of the opinion is occupied with the discussion
of the true construction of the contract, and, as we have stated,
the conclusion was reached that it was not really a lease, nor
a conditional sale, but an absolute sale, with the reservation
of a lien or security for the payment of the price. This ended
the case; for, thus interpreted, the instrument inured as a
mortgage in favor of the vendors, and ought to have been recorded in order to protect them against third persons.
But whatever the law may be with regard to a bona ftde
purchaser from the vendee in a conditional sale, there is a circumstance in the present case which makes it clear of all difficulty. The appellant in the present case was'not a bana .f de
purchaser without notice. The court below find that at the
time of and prior to the sale he knew the purchase-price of
the property had not been paid, and that Russell & Co.
claimed title thereto until such payment was made. Under
such circumstances, it is almost the unanimous opinion of
all the courts that he cannot hold the property as against
the true owners. But as the rulings of this court have been,
as we think, somevhat misunderstood, we have thought it
proper .to examine the subject with some care, and to state
what we regard as the general rule of law, where it is not
affected by local statutes or local decisions to the contrary.
It is only necessary to add that there is nothing either in the
statite or adjudged law of Idaho to prevent, in this case, the
operation of the general rule, which we consider to be established by overwhelming authority, namely, that, in the absence
of fraud, an agreement for a conditional sale is good and valid,

