NORTH v. PETERS.
Syllabus.

any transaction by which appellant, securing the influence of
a few shares of stock held by the nominal directors, should
obtain bonds or contracts by which the value of the stock
would be substantially destroyed, and he become the real
owner? Bonds issued might be valid in law, and apparently
prior to the stock; contracts might give superior rights; yet,
is it not clear that equity would interfere if he, by collusion
with the resident directors, attempted to ignore Alderman
and create in himself a supremacy of ownership? That which
is true when there was equality of ownership between himself
and Alderman is also true when, by a subdivision of Alderman's interest, a like ownership as between himself and his
brother was established on a different basis.
We conclude, therefore, that the Circuit Court was right,
when, in view of this contract, and the other testimony, it
adjudged that the relationship between the brothers was not
that of mere stockholders in a corporation, but that of joint
owners in a common enterprise, the profits and losses of which
were to be shared between them in the proportion of their
respective interests. If that be, as we think, the true interpretation of the relations between-them, we do not understand
that the appellant presents any substantial objection to the
form and terms of the decree. It is, therefore,

Alfflrmed.
MR. JUsTioE BRoww did not sit in this case and took no part
in its decision.

NORTH v. PETERS.
APPEAL FROm THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF DAXOTA.
No. 148. Argued January 13,1891. -Decded

February 2,1891.

L., a merchant in Dakota, intending to defraud his creditors, sold his entire
stock of goods, much of which was of a perishable nature, together
with the good will of the business; to N., who was entirely ignorant of
his purpose, and who paid an. adequate consideration for them. - Sun-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.
dry creditors of L. sued out writs of attachment against him. These
were placed in the hands of a sheriff, who seized the goods as the property of L. N. brought this suit against the sheriff to compel him to surrender the property and to restrain him from again levying upon it as
the property of L., and a preliminary injunction was issued. The question of the validity of the sale was submitted to a jury, who found in
plaintiff's favor. The court thereupon ordered that the preliminary
injunction should be made perpetual. The defendant moved for a new
trial, claiming that the court had failed to find on certain material issues.
The court at a subsequent term denied the motion and made further
findings more explicitly responsive to the questions presented by the
pleadings, and a further conclusion of law that it was extremely difficult
to ascertain the amount of compensation that would afford 'adequate
relief; that it was necessary tZ restrain the ants done and prevent a
multiplicity of suits; and that the plaintiff was entitled to the relief
demanded. 'Held,
(1) That the findings of fact, taken in connection with the verdict of
the jury, entitled N. to the equitable relief sought, and were sufficient to sustain the judgment;
(2) That neither an action of trespass nor an action of replevin could
have afforded him. as complete, prompt and efficient a remedy for
the destruction-of the business as would be furnished by a court
of equity in preventing ,he injury;
(3) That the court below had authority, under the Dakota Code of Civil
Frocedure, after the term had closed, to make additional findings
of fact in support of its judgment, upon a motion for a new trial;
(4) That the sheriff was the proper party defendant, and that, in case he
exceeded his authority he could be proceeded against at law, if
that was a sufficient remedy, or in equity, and it was not necessary to
join the plaintiffs in the writs of attachment as defendants in either
case, as it did not appear that they had directed the seizure;
(5) That the act dmtting the two Dakotas, Montana and Washington
Territories a:s States authorized this court to hear and determine
cases of this character from Territorial courts.

Tins suit was brought in :November, 1883, 'by Andrew
Peters against J. Y. Worth, sheriff of Lincoln County, Dakota Territory, (now in the State of South Dakota,) in a District Court of that Territory, to compel the defendant to
surrender certain merchandise which he had seized and levied
upon as the property of the firm of P. Y. Lund & Co., and
to restrain and enjoin him from again seizing and levying
tpon the same property as the property of that firm, all of
which the plaintiff himself claimed to own.
The amended. complaint alleged that plaintiff was, and since
.

NORTH v. PETERS.
Statement of the Case.

November 12, 1883, had been, the owner of a stock of merchandise worth $10,000, which was situated in a store lately
occupied by P. M. Lund & Co., in Canton, Dakota Territory;
that on November 15, 1883, the clerk of the court in which
this suit was brought issued pretended and informal writs of
attachment against the property of Lund & Co., and was
about to issue many more such writs for the purpose of annoying and vexing plaintiff; that the defendant, the sheriff of the
county, had maliciously and excessively levied those writs
upon the property of plaintiff, above described, well knowing
it to be plaintiff's property, and threatened to levy many
more, and had entered into a conspiracy with divers persons
to annoy, oppress and defraud*the plaintiff; that neither said
Lund & Co. nor any one else but plaintiff had any right, title
or interest in and to said property; that the property levied
upon had been purchased for the current season, and was of a.
perishable nature; that plaintiff had to borrow some money
in order to make the purchase, and depended on his sales to
repay the same; that he was an old man, with a family partly
dependent upon him for support, and had always borne a good
name and credit which was about to be destroyed by the acts
of the defendant, complained of; that unless the sheriff, was
restrained from levying those writs, irreparable injury and
-damage would result to him; that he feared he would not be
able to give the bonds required to retake the property; that
the sheriff's official bond was inadequate to afford him protection; that if he was not allowed to pursue his business peaceably, the injury to him could not be amply compensated in
damages; that the property. was situated in a wooden building, amongst a row of similar buildings, and was insured
for $8000; that, by reason of the premises, the insurance
companies were about to cancel said insurance, and other companies would refuse to carry the risk, by reason of the litigation ; that if the property should be destroyed by fire, great
and irreparable damage would result -to the plaintiff; that
plaintiff was the 3onafide owner of the property levied upon,
having purchased it from Lund & Co., together with the good
will and trade of that firm. for a valuable consideration, and
VOL. CXXXVIII-1 8

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

before purchasing caused the records of the county to be
searched to ascertain whether there were any claims, liens or
incumbrances against the property; and that the records were
clear from any such claims or liens, and'Lund & Co. informed
plaintiff that there was nothing due for the property, but that
the same was free and clear.
The prayer of the bill was for an injunction to restrain the
defendant, or any one acting through or for him, from interfering with the property in any way whatever, and to compel hini to surrender and replace the property which he ha&
already levied upon, and for other and further relief.
Upon the filing of the complaint, accompanied by an affidavit of the plaintiff setting forth a more detailed account of
the injury complained of, the court issued a temporary restraining order. The defendant thereupon filed his answer, denying
all the material averments of the bill, except the one relating
to the levy upon the property. With respect to that averment,
by way of justification, he alleged that, as sheriff of Lincoln
County, he had received certain specified writs of attachment
directed to him, requiring him to attach the property of Lund
& Co., and that, under and by virtue of those writs, he had
levied upon the property described in the complaint as the
property of Lund & Co.; and that it was in fact the property
of Lund & Co., having been transferred to the plaintiff by a
-pretended and fraudulent sale made for the purpose of putting
it beyond the reach of the creditors of Lund & Co., who had
.;sued out the writs of attachment, which sale was known to
plaintiff to be fraudulent.
. The case coming on for trial, the question as to the validity
of the sale from Lund & Co. to the plaintiff was, by order of
the court, submitted to a jury, which found the issue in favor
of the plaintiff, thus- recognizing the validity of the sale.
At the trial the allegations of fraud, malice, oppression and
collusion, on the part of the defendant, were stricken from
th6 complaint, upon motion of plaintiff's attorney, and no evidence was introduced tending to show that the writs of attachment were pretended and informal. The defendant then
moved to dismiss the complaint and action, which motion the

NORTH v. PETERS.
Statement of the Case.

court overruled, and upon 'consideration of the verdict of the
jury, and arguments of counsel, it made-and filed the following
findings of fact and conclusions- of law:
"1. On the 13th day of NoV6e!ber, 1883, one P. M. Lund
was the owner of property described in the plaintiff's complaint.
"2. On said 13th day of November, 1883, said Lund sold"
and conveyed the said property to the plaintiff, and he,
plaintiff, entered into immediate poisession thereof.
"3. That said sale by Lund to Peters, the plaintiff, was
made by Lund for the purpose of putting said property and
proceeds thereof beyond the reach of his (Lund's) creditors
and to defraud said creditors.
"4. That the plaintiff at the time of purchase of said property from said P. M. Lund had no knowledge of Lund's purpose in the disposition of said goods.
"5. -Thatthe defendant is, and at the time of said sale and
transfer of said property was, shdriff of said Lincoln County;
that on the 15th and 16th days of November, 1883, he, the
said defendant, as sheriff aforesaid, levied upon the said property as the property of said Lund, the same then being in the
possession of the plaintiff, under and by virtue of certain warrants of attachment issued out of this court at the suit of
various creditors of said Lund, being the same warrants of
attachment the enforcement of which against said property is
sought to be enjoined in this action.
"6. That at the trial by the jury of the question of fact, as
hereinbefore stated, all the allegations of fraud, malice, oppression and collusion on the part of the defendant were stricken
from the plaintiff's complaint on the motion of plaintiff's attorney.
"i7. That no evidence was adduced that the plaintiff would
suffer any irreparable injury in consequence of the seizure by
the sheriff of said property.
"ConcZu8ion8 of Zoo.

"1. That the verdict of the jury heretofore rendered in this
case on the question of fact, as herein stated, is but an advisory

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

verdict, and should be received and accepted only as such by
the court indetermining the issues in this action.
"2. Under the pleadings and proofs herein the plaintiff is
entitled to the relief demanded in his complaint; that the preliminary injunction heretofore issued should be made perpetual
and final in accordance with the prayer of plaintiff's petition.
Let judgment be entered accordingly."
Judgment was entered in accordance with the findings and
conclusions of law. Afterwards a motion for a new trial was
denied by the court, at which time the court found the following facts and conclusions of law, in addition to those theretofore found, to wit:
"First. That the purchase by plaintiff from P. M. Lund of
the goods and chattels mentioned in the complaint included
the good will of the business heretofore carried on by the said
Lund under the name of P. M. Lund & Co.
"Second. That the consideration for the said sale and transfer from the said P. M. Lund to the plaintiff was the sum of
ten thousand three hundred and eighty dollars, then and there
paid by plaintiff tosaid Lund, and that said consideration was
fairly adequate.
"Third. That at the time of the-seizure by the defendant of
the goods and chattels mentioned in the complaint and composing the former stock of P. M. Lund & Co. the plaintiff was
in possession thereof as the owner, conducting a profitable
business as a retail merchant, and that the acts and threatened
acts of the defendant under and by virtue of the said attachments mentioned and referred to in the pleadings would, unless
restrained by the court, necessarily destroy plaintiff's said business, dud deprive him of the probable profit that might be
realized therefrom, and that it would be extremely difficult to
ascertain or estimate the pecuniary detriment which the plaintiff would sustain thereby.
"Fourth. That the said goods and chattels mentioned in
the complaint and the plaintiff's said business comprised his
entire property and pecuniary resources.
."Fifth. That it is admitted by the pleadings and appears as
a fact that at the time referred to in the complaint the defend-

NTORTH= v. PETERS. -

.271

Argument for Appellant,

ant, as sheriff of Lincoln County, seized the said goods and
chattels under and by virtue of sundry warrants of attachment
sued out against the property of P. M. Lund; that the defendant, as such sheriff, then had in his hands many more such
attachments against the said-Lund which he threatened to
levy upon the said goods and chattels, and that numerous
other creditors of said Lund were then threatening to sue out
and place in the hands of defendant additional warrants of
attachment for the purpose of having the same levied upon
the said goods and chattels as the property of the said Lund.
"Conclusions of law.
"1. That it would be extremely difficult to ascertain the
amount of compensation which would afford the plaintiff adequate relief from the acts done and threatened to be done by
the defendant.
"2. That it is necessary to restrain the acts threatened to
be done by the defendant to prevent a multiplicity of judicial
proceedings.
"3. That the plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded in
the complaint."
An appeal was taken to the Supreme Court of the Territory,
which, on October 9, 1886, rendered a judgment affirming the
-judgment of the court below, without delivering any opinion
in the case. An appeal from that judgment brought the case
here.
.A,. .Enock Totten, (with whom was .Mr. r ederic B. Dodge
on the brief,) for appellant.
I. The court was without power in the premises to make,
long after the trial term, and nearly six months after tie
judgment, additional findings in support of its judgment.
It is conceded that courts have jurisdiction over their records
to make them conform to what was actually done, that where
the records do not speak the truth as to what was done, the
court may amend them and make them conformable to the
truth; and that as to defects in matters of form, judgments.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Appellant.

may be corrected within a reasonable time after their rendition. "Jtna
ns. Co. v. Boon, 95 U. S. 117. This power is
the inherent common law power of the court. It is a power
now generally defined by the practice acts and decisions of
the several States, and it is understood that this court will
adopt the rules established and follow the decisions of state
courts in matters of practice.
The Dakota Code of Civil Procedure provides as follows:
Caldwel's Codes, ยง 5066, 506-7.
"Sec. 266. Upon the trial of a question of fact by the
court its decision must be given in writing and filed with the
clerk within thirty days after the cause is submitted for decision.
"Sec. 267. In giving the decision the facts found and the
conclusions must be separately stated. Judgment upon the
decision must be entered accordingly."
.With respect to these requirements the Territorial Supreme
Court as early as 1874 held: (1) That where a judge in a
cause tried by the court fails to find on all the material issues,
it is such error as will invalidate any judgment rendered
therein. (2) The court cannot after pronouncing judgment
re-open the case and make an additional finding, "that would
in legal effect be no less than sqtting aside the judgment and
rendering a different one." Dole v. Burleigh, 1 Dakota, 227.
That a valid judgment cannot be rendered unless all the material issues are passed on was also held in Holt v. -Fan_ps, 1
Dakota, 206. These decisions were subsequently followed
and approved in Uhlig v. Garrison,2 Dakota, 99.
These points of practice were settled by the Supreme Cour
of the Territory after argument, and thei? adjudication was
necessary in order to determine the cases wherein they arose.
They thus became rules of decision in that jurisdiction, and,
until other or different rules are declared, they must be 'deemed
of binding force. They have never been -by any reported
decision of that court either overruled or criticised.
II. There existed a plain, adequate and complete remedy at
law.
The bill of complaint in the case at bar was framed to fit

NORTH v. PETERS.
Argument for Appellant.

the case of Watson v. Sutherland, 5 Wall. 74, and its averments are set in nearly the precise language there used. The
facts there found in support of the jurisdiction were as follows,
to wit: (1) That Sutherland was the bona JF& owner of the
goods levied upon; (2) That he purchased these goods for
the business of the current season, and that they were not all
paid for; (3) That his only means of payment was through
his sales; (4) That he was a young man recently engaged iir
business; (5) That he had succeeded in establishing a merchantable trade; and (6) That if sale of the goods was delayed,
the effect would be to break up his business, destroy his credit
and render him insolvent.
The facts in Peters' case do not run on parallel lines. He did
not purchase the stock on credit, was not dependent on immediate sales to meet maturing bills. The goods for aught that is
found, were worth as much to him at one time as another, and
at one place as another. He had not acquired credit as a merchant, nor built up a trade upon which he could depend: at
the most he was threatened with loss of "probable profits."
In the absence of facts showing the likelihood and value of
profits, it must be presumed in equity, as in law, that interest
on the value of the goods from the time of the taking will
equal or compensate the loss of profits.
The only remedy at law which the court recognized as open
to the plaintiff below in Watsrn v. Sutherland, 5 Wall. '14,
was an action for trespass. Under the decisions of the Maryland courts, where the case arose, and under the decisions
of this court, replevin against the marshal could not have
been maintained. Powell v. Bradlee, 9 Gill & Johns. 220,
274; FJreeman v. Howe, 24 How. 450. But replevin can be
maintained against a sheriff, and would: have furnished a
remedy plain, adequate and complete, and more 'practical an&
efficient than the remedy in equity. Long v. BarNr, 85 Illinois, 431 ; Yomlinson v. Rubio, 16 Californi'a, 203; Baker v.
.inehkard, 11 West Va. 238; .Davidson v. Floyd, 15 Florida,
667; Bouldin v. Alexander, 7 T. B. Mon. 425; Johnson v.
Connecticut Bank, 21 Connecticut, 148.
III. There was no pro'per party defendant of record'against

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

whom the court had jurisdiction to proceed. In the absence
of charges of fraud, malice or collusion, a public ministerial
officer cannot be made a party to an action for an injunction
to restrain the enforcement of a judgment or other process of a
court. If so made, no decree 'can be taken against him. Ed-

ney v. King, 4 Ired. Eq. 465 ; Lacay v. Curti&, 6 Ired. Eq.
199; HZowell v..Foster, 122 Illinois, 276; Stephens v. Forsyth,
14 Penn. St. 67; Olin v. Hungerford, 10 Ohio, 268; Allen v.
.Medill, 14 Ohio, 445; Montgomery v. Whitworth, 1 Tenn. Ch.
174; Bloomstein v. Brien, 2 Tenn. Ch.778; Holmes v. Chester, 11 C. E. Green (26 1N. J. Eq.) 79, 80.
-M.J.W. Taylor for appellee.
XMR. JusThce LAY-A, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

There are thirty-two assignments of error found in the
record, which it is not necessary to discuss in detail.
We are of opinion that the findings of fact by the District
Court, taken in connection with the verdict of the jqry upon
the sole issue submitted to it, entitled the appellee to the equitable relief sought, and are sufficient to sustain the judgment
of the Supreme Court of the Territory. They fully establish
the allegations of the complaint, that the appellee, Peters, was
the true owner of the stock of merchandise, levied upon and
seized as the property of P. Lf. Lund & Co.; that he bought
the stock from Lund & Co., paying the adequate consideration of $10,000, and upwards, for the entire stock, including
the good-will of the business carried on by Lund & Co. at the
same stand; that, though Lund & Co. sold the stock for the
purpose of defrauding their creditors, the appellee was no
party to the fraud, and had no knowledge of the purpose of
Lund & Co. in disposing of said stock and business; that, at
the time the appellant, North, as sheriff of the county of
Lincoln, levied upon the goods and merchandise, the appellee
was in possession of them, and was conducting a profitable
business; that the acts of the sheriff, in levying upon and seiz-

NORTH v. PETERS.
Opinion of the Court.

ing the property, by virtue of the writs of attachment, described
in the complaint, and the threatened acts, under and by virtue
of other writs, unless restrained by the court, would have
destroyed the appellee's business; that it would be extremely
difficult to ascertain or estimate the pecuniary injury the
appellee would sustain; that the merchandise and the business
above mentioned comprised all the property owned by the
appellee, and all his pecuniary resources; that the appellant,
North, as sheriff of Lincoln County, at the time the suit was
brought, had in his hands a large number of writs of attachment, which he threatened to levy upon the merchandise
belonging to the appellee; and that creditors of P. M4. Lund
& Co. were about to sue out writs of attachment, and place
them in defendant's bands to be levied on the same property.
Upon these facts the judgment of the Supreme Court of the
Territory must be affirmed, unless the appellant can show
some legal ground for making this particular case an exception
to the general rules upon the subject of equitable relief.
The main ground relied on by the appellant is, that the
relief sought should be refused, because the appellee had a
plain, adequate and complete remedy at law, to wit, either the
action of trespass or replevin. The answer to this is, that the
measure of damages in an action of trespass could not have
exceeded the value of the property seized, with interest thereon
from the date of the seizure; and that the only remedy in an
action of replevin would have been limited to a recovery of
the property, and damages for its detention, with costs. It
does not need argument to show that neither of these actions
would afford as complete, prompt and efficient a remedy for
the destruction of the business which, with the goods levied
upon, constituted the appellee's entire estate and pecuniary
resources, as would be furnished by a court of equity in preventing such an injury. The case of Matson v. Sutherland, 5
Wall. 74, -78, 79, is, in its material facts, similar to this case.
In that case a bill was filed by one Sutherland to enjoin the
further prosecution of certain writs of fweri facis levied by
the sheriff, Watson, on a lot of goods claimed to belong exclusively to the plaintiff, so as to prevent what the plaintiff

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

alleged to be an irreparable injury, to wit, the ruin of his
business as a merchant. The defence set up was, as in this
case, that the injunction should have been refused, be~ause the
action of trespass furnished a complete and adequate remedy
at law. In answer, the court, Mr. Justice Davis delivering
the opinion, said: "How could Sutherland be compensated at
law, for the injuries he would suffer, should the grievances of
which he complains be consummated?

. . . Commercial

ruin to Sutherland might, therefore, be the effect of closing
his store and selling his goods, and yet the common law fail to
reach the mischief. To prevent a consequence like this, a
court of equity steps in, arrests the proceedings in limine;
brings the parties before it; hears their allegations and proofs,
and decrees, either that the proceedings shall be unrestrained,
or else perpetually enjoined."
It is further argued by the appellant that the District Court,
after making and filing the first findings of fact and conclusions of law, and ordering, judgment thereon, (which was duly
entered,) had not the power, after the term had closed, to
make additional findings in support of its judgment, upon a.
motion for a new trial. We think this point not well taken.
The appellant, in support of his motion for a new trial, claimed
that the court had omitted to find upon certain material issues
in the case. The court refused to grant the motion, and made
additional findings, more explicitly responsive to the questions presented by the pleadings, We are of opinion that the
court, if, in the consideration of such a motion, it considers
that material findings have been omitted or imperfectly stated,
has authority to make such additional findings as will cure the
omission, so that its record will be amended, and made to conform to the truth. When the court below made its decree, it
made a concurrent order giving the defendant (the appellant)
until a certain day within which to prepare and serve his
motion for a new trial. The record, therefore, had not passed
out of the control of the court by appeal when those additional
findings were made.
. Counsel for appellant is mistaken in saying that the rule of
practice, under the Dakota Code of Civil Procedure (secs. 266,

NORTH v. PETERS.
Opinion of the Court.

267), as established by the decisions of the Supreme Court of
that Territory, does not allow the trial court to make additional findings after judgment has been ordered and entered.
The cases cited are inapplicable and do not sustain the position assumed. None of them were cases in which the trial
court made additional findings, and that question was not
presented in any of them. In the case of Dole v. Burleigh,
1 Dakota, 227, on which counsel for appellant mainly relies,
the trial court omitted to find upon a material issue presented
by the pleadings, but it made no additional findings. The
court laid down and applied the long-established principle, nowhere controverted, that the findings of fact by a court, like
a special verdict, must decide every point in issue, and that the
omission to find any material fact in issue is an error which
invalidates the judgment. A remark of the judge, in his
opinion, favoring the view taken by appellant is obiter, and
contrary to adjudged cases, on like questions, in the highest
courts of those States whose statutory provisions respecting
the trial by the court of questions of fact correspond in almost
every particular with ยง 266, 267 of the Dakota Code, supra.
Those authorities hold that the omission to file findings of
fact, judgment having been entered, is an irregularity which
the court has authority to cure by supplying additional amendments until an appeal is taken, or a bill of exceptions is settled
and~signed by the judge. Williams v. Ey, 13 Wisconsin, 1;
Pratalongo v. .arco, 47 California, 378; Ogburn v. Conner,
46 California, 346; Bosguett v. Crane, 51 California, 505;
HZayes v. W7etherbee, 60 California, 8.96; Swanstrom v. Marvin,
38 Mlinnesota, 359; Vermule v. Shaw, 4 California, 214.
A further ground relied on by the appellant is, that there
was no proper party defendant of record against whom the
court had jurisdiction to proceed; and that the defendant
below, acting in the capacity of sheriff, had no material interest in the subject matter of the suit, and was not, therefore,
the proper defendant thereto. We think there is no merit in
this proposition.
By the terms of the writs of attachment the sheriff was
commanded to levy upon and attach personal property belong-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of 'the Court.

ing to P. M. Lund & Co. Those writs did not authorize him
to seize the property of any other person; and when he did
seize other property he became a trespasser, and was not
protected by the law. The rule in this respect was tersely
stated by Mr. Justice Miller, who delivered the opinion of the
court in Buck v. Colbath, 3 Wall.334, 343, 344. Speaking of
the variety of writs, orders, or processes of the court, under
which property may be seized by an officer, the learned justice divided them into two general classes: (1) "Those in
which the process or order of the court describes the property
to be seized, and which contain a direct command to the
officer to take possession of that particular property;" and,
(2), "Those in which the officer is directed to levy the process
upon property of one of the parties to the litigation, sufficient
to satisfy the demand against him, without describing any
specific property to be thus taken." Referring to the second
class he said: "In the other class of writs to which we have
referred, the officer has a very large and important field for the
exercise of his judgment and discretion. First,in ascertaining that the property on which he proposes to levy, is the
property of the person against whom the writ is directed;
secondly, that it is property which, by law, is subject to
be taken under the writ; and, thirdly, as to the quantity of
such property necessary to be seized in the case in hand. In
all these particulars he is bound to exercise his own judgment,
and is legally responsible to any person for the consequences
of any error or mistake in its exercise to his prejudice. He
is so liable to plaintiff, to defendant, or to any third person
whom his erroneous action in the premises may injure. And
what is more important to our present inquiry, the court can
afford hin no protection against the parties so injured; for
the court is in nowise responsible for the manner in which he
exercises that discretion which the law reposes in him, and in
no one else." See also Cooley on Torts, 396.
In a case where the officer has exceeded his authority, he
may be proceeded against either by an action for damages, if
such remedy be sufficient, or by a writ of injunction to restrain the continued wrongdoing; and it is not essential that

KAUFFMfAN v. WOOTTERS.
Counsel for Parties

the plaintiffs in the writs be joined as parties defendant, where,
as in this case, it does not appear, either from the pleadings or
the proofs, that they advised or directed the sheriff to seize

the particular property, as the property of their judgment
debtor. In our opinion injunction was the proper remedy, the
remedy at law being wholly inadequate to prevent or repair
the injuries set forth in the pleadings, and stated in the findings of the court.
We have not deemed it necessary to discuss the jurisdictional question raised by the appellee. It is clear that the
appeal in this case was allowed by the proper court; that all
the proceedings relative to the perfecting of an appeal were
taken within two years from the date of entering the judgment of the court below; and that the enabling act admitting the two Dakotas, Montana and Washington Territories
as States authorizes us to proceed to hear and determine cases
of this character.
JAdgment alprmed.

KAUFFMAN v. WOOTTERS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 1360. Submitted January 5, 1891. -Decided

February 2, 1891.

State legislation simply forbidding the defendant to come into court and
challenge the validity of service upon him in a personal action, without
surrendering himself to the jurisdiction of the court, but which does not
attempt to restrain him from fully protecting his person, his property
and his rights against any attempt to enforce a judgment rendered without due process of law, is not in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
York v. Texas, 137 U. S. 15, affirmed and applied.

Tins was a motion to dismiss or affirm.
in the opinion.

The case is stated

.Mr. A. H. Garlandand .Xr.H. J. Mray for the motion.

.M

. f.. Waul opposing.

