LOUISVILLE &c. RAILROAD C0

v. WILSON.

601

Statement of the Case.

"Undoubtedly," says Chief Justice Taney, "the defendant, in
pleading his discharge under the bankrupt law, claimed a right
or exemption under a law of Congress. But in order to give
jurisdiction, something morb-is necessary; the judgment of the
state court must be against the right claimed." Like rulings
were made in Gordonm v. Caldcleugh, 3 Cranch, 268; Strader
v. Baldwin, 9 How. 261; Burke v. Gaines, 19 How. 388;
Hale v. Gaines, 22 How. 144; Reddall v. Bryan, 24: How.
420; and ]Ryan v. Thomas, - Wall: 603.
None of the cases cited by the relator involve the question
.here presented, and the writ of error must be
Dismissedfor the want of jurisdiction.

LOUISVILLE, EVANSVILLE AND ST. LOUIS RAILROAD COMPANY v. WILSON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 153. Argued January 21,1891.-Decided March 2.1891.

Some months after the sale of a railroad under foreclosure, and its surrender by the receiver to the corporation organized to receive it, the sale
being made with a provision that the purchaser should pay all debts adjudged to be superior in equity to the deeds of trust foreclosed, an order
was made giving such priority to the appellee. Held, that an appeal lay
in favor of the purchaser.
The term "wages of employ~s," as used in an order directing the payment
of certain classes of debts out of the proceeds of the sale of a railroad
under foreclosure, in preference to the secured liens, does not include
the services of counsel employed for special purposes.
Services of an attorney in securing payment to the receiver of a railroad of
rent due for property of the railroad company and the return of the
property, are entitled to priority of payment over the secured liens on
a sale of the road under foreclosure of a mortgage upon it.
The other claims of the appellee, not being rendered for the benefit of the
security holders, are not-entitled to such Priority.

Ox the 30th day of December, 1884, Isaac T. Burr filed in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern Dis-

501.01

6CTOBER TERflM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

trict of Illinois his bill of complaint against the Louisville,
Evansville and St. Louis Railway Company; the Mercantile
Trust Company of New York, trustee; Noble C. Butler, trustee; and Robert A. Watts;trustee. The bill set forth the fact.
tha.t the complainant was a judgment creditor -of the railway
company; and the others, trustees in deeds of trust given by
,the company. Subsequently, a cross-bill was filed by two of
the trustees. ' The original bill, prayed' the appointment, of
a receiver, and on the 3d day of January, 1885, George F.
Evans was appointed receiver and took possession of the railway property. In, the order of appointment was' this provision: "It is further ordered, adjudged aid decreed'tbat,. the
said receiver, out of the in6me tlat shall come into his hands
,from the operation of the said railway or otherwise, do pro-.
ceed to pay all' just claims and accounts for labor, material,
supplies, salaries of officers and wages of employ&s that may
have been earned-or furnished within six months prior'to
January 1, 1885, and all.'taxes." The outcome of the litigation was the sale of the ioad under, a decree of forecldsure of.
the deeds of trust. This decree was entered April 23, 1886.
A similar decree of sald was entered in the Circuit Court of'
the United States for the District of Indiana, in which court,
also, foreclosure proceedings were had, the road extending
through both districts. On the 9th df June, 1886, the property was sold in obedience to these decrees. On the 22d of
July, 1886, this sale was confirmed. On the 8th of O6tober,
1886, an order was entered in-'the Circuit Court in the Indiana
District, directing the receiver to surrender the possession of
the property sold to the Louisville, Evansville and St. Louis
Railroad Company a corporation organized .by.- the parties
interested in- the purchase, and to which the purchasers had
conveyed all their rights under their purchase. This order
was not entered in the Illinois.Circuit Court at that time.; but,
nevertheless, on the 1fth of October, 1886, the- receiver surrendered the entire property to the new corporation. in the'
order directing this surrender were provisions 'for th.epayment
by the new corporation of all claims which might bg adjudged
superior in equity to the deeds of trust foreclosed, .w1th the

LOUISVILLE &c. RAILROAD CO. v. WILSON.

503

Statement of the Case.

right to retake possession of the property if payment was not
made, and with the further right to the new corporation to
appeal from any adjudication of such claims. Appellee intervened in the Illinois Circuit Court, and on the 10th day of August, 1887, an order was entered adjudging that he be allowed
$7650. This order also provided: "And the court does further
order, adjudge and decree that the receiver, George F. Evans,
forthwith pay the same to the said petitioner, together with
the costs of the proceedings, out of any money in his hands
arising from the operation of the said railway as such receiver,
and, if that is insufficient, then that the same be paid, prior to
the bonded debt, out of the proceeds of the sale of the mortgaged premises." On the 29th of August, 1887, the order
entered in the Indiana Circuit Court, on October 8, 1886, was,
by the direction of the Circuit Judge, entered in the Illinois
Circuit Court as of the date of October 8, 1886, and on the
same day an order was entered reciting the appearance of the
receiver; that he showed to the court that he had surrendered
possession on the 11th of October, 1886; and, in addition,
providing, "in consideration thereof, and of the decree herein
entered on August 10,1887, it is ordered, adjudged and decreed
that the sum of seven thousand six hundred and fifty dollars,
allowed the intervenor, Bluford Wilson, together with the
costs incurred on his intervention, is a lien and charge upon
the earnings of the said property while in the hands of the
receiver, and upon the proceeds of sale of the mortgaged
premises, prior and superior to the deeds of trust of June 1,
1881, and March 1, 1882, and it is thereupon adjudged, ordered
and decreed that the Louisville, Evansville ard St. Louis Railroad Company shall, within twenty days from this date, pay
to the said intervenor or into court for him the said sum of
seven thousand six hundred and fifty dollars, ($7650,) with
interest from this day, and the costs of the said intqrvenor.
upon this intervention." The order also gave an appeal to
the new corporation, and granted a supersedeas on the filing of
a bond in the penalty of ten thousand dollars. This bond was
filed, and the appeal perfected. The appeal was taken from
the order of August 29.

OCTOBER TERVf, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

-Mr. Alexander P. .u p ry for appellant. .Mr. J . Iglekart, 21r. Edwin .Taylor and .Mr. George 3. Davie were with
him on the brief.
Mr. Bluford Tilson in person for appellee.

MR. JUSTIOE BREwnn delivered the opinion of the court.
We think the appeal was properly taken. At the time the
order of August 10 was entered, the receiver was not in possession; he had surrendered the property more than nine
months prior thereto. When he surrendered the property, he
closed up his receivership. A decree against him was not personal, but official. it was not the contemplation of the court
that any personal liability should be cast upon him. He not
only had no railroad'funds or property in his possession, out
of which to pay this allowance, but he had no right to retake
that which he had surrendered. The reservation made in the
order entered in the Indiana court, of the right of the court
to retake possession of the property surrendered, conferred no
rights on the receiver; it was simply a reservation to the
court, which might, under that reservation, by the old or a
new receiver, at any time retake possession when its allowances
within the scope of the order of surrender were not paid. So,
the order of August 10 was a mistake. It neither bound the
appellant nor the property which it had received. It was not
a purchaser of the railroad property; and did not become,
until August 29, a party to the record in the Illinois court. It
is true that, on August 29, the Circuit Judge, directing the
entry in the -Illinois court of the order made nearly a year
before in the Indiana court, directed that it should be entered
as of August 8, 1886, the date of its entry in the Indiana Circuit Court; but such nunc _pro tunc entry, while proper for
.the protection of the receiver, could not antedate the subjection of the new corporation to the orders and decrees of the
Illinois Circuit Court. It could justly say, that it was not a
party to the proceedings in that court until the entry of August 29, 1887. There was no misunderstanding, no misrepresentation, no deceit, in these matters. Immediately, on the

LOUISVILLE &c. RAILROAD CO. v. WILSON.

5tj5

Opinion of the Court.

entry of this order of August 29, a transcript of the order
from the Indiana Circuit Court, a new decree in favor of the
intervenor was entered, a decree for the first time binding the
appellant. This was not an order in execution, merely, of
the former decree, such as those noticed in the case of Trust
ComPany v. Grant Locomotive Works, 135 U. S. 207; but it
was the first order against and binding the appellant., We
are, therefore, compelled to notice the merits of this allowance.
The allowance to the appellant was for three matters. He
does not sue for services as general counsel of the mortgagor
company, or for salary as an officer of that company. With
respect to the provision in the order of appointment, he claims
to come under the descriptive words therein used, "wages of
employ~s." If that fails him, then he appeals to the general
equity powers of the court to compensate him as one whose
services were beneficial to the security holders. On the meaning of the words "wages of employ~s," he cites the case of
Gurney v. Atlantic and Great Western Railway Con any, 58
N. Y. 358, in which an order directing the receiver of a railway company, thereby appointed, to pay debts "owing to the
laborers and employ~s" for labor and services, was held broad
enough to include a debt due to Hon. Jeremiah S. Black, for
professional services as counsel. Without criticising that decision, or noticing the special circumstances which seemed in the
judgment of that court to justify the inclusion of professional
services within the descriptive words of the appointment, we
are of the opinion that the term " wages of employ~s," as used
in the order now under consideration, does not include the services of counsel employed for special purposes. Yane v. Neweomle, 132 U. S. 220, 237.
The terms "officers" and "employ~s" both, alike, refer to
those in regular and continual service. Within the ordinary
acceptation of the terms, one who is engaged to render service
in a particular transaction is neither an officer nor an employ6.
They imply continuity of service, and exclude those employed
for a special and single transaction. An attorney of an individual, retained for a single suit, is not his employ6. It is
true, he has engaged to render services; but his engagement is

OCTOBER TERMI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

The serrather that of a contractor than that of an employ.
vices of appellee, therefore, did not come within the order
appointing the receiver. We would not be understood as
asserting, even by implication, that the terms of an order of
appointment of a receiver vest in all claimants an absolute
right as against the security holders. Such terms may be, and
doubtless are, a protection to the receiver; and what he does
and pays within those terms may be, thereafter, beyond the
challenge of any party interested in the property. But when
he has not acted, and the question is presented to the court as
to the liability of the property for any claim, the court is not
foreclosed by the order of appointment, but may consider and
determine equitably the extent of liability of the property to
such claim, and what its rights of priority may be. Hence, as
the receiver did not pay this claim, the parties in interest may
rightfully challenge its priority, even if it were within the very
letter of the order of appointment of the receiver.
What were the services for which the appellee made his
claim? and were they so beneficial to the security holders that
a court of equity might justly give them priority? And the
question, it will be borne in mind, is not, whether out of the
earnings of the road such claims are payable, but whether,
where there are no surplus earnings, they may be paid out of
the corpus of the property in preference to secured liens.
The first matter is this: Prior to the appointment of a receiver the railway company feased to the Illinois Midland
Railway Company certain engines. When the latter road
passed into the hands of a receiver intervenor was employed
to get the engines back, and rental for their use. In this service he secured an allowance against its receiver for $1500,
upon which $1340.13 was paid, and paid after the receiver in
this case was in possession. The only testimony as to the
value of such service fixed it at $300. Part of such service
was rendered more than six months prior to the appointment
of a receiver in this case; but, apparently, the important part
wvithin such time. This recovery enured to the benefit of the
security holders, as placing so much more money in the hands
of the receiver for the purpose of discharging obligations

LOUISVILLE &c. RAILROAD CO. v. WILSON.

507

Opinion of the Court.

against the company payable before the bonds. We think it
may fairly be held that the party who takes the benefit of such
a service ought to pay for it; and that equity may properly
decree payment therefor. As justly remarked by Lord Kenyon
in Read v. Duffer, 6 T. R. 361, "the principle has long been
settled that a party should not run away with the fruits of a
cause without satisfying the legal demands of his attorney, by
whose industry and expense these fruits were obtained." In
R2enick v. Ludingtn, 16 W. Virginia, 378, 392, it is said:
"The lien (even in cases of quantum meruit) is in the nature
of an equitable lien, (3 Cooper's Tenn. Ch. 23,) and is based on
the natural equity that the plaintiff ought not to be allowed to
appropriate the whole of a judgment in his favor without paying thereout for the services of his attorney in obtaining such
judgment." See also .Jfahone v. Southern Tel. Co., 33 Fed.
iRep. 702, and In re Paschal,10 Wall. 483. We think, therefore, there was no impropriety in allowing intervenor three
hundred dollars for these services.
The second item of intervenor's claim is this: The railroad
company was not paying operating expenses and interest; it
was running behind. Certain parties interested in and officers
of the road advanced moneys to continue its operation and
prevent foreclosure proceedings. After advancing a considerable sum,' they became anxious to secure their advances, and
upon the intervenor's advice they took assignments of payrolls, so as to bring them within the scope of the rulings of
this court, as to preferential payment of employes, and on
foreclosure these claims, thus evidenced and secured, were
recognized and given equality of right with the security holders in the reorganization scheme. One of the witnesses as to
the value of these services testified that they were worth five
thousand dollars, adding, "of course, I mean that such fees
should be paid by the parties b~nefited." That states the
true equities of the case. The parties who, acting under the
intervenor's advice, took such steps as to secure their advances, and thereby obtained equality of interest with the lien
holders, should pay him. They who are compelled to let
third parties into an equality with themselves in the matter

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

of security, ought not to be compelled to pay counsel who
brought about such equality. As happily said by counsel for
appellant: "This is taking the funds belonging to a prior
mortgagee to pay cotinsel to devise a scheme by which the
subsequent lender of money is preferred before him."
The remaining matter is this: The Louisville, Evansville
and St. Louis Railway Company was a corporation made up
by the consolidation of the Louisville, New Albany and St.
Louis Railroad Company and the Evansville, Rockport and
Eastern Railway Company. At the time of the consolidation
there was on the first-named property a deed of trust of three
n3illions of dollars, and on the latter one of nine hundred
thousand dollars. After consolidation a new deed of trust for
one million of dollars was executed on the entire property.
Fearing that the trustee in the deed of trust on the Evansville,
Rockport and Eastern Railway Company might take possession of that division, intervenor was employed to prevent such
action, and he commenced suits to enjoin the trustee therefrom. He also successfully negotiated with the bondholders,
and thus preserved the unity of operation and control until
the commencement of the proceedings in this suit, whereby
the entire property was taken possession of and operated by
a single receiver, and subsequently sold and passed into the
new corporation. At the sale both divisions were sold. The
Evansville division being sold subject to the deed of trust of
nine hundred thousand dollars, brought only twenty thousand
dollars, to be applied on the second lien -the one given by
the consolidated company.
The services thus rendered were at the instance of the railroad company; and it is not perceived how services rendered
at its instance to preserve control of that portion of its road
not covered by the first lien, can be considered as services to
the holders of bonds secured by that lien. The primary object
of such services was the benefit of the railroad company. It
was to enable it to retain the control and receive the earnings
of as large an extent of the road as possible. As such services
did not secure any additional interest to the lien holders-in
fact, they advanced the moneys due for interest on the Evans-

KNEELAND v. AMERICAN LOAN AND TRUST CO.

509

Syllabus.

ville first mortgage -it
seems inequitable that they should be
held responsible and be compelled to pay the party employed
by the railroad company. It cannot be that security holders
are liable, either in law or in equity, for the expenses incurred
by their debtor in carrying into effect a scheme which the
latter believes will enable it to pay its interest to them; but
which, in fact, does not accomplish such result. It was the
debtor's act; and if it failed of accomplishing hoped-for
results, the party employed must look to his employer alone
for compensation, and cannot charge the bondholders therefor, on the theory that it was believed that it might enure to
their ultimate benefit. In this matter, also, the allowance to
the intervenor as against the security holders, represented by
the appellant, was unwarranted.
The decree, therefore, will be reversed, and the case remanded
with instructions to allow the intervenor three hundred
dollmv. CoWts in this court will be divided.

KNEELAND v. AMERICAN LOAN AND TRUST
COMPANY.
KNEELAND v. BALLOU.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT
THE

OF

THE

UNITED

STATES FOR

DISTRICT OF INDIANA.

Nos. 1539, 1540. Argued January 29, 30,1891.-Decided March 2, 1891.

The decree in this case in the court below, founded on the report of a master, awarded to the complainant the recovery of rental for five months,
separately stated. In this respect the decree was sustained here, (136
U. S. 89,) but it was reversed and the cause remanded, in order to have
the computation made, after inquiry into special subjects indicated in
the mandate. The Circuit Court, after determining the special matters,
regarded the matter of the time and amounts of the r~ntal as settled by
the former decree and as sustained by this court, and awarded interest
on the amounts from the date of the former decree. Held, that there was
no error in this; that the remanding of the cause did not reopen the whole
subject of the accounts, but, on the contrary, contemplated no new investigation as to past matters.
Counsel should use respectful language, both in brief and in oral arguments.

