OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

paid to the agent of the town,) estops the corporation from
pleading a want of authority in the municipality to issue the
instruments sued on. The original act of issuing the bonds
for sale was not only unauthorized by law, but in disregard of.
its requirements, and no subsequent act of the town trustees
could make it valid. Whether it could be a circumstance in
favor of the equitable right of the holders of the bonds to
recover from the municipality the money which they represent
is a question not here for consideration. The suit was upon
the bonds themselves, and for the reasons above stated we hold
that there can be no recovery upon them.
Judgment afflrmed.
MRii. JUSTICE BROWN was not a member of the court when
this case was argued, and took no part in its decision.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and ilp. JUSTICE: BREWER were not present at the argument, and took no part in the decision.

ANDERSON v. WATT.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTrHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 138. Argued January 8, 1891.-Decided March 2, 1891.

Since the passage of the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470, if it appear
from the pleadings and proofs, taken together, that the defendants are
citizens of the United States, and reside, in the sense Qf having their permanent domicil, in the State of which the complainants are citizens, (or
that each of the indispensable adverse parties is not competent to sue or
liable to be sued therein,) the Circuit Court cannot maintain cognizance
of the suit; and the inquiry is determined by the condition of the parties
at the commencement of the suit.
The husband of a married woman is a necessary party in Florida to a suit
in equity to foreclose a mortgage 'upon real estate owned by her there;
and although he be not named in the bill as defendant he may appear
at the hearing with the consent of all parties, and in this case the objection of want of consent cannot be taken.

ANDERSON v. WATT.
Statement of the Case.
The place where a person lives is taken to be his domicil until facts adduced
establish the contrary.
A domicil, once acquired, is presumed to continue until it is shown to have
been changed.
The domicil of the husband is the domicil of his wife, although she may be
residing in another place, and even when she may be living apart from
her husband without sufficient cause.

Tnis was a bill filed on the 25th day of August, 1885, by
Gustavus W. Faber and James S. Watt, describing themselves
as "both of the city and State of INew York and citizens of
the State of New York, executors of the last will of James
Symington, deceased, late of the State of New York," as such
executors, against "J. 0. Anderson, of Orlando, Orange
County, Florida, a citizen of the State of Florida, as the administrator of Edward J. Wilson, deceased, and Thomas Emmett Wilson and Sarah J. Davis, both of Sylvan Lake, Orange
County, Florida, citizens of the State of Florida," for the foreclosure, by sale of the property, of a mortgage given by
Edward J. Wilson to James Symington, August 28, 1875, and
recorded May 3, 1876, on certain real estate in Orange County,
Florida.
Anderson and Wilson demurred to the bill, and assigned -as
one of the causes of demurrer that the bill did not "sufficiently
show the authority of complainants to bring this suit as the
executors of James Symington, deceased.' Mrs. Davis filed a
verified plea, averring that the executors had been discharged,
and also that she, "before and at the time of the filing -of the
said bill, was, and now is, under the coverture of one George
W. Davis, who is still living, to wit, in the city and State of
New York," and praying judgment, and to be hence dismissed.
December 26, the plea and demurrer were severally set
down for hearing by the solicitors for the complainants.
Copies of Symington's wilI, the proofs on its presentation for
probate, the order admitting to probate, and the letters testamentary, duly exemplified, were subsequently filed, and the
demurrer overruled. Defendants Anderson and Y'l1son answered March 15, 1886, setting up a homestead entry of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

land, possession, improvement, commutation and payment by
one Earnest; the conveyance by him to E. J. Wilson by deed
dated March 15, 1871, and recorded November 28, 1676; deed
of E. J. Wilson of one-half for a valuable consideration, to
Thomas E. Wilson, May 22, 1871, recorded September 11,
1875; actual possession by Thomas E. and his grantee from
May 22, 1871, to the present time; issue of the patent April
1 0, 1875, to E. J. Wilson, recorded November 24, 1879; large
advances by Thomas E. prior to the Symington mortgage, for
the benefit of the land, in excess of his share; and valuable
improvements made thereon by himself and his grantee.
I The answer further averred that E. J. Wilson, who resided
in New York, died there in April, 1876; that the taxes upon
the undivided half interest belonging to E. J. Wilson's estate
were not paid for the years 1876 and 1877; that the heirs and
devisees would have nothing to do with the affairs of the estate,
and Symington took no steps and made no sign; that the
undivided half was sold January 8, 1878, for the taxes, and
defendant Thomas E. became the purchaser and received a
deed January 16, 1879, as by statute prescribed, which was
duly recorded that day; that he and his grantee had remained
*infull, quiet and peaceable possession of said undivided half
from thence hitherto, and no suit had been commenced to set
aside said tax deed or recover possession; and that the .statu.ipry bar was complete.
It was further alleged that on the 13th of October, 1879,
defendant Wilson sold the land to Sarah J. Davis, wife of
George W. Davis, of the city of New York, for $8000, $2000
cash and $6000 on time, secured by a mortgage back, and con-veyed it to her by warranty deed in fee simple, which deed
was recorded November 24, 1879. Defendant Wilson further
-answered that Mrs. Davis immediately went into the actual
possession of the land, and had continued in such possession
from thence hitherto; and made improvements upon the property to the amount of over $20,000.
Certain .assignments of the purchase-money mortgage to
Mary F. Wilson, of New York, in January and June, 1884,
and duly then recorded, were set forth, as well as a mortgage,

ANDERSON v. WATT.
Statement bf the Case.

by Mr. and Mrs. Davis, to D. Appleton & Co., made and
recorded in 1884.
May 3, 1886, an answer, sworn to by defendant Sarah I.
Davis, entitled as "the answer of Sarah J. Davis and George
W. Davis, her husband, two of the defendants above named,
to the bill of complaint exhibited against them by the complainants," signed by "def'ts' sol's," and .purporting throughout to be by "these -defendants," was filed in the case. This
set out the circumstances under which the purchase from
Thomas E. Wilson was made, the consideration, the possession
and improvement of the land, and that by virtue of the conveyance to her and her adverse possession she had acquired
absolute title.
Replications were filed and proofs taken; and on December
20, 1886, the court ordered that the bill be amended by striking out from the address the words "Gustavus W. Faber and
James S. Watt, both of the city and State of :New York and citizens of the State of New York," and inserting therein as follows:
"Gustavus W. Faber, of the city and State of New York and
a citizen of the State of New York, and James S. Watt, a subject of the Kingdiom of Great Britain, temporarily residing in
the city of New York." It was further ordered that "it
appearing to the court that letters testamentary on the estate
of James Symington, deceased, heretofore issued to Gustavus
W. Faber, deceased, one of the complainants herein suing as
one of'the executors of James Symington, deceased, have been
revoked, as is shown by a duly exemplified copy of the records
of the surrogate court of the county of New York, State of
New York, filed herein, it is therefore ordered, adjudged and
decreed, on motion of complainants herein, that this cause
proceed in the name of the said James S. Watt, sole surviving
executor of James -Symington, deceased, and that it be discontinued as to said Gustavus W. Faber, suing as co-executor."
The exemplified copy of the record referred to was filed in the
court, with the amendment, December 21, and showed that on
the 4th of May, 1886, Faber filed a petition in the office of the
surrogate for the county of. New York for a. deci ee revoking
the letters testamentary issfied to him, and, that the order of
revocation was thereupon entered thereon..

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument fsr Appellees.

The cause was heard upon the pleadings and proofs, and at
the hearing the respondent introduced an exemplified copy of
the will of Edward J. Wilson, deceased, the proceedings on its
admission to probate, and the letters testamentary issued to his
executors, May 19, 1876.
January 19, 1887, a decree was entered (by the district
judge holding the Circuit Court) finding: "That the defendant J. C. Anderson, as the administrator of the estate of Ed.ward J. Wilson, deceased, and in his capacity as such administrator, is justly indebted to the complainant as the sole acting
executor of the last will and testament of James Symington,
deceased, in the sum of thirteen thousand ($13,000.00) dollars principal, and ten thousand eight hundred and eighty-seven
z- ($10,887.13) dollars, interest, making in all twenty-three
thousand eight hundred eighty-seven 1 ($23,887.13) dollars,
and that said complainant holds a mortgage lien to secure the
said principal and interest hereby adjudicated and declared in
his favor upon an undivided one-half interest in and to the following lands:" [describing them;] and decreeing a sale in
default of payment. Sale having been made and reported,
exceptions were filed to its confirmation, and overruled. Thereupon an appeal was perfected from the main decree and the
order confirming the sale.
-Yr. J. Hubley Ashton, for appellants.
.M. James Lowndes for appellees.
I. It is assigned for error that the record does not disclose
a controversy within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court.
The original bill set forth a controversy between citizens of
New York on the one hand and citizens of the State of Florida
on the other. Over such a controversy the Circuit Court had
jurisdiction.
The bill was amended on February 20, 1SS6, by striking out
the allegation that the complainant Watt was a citizen of New
York, and by inserting the allegation that he was a subject of
the Kingdom of (reat Britain, and by striking out Gustavus

ANDERSON v. WATT.
Argument for Appellees.

W. Faber as a complainant. These amendments were simultaneous. On the face of the amended bill the controversy was
between a subject of a foreign State and citizens of a State.
This was a controversy within the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court. So far, therefore, as the record is concerned, the Circuit Court appeared to have jurisdiction of the suit throughoutits course.
But it is argued that in point of fact the Circuit Court had
not jurisdiction of the cause. In support of this view it is
urged that Mrs. Davis was not a citizen of Florida at the time
the action was begun.
The answer to this is, 1st, that it is not averred in the record
that she was not a citizen of Florida; 2d, that it is not proved
that she was not a citizen of Florida; 3d, that if it had been
shown that she was not a citizen of Florida but a citizen of
New York, this fact would not have defeated the jurisdiction.
(1) It was alleged in the bill that Sarah J. Davis was a citizen of the State of Florida. It was open to her to deny this
fact by plea, and if the plea was sustained, the Circuit Court
was without jurisdiction as the record then stood. Instead of
pleading that she was not a citizen of Florida, Mrs. .Davis filed
a plea that her husband is still living, to wit, in the city and
State of New York.
This plea is both irregular and insufficient. It is not accompanied by the certificate of counsel or the affidavit of the
defendant (that it was not interposed for delay) which are
required by the 31st Rule in Equity. It speaks as of its date
(December 7,1885,) and not as of the commencement of the
suit (August 25, 1885.) 3Thllen -v. Torrance, 9 Wheat. 537.
Assuming the citizenship of Mrs. Davis to be in law that ot
her husband, the citizenship of the latter is not averred. The
allegation that he'is living in New York is not equivalent to
an allegation that she is a citizen of New York. Residence
and citizenship are not synonymous. Robertson v. Cease, 97
U. S. 646; Everhart v. Huntsville College, 120 U. S.223;
-Yenard v. Goggan, 121. U. S.253. The averment that a
party has a "fixed and permanent doniicil" in a State is not
equivalent to an averment-of his citizenship in that State.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Appellees.

Brown, v. Xeene, 8 Pet. 112. There is no difference in meaning between the words "to reside" and "to live" (i.e., in a
place). - Webster's Dictionary, s.v. live; Worcester's Dictionary, s.v. live; Century Dictionary, s.v. live.
(2) Inasmuch as the plea did not aver that Mrs. Davis was
a citizen of New York, or that her husband was a citizen of
New York, those facts were not admitted by setting down the
bill for hearing.
(3) But even if it had been shown that Mrs. Davis was a
citizen of lNew York, the jurisdiction would not have been
defeated. The court had jurisdiction of the controversy, and
the supposed defects could have been cured by amendment.
Conolly v. Taylor, 2 Pet. 556; Carneal v. Banks, iO Wheat.
181. This has been done. The allegation in' the amended
bill that Watt was a citizen of Great Britain, not having been
denied, must be taken to be true.
II. It is argued that the husband of Mrs. Davis and D.
Appleton & Co. are necessary parties.
(1)' The 53d Rule in Equity is as follows: "If a defendant
shall, at the hearing of a cause, object that the suit is defective for want of parties, not having by plea or answer taken
the objection and therein specified by name or description the
parties to whom the objection applies, the court (if it shall
think fit) shall be at liberty to make a decree saving the
rights of the absent, parties." This is only the expression of
the general rule of practice, that a defect for want of parties
not absolutely necessary, must be expressly objected to. The
non-joinder bf Mr. Davis was not objected to in the pleadings
and does not appear to have been objected to at the hearing.
The objection comes too late.
(2) The persons named were not necessary or indispensable
parties..: Mr. Davis is said in argument to have a beneficial
interest'in the land. D. Appleton & Co. and Mary' F. Wilson
are said to have liens on the equity of --redemption derived
from Mrs. Davis. The interests so"alleged are distinct and
several and will not be affected by the decree.
The husband's jus marit and courtesy seem to have been
abolished in Florida. "Se e . 2. Hereafter, when any female, a

ANDERSON v. WATT.
Opinion of the Court.

citizen of this State, shall marry, or when any female shall.
marry a citizen of this State, .the female being seized or possessed of real or personal property, her title to the same shall
continue separate, independent, and beyond the control of her
husband notwithstanding her coverture, and shall not be
taken in execution for his debts: P'ovided,lowever, That the
property of the female shall remain in the care and management of her husband. See. 3. Married women may hereafter
become seized or possessed of real and personal property during coverture, subject, however, to the restrictions, limitations
and provisions contained in the foregoing section." Bush's
Florida Digest, 1872, p. 580, act March 6, 1845: These laws
destroy the husband's estate in the wife's land. Under the
former act he was merely a bailiff, not an owner, and even
this relationship to the land seems to have been abolished by
the Constitution. If the husband had no interest in the land
he was not a necessary, if indeed, a proper party.
MR. CHiEF JUSTiCE FULLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
Ufnder the act of March 3, 1875, determining the jurisdiction
of Circuit Courts of the United States (18 Stat. 470, 472) the
objection to the jurisdiction upon a denial of the averment of
citizenship is not confined to a plea in abatement or a 'demurrer, but may be taken in the answer, and the time at which it
may be raised is not restricted. Although the avermefit as to
citizenship may be sufficient, yet, if it appear that that averment is untrue, it is the duty of the Circuit Court to dismiss
the suit; and this court, on appeal or writ of error,' must se
to it that'the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court b" in no respect
been imposed upon. Jforris v. Gilmer, 129 U. S. 315,'325:
Ya8haeaz Railroad v. -Lowell Railroad, 136 U. S. 356, 374;
cameron v. Hlodges, 127 U. S. 322, 325.
As remarked in Bernards Townsl.? v. Stebbin'i09 U. S.
341, 353, it has been the constant effort of Congress and of
this court to prevdnt the discrimination in respect to suits
between citizens of the same State' and suits between c.ti::ens

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

of different States, established by the Constitution and laws
of the United States, from being evaded by bringing into the
federal courts controversies between citizens of the same
State. Shreveport v. Cole, 129.U. S. 86, 44.
Although the Fourteenth Amendment declares all citizens
of the United States to be citizens "of the State where they
reside," yet as the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is limited
in the sense that it has none except that conferred by the
Constitution and laws of the United States, and the presumption is that a cause is without its jurisdiction unless the contrary affirmatively appears, it is essential that in cases where
jurisdiction depends upon the citizenship of the parties, such
citizenship, or the facts which in legal intendment constitute
it, should be distinctively and positively averred in the pleadings, or should appear affirmfatively with equal distinctness in
other parts of the record. It is not sufficient that jurisdiction
may be inferred argumentatively from the averments. Robertson v. Cease, 97 U. S.646, 649; Brown v. Keene, 8 Pet. 112,
115. It was therefore held in Poberf.om v. Cease, &upra;
ContinentaZ Insurance Co. v. 1,hoatk, 119 U. S.237; Aenard
v. Goggan, 121 U. S. 253, and other cases, that the averment
that the parties to a cause were "residents" in different
States, respectively, was not enough. And in Brown v.
leene, supra, which was an action in the United States Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana, where the
plaintiff was a citizen of- the State of Maryland, thatthe averment that the defendant was a citizen or resident, "holding
his fixed and permanent domicil in the parish of St. Charles,"
there being no allegation that he was a citizen of the United
States, was insufficient.
Since the act of 1875, if it appears from the pleadings and
proofs taken together that the defendants are citizens of the
United States and reside, in the sense of having their permanent domicil, in the State of which the complainants are citizens, (or that each of the indispensable adverse parties is not
competent to sue or liable to be sued, therein,) the Circuit
Court cannot maintain cognizance of the suit. And the
inquiry is determined by the condition of the parties at the

ANDERSON v. WATT.
Opinion of the Court.

commencement of the suit. .Mullen v. Torrance, 9 Wheat.
537; Conolly v. Taylor, 2 Pet. 556; Crehore v. Ohio & _Missis8ippi Railway, 131 U. S. 240; Jakl8on v. Allen, 132 U. S. 27.
The bill in this case was properly filed in the name of the
two executors under the will of Symington, the mortgagee,
to whom letters testamentary had issued; McClellan's Dig.
Laws Florida, c. 2, ยง 73, p. 97; 3 Williams on Executors,
(6th Am. ed. bottom paging,) 1867; 1 Williams on Executors,
267, 687 and notes; 1 Daniell Oh. Pr. (4th-Am. ed.) 226; Rubber Co. v. Goodyear, 9 Wall. 788; lill v. Tucker, 13 How.
458. Both qualified and acted, and the question of their
authority to bring the suit as executors of Symington, raised
by the demurrer, was determined in their favor.
Hugh C. Wilson and Edward C. Wilson were appointed
executors of and trustees under the will of Edward J. Wilson,
the mortgagor, and letters testamentary issued to them, describing them as "both of Peekskill, Westchester County, New
York." By the will certain legacies were bequeathed, and
all the rest, residue, and remainder of the estate, both real and
personal, of whatsoever nature or kind, and wherever situated,
was directed to be divided into five equal shares, one of which
was bequeathed and devised to Edward 0. Wilson and the
other four shares to Hugh C. and Edward C. 'Wilson, to hold
upon certain trusts therein described. Neither the executors
and trustees, nor the devisees, nor the heirs at law were made
parties defendant to this bill.
Under the statutes of Florida it was provided that "1when
any person shall die leaving property in this State, and for
the space of six months thereafter no person shall be appointed
administrator on the estate of such deceased person, it shall be
the duty of the sheriff of the county ex ojjicio, to take charge
of such estate, and to administer on and settle said estate, in.
the same manner as directed for other administrators." (McClellan's Dig. c. 2, sec. 15, p. 81.)
It is indicated by the record that J. C. Anderson was sheriff
of Orange County, and it was admitted that he was duly appointed by the county court of that county administrator of
the estate of Edward J. Wilson, deceased, July 20, 1885, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

not with the will annexed, although Edward J. Wilson died
testate in New York, where he resided, and where his will
-was admitted to probate, which will conformed to the laws of
Florida in the form and manner of its execution, and might
have been admitted to record in the county court. McClellan's
Dig. c. 200, % 1, 8, pp. 985, 987; Crolly v. Clark, 20 Florida,
849. Thomas E. Wilson was a citizet of Orange County,
Florida, and he and Anderson, as administrator, were made
defendants, together with Sarah J. Davis, to whom the property had been conveyed by Thomas E., and who had occupied
it from October, 1879, to September, 1885, when the process
in this case was served upon her, and had paid all taxes and
made large and valuable improvements thereon. "George W.
Davis, her husband, was not made a party, but -on the 3d of
May, 1886, an answer was filed in the case, entitled "the answer of Sarah J. Davis, and George W. Davis, her husband,
two of the defendants above named, to the bill of complaint
exhibited against them by the complainants;" signed by solicitors for defendants; and answering for those defendants. To
this answer the complainants filed their replication, entitled
"replication of said complainants to the answer of Sarah J.
Davis and George W. Davis, defendants," and describing the
answer as that of those two. defendants. The names of all
the parties defendant were not set forth in the titles of the
decrees. The bond on appeal was signed by Anderson, administrator, Thomas E. Wilson, Sarah J. Davis and George
W. Davis, as principals; recited that the appeal had been
taken by them all; and was conditioned for the prosecution
of the appeal by all.
Mr. Davis appears to have been a necessary party. McClellan's Dig.:c. 150, p. 754; 1 Daniell Ch. Pr. (4 Am. ed.) 178;
Lignoski v. Brace, 8 Florida, 269; Smith v. Smith, 18 Florida,
789; Dzialinski v. Bank of Jaeksonville, 23 Florida, 346;
.McGill v. -leGill, 19 Florida, 341; Staley v. Bamilton, 19
Florida, 275; Cam. v. ITaisley, 22 Florida, 317. And although
plaintiffs did not originally, or by amefidment after answer,
make him in terms a party to their bill, which would have
disclosed that he was a citizen of New York, yet the effect of

ANDERSONI v. WATT.

'16

Opinion of the Court.

what was done was such as bound him by the decree, and
we think upon this record he must be held to have become
such.
A person who has not been named as defendant to a bill
may appear at the hearing, with the consent of all the parties to the cause, Dy8on v. Xorris, 1 Hare, 413, 419; Bozon-v.
Bolland,1 Russ. & Myl. 69 ; and in this instance the objection
of want of consent cannot be taken.
The plea which Mrs. Davis interposed under oath, December 7, 1885, stated that "before and at the time of the filing
of the bill, she was, and now is, under the coverture of one
George W. Davis, who is still living, to wit, in the city and
State of New York." No replication was filed to the plea,
but notice given by the plaintiffs, setting it down for hearing,
No further action upon it is disclosed by the record. The answer of Mrs. Davis and her husband set forth "that in the winter of 1878 and spring of 1879 these defendants were residing ir
the city of New York, where they had been residing for some;
years; that the health of the defendant Sarah J. Davis not
being good, she thought residing in Florida would benefit her,
and that in the summer of 1879 she and her huband investigated the subject as well as they could by reading and talking
with people from Florida, and from such investigation they
concluded that if the climate should prove beneficial to the
said Sarah J. Davis they would find it profitable to purchase
an orange grove in South Florida, which the said Sarah J.
Davis could take care of and manage, except in the summer
months, while the said George W. Davis remained at his
business in New York, the said Sarah J. Davis spending the
the summer with him there;" and that after the purchase
was consummated with the approval of Mr. Davis in New
York in September, 1879, 'Mrs. Davis went to Florida in October and took actual possession of the property herself. The
proofs showed that she continued .personally in occupation of
it from that time forward, and improved and cultivated it.
Mrs. Davis was examined as a witness and testified that her
husband was living in New York and was a party to the suit;
and that she resided on the property and had occupied it ever
VOL. cxxx-mi-45

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

since she purchased it, except when she went "North in the
summer for a few months."
The deed of Thomas E. Wilson to her of October 13, 1879,
recorded November 24, 1879, described her as "Sarah J. Davis,
wife of George W. Davis, of the city of New York," and the
mortgage back was given by "Sarah J. Davis and George W.
Davis, her husband, of the city of New York." On the 30th
of March, 1884, Mr. and Mrs. Davis gave a mortgage to D.
Appleton & Co., which was recorded in Orange County,
Florida, February 12, 1884, and described the mortgagors as
"George W. Davis, of the city of New York, and Sarah J.
Davis, his wife."
We are satisfied the pleadings and proofs in the record,
taken together, negative the averment of the bill as to the citizenship of Sarah J. Davis, and show that she and her husband
were not citizens of Florida when the suit was commenced,
and that it is fairly to be presumed that they were citizens
of the State of New York.
The place where a person lives is taken to be his domicil
until facts adduced establish the contrary, and a domicil when
acquired is presumed to continue until it is shown to have been
changed. .fXitchell v. United States, 21 Wall. 350, 352; Desmare v. United States, 93 U. S.605, 609; Shelton v. Tifin, 6
IHow. 163; Ennis v. Smith, 14 How. 400. And although the
wife may be residing in another place, the domicil of the husband is her domicil. Story Confl. Laws, ยง 46; Wharton Confl.
Laws, ยง 43; and cases cited. Even where a wife is living
.apart from her husband, without sufficient cause, his domicil
is in law her domicil. N eely v. Clayton, 110 U. S.701, 705.
The rule is, said Chief Justice Shaw in llarteauv. far'teau,
1-4 Pick. 181, 185, "founded upon the theoretic identity of
person, and of interest, between husband and wife, as established by law, and the presumption that, from the nature of
that relation, the home of the one is that of the other, and
antended to promote, strengthen and secure their interests in
this relation, as it ordinarily exists, where union and harmony
prevail. But the law," he continued, "will recognize a wife
as having a separate existence, and separate interests and sep-

ANDERSON v,.WATT.
Opinion of the Court.

arate rights, in those cases where the express object of all
proceedings is to show, that the relation itself ought tq be
dissolved, or so modified as to establish separate interests."
Mrs. Davis was not separated from her husband,*and no element of separate domicil, in any legal sense, existed.
It is clear that the Circuit Court, upon the development of
the facts, should have proceeded no further, and dismissed the
case.
But it is contended that the supposed defect was curable by
amendment, and that this was actually done, and the court
thereby justified in retaining jurisdiction. Conolly v. Taylor,
2 Pet. 556, is relied on. In that case a bill was fied in the
United States court in Kentucky by aliens and a citizen of
Pennsylvania. The defendants were citizens of Kentucky,
except one who was a citizen of Ohio, on whom process was
served in Ohio. The jurisdiction of the court was not questioned so far as respected the alien plaintiffs, but as between
the citizen of Pennsylvania and the citizen of Ohio, the court
could not exercise jurisdiction. Before the cause was brought
on however, the court permitted the complainants to amend
their bill by striking out the citizen of Pennsylania as complainant and making him a defendant, and the question was
whether the original defect was cured by this circumstance,
and whether the court, having jurisdiction over all the parties
then in the cause, could make a decree. This court held that
jurisdiztion depended upon the state of the parties hat the
commencement of the suit, which no subsequent change could
give or take away; that if an alien became a citizen pending
the suit, the jurisdiction which was once vested would not be
divested;, and so if a citizen sued a citizen of the same State
he could not give jurisdiction by rerioving and becoming a
citizen of a different State,' but that just as the omission to
state the character of parties might be corrected at any time
before hearing, so-by an amendment tiade by striking out the
person whose presence as a complainant prevented the exercise
of the jurisdiction, the impediment could be properly removed.
The case was one, however, where the remaining complainants
might have originally instituted the suit without joining the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

other unless as a defendant, and the other was retained as a
party by the amendment.
In this case, on the 21st of December, 1886, after the proofs
had been taken, but before the hearing, an amendment was
permitted by the court by striking out the original averment.
as to the citizenship of the complainants Faber and Watt,
executors, and inserting a new averment stating Faber's citizenship as before, but Watt to be "a subject of the kingdom
of Great Britain, temporarily residing in the State of New"
York," and the cause was then directed, upon the ground that
the letters to Faber had been revoked, to proceed in the name
of James S. Watt, sole surviving executor of James Symington, and was Jiseutnmued as to Faber. But the difficulty

with this attempt to obviate the fatal defect in jurisdiction
was that the record showed that Watt was not the sole surviving executor of James Symington when the bill was filed,
but on the contrary, when the application to amend was made,.
plaintiffs exhibited to the court and filed in the case exemplifled copies of the records and files in the office of the surrogate
of the county of New York in the matter of the application
of Gustavus W. Faber for a revocation of the letters testamentary issued to hin ,as one of the executors, by which it was
shown that on the 4th of May, 1886, Faber filed his petition
for the revocation of the letters as to him, and that the order
of revocation was entered on that day. It therefore appearedc
that Watt could not -have maintained the bill as amended, on
the 25th day of August, 1885, when the bill as originally
framed was filed, and jurisdiction could no more be given to
the Circuit Court by, the amendment than if a citizen of
Florida had sued another in that court and subsequently sought
to give it jurisdiction by removing from the State. Clarke v.
Xfathewon,"12 Pet. 1641; .forris v. Gilmer, 129 U. S. 315.
.The decree is reversed and the cause remanded witk instruetion8 to dismiss the billfor want ofjurisdiction.
miR.JusTIcs

BnEW.ER dissented.

