656

OCTOBER TERIM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

SAN FRANCISCO CITY AND COUNTY a.. LE ROY.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
-No. 878. -Submitted January 19, 1891.-Decided March 2, 1891.

The attorney of the city and county of San Francisco has no autliority to
relinquish rights reserved for the benefit of the public by the Van'Ness
ordinance, the city and county having succeeded to the property and
become subject to the liabilities of the city.
The confirmation of the pueblo lands to San Francisco was in trust for the
benefit of lot-holders, under grants from the pueblo, town or city of San
Francisco, or other competent authority, and, as to the residue, in trust
for the benefit of the inhabitants of the city; and the title of the city
rests upon the decree of the court, recognizing its title to the four square
leagues and establishing their boundaries, and the confirmatory acts of
Congress.
The exercise of this trust, as directed by'the Van Ness ordinance, was
authorized both by the legislature.of the State and by act of the Congress of the United States.
That ordinance having reserved from the grant all lands then occupied or
set apart for public squares, streets and sites for school houses, city hall
and other buildings belonging to the corporation, a decree in a suit against
the city and county to quiet a title derived through the ordinance should
except from its operation the lands thus reserved, unless the fact that
there were no such reservations be proved "inthe case by the public
records of the city and county.
The swamp land act of 1850, 9 Stat. 519, c. 84, was not intended to apply tq
lands held by the United States, charged with equitable claims of others
which. the United States were bound by treaty to protect, and consequently does not affect the pueblo lands which were acquired by the
pueblo before its passage.
It is doubtful whether there were any lands within the limits of .the pueblo
which could be considered to be tide-lands; but whether there were or
not, the duty and the power of the United States under the treaty, tc
protect the claims of the cil of San Francisco as successor to the
lueblo, were superior to any-su isequently acquired rights or claims-of
California over tide-lands.
The tide-lands whichpassed to California on its admission were not those
occasionally affected by the tide, but those over which tide-water flowed
so continuously as to prevent their use and occupation.

THIS was a suit in equity against the city and county of
.Sau Francisco, a municipal corporation of California, to quiet

SAN FRANCISCO v. LE ROY.
Statement of the Case.

the title of the plaintiffs below, the defendants in error here,
to certain real property within the limits of that municipality,
against the alleged claim of the corporation to an adverse
estate therein. The plaintiffs were citizens of France. The
defendant, as a corporation of California, must be treated, for
purposes of jurisdiction, as a citizen of that State.
The bill alleged that the plaintiffs were seized and possessed
in fee simple absolute of certain real property in the city and
county of San Francisco, which was particularly described,
and that they and their predecessors had been thus seized and
possessed for more than ten years; that the defendant set up
some claim of title to the property, or to some portion-thereof,
adversely to the plaintiffs, which claim was without right
or justice and unfounded in law or equity, and had assumed
to make surveys within the limits of the land; mark out lines
of streets; subdivide a portion of the property into lots; and
make a map thereof; and that it threatened to sell such subdivisions and lots and open such streets, and in divers otherways assumed to exercise acts of ownership over the property,.
to the slandering and disquieting of plaintiff's title, the depreciation of its market value, and the hindrance and prevention of its sale or use, to the manifest injury, loss and
detriment of the plaintiffs.
They further averred that they deraigned title to all..but a'
small portion of the leoperty, by divers mesne conveyances
from William J. Shaw, who, on the 28th of March, 1861,
commenced a suit in the District Court of the Twelfth Judicial District in and for the said city and county of San Francisco, against the defendant herein, to quiet his title to the
land described in his complaint in that suit; that the claim of
the defendant might be determined and the title of the plaintiff therein (the said Shaw) be established and declared valid,
and that it might be decided that the defendant had no title,
claim and interest in the land; that the said defendant was
served with summons and appeared by attorney, and such
proceedings were afterwards had in the suit that on the 5th
of February, 1862, the court entered its final judgment and
decree therein, whereby'it adjudged that the claim of the
VOL. CxxxvIrr-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

defendant to the premises was invalid and void, that the title
of the plaintiff therein was valid and sufficient as against the
defendant and against all persons claiming through or under
the defendant, and that all such persons should be forever
barred and restrained from asserting any estate or title or
interest in the premises or any part thereof; that the said
judgment and decree in favor of Mr. Shaw still remained in
full force, never having been appealed from, reversed or
vacated; and they insisted that by it the defendant was estopped from claiming or pretending to any right, title or
interest in the lands therein described.
The plaintiffs, therefore, prayed that the defendant might
answer the bill and set forth whatever right, title or interest
it might have in the real property in relation to which the
bill was filed, or in any part thereof, to the end that the court
might determine upon its validity and that it might be adjudged and decreed that the plaintiffs were the owners of the
property and that the defendant had no right, title or interest"
therein either in law or equity.
The defendant appeared by its attorney and filed its answer,
in which it denied upon information and belief the allegations
of the bill, and averred in like manner that the defendant was
and had been for more than ten years last past continuously
the owner in fee and possessed of the described premises.
The answer also averred, in the same way, that the plain*tiffs ought not to maintain the suit, because neither they nor
their predecessor or grantors, or any of them, were seized or
possessed of the premises or any part thereof within five
years next before the filing of their bill; but, on the contrary,
that the defendant had been during all that-time in the complete, open and notorious possession of the premises, claiming
title to them in good faith and adversely to the whole world.
A general replication to the answer having been filed, proofs
were taken, and upon the pleadings and proofs a decree was
passed for the plaintiffs, adjudging that the plaintiffs were
then, and had been since the 26th of October, 1883, the day
on which the bill was filed, the owners and seized in fee
simple of the premises described in the complaint, and that

SAX FRANCISCO v. LE ROY.
Opinion of the Court.

the defendant had no estate, right, title or interest therein, or
to any part thereof, and adjudging that the defendant and all
persons claiming under it be forever barred and enjoined from
asserting any right or interest in the premises.
From this decree an appeal was taken to this court by the
defendant. Before the decree was entered, one of the plaintiffs, Victor Le Roy, died, and his title and interest in the
premises described in the bill of complaint passed to Ren6 de
Tocqueville, who is a citizen of the Republic of France, and
by consent of counsel he was substituted in the place of the
deceased as a party plaintiff.
.Mr. George Plournoy for appellant.
.Xr. Evans S. Pillsbury and .3.
appellees.

Gordn? Blanding for

MxiR. JusriCE FIELD, after. making the above statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
It was conceded in the court below that the premises, to
remove the cloud from which the present bill is filed, were at
the time "pueblo lands" of San Francisco; that is, that they
were part of the lands claimed by the city as successor of a
Mlexican pueblo of that name; that they are within the limits
of tile city of San Francisco as prescribed by the charter of
1851, and are within the four square leagues described in the
decree of the United States Circuit Court for the District of
California, entered May 18, 1865, by which the claim of the
city as such successor was confirmed and its boundaries established, and also within the lines of the patent of the United
States for the pueblo lands, 4ssued to the city in 1884.
It was also stipulated that the decree of the Circuit Court
and the patent of the United States should be considered as
in evidence, and that all the statutes of California and of the
Ujnited States affecting the pueblo lands of San Francisco
miglt be referred to, in the consideration of the case, as
though formally introduced in evidence.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

The plaiiitiffs in their bill rely principally upon the decree
of the District Court for the Twelfth Judicial District of the
State, in the case brought by William J. Shaw to quiet his
title against the claim of the defendant herein, contending
that the title of Shaw, through whom they deraign their interest, was thereby adjudged to be valid as against the defendant and parties deriving title under the defendant, and that
they are estopped from asserting against that decree any title
or interest in the premises. The decree was rendered upon a
disclaimer of the city and county of San Francisco, by its
attorney, that it had any right, title or interest in the premises
described in the complaint, or any part thereof, at the commencement of the suit, and its consent that the plaintiff might
take judgment therein in accordance with his prayer. Whatever authority the attorney of the city and county may have
had to conduct its ordinary litigation, he had none to relinquish rights reserved for the benefit of the public by the Van
Ness ordinance; and the property in that case was claimed, as
will be afterwards seen, under that ordinance alone.1 The city
1.In the opinion of the court reference is made to an ordinance of the
city and county of San Francisco, entitled ,, An Ordinance for the settlement and quieting of land titlds in the city of San Francisco," approved
June 20, 1855, which is generally knownas the Van Ness Ordinance, from
the name of its reputed author. Mr. Justice Field has been so kind as to
furnish the reporter with a copy of the second, third and fourth sections
of that ordinance, and other documents connected with the subject, which
are as follows:
T'an Ness Ordinance.
"SEc. 2. The city of San Francisco hereby relinquishes and grants all
the right and claim of the city io the lands within the corporate limits, to
the parties in the actual possession thereof, by themselves or tenants, on
or before the first day of January, A.D., 1855, and to their heirs and assigns
forever; excepting the property known as the slip property, and bounded
on the north by Clay Street, on the west by Davis Street, on the south by
Sacramento Street, and on the east by the water-lot front. And excepting,
also, any piece or parcel of lan4 situated south, east, or north of .the waterlot front of the city of San yrancisco, as established by an act of the
Legislature of March 26, 1851 ;, P),ded, such possession has been continued up to the time of the Introduction of this ordinance in the common
council; or, if interrupted by an intruder, or trespqsser, has been, or may
be, recovered by legal process; and it is hereby declared to be the true

SAN FRANCISCO v. LE ROY.
Opinion of the Court.

and county of San Francisco had previously succeeded to all the
rights of property, and become subject to all the liabilities, of
intent and meaning of this ordinance, that when any of the said lands have
been occupied and possessed under and by virtue of a lease or demise, they
shall be deemed to have been in the possession of the landlord or lessor under
whom they were so occupied or possessed; Provided, that all persons who
hold title to lands within said limits by virtue of any grant made by any
ayuntamiento, town council, alcalde or justice of the-peace of the former
pueblo of San Francisco, before the 7th day.of July, 1846; or grants to lots
-f land lying east of Larkin Street and northeast of Johnston Street, made
by any ayuntamiento, town council or alcalde, of said pueblo, since that
date, and before the incorporation of the city of San Francisco by the State
of California; and which grant, or the material portion thereof, was registered, or recorded in a proper book of record deposited in the office, or
custody or control of the recorder of the county of San Francisco, on or
before the 3d day of April, A.D., 1850; or by virtue of any conveyance duly
made by the commissioners of the funded debt of the city of San Francisco,
and recorded on or before the first day of January, 1855, shall, for all the
purposes contemplated by this ordinance, be deemed to be the possessors
of the land so granted, although the said lands may be in the actual occupancy of persons holding the same adverse to the said grantees.
"SEC. 3. The patent issued, or any grant made by the United States to the
city, shall inure to the several use, benefit, and behoof of the said possessors, their heirs and assigns, mentioned in the preceding section, as fully
and effectually, to all intents and purposes, as if it were issued or made
directly to them individually and by name.
"S'ix. 4. The city, however, as a consideration annexed to the next two
preceding sections, reserves to itself all the lots which it now occupies, or
has already set apart for publt squares, streets, and sites for school-houses,
city-hall, and other buildings belonging to the corporation; and also such
lot- and lands as may be selected and reserved for streets and other public
purposes, under the provisions of the next succeeding sections."
This ordinance was ratified by the legislature of California on March 11,
1858, (Stat. of California of 1858, chap. 66, p. 52).
And on July 1, 1864, Congress passed an act, entitled "An act to expedite the settlement of titles to land in the State of California," by the fifth
section of which all the right and title of the United States to the lands
within the corporate limits of the city of San Francisco, as defined in its
charter passed April 15, 1851, was relinquished and granted to the city and,
it.- successor for the uses and purposes specified inthe ordinance, with
some exceptions not necessary to be here mentioned. (13 Stat. chap. 194,
sec. 5, p. 333.)
The following is the decree of the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of California, entered May 18, 1805, confirning the claim of the
city of San Francisco to its pueblo lands:

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the city. Act of April 19, 1856, consolidating the government
of the city andcounty of San Francisco. Sess. Laws 1856, c.
125, p. 145.
THE CITY OF SAN FRANcISCO

VS.
TnE UNiTED STATES.

The appeal in this case, taken by the petitioner, the city of San Francisco,
from the decree of the Board of Land Commissioners, to ascertain and settle
private land claims in the State of California, entered on the twenty-first day
of1 December, 1854, by which the claim of the petitioner was adjudged to be
valid, and confirmed to lands within certain described limits, coming on to
be heard upon the transcript of proceedings and decision of said board, and
the papers and evidence upon which said decision was founded, and further
evidence taken in the District Court of the United States for the Northern
District of California pending said appeal - the said case having been transferred to this court by order of the said District Court, under the provisions of section four of the act entitled "An Act to expedite the settlement
of titles to lands in the State of California," approved July 1st, 1864,and counsel of the United States and for the petitioner having been heard,
and due deliberation had, it is ordered, adjudged and decreed that the
claim of the petitioner, the city of San Francisco, to the land hereinafter
described is valid, and that the same be confirmed.
The land of which confirmation is made is a tract situated within the
county of San Francisco, and embracing so much of the extreme upper portion of the peninsula above ordinary high-water mark (as the same existed at
the date of the conquest of the country, namely, the seventh day of July,
A.D. 1846,) on which the city of San Francispo is situated as will contain an
area of four square leagues; said tract being bounded on the north and
east by the Bay of San Francisco; on the west by the Pacific Ocean; and
on the south by a due east and west line drawn so as to include the area
aforesaid, subject to the following deductions, namely: such lands as have
been heretofore reserved or dedicated to public uses by the United States,
and also such parcels of land as have been, by grants from lawful authority,
vested in private ownership and have been finally confrined to parties
claiming under said grants by the tribunals of the United States, or shall
hereafter be finally confirmed to parties claiming thereunder by said tribunals in proceedings now pending therein for that purpose; all of which said
excepted parcels of land are included within the area of four square leagues
above mentioned, but are excluded from the confirmation to the city. This
confirmation is in trust for the benefit of the lot-holders under grants from
the pueblo, town or city of San Francisco, or other competent authority,
and as to any residue, in trust for the use and benefit of the inhabitants of
Fim).n
the city.
Circuit Judge.
SAN FRANCISCO, May 18th, 1865.

SAN FRANCISCO v. LE ROY.
Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiffs did not, however, on the hearing, rely principally, or to any great extent, upon any estoppel by that
decree, but endeavored to establish their claim of title by conveyances from former occupants of different parcels of land,
known as the "Kissling tract," and the "Thorne and Center
tract," and of the rights enuring to the occupants under what
is known, from its reputed author, as the Van Ness ordinance,
the object of which was to settle and quiet the title of persons
in possession of lands in the city of.San Francisco; and under
the act of the legislature of the State of California, passed in
Mlarch, 1858, ratifying and confirming the ordinance; and
under the act of Congress relinquishing and granting to the
city all the interest of the United States to lands within the
The following is theact of Congress of March 8, 1866, also confirming
said claim, and relinquishing all interest in the lands covered by that decree
of confirmation not relinquished by. the act of 1864:
"An act to quiet the title to certain lands within the corporate limits of
the city of San Francisco," approved March 8, 1866.
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States Qf America in Congress assembled, That all the right and title of the
United States to the land situated within the corporate limits of the city of
San Francisco, in the State of California, confirmed to the city of San
Francisco by the decree of the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of California, entered on the eighteenth day of May, one
thousand eight hundred and sixty-five, be, and the same are hereby, relinquished and granted to said city of San Fratlcisco and its successors, and
the claim of said city to said land is hereby confirmed, subject, however, to
the reservations and exceptions designated in sai4Alecr"e, and upon the following trusts, namely: that all the said land, not heretolore granted to said
city. shall be disposed of and conveyed by said city to parties in the bona
.fide actual possession thereof, by themselves or tenants, on the passage of
this act, in such quantities and upon such terms and conditions as the legislature of the State of California may prescribe, except such parcels thereof
a, may be reserved and set apart by ordinance of said city for public uses:
Prorided,hoirever, That the relinquishment and grant by this act shall not
interfere with or prejudice any valid adverse right or claim, if such exist,
to said land or any part thereof, whether derived from Spain, Mexico,
or the United States, or preclude a judicial examination and adjustment
thereof." 14 Stat. 4.
The patent issued by the United States to the city of San Francisco upon
the survey of her claim is dated June 20, 1884, and described the lands as
bounded on the bay by ordinary -high-water mark, as it existed July 7,
1846, the line of which crosses the mouth of all creeks entering the bay.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

-corporate limits of the act of 1851 in trust for the uses and
purposes of that ordinance. They also claimed the benefit of
a deed of the tide-land commissioners of the State to Eugene
L. Sullivan, one of the grantors of William J. Shaw, dated
December 3, 1870, which purported, for the consideration of
$352.80, to release to the grantee the right, title and interest
of the State of California to the premises therein described.
The testimony, documentary and otherwise, produced in
the case, gives.a very clear as well as accurate account of the
origin, nature and extent of the title claimed by the city of
San Francisco, or the city and county of San Francisco, to its
municipal lands, as successors to the rights of the former
pueblo. This history has been related in several cases in this
court, notably in T'renouth v. San Franoigco,100 U. S. 251;
Palmer v. Low, 98 U. S. 1 Gri8ar v. geDowell, 6 Wall. 363;
and Townsend v. Greeley, 5 Wall. 326. A brief statement of
the principal facts only will be necessary to an intelligent disposition of the questions presented for consideration.
When California was occupied by the forces of the United
States in 1846 there was a Mexican pueblo at San Francisco,
that is, a settlement or town under the Mexican government,
with alcaldes and other officers, for the administration of its
municipal affairs. It was the law of Mexico that pueblos or
towns, when once recognized by public authority, became
entitled, for their benefit and that of their inhabitants, to the
use of lands constituting the site of such pueblos or towns,
and adjoining territory, to the extent of four square leagues,
to be measured off and assigned to them by officers of the
government. Townsend v. Greeley, 5 Wall. 326, 336. Under
those laws the pueblo of San Francisco asserted a claim to
fiour square leagues, to be measured off from the northern
portion -of the peninsula on which the present city is situated.
The alcaldes, or officers of the town, under the Mexican government, exercised the power of distributing the lands in small
parcels to the inhabitants, for building, cultivation and other
uses, the remainder being generally held for commons and
other public purposes. When our forces took possession of
San Francisco citizens of the United States were appointed by

SAIN FRANCISCO v. LE ROY.
Opinion of the Court.

the naval and military commanders to act in the place of the
Mexican officers of, the pueblo, and they exercised a like authority, which they supposed was invested in them, in making
various grants of land in the city. Many persons then there,
and many who subsequently settled in California, disputed
Buch authority, and took up and occupied any land which
they found vacant within the limits of the pueblo. The natural consequence followed -confusion
and uncertainty in the
titles in the city for some years after the acquisition of the
country.
In April, 1850, San Francisco was incorporated by the state
government as a city. She at once claimed the lands of the
pueblo as its successor, and, after the Board of Land Commissioners to settle private land claims in California was created
by act of Congress in March, 1851, prosecuted her claim to
this land for confirmation. 9 Stat. c. 41, p. 631. In December, 1854, that board confirmed her claim to a portion of the
four square leagues and denied it for the balance. The city
appealed to the District Court of the United States from that
decision, and the appeal remained there for some years undisposed of. In September, 1864, the case was transferred from
that court to the Circuit Court of the United States, under the
authority of the act of Congress to expedite the settling of
titles to lands in the State of California, 13 Stat. 333, c. 194,
ยง 4; and in October following its claim was confirmed to four
square leagues, subject to certain reservations. The decree of
final confirmation, in its present form, was not entered until
the 18th of May, 1865. That decree confirmed the claim of
the city to a tract of land embracing so much of the upper
portion of the peninsula which is situated above the ordina v
high-water mark of 1846, as would contain an area of fo4'r
square leagues, the tract being bounded on the north and eaA
by the bay of San Francisco, on the west by the Pacific Ocean,
and on the south by a due east and west line drawn so as to
include the area designated, subject to certain deductions which
it is unnecessary to mention here. The confirmation was to
San Francisco in trust for the benefit of lot-holders under
grants from the pueblo, town or city of San Francisco, or

OCTOBER TERAI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

other competent authority, and as to any residue in trust for
the benefit of the inhabitants of the city.
In April, 1851, the charter of San Francisco was repealed
and a new charter adopted. Pending the appeal of the pueblot
claim in the United States District Court, the Van Ness ordinance, above mentioned, was passed by the common council
of the city, by which the city relinquished and granted all its
right and claim to land within its corporate linits as definua
by its charter of 1851, with certain exceptions, to parties in
the actual possession thereof by themselves or tenants on or
before the first of January, 1855; provided such possession.
was continued up to the time of the introduction of the ordinance into the common council, which was in June, 1855, or,
if interrupted by an intruder or trespasser, had been or might.
be recovered by legal process; and it declared that for the
purposes contemplated by the ordinance persons should be
deemed possessors who held titles to land within those limits
by virtue of a grant made by any ayuntamiento, town council,
alcalde or justice of the peace of the former pueblo before the
7th of July, 1846, or by virtue of a grant subsequently made
by the authorities, within certain limits of the city previous toits incorporation by the State, provided the grant, or a material portion of it, had been recorded in a proper book of records in the control of the recorder of the county previous to
April 3, 1851. The city among other things, reserved from.
the grant all the lots which it then occupied or had set apart
for public squares, streets, and sites for school houses, city hall,
and other buildings belonging to the corporation, but what
lots or parcels were thus occupied or set apart does not appear.
Subsequently, in March, 1858, the legislature of the State
ratified and confirmed this ordinance, (Stats. of Cal. of 1858,
c. 66, p: 52,) and by the fifth section of the act of Congress to
expedite the settlement of titles to lands in the State of California, the right and title of the United States to the lands
claimed within the corporate limits of the charter of 1851
were relinquished and granted to the city and its successors for
the uses and purposes specified in that ordinance. 13 Stat.
333, c. 194, . 5.

SAN FRANCISCO v. LE ROY.

169,7

Opinion of the Court.

Notwithstanding the title to the lands within the limits of
the charter of 1851 was thus settled, the appeal from the decree of the Board of Land Commissioners was prosecuted both
by the city and the United States -by the city from so much
of the decree as included in the estimate of the quantity of
the land confirmed, the reservations made -and by the United
States from the whole decree.
Whilst these appeals were pending, Congress passed the act
of March 8, 1866, to quiet the title to the land within the city
limits. 14 Stat. c. 13, p. 4. At that time the limits of the
city were coincident with those of the county, and embraced
the whole of the four square leagues confirmed. By that act
all the right and title of the United States to the land covered
by the decree of the Circuit Court were relinquished and
granted to the city, and the claim to the land was confirmed,
subject, however, to certain reservations and exceptions, and
in trust that all land not previously granted to the city should
be disposed of and conveyed by the city to the parties in the
bona ide,actual possession thereof, by themselves or tenants,
on the passage of the act, in such quantities and on such terms
and conditions as the legislature of the State of California
might prescribe, excepting such parcels as might be reserved
and set apart by ordinance of the city for public uses. In
consequence of this act the appeals pending were dismissed.
lown8end v. Greeley, 5 Wall. 326. The title of the city,
therefore, rests upon the decree of the court recognizing its
title to the four square leagues, and establishing the boundaries, and the confirmatory acts of Congress. Grisar v. X[cDowell, 6 Wall. 363.
The trust upon which the city held the municipal lands it
had acquired as successor of the Mexican pueblo, as declared
in the decree of confirmation, was a public and municipal
trust, to be .exercised chiefly in the distribution of the lands
to occupants and settlers and in the use of the remainder for
the public purposes of the city; and the exercise was subject to
the supervision and control of the legislative authority either
of the State or of the United States, and it does not matter
which, inasmuch as its exercise, as directed by the Van Ness

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

ordinance, was authorized both by the legislature of the State
and the act of the Congress of the United States. The purpose of the ordinance, as indicated in its title, as well-as in its
several provisions, was to settle and quiet titles to lands in the
city of San Francisco. The settlement which it made was by
a recognition of certain previous grants of the city or of its
officers and the transfer of its title to those who had occupied the lands in good faith during certain periods. As held
by the Supreme Court of California, in its elaborate and exhaustive examination of the law respecting the property rights
of Mexican pueblos, in hart v. Burnett, 15 California, 530,
612, the ordinance was justified by a policy which was analogous to the laws and purposes which gave existence to the
rights of the pueblo. Section two of an order of the common council, passed on the 16th of October, 1856, which was
ratified by the same legislative act of the State which confirmed the Van Ness ordinance, provides that the grant or
relinquishment of title made by that ordinance in favor of the
several possessors of the land should take effect as fully and
completely for the purpose of transferring the city's interest,
and for all other purposes whatsoever, as if deeds of release
and quit-claim had been duly executed and delivered to the
parties individually and by name, and that no further conveyance or act should be necessary to invest such possessors with
the interest, title, rights and benefits which the ordinance
intended or purported to transfer and convey.
The claims of the grantors of the plaintiffs to the title to
the lands, through conveyances from Kissling, and from
Thorne and Center, are fully sustained by the evidence. Kissling settled upon a parcel of the land in relation to which this
suit is brought, in March, 1849. He was at the time a native
of Denihark, but had declared his intention to become an
American citizen, and in the notice which he recbrded of his
claim he represented it as a preemption.right to one hundred
and sixty acres of land in the district of San Francisco. That
claim of itself was of no value whatever, as the lands were not
subject to premption, not being lands of the United States,
nor would they have been even if owned by the United States,

SAN FRANCISCO v. LE ROV.
Opinion of the Court.

except under the town-site act, because they were within the.
limits of what was then a town; but a large portion of the
tract thus taken up was fenced in by Kissling, occupied by
him, and a portion of it cultivated. His occupation was continuous during the whole period required by the ordinance to
enable him to have the benefit of the transfer it made. He,
therefore, acquired as complete a title in the interest which
the city then held in the property as it was possible for the
city to convey, under the Van Ness ordinance and the confirmatory legislation of the State and the United States.
The same may be said of the claim taken up by Thorne and
Center on the 5th of August, 1850, and which purported to
cover sixty acres. Of itself, it was, like the other, of no valid-'
ity, and conferred no rights, for the land was not public land
open to acquisition in that way. But these parties enclosed
the land, occupied and cultivated it, and exercised acts of
ownership over it, until the 15th of July, 1854, when they
sold four and one-half acres of it to one Charles V. Stewart.
They continued, however, to exercise ownership over the
residue during all the period required by the Van Ness ordinance to obtain its benefits and the transfer of title from the
city. As to the four and one-half acres sold, the grantee continued in the possession and use of that portion also, during
the period required by the ordinance.
The title to the lands thus claimed by Kissling, and by
Thorne and.Center, and by Stewart as a purchaser from them
of four and a half acres, became, by operation of that ordinance and the confirmatory legislation mentioned vested in
those parties, and by their conveyance passed to William .J.
Shaw, and was by him conveyed to Eugene L. Sullivan, ad
thence to the plaintiffs in this suit. All the right, title, and
interest which the city held, and which could be conveyed
under the Van Ness ordinance, had therefore passed to Shaw
when the suit to quiet his title was commenced and carried to
judgment in the District Court of the Twelfth Judicial District
Court of the State, and whatever benefit Shaw had acquired
by that decree in his favor enured to the benefit of his grantees, the public rights reserved by the Van Ness ordinance

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

being necessarily excepted. One of those was a reservation,
notwithstanding its grant, of lands then occupied or set apart
for public squares, streets and sites for school houses, city hall,
and other buildings belonging to the corporation; and the
decree in this case should have excepted from its operation the
1.lnds thus reserved. An effort was made before the examiner,
who took the evidence in the case, to. do away with the reservation by the verbal statement of a witness that the premises
described did not include "any school-lots, engine-lots, hospital-lots or property dedicated for street purposes or public
squares;" but such testimony was objected to as incompetent,
and as not being the best evidence the subject admitted of,
odnd the objection was in our judgment well taken. If there
were no reservations, as specified in the ordinance, the fact
should have been established by the public records of the city
and county. Its property reserved by statute from private
ownership for public uses is not to be sacrificed or lost upon
loose verbal testimony of the character offered.
We do not attach any importance, upon this question of
reservation, to the deed of the tide-land commissioners, executed to Sullivan on the 3d of December, 1870, for the State
did not at that time own any tide or marsh lands within
the limits of the pueblo as finally established by the Land
Department. All the marsh lands, so called, which tle State
of California ever owned, were granted to her by the act of
Congress of September 28, 1850, known as the Swamp-land
Act, by which the swamp and overflowed lands within the
limits of certain States, thereby rendered unfit for cultivation,
were granted to the States to enable them to construct the
necessary levees and drains to reclaim them. 9 Stat. c. 84, p.
519. The interest of the pueblo in the lands within its limits
goes back to the acquisition of the country, and precedes the
the passage of that act of Congress. And that act was never
intended to apply to lands held by the United States charged
with any equitable claims of others, which they were bound
by treaty to protect. As to tide-lands, although it may be
stated as a general principle - and it was so held in l1eber v.
Board of JIarbor Commisioners, 18 Wall. 57, 65, - that the

SAN FRANCISCO v. LE ROY.
Opinion of the Court.

titles acquired by the United States to lands in California
under tide-waters, from Mexico, were held in trust for the
future State, so that their ownership and right of disposition
passed to it upon its admission into the Union, that doctrine
cannot apply to such lands as had been previously granted to
other parties by the former government, or subjected to trusts
which would require their disposition in some other way.
When the United States acquired California it was with the
,duty to protect all the rights and "nterests which were held
by the pueblo of San Francisco under Mexico. The property
Tights of pueblos equally with those of individual' were entitled to protection, and provision was made by Congress in
its legislation for their investigation and confirmatiori. Town.send v. Greeley, 5 Wall. 326, 337. The duty of the government and its power in the- execution of its treaty obligations
to protect the claims of all persons, natural and artificial, and
of course of the city of San Francisco as successor to the
pueblo, were superior to any subsequently acquired rights or
claims of the State of California, oi of individuals. The confirmation of the claim of the city necessarily took effect udpon
its title as it existed upon the acquisition of the country. In
confirming it the United States through its tribunals recognized the validity of that title at the date of the treaty- at
least, recognized the validity of the claim to the title as then
existing, and in the execution of its treaty obligations no one
could step in between the government of the United States
and the city seeking their enforcement. It is a matter of
doubt whether there were any lands within the limits of the
pueblo, as defined and established by the Land Department,
that could be considered tide-lands, which, independently of
the pueblo, would vest in the State. The lands which passed
to the State upon her admission to the Union were not those
which were affected occasionally by the tide, but only those
over which tide-water flowed so continuously as to prevent
their use and occupation. To render lands tide-lands, which
the State by virtue of her sovereignty could claim, there must
have been such continuity of the flow of tide-water over them,
or such regularity of theflow within every twenty-four hours,

OCTOBER TERM,. 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

as to render them unfit for cultivation, the growth of grasses,
or other uses to which up-land is applied. But even if there
were such lands, their existence could in no way affect the
rights of the pueblo. Its rights were dependent upon Mexican
laws, and when Mexico established those laws she was the
owner of tide-lands as well as up-lands; and could have placed
the boundaries of her pueblos whereter she thought proper.
It was for the Uai'ed States to ascertain those boundaries
when fixing tho limits of the claim of the city, and that was
done after the most thorough and exhaustive examination
ever given -to the consideration of the boundaries of a claim
of a pueblo under the Mexican government. After hearing
all the testimony which could be adduced, and repeated arguments of counsel, elaborate reports were made on the subject
by three Secretaries of the Interior. They held,, and the
patent follows their decision, that the boundary of the bay,
which the decree of confirmation had fixed as that of ordinary
high-water mark, as it existed on the 7th of July, 1846, crosses
the mouth of all creeks entering the bay. There was, therefore, nothing in the deed of the tide-land commissioners
which could by any possibility impair the right of the city to
exercise the power reserved in the Van Ness ordinance over
such portions of the lands conveyed to occupants under that
ordinance as had been occupied or set apart for streets, squares
and public buildings of the city. Such a reservation should
have been embodied in the decree in this case.
The decree 8hould therefore be modified by ,dding the declaration that nothing therein shall be deemed to imp air in
any respect the rights reserved in the Van lres, ordinance
to the city qf San Francisco,or to its suceesor, the city
and county of San Francisco,over lands that had then
been occupied or set apartfor streets, sguares and public
buildings of the city, and as thus modified be af/Irned;
and it is 8o ordered.

