CASE N'F'G CO. v. SOXNAN.
Statement of the Case.

but only knew in a general way that a scheme existed by
which the funds of the Connecticut company were to be
withdrawn wrongfully from its control, and lent his aid, for
large consideration, to the accomplishing, of such fraudulent
transaction, we do not think he can avoid his liability by proof
that the exact nature and full details of the scheme were not
communicated to him.
The judgraent will be reversed and the ease emandedfor a
new trial.
MR.

JUSTICE BRADLEY

dissents.

CASE MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. SOXMAN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 150. Argued January 16,19, 1891.-

Decded March 2, 1891.

In this case the plaintiff having accepted notes of a limited liability company in settlement, set up that the acceptance was made through a
misunderstanding. Held, that evidence tending to show knowledge that
the plaintiff at the time of the acceptance was a limited liability company
was admissible.
When in a case in which the facts are found by the court instead of a jury,
there is any evidence tending to support the finding, this court wiU not
review it.
It appearing from the evidence of one of the plaintiff's witnesses that
during the dates of these transactions he was acting as its financial manager, his acts in that capacity cannot be repudiated.

Tim case, as stated by the Court, was as follows:
The Case Manufacturing Company, plaintiff in error, is a
corporation located at the city of Columbus, 'State of Ohio,
and engaged in the manufacture and sale of flour milling
machinery. On the 8th of December, 1883, an order was sent
to its home office, received and approved on the 11th of December, which grder, omitting immaterial matters, was, With
thaeceptance, as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

"(Form _ o.2.)
"This form to be used where machines are ordered for
changing over a mill, but where the millwright work is not
done by the Case Manufacturing Co. Fill up three of these
blanks; one for the purchaser, one for the Case Manufacturing
Co., and one for the salesman. Fill up blanks carefully. This
contract to be binding only when signed by the Case Manufacturing Compatry, at its home office at Columbus, Ohio.
"LATROBE, Dec. 8th, 1883.
"The Case Manufacturing Co., Columbus, 0.
" Please ship the undersigned, as near the first day of February, 1883, as possible, the following machinery at and for the
price of eight thousand dollars. . . . We agree to receive
and pay freight on the same and place them in our mill according to your directions; to supply the necessary power and appliances and other machinery required to obtain the best results,
using proper diligence in placing and starting the same. After
starting them we are -to have thirty days' running time in
Which to test them, when, if found up to your guarantee, we
will settle for the same by paying 2000 dollars cash, 2000
dollars by note due 12 months after accepting of the machinoery and 4000 dollars by note due 18 months, at 6 per cent
interest.
"You to guarantee that, with necessary power and proper
-management, the machines shall have capacity for from 100
to 110 barrels of flour in twenty-four hours; that they shall
perform the work they are intended to do as well as any
machines now in use for the same purpose, and the results to
be.equal to those obtained from any of the roller or other
.modei-n.systems of milling now in -use in this country, using
the-same grades of wheat-and an equivalent line of machinery.
We agree to be responsible for any damage or loss by fire- or
otherwise to said machines after they reach us, and agree to
make no -claims for damages on account of delays incident
to. starting, up said mill.
"The title to said machines shall remain in and not pass
from you intil the same are paid for, aid until all the notes

CASE M'F'G CO. v. SOXMAT.

-433

Statement of the Case.

given therefor are fully paid; and in default of payment as
above agreed, you or your agent may take possession of and
remove said machines without legal process.
"LATnow
[LLiNG Co.
"P. H. Soxn&x, Pres.
"IH. C. BEsT, Sec'y.,

" D. J. Soxm , Treas.
"P. 0. address, Latrobe, county of Westmoreland, State of
Pennsylvania.
"Shipping address, Latrobe, county of Westmoreland, State
of Pennsylvania.
"We accept the above order upon the conditions named,
and hereby make the guaranty above set forth this 11th day.
of December, 1883, at Columbus, Ohio.
"CASE MANUFACTURING Co.,

"By 0.

WATSON,

P't.

"All settlements must be made with and all notes given

and moneys paid direct to the Case Manufacturing Co."
On the 20th of October, 1881, the machinery having all
been furnishedl and the mill started, a settlement was made by.
the purchasers with the same agent of plaintiff, Davis, who
had negotiated the sale in'the- first instance. Having already
paid one thousand dollars, a check was &iven for one thousand
more, which was paid; and two notes, one for two thousand
dollars, due' in one year, and- one for four thousand, due in
eighteen months. These notes were not signed with the name
of the Latrobe Milling Company, but were signed "P. H. Soxman, Pres't; H. C. Best, Sec'y," with the seal bearing the
name "Latrobe Milling Company, Limited," impressed upon
it. The agent brought these notes-and money back to Columbus, and turned them over to Mr. Shough, then acting manager, (Mr. Watson, the. president, being ill. The contract was
made when Mr. Watson was both president and the active
manager of the affairs of the company. On receiving these
notes Mr. Shough, dissatisfied with their form, wrote this
letter :
VOL.

cxxxv-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

" COLmBUS, 01O, October 29, 1884.

"Latrobe Milling Company, Latrobe, Pa.
"DEAR Sins: Mr. Davis has handed us your settlement,
which is all satisfactory, with the exception that the notes are
not properly signed. They are only signed by the president
and secretary. They should be signed 'The Latrobe Milling
Company, Limited,' by P. HF. Soxman, president, and H. C.
Best, secretary, and your seal attached. If you are willing to
put them in proper shape, we will send you the notes with
new ones filled out for you to sign and return; otherwise your
settlement is very satisfactory, and we are glad to place you
among our long list cf friends. We are obliged to you for
your good letter, as well as your settlement, and we shall
endeavor to use it when it will do us ,all good. According to
the laws of your State, a corporation is only liable to the
extent of the property they hold, there being no individual
responsibility outside of the property, and, believing that you
are willing to do what is just and right, we will ask you to
assign your insurance policies to us. The notes run for a long
time, and there being no other security on them, we ask you
to do thir for us. Should your mill burn, as it is liable to do,
then it would be optional with you whether you pay us or not.
You will recognize that this is business, and, while we have all
the confidence in you and have very flattering reports about
you, at the same time you will understand that it is the business way of doing, and we have no doubt but what you will
be willing to grant our request.
"Awaiting your early reply and with best wishes, we are,
etc., yours truly,
THE CASE MANUFACTURING CO.,
"By SnouGH-"
Subsequently, the Milling Company sent the following
letter :
"LA.ROBE, Pi., December 2, 1884.

Manufacturing Company.
"DEAR Srn: Enclosed find note corrected as requested; also,
'the insurance policy for $6000, which you will return to me;
will please'pardon, as secretary has been on the road and is
'Case

CASE

CO., v.' SOXMMT.
Statement of the Case.

not at home yet, and I thought it my duty, after getting his
signature, to send to you. The mill is running right along,
only we have a hard time to compete with Mr. Chambersi
across the way, as he has reduced the price to nothing, viz.,
$4.25 per barrel of flour, but the race belongs to the one that
has the most sand to stand up to it.
LTROBE MILLING CO.,
"Yours respectfully,
"ID.J. S."
To which letter the plaintiff returned this reply:
" CoLuMBus, OHIO, -December4, 1884.

"Latrobe Milling Company,,Latrobe, Pa.
"DEAR SiMs: We are "n receipt of the notes, which are all
'0. K.;' also the insurance policies, which we will have the
transfer made on and returned to you to be signed, and have
your agent there endorse the transfer. At the price Chambers
is selling flour there surely is a loss in it, and we hope it won't
take him long to see his folly, and restore the price, so that
you can both make some money.
THE CAsE MANUFACTURING Co.,
"Yours truly,
"By SHOUGH.

"P. S. - Accept thanks for fixing our matters up in proper
shape.
At the time the original order was signed no corporation
defendant existed. The parties were contemplating the formation of a corporation or association, and 6 n May 5, 1884,
they did form, under authority of the general law of the State
of Pennsylvania, an association known under the name "Latrobe Milling Company, Limited," by which the liability of
the parties interested in the new association was limited to
the amount of the capital stock, and the notes given in the settlement were the notes of this limited liability compan . Mr.
Watson, the president of the plaintiff corporation, died in the
winter of 1884-1885. Thereafter, John F. Oglevee became. its
secretary and treasurer and general manager of its affairs.
The first note not being paid when due, in the fall of 1885,
Oglevee visited Latrobe to look after its payment. Subse-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

quently, examining the records in the county-seat of Westmoreland County, in which Latrobe lies, he found judgments.
against the Milling Company and mortgages upon its property.
Shortly after this discovery he returned to Columbus, and
thereupon the plaintiff company returned the two notes which
it had received, alleging that they did not conform to the contract, and demanded payment of the first note, two thousand
dollars and interest, and in lieu of the second, a new note, executed by the Latrobe Milling Company, and not by the limited liability company. The defendants refused to comply
with this demand, and returned the notes to the plaintiff.
Thereafter this suit was brought. To this suit the defendants
pleaded that it was understood at the time of the original contract that they were to organize a corporation with limited liability, and that its notes were to be the notes to be given for
deferred payments. Secondly, that after the organization, and
after the delivery of the machinery, the plaintiff, with knowledge of the facts, accepted the notes in full payient and satisfaction of the debt. When the case came on for trial a jury
was waived. Findings of fact were made, and a judgment
dntered thereon in favor of defendants, to review which thes
proceedings in error have been brought to this court.
3Cr. Charles E. Burr and 3Cr. James S. Hloorheadfor plaintiff in error. 3Cr. James IVatsom was on the brief.
Xr. PauZ H. Gaither for defendants in error. Xr. W H.
Young and .A6,. J. A. Marchand were on the brief.
MRIg. JUsTICE

BPEwER delivered the opinion of the court.

The first question is as to the admission of the testimony of

t.C. Best, a witness for and one of the defendants, as to conversations between them and the plaintiff's agent Davis, at
the time the original contract was signed. The scope of this
testimony was substantially that they proposed to organize a
corporation, with limited liability, that the purchase was to be
made in the interest of such corporation, and that its obligations were-to be giyen, for the deferred payments. The con-

CASE MI'F'G CO. v. SOXXAN.
Opinion of the Court.

tention is, that this testimony varied the original contract, and
was, therefore, inadmissible.
The first and obvious reply is, that it makes against the contention of plaintiff that .it- acceptance of the notes of the
limited liability company was through a misunderstanding.
Whatever obligations may have been assumed by the original
contract, the fact that the plaintiff knew that the contemplation of the purchasing parties was a limited liability company,
and that on the delivery of the machinery it accepted the
notes of such company, is evidence strong, if not convincing,
that its acceptance of such notes was not through a mistake,
but from a recognition of the understanding between the parties at the time of the original contract. How can the plaintiff, knowing that the expressed understanding of the purchasers at the time of the original contract was the creation of a
limited liability company, and the giving of its notes in satisfaction of the deferred payments, now be permitted to say
that the written contract spoke of no such limited liability
company, and that it took the notes of such a company.
through misunderstanding and mistake? Whatever other significance and value such testimony may have, it is certainly
significant and competent upon the question whether the acceptance of the -notes of this limited liability company was
intentional or through mistake.
Further than that, the original contract upon its face suggesteOd corporate rather than personal liability. The signatures
were "Latrobe Milling Company. P. H. Soxman, Pres't. H.
C. Best, Sec'y. D. J. Soxman, Treas." While if there were
no corporation such signatures might impose personal liability.;
yet the purport and notice of such signatures was corporate,
and not individual, liability. When to that is added the
knowledge of the plaintiff as to the character of the prbposed
corporation, and its acceptance of the notes of the corporation
in fact organized, can it be doubted that the plaintiff keiew the
significance of these signatures, or that it was knowingly dealing with a contemplated corporation, and knowingly accepted
the notes of such corporation as a fulfilment of all the contract
obligations assumed by this instrument? The idea that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff supposed it was dealing with individuals, and contemplated personal' liability, is also negatived by the letter of
October 29, 1884, which shows that it understood that it was
dealing with a corporation, and that, by the laws of Pennsylvania, corporate liability extended not beyond the assets of the
corporation, and cast no burden upon the individual stockholders. The parol testimony thus admitted was not to contradict the language of the written contract, but to explain
any doubt as to its meaning, and to fortify the claim of the
defendants that the subsequent acceptance of the notes of the
limited liability company was no departure from the thought
of the original contract, but a well understood and intentional
recognition of its real meaning. We see no error in the
admission of this testimony.
The second and third assignments of error may be, considered together. They present the proposition that the court
erred in finding that the notes of the limited liability company
of October 20, 1884, were accepted as payment and satisfaction of the original liability under the contract. Htere we
face the proposition that we are not triers of fact. And if
there were evidence upon which such a finding might properly
rest, we should accept the finding as conclusive, and inquire
no further into the testimony than we should into its sufficiency
to sustain the verdict of a jury. Surely the facts that we
have already referred to, the correspondence between the
parties, is some, if not satisfactory and conclusive evidence
that these notes were accepted as closing out the original contract. The conduct of the plaintiff tends to support this view.
It took the check of the limited liability company for one
thousand dollars and received from it certain notes; and then,
stating that it was aware that no liability attached beyond the
amoufit of the property of the corporation, it requested and
received a change of notes into the supposed proper form of
obligations of the limited liability company, and also insurance
policies on the property, and then using one of these notes by
way of discount, treated the matter as closed for more than a
year. Supposing this first note discounted by the plaintiff had
been paid -by the-AMilling Company, could the plaintiff then be

SIMMONS v. SAUL.
Syllabus,

heard to say that these notes were not received in payment?
While, in fact, it was not paid, yet the plaintiff treated it as
its property and negotiated it. Can it now be heard to say
that such note was simply evidence of the amount due, when
it received and used it as its property? It is unnecessary to
affirm that these matters show conclusively that the obligations assumed by the original contract were, satisfied and discharged by the settlement and notes of October, 1884. It is
enough to affirm that there is in the~e matters testimony from
which such a conclusion might be drawn; and, therefore, the
findings of the trial court in this respect cannot by this court
be ignored.
The fourth allegation of error is, that notwithstanding the
acts of Mr. Shough may have apparently been such as to bind
the company plaintiff, he had, in fact, no authority to bind the
company by such acts. It is sufficient to say in respect to
this matter, that his own testimony, corroborated by that of
other members of the company, is that during the dates of
these transactions he was acting as its financial manager, and,
therefore, it cannot now repudiate its liability for his actions.
These are the only errors alleged, and in them we see nothing to justify us in disturbing the rulings of the trial court.
Afrm.
The judgment is, therefore,

SIMMONS v. SAUL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 1585. Submitted January 9,1891.-DecidedMarch 2,1891.

The constitutional provision that full faith and credit shall be given in each
State to the judicial proceedings of other States does not preclude inquiry into the jurisdiction of the court in which a judgment is rendered
over the subject matter or the parties affected by it, nor into the factb
necessary to give such jurisdiction.
In 1872 parish courts in Louisiana were vested with original and exclusive
jurisdiction over the administration of vacant and intestate successions.

