HEATH v. WALLA E.
Opinion of the Court.

any future claim under the prospective clause. If it were any
evidence at all of such intent, it might properly be submitted
to a jury, but defendants had no right to a peremptory instruction in their favor.
This disposes of all .the material questions involved, and it
results that the judgment of the court below must be
-4fflirrned.

HEATH v. WALLACE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
'o. 528. Submitted January 9, 1891. -Decided

March 2, 1891.

The question whether or not lands returned as "subject to periodical overflow " are" swamp and overflowed lands" is a question of fact, properly
determinable by the Land Department, whose decisions, on matters of
fact, within its jurisdiction, are, in the absence of fraud or imposition,
conclusive and binding on the courts of the country, and not subject to
review here.
Whether or not a survey made by an officer of the State of California is a
"segregation survey" as defined by the act of the legislature of that
State, approved Mlay 13, 1861, is question on which this court will follow

the decision of the highest court of that State.

THE federal question is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. -. T. Britton and .Mr. A. B. Browne for plaintiff in
error.
..3r.James K. 1eddington and Xr William, J. Johnston for
defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE

LAxR delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action of ejectment in one of the state courts'of
California, to recover the possession of a tract of one hundred
and sixty acres of land in San Joaquin County in that State,
particularly described as the northwest quarter of section
23, township 3 north, range 7 east, Mouit Diablo base and
meridian.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiff below, who is also the plaintiff in error, set up
a title derived from the State, claiming that the land was a
part of its swamp land grant under the act of September 28,
1850, as confirmed by the act of July 23, 1866. The defendant filed a general denial, and claimed title in himself, under
the preemption laws of the United States; and in a supplemental answer alleged that, since the commencement of the
action, to wit, on the 1st day of June, 1882, he had received
a patent to the land from the United States.
A jury having been waived, the case was tried by the court,
which made a special finding of facts and rendered judgment in favor of the defendant. That judgment having been
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State, 71 California, 50,,
this writ of error was sued out.
The material facts of the case, as found by the trial court,
are substantially as follows: The United States subdivisional
survey of the township in which the land in dispute is situated
was made by deputy United States surveyor John Wallace, in
the year 1865, and the survey, with the field-notes and plat
thereof, was duly approved aild the approval certified by the
United States surveyor general for California on the 23d of
August of that year. The official plat of the survey was-filed
-in the United States land office at Stockton (that being the
land district in which the land was situated) on the 18th of
October, 1865, and a certified copy of the field and descriptive
notes of the survey was filed in that land office on or about
June 17, 1881.
A considerable part of the plat, including section 23, was
colored blue, to distinguish it from the other portions of it, and
thereon was written "Land subject to periodical overflow."
The field-notes of the survey state that in running the east
line of this section the surveyor crossed three sloughs having
a westerly course, one 30, one 50, and the other 80 links wide;
and that in running the west line two sloughs, each 50- links
wide and having the same general course, were crossed. And
the descriptive notes made mention that the section was firstrate, level land, subject in some places to "overflow from
slough." These designations represented that the land colored

HEATH v. WALLACE.
Opinion of. the Court.

blue was subject to inundation by the ove'flow of the Calaveras River and its branches, and was thus rendered incapable of
being cultivated for the raising of crops, except by means of
banks and levees which had been erected to prevent the overflow of the water during the winter and spring months.
In April, 1865, HI. T. Hartwell made an application, under
the laws of California, to purchase the tract in dispute from
the State, as swamp and overflowed enuring to it under the
swamp land grant, and on the 28th of that month the county
surveyor of San Joaquin County made a survey, and recorded
a plat and field-notes thereof, in accordance with the law of
the State and the instructions of the State surveyor general,
which plat and field-notes showed the survey of the county
surveyor to be in accordance with the United States survey of
the township, and the land to be swamp and overflowed.
This plat and the field-notes accompanying it were filed with
the State surveyor general on the 22d day of October, 1865,
and were duly approved by hin on the 23d of November following.
It does not appear that any further action was taken on
this application. In April, 1869, Hartwell made another
application to purchase the tract from the State, under the act
of the California legislature, approved March 28, 1868. A
survey thereof was accordingly made by the county surveyor,
which made the same showing as the former one, and, together
with the field-notes thereof, was filed with the State surveyor
general on the 4th of May, 1869, and approved by him November 12, 1869. On the 19th of April, 1870, the State of California issued and delivered to Hartwell a certificate of purchase of the land in suit, founded on the last application and
survey, which certificate set forth that Hartwell had made
part pa ,ment of the purchase price and was the purchaser of
the land, and that, on making full payment and surrendering
the certificate, he should receive a patent of the State for the
same. On the 1st of April, 1871, Hartwell sold this certificate
to the plaintiff, to whom a patent of the State was issued on
the 21st of July, 1876, in accordance with the provisions of
the laws of the State relating to swamp and overflowed lands.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Prior to thisY however, January 10, 1866, Hartwell filed a
preemption declaratory statement for the land, alleging settlement thereon September 20, 1862, which was formally relinquished October 29, 1873, and cancelled December 8 of that
year. No other claim was ever made to the land, under any
of the laws of the United States relating to the disposition of
the public lands, until the 24th. of July, 1876, when the defendant Wallace presented a pregmption declaratory statement
therefor to the register of the land office at Stockton, alleging
settlement on the 25th of April preceding, which that officer
refused to file, endorsing thereon, as his reason for such refusal,
that the land had been returned as subject to periodical overflow. Wallace appealed to the commissioner of the general
land office, and on the 5th of September, 1876, that officer
wrote the register and receiver of the Stockton land office,
saying that the land in question was claimed by the State
under the first section of the act of July 23, 1866, as having
been sold, in good faith, as swamp land, prior to that date,
and directing those officers to give notice to the State authorities, to Wallace, and to all other parties in interest, and hold
an investigation to determine the said claim of the State.
That investigation having been held, the local land officers, on
the 8th of February, 1877, decided that the State had no valid
claim to the land under the first section of the act of July 23,
1866. The commissioner of the general land office affirmed that,
decision on the 19th of May, 1877, and further adjudged that
the State was not entitled to show the character of the land
as swamp and overflowed, under the 4th clause of the 4th section of that act. The State appealed to the Secretary of the
Interior, who, on the 28th of December, 1877, overruled the
commissioner in that behalf, and directed a hearing to be
given to" the State on- the question of the character of the
land, by virtue of the 4th clause of the 4th section of the act.
. Pursuant to the decision of the Secretary of the Interior,
after notice to all parties in interest, the United States surveyor general held an investigation as to the character of the
land, and decided that the land was not in fact swamp and
overflowed on the 28th of September, 1850, the date of the

HEATH v. WALLACE.
Opinion of the Court.

general swamp land act.

The decision of the surveyor gen-

eral was affirmed by the Secretary of the Interior on the 25th
of February, 1881, who also adjudged that the land was subject to disposal under the preemption laws, ud that Wallace
should be allowed to perfect his preemption claim thereto.
Wallace afterwards complied with the provisions of the preemption law, and in June, 1882, received a patent to the land
from the United States.
After this patent was issued, the State of California applied
to the Interior Department to have the laud certified over to
her, by virtue of the provisions of the first and second clauses
of the 4th section of the act of July 23, 1866, and the first
and second clauses of section 2488, together with section 2479,
of the Revised Statutes. This application was denied by the
commissioner of the general land office, April 26, 1883, upon
the ground that a patent having been issued to Wallace for
the tract, the department had no further jurisdiction over the
matter. That decision was affirmed by the Secretary of the
Interior, March 3, 1884, upon the same ground.
There is no record in the United States Land Department
showing a selection of this land by the State, as swamp and
overflowed land, or any certification thereof to the State by
the United States, except in so far as the foregoing proceedings show a selection.
The plaintiff insisted in the court below that the land passed
to the State of California, as swamp and overflowed land,
either under the first clause of section 4 of the act of July 23,
1866, 14 Stat. 218, 219, c. 219, or under the second clause of
the same section, both of which clauses are substantially
embodied in section 24:88 of the Revised Statutes; and that,
therefore, by virtue of his patent from the State, he had
acquired whatever right the State possessed under either or
both of those clauses of the statute. They provide as follows:
"That in all cases where township surveys have been, or
shall hereafter be, made under authority of the United States,
and the plats thereof approved, it shall be the duty of the
commissioner of the general land office, to -certify over to the
State of California, as swamp and overflowed, al" the lalds
vot. OxXXVM-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

represented as such, upon such approved plats, within one
year from the passage of this act, or within one year from
the return and approval of such township plats.
"The commissioner shall direct the United States surveyor
general for the State of California to examine the segregation
maps and surveys of the swamp and overflowed lands made
by said State; and where he shall find them to conform to
the system of surveys adopted by the United States, he shall
construct and approve township plats accordingly, And forward
to the general land office for approval."
The Supreme Court of California held that the State never
acquired any title to the tract under the first clause of said
section 4, because the land was not represented upon the
approved township plat as swamp and overflowed, within the
meaning of the swamp land acts, the designation "subject to
periodical overflow" not being identical with, or equivalent
to, the description of lands enuring to the State under those
acts; and that the State did not acquire any title under the
second clause of the section for the following reasons: "We
are of opinion that the surveys and plats made, as in this case,
under the acts of 1863 and 1868, on the application of a party
desiring to purchase the tract sought to be purchased, are not
the segregation maps and surveys referred to in the act of
Congress of July 23, 1866, and the section of the Revised
Statutes above referred to. Granting the survey and plat
made on the application of Hartwell to purchase a specific
tract of land (the northwest quarter in controversy) was a
segregation map and survey, such as is embraced within the
above-quoted clause from t.he act of 1866, it does not appear
that the commissioner gave any direction to the United States
surveyor general for this State, as required by the act, or that
if such order was given it was complied with, or that any
township plat was made under this order, or, if made, that it
was approved at the general land office."
It is to these two rulings that error is assigned and argument is principally directed. The first question presented for
our consideration, therefore, is this: Was this land represented
upon the approved township plat, or did the approved town-

HEATH v. WALLACE.
Opinion of the Court.

ship survey and plat, including the field and descriptive notes
of the survey, represent it as swamp and overflowed land,
within the meaning of the act of July 23, 1866? If it was so
represented, then, under the first clause of said sectiQn 4, it
was confirmed to the State, without any certification thereof
by the commissioner of the general land office, after one year
from the date of the act. Wright v. Roseberry, 121 U. S.
488; Tubbs v. Wilhioit, ante, 134.
As held in TuM8 v. W'ilhoit, supra, this section of the
statute established rules or methods for the idettificatikn of
swamp and overflowed lands in California which superseded
all previous rules or methods for that purpose. The several
rules or methods provided for were intended to meet any
emergnncy that might arise, and thus give to the State all the
swamp and overflowed lands within her limits. The method
provided in the first clause was but one of several specified in
the section. But one thing was required to be shown under
this clause - only one kind of evidence as to the character of
the lands was necessary- in order to give to the State the
right to demand the certification of them over to her as
swamp and overflowed lands; and that evi'dence the United
States furnished in the plat of the survey of the township in
which the lands were situated. An inspection of the township plat wbuld show whether or not any lands in the township were returned as swamp and overflowed. If they were,
that designation was sufficient and conclusive evidence, under
the'first clause of §ection 4 of the act, to establish the title of
the State to thern. But as that particular designation was
but one of several methodsof identification prescribed by the
act, it should not be.unnpcessarily extepded beyond its plain
and obvious import. For if lands which, in fact, were swamp
and overflowed, were not so designated on the approved plat
of the township, the State was not precluded from claiming
them as swamp and overflowed, and having them identified
by onie of the other methods provided by the act. She still
had recourse to the methods of identification provided by the
second and fourth clauses of the section, and if the lands were
in fact swamp could not fail to get them. On the other hand,

OCTOBER TERIM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the United States were bound by the action of the surveyor
if he noted on his survey that the lands were swamp and
overflowed, and that survey was approved. We think, therefore, that while the act of July 23, 1866, may be called remedial in its character, yet the particular clause of the statute,
operating as it does in the nature of an estoppel against the
grantor and not so against the grantee, should not be construed as embracing more than its terms will fairly warrant.
In other words, this designation, operating as 'an estoppel
against the United States, should have a strict construction.
No lands should be considered as embraced within the terms
"swamp and overflowed" by mere implication, simply because
they may have been described in other terms which, in some
instances, might be equivalent to the terms prescribed by the
act. If, in any instance, terms claimed to be equivalent to
those prescribed by the first clause of the fourth section of
the act of 1866 can be shown by evidence to have reference to
lands not contemplated by the swamp land grant, as enuring
to the State under that grant, then such terms cannot be considered as equivalent to the terms "swamp and overflowed."
The question before us thus resolves itself into one of the
definition of words or terms, rather than one of the interpretation of a statute. To arrive at a proper determination of
the question, therefore, it will be useful to refer to some of the
adjudications of the Interior Department upon the subject; for
the survey of the public lands, being confided to certain officers
of that department, the meaning of the descriptive terms used
by those officers in performing that duty is best known there.
In one sense, the language of the survey is technical, and it
should, therefore, be taken according 'to the acceptation of
those most familiar with its use and significance.
In Wallace v. State -of Califo~mia,2 Copp's Pub. Land Laws,
(1882) 1057, 1058, involving the same ],nd here in controversy,
(the decision referred to above as having been made by the
Secretary of the Interior on the 28th of December, 1877,) Mr.
Secretary Schurz said: "The first clause of the said 4th section of the act of 1866 provides, that in cases where the town-.
\Ships had been surveyed by the United States, and the plats

HEATH v. WALLAOE.
Opinion of the Court.

approved, the lands returned as swamp and overflowed were
to be certified to the State without further action; hence, no
hearing as to the character of the land is necessary. In the
case under consideration, however, the township was surveyed
by the United States prior to July 23, 1866, and the land is
returned by the surveyor general as subject to Iperiodical overflow,' and not as 'swamp and overflowed,' as provided in the
statute; hence, it is not subject to certification to the State by
virtue of the return of the surveyor general. The State, however, claims the land as swamp. A question is thus raised as
to the correctness of the return of the officer, and a hearing
is requested, that the facts in the case may be ascertained. I
find nothing in either the act of September 28, 1850, or July
23, 1866, which debars the State of this right; on the contrary,
it is expressly guaranteed in the 4th clause of the 4th section
above quoted."
In Californiav. United States, decided May 1, 1885, 3 Land
Dec. 521, 521, involving part of section 27, in the same township, it was said: "Again, the approved plat of survey of this
township and the return of the deputy have been passed upon
by this department in the case of Tfallace v. State qf California,
involving the northwest I of section 23, which corners upon
the section embracing the land in controversy. In that case,
it was held that ' the township was surveyed by the United
States prior to July 23, 1866,' and the land is returned by the
surveyor general as subject 'to periodical overflow,' and not as
' swamp and overfl6wed,' as provided in the statute; hence, it
is not subject to certification to the. State by virtue of the return of the surveyor general; and also that where a- question
is raised as to the correctness of the return of the officer, a
hearing should be ordered in accordance with the provisions of
the fourth clause of the fourth section of the act of July 23,
1866."
Upon review of the same case, February 5, 1886, 4 Land
Dec. .371, it was said:." There can be no question that the
returns of the surveyor general did not, represent said land as
swamp and overflowed within the meaning of ihe act of September 28, 1850. Ihaddition to the adjudication of this de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

partment in the case of Wallace v. T]ie State of California, in
which it was expressly held that the land in said township
was not subject to certification to the State, by virtue of the
return of the surveyor general, United States Deputy Surveyor
Wallace testified at the hearing as follows: 'Q. Did you consider this land in question swamp land at the time you made
that survey? A. No. I considered those distinct from swamp
lands; if they had been swamp lands I should have entered it
so in my notes.'"
In California v. Fleming, decided August 7, 1886, 5 Land
Dec. 37, 38, involving, among other lands, part of the same
quarter section here in dispute, it was said: "The lands in
controversy were returned by the surveyor general as 'lands
subject to. periodical overflow,' and hence were not subject to
certification to the State by virtue of the return of the surveyor general."
Those adjudications, covering a consecutive period of nearly
nine years, and, so far as can be gathered from the printed reports of the decisions of that, department relating to public
lands, -being the only ones bearing upon the subject, ought to
be taken as showing conclusively the meaning attached to the
phrase "land subject to periodical overflow," by the officers of
the department whose duty it is, and has been, to administer
the swamp land grant.
Moreover, if the question be considered in a somewhat different light, viz. as the contemporaneous construction of a
statute by those officers of the government whose duty it is to
administer it, then the case would seem to be brought within
the rule announced at a very early day in this court, and reiterated in a very large number of cases, that the construction
given to a statute by those charged with the execution of it is
always entitled to the most respectful consideration, and ought
not to be overruled without cogent reasons. For, as said in
United States v. -Moore, 95 U. S. 760, 763, "the officers concerned are usually able men and masters of the subject. Not
unfrequently they are the draftsmen of the laws they are
afterwards called upon to interpret." See Hastings &c.
Railroad Co. v. Whitney, 132 U. S. 357, 366, and cases there
cited; Schell v. Fauche, ante, 562.

HEATH v. WALLACE.
Opinion of the Court.

But we are not disposed to rest our judgment on this branch
of the case upon the foregoing propositions alone. We are of
opinion that the construction by the Interior Department of
the clause of the act of July 23, 1866, which we are now considering, is the proper one. In this connection, we are not unmindful of the rule that the field and descriptive notes of a
survey form a part of the survey, and are to be considered
along with the plat of the townships to which they relate.
Oragin v. Powell, 128 U. S. 691, 696. As already- indicated,
it is by reference to the plat, together with the field and descriptive notes of the survey, that it is c be determined whether
or not the land will inure to the State, and be confirmed, by
virtue of the first clause of section 4 of the act of 1866. An
inspection of the field-notes of this section of land showed
that, in six different places, in running the lines, the surveyor
crossed "sloughs" ranging from 20 to 80' links in width, all
having a westerly or northwesterly course. The descriptive
notes showed the land to be level, first rate, "subject to overflow," or "subject to overflow from slough." As a conclusion
from those data, the surveyor wrote across the face of that
part of the plat embracing the land in controversy, "Land
subject to periodical overflow." The third finding of fact
states that those designations represented that the body of
land to which they applied (and which was colored blue on
the plat-to distinguish it from other portions of the plat) was
"subject to inundation-by the overflow of the Calaveras River
and its branches, a-Ad is thus rendered incapable of being cultivated for the raising of crops, except by means of banks and
levees which have -been erected to prevent the overflow of the
water during th6 winter and spring months." This general
description on the plat of the township, must be read in the
light of the field-notes of the boundary lines, and the annotations made upon the plat. The Secretary of the Interior in
Californic v. United States, 3 Land Dec. 521, 523, referring
to this 'same township plat, said: "Upon the margin appears
this note, ' The lands represented upon this map as subject to
periodical overflow can be cultivated and crops raised there6n,
as returned by the deputy."' And at another place he said

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

that the register "certifies that the only land designated on
said official plat as swamp and overflowed land, is situated in
the north half of section 5 of said township." Thus showing
clearly that the department considered that a radical distinction existed between lands returned as "subject to periodical
overflow" and those returned as "swamp and overflowed;"
. and showing also that these lands were not considered "swamp
and overflowed" lands. We think we inav take judicial notice of such official statements made by the head of one of the
branches of the Executive Department, especially as they
relate to the public records under his control. I Greenleaf on
Ev. § 479; Jones v. United States, 137 U. S. 202, and authorities there cited.
iNow, lands "subject to overflow," or "subject to overflow
from slough," or "subject to periodical overflow," are not necessarily such as come within the descriptive terms of those
enuring to the State under the swamp land grant. Whether
the terms "swamp" and "overflowed" when connected by
tlie particle "and" be taken together as a general term of
description for the lands granted by the swamp land act, or
whether those terms are separable and refer to two different
qualities of lands thus granted, makes little or no difference in
this consideration. If the former theoi'y be the correct one,
then manifestly the meaning of the phrase is entirely different
from the phrase "subject to periodical overflow." And if the
latter theory be adopted, still we think there is a marked distinction between the terms "overflowed" and "subject to
periodical overflow." The term "overflowed" as thus used,
has reference to a permanent condition of the lands to which
it is applied. It has reference to those lands which are overflowed and will remain so without reclamation or drainage;
while "subject to periodical overflow" has reference to a
condition which may or may not exist, and which when it
does exist is of a temporary character. It was never intended
that all the public lands which perchance might be temporarily overflowed at the time of freshets and high waters, but
which, for the greater portion of the year, were dry lands,
should be granted to the several States as "swamp and over-

HEATH v. WALLACE.
Opinion of the Court.

flowed" lands. At any rate, the question whether or not
lands returned as "subject to periodical overflow" are within
the descriptive terms of those granted by the swamp land act
-

that is, whether they are "swamp and overflowed," - is a

question of fact properly determinable by the land department. It is settled by an unbroken line of decisions of this
court in land jurisprudence that the decisions of that department upon matters of fact within its jurisdiction, are, in the
absence of fraud or imposition, conclusive and binding on the
courts of the country. Johnson, v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 72;
Smelting Company v. emp, 104 U. S. 636; Steel v. Smelting
(o., 106 U. S. 447; United States v. tino', 114 U. S. 233;
and many other cases. We are of opinion, therefore, that the
decision of the land department on a question of the actual
physical character of certain lands is not subject to review
by the courts. And that consideration is sufficient io dispose
of the first assignment of error against the plaintiff in error.
Ve do not think the second assignment of error can be sustained. The surveys and plats made upon the application of
iHartwell to purchase the tract were not the segregation surveys
referred to in the second clause of the fourth section of the act
of July 23, 1866. As said in Tubbs v. Wilhoit, supra, 131, that
clause "provided for the construction of township plats where
none previously existed. It required the commissioner of the
general land office to direct the United States surveyor general
for California to examine the segregation maps and surveys
of the swamp and overflowed lands made by the State, and
directed that when he should find them to be in conformity
with the system of surveys adopted by the United States he
should construct and approve township plats accordingly, and
forward'them to the general land office for approval." See'also
W'ight v. RosebeTy, 121 U. S. 488, 513, 514. After the United
States surveys had been made,-there was no necessity for any
further survey, by the State in order to locate the swamp
lands. In fact there could be no state survey after that date
of any recognized force.
The segregation maps referred to in that clause were such
as were directed by the act of the legislature of California

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

approved May 13, 1861. (Session Laws of 1861, c. 352, page
355.) That act provided, among other things, as follows:
"SEC. 19. The county surveyors of the several counties of
this State shall, immediately after the -organization of the
board of commissioners, proceed to segregate the swamp and
overflowed lands within their respective counties from the
high lands in said counties, and make complete maps of all
the swamp and overflowed lands within their respective counties, in legal subdivisions of sections and parts of sections,
together with a tabular statement of all such lands as have
been sold by the State, and under what act the same were,
sold, of all 4lands claimed and by whom claimed, and, as nearly
as possible, by what title the same are held, and file the said
tabular statement in the county recorder's office of their respective counties, and also transmit duplicates of said maps to
the surveyor general of the State: Provided, however, That it
shall be discretionary with the board of commissioners whether
land already surveyed and segregated under a former act for
the sale and reclamation of swamp and overflowed lands shall
be segregated or surveyed under this act."
"S1EC. 21. The surveyor general shall compile a general
map of the State in duplicate, showing all the swamp and
overflowed lands of the State which shall have been returned
by the county surveyors as the property of the State, together
with the county boundary lines where crossing the same. He
shall also enter thereon the number corresponding with the affidavit ; he shall also compile from the testimony received, and
on file in his office, a general schedule of the swamp lands in
the State by their description. lHe shall also distinguish on
said map the lands already sold by the State as swamp and
overflowed; he shall prepare a report showing any case in
which the swamp lands have been infringed upon by tha
United States government surveys."
No survey such as described in those sections of the laws ol
California was ever made of the land in dispute. The surveys
that weie made upon the application of Hartwell to purchase
the tract do not come within that description. They were,
in reality, mere private surveys. Moreover, the phrase "seg-

DUCIE v. FORD.
Syllabus.

regation surveys," as used in the act of 1866, means such segregation surveys as are defined and described by the aforesaid
act of the legislature of the State, and are made by state
officers; and it would seem, therefore, that whether or not a
survey made by an officer of the State is a segregation survey, as defined by the act of the state legislature- is one on
which this court will follow the decision of the state court. It
is in reality a construction of a state statute. The Supreme
Court of the State has invariably held such maps or plats not
to be the segregation maps referred to in th act of July 23,
1866. Sutton v. Fassett, 51 California, 12; Pe(qle v. Cowell,
60 California, 400. For these reasons we hold that the second
specification of error cannot be sustained.
There are no other features of the case that call for further
consideration or even special mention. We see no error in
the decision of the Supreme Court of California prejudicial to
the plaintiff in error, and its judgment is

Afflrned.

DUCIE v. FORD.
APPRA

FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
MONTANA.
No. 777. Submitted January 8,1891.-Decided March 2,1891.

A trust may result to him who pays the consideration for real estate where
the title is taken out in the name of another, which is not within the
statute of frauds, and it may be shown, by parol testimony, whose money
was actually paid for it; but such.trust must have arisen at the time the
purchase was made, and the whole consideration must have been paid or
secured at the time of, or prior to, the purchase, and a bill in equity to
enforce it must show without ambiguity or equivocation that the whole
of the consideration appropriate to that share of the land which the
plaintiff claims by virtue of such payment, was paid before the deed was
taken.
Two parties had located and claimed a lode. Plaintiffs were preparing to
contest defendant's application for a patent when it was agreed oral:.
that they should relinquish to him such possession as they had, in consideration of his agreeing to purchase the land upon their joint account.

