RUSSELL v. POST.
Opinion of the Court.

RUSSELL v. POST.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 126. Argued January 5, 1891.-Decided March 2,1891.

When, in the trial of a civil action charging a conspiracy to defraud, it appears in evidence that a loan, charged to have been an instrument in the
conspiracy, was not an ordinary business transaction; that the compensation paid for it to the lender was so excessive as to be suspicious; that
the purpose on the part of the borrower in taking the loan was the
accomillishment of an act criminal in itself and made criminal by statute; and when the surrounding circumstances proved in the case tend to
charge the lender with knowledge of the wrongful purpose of the borrower, the case should not be witllrawn from the jury, but it should be
submitted in order that they may determine whether the loan was made
with -intentto consummate the wrong, and whether the lender knowingly
assisted in accomplishing it.

AT LAw.

The case is stated in the opinion.

31r. Talcott H. _?sael and -Mr. Simeon E. Baldwin, for
plaintiff in error,
Aflr. William, G. Choate and Xr. I. Zaflin
fendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

ellogg for de-

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff here, plaintiff below, is the receiver of the
American National Life and Trust Company of New Haven.
This action, originally commenced in the Supreme Court of
the city .and county of New York, and thence removed to the
Circuit Court for the Southern District of -NewYork, is one to
recover damages resulting from certain alleged fraudulent acts
by the defendant Post, who alone answered, in conjunction
with other parties, by which a large quantity of valuable
assets were abstracted from the possession of the American
National Life and Trust Company and wholly lost to it.
The company was an insurance company, organized under

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the laws of the State of Connecticut. Proceedings were duly
instituted for winding up its affairs and annulling its charter,
and under these proceedings the plaintiff was'appointed receiver and authorized to maintain this action. This appointment was made on November 8, 1878. Some time before his
appointment a large bulk of the assets of the corporation were
transferred to the National Capital Insurance Company of
Washington, D. C., and wholly lost to the Connecticut corporation, as well as to the parties, having policies in such company.
The contention of plaintiff is, that this transfer and loss of
assets of the Connecticut corporation was brought about by a
conspiracy, and through the fraudulent acts of defendant
Post, with others. The case was tried before a jury; and at
the close of the testimony the judge, ruling that the plaintiff
had made out no case, and proved nothing which justified any
submission of matters of fact to the .jury, directed a verdict
for the defendant. The record, .therefore, transmitted here by
proper proceedings in error, presents the question, not whether
the plaintiff was entitled to recover all the damages he claimed,
not what was the measure of damages, if he was entitled-to
recover, not even whether upon the facts the jury was bound
to return a verdict in his favor, but whether there was sufficient testimony to require-a submission of the questions to the
determination of a jury. We are of the opinion that there
was such sufficient evidence, and that, therefore, the judgment
must be reversed, and the case remanded for a new trial.
We premise what we have to say with the remark that we
express no opinion as to. the extent of the recovery which
should be had, if any, or the measure of damages, nor do we
wish to be understood. as asserting that the verdict ought to
have been in favor of the plaintiff. We simply hold, for rea
sons hereafter stated, that there was presented by the testimony matters of 'act vital to the controversy, upon which the
plaintiff.had a right to the opinion 'of. the jury, and which* it
was error for the court to withdraw from its judgment. It is
necessary for the just disposition. of this case that a fuller
statement of the disputed and undisputed facts should be made.

RUSSELL v. POST.

427,

Opinion- of the Court.

In the fall of 1875, Benjamin Noyes, of New Haven and
Henry D. Walker, of Boston, were officers of the Connecticut
company, which was then in failing circumstances, though
possessed of assets amounting to several hundred thousand
dollars. Personal liability was supposed to attach to these
gentlemen, but whether this was so or not in fact, is immaterial. The condition of the company was known to defendant
Post; at least, he was fully advised of suspicion and charges,
because, on an inquiry instituted by the insurance commissioner of the State of Connecticut, he had been called as a
witness as to the value of certain securities held by it. On or
about December 5, 1875, Noyes and Walker, with others,
bought the franchises of the National Capital Insurance Company of Washington, D. C., a company without property or
business, and paid four thousand dollars for the purchase.
Conspiring to secure themselves from liability, and to wreck
for their own benefit the Connecticut company, a scheme was
devised for the reinsurance of the risks of the Connecticut
company with the National Insurance Company. A reinsurance was possible only on satisfactory representations to the
Connecticut company of the possession by the Washington
company of abundant assets. Such satisfactory evidence was
furnished to the directors of the Connecticut company, the
reinsurance was accomplished, and a large amount of the assets
of the Connecticut company was transferred to the Washington company. The outcome of this was that the Connecticut
company lost its assets, and, somehow or other, the same
assets transferred to the Washington company disappeared.
At least, for the purposes of this case, these facts must be considered as proved, in view of the allegations in the complaint,
and the time at whj* the court .interposed in the trial and
directed a verdict for'defendant. The contention of plaintiff
is, that such transfer of assets was bfought -about by fraudulent representations made to the Connecticut company by the
Washington company, and that the representations were accomplished through the agency of the defendant Post, and under
such circumstances that knowledge of a fraudulent intention
is imputed to him. Walker and Noyes were officers of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

connecticut company ; Walker became treasurer of the Washington company. It was necessary to satisfy the Connecticut
company that the Washington company should be possessed
of large properties. It in' fact had nothing. The possession
of'properties by the Washington company must, therefore, be
evidenced to the Connecticut company, before reinsurance
was possible. With other transactions having the same objects
in view, Walker arranged with defendant Post that he should
put fifty thousand dollars in bonds into his, Walker's, possession as treasurer of the new company. Thereupon, fifty thousand four hundred dollars of negotiable securities were placed
in the Continental National Bank by Post, and a receipt given
to Walker, by the assistant cashier of that bank, in these
words: "1Received of Henry D. Walker, the following securities as special deposit, without risk in case of robbery." Following these words was a list of the securities, and the receipt
was signed "W. J. Harris, Ass't Cashier." When this and
other like deposits had been accomplished, the Connecticut
company was advised- that the Washington company was
possessed of one hundred and fifty thousand dollars of prop-.
erty, and sought a reinsurance of the risks of the Connecticut
company. One of the directors of the Connecticut company,
Joseph A. Smith, was appointed a committee to ascertain the
.character and value of the assets of the Washington company.
In obedience to that duty, he went to New York and was
shown by Walker, the treasurer of the Washington company,
the securities thus deposited in his name in the Continental
Bank, as well as others similarly deposited, and reported to
the Connecticut company that the treasurer of the Washington company had in hig possession, as assets of the latter com.pany, more than one hundred and fifty thousand dollars of
municipal ,and other securities. Thereupon, the reinsurance
was effected, and the assets of the Connecticut company, in
the main, were transferred to the Washington company.
It is undisputed that the Washington company had no assets,
and that this show of assets was made by reason' of the trans.
•fer of appaient title by the defendant Post and others to,
Walker, the treasurer of the Washington company,' it is in

RUSSELL v. POST.
Opinion of the Court.

evidence that Post received from one thousand to fifteen hundred dollars, the exact amount not being clearly shown, for
this temporary transfer of apparent title. The transfer, as
arranged between Walker and Post, was only for fifteen days,
so that for perhaps fifteen hundred dollars Post permitted
Walker to appear as the owner of fifty thousand dollars of
municipal securities for half a month. According to Post's
own testimony, he arranged with the Continental Bank, which
was the bank with which he did business, that these securities
were not to be passed from its possession, and that all that
Walker could do was to show them as deposited in his name.
The face value of the securities was fifty thousand four hundred dollars-their real value was perhaps not over thirty
thousand dollars. No transfer of their actual possession was
provided for; no right given to.remove them from the bank;
Post considered himself all the while the owner and in possession, having given simply permission to make a show of

title, a permission to close at the end of fifteen days.

Surely

such a transaction is outside the ordinary lines of business.
It must have carried notice to Post of some scheme, and of

a design to accomplish something which ordinary business,
transactions would not justify.

Outside of these matters, in respect to which there is no
dispute, are others in' which the testimony is contradictory.
A, G. Fay, who was attorney of the Washington company, testifie&-that he called with Walker twice on Post, and in one of
those interviews Post asked him "if he was going to be connected with the company;" and be replied, "that 'he didn't
know anything about it';" that "there was not any company
as yet." The testimony of the president of the Continental
Bank and Post is conflicting as to what was said with respect
to the deposit of the bonds. The president also-testified that
after the commencement of this suit Post said to him, "the
less we remember about .that, it is an old thing, we had better
let it,go - it is one-of those old things Ilrat it is best to ba
forgotten, or something like that." Thez-e axe also other circumstances, perhaps in themselves of a trifling nature, and yet
(are such as a jury would be apt to consider and justly too, to

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

-indicate knowledge on the part of defendant. The main point
is that which we have referred to, a scheme on the part of
Walker and others to transfer from the Connecticut company
to the Washington company, the latter company being wholly
without property, the assets of the former; that to accomplish
such a transfer a show of assets in the Washington company
was essential; that such show of assets was accomplished
through the means of Post, and through a transaction which,
to say the least, was not an ordinary business transactiona transaction which secured enormous pecuniary gain to Post
for-a temporary and well-guarded placing of the apparent title
of securities in the name of Walker. We do not question the
proposition that a man may loan money or bonds and not be
responsible for the improper.use of the money or securities by
the parties to whom the loan is made; and we do not mean to
say that Post is necessarily responsible for any improper use
made by Walker of the securities, the title to which he apparently parted with; but we do hold that, where the loan is not
an ordinary business transaction; where the compensation paid
for the loan is excessive, so excessive as to be suspicious; where
the purpose on the part of the borrower is the accomplishment
of an act, not merely malum prohibitum but malum in se, an

act criminal by statute and criminal in itself; and where there
are surrounding circumstances, trivial, it may be' separately
considered, and the testihiony in respect thereto contradictory,
but the tendency of which is to charge the lender with knowledge of the wrongful purpose of the borrower, although there
may be no direct and positive evidence of guilty knowledge;
a jury may be justified in holding that the loan was made
with intent to consummate the wrong, and that the lender
must share in the responsibility for the result of the wrong
contemplated and accomplished, and which, knowingly, he
assisted in acco nplishing.
We think, theefore, there was error in withdrawing the
ape from the juny.; apd that there was testimony justly demanding its consideration, as to whether the defendant Post
was not knowingly aiding a fraudulent 'transaction. Even if
he did not know the full nature and terms of the conspiracy,

CASE N'F'G CO. v. SOXNAN.
Statement of the Case.

but only knew in a general way that a scheme existed by
which the funds of the Connecticut company were to be
withdrawn wrongfully from its control, and lent his aid, for
large consideration, to the accomplishing, of such fraudulent
transaction, we do not think he can avoid his liability by proof
that the exact nature and full details of the scheme were not
communicated to him.
The judgraent will be reversed and the ease emandedfor a
new trial.
MR.

JUSTICE BRADLEY

dissents.

CASE MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. SOXMAN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 150. Argued January 16,19, 1891.-

Decded March 2, 1891.

In this case the plaintiff having accepted notes of a limited liability company in settlement, set up that the acceptance was made through a
misunderstanding. Held, that evidence tending to show knowledge that
the plaintiff at the time of the acceptance was a limited liability company
was admissible.
When in a case in which the facts are found by the court instead of a jury,
there is any evidence tending to support the finding, this court wiU not
review it.
It appearing from the evidence of one of the plaintiff's witnesses that
during the dates of these transactions he was acting as its financial manager, his acts in that capacity cannot be repudiated.

Tim case, as stated by the Court, was as follows:
The Case Manufacturing Company, plaintiff in error, is a
corporation located at the city of Columbus, 'State of Ohio,
and engaged in the manufacture and sale of flour milling
machinery. On the 8th of December, 1883, an order was sent
to its home office, received and approved on the 11th of December, which grder, omitting immaterial matters, was, With
thaeceptance, as follows:

