CRESSEY v. MEYER.
Statement of the Case.

CRESSEY ,v. MEYER.
APPEAL FROM1 THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 145.

Argued January 12, 1S91.-Decided March 2,1891.

The right of a sovereign to enforce all obligations due to it, without regard
to statutes of limitation, or to the defence of laches, does not pass to its
creditors; and its intervention and appearance in a suit, in the nature of
a garnishee process, brought by one of its creditors as against its debtors,
does not give to such creditor its sovereign exemptions from liability to
such defences.

THE Consolidated Association of the Planters of Louisiana

was a banking corporation established by an act of the legislature of that State of date March 16, 1827, as amended by an
act dated February 19, 1828. The capital, as fixed by the
first of those acts, was two millions of dollars, which was to
be raised by means of a loan obtained by the directors of the
corporation. The act also provided, in section 2, for stock to
the extent of five thousand shares of five hundred dollars each,
or a total 6f two millions and a half of dollars. As security
for their subscriptions to this stock, which could be taken only
by planters and was transferable only to them, the subscribers
were to give real estate mortgages, and, to obtain the capital
as named, for the business of the institution, the corporation
was to issue bonds payable, respectively, in five, ten and fifteen
years. The thought and purpose were that the subscribers
should not advance any money, but that the consolidation of
their credit in one institution would enable it to secure an
abundance of capital, and that the profits of that capital, used
in the banking business, would be sufficient not only for the
expenses of the corporation, but also to discharge the liabilities
assumed by the stockholders by their.mortgages to the institution. The amendment of the act of the succeeding year
increased the authority to borrow, from two millions to two
and a half millions of dollars, and the stock, from two and a
half to three millions of dollars. It also provided that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

State should issue its bonds to the institution to the amount of
twvo millions and a half of dollars; that it should take all the
securities of the stock, with accompanying mortgages, and also
receive a bonus of one million of dollars in stock. This scheme
was carried out; the bonds of the State were issued; the stock
was subscribed; and the corporation, possessed of capital,
went into the banking business. The subscribers to the capital
stock paid nothing, but simply gave their secured notes to the
corporation. The State issued to the institution its own bonds
for two and a. half millions of dollars. In other words, the
State furnished the capital and secured itself by individual
obligations. The first series of state bonds Were paid as they
became due, but by authority of the act of March 31, 1835,
for the remainder new bonds were issued, payable in 1848.
The banking scheme was a failure. The bank continued in
business until 1842, when, on November 17, its charter was
declared forfeited for.insolrency, at a suit of the State. In
anticipation of this decree of forfeiture, the legislature of 1842
passed four acts: one, entitled an act to revive the charters
of several banks located in the city of New- Orleans, and' for
other purposes, approved February 5; another, to amend this
-act, approved March 7'; another, approved March- 11, relieving-from the rule requiring the reinscription of mortgages at the date of ten years from registry the mortgages given by
the stockholders to this bank; and fourth, of March 14,
entitled an act to provide for the liquidation of banks. ' This
last act provided forfeiture proceedings in the name of the
State, and for the appointment by the governor of a board of
managers to wind up its affairs. On April 5, 1843, another act
was passed, declaring that the assets of this bank should remain
in the possession and -under the exclusive management of the
State until the final payment of all bonds issued to it by the
State. On April 6, 1841, an act was passed authorizing
the managers of the bank to extend by endorsements the bonds
in favor of the bank issued by the State to six, nine, twelve,
fifteen and eighteen years, with a privilege to each stockholder
to discharge his obligation to the bank and cancel his subscription by surrendering bonds of the State proportionate to

CRESSEY v. MEYER..
Opinion of the Court.

the amounts due from him by his subscription. It was further
provided that the managers should require such annual or
periodical payment by the stockholders as would finally pay
the bonds due the State; and that the amount might be distributed through the succeeding seventeen years. This legislation, so far as any action on the part of the bank was
necessary to give it force, was accepted. On examination, it
was found that the deficiency of assets would be about $500,000; and that a contribution of one.hundred and two dollars
per share, payable in seventeen equal annual instalments,
would be sufficient to pay off these bonds, and such an assessment was duly ordered.
This suit was commenced by the filing of a bill in the Circuit Court of the United States on December 12, 1883, by
William Cressey, an alien, against the bank and its board of
managers and directors; and' afterwards, by an amended bill
filed January 24, 1884, against a large number of stockholders,
setting forth the plaintiff's ownership of certain bonds issued
by the. State under the act of 1847, portions of which had
been paid, and seeking to charge these stockholders for the
unpaid portion of the amounts due from them under the settlement of 1847, above referred to. Subsequently, the State
of Louisiana intervened, and was admitted as a partypro interesse suo. On proofs and hearing, the defences of the stockholders were sustained, and the bill as to them dismissed.
Xr. George A. E-ing and Xr. Charles W. Hornor for the
State of Louisiana. Mr. Walter E. Rogers, Attorney General
of that State, was with them on the brief. Xr. Josevp P.
Hornor and Mr. Guy . Hornor were on the brief as for
Cressey.
M!r. J. D. Rouse, (with whom was .Mir. William Grant on
the brief,) "forappellees.
Mn. JusTicn BREwFR delivered the opinion of the court.

One proposition alone requires notice. This was an action
by a creditor of the State not against, his debtor, but against

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

its debtors, to secure an appropriation of their debts to it to
the satisfaction of its obligations to him. It is a proceeding
of a garnishee nature. The appearance of the State, voluntarily, its application to be made a party pro interesse suo,
may avoid all questions as to the right of the plaintiff to
maintain this suit. Conceding that such a suit is proper, it
still remains in the nature of a personal action by one individual against another. As against such a suit, laches and limitations are in a court of equity sufficient defences. The settlement,
which was practically between the State and its debtors, was
made in 1847. Thirty-six years thereafter this bill is filed.
If the time'for full payment given by the settlement of 1847
is subtracted, this suit was commenced nineteen years after
the time fixed by that settlement for the last payment had
passed. Limitation and laches forbid that this suit should be
sustained. It may be that, as against the sovereign, no statutes of limitation run; and it may be that, in the courts of
Louisiana, the State may enforce all obligations due to it no
matter what period of .time may have intervened since they
were assumed; but that right is personal to the sovereign,; it
does not pass to any of its creditors; and its intervention and
appearance in a suit brought by a creditor, as against its debtors, does not give to such creditor its sovereign exemption
from liability to the statute of limitation and the defence of
laches. Whatever, therefore, might be true if the State of
Louisiana were suing in its own courts, this suit must be
treated in the federal courts as one by an individual against
individuals; and, brought nineteen years after by the terms of
settlement between the State and its creditors the last payment
was due from them to it, must be adjudged a stale claim. The
decisions of the Supreme Court of Louisiana are in accord
with this conclusion. Association v. lord, 35 La. Ann. 425.
That case was the counterpart of this, and the final conclusion
of that court was against the right to maintain the action and
on the ground of the staleness of the claim. The fact that
much litigation had intervened during these years, that bank-"
ruptcy proceedings were pending, avails nothing to this plain-'
tiff, who was no party thereto.
17w decree is a£fflimed.

