TROY LAUNDRY MACHINERY CO. v. DOLPH.

617

Statement of the Case.

TROY LAUNDRY MACHINERY COMPANY v.
DOLPH.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF

THE

UNITED STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 149. Argued January 13, 14, 1891. -Decided

March 2, 1891.

Dolph contracted to sell to the plaintiff in error standard Dolph washers at
$110 a machine, and the company contracted to take at least 50 machines
a year at that price, the contract to last for five years. There was a further clause by which Dolph was to have the option of manufacturing for
the company any other machines sold by him at such price as might be
bid for them in open competition. The company at the expiration of a
year threw up the contract and repudiated its obligations, and Dolph
sued to enforce them. Held, that the principal object of the contract
was the sale and purchase of the Dolph machines; that the sale and purchase of the other machines were subordinate to it; and that the court
should have instructed the jury that, as to the latter, there could be none
other than a recovery of nominal damages.

IN 1882 the parties hereto entered into- the following contract:
"This agreement made this third day of January, 1882, between A. M. Dolph, of Cincinnati, 0., of the first part, and
the Troy Laundry Machinery Company, Limited, of Troy,
-N.Y., party of the second part, witnesseth:
"1st. That the said A. M. Dolph, party of the first part, in
consideration of the covenants hereinafter named, made, and to
be kept, shall furnish, crated or packed for shipment, delivered
at depot in Cincinnati, 0., to the order of said Troy Laundry
Machine Company, Limited, and within a reasonable time after
such order is received, certain washing machines of standard
size of the style heretofore manufactured by the said A. M.
Dolph as the hydrtulic washer, and lci vn and designated as
the Stan~dard Dolph washer,.at the price of one hundred and
ten dollars ($110) each, which shall be designated as the manufacturer's price for said Standard Dolph washer.
It2d. That the said Troy Laundry Machine -, Limited,
party of the second part, in consideration of the covenants
herein made and to be kept, agree to pay to the said A. M.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

Dolpi the sum of one hundred and ten dollars ($110.00) each
for said Standard Dolph washer delivered as before mentioned,
and to bind themselves herein and agree to take at least fifty
(50) of said Standard Dolph washers each year.
"3d. That fme said-A. M. Dolph shall have the refusal or
option of m~aufacturing any and all washing machines sold
by the said A. M. Dolph and said Troy Laundry Machinery
Company, Limited, or for them through their agents, at the
price of one hundred and ten dollars ($110.00) each for the
said Standard Dolph washer and at such price for other washing machines as may be bid for them in open competition for
equal quality of-goods by ahy responsible manufacturers other
than said Dolph, and these prices shall constitute and be designated as the manufacturer's prices for these machines.
"4th. That the selling price of the said Standard Dolph
washer is hereby fixed at two hundred d6llars ($200.00) each,
and that the selling price of washing machines that may be
sold by either p.rty hereunto other than the Standard Dolph
washer shall be fixed at a price the same in proportion to the
designated manufacturer's -price thereof as the selling price of
the Standard Dolph washer is to its manufacturer's price, provided that the selling price of any of the aforesaid washing
machines may be changed by the mutual consent of the parties
hereto.
"5th. That the said A. Al. Dolph and the said Troy Laundry Machinery Company, Limited, do hereby agree together
to equally divide between them, the said parties, the entire
profits arising from the combined sales made by both parties
or for them through their agents of any and all washing machines, and this profit shall be in all cases the entire margin
between the designated manufacturer's price and the fixed selling price at the time the sale is made, provided that a discount
or commission of twenty per cent of the selling price may be
allowed by either party to their regular published agents other
than a paid employs on sales actually made by said agent,
which discount may be deducted from the profits before a
division of the same is made.
"6th. Each party to this aareement shall furnish to the

TROY LAUNDRY MACHINERY CO. v. DOLPH.

619

Statement of the Case.

other party annually a sworn statement of the number of each
kind of washing machines sold by them; also the profits made
above manufacturer's price on sales of washing machines other
than the Standard Dolph washer, and the number of each kind
of washing machine sold by their agents.
"7th. That the party of the second part agrees to pay to
the party of the first part for all the goods ordered and delivered according to articles one and two to this agreement,
within four months after the delivery of said goods.
"8th. That at the close of each year a division of profits
shall be made accarding to articles five and six of this agreement, and any balance found to be due to either party shall
be paid to that party within the first -two months of the year
following.
"9th. That on all washing machines furnished to the said
Troy Laundry :Machinery Company, Limited, shall be fixed a
plate inscribed with the name and place of. business of the said
company.
"10th; This agreement shall be in force for the term of five
years next ensuing.
"In witness whereof the .parties hereunto have set their
hand and seal the day andyear first herein written.

"A., M. DoLPH.

[SEAL.]

"DELAvAN PEoK, Pres't,

"CHARLEs

Axous, Sec'y.

"[Corporate Seal of the Company.]"

In February, 1884, Dolph, the defendant in error, commenced his action in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern District of Nqew York, alleging breach -of
this contract by the defendant, now-the plaintiff in error, and
claiming damages in the sum of thirty thousand dollars. Trial
being had, resulted in a verdict, Mareh 266 ?4886, in favor of
plaintiff, for sixteen thousand dollars. That verdict having
been set aside, (28 Fed. Rep.j5.5,) a new trial,was had, which
resulted in a verdict, March 26; -1887, in favor of -plaintiff, for
the sum of seven thousand two hundred and eight dollars.
Judgment was entered on that verdict, of which the defendant

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

complains in this court, by proper proceedings in error, and
asks a reversal.

XMr'. EseW Cowen for plaintiff in error.
Mr. H. P. LlByd for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTIQE BREWER

delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant kept this contract for a year' and then repudiated its obligations. The excuse made in its correspondence
and alleged in its answer was, that the parol agreement between th& parties, an agreement authorized by the directors
of the defendant company, was a three years' contract; that
the contract prepared by plaintiff was for five years; and that
through inadvertence and mistake the contract thus prepared
was signed by the officers of the defendant company. A
change in the written. agreement from five years to three was
demanded and refused. As no.testimony was offered to support this contention, it must, for the. purposes of this suit, be
taken as a mere pretence. The defendant, having made a five
years' contract, at the end of one year repudiated it. The
contract was not against public policy; simply a contract
between a manufacturer and a dealer, with reference to the
manufacture and sale of washing machines. Many errors are
alleged in the trial of the case. We notice but one, for we are
constrained to hold that the court erred in its ruling in that
respect.
lit will be observed that the contract had two phases. One
for the manufacture and sale of the Dolph washer; the other,
in paragraph three, in reference to the manufacture and sale
of other washing machines. In reference to that, the contract
provided that Dolph should- have the option to manufacture
for defendant any other machines, at such price "as may be
bid for them in open competition, for equal quality of goods,
by any responsible manufacturers -other than said Dolph." In
referen'ce to this branch of the case the learned judge, charging
the jury, said: "Regarding the machines other than the Dolph
machines, it is wellnigh impossible to lay down any stisfactory

TROY LAUNDRY MACHINERY CO. v. DOLPH.

621

Opinion of the Court.
rule of damages. In attempting to do so difficulties and perplexities are encountered at every turn. At first I was inclined
to withdraw this branch of the subject from your consideration
entirely, for the reason that the evidence was so uncertain
that no damage could properly and certainly be based upon
the breach of the contract in this regard; but subsequent
reflection has induced me to submit the facts for- your consideration, with such instructions as will induce you, if you award
anything, to give only such actual damages as you believe the
plaintiff has suffered." And furth-r on, quoting also from the
opinion given on the motion for a new trial: "1Nooption was
given him the first year, and, as there is no way of ascertaining
whether, if the option had been given thereafter, it would have
been accepted, it is by no means easy to state what his rights
in this respect are. The decision of the court before referred
to says upon this branch of the case: 'As to the damages
recoverable for the breach of that provision of -the contract
by which the plaintiff was to have the privilege of supplying
the defendant with other washing machines at the lowest
price bid by other manufacturers for supplying defendant with
the same, it is not clear that the plaintiff could establish any
loss of profits, unless it could be shown that there is some
usual or average percentage of profit customarily realized by
manufacturers of analogous articles, or.some established manufacturer's price. The plaintiff might have been unwilling to
act upon the option at prices which other manufacturers
would have offered, and the extent of his prospective loss, if
any, is largely a matter of speculation.- The defendant may
have been so situated that it could better afford to employ its
own men and facilities, even although by doing so its maohines
would cost it more than to buy them of -others, and in this
view the difference between the actual cost of the machines
to the defendant and the sum it would have cost the plaintiff
to make and'furnish them might -not be the correct rule of
damages."' Obviously, he appreciated' the difficulty, but felt
that the misconduct of defendant compelled an open door to
some substantial recovery, even in respect to this branch of
the contract.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

No option was given to plaintiff, and none claimed by-him;
nor was there anything that could be fairly called open competition. True, the defendant made a contract with a neighbor to manufacture these machines., After awhile it abandoned
that contract, and manufactured them itself. The plaintiff
never exercised: or sought the option conferred by this clause
of the contract. The circumstances under which the contract
was made with the neighboring manufacturer are not disclosed. It does not appear that his offer was made in thought
of any competition. .If the idea of open competition, as named
in the contract, had been presented, who can say that he might
not have b.en willing to have contracted for the machines at
a less figure, and how can it be said, with this uncertainty,
that the plaintiff would have exercised his option ? The opinion of the Circuit Judge in sustaining the motion for a new
trial, evidently was, that in the uncertainty surrounding the
facts, recourse might be had to some usual or average percentage of profits customarily realized by manufacturers of analogous articles. 13 is idea seemed to be, that when contract
provisions fail, supposed equivalents may be resorted to. Possibly in some cases such ruling as that may be adopted; but
we think it inapplicable here. Specific provisions as to the
Dolph machines, which was obviously the real subject matter
of the contract, were inserted, and the defendant agreed to
take at least fifty of them each year. Other machines were
subordinate, and the stipulations in respect to them were incidental rather than principal, and apparently more for supporting and giving force to the principal matter of the contract,
the Dolph machines; hence, whatever of uncertainty attends
those provisions. On breach of such a contract, the principal
matter in respect to which provision was made is the one to
be mainly regarded. If snbordinate provisions are clear and
definite, and damages for disregard thereof determinable by
plain and obvious rules, of course such damages may be recovered; but if because they are subordinate the provisions in
respect thereto are indefinite, then the court may not, with
the idea of preventing injustice, attempt to substitute equivalents therefor. The main purpose of the contract must be

GORMLEY v. BUNYAN.
Syllabus.

regarded, and its specific provisions in connection therewith
enforced, and proper damages given for the breach thereof.
A lack of certainty as to terms f contract obligations of
either party, or measure of damages for breach, is simply the
misfortune of him who seeks to recover in case of a breach

thereof. The case practically is one of those in Which, however reprehensible the conduct of the defendant may be in
repudiating its contract obligations, the parties, having reference to one portion of the subject. matter of the contract,
made certain stipulations which determine the measure of
damages in the case of breach; and on the breach the injured
party has failed to bring himself within those stipulations.
Such failure is his loss. The court should have charged the
jury, that in reference to the machines other than the Dolph
machines, there could be none other than a recovery of nominal damages. Jaeczon v. Allen, 10,
M.ass. 64, 80.
For this error the judgment is
]?evemsed, and the case remanded, with intructionw to grant
a new trial.

GORMLEY v. BUNYAN.
ERROR TO THE cIcurr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 574. Submitted January 9,1891. -Decided

March 2,1891.

The granting or refusal of leave to file an additional plea, or to amend one
already filed, is discretionary witlithe court below, and not reviewable
by this .court, except in a case of gross abuse of discretion.
C lent money to plaintiffs in error, taking their notes payable to their own
order indorsed in blank. He held the notes at the time of his death, and
they came into possession of his executors who filled in the blank
indorsement with a direction to pay to the order of B and , executors
of C, and sued in assumpsit to recover on them. The declaration contained a special count on the notes describing then-as having been
indorsed and delivered to C, and the usual common counts in which the
transactions were all alleged to have taken placejwith C. Held, that, as
to the special count the variance could be curedby amendment, and as to

