COOK COUNTY v. CALUMET & CHICAGO CANAL CO. 635
Syllabus.

regard to the sale of the property under the trust deed. If
the defendants were wronged by that sale their remedy is
against Loeb; and any loss they may have suffered cannot
be pleaded to defeat the claim of the plaintiffs on the note.
There was no error in not allowing the statutes of limitation
of New York and, Illinois to be admitted in evidence, after
the court had overruled the motion of the defendants to be
allowed to plead them as a defence. The only way in which
such statutes are available as a defence is when they are, at
the proper time, specially pleaded. 1 Chitty on Pleading, 514,
515; Stephen on Pleading, 76, note; Wilson v. Eing, 83 Illinois, 232.
With respect to the refusal of the court to allow certain
other public statutes to be introduced in evidence, it need only
be said that the courts of the United States take judicial
notice of all the public statutes of the several States.
Neither was there any error in excluding evidence offered
to show that the notes sued on had never been inventoried as
a part of the estate of Edward Clark, deceased. It was shown
that the notes were his property at the time of his death, and
by operation of law, in pursuance of his will, they passed to
his executofs, who possessed the right to sue for the amount
due on them.
We see no error in the proceedings of the court below, and
its judgment is
Affirmed.

COOK COUNTY v. CALUMET & CHICAGO CANAL
& DOCK COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 1406. Submitted January 9,1891.-Decided March 2,1891.

To give this court jurisdiction of a writ of error to a state court it must
appear affirmatively, not only that a federal question was presented for
decision by the highest court of the State having jurisdiction, but that
its decision was necessary to the determination of the cause, and that it
was actually decided, or that the judgment as rendered could not have
been given without deciding it.
De Saussure v. Gaillard,127 U. S. 216; Johnson v. Risk, 137 U. S. 300, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.
Tested by this rule the writ of error cannot be sustained, as the judgment
of the state court proceeded wholly upon the construction of the terms
and conditions of the grant of the State to the county by the act of 1852,
and as amended by the act of 1854, and the validity-of those enactments
was not drawn in question.
The validity of a statute is not drawn in question every time rights claimed
under such statute are controverted, nor is the validity of an authority
every time an act done by such authority is disputed; and here the validity of the authority was not primarily denied, and the denial made the
subject of direct inquiry.
A decision by the highest court of a State that the land commissioner had
no authority to vacate an entry,'and that any order that he might have
made did not affect the rights of the party making the entry, is not a
decision against a title specially set up or claimed under an'authority
exercised under the United States, nor against the validity of such an
authority.
The acts of the general assembly of the State of Illinois of June 22, 1852,
and of March 4, 1854, with reference to swamp lands, were in entire
harmony with the acts of Congress, and the intention of the legislatioD
was, as the Supreme Court of Illinois held, to protect the title of purchasers from the United States, after the passage of the act of September 28, 1850, which took effect as a grant in prcsenti, while it was
sought by the Illinois acts to secure to the counties the right to receive
the money paid for the lands, as well as to the purchasers the title of
the State.

THIS was an action of ejectment brought by the county of
Cook, in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, on the
31st of January, 1883, against the Calumet and Chicago Canal
and Dock Company, to recover the S.W. .- of section 7, township 37 N., R. 15 E., of the third principal meridian, north of
the Indian boundary line, containing 46948 acres, except a
strip of land held for a railroad right of way. Judgment
passed for the defendant, and was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the State on error. The opinion, .by Mr. Justice
Craig, will be found reported in 131 Illinois, 505.
By th&act of Congress of September 28, 1850, entitled "An
act to enable the State of Arkansas and other States to reclaim
the 'Swamp Lands' within their limits," Congress granted to
the State of Illinois, as one of the other States, all the swamp
and overflowed lands, lying within its borders which then
remained unsold, and provided for their segregation and the
issue of 1)atents therefor. 9 Stat. 519, c. 84.

COOK COUNTY v. CALU.MET & CHICAGO CANAL CO.

637

Statement of the Case.
On the 22d of June, 1852, an act of the general assembly cf
the State of Illinois was approved, entitled "An act to dispose
of the swamp and overflowed lands, and to pay the expenses
of selecting and surveying the same," which provided that all
the swamp and overflowed lands granted to the State of
Illinois by the act of Congress were thereby granted to the
counties -respectively in which the same might lie or be situated, "for the purpose of constructing the necessary levees
and drains to reclaim the same," etc., and the second section
of which contained the following:
"Whenever it shall appear that any of the lands granted to
the State by the aforesaid act of Congress shall have been sold
by the United States since the passage of this act, it shall be
lawful for the said counties to convey such lands to the purchasers thereof. The said deed of conveyance shall be made
by the judges of the county court, as such, and countersigned
by the clerk of said court, with the official seal thereof affixed;
and on delivering said deed to the purchaser, the county judge
shall take from him an assignment of all his rights in the
premises, and as such assignees they shall be authorized to
receive from the United States the purchase-money of said
land; and whenever any lands embraced by the said act have
been located by bounty land warrants since the passage thereof,
it shall be lawful for such county in which the same are situated, to convey the same in manner aforesaid, to the person
or persons who located said warrant, and to take an assignment of the same to them as county judges, who shall thereupon be considered as assignees of the State, and as such may
locate said warrant on any of the public lands belonging to
the United States within the limits of such county, or elsewhere." Sess. Laws Ill. 1852, p. 178.
By the third section the state auditor was directed to fur-.
nish each county with an abstract of the swamp lands which
had been purchased from the United States, or which had
been located by land warrants, or to which the right of preemption had attached since the passage of the swamp land
act.
March 4, 1854, this act was amended by an act providing:

OCTOBER TERM. 1890.
Statement of the Case.

"That in all cases where any of the lands granted to the
counties by the act to which this act is amendatory, have been
sold by the United States since the passage of the act of Congress, entitled: 'An act to enable the State of Arkansas and
other States to reclaim the swamp lands within their limits,'
approved September 28, 1850, the county courts of the several
counties in this State, shall by an ordgr to be entered of record
at any regular or special term, sitting for the transaction of
county business, make all necessary orders for securing to the
purchasers who have parchased swamp and overflowed lands
situated in their respective counties, since the passage of the
act of Congress as aforesaid, in pursuance and in the manner
prescribed by the act of the general assembly of this State, to
which this is an amendment: P rovided, That the county
courts may in their discretion, require the purchasers aforesaid
to pay to the drainage commissioner, for the use of said county,
the cash, at the rate they purchased the lands from the United
States, within the time to be specified by said court, by an
order entered of record as aforesaid, and on a failure on the
part of all such purchasers to comply with the terms of said
court, as specified by this act, the said swamp and overflowed
lands purchased by the United States as aforesaid, may be sold
by the county courts or drainage commissioners, as other swamp
and overflowed lands are sold." Sess. Laws Ill. 1854, p. 19.
And at the same session it was enacted: "That the care
and superintendence of so much of the swamp and overflowed
lands granted to the State of Illinois by the act of Congress
entitled: I An act to enable the State of Arkansas and other
States to reclaim the swamp lands within their limits,' approved
September twenty-eight, one thousand eight hundred and fifty,
as lies in the county of Cook, is hereby vested in the board of
supervisors of said county, and the said board of supervisors
are hereby vested with all the powers in relation thereto heretofore given to the county court, subject in all respects to the
provisions of the act entitled: ' An act to dispose of the swamp
and overflowed lands, and to pay the expenses of selecting and
surveying the same,' approved June 22d, 1852." Sess. Laws

Ill. 1854, p. 184.

COOK COUNTY v. CALUIVIET & CHICAGO CANAL CO. 639
Statement of the Case.

On March 2, 1855, Congress passed an act, entitled "An act
for the relief of purchasers and locators of swamp and overflowed lands," which was as follows:
"That the President of the United States cause patents to
be issued, as soon as practicable, to the purchaser or purchasers,
locator or locators, who have made entries of the public lands,
claimed as swamp lands, either with cash, or with land warrants, or with scrip, prior to the issue of patents to the State
or States, as provided for by the second section of the act
approved September twenty-eight, eighteen hundred and fifty,
entitled 'An act to enable the State of Arkansas and other
States to reclaim the swamp lands within their limits,' any
decision of the Secretary of the Interior, or other officer of
the government of the United States, to the contrary notwithstanding: PTovided, That in all cases where any State,
through its constituted authorities, may have sold or disposed
of any tract or tracts of said land to any. individual or individuals prior to the entry, sale or location of the same, under
the preemption or other laws of the United States, no patent
shall be issued by the President for such tract or tracts of
land, until such State, through its constituted authorities, shall
release its claim thereto, in such form as shall be prescribed by
the Secretary of the Interior: And providedfirther,That if
such State shall not, within ninety days from the.passage of
this act, through its constituted authorities, return to the general land office of the United States, a list of all the lands sold
as aforesaid, together with the dates of such sales, and the
names of the purchasers, the patents shall be issued immediately thereafter, as directed in the foregoing section.
"SEc. 2. And be it further enacted, That upon due pro/f,
by the authorized agent of the State or States, before the
commissioner of the general land office, that any of the lands
purchased were swamp lands, within the true intent and meaning of the act aforesaid, the purchase-money shall be paid over
to the said State or States; and where the lands have been
located by warrant or scrip, the said State or States shall be
authorized to locate a quantity of like amount, upon any of
the public lands subject to entry, at one dollar and a quarter

OCTOBER TEIDM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

per acre, or less, and patents shall issue therefor, upon the
terms and conditions enumerated in the act aforesaid: Provided, however, That the said decisions of the commissioner of
the general land office shall be approved by the Secretary of
the Interior." 10 Stat. 634, c. 147.
On the third of March, 1857, an act of Congress was
approved, reading thus:
"That the selection of swamp and overflowed lands granted
to the several States by the act of Congress, approved September twenty-eight, eighteen hundred and fifty, entitled 'An
act to enable the State of Arkansas and other States to reclaim
the swamp lands within their limits,' and the act of the second
of March, eighteen hundred and forty-nine, entitled 'An act to
aid the State of Louisiana in draining the swamp lands therein,'
heretofore made and reported to the commissioner of the general land office, so far as the same shall remain vacant and
unappropriated, and not.interfered with by an actual settlement under any existing law of the United States, be and the
same are hereby confirmed, and shall be approved and patented
to the said several States, in conformity with the provisions of
the act aforesaid, as soon as may be practicable after the passage of this law: Provided,however, That nothing in this act
contained shall interfere with the provisions of the act of Congress entitled 'An act for the relief of purchasers and locators
of swamp and overflowed lands,' approved March the second,
eighteen hundred and fifty-five, which shall be and is hereby
continued in force, and extended to all entries and locations
of lands claimed as swamp lands made since its passage."
11 Stat. 251, c. 117.
The cause- coming on for trial, a jury was waived and the
cause submitted to the court for its findings and judgment.
The plaintiff introduced in evidence a certified copy of the
certificate of the surveyor general of October 29, 1853, that
this (with other) land was swamp or overflowed land within
the meaning of the act of Congress of September 28, 1850;
and also a certificate of the State auditor showing the segregation by. the State of the land prior to the passage and
approval of the confirmatory act of Congress of March 3,

COOK COUNTY v. CALUMET & CHICAGO CANAL CO.

641

Statement of the Case.

1857; and the approval of the list of selections by the Secretary of the Interior, May 8, 1866, "subject to any valid legal
rights that may exist to any of the tracts therein described;"
and thereupon rested its case.
On the part of the defendant there was offered a certified
copy of a certificate of the register and receiver of the United
States land office at Chicago, Illinois, dated October 20, 1853,
to William B. Egan, but not the indorsements made thereon
or the entries upon the face thereof; to which evidence the
plaintiff objected on the ground that if said paper was put in
evidence the whole paper must go in, and also on the ground
that such title was subsequent to the swamp land grant under
which the plaintiff claimed, and also on the ground that said
certificate showed upon its face that it was cancelled; but the
court, holding that all of said paper, including the indorsements or entries upon itg face, should be in evidence, subject
to all objections, allowed the same to be read; to which
rulings the plaintiff then and there excepted, and the defendant, excepting to the ruling upon the indorsements and writing on said certificate, read said copy of said certificate in
evidence in words and figures as follows:
"Military bounty land act of March 22, 1852.
"Land Warrant oh.2495.
"Register and Receiver's No. 34.
"LAND. OFFICE, Oct. 20, 1853.
"We hereby certify that the attached military bounty land
warrant No. 2495 was on this day received at this office from
William B. Egan, of Cook County, State of Illinois.
" JxgEs LONG, RegiSter.
"ELI B. WILLIAXS, Receilver.

"I, William B. Egan, of Cook' County, State of Illinois,
hereby apply to locate, and do locate the southwest fractional
,N. I. B. L., of section No. (7) seven, in township No. (37)
thirty-seven, N. of range No. 15 E., in the district of lands
subject to sale at the land office at Chicago, containing 46-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

acres, in satisfaction of the attached warrant, numbered 2495,
issued under the act of 22d of March, 1852.
"[Written across the face:] Cancelled. See letter to R. R.
at Springfield, Aug. 10, 1855. Binckly.
"[Written across the face in red ink:] Reinstated Feb. 15,
1883. W't 101,043, act of 1850, 4Wa, substituted.
"Witness my hand this 20th day of October, A.D. 1853.
"1WiLniAm B. EGAN.
LoNG,
Register.
"Attest: JA.ms
"ELI B. WILLI.

S,

Receiver.

"I request the patent to be seht to
"LAND OFFICE, CHICAGO, Oct. 20, 1853.
"We hereby certify that the above location is correct, being
in accordance with law and instructions.
" JAMEs LONG, Register.
" ELI B. WILLIAMI5, Receiver.
"Endorsements: 40 acres. 2495. 40. Chicago, Ill. W't
101,043, act 18--, 40 acres, substituted for the above number
Feb'y 15, 1883. Cancelled. See letter to reg'r, Springfield,
Ill. Aug. 10, 1855. Binckly. Cancellation noted on tract
book. 17 Nov'r, 1855. R. W. B. *B. K. Reinstatement
noted Feb'y 15, 1883. See cash entry No. 29,521, Springfield.
Lawrence.

Approved.

,

clerk.

Patented

Recorded
"This location is reinstated and warrant No. 101,043 for 40
acres, act of Sept. 28, 1850, substituted for w't No. 2495 for
40 acres, act of 1852, in div. K., February 15, 1883.
" E. KILPATRICK.

"Div. 'K.'
"See letter in div. 'K' to Cohrs, Dearborn & Shope,
Chicago, Ills., Feb. 15, 1883.
"(ll(emorandum.)
"This entry is in conformity with Com. letter Sep. 13, 1883.
The cash part was paid February 28, 1853.
" JAMEs LONG,

Register.

COOK COUNTY v. CALUMET & CHICAGO CANAL CO.

643

Statement of the Case.

"W't susp., however, for erasure; party desires its location
cancelled. See reg. (Chicago) letter of May 28, 1855, cancelled
therefor, and party allowed to relocate with another wt' No.
101,043.
"Au&. 10, 1855."
It was admitted by the plaintiff that William B. Egan, in
April, 1854, executed, acknowledged and delivered to H. S.
Monroe a proper deed of conveyance of the land described
in the certificate, conveying the same to said Monroe,
which deed was duly recorded in January, 1855. And it
was further admitted, that May 11, 1871, Monroe executed,
acknowledged and delivered to Bowen a deed in due form
conveying the land in suit in consideration of $1000 to. said
Bowen, which deed was recorded in the recorder's office of
Cook County in May, 1871. The defendant offered in evidence a deed, properly executed and acknowledged by Bowen,
dated January 21, 1872, and recorded, June 21, 1872, conveying the land in controversy to the defendant. These deeds
were objected to by the plaintiff as immaterial and irrelevant.
It was also admitted that this land, together with other lands,
was subdivided and platted into blocks and lots by the defendant on June 29, 1875, in accordance with the provisions of the
statute of the State of Illinois in that behalf, and duly recorded in the recorder's office of Cook County; and that
streets and alleys were, upon said plat, laid out across the
land in suit, and the lines of said streets and of the blocks
and lots were staked out on the land by defendant. It was
shown by the defendant that the land had been taxed each
year from 1870 to 1886 (except 1877) for county and State
and other purposes, and that these taxes, amounting to nearly
$8000, were from time to time paid by it; but this evidence
was objected to by plaintiff, because it did not bring defendant within any section of the limitation laws concerning the
payment of taxes; and plaintiff also objected to the showing
of any taxes paid since the commencement of this suit. It
was agreed that the property as described in the declaration,
or as subdivided, was not assessed for taxes for the year 1877.

OCTOBER TERMf, .1890.
Statement of the Case.

It appeared that -on May 2-4, 1870, John W. Bunn entered
this land and received a certificate of entry from the register
and receiver at the Springfield Land Office, which he assigned
to Bowen, and that a patent issued on the 15th of November
to Bowen, as Bunn's assignee.
It also appeared that the land was situated within six miles
of the Illinois Central Railroad location, and, being part of an
odd-numbered section, its minimum price was fixed at $2.50
per acre, under the act of Congress of September 20, 1850,
(9 Stat. 466;) and that a reservation was made, by order of the
President, of the land fifteen miles in width on each side of the
location of that railroad, and specific directions were given on
the 19th and 20th of September, 1850, by the commissioner
of the general land office to the register and receiver to withhold certain lands, including* that in question, from sale or
entry of any kind until such lands should be again made subjeut to private entry by proclamation of the President; and
that on the third of April, 1852, by the President's proclamation, the lands were restored to market, and thereafter those
within the six-mile limit, not inuring to the State for railroad
purposes, were offered by the government at public sale.
The Circuit Court was asked by the parties respectively to
rule upon certain propositions of law, some of which were
approved and some rejected, exceptions being taken accordingly. Its affirmative rulings were as follows:
"The lists of lands, including the tract of land in question,
transmitted to the governor of Illinois under the act of Congress of September 28, 1850, by the Secretary of the Interior,
a copy of which, duly certified by the'state auditor, has been
introduced in evidence, is sufficient evidence in this action to
show jrimafacie title to the tract in question in the plaintiff
under law.
"If the evidence shows that the land in question was listed
as swamp land, and so certified by the Secretary of the Interior to the governor of the State of Illinois, then the effect of
such listing and certification was to vest the title thereto in
the State of Illinois on the 28th of September, 1850, irrespective of the question whether said tract was situate within six

COOK COUNTY v. CALUMET & CHICAGO CANAL CO. 645
Statement of the Case.

miles of the line of the Illinois Central Railroad as located or
not.
"As a matter of law, tne tact tuat the premises in question
were part of an odd-numbered section and lying within six
miles of the line of the Illinois Central Railroad as finally
located, would not prevent the title thereto passing to the
State of Illinois under the swamp land act of Congress of
September 28th, 1850, if it were in fact swamp and overflowed
land within the meaning of that act at that date.
"If the land in question had in fact been selected as swamp
and overflowed land under the swamp land act., approved September 28th, 1850, by the surveyor general of the United States
for the States of Missouri and Illinois, and said tract was
reported as such swamp land by said surveyor to the commissioner of the general land office on October 29th, 1853, and if
the evidence shows that the same remained vacant and unappropriated and not interfered with by an actual settlement
under any existing law of the United States on the 3d day of
March, 1857, then the title to said tract of land was confirmed
in the State of Illinois by the act of Congress approved March
3d, 1857, entitled ' An act to confirm to the several States the
swamp and overflowed lands selected under the act of September 28th, 1850, and the act of the 2d of March, 1849.!
"If the land in question was in fact swamp land on the 28th
day of September, 1850, the day of the passage of the swamp
land grant, then the title passed to the State by virtue of said
act irrespective of iny acts of the officers of the Department
of the Interior of the United States and irrespective of any
subsequent confirmatory acts of Congress. "Under the evidence in this cause the title to the land in
controversy, it being swamp land, passed 'ythe grant of September 28th, 1850, known as the swamp land act, to the State
of Illinois and the title to the said land vested in the plaintiff,
the county of Cook, by virtue of the act of the general assembly of Illinois entitled ' An act to dispose of the swamp and
overflowed lands and to pay the expenses of selecting and surveying the same,' approved June 22d, 1852, without the execution of any deed therefor.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

"The mere collection and payment of taxes under the township organization laws of Illinois do not work an estoppel to
an action of ejee.tment for lands so taxed.
"That the entry of said land by William B. Egan on October 20, 1853, and the receipt and retention by the United
States' of the money and warrant delivered by'said Egan in
\payment therefor was a sale by the United States of said land
to said Egan, and an appropriation of said land by the United
States within the intent and meaning of the confirmatory acts
of Congress.
"That said William B. Egan was the owner in said lands
in fee, and that the defendant in this case, as assignee of said
Egan by regular conveyances, made prior to the commencement of this suit, was at the time of the commencement of
this suit the owner of said land in fee and entitled to the possession thereof.
"That under the act of the legislature of Illinois of June 22,
1852, in relation to swamp lands, and under the act amendatory
thereof, of the legislature of said State, of March 4, 1854, the
county of Cook could not become the owner of said land as
against said Egan or his grantees until said county of Cook
should comply with the requirements of said acts as to the
purchasers of swamp land from the United States subsequent
to the 'enactment of the swamp land act of September 28,
1850, and that the burden was upon said county of Cook,
plaintiff herein, to prove affirmatively such compliance.
"That under the law upon the facts shown upon the trial,
the plaintiff cannot-recover herein."
Among other rulings requested by plaintiff and refused, was
this: "The cancellation of the Egan entry, August 10, 1855,
by the Department of the Interior of the United States, in the
absence of any facts or evidence showing the circumstances
which led to this cancellation, must be presumed to have been
based upon sufficient facts to authorize it."
The court thereupon found for the defendant and the plain-'
tiff moved for a new trial, which motion being overruled,
judgment for defendant was entered, and the cause taken by
writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State, and the judgment affirmed.

COOK COUNTY v. CALUMET & CHICAGO CANAL CO.

647

Statement of the'Case.

The Supreme Court held (131 Ill. 505) that, conceding the
evidence introduced by the plaintiff was sufficient to establish
prima facie a titl6 upon which a recovery might be had if no
evidence had been introduced by the defendant, yet that as
Egan was a purchaser within the meaning and protection
attached to this grant, no beneficial title passed to the county.
The court said: "It will be observed that the land was entered
by Egan after the passage of the act of Congress granting
swamp lands to the State. 'Butthe entry was made nine days
before the land was selected as swamp land; and in this connection it may be remarked, that the fact is well known to all
who have given the subject any consideration, that after the
passage of the swamp land act of 1850, the various land offices
continued open, and lands were sold by the United States
Which were subsequently claimed by the States under the provisions of the swamp act. This condition of things, no doubt,
led to some of the legislation by Congress and the State. of
Illinois after the act. of 1850, which will be referred to hereafter." The court then considered the acts of Congress of
September 28, 1850, March 2, 1855 and March 3, 18-57, and
the acts of the legislature of the State, of January 22, 1852,
and March 4, 1854, and thus continued:
"It is thus manifest, from the "legislation of Congress and
the legislation of the State, that it has always been the intention, both of the general government and of the State, to pro-.
tect the title of a purchaser of swamp lands. Congress, in
making the grant fo the State, had the right to impose such
terms and conditions as it saw proper, and the State, in granting the lands to the counties, had the undoubted power to provide that purchasers who had bought and paid for the lands
should be protected in their several purchases, as, in effect, it
did. The county of Cook derived its title to the land under
and by virtue of the act of 1852, as amended in 1854, and if
the acts do not pass the title to the -land in question, it is plain
that Cook County could not recover. The first section of the
act of 1852 is general in terms, granting all swamp lands
which had been granted to the State, to the respective counties; but section two qualifies section one, and declares that

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

whenever it shall appear that any of the lands granted to
the State shall have been sold, it shall be lawful for the

said counties to convey such lands to the purchasers thereof.
This was followed by an amendment, passed in 1854, requiring the county courts, by an order to be entered, to make
all necessary orders for securing to purchasers of swamp
'lands their titles to such lands.' Under this legislation it
is manifest that the State of Illinois never intended to transfer to the counties lands that had been entered from the
United States, but, on the other hand, the object was to protect the title of all purchasers. The language, 'it shall be
lawful for the said counties to convey,' did not leave a discretion resting with the county to hold the land or convey, as it
might think proper; but a positive duty was imposed to transfer such title as it acquired, to the purchaser from the United
States, and a county could acquire nro rights to the lands by a
refusal to observe the requirements of the statute. Indeed,
we think it a fair and reasonable construction of the acts of
1852 and 1854, when considered in connection with the acts of
Congress, to hold that where lands have been bought, in good
faith, from the United States, the title to such lands did not
become vested in the county, but passed to the purchaser,
under his entry.
"The copy of the certificate of entry procured from the
land office at Washington, and read in evidence, contained a
statement written across.its face, that the entry had been cancelled, and also another statement that it had been reinstated.
The commissioner of the general land office had no authority to vacate the entry, and any order that he may have
made did not affect the rights of Egan. Bi'ill v. Stiles, 35
Illinois, 305." S. . 85 Am. Dec. 364.
A- writ of error having been ailowed by the Chief Justice of
this court, and the record having been returned, errors were
here assigned as follows: That the Supreme Court of the State
of Illinois erred: (1) "In finding that the title to the land
mentioned in the declaration was not good in Cook County
under and by virtue of the act of Congress called the ' swamp
land act.,' in force September 28, 1850;" (2) "In not holding

COOK COUNTY v. CALUMET & CHICAGO CANAL CO.

649

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

that the title to said land was confirmed in said Cook County
by the act of March 3, 1857;" (3) "Both upon the facts and
upon the law in finding the title to said land to be in defendant in error and in entering judgment against the plaintiff in
error for costs;" (4) "In refusing to decide said cause upon
its legal merits and deciding it Upon the supposed iquities involved in said record ;" (5) "In sustaining the trial court in its
propositions of law refused for the plaintiff in error.and in sustaining the propositions of law held for the defendant in error; "1
(6) "In sustaining the trial court in the admission of improper,
testimony, to wit, the register and receiver's certificate to the
land in question, dated October 20, 1853, the same being illegal, and also because the same was cancelled August 10, 1855,
the subsequent chain of defendant's title resting upon said
cancelled certificate;" (7) "In sustaining the trial court in the
introduction of improper evidence, the register and receiver's
certificate of said land to John W. Bunn, M/Iay 24, 1870, and
the patent to his assighee, James H. Bowen, November 15,
1873 ;" (8) "In sustaining the trial court in permitting evidence to show that the land was not swamp land on October
28, 1850; the same having been certified by the government
surveyor general to be swamp land October 29, 1853."
31r. Edgar,Terhune, .M'.William G. Ewing, f. Con8ider
H. Willett and .Mr. Charles B. TVobd for plaintiff- in error.
I. The facts of the record give this court jurisdiction.
Crowell v. .Iandell, 10 Pet. 368,. 392; .1arti v.Huzter, 1
Wheat. 304; Chouteau v. Eekhar4 2 How. 344 ; Cunningham
v. A.hley, 14 How. 377; Bell v. Rlearne, 19 How. 252; Garland v. .Wynn, 20 How. 6; Lytle v. A-rkansas, 22 How. 193;
Jefersom Branch Bank v. Skelqy, 1 Black, 436 ;, Bridge )5ro."
prietors v. loboken Co., 1 Wall- 1,16; Reichart v. Feps, 6
Wall. 160; Silver v--Ladd, 6 Wall. 440; 10ailroadv. Smith, 9
Wall. 95; .fartin v. .Marks, 97 U. S. 345; Hartma7 v. GreenIo.w, 102 U. S. 672; .Zaldwin i . Stark, 107 U. S. 463; 'Wright
v. Roseberry, 121 U. -S. 488; Hoadley v. San _Fancisco, 124
U. S.- 639.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

II. Legislative grants convey an absolute present title as of
the date of their passage. Such was the swamp land grant
conveying the land in question to the State of Illinois, September 28, 1850. So was the act of the legislature of Illinois conveying such land to Cook County, June 22, 1852.
Wright v. Roseberry, 121 U. S.488; French v. Fyan, 93 U. S.
169; Railroad Co. v. Fremont County, 9 Wall. 89; Railroad
v. Smith, 9 Wall. 95; iltartin v. Alarks, 97 U. S.345; Supervisors v. State's Attorney, 31 Illinois, 68; Dart v. Hercules,
34 Illinois, 395; Smith v. Goodell, 66 Illinois, 450; Keller v.
Brickey, 78i Illinois, 133; Bristol v. Carroll County, 95 Illinois,
84; WTPabasX &f St. louis Railway v. XcDougal, 113 Illinois,
603.
III. The certificate of the commissioner of the land office
that the land had been selected as swamp land was evidence
of title. .artin v. Aarks, 97 U. S.345.
IV. The list of swamp lands in the office of the State
Auditor of the State of Illinois, was also sufficient evidence
that the title to the land in question-had become vested in the
'State of Illinois. Dart v. 11ercules, 34 Illinois, 395; County
of Piatt v. Gumley, 81 Illinois, 350; -Kellerv. Brickey, 78 Illi"nois, 133; Bristol v. Carroll.County, 95 Illinois, 84; F'ench v.
_Fyan, 93 U. S.169. And a certified copy thereof is competent evidence. Wabash & St. Louis Railway Co. v. .XcDougal, i13 Illinois, 6.04.
V. The State of Illinois by act of Congress of September
28, 1850, became vested with the title to the land in question,
and such title was granted to the county of Cook by the first
section of the act of June 22, 1852, when the obligation of
such grant was impaired by the act of. March 4, 1854, which
divested the plaintiff of such title and conveyed it to a subsequent entryman..
iCr. Charles . Osborn and Mr. Samuel A. Lynde for deAndant in error.
MI. CHIEF JusTIc FULLER, after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.

COOK COUNTY v. CALUMET & CHICAGO CANAL CO.

651

Opinion of the Court.

The rule is settled that to give this court jurisdiction of a
writ of error to a state court it must appear affirmatively, not
only that a federal question was presented for decision by the
highest cour of the State having jurisdiction, but that its
decision was necessary to the determination of the cause, and
that it was actually decided, or that the judgment ds rendered
could not have been given without deciding it. -De Saussure
v. Gaillard, 127 U. S. 216; Johnson v. RiZ, 137 U. S. 300.
Tested by this rule this writ of error cannot be sustained.
The Supreme Court of Illinois held that title passed to that
State by the act of Congress, and that the plaintiff established
aprima.acieright to recover, but that as the State, in granting the lands to the counties, had the undoubted power to
provide that purchasers who had bought and paid for the
lands should be protected in their several purchases, and had
so provided by its act of 1852, and this land had been "sold
by the United States" to Egan after September 28, 1850,
withfn the meaning of that act, no title passed to the county.
The judgment of the state court proceeded wholly upon the
construction of the terms and conditions of the grant of the
State to the county by the act of 1852, and as amended by
the act of 1854, and the validity of those enactments was not
drawn in question.
The effect claimed by counsel as attributable to the act of
Congress of 1850, as operating as a grant inpr senti to the
State of Illinois, was given to it by the Supreme Court, and
the confirmatory act of Congress of March 3, 1857, did not
enter into the decision of the case, because under the conclusion reached there was no title in plaintiff to be confirmed.
There Was no decision against a claim or title asserted under
the United States, but simply that the county did not obtain
title under the grant of the State; that the act of 1852 imposed a positiye duty on the county to transfer such title as it
acquired to the purchaser from the United States; and that
where lands had been bought in good faith from the United
States, the title to such lands did not become vested in the
county but passed to the purchaser.under his entry. This
construction by the state court of the laws of the State is

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

controlling in the premises. Gormley v. Clark, 134 U. S.338,
348, and cases cited.
It is said. that as Cook County was under township organization law in 1852, and hence under the government of a
board of supervisors and not of county courts, it had no special
legislative authority to dispose of swamp lands until the passage of the act of March 4, 1854, (Sess. Laws, 1854, p. 184,)
imparting that power, and that, therefore, the second section
of the act of 1852 did not apply to that county. While this
point does not seem to have been presented to the state court,
yet, if thet State did not intehd to transfer title to the lands
that had been entered from the United States, as was held by
the court, the mere want of power to convey, which was at
the next session of the general assembly supplied, would not
require a different construction to the contrary of such intentibn.
As the acts of Congress referred to in the first and second
errors assigned did not. purport to vest title to swamp lands in
Cook or any other county, and the court only passed upon the
alleged grant by the State, we are unable to perceive that any
federal question was, in this regard, necessarily or in fact
decided.
It is further assigned for error that the Supreme Court sustained "the trial court in the admission of improper testimony,
to .wit, the register and receiver's certificate to the land in
question, dated October 20, 1853, the same being illegal, and
also because the same was cancelled August 10, 1855, the
subsequent chain of defendant's title resting upon said cancelled certificate." And the argument is that the validity of
an authority exercised under the United States, namely, the
action of the Land Department, was drawn in question, and
that the decision was against its validity because against the
validity of the alleged cancellation.
-The trial court was not requested to hold the entry void
because of cancellation, and we think the plaintiff's objection
io the admission of the certificate in evidence, and its request
for a ruling that the Egan entry was cancelled, and that such
cancellation, "in the absence of any facts or.evidence showing

COOK COUNTY v. CALUMET & CHICAGO CANAL CO.

653

Opinion of the Court.

the circumstances which led to its cancellation, must be presumed to have been based upon sufficient facts to authorize it,"
did not draw the validity of the authority of the department
in question within ยง 709 Rev.' Stat. upon which section our
jurisdiction rests.
The validity of a statute is not drawn in question:every time
rights claimed under such statute are controverted, nor is the
validity of an authority every time an act done by such
authority is disputed.
The validity of the authority here wag not primarily denied,'
and the denial made the subject of direct inquiry. United
States v. Lynch, 137 U. S. 280; Baltimore & Potomac Railroad v. Hlopkins, 130 U. S. 210.
The court may have concluded that the transaction as shown
by the memoranda was a substitution by Egan, with the consent of the officers of( the Land Department, of warrant No.
101,043 for the original warrant No. "24195, which, for some
erasure, was suspended; and that the alleged cancellation was
not a cancellation of the purchase and entry, but of the location under the suspended warrant, and that, although the
official order of substitution was not made by the commissioner
until 1883, yet it was manifest from the endorsements that
it had been made, in fact, in 1855. At all events, it ruled
that the entry by Egan, and the receipt and retention by the
United States of the money and warrant delivered by him in
payment therefor, was a sale by the United States of the land
to Egan.
Certainly the plaintiff did not specially set up or claim any
title by reason of the alleged cancellation, (and the court
rendered no decision against a title so specially set up or
claimed.: Chappell v. Bradszaw, 128 -IT. S. 132.
In Neilson v. -Lagow,7 How. 772, 775, the plaintiff claimed
land under an authority-.exercised by the Secretary of the
Treasury in behalf of theUnited States, and the decision was
against the validity of the authority thus exercised, and such
was the case in Lytle v. Arkansas, 22 How. 193.
The claim of title here was under the act of the legislature
of Illinois, and the question arising on Egan's entry and pur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

chase of the land was as to whether the land had been sold by
the United States within the intent and meaning of the act of
June 22, 1852.
The Supreme Court did indeed say, in relation to this matter, that the commissioner had no authority to vacate the
entry, and that any order that he might have made did not
affect the rights of Egan, and cited to the proposition the case
of Brill v. Stiles, 35 Illinois, 305, where it was held "that the
mere fact that an entry has been declared void by the commissioner of the general land office does not have the effect of
vacating the entry." In other words, the court was of opinion
that the commissioner could not, without notice, and arbitrarily, deprive a person of land lawfully entered and paid for,
as was ruled in Corneliu8 v. .Eesel, 128 U. S. 456, 461.
But the expression of this view in construing the language
of the state statute was not a decision against a title specially
set up or claimed uhder an authority exercised under the
United States, nor against the validity of such an authority.
It is, however, earnestly urged that the Supreme Court
erred "in holding that, under the act of June'22, 1852, of said
State, said land was conveyed to said Cook County, upon
a condition, and not absolutely, the action of said court in
holding that the act of March 4th, 1854, of said State, transferred said title of Cook County in said land to William B.
Egan, and his assigns, impaired the obligation of the contract
in said act of 1852, whereby said land was conveyed to said
Cook County." This contention as we understand it, is, that
although the county was merely. a public corporation, and
held the swamp lands for public purposes as an agency of the
State, yet the act of 1852 was a contract between the State
and the county which the State could not by subsequent legislation change; and that the act of March 4, 1854, impaired. the
nbligation of the, grant to the plaintiff in the prior act. We
canuot find that .-his question was raised in the trial court or
in the Supreme C8iprt, hor do we understand that the Supreme
Court held, as asse ted, that the act of 1854 transferred the
title of Cook Couni to Egan. ' It was the act of 1852 that
the court proceeded pon, and the act of 1854, relating to the

COOK COUNTY v. CALUMET & CHICAGO CANIAL CO.

655

Opinion of the Court.

manner in which the conditions imposed by the act of 1852
should be given effect, added nothing to those conditions, and
was not treated by the court as controlling the question of
title. And it would be sufficient to dispose of the contention
that no such point was raised in the state court.
As to the admission in evidence of the certificate to Bunn
and the patent to Bo*en, the trial court made no findings as
to this entry, and the decision of the Supreme Court makes no
reference to it; nor do the other assignments of error require
any observations.
These swamp lands were granted to the several States -in
which they were situated for the purpose, expressed on the
face of the act, of enabling them to construct the necessary
levees and drains to reclaim them; and the language of the
proviso to the second section was "that the proceeds of said
lands, whether from sale or by direct appropriatioi in kind,
shall be applied,*exclusively, as far as necessary, to the purpose of reclaiming said lands by means of the levees and drains
af6resaid." We have repeatedly held that the State had full
power of disposition of the lands, and that the application of
the proceeds to the purposes of the grant rested upon the
good faith of the State, which might exercise its discretion as
to their disposal. .Aills County v. Railroad Companies, 107
U. S.557, 566; United States v. Louisiana,127 U. S.182, 187.
.The acts of the general assembly of the State of Illinois
were in entire harinony with the acts of Congres and the
intention of the legislation was, as the Supreme Court of
Illinois held, to protect the title of purchasers from the United
States, after the passage of the act of September 28, 1850,
which took effect as a grant in prmsenti, while it was sought
-by the Illinois acts to secure to the counties the right to receive
the consideration for the lands, as well as to the purchasers
the title of the State.
We have carefully considered the record in the light of thd
elaborate arguments of counsel for plaintiff in error, but are
constrained to hold that we have no jurisdiction to review the
judgment of the state court, and the writ 6f error will, therefore, be
_Dismis8d.

