OCTOBER

TERAl 1890.

Syllabus.

we could interfere with the imprisonment of the plaintiff in
error. When the highest court of a State holds that a judgment of one of its inferior courts imposing punishment in a
criminal case is valid and binding to the extent in which the
law of the State authorized the punishment, and only void for
the excess, we cannot treat" it as wholly void, there being no
principle of federal law invaded in such ruling.
Judgment aflirmed.
CLAY v. FIELD.
FREEMAN v. CLAY.
FIELD v. CLAY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
Nos. 895, 1085, 1091. Submitted October 27, 1890.-Decided March 2, 1891.

The surviving partner in the management of a plantation in Tennessee
which belonged to the deceased partner, retained possession of it after
his partner's death, and of the slaves upon it, and continued to operate
the plantation in good faith, and for what he thought were the best
interests of the estate of the deceased as well as "his own. When the
war came, the plantation was in the theatre of the conflict, and at its
close the slaves became free. Beld, that, under the circumstances, the
surviving partner in a general settlement was not accountable for the
value of the slaves, but was accountable for the fair rental value of
the property, including that of the slaves while they were slaves.
An action for dower is not exempt from, or excepted out of, the act fixing
the jurisdictional amount necessary for an appeal to this court.
If several persons be joined in a suit in equity or admiralty, and have a
common and undivided interest, though separable as between themselves,
the amount of their joint claim or liability will be the test of jurisdiction;
but where their interests are distinct, and they are joined for the sake of
convenience only, and because they form a class of parties whose rights
or liabilities arose out of the same transaction, or have relation to a
common fund or mass of property dought to be administered, such
distinct demands or liabilities cannot be aggregated together for the
.purpose of giving this court jurisdiction by appeal, but each must stand
or fall by itself alone.
The words "received on settlement to this date," where there was a partnership account running through years, may refer to a settlement for
the year, or a settlement for tle whore period of the partnership; and
this ambiguity, being a latent one, may be explained by evidence aliunde.

CLAY v. FIELD.
Opinion of the Court.

IN EQUITY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

Mr.TV. L. _ATugent for Mr. and Airs. Clay.

.Mr. Edward -3lfayes for Mrs. Freeman.
ir. J. E .McKeighanand -Y'. T1rank Johnston for Field.
MIR.

JUSTICE BR-ALEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case was before us in October term, 1885, upon a
decree dismissing the bill on demurrer. See Clay v. Freeman.,
118 U. S. 97. We reversed that decree, and remanded the
cause with instructions to enter a decree in conformity with
the opinion of this court, which was done. After various subsequent proceedings in the court below, a deciree was finally
made on the 15th of August, 1889, from which both complainants and defendants have appealed. Before adverting to the
subsequent proceedings, it will be necessary briefly to review
the case as stated in the bill, and as it appeared before us on
the former appeal.
In 1855, Christopher I Field and his brother, David I.
Field, purchased a plantation in Bolivar County, Mississippi,
called the Content place, for the purpose of working the same
in raising cotton and other crops as partners, the arrangement
being that David should occupy and manage the plantation
and all the Affairs of the partnership, and that each shnuld
share equally in the profits and losses. In the course of tne
business, Christopher I. Field, who had a plantation adjoining
the Content place, and was a man of large means, made sundry advances to the firm to pay for land purchased and other
things required in carrying on -the business, for which his
brother David executed, on behalf of the firm, several notes
or acknowledgments of indebtedness; one dated 23d of December, 1856, payable 1st of January, 1858, for the sum of
$7385.31, with six per cent interest from maturity; another
dated 20th of March, 1857, for the sum of $5666-, to be paid
with interest at six per cent from date; a third dated 5th of
June, 1858, for the sum of $1100; and a fourth dated 30th of
June, 1859, for the sum of $1389.29; in all, $15,541.27.
David I. Field (died on the 11th of September, 1859, leaving
VOL. cxxxvm-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of th

Court.

,his widow, Lucy C. Field, (who afterwards married one C. L.
Freeman,) and an infant son, David I. Field, Jr., who are the
defendants in this suit. At the time of David I. Field's death
his widow was in Kentucky, and did not return to Mississippi.
Of course the care of the plantation and partnership property devolved upon Christopher I. Field, as surviving partner;
but soon after the death of David letters of administration
upon his'estate were taken out by another brother, Ezekiel H.
Field, who went into possession of the plantation and continued to carry it on in the place and stead of his deceased
brother, for the benefit of the partnership, during the year
1860 and part of the year 1861. He left in the summer of
the latter year, when the disturbances occasioned by the civil
war rendered it hazardous, if not impracticable, to cultivate
the plaiftation or to secure any crops. It is charged in the
bill that the year 1859 was an unprofitable year, in consequence of the overflow of the river, and that during the year
1860 the crop raised was appropriated to keeping up the plantation, ditching and making other improvements, and that the
crop bf the year of 1861 was destroyed by the soldiers of the
Confederate States under military orders. It is also alleged
that no part of the crops ever came into the hands of Christopher I. Field, but all the proceeds that were realized were
applied to the payment of current expenses and debts of the
partnership, other than the debt due to Christopher I. Field,
which, it is alleged, has never been paid. During the war
Christopher I. Field, to prevent the capture of the slaves by
the fleets of the United States descending the river, removed
them to the State of Texas, and kept them there until the
surrender, but realized nothing from their, labor in Texas
beyond sufficient to pay for their maintenance and support.
After the surrender he had them brought back from Texas at
considerable expense, for the purpose of cultivating the plantation again, but most of them, claiming their freedom, abandoned it, and he was obliged to rent the plantation for what
he could get, and did rent it for a time to different persons,
but never received therefrom any results beyond the expenses
incidental thereto. Ezekiel H. IField, after quitting the plan-

CLAY v. FIELD.
Opinion of the Court.

tation in 1861, performed no further acts in the administration
of the estate, and resigned his position in May, 1866, and
some time in that year Christopher I. Field was appointed his
successor. Christopher died on the 18th of July,. 1867, leaving as his only heir at law the appellant, Pattie A. Field, now
Pattie A. Clay by intermarriage with Brutus J. Clay. the
younger. After the death of Christopher I. Field, and in
October, 1867, Brutus J. Clay, the elder, was appointed administrator both of his (Christopher's) estate and of the estate
of David I. Field, the plantation being at that time under
rent to Martin and Childress. During 1868 it was rented by
Brutus J.Clay, the administrator, to one Holloway; and in
1869 to the said Holloway and another person by the name
of Clay, but very little rent was collected which was not
required to make repairs consequent upon breaks in the
levees, etc. In March, 1868, Brutus J. Clay filed his accounts
as administrator of Christopher I. Field, in the probate court
of Bolivar County, Mississippi, and also commenced proceedings to have the interest of David I. Field in the Content
plantation sold for the purpose of paying his half of the
promissory notes given by the firm of D. I. Field & Company
to Christopher I. Field, before mentioned. These proceedings
are stated in the former report of the case, before referred to.
The probate court made a decree declaring the estate of D. L
Field insolvent, and authorizing the administrator to sell the
lands described in the petition; and accordingly a sale of D. I.
Field's half interest in the plantation was made at auction on
the 20th of December, 1869, and it was struck off to the
appellant, Pattie A. Field, by her attorney or some other person acting in her behalf, (she then being a minor, and ignorant
of the matter,) for the sum of $6000, and she receivd a deed
therefor, and a receipt for that amount was given as a credit
on the said. notes. Pattie A. Field then went into the possession of the property, and remained in possession until, the
bringing of the present suit, except as to such part as was set
off to the widow, Lucy C. Freeman, for her dower, in November, 1879. [The said sale, however, has been held void because.
of the abolishment of the probate court by the constitution.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court

adopted on December 1, 1869.] The bill states that the result
of the 'vorking Of the plantation whilst in possession of the
plaintiffs from 1870 to the time of the filing of the bill was
without profit, and that the complainant, Pattie A. Clay, incurred a loss of $2500 or $3000 by keeping possession of the
property and making repairs rendered necessary by the dilapidations arising from the war, the overflowing of the river, and
other causes for which she was not responsible. The bill sets
forth in detail a large amount of expenditures incurred by the
complainant for taxes and other expenses, and for necessary
repairs made by her.
In April, 1873, Lucy C. Field, the widow, filed a petition in
the chancery pourt of Bolivar County for her dower in one
undivided half of the Content plantation; and in 1875 a decree for allotment of her dower was made, and was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of Mississippi in 1876, so fat as the
affirmation of her right of dower was concerned. In 1879 she
further applied to the said cfancery court to have her said
dower set off to her in severalty, and a decree for that purpose
was made and carried into execution, and she has ever since
had possession of the portion set off to her. In September,
1880, the said Lucy commenced a suit, in the same court,
against the appellant, Pattie A. Clay, and her husband, to recover the rental value of her dower, wviilst in possession of
the said Pattie. This suit was removed into the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Northern District of Mississippi,
before, the commencement of the present suit, and evidence
was taken therein and sundry proceedings were had, and it
stood ready for trial when the bill in the present case was
filed. In November, 1880, David I. Field, the son and heir of
David I. Field, deceased, having attained his majority, brought
an action of ejectment in the United States Circuit Court
aforesaid against the said Pattie A. Clay and her husband for
the undivided half of the Content plantation, also demanding
$20,000 for the use and occupation of the premises from and
including the year 1870. Pattie A. Clay and her husband
filed a plea in said suit, and the action was pending when the
present suit was brought. The bill in the present case was

CLAY v. FIELD.
Opinion of the Court.

filed for the purpose of enjoining the prosecution of the said
two last-mentioned suits, and for the settlement of the partnership accounts of D. I. Field & Company, and payment out
of the partnership property remaining, (consisting only of said
plantation,) of the amount due to the estate of Christopher I.
Field, upon the four notes before mentioned. The complainants offered in the bill to account for all rents and profits received by them, claiming credit for all expenditures, taxes,
and repairs made on account of the property, and prayed that
the assets of the partnership might be marshalled and sold for
such balance as might be found due to the said Pattie as representative of her father's estate.
This bill was demurred to by the defendants, and the court
below sustained the demurrer as to so much of the bill as
prayed for a settlement of the partnership accounts, but overruled it so far as it related to an account of the rents and
profits due either to Lucy C. Freeman, in respect to her dower,
or to David I. Field in respect to his undivided half of the
plantation; thus in effect turning it into a suit against the
complainants instead of a suit by them. Thereupon evidence
was taken on the part of Lucy C. Freeman in support of her
claim for rents and profits upon her dower. David I. Field,
in March, 1884, filed an answer, stating that he had recovered
a judgment in his ejectment suit for one undivided half of the
plantation, and praying an account of rents and profits for
that half, to be taken in the present suit.
At this stage of the proceedings the complainants objected
to having the suit proceed for the purpose of merely taking
an account of rents and profits against them, and thereupon,
on the 6th of March, 1884, the court made the following
decree, to wit:
"Pattie A. Clay et al.
11,s.
"Lucy C. Freeman et al.

)
288.

"Be it remembered that this day came on to be heard the
above entitled cause; and, the parties appearing in open court,
by consent the account herein filed by the master is with-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

drawn, and the decree of reference hereinbefore rendered is
set aside; and counsel for complainants declining to avail
himself of the offer of the court to retain the bill for the purpose of stating an account, it is ordered, adjudged and decreed
that said bill be, and the same is hereby, dismissed, and that
complainants pay the cost, for which let execution issue; and
thereupon complainants prayed an appeal to the Supreme
Court of the United States, which is granted upon their entering into bond in the penalty of one thousand dollars, with two
sureties, conditioned according to law."
The complainants then appealed to this court, and the decree
of the Circuit Court ws reversed as appears by the report of
the case before referred to (118 U. S. 97).
In conformity with the mandate of this court, a decree was
made by the court below in June, 1886, ordering, amongst other
things, as follows, to wit:
"1. That the demurrers of defendants to complainants' bill
heretofore filed be, and the same are hereby, overruled, and
that the defendants answer within sixty days as of the present
term of the court."
"3. That the defendant, David I. Field, be, and he is hereby,
enjoined . from the further prosecution of his ejectment suit
against complainants and from suing out final process for the
enforcement of his judgment for rent therein, but may retain
the possession of the lands secured in said ejectment suit, subject to the rights of complainants under the judgment of the
said Supreme Court, to be hereafter determined and fixed."
,The complainants, then, by leave of the court, filed a supplemental billy stating as follows, to wit:
"1. After and notwithstanding the filing of the bill in this
cause, the defendant, Lucy C. Freeman, prosecuted her suit in
this court against your orators for arrearages in rent upon and
.for her dower interest in the Content plantation as shown in
the pleadings, and on the 12th day of June, 1884, after her
'demurrer and exception t6 your orator's original bill had been
sustained, recovered a final decree against your orator, Pattie
A. Clay, for $3092.34 and costs. On the 14th day of June,
1884,. on !motion, this judgment or decree was reduced to

CLAY v. FIELD.
Opinion of the Court.

$2200.15. The same, with the costs in the cause, amounting
to $165, your orator well and truly paid, and so performed the
said judgment and decree of the said District Court, from which
there was no appeal, as by the record of said cause doth appear.
"2. That said recovery and payment was not according to
right and justice, as appears from the opinion of the Supreme
Court of the United States on your orator's appeal from the
above decree of this court in this cause, and the said Lucy C.
Freeman ought in this cause to be .decreed and adjudged to
restore the said sum and costs to your orator or be compelled
to accept it as a charge against her in any accounting hereafter to be had in the cause.
"The premises considered, your orators pray as prayed in
the original bill, and that the said Lucy C. Freeman be adjudged
to restore to them the money so wrongfully secured by her in
the said cause, or for general relief."
The defendants, David I. Field and Lucy 0. Freeman, then
filed separate answers to the bill in the present case, alleging
in effect that David I. Field, deceased, was not in debt to the
partnership firm at the time of his death, nor the firm to
Christopher I. Field; that the latter controlled and managed
the property after his brother's death, though nominally in the
hands of Ezekiel HI. Field as administrator, and that for his
neglect to sell the same before the war (which it is alleged he
could have done at a great advantage) he was answerable for
and should be charged with the whole appraised value of the
personal estate of the firm, (which was $33,663,) and such
further sum as the evidence might show it to have been worth
at the date of David's death, and that the complainants should
also be charged with the reasonable rental value of said partnership real estate from the said date down to the date of the
accounting. This was the general purport of the defence.
A large amount of evidence was taken in the cause and in
March, 1888,the district judge holding the Circuit Court, upon
final hearing, delivered an opinion on the merits of the controversy, (34 Fed. Rep. 375,) and in June following maae a
decree settling the rights of the parties and the.principles nipr
which an account should be taken between -them

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

The case as developed by the evidence is very different from
what it appeared on the mere statements of the bill. By
those statements it was to be inferred that E. 11. Field, the
administrator of David I. Field's estate, in carrying on the
plantation in concurrence with the views of Christopher I.
Field, acted as an independent representative of the estate,
and with a view to its best interests under all the circumstances of the case, and free from any control on the part of
said C. I. Field. In such a case, as held by us in Hoyt v.
Sprague, 103 U. S.'613, the representative waived the peculiar
rights which he might enforce in regard to the partnership
property; and it follows, as a matter of course, that the
surviving partner is subject to no such extra liability as he
incurs when he continues to use the partnership property in
the business without the consent of the representative of the
deceased partner. The evidence, however, shows very clearly
that Ezekiel E3. Field was appointed administrator of the
estate of D. I. Field at the instance of C. I. Field, and was
altogether governed by him in the management of the estate.
In a letter from C. I. Field to David's widow, the said
Lucy, dated January 12, 1860, he said: "I have no desire to
do anything that will prove an injury to David's estate. I
sometimes fear it will take too long to pay the debts from
crops with the present force on the place. I had Ezekiel
appointed administrator because I was the largest creditor and
did not wish to settle with myself. I put him on the place to
live, thinking the negroes would be better contented, and
would be managed with more ease and less whipping. True,
I have the control and management of the whole, but it is
done through him. I am well satisfied it was for the best,
and shall wish him to remain there, if he will do so, as long
as'I have any interest in the property. Don't understand me
to think that you disapprove of it, for I do not think so." It
is apparent from this language that C. I. Field, whose plantation was next adjoining the Content place, and who was,
therefore, at hand to see all that was done on the latter, exercised general control over the partnership property after his
brother's death, without the sanction of a iesponsible and

CLAY v. FIELD.

43

Opinion of the Court.

independent representative of his estate. This aspect of the
case raises questions with regard to the principle on which the
partnership accounts should be adjusted, and the degree of
liability of 0. I. Field as surviving partner, which were not
before us when the case was here formerly.
Then we only decided that the complainants, as representing 0. I. Field, were entitled to have an accounting of the
partnership estate for the purpose of securing the payment of
the amount due to 0. I. Field, if anything, out of the partnership property. The court below had decided that they were
barred by lapse of time. We held otherwise, on the ground
that the complainants and their ancestor, C. I. Field, having been in possession of the property, lapse of time, or the
statute of limitations, did not run against them. The question now is as to the principles on which the settlement should
be made.
There is no doubt that 0. I. Field, after his brother's death,
acted in entire good faith and for what he supposed the best
interests of the concern, including his brother's interest as well
as his own. He did not nor did any one then anticipate the
great civil convulsion which soon took place and destroyed
the entire value of slave property, and very largely the value
of all other property, in the Southern States. The case in this
respect was an exceptional one, and it may be a question
whether ordinary rules can be strictly applied to it. C. I.
Field undoubtedly supposed that it would be more for the
interest of his brother's widow and infant child that the plantation should be continued in operation until a good purchaser
could be found, than that everything should be immediately
sold, which could not have been done without sacrifice; and
there is some evidence that the widow and her friends acquiesced in this view of the case, although she asserts that she was
anxious for an immediate sale. The general principle of law
undoubtedly is, that on the dissolution of the firm by the
death of one of the partners, it is the survivor's duty to settle
up the partnership affairs within a reasonable time, and pay
over to the representatives of the deceased partner the amount
due to them; and if he takes the responsibility of continuing

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the business of the firm, and using the property of the partnership, he becomes liable for losses that may occur, and it is in
the option of the representatives of the deceased partner either
to insist upon a division of the profits, which may be made in
t.ius carrying on the business, or upon being paid the amount
of the deceased's share in the capital, with lawful interest
thereon, after deducting his indebtedness to the firm. (See
Ludley on Part., Book III, chap. 10, pages 976 to 1046, 1047,
4t. ed.) The application of the rule in this case would, strictly
.pcaking, entitle the representatives of D. I. Field to call for
an account of his share in the capital of the concern at the
time of his death, with lawful interest. This is what they do
demand as regards the personal property, which was appraised
at $93,663, one-half of which, with the interest thereon, they
claim should be accredited to the estate of D. I. Field. But
this personal property consisted almost wholly of the slaves
on the plantation; and the court below charged C. I. Field
and his estate with the value of their service as long as they
continued slaves, as well as with reasonable rent for the real
estate during the whole period from the death of D. I. Field,
except the years 1863, 1864 and 1865, when the war was flagrant.
Under such anomalous circumstances and such unexpected
events, it seems hardly just to visit upon a surviving partner,
acting in good faith and with a view to the best interests of
all concerned, the strict consequences of the rule. In our view,
equity, when called upon to settle the mutual rights of the
parties, may very properly mitigate the hardships of the rule,
especially when, as in this case, the loss has occurred by public
war. The remarks made by this court, through Justice Swayne,
in Tate v. Norton, 94 U. S. 746, 747, (which was the case of
an administrator,) are somewhat apposite to the case now before us: "The intestate," said the court, "had been largely
engaged in raising cotton. The administrator put himself,
as it were, in the place of the deceased. Everything was carried on and conducted as before his death. Payments were
made to the widow from time to time, the children were supported and educated, the taxes were paid, crop's were raised,

CLAY v. FIELD.
Opinion of the Court.

the cotton was sold, and the debts were discharged as fast as
the circumstances permitted.

.

The commencement of

the war was the beginning of the troubles of the trust. The
State was a battlefield. Troops on both sides were there. The
slaves were sent to Texas for safety. The mules ind other
live-stock were swept away by the advancing and receding
tides of the conflict. The lands hardly paid the expenses of
cultivating them. Finally the slaves as property were stricken
out of existence. This involved a loss to the estate, according
to the original inventory, of more than $113,000 of the assets.
The administrator became wholly unable to pay this debt. The
answer avers that, but for the war, he could, by the year 1863,
have extinguished this demand also, and have then handed
over to the heirs a large and unencumbered estate for distribution among them. The record shows that this was not an
over-sanguine calculation. The calamity was unforeseen, and
one for which the administrator was not responsible."
Concurring in the views here expressed, we think with the
court below that it would be a very hard application of the
general rule relating to a dissolution of partnership by the death
of one of the partners, to compel 0.I. Field or his estate, under
the circumstances of this case, to account for the value of thoge
slaves, which in a few months were entirely freed from bondage
by operation of law, and no longer articles of property.
Whilst it is true that C. I. Field, after his brother's death,
might have sold the slaves and other property on terms which,
in the light of subsequent events, would have been greatly to
the advantage of his brother's estate, yet it seems clear from
the evidence that the reason he did not sell was that no oppprtunity offered of effecting a sale of the plantation at what ]e
deemed an adequate price. The sale of the slaves withoit
selling, the lands would have rendered the latter entirely uproductive and a dead weight in his hands. We think, therefore, with the court below, that 0. I. Field, as surviving partner, had some excuse for not selling the slaves until by the
progress of events it became too late to sell them at all. But
in assuming the responsibility of continuing the business of the
partnership, by carrying on the plantation; he became charge-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

able with the fair rental value of the property, whether he
succeeded in realizing it or not, and took the hazard of such
losses as might occasionally occur. We think, therefore, on
the whole, that the judge presiding in the court below;adopted
the proper course in disallowing the claim for the value of the
slaves, and charging C. I. Field and his estate with the fair
rental value of the property, including that of the slaves as
long as they were slaves, and crediting them with the taxes
paid and the permanent improvements. He could not do
more without making the law an engine of hardship and
severity; he could not do less without disregarding its plain
principles. An extract from his opinion will more fully show
the grounds on which his conclusion was based. After giving
a general history of the case and the making of the four notes
claimed to be still due and unpaid, he proceeded as follows:
"It is insisted upon the part of the defendants that if these
obligations were not paid at the death of D. I. Field they were
cancelled by the negligence of C. I. Field, as surviving partner,
to sell so.much of the personal property, including, if necessary,
the slaves, to pay off this indebtedness, which it is insisted
should have been done during the year 1860, when such property brought a high price and before its destruction; that this
personal property was then of much larger value than the
amount due on these obligations and all other indebtedness
of the firm. I am satisfied from the proof that this indebtedness did exist against the firm, but not against D. I. Field
individually, and that all the attempted proceeding to collect
the same against the estate of D. I. Field by a sale of the
lands was based upon a mistaken theory and without authority,
and are consequently void. Upon the death of D. I. Field the
title to all the personal property, including the slaves, belonging tb the firm, vested in C. I. Field, as sur'iving partner,
whose duty it was to have sold so much of it within a reasonable time to pay off this and all other indebtedness against
the firm. . . . The question is, did C. I. Field by this
neglect render himself liable-for the loss of this personal property and the value of the slaves as to the interest of defendants
therein, or estop himself from setting up the claim here made?

CLAY v. FIELD.
Opinion of tie Court.

"Considering the relationship of the parties and all the circumstances, it would, perhaps, be inequitable to hold so strict
a rule; but I am satisfied -that he had no power to continue
the operation of the plantation witb. the firm slaves, mules
and other property belonging to the firm, as a conitinuation
of the firm business, during the years 1861, 1862 and 1863,
and that he was liable for a reasonable rent for the land and
the hire of the slaves, stock and other property used in the cultivation of the plantation during the years 1861 and 1862, to
be applied to the payment of these obligations-no other indebtedness is shown now to -exist -and that as C. I. Field
and his administrator, Brutus J. Clay, and the complainant,
since her attempted purchase, has been in the possession of all
the lands, with the exception of. hrg. Freeman's doweri since
its assignment, the -complainant must be charged with a reasonable rent for the lands and the hire of the slaves, mules
and other property used in'making the crops of 1861 and 1862,
and for a reasonable rent of the lands since the 1st of January, 1866, omittjpgthe years 1863, 1864 and 1865; that such
"rents and7thse for 1861 and 1862, be credited upon the amount
due unqpithe obligations given to said C. I. Field, with inter.est upto the 1st of January, 1863, and that the rents accruing
-eome ing with the 1st of January, 1866, with interest for
1866;on The 1st of January, 1867, and so on from year to
.year tip to the present tim6, the rents and hire to be estimated
at what would be a fair and reasonable rent or hire to a solvent tenant for cash, taking the plantation and property as a
Whole, and crediting the complainant with tho amounts paid
for taxes and for such improvements as were necessary to retit
the lands at a reasonable price; also for the value of such
.improvements as may have added to the permanent value of
the lahds-not what they cost, but the value that they permanently may have added to the lands.
"It is insisted that the complainant should be considered
as a ._rtgagee in possession, and only chargeable with the
rents actually received.
"I am of opinion that as C. I. Field iegleeted to sell the
personal property when he should have aonc so, and by which

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

.neglect it was wholly lost to the defendants, the complainant
is not entitled to be considered as a mortgagee in possession,
and only liable for the rent received. The cause must be
referred to a master to take and state an account under the
rules stated and report the same to the next term of court.
As C. L Field was chargeable with the rents and hire for 1861
and 1862, he was entitled to the crops for those years; and,
being sole owner, the loss, as a matter of course, was his
alone."
A decree was made in substantial conformity with this opinionand an extended inquiry was had before the master for
the purpose of ascertaining the rental value of the plantation,
stock and slaves during the years 1861 and 1862, and of the
plantation and stock from and includifig the year 1866, no
account being taken for the years 1863, 1864: and 1865; and
the estate of C. I. Field was charged with the rents thus ascertained, year by year. On the other hand, the said estate was
credited with the four notes in question and interest thereon
year by year, except for the years 1863, 1864 and 1865; and
with the taxes paid on the property, and the expenditures
made for improvements that were necessary or which added
permanent value to the estate. In August, 1889, the master
made his report, showing, as the result of the account, a balance due from the estate of C. I. Field to that of D. I. Field,
on the 1st of January, 1889, of $3281.40. He also found
$3747.11 due from Lucy C. Freeman to the complainants for
the amount which they had paid to her for the rents and
profits of her dower, in satisfaction of the judgment obtained
by her against them in her suit. Both parties filed exceptions
to- the report, which were fully discussed before the court
below; the result being a readjustment of the amounts due
as follows:
Due from complainant to D. I. Field

.....

Due-from Lucy C. Freeman to complainant .

...
.

$4708 '78
.

2667 28

A. decree for these amounts was made accordingly, and the
injunction against D. I. Field from proceeding to collect the
rents and profits recovered by him in his action of ejectment

CLAY v. FIELD.
Opinion of the Court.

was made perpetual, but it was decreed that he be let into
possession of the undivided half of the Content plantation.
Other proper directions were made in the decree. All the
parties appealed, -the complainants and the two defendants,
Mrs. Freeman and David I. Field separately.
A question has been raised as to the jurisdiction 'of this
court to entertain the appeal of M rs. Freeman. The decree
against her is only for the sum of $2667.28, but little more
than half the amount necessary for an appeal to this court.
Her case is a distinct one, and her appeal is a distinct and
separate appeal. We do not see how it can be so connected
with that of D. I. Field, the other defendant, as to be an incident of his, or ancillary thereto. Her estate of dower was a
distinct estate, and she prosecuted her supposed rights thereto
in a distinct and separate proceeding. The decree against her
is that she refund the amount above named to the complainant
from whom she had recovered it in a separate action by way
of damages, or rents and profits in dower. Unless the action
of dower is exempt from, or excepted out of, the act fixing the
jurisdictional amount necessary for an appeal, we have no
jurisdiction in this case. We are not aware of any ground on
which such an exemption or exception can be placed. It seems
to us that the case comes clearly within the principle which
has governed the decisions of this court in a large number of
cases, in one of the latest of which (Gibson v. Shufdldt, 122
U. S.-27) the previous cases are reviewed and classified. We
refer particularly to the cases of Henderson v. Wadsworth, 115
U. S. 264 ; Stewart v. -Dunham,115 U. S. 61; Hawley v. Fairbanks, 108 U. S. 543; Farmers' Loan & Trust Co. v. Waterman, 106 U. S. 265; Russell v. Stansell, 105 U. S. 303; and
Seaver v. Bigelows, 5 Wall. 208. Many other cases stand in
the same category, but they are referred to and commented
on in the cases cited. The general principle observed in all is,
that if several persons be joined in a suit in equity or admiralty, and have a common and undivided interest, though separable as between themselves, the amount of their joint claim
or liability will be the test of jurisdiction; but where their
interests are distinct, and they are joined-for the sake of con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

venience only, and because they form a class of parties whose
ights or liabilities arose out of the same transaction, or have
relation to a common fund or mass of property sought to be
administered, such distinct demands or liabilities cannot be
aggregated together-for the purpose of giving this court jurisdiction by appeal, but each must stand or fall by itself alone.
The principal cases in which the interest has been deemed
common and undivided, and appeals have been sustained, are
87tields v. Thomas, 17 How. 3; .3farket Co. v. Hqfl'man, 101
U. S. 112; The Connemara,103 U. S. 754; The 3famie, 105
U. S. 773; Davies v. Corbin, 112 V. S. 36; _ctes v. Gunter,
121 U. S. 183; and 17andley v. Stutz, 137 U. S. 366. Mrs.
Freeman's case does not come within the principle of any of
these cases. As before stated, the estate of dower claimed by
her was a distinct estate, and she sued for it in a separate proceeding. She and her son are joined in this suit because they
claim interests in the same land,; namely, D. I. Field's undivided half of the Content plantation, which the complainant
seeks to have subjected to the partnership liabilities; but the
interests severally claimed by them in said land are entirely
distinct and separate from each other; Mrs. Freeman's appeal,
therefore, will have to be dismissed.
As we have already expressed our views with regard to the
main point involved in the case, and in reference to the general
view taken by the court below, it will not need an extended
discussion to dispose of the particular questions raised on the
exceptions to the master's report, and assigned for error here.
It is contended by D. I. Field that the due bill given to C. I.
Field on the settlement of June 13, 1859, was a settlement
and adjustment of the whole partnership accounts up to that
date. We do not think that this is implied from the terms
of the i ote. The most that can be said is that the words,
"Received on settlement to this date," are ambiguous, and
may refer to a settlement for the year, or a settlement for the
whole period of partnership. This ambiguity, being a latent
one, is removed by the evidence in the case. Settlements seem
to have been made each year. The other notes were given at
nearly annual periods previously. The last previous note for

CLAY v. FIELD.
Opinion of the Court.

$1100 was given just a year before this; and the one before
that a little over another year. The continued possession of
the notes by C.I. Field, uncancelled, is presumptive evidence
that they had not been paid. Ezekiel II. Field, the brother
and administrator of D. I. Field, testified that D. I. Field
owed his brother $12,000; that he understood this from both
of them. His evidence is a little confused, as he speaks of a
single note for that amount; but afterwards he says there
were several notes, and that he saw them in his brother 0. I.
Field's possession, and that they were signed by D. I. Field.
0. F. Clay, a nephew, and intimate with the parties, testifies
to his understanding that D. I. Field was indebted to his
brother, and he had seen the notes in the latter's hands.
On the whole, we are satisfied that the note referred to,
namely, that given on the 13th of June, 1859, whs not given
in settlement of the entire partnership account, but only of
the operations of the year immediately preceding. It seems
evident to us, from all the evidence on the subject, that at the
time of giving the last note (which was only a short time
prior to the death of. D. I. Field) there was na unsettled
matter between the partners except the partnership notes
which had been given to C. I. Field.
The next assignment of error made by D. I. Field is that
the surviving partner should have been charged with the
value of the slaves and personaf property, and with the depreciation of the real estate. This point is involved and discussed
in the former part of this opinion, and requires no further
observation on our part.
The remaining assignment relates to the accounts taken
before the master, respecting which D. I. Field complains
(1st) that the rents were placed by the commissioner at too
low a rate for the years 1861 and 1862; (2d) that David I.
Field's estate should have credit for $5579 paid by him on the
Kirk note; (3d) that the allowance for improvements was
much too great. After a careful examination of the evidence
on these points, we are satisfied that these exceptions are not
well taken, and that, at least, no injustice was done to the
estate of D. I. Field.
voL. cxxxVn-31

OCTOBER TERI,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

The complainant, on the other hand, contends that the
rents for 1861 and 1862, as allowed by the commissioner,
were too high, and that a sufficient amount was not allowed
for improvements. The evidence on these points is- conflicting, and as to the allowance for improvements we do not
see any good reason for questioning the result reached by
the commissioner and the court below. But as to the rents
charged to 0. I. Field for the years 1861 and 1862, it does
seem to us that they are somewhat excessive, considering the
state of the country at the time. Sheriff Carson testified that
during those years the taking care of property, real or personal, was quite equal to its value; and another respectable
witness for the complainant says that the arable land was
worth five dollars per acre rent in 1861, though the crop was
burnt; but that in 1862 and the following years it was worth
nothing. Other witnesses say that it was worth ten dollars
per acre; but in view of the uncertainty of keeping the crop
from being destroyed, and of getting it out to a market, and
of the general uncertainty of everything in that time of war,
it seems to us that these estimates must be extravagant. The
commissioner charged seven dollars per acre rent for the 400
acres of arable land for the year 1861, and three dollars and a
half for the year 1862. We think that a rent of five dollars
per acre for the year 1861 was at least as much as ought to
have .been charged. Of course it is a matter that does not
admit of certain dalculation ; but it seems to us clear that the
amount charged was too high for that year. This, with the
interest for one year, would make a difference of $848 in
the amount to be carried to the 1st of January, 1863, and from
thence over to the 1st of January, 1866, according to the
mode of making up the account; and with interest from
thence to the 1st of January, 1889, it would make a difference
in the result of $2018.24, being that amount to be deducted
fi om the decree in favor of the defendant D. I. Field, and
reducing said decree to the sum of $2690.54.
The complainant excepted to various other matters in the
account and has assigned errors upon them here; but from
the best consideration we have been able to give to them, we

BUNT v. SIERRA BUTTE GOLD MINING CO.

483

Statement of the Case.

are not satisfied that any error has been committed, assuming
that the account should be made up in conformity with the
directions of the decree. If it were necessary to go into a
discussion of the different points in detail, we could not do
better than to quote the final opinion of the court below in
relation thereto. But no useful purpose could be thereby subserved.
Our conlusion is that the appeal of Lucy C. FIreeman must
be dismissed, and that the decree in favor of David I.
Fieldshould be reversed and a decree be rendered that the
complainant, .PattieA. Clay,pay to said David I. Field
the sum, of $2690.54, with interest from the first day of
January,1889; and that each partypay his and her own
costs on this appeal, except the cost of printing the record,
which shall be paid one-half by the appellant, Pattie A.
Clay, and one-half by the appellants, Lucy C. Freman
and David I Field. And the cause is remanded with
inst7uctions to modify the decree in conformity with this
opinion.
:MR. JUSTICE BRowN, not having been a member of the court
when this case was argued, took no part in the decision.

BUIIT v. SIERRA BUTTE GOLD MINING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 168. Argued and submitted January 28, 1891. -Decided

March 2, 1891.

The owners of a mine are not liable to an action for the falling of the roof
of a tunnel upon a miner who, knowing that the roof is shattered and
dangerous, voluntarily assists in removing a supporting timber, and, before another has been put in its place, sits down to rest at that spot.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

