OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

the act of 1869, by its language, contemplated and required a
railroad, and thus a highway from Cincinnati outward into
territory subservient to its business interests, the act in question before us locates neither the road nor its termini. If the
letter of the statute alone be regarded, power is given by this
statute to construct a railroad in Alaska. Neither location
nor termini are prescribed, and the general power is given to
construct a railroad not exceeding seven miles in length. Can
an act containing such indefinite provisions, with an appropriation of township aid so limited as to foreclose the idea of
a constructd and equipped railroad, and whose thought of
mingling phblic aid with private capital is so evidenced, be
,one which can be sustained, in the face of the. inhibition of the
constitution of the State of Ohio? We think not.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the
case remanded with. instruction8 to override the demurrer
to the answer.

BRI
APPEA

ER v. REBMAK.

FROM THE CIRoUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
No. 1154. Submitted January 5, 1891.-Decided January 19, 1891.
A statute of Virginia, entitled " An act to prevent the selling of unwholesome meat," approved February 18, 1890, (Laws of Virginia 1889-1890,
63 c. 80) declares it to be unlawful to offer for sale, within the limits of
that State, any beef, veal or mutton, from animals slaughtered one hundred miles or more from the place at which it is offered for sale, unless
it has been previously inspected and approved by local inspectors appointed.under that act. It provides that the inspector shall receive as
his compensation one cent per pbund to be paid by the owner of the
meats. The act does not require the inspection of fresh meats from animals slaughtered within one hundred miles from the place in Virginia at
which such meats are offered for sale. Held, that the act is void, as being in restraint of commerce among the states, and as imposing a discrimi nating tax" upon the products and industries of some States in favor
of the products and industries of Virginia.
The owner of meats from animals slaughtered one hundred miles or over

BRIMMER v. REBIAN.
Opinion of the Court.
from Virginia has the right to compete in the markets of that State upon
terms of equality with the owner of meats from animals slaughtered in
that State or elsewhere, within one hundred miles from the place at
which they are offered for sale.
The principle reaffirmed that, independently of any question of intent, a
State enactment is void, if, by its necessary operation, it destroys rights
granted or secured by the Constitution of the United States.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.X&. R. Taylar Scott and .M'. ]obdrt .A. ITughes for appellant.
Mr.
1 William . Ca pell, 2X&. F. C. Goudy and lir. A. H.
TFeeder for appellee.
Mm. JUSTI CE H&L-

delivered the opinion of the court.

William Rebman was tried and convicted before a justice
of the peace in Norfolk, Virginia, "a city of fifteen thousand
inhabitants or more," of the offence of having wrongfully,
unlawfully,' and knowingly sold and offered for sale "eightteen pounds of fresh meat, to wit, fresh, uncured beef, the
same being the property -of Armour & Co., citizens of the State
of Illinois, and a part of an animal that had been slaughtered
in the county of Cook and State of Illinois, a distance of one
hundred miles and over from the said city of Norfolk in the
State of Virginia, without having first applied to and had the
said fresh meat inspected by the fresh meat inspectors of the
said city of Norfolk, he, the said Rebman, then and there well
knowing that the said fresh meat was required to be inspected
under the laws of Virginia, and that the same had not been
so inspected and approved as required by-the act of the General Assembly of Virginia, entitled 'An act to prevent the
selling of unwholesome meat,' approved February 18, 1890."
He was adjudged to pay a fine of $50 for the use of the Commonwealth of Virginia, and $3.75 costs; and, failing to pay
these silms, he was, by order of the justice, committed to jail,
there to be safely kept until the fine and costs were paid, or
until he was otherwise discharged by due course of law

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

He sued out a writ of habeas corous from the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Virginia upon
the ground that he was restrained of his liberty in violation
of the Constitution of the United States. Upon the hearing
of the petition for the writ he was discharged, upon grounds
set forth in an elaborate opinion by Judge Hughes, holding
the Circuit Court. In re Rebman, 41 Fed. Rep. 867. The
case is here upon appeal by the officer having the prisoner in
cfistody.
The sole question to be determined is whether the statute
under which iRebman was arrested and tried is repugnant to the
Constitutidn of the United States. The statute is as follows:
"Whereas it is believed that unwholesome meats are being
therefore,
offered for sale in this Commonwealth;
"1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Virginia,
That it shall not be lawful to offer for sale, within the limits
of this State, any fresh meats (beef, veal, or mutton) which
shall have been slaughtered one hundred miles or over from
the place at which it is offered for sale, until and except it has
been inspected and approved as hereinafter provided.
"2. The county court of each county and the corporation
court of each city of this State shall, in their respective counties and cities, appoint one or more inspectors bf fresh meats
on the petition of not less than twenty citizens; and it shall be
the duty of said inspectors to inspect and approve or condemn
all fresh meat offered for sale in this State which has been
transported one hundred miles or more from the place at
which it was slaughtered.
"3. And for all fresh meat so inspected said inspector shall
receive as his compensation one cent per pound, to be paid by
the owner of the meat.
"4. It shall be the duty of any and all persons, firms or
corporations, before offering for sale in this State, fresh meats,
which under the provisions of this act are required to be inspected, to apply to the fresh meat inspector of the county or
city where the same is proposed to be sold and have said meat
inspected; and for a failure so to do, or for offering to sell
any fresh meats condemned by said inspector, the person, firm,

BRIMMER v. REBMAI

.

Opinion of the Court.

or corporation so selling or offering to sell shall be fined not
less than fifty nor more than one hundred dollars for each

offence, to be recovered before any justice of the peace ,of the
county or city where the violation occurs; provided that, in
cities of fifteen thousand inhabitants or more one-half 'of the
fees of inspectors shall be paid into the State treasury; and
provided, further, that nothing in this act shall apply to the
counties of Accomac and Northampton.
"5. The said inspectors, before discharging the duties herein
imposed, shall take and subscribe an oath before the court appointing them to faithfully discharge said duties, and the several courts are respectively empowered to rem6ve, for cause,
any inspector and to appoint another or others instead.
"6. This act shall be in force from and after the first day
of March, eighteen hundred and ninety." Acts of 'Virginia,
1889-90, p. 63, c. 80.

The recital in the preamble that unwholesome meats were
being offered for sale in Virginia cannot conclude the question
of the conformity of the act to the Constitution. "There may
be no purpose," this court has said, "upon the part of a legislature to violate the provisions of thai; instrument, and yet a
statute enacted by it, under the forms of law, may, by its
necessary operation, be destructive of rights granted or secured by the Constitution;" in which case, "the courts must
sustain the supreme law of the land by declaring the statute
unconstitutional and void." .innesota v. Barber, 136 U. S.
313, 319, and authorities there cited. Is the statute now bez
fore us liable to the objection that, by its necessary operation,
it interferes with the enjoyment of rights granted or secured
by the Constitution ? This question admits of but one answer.
The statute is, in effect, a prohibition upon the sale in Virginia of beef, veal or mutton, although entirely wholesome, if
from animals slaughtered one hundred miles or over from the
place of sale. We say prohibition, because the owner of such
meats cannot sell them in Virginia until they are inspected
there; and being required to pay the heavy charge of one
cent per pound to the inspector, as his compensation, he cannot compete, upon equal "terms, in the markets of that ComVOL. Cxxxvm- 6

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

monwealtb, with those in the same business whose meats, of
like kind, fromanimals slaughtered within less than one hundred miles from the place of sale, are not subjected to inspection, at all. Whether there shall be inspection or not, and
whether the seller shall compensate the inspector or not, is
thus made to depend entirely upon the place where the animals from which the beef, veal, or mutton is taken, were
slaughtered. Undoubtedly, a State may establish regulations
for the protection of its people against the sale of unwholesome meats, provided such regulations do not conflict with the
powers conferred by the Constitution upon Congress, or infringe rights granted or secured by that instrument. But it
may not, under the guise of exerting its police powers, or of
enacting inspection laws, make discriminations against the
products and industries of some of the States in favor of the
products and industries of its own or of other States. The
owner of the meats here in question, although they were from
animals slaughtered in Illinois, had the right, under the Constitution, to compete in the markets of. Virginia -upon terms of
equality with the owners of like meats, from animals slaughtered in Virginia or elsewhere within one hundred miles from
the place of sale.. Any local regulation which, in terms or by
its necessary operation, denies this equality in the markets of
a State is, when applied to the people and products or industries of other States, a direct burden upon commerce among
the States, and, therefore, void. Welton v. .2&iouri,91 U. S.
275, 281; Railroad Co. v. Huen, 95 U. S. 465 ; .Minnesota v.
-Barber, above cited. The fees exacted, under the Virginia
statute, for the inspection of beef, veal and mutton, the product of animals slaughtered one hundred miles or more from
the place of sale, are, in reality, a tax; and, "a discriminating tax imposed by a State, operating to the disadvantage of
the products of other States when introduced into the firstmentioned State, is, in effect, a regulation in restraint of commerce among the States, and, as such, is a usurpation of the
pcwers conferred by the Constitution upon the Congress of
the United States." Walling v. Aichigan, 116- U; S. 446, 455.
Nor can this statute be brought into harmony with the Con-

BRIMMER v. REBMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

stitution by the circumstance that it purports to apply alike
to the citizens of all the States, including Virginia; for, "a
burden imposed by a State upon interstate commerce is not to
be sustained simply because the statute imposing it applies
alike to the people of all the States, including the people of
the Slate enacting such statute." .Minnesota v. Bar'er,above
cited; Robin8 v. Shelby Taxing -District,120 U. S. 489, 497.
If the object of Virginia had been to obstruct the bringing
into that State, for use as human food, of all beef, veal and
mutton,.however wholesome, from animals slaughtered in distant States, that object will be accomplished if the statute before us be enforced.
It is suggested that this statute can be sustained by presuming -as, it is said, we should do when considering the validity
of a legislative enactment - that beef, veal or mutton will or
may become unwholesome, "if transported one hundred miles
or more from the place at which it was slaughtered," befde
being offered for sale. If that presumption could be indulged,
consistently with facts of such general notoriety as to be
within common knowledge, and of which, therefore, the courts
may take judicial notice, it ought not to control this case, because the statute, by reason of the onerous nature of the. tax
imposed in the name of compensation to the inspector, goes
far beyond the purposes of legitimate inspection to determine'
quality and condition, and, by its necessary operation,, obstructs the freedom of commerco among the States. It is, for
all practical ends, a statute to prevent the citizens of distant
States, having for sale fresh meats (beef, veal or mutton), from
coming into competition, upon terms of equality, with local
dealers in Virginia. As such, its repugnancy to the Constitution is manifest. The case, in principle, is not distinguishable
from .Xinneota v. Barber, where an inspection statute of
Minnesota, relating to fresh beef, veal, mutton, lamb and pork,
offered for sale in that State, was held to be a regulation -of
interstate commerce and void, because, by its necessary operation, it excluded from the markets of that State, practically,
all such meats - in whatever form, and although entirely
sound and fit for human food- from animals slaughtered .in
other States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Without considering other grounds urged in opposition to
the statute and in support of the judgment below, we are of
opinion that the statute of Virginia, although avowedly
enacted to protect its people against the sale of unwholesome
meats, has no real or substantial relation to such an object.
but, by its necessary operation, is a regulation of commerce, beyond the power of the State to establish.

Judgment ajz:rmed.

UJNITED STATES v. CENTRAL PACIFIO RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM

THE COURT

OF CLAIMS.

No. 758. Argued November 21, 22,1890.-Decided January 26, 1891.

Since the passage of the act of May 7, 1878, 20 Stat. 58, c. 96, ยง 1, the sums
expended by the Central Pacific Railroad for betterments and improve:
ments on its road, its buildings and equipments, whereby the capital of
the Company invested in its works is increased in permanent value,
are not to be regarded as part of its current expenses to be deducted from
its gross receipts in reaching and determining the amount of the net
earnings upon which a percentage is to be paid to the United States.
The case of Union Pacific Railroad Co. v. United States, 99 U. S. 402, distinguished from this case.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Xr. Attorney General for the United States.
.Ar. JosepA E. .XoDonald and Mr. Josep'A -.
for the Central Pacific Railway Company.
MR. JusTicE BRADLEY

.oCammon

delivered the opinion of the court.

This -is an appeal from the-Oourt of Claims. The claimant,
the Central Pacific Railroad Company, filed a petition October
31, 1887, to recover from the United States.the sum of $804,
994.31,, all.ged to be due for dervices rendered to the War,

