NEW ORLEANS v. GAINES'S ADMINISTRATOR.

595

Syllabus.

their joint account. In Clinan v. Cooke, 1 Sch. & Lef. 22,
41, Lord Redesdale indicated, as a test, whether the party let
into possession could have been treated as a trespasser in'the
absence of the parol agreement, and this has been accepted by
many writers upon equity jurisprudence as a most satisfactory
criterion. Now, it does not appear in this case that the antecedent relations of the defendant to this land were changed by
reason of this contract, and it does appear that the only change
that took place, in fact, arose from .the plaintiffs' withdrawal
in favor of the defendant, and fromi their refraining to prosecute an adverse claim which wAs never filed. This would
clearly be insufficient to take the case out of the statute. If,
in fact, plaintiffs had been in the exclusive possession of the
lode in question, and defendant had never been in possession
or exercised acts of ownership until the bargain was made
between them, and the plaintiffs had surrendered possession
in pursuance of the contract, it would have been easy to set
forth such facts in unequivocal terms, and not have left them
to be inferred from the ambiguous averments of this complaint.
There was no error in sustaining the demurrer, and the
judgment of the court below must be

NEW ORLEANS v. GAINES'S ADMINISTRATOR.
GAINES'S ADMINISTRATOR v. NEW ORLEANS.
APPEALS FROINI THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Nos.1293, 1320. Argued January 15, 16, 1891. -Decided March 2,1891.

This suit was commenced in August, 1879, and was brought against the
city of New Orleans to recover the rents, fruits, revenues and profits of
135 arpents of laud, situated in the city, from the year 1837 to the time
of the accounting sought. This land had been purchased by the city
from one Evariste Blanc in 1834, and afterwards disposed of to various
parties, except four or five blocks reserved for city purposes, which
were not in question. The city was sought to be charged with all the
rents, fruits and revenues of the land, whether in its own possession
dr in the possession of its grantees. In two previous suits brought

596

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

by Mrs. Gaines against the parties in possession, one against P. H. Monsseaux and othersand the other against P. F. Agnelly and others, (said
suits being in the nature of ejectmeuts,) decrees were obtained for the'
recovery of the lands held by the defendants respectively, and references
were made to a master to ascertain the amounts of rents and revenues
due. The total of these rents and revenues found and reported by the
master in the two suits was $517,049.34, which, with interest, calculated
up to January 10, 1881, amounted to the sum of $576,707.92. The bill further sought recovery for other and larger amounts; but it was decided
that the recovery must be limited to the claims so reported on by the
Master, and the decree was reversed and the cause remanded for further
proceedings in conformity with the opinion of the court. A decree was
accordingly made and entered in the Circuit Court, by which it was referred to a master to take testimony and report as to whether the defendant (the city of New Orleans) was entitled to any, and if so, how much,
reduction in the said decree of $576,707.92, by reason of any compromises and settlements of the judgments for rents in the said Agnelly and
Monsseaux cases, made and entered into by the complainant and any of
said defendants in said judgments for any less sums than the face
thereof. The result of the inquiry was that settlements had been made,
amounting to $220,213.16 which formed part of that gross amount, but
that Mrs. Gaines had actually received only $15,394.50. The court below
deducted this latter sum, and rendered a decree for $561,313.42. Held:
(1) That the right of Mrs. Gaines to pursue the city was an equitable
right, arising and accruing to her on the basis of her own claims
against the said defendants, and by subrogation to their equity to
be protected and indemnified by the city;
(2) That the acts of settlement in this regard amounted to a declaration
of the parties that Mrs. Gaines should exercise the equitable right
which she possessed, and that the assignment was merely in aid
of the equitable right, and might be available in a court of law;
(3) That the judgments were binding on the parties to them, and therefore were binding upon the city of New Orleans, which in most
cases had assumed the defence of the suits, and had been represented by counsel therein; that it was right and proper to consider litigation as at an end in those suits; and that the judgments
had passed into resjudicata;
(4) That article 2452 of the Civil Code of Louisiana, which declares that
the sale of a thing belonging to another person is null; it may
give rise to damages whei the buyer knew not that the thing
belonged to another person," does not affect the question here;
(5) That the grantees might be settled with'so far as their personal liability was concerned, without discharging the city, or other warrantors, provided it was §tipulated,.or shown to be the intention
of'the parties, that the city, or other warrantors, should not be
discharged, it being a general rule that discharge of a surety does
not discharge a principal; and that rule being applicable here.

NEW ORLEANS v. GAINES'S ADMINISTRATOR.

597

Opinion of the Court.
(6) That the death of a number of the defendants in the eases of ]fonsseaux and Agnelly who died before the remand of this cause from
this court to the Circuit Court, on occasion of the former appeal,
and before the decree of reference by the Circuit Court upon'the
mandate from this court without an attempt at revivor of thd
alleged decrees against the heirs or representatives of said deceased, cannot benefit the appellant;
(7) That the appellant cannot at this stage of the case raise the objection that one of the judgments for rent was obtained after the
death of the defendant in the suit;
(8) That the claim for the price of the lahds and the claim for the rents
and revenues of them can be prosecuted separately;
(9) That the claimant should have been allowed the costs of the suits
against Monsseaux and others and Agnelly and others.
Ordinary courtesy and temperance of language are due from members of
the bar in discussions in this court.
Ix EQuITY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Afred Goldthwaite for Gaines's Administrator.
Thomas J. Semmes was with him on the brief.

2fr.

-Yr.J R?. Beckwith for the city of New Orleans.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is the case which was before us in October term, 1888,
and the decision in which will be found reported in 131 U. S.
191, under the name of New Orleans v. Gaines's _Admiistrator. The suit was commenced in August, 1879, and was
brought against the city of New Orleans to recover the rents,
fruits, revenues and profits of 135 arpents of land,:situated in
the city, from the year 1837 to the time of the accounting
sought. This land had been purchased by'the city from one
Evariste Blanc in 1834:, and afterwards disposed of to various
parties, except four or five blocks reserved for city purposes,
which are not now in question. The city, however, is sought
to be charged with all the rents, fruits and revenues of the
land, whether in its own possession or in the possession of its
grantees. In two previous suits brought by Mrs. Gaines against
the parties in possession, one against P. H. Monsseaux and

OCTOBER TERM, 1890
Opinion of the Court.

others, and the other against P. F. Agnelly and others, (said
suits being in the nature of ejectments,) decrees were obtained
for the recovery of the lands held by the defendants respectively, and references were made to a master to ascertain the
amounts of rents and revenues due. The total of these rents
and revenues found and reported by the master in the two
suits was $517,049.34, which, with interest, calculated up to
January 10, 1881, amounted to the sum of $576,707.92. The
bill in this case sought a recovery from the city of New
Orleans not only of the said last-mentioned sum, but also
.of a large amount, exceeding $1,300,000, for the rents and
revenues of unimproved property whilst in the possession and
ownership of the city. A decree was rendered in the court
below for both of these amounts, but for the reasons expressed
in the opinion of this court, reported in 131 U. S., the latter
amount was disallowed, and the decree was reversed. We
held that the city was concluded by the proceedings against
the tenants in possession in the two former suits referred to,
and must respond for the amounts decreed against the tenants
in those suits, subject to a reduction, however, in any of the
individual cases in which compromises had been effected for a
less amount than the sum adjudged. It was contended, indeed, by the complainant, that the city, by virtue of laiming
title to the property, and conveying it -to purchasers with a
guarantee, was primarily liable for all rents and revenues to
Mrs. Gaines and her representatives (the real owners of the
property) without reference to the grantees, and that no settloment with the latter could affect such primary liability.
We did not concur in that view, however, as will be seen by
reference to the opinion before referred to. We held that the
city was only liable to Mrs. Gaines, the true owner, in consequence of its engagements as vendor and warrantor to the
persons to whom it bad sold the property, through the equity
which those persons and their grantees had to be protected
from loss and damage by reason of defective title; and that
Mbrs. Gaines and her representatives could not hold the city
liable beyond that. We held further that as between the cit&
ad its gJrantees, the city was the principal debtor, and was
bound to protect them.

NEW ORLEANS v. GAINES'S ADMINISTRATOR.

599

Opinion of the Court.

The primary obligations of the parties are based upon two
articles of the Civil Code of Louisiana:
"Art. 502. The products .of the thing do not belong to the
simple possessor, and must be returned with the thing to the
owner who claims the same, unless the possessor held it bonz

jide."
It having been decided that the hok.u 's of Mrs. Gaines's
property under the sales of Relf and Chew (which is the case
here) are possessors in bad faith, the, above article makes them
responsible to her for the products, or, in other words, the
fruits or revenues.
"Art. 25606. When there is a promise of warranty, or when
no stipulation was made on -that subject, if the buyer be
evicted, he has a right to claim against the seller:
"1. The restitution of the price.
"2. That of the fruits or revenues, when he is obliged to
return them to the owner who evicts him.
"3. All the costs occasioned, either by the suit in warranty
on the part of the buyer, or by that brought by the original
plaintiff.
"4. The damages, when he has suffered any, besides the
price that he has paid."
Our views with regard to the obligations of the city enforceable in the present suit were expressed in the former case in
the following terms:
"As between the city and its grantee, the former, by reason
of its guaranty of title, is really the principal debtor, and
bound to protect the grantee as a principal is bound to protect
his surety. Therefore the grantee is entitled to such remedies as a surety hath; and when fixed by judgment, if not
before, may file a bill against his guarantor to protect. him.
Lord Redesdale says: 'A court of equity will also prevent
injury in some cases by interposing before any actual injury
nas been suffered, by a bill which has been sometimes called
a bill quia tiviet, in analogy to proceedings at the common
law, where in some cases a wiit may be maintained before any
molestation, distress or impleading. Thus a surety may file a;
bill to compel the debtor on a bond in which he has joined to

&00-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

pay the debt when due, whether the surety has been actually
sued for it or not; and upon a covenant to save harmless, a
bill may be filed to relieve the covenantee under similar circumstances.' [Cases cited.] In Lee v. Book, [Mosely, 318,] the
Master of the Rolls said: 'If I borrow money on a mortgage
of my estate for another, I may come into equity (as every
surety may against his principal) to have my estate disencumbered by him.'
"Then, if the grantees, who have been ousted, and who are
condemned in judgment to pay to Mrs. Gaines the rents and
revenues due to her, might have maintained a suit in equity
against the city to compel it to indemnify them, why may not
Mrs. Gaines be subrogated to the grantees' right and equally
maintain a suit against the city? The claim is an equitable
one. It is in proof that all the acts of sale of the city contained express agreements of guaranty, with right of subrogation; and an act of sale in Louisiana imports a guaranty
whether it is expressed or not.
"cBut if the suit could not be maintained on purely equitable grounds alone, there is a principle of the civil law obtaining in Louisiana, by the aid of which there can be no doubt
of its being maintainable. The Code Napoleon had an article
(Art. 1166) expressly declaring that creditors may exercise all
the rights and actions of their debtor, with the exception of
those that are exclusively attached to the person. It is true
that the Louisiana Code has no such article; but it is laid
down by writers of authority that this principle prevails in
French jurisprudence without the aid of any positive law.
(43 Dalloz, 239, etc., title "Yente,Arts. 932-935.) The decisions
to the contrary seem to be greatly outweighed by other decision. and by sound doctrine. The right thus claimed for the
creditor (the word creditor being used in its large sense, as in
the civil law) may very properly be pursued in a suit in
equity, since it could not be pursued in an action at law
in the courts of the United States; and all existing rights in
any State of the 'Union ought to be suable in some form in
those courts.
"We think, therefore, that this part of the decree, amount-

NEW ORLEANS vt GAINES'S ADMINISTRATOR.

601

Opinion of the Court.

ing to the sum of $576,707.92, with accruing interest, being
for the amount of the judgments obtained in the other suits,
ought to be allowed, unless subject to reduction for the cause
hereafter referred to."
Our conclusion was subsequently, in the same opinion,
expressed as follows:
"As to the residue of the decree, amounting to $576,707.92,
founded on the judgments recovered against persons in possession of various portions of the property, claiming under sales
made by the city of New Orleans, whilst those persons would
have been proper parties to the suit, in order that it might
appear that the sums recovered against them had not been
released or compromised for less amounts than the face of the
judgments, and that they might be bound by the decree, still,
as the objection of want of parties was not specifically made,
and as it would be a great hardship on all the parties concerned to have to begin this litigation bver again, we do not
think that the bill should be dismissed on that ground, but
that the said sum of $576,707.92 should be allowed to the
complainant, with interest thereon as provided in the decree
of the Circuit Court, subject, however, to the qualification
that, if the defendant can show that any of the said judgments have been compromised and settled for any less sums
than the face thereof, with interest, the defendant should be
entitled to the benefit of a corresponding reduction in the
decrere; and a reasonable time should be allowed for the.purpose of showing that such compromises, if any, have been
made. The result is that the decree of the Circuit Court must
be reversed, and the cause remanded, with instructions to enter
a decree in conformity with this opinion."
The mandate issued from this court, after reciting the formor
decree of the Circuit Court and reversing the same and awar&ing costs on the appeal, concluded as follows:
"Arid it is further ordered that this cause be a~ad the same
is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court with directions
to enter a decree in conformity with the opinion of this court."
In pursuance of this mandate, a decree was made and entered
in the Circuit Court, by which it was referred to a master to

OCTOBER TERM,. 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

take testimony and report as to whether the defendant (the
city of New Orleans) was entitled to any, and if so, how much,
reduction in the said decree of $576,707.92, by reason of any
compromises and settlements of the judgments for rents in the
said Agnelly and -[onsseaux cases, made and entered into by
the complainant and any of said defendants in said judgments
for any less sums than the face thereof.
An investigation was thereupon had, and evidence talen,
and from the master's report it appears that fifty-one of the
tenants had made settlements with Mrs. Gaines, or her representative; and that the aggregate of the judgments against
the tenants making such settlements, with interest to the 10th
of January, 1881, amounted to $220,213.16, forming part of
the gross amount of $576,707.92. The amounts of money
received by Irs. Gaines on these settlements were small, not
exceeding, in the aggregate, as found by the court below, the
sum of $15;394.50. The master, in considering whether the
settlements should have the effect to abate the amount of
the decree under the opinion of this court, came to the con
elusion that they should not. His views on the subject arc
expressed in brief as follows:
"The complainant has settled with the defendants in many
cases where they were evicted by selling the land back to the
defendants evicted and taking from said defendants their
claims against the city in part for the price, and sometimes it
constituted the entire consideration, but in every one of these
cases she: has expressly reserved to herself, where the subject
matter of her judgment for rents and revenues is mentioned,
the right to claim the amount of said judgments from the vendors of the defendant back to and including the city of New
Orleans,. and if it were not for the contention of counsel for
the defdndant that the legal effect of most, if not all, these
compromises made by the complainant with the defendants
had discharged the city from all obligation of warranty for
rents and revenues I might close this report with the statement made above-that there was no evidence going to show
that any sum had been received by the complainant on account
'of her judgments for rents and revenues or in any way to di-

NEW ORLEANS v. GAINES'S ADMINISTRATOR.

603

Opinion of the Court.

minish the sum of five hundred and seventy-six thousand seven
hundred and seven and ninety-two hundredths dollars ($576,'707.92,) the sum of the judgment in favor of complainant as
fixed by the Supreme Court."
After an examination of the objections to this view presented
by the counsel of the city, the master concluded his report as
follows:
"But I need not pursue this line of argument further, being
satisfied that the Supreme Court, in its opinion, has settled the
question of the right of Mrs. Gaines to b3e subrogated to the
right of the grantees and maintain a suit against the city of
New Orleans.
"The claim is equitable, and especially is this so under the
law of Louisiana, where the warranty and the right of subrogation is part of the act of sale, whether or not it is expressed
in the act of sale.
"I therefore report"1st. That the evidence discloses no case where Mrs. Gaines
has received any sum or sums on account of her judgments for
rents, revenues and values for use in the cases where compromises and agreements have been made between the complainant and the defendants.
"2d. I report that the legal effects of the acts of compromise do not diminish her judgments for rents or revenues, in
said Agnelly and Monsseaux cases, nor do they impair her
right to recover the amounts awarded to her in her decree as
fixed by the Supreme Court of the United States, say, five
hundred and seventy-six thousand seven hundred and seven
and ninety-two hundredths dollars ($576,707.92,) with five per
cent interest, as provided in the decree of the Circuit Court,
say, from January 10, 1881."
The first conclusion seems open to this criticism. Mrs.
Gaines did, in some of the cases, receive money. It is true
that the acts do not express on what account such money was
received ; but it is acknowledged to be in part consideration
of the contract on Mrs. Gaines's part, which contract is usually
a personal discharge of the tenant from any further claim for
money, and an agreement to convey the land as soon as t! e

OCTOBER TERM, :1890.
Opinion of the Court.

rents and revenues have been collected from the city, or
otherwise. Thus, the act of settlement between Mrs. Gaines
and Albin Rochereau, after reciting the recovery of two
judgments against Rochereau in the Monsseaux suit, the
first, establishing Mrs. Gaines's title, and the second decreeing to her for fruits, revenues and values for use the sum
of $6885.50 and interest, and $2006:50 costs; and reciting
the fact that Rochereau had an action of warranty against
his vendor and previous vendors, including the city of New
Orleans, as well for the price of the land, as for the amount
of said judgment and costs: it was agreed First. That Rochereau transferred to Mrs. Gaines his said
action of warranty for the price of the property.
Second. Rochereau requires his vendors, including the city,
to pay to Mrs. Gaines the amount they were respectively
bound for to him for fruits and revenues owing to said judgment therefor, and authorizing her to sue for the same.
The act then proceeds as follows:
"Third. And in consideration whereof and of the sum of
eleven hundred dollars, receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, the party of the first part hereby releases the party
of the second part from personal liability for the said judgment for fruits, revenues and values for use of the property
hereinbefore referred to, taking and accepting in lieu and
place thereof the said indebtedness in warranty of said preceding vendors, including the city of New Orleans, to the said
party of the second part.
"Fourth. And the party of the first part further agrees,
upon her obtaining final judgment against or settlement with
the city of Now Orleans in said action in warranty for the price
as set forth in article one of this agreement, to transfer and
surrender unto the party of the second part all her right, title
and interest in and to the property recovered by and described
in the said final judgment of the 30th April, 1877, being the
following." [Here describing the property.]
Here was an acknowledged receipt of eleven hundred dollars without specifying on what account, but manifestly as a
consideration (in part) of Mrs. Gaines's contract and acquit-

IEW ORLEANS v. GAINES'S ADMINISTRATOR.

605

Opinion of the Court.

tance. The same thing occurred in other cases, but generally
the amounts received were small. When the report came up
for consideration on exceptions, the court, whilst confirming
it in other respects, was of opinion that the sums thus received
by Mrs. Gaines ought to be deducted from the amount of the
decree; and having evidence that the aggregate thereof was
$15,394.50, that amount was deducted accordingly, reducing
the decree from $576,707.92 to $561,313.42.
The counsel of the city of New Orleans filed a large ilumher of exceptions to the report, all of which, except those
relating to the credit claimed for the above receipts, were
overruled, and some of which, -as well as some portions of the
brief filed on behalf of the city in this court, are obnoxious to
animadversion for want of ordinary courtesy and temperance
of language due from members of the bar. We trust we may
not be called upon to repeat an observation- of this kind.
So far as the exceptions filed to the report are made the
basis of any of the assignments of error in this court, they will
be noticed. Those assignments are twelve in number, and
will now be considered.
The first assignment asserts that the Circuit Court had no
jurisdiction over the cause and parties for compelling the city
of New Orleans to pay to the appellees the decrees in the
Monsseaux and Agnelly cases, because the defendants in those
decrees were citizens of the same State with the appellant, the
city of New Orleans, and could not themselves sue the city in
the federal court, and the appellees have no better right in
that respect than their assignors.
If the claim of Mrs. Gaines against the city depended upon
an assignment by the defendants in the Monsseaux and
Agnelly cases of -their rights against the city, arising froni
their eviction, the position of the appellant would be well
founded; but, as explained in our former opinion, this is not
the case. The right of Mrs. Gaines to pursue the city was an
equitable right, arising and accruing to her on the basis of her
own claims against the said defendants, and by subrogation to
their equity to be protected and indemnified by the city. Although a derived equity on the part of Mrs. Gaines, so far as

OCTOBER TERM, .1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the city is concerned, yet it is not created by assignment,
but by operation of law through the rules of equity. Hence
the assignment of error is not well fodnded in point of fact.
This may be more manifest by what will be said in relation
to the next assignment.
The second assignment of error repeats the objection made
in the first in cases- where any assignment or convention has
been made whereby any right has been assigned to Mrs.
Gaines so as to modify in any respect the legal rights resulting
from the situation of the parties. We do not see that this
specification has any greater force than the first. The written
conventions between Mrs. Gaines and the tenants or grantees
had the effect, not to confer upon Mrs. Gaines a right of suit
in equity, but rather to indicate the intention of the parties as
to her exercise of that right. The acts of settlement in this
regard amounted to a declaration of the parties that Mrs.
Gaines should exercise the equitable right which she possessed.
In terms, the several acts may indicate more. They may indicate the actual assignment of rights; but as Mrs. Gaines had
the right of prosecution by way of subrogation, independent
of any such assignment, the assignment did not destroy it or
take it away. It was merely in aid of the equitable right,
and might be available in a court of law.
Subrogation is not assignment. The most that can be said
is, that the subrogated creditor by operation of law represents
the person to whose right he is subrogated. But we have
repeatedly held that representatives may stand upon -their
own citizenship in the federal courts irrespectively of the citizenship of the persons whom they represent, -such as executors, administrators, guardians, trustees, -receivers, etc. The
evil which thle law was intended to obviate was the voluntary
creation of federal jurisdiction by simulated assignments. But
assignments by operation of law, creating legal representatives,
are not within the mischief or reason of the law. Persons subrogaated to the rights of others by the rules of equity are within
this principle. When, however, the State or the governor of
a State is a mere figure-head, or nominal party, in a suit on
a sheriff's or administrator's bond, the rule does not apply.

NEW ORLEANS v. GAINES'S ADMINISTRATOR%.

607

Opinion of the Court.

There the real party in interest is taken into account on the
question of citizenship. Spear's Fed. Jud. 150, 152, and cases
there cited; Coal Co. v. Blatchford, 11 Wall. 172; Rice v.
Houston., 13 Wall. 66; Browne v. Strode, 5 Cranch, 303; -hIrne
v. Lowry, 14: Pet. 293; .- fNutt v. Bland, 2 How. 9; I-Huf v.
.Uutchinon, 14: How. 586.
The third assignment of error complains that the Circuit
Court erred in supposing that, by the decree of this court, the
complainant was entitled to a definitive decree for the amount
of the judgments in the suits against Monsseaux and Agnelly,.
subject only to diminution by such amounts as Mfrs. Gaines
may have received in compromising with the several defendants; whereas the appellant contends that the said judgments
were open for examination as to any defence against them
which might be shown to exist, such as corrections to be made
for mistakes in the calculation of interest, and errors in entering the judgments after the decease of the parties, or for other
equally valid reasons. Upon an examination of the record,
however, we do not perceive that the court below misunderstood or departed, in this respect, from the terms of the decree
made by this pourt. The judgments were binding on the
parties to them, and therefore were binding upon the city of
New Orleans, which in most cases had assumed the defence of
the suits, and had been represented by counsel therein. We
supposed that it was right and'proper to consider litigation as
at an'end in those suits, and that the judgments had passed
into re8 adjudicata. If any fraud could have been shown and
proved in the entry of the judgments, the case might have
been different, provided the objection had been taken at the
proper time; but, although hints and charges oi fraud are
loosely madh in argument, we have not found that any frada
was proved; and it is too late at this time to search f6r erroi
in the proceedings in those cases, or.to review.the judgments
for the purpose of discovering errdr. The time for that has
gone by; and, besides, mere matters of error cannot be inquired of in this collateral war. This is not an appeal from
those judgments, and they cannotbe questioned on the ground
of mere error.. If any of them were absolutely void, it would

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

be another matter. We do not think that the assignment of
error in question, or the fourth assignment, which raises the
question of erroneous computation of interest, can be sustained.
The fifth assignment of error is based upon the supposition
that the defendants in the cases of Ivonsseaux and Agnelly
had been adjudged to be fraudulent purchasers of the property, with knowledge that it did not belong to their pretended
vendor, but that it did belong to Mrs. Gaines; that therefore
the sales made to such persons were a nullity under Art. 2452
of the Civil Code of Louisiana, which declares that "the sale
of a thing belonging to another person is null; it may give
rise to damages when the buyer knew not that the thing
belonged to another person." We are of opinion, however,
that this article does not affect the question here. The defendants in those cases, being purchasers either from the city
of New Orleans or its grantees, remote or immediate, are not
adjudged to have had actual knowledge of the vice in the
title of their grantors; and the grantors, having made express
contracts of warranty, cannot set up such knowledge, even if
it existed, to exonerate themselves from the ordinary obligations of their contract. If the position of the counsel for the
city was correct, no possessor in bad faith, though merely such
in law, and not in fact, could ever recover compensation from
the author of his title, however solemn may have been the
acts of sale and warranty by which the title was transferred.
The article of the code referred to (Art. 2452) is the same as
Art. 1599 of the French Code, and is derived from the old
French law. Pothier says: "The knowledge of the bbyer
that the thing does not belong to the seller, or that it is
hypothecated, does not prevent him from being received to
demand*a restitution of the price in case of eviction; neither
does it lrevent him from being received to demand the damages which he suffers beyond the price, if the warranty is
expressly stipulated by the contract, for it is only in those
cases when it is not stipulated that the buyer who has this
knowledge is excluded from his demand in damages." Pothier
on Sales, sec. 191.
Duranton, writing since the code was adopted, and com

NEW ORLEANS v. GAINES'S ADMINISTRATOR.

609

Opinion of the Court.

nienting upon it, says: "As to the second question, whether
the buyer who knows the danger of eviction, but has stipulated for a guaranty, has this right of guaranty, even for damages, we would decide according to the Roman law before
cited in the affirmative." Cours de Droit Fr. suivant le Code
Civil, vol. 16, No. 261. Troplong says: "According to this
article, 1599, the buyer who knows that the thing sold to him
belongs to another has no right to damages. But nothing
prevents the parties from making a contract in derogation of
this rule of law, and the stipulation for a guaranty places the
parties beyond the operation of Art. 1599." Troplong Venter
vol. 1, No. 469.
The same doctrine is laid down by Laurent, vol. 24, No. 260In the present case there was an express warranty in all the
acts of sale made by the city. There is, therefore, no foundation for this assignment of error.
The sixth assignment is as follows:
"The Circuit Court erred in passing into the account ancl
decree any part or portion of any pretended decree or decreesin the Monsseaux and Agnelly ejectment bills, where the decrees against the evicted had been either released, cancelled,.
modified, compromised or discharged, either before or afterthe filing of the bill in this cause, particularly the decrees
against the persons and defendants in the Monsseaux and
Agnelly bills set forth in 'Appendix. B' of this brief, madepart of this assignment of error for certainty, being a tabulated list of evicted, the decrees against whom were formally
discharged and released prior to the institution of this action.,,
The judgments referred to in this assignment are' the fiftyone judgments before mentioned, in regard to which settlements were made between Mrs. Gaines and the defendants,
and the assignment brings up the main question to be determined on this appeal; that question being whether, by these
settlements, Mrs. Gaines, or her representatives, waived ordischarged her claim against the city. The differant acts of
settlement were appended to the report, and form part of therecord on this appeal. The form in which a number of them.
is conceived has already been given in the case of Albin RocheVOL. cxxxvxu-39

610

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

reau. Other acts were in a somewhat different form, but there
was in no case an absolute discharge of the defendant or grantee without a reservation of right of subrogation against the
city of New Orleans, and other warrantors. In most cases
a small sum of money was received from the defendant, with
a transfer by him to Mrs. Gaines of his right to proceed against
' is warrantors, including the city of New Orleans, followed
by a personal discharge of such defendant from any further
claiih for fruits and revenues, with a contract td give him a
title to the land in his possession as soon as a recovery should
be had from the city. In other cases the defendant or grantee
surrendered and gave up to Mrs. Gaines the possession of the
land, and assigned to her all his rights against the city in consideration of a personal discharge from her claim for fruits
and revenues. Still other forms were also adopted, but in all
the right to prosecute the city was reserved. Under the peculiar law of Louisiana with regard to subrogation, as explained
in our former opinion, we think that Mrs. Gaines might make
settlements of this kind with the defendants or grantees without losing her claim against the city as warrantor and principal
debtor. The city was not injured thereby, having no claim
over against the defendant thus settled with. An absolute
payment or compromise of her claim without any such reservation might have had a different effect, inasmuch as it would
have shown that the intention of the parties was to extinguish
the claim altogether. Such was our view in the former decree
in providing for an abatement in regard to cases in which
compromises may have been made. As stated in our former
opinion, the city of New Orleans was the principal debtor as
between it and its grantees, immediate or remote. This being
so, such grantees might be settled with so far as their personal
liability was concerned, withoutdischarging the city, or other
,varrantors, provided -it was stipulated, or shown to be the
intention of the parties, that the city, or other warrantors,
should not be discharged. It is a general rule that discharge
of a surety dpes not discharge a- principal; and the equity of
that rule is applicable to the present case. The rule itself is so
self-evident that it hardly needs authority for its support. It
I

NEW ORLEANS v. GAINES'S ADMINISTRATOR.

611

Opinion of the Court.

is, however, directly asserted in the case of -Mortlandv. Hiines,
8 Penn. St. 265, and is laid down in Pitman on Prine. and
Surety, 176, 192 (Law Lib.). See also Zirby v. Taylor, 6 Johns.
Oh. 242, 250, to the same effect. Art. 2205 of the Civil Code of
Louisiana declares that "the remission or even conventional discharge granted to a principal debtor discharges the sureties.
That granted to the sureties does not discharge the principal
debtor. That granted to one of the sureties does not discharge
the others."
In our opinion, therefore, this assignment cannot prevail.
The seventh assignment of error complains that a number
of the defendants in the cases of Monsseaux and Agnelly died
before the remand of this cause from this court to the Circuit
Court, on occasion .of the former appeal, and before the decree
of reference by the Circuit Court upon the mandate from this
court; and that there had been no attempt at revivor of the
alleged decrees against the heirs or representatives of said
deceased. We do not see how the facts referred to can
benefit the appellant. The decree is not against those defendants who are said to be now deceased, but against the
city of New Orleans; and no change by death 'or otherwise
of the parties in said former suits could affect the rights of
Mrs. Gaines or her representatives in the present suit. The
prosecution of the city operated in relief of the obligations,
of the defendants in those suits, and if any of them die the
prosecution of this case will operate in relief of their lawful
heirs, whoever tby be, or their successions, however represented. We think -there is no force in the assignment. The
same may. be said with regard to the eighth assignment of
error, which complains that the court below erred in charging
the account against the city of New Orleans with the amount
of a pretended decree against Albin Souli6, rendered, as alleged, five years after his death, for rents accruing after his
death. The facts appearing in the record are, that SouRl6
resided in France, and was represented in this country by
Bernard Souli6, his brother and agent,*and that counsel were
regularly employed to represent him in the controversy, said
counsel being also the counsel of the city of New Orleans; and

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

that the suit was continued to its termination in the name of
said Albin Souli6, without any mention of his death. The
said Bernard, his brother, being his universal legatee, and
recognized as such in the probate court, it would be a fraud
upon the Circuit Court to set aside all those proceedings as
absolutely null and void. A judgment rendered after a defendant's death, without the plaintiff's fault, is not void. The
irregularity or error may be cured by entering it nuncpra
tunc of a date prior to the defendant's death; and even this
has been held not necessary in a collateral proceeding. Freeman on Judgments, §§ 57, 140, 153, and cases cited.
But it does not lie in the mouth of the city of New Orleans
to raise the question, at the present stage of the case, after
the decree passed by the Circuit Court and an appeal to this
court, and a remand of the cause to the Circuit Court for
further proceedings, during all which time this objection could
.have been made, but never was made until the matter came
before the master on the last reference. We think that the
appellant was estopped from raising the objection, and that it
cannot be urged now.
The ninth assignment of error asserts that the court below
erred in charging the city with the judgments against Amie
Gautier, Jules Bermudez and others, who had been formally
discharged by order of the court on motion of Mrs. Gaines,
complainant, before the bill in this case was filed. We do
not see how the discharge of the decrees against these defendants could have any greater effect in discharging the city
of New Orleans from its obligation than the personal discharge of the defendants by the several acts of settlement.
We have already considered the question, whether the city
was discharged from its obligation by the personal discharge
of the defendants in the other suits, and have expressed our
conviction that it was not. As it'was the intent of the parties
not to discharge-the city, and as one of the considerations of
the agreements for settlement was, that Mrs. Gaines should
pursue her remedy against the. city, it seems to us that the
manner in Which the defendants were discharged is of no consequence. It might have been by acts or deeds passed before

NEW ORLEANS v. GAIN-ES'S ADMINISTRATOR.

613

Opinion of the Court.

a notary, or by a cancellation of the judgments against the
parties, or in any other manner.
The tenth assignment of error is based on the fact alleged
and appearing in evidence, that in thirty-three cases in which
judgments had.been rendered in the Monsseaux and Agnelly
suits, the city had been sued upon the obligation of warranty
for the' recovery of the prices of the respective properties
involved, and judgments had been recovered and satisfied;
the aggregate amount being $65,500.59. The point of the
assignment of error is that the prosecution of these suits upon
the respective warranties therein propounded and the recovery
of a part of the demands under the said warranties, namely,
the prices of the lands, operated as a waiver and discharge of
the other liabilities arising upon the same warranties, viz. the
liabilities to restore the rents, revenues, etc,; that the contract
of warranty is one and undividable; that although upon the
breach of it a recovery may be had against the warrantor for
the restitution of the price, for the fruits or revenues, for costs
and other damages, yet only one suit can be maintained upon
the contract, and not different suits for the different matters
.ecoverable; and that the splitting of actions ipon single
demands is not allowed by the Code of Practice of Louisiana,
the 156th article of which declares: "If one demand less
than is due him, and do not amend his petition, in order to
augment his demand, he shall lose the overplus."
The thirty-three judgments referred to were obtained against
the city for the lsrice of certain lands. The present suit is
brought for the rents and revenues of the same and other
lInds. The thirty-three suits were brought in the- names of
t#e original defendants in the Monsseaux and Agnelly suits.
The present suit is brought in the name of Mrs. Gaines, under
her right of subrogtion. There does not seem to be any
good reason for saying that the claim- for the price and the
claim for rents and revenues may not be separated by the act
of the parties.. In some of the cases the defendants surrendered the land to 'Mrs. Gaines. In such cases there would
have been no incongruity in their reserving to themselves the
right of looking to the city for the pricd, and of giving to Mrs,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Gaines the right of looking to the city for the rents and
revenues. The price might well belong to them, and the rents
and revenues to her. Besides, the article of the Code of Practice referred to is a rule of practice, relating to the due order
of proceeding to prevent an unnecessary multiplication of
suits, and does not affect the equity and justice of the different
portions of the plaintiff's demand; and therefore the benefit
of the rule should be claimed, on the institution of a second
and unnecessary action, at an early stage of the. proceedings.
This cause went to a decree; that decree was appealed to this
court, -the appeal was heard, and the amount of the judgments for rents and revenues was sustained, and the matter
was referred back to the court below to make a single inquiry.
It was then too late, as it seems to us, if the suits for price had
been commenced before the present suit, to raise for the first
time the objection now made. But the fact is, that those
suits were commenced after the present suit, and the objection,
if taken at all, was one to be taken in those suits, and not in
this. We think, therefore, that this assignment of error is not
tenable.
The eleventh assignment of error is that the complainant,
Mrs. Gaines, had no right to recover the property in question
in the suits against Monsseaux and Agnelly, because they
acquired their title under Mary Clark, the grandmother of
Mrs. Gaines, and the first warrantor of the spurious title, who
falsely claimed ownership of the property under the first will
of Daniel Clark, dated in 1811, which was revoked by the will
of 1813 made in favor of Mrs. Gaines; and that therefore, as
Mrs. Gaines was the direct'heir at law of Mary Clark, as such
she was estopped from claiming the lands which her grandmother had fraudulently conveyed and through whose conveyance the defendants held possession of the lands as purchasers
thereof. If Mrs. Gaines had ever accepted the succession of
her grandmother, Mary Clark, as unconditional heir, she would
have been liable for Mary Clark's debts whether created by
warranty or other cause. But not otherwise. No such acceptance has been alleged 'or proved. But it is obvious that this
defence against the'claim of Mrs. Gaines, if it was a defence

NEW ORLEANS v. GAINES'S ADMINISTRATOR.

615

Opinion of the Court.

at all, should have been set up in the Monsseaux and Agnelly
suits, and not in this collateral way. The assignment is clearly
not well taken.
The remaining assignment is a general one which does not
call for particular observation.
In concluding this part of the case, we have only to say
that as far as the appeal of the city is concerned, we do not
find any error in the'decree of the court below.
The complainants, on their part, also appealed, and have
brought to our attention two matters which they regard as
errors to their prejudice. First,the allowance of the sum of
$15,394.50 as an abatement of the amount due from the city
on account of the sums received by Mrs. Gaines from the
parties with whom she made settlements; secondly, the nonallowance to the complainant of the costs of the suits against
Monsseaux and others, and Agnelly and others, which costs
amounted to the sum of $34,000.
As to the first specification, the counsel of Mrs. Gaines rely
upon a declaration of record made by the city of New Orleans,
in the civil district court of New Orleans, division .D,in a suit
brought against the city for the price of four several lots
recovered in the Monsseaux and Agnelly suits. The city in
that case, by way of peremptory exception, pleaded that Mrs.
Gaines had recovered against it, in the Supreme Court of the
United States, $576,707.92, with interest, decreed to be due
by the city on its warranty to said purchasers. It is contended
by the counsel for Mrs. Gaines that this declaration is an
estoppel against the city as to the amount of the decree in this
court, and that no reduction of it can be made on account of
the moneys received by Mrs. Gaines, or in any other way.
But we do not consider that this declaration has the effect
contended for by counsel. The city, in that case, simply
pleaded the decree of this court, such as it was, the point
being that a prosecution and recovery had already been had
.upon the same warranties which were sued upon in that case.
The effect of the averment as an estoppel cannot properly be
carried beyond the true purport and effect of the decree which
was the subject of the averment, namely, the decree of this

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

court. This was evidently the intent with which the averment was made, and we think that the city was not precluded
Aby the declaration in question from contending before the
naster that the amount of moneys actually received by Mrs.
Gaines on the judgments included in the decree should be
-charged to her. Especially do we think so, in view of the
terms of the said decree, which expressly allowed an inquiry
into any settlements or compromises that had been made.
'We think the court below committed no error in allowing the
said sum, and deducting it from the amount of the decree.
The payments which it embraced were clearly intended as
-payments on the respective judgments. There was no other
account to which they could be applied ; and as there was no
proof to the contrary, they must be presumed to have been
nade upon the money portion of said judgments.
As to the other point, the costs of the Monsseaux and
Agnelly suits, we think they should have been allowed. There
was nothing in the terms of our former decree which precluded such an allowance. The general effect of that decree
was that the fictitious rents and revenues allowed for unimproved lands, amounting to over a million of dollars, were
improperly allowed; but that the decree for the amount of
the judgments recovered against the defendants in the Monsseaux and Agnelly suits was proper and right, unless it could
be sho'wn that those judgments had been compromised for less
than the amounts due. The naming of the amount was for
the purpose of identification. There was nothing in this
general language that prevented the court below from including the costs of those suits in the decree. Our conclusion upon
the whole case, therefore, is that the decree of the court below
should be modified by adding to it the amount of said costs,
to wit, $34,000, with interest as adjudged in the original
decree of said court.
The cause is, therefore, remandedwith instructionsto the court
below to modify its decree in accordance with this opinion.
MR.
]SI.

Jus'ricE BRWER
JUSTIE GRAY

dissented.

was not present at the argument, and

took no part in the decision.

