PLEASANT TOWNSHIP v. EtNA LIFE INS. 00.

67

Statement of the Case.

United States, 123 U. S.227. Obviously, from the language
of the letter, the Secretary did not intend a reopening of the
case and a new adjudication, but simply to furnish to the
claimant such information as the records of his department
disclosed.
Without resting the case, however, on this last point we
hold, for the reasons first stated, that the judgment of the
Court of Claims was erroneous; and it must be
Reversed, and the case remanded with instructions for
further proceeding8 in accordance with the views herein

expressed.

PLEASANT TOWNSHIP v. fETNA LIFE INSURANCE
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 1214. Submitted December 18,1890.-Decided January 19, 1891.
The act of the legislature of Ohio of April 9, 1880, authorizing townships
having a population of 3683 under the census of 1870, "to build railroads and to lease or operate the same," and "to borrow money" "as a
fund for that purpose," and" to issue bonds therefor in the name of
said township," is repugnant to the provision in article 8, section 6 of
the constitution of that State, which provides that "the general assembly shall never authorize any county, city, town or township, by vote of
its citizens or otherwise, to become a stockholder in any joint stock
company, corporation, or association whatever; or to raise money for, or
loan its credit to or in aid of any such company, corporation or association"; and bonds of such a township, issued under the supposed authority
of said act, .are void.
It appearing that a decision of the highest court of the State of Ohio,
made prior to the issue of the bonds in controversy in this action, as to
the validity of such municipal bonds, was, argumentatively at least, in
conflict with decisions of the same court made after the issue of such
bonds, this court, following the rule laid down in Douglassv. Pike County,
101 U. S. 677, and Bwrgqess v. $eligman, 107 U. S. 20, in the exercise of
its independent judgment, finds the issue here in controversy to be invalid.

THIs was an action at laiv, to recover upon bonds issued by
the plaintiff in error to aid in the construction of a railway,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

under the act of the legislature of Ohio of April 9, 1880.
Demurrer to the petition, judgment for the plaintiff on the
demurrer, to review which the defendant sued out this writ of
error. The case is stated in the opinion.
3-L". Isaiah Pillars,-Mr". John -.Doyle and -Mr'.1. N. Alexrander for plaintiff in error.
-M. John

. Zee for defendant in error.

MR. JusTiE; BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action on bonds issued by the plaintiff in error
under the authority of an act of the legislature of Ohio, of
April 9, 1880. (77 Ohio Laws, pages 157 and following.')
The single question for consideration is the constitutionality of
that statute. For if the act is unconstitutional, the bonds
I " An act to authorize certain townships to build railroads, and to lease
or operate the same.
" [PLEASANT TOWNSIHIP, VAN WERT COUNTY.]

"SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Ohio,
That whenever in any township, which by the federal census of 1870 had,
and which by any subsequent federal census may have, a population of
thirty-six hundred and eighty-three, the township trustees thereof shall, on
the petition of not less than one hundred resident tax-payers of such
township, pass a resolution declaring it to be essential to the interest of
such township that a line of railway shall be constructed on the line to be
designated in said petition, and said railway shall be named in said resolution, and the termini thereof shall be designated therein, and not to exceed
seven miles in length. That it shall be lawful for a board of trustees appointed as herein provided, and they are hereby authorized to borrow'as a
fund for the purpose, not to exceed the sum of forty thousand dollars, and
to issue bonds therefor in the name of said township, bearing interest at a
rate not to exceed six per centum per annum, payable semi-annually. Said
bonds to be payable at' such time and places, and in such sums as shall be
deemed best by said board. Said bonds shalI be signed and sealed by the
president of said board, and attested by the clerk of such township, who
shall keep a register of the same, and they shall be secured by pledge of the
faith of such township, and a tax which it shall be the duty of the trustees
thereof annually to levy (which tax shall not exceed three mills on the
dollar in any one year), to pay the interest and provide a sinking fund for
final redemption of said bonds. . .

PLEASANT TOWNSHIP v. ETNA LIFE INS. CO.

69

Opinion of the Court.

were issued without authority, and are not binding upon the
township; while, on the other hand, if it is constitutional and
valid, no question is made as to the regularity of the proceedings which ended in the issue of the bonds.
To obtain a clear understanding of this question a reference
must be had to the constitution, legislation and judicial decisions of the State, in respect to railroad bonds. The constitution of Ohio, adopted in 1851, contained in article 8, section 6,
this prohibition: "The general assembly shall never authorize
any county, city, town or township, by vote of its citizens or
otherwise, to become a stockholder in any joint stock company, corporation or association whatever; or to raise money
for, or loan its credit to or in aid of, any such company, corporation or association." This provision was inserted in the
constitution, and adopted by the people, in view of the fact
then and since well known in the history of all States, particularly in the West, that municipal bonds to aid railroads
were freely voted in expectation of large resulting benefits an expectation frequently disappointed. It was a declaration
of the deliberate judgment of the people of Ohio that public
aid to such quasi public enterprises was unwise, and should be
stopped. The first effect of this constitutional provision was
the full withholding of all public aid to railroad enterprises.
Nothing broke this clear record of exemption from taxation
for railroad enterprises until 1869, when, on the 4th day of
M[ay of that year, the legislature passed an act which, though
general in its term§, as applicable only to cities having exceeding one hundred and fifty thousand inhabitants, was, by the
existing condition of municipalities, one in fact having reference solely to the city of Cincinnati. This act authorized such
city to issue bon~ds, and out of the proceeds thereof construct
a railway, one of the termini of which should be the city.
The validity of this act was sustained by the Supreme Court
of the State, at its December, 1871, term, in the case of Walker
v. The City of Cincinrnati,21 Ohio St. 14.
On April 22, 1872, the legislature passed an act to authorize
counties, townships and municipalities to build railroads. (69
Ohio Laws, 84.) This act was general in its terms, and gave

OCTOBER TER-M, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

power to any county, township or municipality to issue bonds
and build railroads, under certain restrictions. At the December, 1872, term, this act was adjudged unconstitutional and
void, as in conflict with article 8, section 6, heretofore quoted.
Taylor v. Ross County, 23 Ohio St. 22.
In 1880 several acts were passed by the legislature, authorizing certain townships to build railroads. These acts were
general in form, but special in fact. The one under which
these bonds were issued (77 Ohio Laws, 157) commences with
these words: "Be it enacted by the general assembly of the
State of the Ohio, That whenever in any township, which by
the federal census of 1870 had, and which by any subsequent
federal census may have, a population of thirty-six hundred
and eighty-three." The other acts passed contemporaneously
with this, by similar language, necessarily applied immediately
to townships north or south, and so situated as to include only
those on the continuous line of a railroad already projected and
surveyed. One of these acts, precisely like that under which
the bonds in controversy were issued, was brought before the
Supreme Court of Ohio at the January term, 1881, and
adjudged void, as in conflict with the section heretofore
referred to. Vy8caver v. Atkin8on, 37 Ohio St. 80. And a
like ruling was made in Counterman v. Dublin Townehip, 38
Ohio St. 515. While the particular act under which these
bonds were issued does not appear to have been presented tothat court, yet, as appears above, acts identical, save in the
language describing the township, and passed at the same session, and obviously part of a single scheme, have been presented
to that court, and by it declared void. In the judgment,
.therefore, of her highest tribunal, this act of the legislature of
the State of Ohio is unconstitutional, and the bonds issued
under it are without authority of law and invalid.
It is true that the defendant in error became the purchaser
and holder of these bonds before these last adjudications of
the state court. It did not, therefore, buy with judicial declaration that the series of acts, under one of which it claims,
was in conflict with the constitution; and yet, it purchased
without any such declaration that it was valid. It is claimed

PLEASANT TOWNSHIP v. ETNA LIFE INS. CO.

'71

Opinion of the Court.

that this act of 1880 was modelled on the statute of 1869 the Cincinnati act heretofore referred to; and that, therefore,
though not in terms, yet in fact, there had been a previous
judicial affirmation of the highest court in the State in favor
of such legislation. The rule laid down in .Douglassv. County
of Pike, 101 U. S. 677, is invoked; and it is urged, that whatever decision may, have been made by the Supreme Court of
Ohio since the purchase of these bonds by defendant in error,
its prior rulings were in favor of the constitutionality of such
legislation and the validity of the bonds; and that, therefore,
such judicial determination entered into and established the
contract of the township, and forever settled the' validity of
those bonds. Such was the view of the learned circuit judge
who decided this case. We would not weaken in the least the
authority of the case of Douglass v. County of Pike, supra.
There comes, incidentally, into this case that which is abundant justification of the rule there announced. The city of
Cincinnati, under the authority of the act of 1869, issued many
millions of bonds. These bonds are current in the market,
endorsed by the legislative act authorizing the city to issue
them, by the vote of the people of the city in favor of their
issue, and by the judicial declaration of the highest court -of
the State that the act of the legislature was constitutional
and valid. With such triple authentication, and relying upon
the case of Douglass v. County of Pike, supra, well may the
bondholders expect of this court a judgment against the city,
even if there shoula be a subsequent decision of the Supreme
Court of Ohio, against the constitutionality of such act, and
although the personal opinions of the members of 'this court
should be in harmony with that adjudication. In other words,
whatever may be thought of the constitutionality of a statute,
if it were a new question, there' may, by concurrence of legislative, judicial and popular action, become impressed upon
bonds issued thereunder an unimpeachable validity. But this
is not su'ch a case. While in the matter of structure there is
between the-act of 1869 and that of 1880 a striking resemblance, there are also marked differences. Even if in form
they were absolutely alikie, yet, as they are acts respecting dir-

OCTOBE1

TER-al, 1890.

Opinion of the Court.

ferent classes of corporations, the validity of the one would
not necessarily determine the validity of the other. A statute
empowering a county to issue bonds and buiId a jail might be
unquestionably valid; while a statute, in precisely the same
language, attempting to give the same power to a school district, might be as plainly unconstitutional and void. Here,
the act of 1869 was a grant of power to a city, a "municipal
corporation -proper," as Judge Dillon calls it in his work on
Municipal Corporations (volume 1, section 23); Wihile the act
of 1880 was a grant to a township- a "quasi corporation,"
as the same author calls it -a
distinction recognized in the
State of Ohio long before the passage of even the act of 1869.
Hamilton County v. MNighels, 7 Ohio St. 109. The differences
between these two classes of corporations it is unnecessary to
point out in detail. It is enough to say that one has, far
more than the other, the powers, capacities and duties of a private corporation; so that a delegation of power to the one, if
adjudged valid, does not justify the inference that a d'elegation
of a like power to the other must also be valid. So far, therefore, as judicial determinations are concerned, the purchaser
of these bonds had no express warrant from the Supreme
Court of the State to rely upon. So far as any mere implications and inferences from such judicial decisions are concerned,
they were stronger against than in favor of the validity of
these bonds. The statute of 1872, empowering counties and
townships -to issue bonds to build railroads, had been declared
void; and the statute of 1869 had been sustained, as is evident
from the opinion of the Supreme Court, because, as believed,
it was a special exception from the inhibition of the constitution. The purchaser of these bonds cannot, therefore, plead
judicial guaranty. It took the chances, and purchased at its
own peril. Was the act of 1880 in conflict with the constitution of Ohio? The Supreme Court of the State has said that
it was. 37 Ohio St. supra. We are not concluded by that
determination. In matters of contract, especially, the right
of citizens of different States to litigate in the Federal courts
of the various States, is a right to demand the independent
judgments of those courts. The settled law in that respect is

PLEASANT TOWNSHIP v.

TNA LIFE INS. C0.

73

Opinion of the Court.

well stated in the case of Burgea8 v. Seigman, 107 U. S. 20,
33: "Since the ordinary administration of the law is carried
on by the state courts, it necessarily happens that by the
course of their decisions certain rules are established which
become rules of property and action in the State, and have all
the effect of law, and which it would be wrong to disturb.
This is especially true with regard to the law of real estate
and the construction of state constitutions and statutes. Such
established rules are always regarded by the Federal courts,
no less than by the state courts themselves, as authoritative
declarations of what the law is. But where the law has not
been thus settled, it is the right and duty of the Federal courts
to exercise their own judgment; as they also always do in reference to the doctrines of commercial law and geiieral jurisprudence.
So when contracts and transactions have been
entered into, and rights have accrued thereon under a particular state of the decisions, or when there has" been no decision
of the state tribunals, the Federal courts properly claim the
right to adopt their own interpretation of the law applicable
to the case, although a different interpretation may be adopted
by the state courts after such rights have accrued. But even
in such cases, for the sake of harmony and to avoid confusion,
the Federal courts will lean towards an agreement of views
with the state courts if the question seems to them balanced
with doubt. Acting on these principles, founded as they are
on comity and good sense, the courts of the United States,
without sacrificing their own dignity as independent tribunals,
endeavor to avoid, and in most cases do avoid, any unseemly
conflict with the well-considered decisions of the state courts.
As, however, the very object of giving to the national courts
jurisdiction to administer the laws of the States in controversies between citizens of different States was to institute
independent tribunals which it might be supposed would be
unaffected by local prejtdices and sectional views, it would be
a dereliction of Jiheir duty not to exercise an independent
judiment in cases not foreclosed by previous adjudication."
In this ease our judgmerW accords fully. with that of th4
Supreme Court of the State in 87. and 38 Ohio St. 8?Ta.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Notice the constitutional provision. The significance of its in.
hibition is read in the evil which it was intended to remedy.
Common was the practice, theretofore, of issuing municipal
bonds to aid in the constr'uction of railroads. The practice
was felt to be evil, stimulating unnecessary railroad enterprises, and injuriously affecting the interests of the taxpayer.
The universal method of railroad enterprises was through pri.vate corporations. The possibility of other methods was unknown, or not seriously contemplated. So, when the people by
their constitution prohibited public aid to private corporations,.
obviously the thought was that all public assistance to the building of railroads was prohibited. The ingenuity of the lawyer
and the legislator, by means of which the letter of this prohibition was avoided, and a city enabled to construct a railroad
running from itself, to other parts of the country, as a great
highway of approach and distribution of its business, was obviously not expected (sr foreseen. We are not criticising the
*decisiQn in Walker v. Cincinnati, 21 Ohio St. aupra,as an erroneaus construction of the constitutional provision. We simply
note the fact that the statute therein construed was a skilful
avoidance of its generally understood scope. This exceptional
character was no nullification of the provision. On the contray, the Supreme Court, in its opinion in that case, clearly recognized and stated the force of such prohibition; and, noticing
* the exceptional character of this legislation,' by that very fact
-indicated that otherwise its force and scope were absolute and
wide reaching. It is one thing for a large city, with its concentration of business interests, to bWild, equip, and own a
great railroad highway. running from such centre outward
into other districts, rapid and easy communication with which
advapces its business interests;. and it is a very different thing
for a guaei municipal borporation, like a township, with its
sparse population, and its lack of concentration of business
interests, to 'construct a few miles of railroad througk its
territery. Business may demand the one - convenience alone
supports the other. The justification of the one is in the private. anid business element- which enters into a municipal corporation proper; the absence of which element in a qua8i

PLEASANLTT TOWNSHIP v. 2TNA LIFE INS. 0O.

75

Opinion of the Court.

corporation, like a township, forbids its investment in railroad enterprises. A railroad is a highway, but its character'
and mode of use make a large distinction between it and other
highways. A few miles of track, unequipped with rolling
stock and disconnected from other lines of track, are absolutely
worthless. An ordinary highway through a township, although disconnected. at either end with other highways, is of
practical benefit and substantial use to the people of the
township; but it is not so with a railroad track. Only in a
lengthenet1 line, with rolling-stock equipment, does a. railroad bec6me a thing of value. The act of 1869 contemplated
for the city of Cincinnati a lengthened line, with rolling-stock
equipment, and made ample provisions therefor. It meant
no investment of public funds in a short track to be utilized
thereafter by conjunction with other railroads, and made viluable by the infusion of private capital in the ultimate enterprise. It contemplated no minglifng of public and private
funds in the completed road. This matter was noticed by the
Supreme Court of Ohio in its opinion in the Cincinnati case,
when, after quoting the constitutional provision, it said: "The
mischief which this section interdicts is a business partnership
between a municipality or subdivision of the State and individuals or private corporations or associations. It forbids the
union of public and private capital or credit'in any enterprise
whatever. In no prdject originated by individuals, wbether
associated or otherwise, with a view to gain, are the municipal bodies named permitted to, participate in such manner
as to incur pecuniary expense or liability. They may neither
become stockholders norkfurnish money or-credit for the bene:
fit of the parties interested therein. Though joint st6ck corn'panies, c6rporations and associations only are named, we do
not doubt that the reason of the prohibition would render it
applicable to the case of a single individual. The evil would
be the same- whetlher the public suffered from the cupidity f
a single person, or from that of several persons associated
together." 21 Ohio St. 54-In determining'the constitutionality of any statute, its s.opQ
and effect are as proper for consideration as its language the

IP76

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

eyes of the court are never limited to the mere letter; and, so
construing the act of 1869, the court held that such act contemplated and provided for a completed and continuous line of
railroad, which, fully equipped, remained the property of the
city, and was a great highway which opened from itself outward into territory whose business would advance the commercial interests of the city. In like manner, when the court
came to consider the subsequent legislation with resp.ect to
counties and townships, including therein both the legislation
of 1872 and that of 1880, it properly considered what must be
the effect and operation of the statutes; and it ruled, that
obviously inder them all that was contemplated was a limited
distance of track, whose value could only be secured by mingling the funds of the township with other capital. By the
averments in this case, which, under the demurrer must be
accepted as true, a private corporation. had projected and surveyed a line of road running through several townships; and
the significance of these acts, was the securing of the right of
way and the grading -of the road-bed through these several
townships, with the view of thereafter placing this, thus
created, continuous line in the possession of some corporation
which would equip and operate it. And this combination of
statutes, with their several grants of township aid, cleirly discloses that there was no thought or possibility of either of the
townships building, equipping and owning an independent
railroad. Each separate act meant for its township not a railroad, but a road-bed. The practical value, the only real, resulting benefit, was in the incorporation of this road-bed into
-the railroad projected by, and to be practically operated and
made effective only through, private, capital. This is not a
mere matter of speculation. The descriptions in these various
acts of 1880 identify the- townships. They are, as alleged in
the answer, along in the line of a projected and surveyed railroad. This concurrence of separate township aid, by legislative sanction, establishes an intent to further the projected line
through public aid. But this act, wiith the others, in its particular operation, means not the building and ownership of a
railroad, but aid to a projected and lengthy line of railroad.

PLEASANT TOWNSHIP v. iETNA LIFE .INS. CO.

'7

Opinion" of the Court.

Such was the conclusion of the Supreme Court of Ohio. We
quote its language from 37 Ohio St.: "When viewed in the
abstract, it is difficult to see in-what manner, within the cofttemplation of the legislature, the proposed road could become
of such public utility.as to justify resort to taxation; but when
applied to the subject matter, under the existing circumstances
the legislative intent becomes quite apparent. Beaver Township, Noble County, the only township to which the provisions
of the act were intended to apply, is a sparsely settled agricultural district, with a population of 1684, without railroad facilities either within or bordering upon it. Without railroad
connections, it is quite certain that the proposed improvement
would be utterly useless; hence, in view of this fact, the trustees of the township designated the location of the proposed
road as follows: 'Running through said township from the
point that the Somerset railway intersects the east line of said
township and terminating where the Belair, Beaver Valley and
Shawnee Railway intersects the west line of said township.'
Neither of the connecting railways here mentioned is in existence, but only in contemplation, - the former having been
authorized to be built by Somerset Township, Belmont
County, by an act of the legislature, similar to the one now
under consideration, passed on the'18th of March, 1880. So
that it is quite evident that the legislative intent, as well as that
of the trustees of Beaver Township, was to make the proposed
road a link in a more extended route or line of railway. The
same intent is manifested in the fact that no provision was made
for the operating of the proposed rod by the township; but
power only was given to lease the same on completion, to any
person or persons or company which would conform to the
terms and conditions which the trustees should prescribe." 37
Ohio St. 91, 95.
The conclusion of that court was, we think, imperative
from the facts as developed. Beyond that, if we ignore all
surrounding circumstances, the fact is that the amount of the
aid to be voted was insufficibnt for the construction and equipment of a road of even short legth; and, turnini, to the mere
letter of the 'statute, we notice this significant fact. While

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

the act of 1869, by its language, contemplated and required a
railroad, and thus a highway from Cincinnati outward into
territory subservient to its business interests, the act in question before us locates neither the road nor its termini. If the
letter of the statute alone be regarded, power is given by this
statute to construct a railroad in Alaska. Neither location
nor termini are prescribed, and the general power is given to
construct a railroad not exceeding seven miles in length. Can
an act containing such indefinite provisions, with an appropriation of township aid so limited as to foreclose the idea of
a constructd and equipped railroad, and whose thought of
mingling phblic aid with private capital is so evidenced, be
,one which can be sustained, in the face of the. inhibition of the
constitution of the State of Ohio? We think not.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the
case remanded with. instruction8 to override the demurrer
to the answer.

BRI
APPEA

ER v. REBMAK.

FROM THE CIRoUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
No. 1154. Submitted January 5, 1891.-Decided January 19, 1891.
A statute of Virginia, entitled " An act to prevent the selling of unwholesome meat," approved February 18, 1890, (Laws of Virginia 1889-1890,
63 c. 80) declares it to be unlawful to offer for sale, within the limits of
that State, any beef, veal or mutton, from animals slaughtered one hundred miles or more from the place at which it is offered for sale, unless
it has been previously inspected and approved by local inspectors appointed.under that act. It provides that the inspector shall receive as
his compensation one cent per pbund to be paid by the owner of the
meats. The act does not require the inspection of fresh meats from animals slaughtered within one hundred miles from the place in Virginia at
which such meats are offered for sale. Held, that the act is void, as being in restraint of commerce among the states, and as imposing a discrimi nating tax" upon the products and industries of some States in favor
of the products and industries of Virginia.
The owner of meats from animals slaughtered one hundred miles or over

