IN RE GRAHAM.
Statement of the Case.

In re GRAHAM, Petitioner.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIn.
No. 1332.

Argued January 29, "1891.-Decided March 2,1891.

Wen the highest court of a State holds that a judgment of one of its inferior courts, imposing punishment in a criminal case in excess of that
allowed by the statutes of tile State, is valid and binding to the extent to
which the law of the State authorized the punishment, and only void for
the excess, there is no principle of federal law invaded in such ruling.

THIs was a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Wisconsin
uo review a judgment of that court refusing to issue a writ of
]abeaq coi;pmz. for the discharge of the plaintiff in error, the
petitioner for.the writ.
A law of Wisconsin declared that "any person who shall
assault another and shall feloniously rob, steal or take from
his person any money or other property Which may be the
subject of larceny, such robber being armed'with a dangerous
weapon, with intent if resisted to kill or maim the person
robbed, or, being so armed, who shall wound or strike, the
person robbed, shall be punished by imprisonment in the state
prison not more than ten years nor less than three years..'
The. petitioner in the court below, John Graham, and one
Samuel McDonald, were charged with feloniously making an
assault upon one Aif. McDonald, putting him in bodily fear and
danger of life and feloniois...'*robbing him of two hundred
dollars in money, the parties being armed at the tilne with a
loaded revolver, and wounding and striking the said Alf. McDonald. In June, 1889, the parti s were tried i the Circuit
Court for Ashland County, -Wisicbnsin, and were convicted as
charged in the information, and were sentenced to confinement in the state prison at hard labor, one for the period of
thirteen years and the other for the period of fourteen years.
As the law only authorized .punishmiient by imprisonment not
exceeding ten years, and the parties were serving under a
sentence much longer than that period, they applied to the
court below for a writ of hab6as corpu,?, alleging that the
judgment was void as being in excess of the authority vested

OCTOBER TERMI; 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

in the court by ,which it was rendered. The court below held
that the judgment was not void in the sense of being an absolute nullity, but only erroneous, and that the remedy of the
parties was by a writ of error and not by a writ of habeas
corpus. I"n re Graham and In re McDonald, 74 Wisconsin,
450. The writ was therefore refused. Subsequently one of
the parties applied again to the Supreme Court of Wisconsin
for the writ, and it was again refused. To review this last
judgment the case was brought to this court.
.Mr. Rublee A. Cole began argument for the petitioner; but,
on the statement of the case, the court declined to hear further
argument.
. r. J. Z. O'Connor, Attorney General of the State of
Wisconsin, and Mr. Robert ff. a .Follette filed a brief in
opposition.
MR. JsroE

FIELD,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
It is undoubtedly the general rule that a judgment rendered
by a court in a criminal case must conform strictly to the
statute, and that any variation from its provisions, either in
the character or the _extent of punishment inflicted, renders
the judgment absolutely void; but it seems that under the
law of Wisconsin a judgment in a criminal case which merely
exceeds in the time of punishment prescribed by the sentence
that which is authorized by law, is not absolutely void, but
only er'roneous, and that the error must be corrected on appeal
and cannot be corrected by a writ of habeas corpus. It would
seem that a distinction is there made between those cases in
which the judgment is irregular, as being in excess of the time
prescribed, and those in which it is void as changing the
nature of the punishment from that authoriz, d by .he law;
and that in the formcL 6lass, until the time is reached which
is prescribed by statute as the limit of the power of the court
to punish the prisoner, he has no remedy by habeas corpus.
If such 'be the law of the State, as would appear by this
decision and the argument of counsel, we do not see that we

IN RE GRAHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

have any right to interfere. That the prisoner should not
have been sentenced for any time in excess of ten years, is
'very evident. When the ten years have expired it is probable
the court will order the prisoner's discharge, but until then be
has no right to ask the annulment of the entire judgment.
Such being the ruling of the State court, and there being
nothing in it repugnant to any principle of natural justice, we
think that the reason given for a refusal of the writ of habeas
orpus in the court below at the present time was a sound one.
Nor is the doctrine of the Wisconsin court peculiar to the
courts of that State. In New York it has been held that a
judgment in a criminal case, which in the punishment it imposed exceeded that prescribed by statute, was not void except
for the excess, where such excess could be omitted in the
execution of the judgment. Thus, in The People v. Baker,
89 N. Y. 460, 467, the relator was tried and convicted of a
crime for which he was sentenced to be imprisoned in the
penitentiary for one year, and to pay a fine of $500, and to
stand committed until the fine was paid. Contending that
the offence, of which he was convicted, was shown by the
minutes of the court to have been merely an assault and battery for which he could have been at most sentenced to be
imprisoned for one year and to-pay a fine of $250 only, he
applied to a judge of the Superior Court of Buffalo for a writ of
habeas cowpus to be discharged from imprisonment. Thakteourt
refused to discharge him, and the general term of t1g cdourt
having affirmed the ruling, the case was taken to the i, 1ourt of
Appeals of the State. In sustaining the decision that
court held that if the relator was only convicted of a simple
assault and battery he would not be entitled to his discharge,
for then the sentence to imprisonment for one year was authorized and legal, observing that this was a separate portion of
the sentence, complete in itself, and the remainder of the sentence could be held void and disregarded ;Iand that the whole
sentence was not illegal and void because of the excess' adding
that such was the settled law of the State.
But were the general doctrine of other States against that
held by the'bighet dort of Wiconsin, it i~mot perceived how

OCTOBER

TERAl 1890.

Syllabus.

we could interfere with the imprisonment of the plaintiff in
error. When the highest court of a State holds that a judgment of one of its inferior courts imposing punishment in a
criminal case is valid and binding to the extent in which the
law of the State authorized the punishment, and only void for
the excess, we cannot treat" it as wholly void, there being no
principle of federal law invaded in such ruling.
Judgment aflirmed.
CLAY v. FIELD.
FREEMAN v. CLAY.
FIELD v. CLAY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
Nos. 895, 1085, 1091. Submitted October 27, 1890.-Decided March 2, 1891.

The surviving partner in the management of a plantation in Tennessee
which belonged to the deceased partner, retained possession of it after
his partner's death, and of the slaves upon it, and continued to operate
the plantation in good faith, and for what he thought were the best
interests of the estate of the deceased as well as "his own. When the
war came, the plantation was in the theatre of the conflict, and at its
close the slaves became free. Beld, that, under the circumstances, the
surviving partner in a general settlement was not accountable for the
value of the slaves, but was accountable for the fair rental value of
the property, including that of the slaves while they were slaves.
An action for dower is not exempt from, or excepted out of, the act fixing
the jurisdictional amount necessary for an appeal to this court.
If several persons be joined in a suit in equity or admiralty, and have a
common and undivided interest, though separable as between themselves,
the amount of their joint claim or liability will be the test of jurisdiction;
but where their interests are distinct, and they are joined for the sake of
convenience only, and because they form a class of parties whose rights
or liabilities arose out of the same transaction, or have relation to a
common fund or mass of property dought to be administered, such
distinct demands or liabilities cannot be aggregated together for the
.purpose of giving this court jurisdiction by appeal, but each must stand
or fall by itself alone.
The words "received on settlement to this date," where there was a partnership account running through years, may refer to a settlement for
the year, or a settlement for tle whore period of the partnership; and
this ambiguity, being a latent one, may be explained by evidence aliunde.

