OCTOBER TERMI, 1890.
Syllabus.

TUBBS v. WILHOIT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIANo. 450. Submitted January 5, 1891.-Decided January 26, 1891.

The swamp land grant of September 28, 1850, to the several States was in
presenti,and upon identification of the lands thereunder in lawful mode,
title thereto related back to the date of the grant.
The identification originally prescribed by the action of the Secretary of the
Interior was changed as to such lands in California by the act of July
23, 1866, 14 Stat. 219, section four thereof prescribing new and addltional modes of identification.
That act provided, among other things, that (1) all lands represented as
swamp and overflowed on township plats, the surveys and plats of which
townships had been made under the authority of the United States and
approved, were to be certified to the State by the commissioncr of the
general land office within prescribed periods; and (2) existing State
segregation maps and surveys of such lands found by the United States
Surveyor General to conform to the existing system of the United
States were directed to be made the basis of township plats, to be thereafter constructed and approved by that officer, and forwarded to the
commissioner of the general land office for approval.
In 1864, United States subdivisional-survey of the township embracing the
land in controversy in this suit was made and approved by the United
States surveyor general, and a copy of the plat thereof, also approved by
him, was filed in the proper local land office. On such approved plat certain parts were colored green, and marked " swamp and overflowed
*land," and excluded from the estimated aggregate area of public lands
shown thereon, and were included in the estimated area of swamp and
overflowed land in that township. In August and September, 1864, under
authority of state law, one Kile applied to purchase the land in controversy from the State under the swamp land grant, secured the requisite
survey and the approval thereof by the State surveyor general; and in
August, 1865, having made full payment to the State received the State's
patent therefor. Held, that the title of the State was confirmed by the
act of 1866, by the return of the land as swamp and overflowed on the
survey of the United States and the township plat, approved by the United
States surveyor general and filed in the local land office in 1864.
Prior to executive instructions of April 17, 1879, the commissioner's approval of the public surveys and plats was not required before filing
thereof in the local offices of sale by the United States surveyor general,
and on such filing the land became subject to sale, selection and disposal.
Power to correct fraud or error therein existed in the commissioner, but
where the survey and plat were correct they became final and effective
when approved and filed in the local land office by the surveyor general.

TUBBS v. WILHOIT.
Opinion of the Court.
Temporary withdrawal of the township plat prior to the passage of the act
of 1866, did not defeat confirmation prescribed by that act in the present
case, a certified copy of such plat having been substituted in its place
and the survey thereof never having been disapproved nor changed otherwise than by the erasure of the words "swamp and overflowed" as to
this and other tracts and the substitution on the plat of the words "public lands," under direction of the commissioner of the general land
office given after his control over the matter had ceased. Official acceptance of the survey by the commissioner may be inferred from its adoption in making sales and issuing patents, if such approval be in fact
necessary.
The homestead entry of plaintiff in error made subsequent to the making of
the survey and filing of such township plat thereof in the local office, and
subsequent to the state segregation survey, sale and patent of the land
to Kile, and subsequent to the confirmatory act of 1866, was ineffectual
against the right acquired by the State and its patentee.
Alleged inadvertence of the state court in entering judgment below for
defendant for rents and profits cannot be reviewed here. Any inadvertence of the kind is only matter for consideration by the court below.

THIS was an action for the possession of land.
questions are stated in the opinion.
-Y.

The federal

Henry Beard for plaintiff ir. error.

X7fr. A. T. Britton and .Mr. A. B. Browne for defendants
in error.
M . JUSTICE FIELD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an actioh" for the possession of a parcel of land of
about eighty acres in the county of San Joaquin, California,
being substantially the south half of the southeast quarter of
section 11, in township 4, of that county.
The plaintiff in the court below, and in error here, asserted
title to the premises under a patent of the United States issued
to him in due form on the first of October, 1879, upon a homestead entry made by him in May, 1873, and commuted to a
cash entry in November following.
The orional defendant below, Joseph Kile, now deceased,
and in w-K'oih place his executors Wilhoit and Thompson have
been substituted, claimed the premises-under a patent of Call-

OCTOBER TERM, i890.
Opinion of the Court.

•fornia, bearing date the 5th of August, 1865, conveying to him
-the premises as swamp and overflowed lands, and as part of
the land granted to the State by the act of Congress of Sep-,
tember 28, 1850. 9 Stat. 519, c. 84.
The action was brought in the Superior Court of the county
of San Joaquin, where the issue was tried without the intervention of a jury, by stipulation of the parties. Special findings of fact were filed, upon which judgment for the plaintiff
was rendered. On appeal to the Supreme Court'of the State
the judgment was reversed, and judgment ordered in favor of
the defendants for the lands, and for the rents and profits
thereof. To review this judgment the case is brought here
on a writ of error. The question presented is the validity of
this title under the patent of California. If the claim thereto
was abandoned or overthrown, the right of the plaintiff to
recover under the patent of the United States would be conceded.
To determine this question, a consideration must be had
of the various proceedings taken to obtain the patent of the
State, and the law bearing upon them. The act of Congress
of September 28, 1850, granted to the several States of the
Union all the swamp and overflowed lands within their limits,
which, on the passage of the act, remained unsold, to enable
them to construct the necessary levees and -drains for the
reclamation df such lands; and made it the duty of the Secretary of the Interior, as soon as practicable, to make out an
accurate list and plats of the lands described, and transmit the
same to the governors of the States, and upon their request to
cause patents to be issued to the States therefor.
Soon after the passage of the act the question arose in each
State as to the time the grant took effect- whether at the
date of the act, or on the issue of the patent to the State upon
the request of its governor after the list and plats of the lands
had been made out by the Secretary of the Interior and transmitted to him. After much consideration by the officers of
the department of the government under whose supervision
the act was to be carried out, and by the courts of the several
States in which such lands existed, it was held that the words

TUBBS

v. WILROTT.

Opinion of the Court.

"are hereby granted" in the act imported a present grait,
and not a promise of one in the future ; and that the title to
the lands, therefore, passed to the State at once, their identification to be made by the action of the Secretary of the Interior, but when identified the title to relate back to the date
of the act.
In the recent case of Tfright v. -Roseberry,121 U. S. 488,
the rulings of the officers of the Land Department, and of the
courts of the States in which swamp and overflowed lands
existed, by which the conclusion mentioned was reached, are
stated with much fulness, and it is unnecessary to repeat
what is there said. It is sufficient to observe that the construction thus given to the act is now the accepted law of the
country.
But the enjoyment of the grant was greatly impeded by
the delay of the Interior Department to make out and certify
the lists required. This delay arose from many causes, some
of which the secretary could not control, such as the insufficiency of the force under his command to make the required
surveys and the necessary identification of the lands. The
decision of this court in .1-ailroad Co. v. Smith, 9 Wall. 95,
tended in some degree to lessen the evil effects of the delay, in
holding that when that officer had neglected or failed to make
the identification, it was competent for the grantees of the
State, in order to prevent their rights from being defeated, to
identify the lands in any other appropriate mode which would
effect that object. And. in fWright v. Rosebery it was suggested that such mode of identification by the State was aso
permissible where the secretary declared his inability to certify the lands from any other cause than a consideration of
their character- a suggestion followed in the decision of that
case.
In consequence of the delays in certifying the lists and the
inconveniences which followed, the legislatures of several
States, in which such lands existed, undertook to identify the
lands and dispose of them, and for that purpose passed various
acts for their survey and sale and the issue of patents to purchasers. The conflicts 'whidh thus arose between parties

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

claiming under the State and parties claiming directly from
the United States led to various acts of Congress for the relief
of purchasers and locators of swamp and overflowed lands.
Act of March 2, .1855, 10 Stat. 634, c. 147; Act of March 3,
1857, 11 Stat. 251, c. 117.
The inconvenience and conflicts mentioned were especially
annoying and injurious to the State of California, for the
great emigration to that State in 1850, and the years immediately following, created a call for lands of this description, not
only because they were easily reclaimed, but because of their
extraordinary fertility after reclamation. Accordingly, as
early as 1855 its legislature, asserting her ownership of such
lands, provided for their survey and sale, and for the issue of
patents. Legislation was also had on that subject in 1857,
1858 and 1859. As great confusion had, from the causes mentioned, arisen in the title to such lands, and also to other lands
in California claimed .under grants of the United States, Congress, on July 23, 1866, passed. an act, entitled "An Act to
quiet Land Titles in California," 14 Stat. 218, c. 219, by which,
among other things, the provisions of the original act of 1850
for the identification of swamp and overflowed lands in that
State were changed. Their identification was no longer left
to the Secretary of the Interior, but was made subject to the
joint action of the state and the federal authorities. The
fourth section, which related to those lands, provided as
follows :
"That in all cases where township surveys have been, or,
shall hereafter be made under authority of the United States,
and the plats thereof approved, it shall be the duty of the
commissioner of the general land office to certify over to the
State of California, as swamp and overflowed, all the lands
represented as such, upon such approved plats, within one year
from the passage of this act, or within one year from the
return and approval of such township plats. The commissioner shall direct the United States surveyor general for the
State of California to examine the segregation maps and surveys of the swamp and overflowea lands made by said State;
and where he shall find them to conform to the system of sur-

TUBBS v. WILEOIT.
Opinion of the Court.

veys adopted by the United States, he shall construct and
approve township plats accordingly, and forward to the general land office for approval: Provided, That in segregating
large bodies of land, notoriously and obviously swamp and.
overflowed, it shall not be necessary to subdivide the same,
but to run the exterior lines of such body of land. In case
such State surveys are found not to be in accordance with the
system of United States surveys, and in such other townships
as no survey has been made by theUnited States, the commissioner shall direct the surveyor general to make segregation
surveys, upon application to said surveyor general by the governor of said State, within one year of such application, of all
the swamp and overflowed land in such townships, and to
report thesame to the general land office, representing and
describing what land was swamp and overflowed under the
grant, according to IM best evidence he can obtain. If the
authorities of said State shall claim as swamp and overflowed
any land not represented as such upon the map or in the
returns of the surveyors, the character of such land at the
date of the grant, September twenty-eight, eighteen hundred
and fifty, and the right to the same, shall be determined by
testimony, to be taken before the surveyor general, who shall
decide the same, subject to the approval of the commissioner
of the general land office." 14 Stat. 219, c. 219, sec. 4.
By this section, rules or methods were established for the
identification of swamp and overflowed lands in California
which superseded all previous rules or methods for that purpose. It first enacted, that, in all cases where township
surveys had been or should thereafter be made under the
authority of the United States, and the plats thereof be
approved, it should be the duty of the commissioner of the
general land office to certify over to the State, as swamp
and overflowed, all the lands represented as such upon the
approved plats, within one year from the passage of the act,
or within one year from the return and approval of such
township plats.
The section then provided for the construction of township
plats where none previously existed. It required the com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

missioner of the general land office to direct the United
States surveyor general for California to examine the segregation maps and surveys of the swamp and overflowed lands
made by the State, and directed that when he should find
them to be in conformity with the system of surveys adopted
by the United States he should construct and approve township plats accordingly and forward them to the general' land
office for approval. But in case such surveys should be found
not in *accordance with the system of United States surveys,
and in other townships where no survey had been made by
the United States, the commissioner was required to direct the
surveyor general to make segregation surveys, upon application
of the governor of the State, within one year, of all the swamp
and overflowea lands in the township, and reliort the same to
the general land office, representing and describing what land
was swamp and overflowed according to the best evidence he
could obtain. The section further provided that if the State
should claim as swamp and overflowed any land not so represented upon such map or"in the returns of the surveyors, then
the character of such land at the date of the grant, and the
right of the State thereto, were to be determined by testimony
to be taken before the surveyor general, subject to the approval
of the commissioner of the general land office.
With this brief review of the act of September 28, 1850, and
of the fourth section of the act of July 23, 1866, we proceed
,to state what was done by the original defendant, Joseph Kile,
to secure the title of the State. In April, 1864, the United
States subdivisional survey of township 4 north, of range 5
east, of Mt. Diablo meridian, in the county of San Joaquin,
was made, and the field and descriptive notes, together with
the map or plat of the survey, were examined and approved,
and the approval certified by the United States surveyor general for California. On the first of July following (1864) a
copy of this examined and approved map or plat was filed in
the United States district land office at Stockton, California,
Which district included the lands of that township, and a copy
was returned to the general land office of the United States at
Washington. The certificate of approval by the United States

TUBBS v. WILHOIT.
Opinion of the Court.

surveyor of the plat of the survey, written upon its margin,
was as follows:
"The above map of township No. 4 north, range No. 5 east,
Mount Diablo meridian, is strictly conformable to the fieldnotes of the survey thereof on file in this office, which have
been examined and approved. Surveyor General's Qffice, San
Francisco, California, June 30, 1864.
"L. Ursox, Surv. Gen. Cal."
Upon this approved map or plat the greater -part of the
lands of the township, including all of section 11, was colored
green, and upon the face of the part thus colored the words
"swamp and overflbwed land" were written. The lands thus
colored and marked were excluded from the estimated aggregate area of public lands and included in the estimated aggregate area of swamp and overflowed land.
In August, 1864, Kile made application in acoordance with
the provisions of the acts of the legislature of California .to
purchase from the State the southeast quarter of section
eleven, as being part of the swamp and overflowed lands
granted by the act of Congress; and, on the 18th of that
month, the county surveyor of the county of San Joaquin made
a survey and recorded in his office a plat and field-notes thereof,
and certified and reported the same to the state surveyor general, in whose office they were filed and recorded on the 30t1
of September following. On that day, and after the state
surveyor general had approved the survey, plat and field-notes,
the State of California issued and delivered to Kile a certificate
of purchase of the southeast quarter of section eleven, founded
upon his. application and the approved survey. The certificate
set forth that Kile had made part payment of the purchaseprice and was the purchaser of the land, and that on making
full payment and surrendering the certificate he should receive
a patent from the State.
On the 5th of August, 1865, Kile, having paid the residue
of the purchase-money and surrendered the certificate, received
from the State a patent fortheJand. The patent recites that

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

all the requirements of the act of Congress, as well as of the,
acts of the legislature of the State in' relation to swamp and
overflowed lands, had been complied with, and that the governor, by virtue of the authority vested in him, thereby bargained,
sold, and conveyed to Kile the lands with the appurtenances.
These proceedings having been taken, and the patent issued,
the first clause of section four of the act of Congress of July
23, 1866, operated to confirm the title of the patentee. That
clause, as already stated, provided that in all cases where
township surveys had been made, or should -afterwards be
made, under the authority of the United States and the plats
thereof approved,it should be the duty of the commissioner
of the general land office to certify over to the State, as swamp
and overflowed, all the lands represented as such upon 'the
approved plats, within one year from the passage of the act,
or within one year from the return and approval of such
township plats. The only objection urged against the operation of this provision is that the township plat was not in terms
approved by the commissioner of the general land office. The
clause mentioned requires no such approval of township plats
which had then been made and approved by the surveyor
general of the United States for California. The township
surveys were made under the authority of the United States,
and the plat thereof was approved by that authority, when
they were made and approved by that officer. Only such
township plats were to be submitted to the approval of the
commissioner as should be subsequently made by that officer
from the segregation maps and surveys of swamp and overflowed lands of the State after he had found the surveys to
be in conformity with the system of surveys adopted by the
United States; and such township plats as should be made by
him when the segregation maps and surveys of the State were
not in accordance with the United States system of surveys, or
were of townships where no surveys at all had been made. Until
April 17,1879, it had not been the practice of the Land Department to require any specific approval by the commissioner,
either of surveys of the public lands or of plats of townships
in accordance therewith, made by the surveyor general of the

TUBBS v. WILHOIT.
Opinion of the Court.

State, before they were deemed so far final as to sanction sales
or selections of the lands surveyed and platted. It is true
that wherever fraud or error existed in the action of the
United States surveyor general for the State, the, power of
correction was vested in the commissioner, but where the
survey was itself cbrrect, and the township plat conformed
thereto, they became final and effective when filed in the local
land office by that officer.
In speaking of the laws and of the practice of the department on this subject, the late Secretary of the Interior, iMr.
Schurz, in a communication to the commissioner of the general
land office, under date of August 7, 1877, said:
"By the act of Congress, approved May 1, 1796, (1 Stat.
464,) ' providing for the sale of the lands of the United States
in the territory northwest of the river Ohio and above the
mouth of the Kentucky River,' th6 surveyor general was
authorized to prepare plats of the townships surveyed, to keep
one copy of the same in his office for public information, and
to send other copies to the ' places of sale,' and to the Secretary of the Treasury. The present local land offices are equivalent to the ' places of sale ' mentioned in the act of 1796; and,
-as a matter of practice, from that date to the present time the
township plats prepared by the surveyor general have been
filed by him-with the local officers, who thereupon proceeded
to dispose of the public lands according to the laws of the
United States. There is nothing in the act of 1796, or in the
subsequent acts, which requires the approval of the commissioner of the general land office before said survey becomes
final and the plats authoritative. Such a theory is not only
contrary to the letter and spirit of the various acts providing
for the survey of the public lands, but is contrary to the uniform practice of this department. There can be no doubt but
that under the act of July 4, 1836, reorganizing the general
land office, the commissioner has general supervision over
all surveys, and that authority is exercised whenever error or
fraud is .alleged on the part of the surveyor general. But
when the survey is correct, it becomes final and effective when
the plat is filed in the local office by that officer."

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

This view of the secretary was referred to and held to be
correct in Fra8kher v. O'Connor, 115 U. S. 102, 114. This
practice was changed by the Land Department in April, 1879,
and communicated in its instructions to surveyors general on
the 117th of that month. It was'not until after such instructions that the duplicate plats filed in the local land offices
were required to be previously approved by the commissioner
of the general land office.
-There is no finding, nor even any allegation, that the survey
and plat of township four, in the county of San Joaquin, were
not correct, or that they were disapproved by the Land Department. The only change made upon that plat consisted
in an erasure of the designation that some of the lands were
swamp and overflowed,' and the substitution of a designation
of them as public lands, the department having come to a
different conclusion from that returned by the surveyor general years before, such conclusion being reached upon an
inquiry made long after the department had ceased to have
any control over the matter. The notes of the survey and the
plat of the township remained precisely as they were when.
filed in the local land office on the 1st of July, 1864. But if
an approval of the township plat by the commissioner of the
general land office was necessary, it is to be found in the
recognition of its correctness by the subsequent action of
the commissioner. In Wright v. Rosebe-My there was no
approval of the township plat in terms, but it was held to be
an approved plat by the fact that it was officially used as such.
121 U. S. 516, 51.7.
In this case the original and official township plat was prepared by the surveyor general in triplicate; one of which was
returned to the general land office of the United States, where
it always remained, and one was filed in the local land office at
Stockton. It is true that the latter one was afterwards, in
1865, withdrawn by the surveyor general from the local land
office by order of the commissioner, and was not returned and
filed in that office; but a copy of the plat which had been
returned to the general land office, certified by the commissioner, and also by the surveyor general of California, _as a

TUBBS v. WILHOIT.
Opinion of the Court.

correct copy of the plat on file in that office, was subsequently
filed in the local land office at Stockton. It does not appear
in terms by whose order this subsequent filing was had, but it
must be presumed to have been by direction of the commissioner of the general land office. It is not to be presumed that
the parties in charge of the local land office would have allowed
a copy of the township plat, which had been taken from its
files by order of the commissioner, to be refiled without the authority of that officer. Besides, to that plat thus returned the
commissioner referred when he directed the register of the land
office at Stockton to make a change of the words "swamp or
overflowed lands" written upon it to the words "public
lands." And subsequently when a patent of the United States
for the land was issued to the plaintiff Tubbs the land was
described as embracing eighty acres "according to the official
plat of the survey of the same lands returned to the general
land office by the surveyor general." The one thus returned
was a duplicate of the one originally filed in the local land
office.
It is, therefore, conclusively established .that such township
plat was recognized by the Land Department at Washington
as a correct plat, and used as such, which was the only approval of a similar plat in Wright v. Roseberry. This conclusion is strengthened by the fact that when subsequently the
State authorities applied to the commissioner of the general
land office to certify over to the State the lands represented
upon the plat as swamp and overflowed the application was
refused, not on the ground of any supposed error in such plat,
but solely for the reason that the Land Department bad
already divested itself of authority by the issue of a patent to
the plaintiff. If there had been any error in the plat which
would have justified the action of the department, it would
undoubtedly have been stated. When the plaintiff was allowed to make a homestead entry all control over the land
had passed from the Land Department, and the title by virtue
of proceedings under the state law had been confirmed by the
act of Congress of July 23, 1866, and become vested in the
defendant. That entry was not made until the 8th of May,
VOL. CXXXV i-IO

OCTOBER TER3,

1869,

Syllabus.

1873, several years after the official map of the township had
been filed in the local land office at Stockton and in the general land office at Washington, and the issue of a patent by
the State of California to the defendant Kile, and the passage
of the act of Congress. Whether the township plat be considered as approved by the action of the surveyor general or
by the subsequent recognition of its correctness by the commissioner of the general land office, when approved, the
duty of the commissioner to certify over to the State the
lands represented thereon as swamp and overflowed was
purely ministerial. He could not defeat the title of the State
by withholding such certificate, nor could he add to the title
by giving it. Its only effect would have been to facilitate the
proof of the vesting of the title in the State by its additional
recognition of the land as that covered by the congressional
grant of 1850. It would not have added to the completeness
of the title. A strange thing it would b- if the refusal of an
officer of the government to discharge a ministerial duty could
defeat a title granted by an act of Congress, and enable him
to transfer it to parties not within the contemplation of the
government. The judgment of the court below must, therefore, be affirmed.
As to the alleged inadvertence in the entry of judgment in
favor of the defendant for rents and profits, we have only to
say that if there be any such inadvertence, it is not a matter
for revision by this court, but only for consideration by the
court below.
Judgment afflrmed.

WIITEHEAD v. SHATTUCK.
APPEAT

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UIITED

STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 128. Argued and submitted January 6,1891. - Decided January 26,1891.

The bill alleged that the plaintiff was the owner in fee of the premises, but
held the title as trustee; that notwithstanding his ownership of the
property and his right to its immediate possession and enjoyment, the

