BARNEY v. OELRICHS.
Opinion of the Court.

BARNEY v. OELRICHS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THF UNITED STATES FOR THR
SOUTHERN

DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 177. Argued January 30. 1891.-Decided March 2,1891.

The residence out of the State of New Yoirk which operated to suspend the
running of the statute of limitations under section 100 of the Code of
Civil Procedure. of 1849, as originally framed, was a fixed abode, entered
upon with the intention to remain permanently, at least for a time, for
business or other purposes.

T.E case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney GeneralIfauryfor plaintiff in error.
.Mr. Frederic D. Mtclfnney for defendants in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action brought against Hiram Barney to
recover back money alleged to 'aave been illegally exacted by
him when collector of the port of New York, as duty on certain charges and commissions, and as fees for services rendered
in the custom-house in connection with merchandise imported,
and was commenced in the Superior Court of New York City
by service of summons, dated March 27, 1868, on the defendant, April 16, 1868, and subsequently removed into the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of NewYork.
The declaration consisted of the common counts, and, in
addition to the general issue, defendant pleaded that the supposed several causes of action did not any of them accrue at
any time within six years next before the commencement of
the suit; to which the plaintiffs replied that, after the several
causes of action had accrued, "defendant departed from and
resided out of this State for several successive periods, amounting in the aggregate to twelve months, and this suit was
brought within six years and twelve months after the said
VOL. c.xxvn-34

OCTOBER TER-M, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

several causes of action, and each and every one thereof
accrued to these plaintiffs;" and defendant rejoined that,
"before the commencement of this suit, he, the said defendant, did not depart from and reside out of this State for several successive periods, amounting in the aggregate to twelve
months, in manner and form, etc.," concluding to the country.
As this and many other similar causes involved, as respected
duties alleged to have been illegally exacted upon charges and
commissions, the examination of long accounts, of numerous
invoices, entries, and other documents and papers, and the
taking of the testimony of various witnesses touching the
same, the several causes were sent by the court, without objection, to a referee, who took evidence and reported thereon,
and whose report in this case was considered upon exceptions,
and the conclusions reached by him made the basis of instructions to the jury upon the trial, which took place January 18,
1886. As to the fees, the jury were instructed to find for the
plaintiffs in the amount of $289.12, being $113.60 principal;
and $175.52 interest; and as to the duties overpaid, in the
amount of $1076.74, being $406.85 principal, and $669.8-9 interest; and a verdict was returned accordingly, ma] inoywith
some further interest and costs, a total of $1586.14 for which
sum judgment was rendered.
The case having been brought to this court, counsel !or
plaintiff in error asks for a reversal upon the ground tha, the
Circuit Court erred in its ruling upon the statute of limitations, and as the argument was addressed to that point alone,
our consideration of the record will take no wider scope.
The causes of action declared on accrued prior to the act of
June 30, 1864, (13 Stat. 214, c. 171, ยง 14,) prescribing the time
within which actions against collectors might be brought, and
while the act of February 26, 1845, (5 Stat. 727, c. 22,) was in
force, which preserved to parties paying duties under protest
the right to maintain actions at law to test the validity of
such duties. 'Whatever limitation existed was to be foundrin
the State law, and in this instance, in sections 91 and 100 of
the Code of Procedure of April 11, 1849, c. 438, of the statutes
of New Tork. By section 91 the limitation of six years was

BARNIEY v. OELRICHS.
Opinion of the Court.

applied to "an action upon a contract, obligation or liability,
express or implied, excepting those mentioned in section 90,"
exceptions not material here. Section 100 was as follows:
"If, when the cause of action shall accrue against any person,
he shall be out of the State, such action may be commenced
within the terms herein respectively limited after the return
of such person into this State; and if, after such cause of
action-shall have accrued, such person shall depart from and
reside out of this State, the time of his absence shall not be
deemed or taken as any part of the time limited for the
commencement of such action."
Included in the amount claimed for overpaid duties, and in
the verdict and judgment, were certain items for payments
made more than six years prior to the commencement of this
suit. To sustain the contention that these items were not
barred, plaintiffs put in evidence a letter of the defendant
stating that during the seven years from April, 1861, to April,
1868, his absences from the city of New York were all teinporary, and, though frequent, were for short periods, varying
from one day to perhaps forty or fifty days; that there were
probably only two or three as long as forty days, and not
more than one as long as fifty days; that they consisted mainly
of brief visits to Washington during the first four years, and
visits to Iowa and Wisconsin and the South during the following years; and that he estimated that they averaged two
months a year. Some evidence of failure in attempting to
serve process was also adduced. Mr. Barney testified on his
own behalf that he had resided in the State of New York
nearly fifty, and in the city nearly forty, years, including from
1861 to 1870 inclusive, during which time he did not reside at
any other place than Kingsbridge, now in the city, and never
voted elsewhere than in the city except from 18412 to 1852,
when he lived in Brooklyn; that he had always had an office
in the city of New York; that his absences from the State
were never with the intention of remaining away, except for
the temporary purposes of pleasure or business; and that there
was one absence in Iowa and Wisconsin on business which he
thought was over fifty but less than ninety days.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

The court held as matter of law that all the absences referred to should be accumulated and not taken as a part of the
period of limitation, which being done, the statutory bar was
not made out. The question is whether, under section 100,
defendant was properly held to have departed from and
resided out of the State of New York during these absences.
If in the administration of his office he were called to Washington for twenty-four or forty-eight hours, or if he visited
some seaside or mountain resort not in New York for a few
days' recreation, or if business demanded his attention temporarily in other States, did defendant reside out of the State
of New York within the intent and meaning of the statute ?
We do not think he did, and that the words "to reside out of
the State" meant the taking up of an actual abode or dwelling
place elsewhere, and not a mere temporary sojourn for transient purposes.
The inquiry is as to the meaning of the words as used: If
"residence" were always synonymous with "domicil," or even
with "inhabitancy," there woiuld seem to be no room for contention; but if the language here was intended to express
something less than domicil or inhabitancy, then the proper
definition must be arrived at in view of that intention and the
subject matter to which the words were applied, and we are
of opinion that "to reside out of the State" comprehended
something more than alighting at a place in travel or in pursuit of temporary objects, and such we understand to be the
result of decision by the courts of New York.
In Pmfnweld v. Chesampeake-&c. Railroad, 134 U. S. 351, we
'had occasion to consider when a person might be properly
held to be a resident of the State of New York and entitled
to bring an action which would have otherwise been barred
by the laws of the defendant's residence, and this involved an
-examination of the decisions in that State in the construction
of the words "resident" and "residence," as contained in its
statutes. The cases of In re Thompson, 1 Wend. 43 ; Frost v.
Brisbin, 19 Wend. 11; Haggartv. Morgan, 1 Selden (5 N. Y.)
422; and TWeitkamp v. Toehr, 53 N. Y. Superior Ct. 79, were
cited and qk-oted from as showing that within the meaning of

BARNEY v. OELRIOHS.

5337

Opinion of the Court.

the statutes regulating attachments against the property of
debtors, and arrest on civil process for debts, it Was the actual
residence of the defendant and not his domicil that determined
the rights of the parties; while Burroughs v. Bloomer, 5
Denio, 532; Ford v. Babcoce, 2 Sandf. (N. Y.) 518; Cole v. Je8-,
sup, 10 N. Y. 96 ; 8atterthwaitev. Abercrornbie,,23 Blatchford,
308; and En gel v. Fishei',102 N. Y. 400, were referred to as
sustaining the conclusion that a like construction had been
given to the words in that clause of ,the statute of limitations
which provided that if, after the cause of action shall fiave
accrued, the defendant. shall "depart from and reside out of
this State, the time of his absence" shall not. be included in
the period of limitation. And because it did not appear in
the case that the plaintiff had taken up an actual residence
in the State of New York, it was held that he could not avail
himself of the statutes of that State in ordet to recover.
In lfrigley8s Case, 4 Wend. 602; 8 Wend. 134-, it was decided
that a person whose legal domicil was England, but who had
done business in New York for some years, then returned to
England, and again to New York, remaining for a time, with
the intention of settling in Canada, was not an inhabitant or
resident within the meaning of the New York insolvent act
of 1813, and in the Court of Errors, Chancellor Walworth
remarked: "Inhabitancy and residence do not mean precisely
the same thing as domicil, when the latter term is applied to
succession to personal estate, but they mean a fixed and permanent abode or dwelling place for the time being, as contradistinguished from a mere terfporary locality of existence."
Mr. Justice Nelson, then Chief Justice of New York, delivering the opinion of the court in Frost v. Brisbin, 19 Wend. 11,
said that the word "inhabitant" implies a more fixed and
permanent abode than the word "resident," and "frequently
imports many privileges and duties which a mere resident cannot claim or be subject to," and that "the transient visit of a
person for a time at a place, does not make him a. resident
while there; that something more is necessary to entitle him
to that character. There must be a ,settled, fixed abode, an
intention to remain permanently at least for a time, for busi-

. 531:

5 OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

ness or other purposes, to constitute a residence within the
legal meaning bf that term." The settled rule that a person may be a resident in one State and have his domicil in
another was recognized, and the decision has been often cited
with approval by the courts of New York as well as of many
other States.
In.Bartlettv. The -Mayor c., 5 Sandf. (N. Y.) 44, the plaintiff
sought an injunction against the collection of certain taxes on
personal property for which he had been assessed in the city
of New York, on the allegation that he resided in Westchester
County, which was refused, on the ground that, while plaintiff's
home was in Westchester County, his residence for a portion
of the year was in the city of New York. -Frostv. Brisbin
was relied on, and the definition of "residence" in Webster's
dictionary adopted, namely, "the dwelling in a place for some
continuance of time." So in .Douglas v. .Mayor cdc., 2 Duer,
110, Douglas was held to be a resident of the city of New
York and liable to be taxed as such, although his domicil was
in Flushing. These cases were favorably commented on in
Bell v. Pierce, 51 N. Y. 12, in support of a similar conclusion.
As to the statute of limitations, it will have been observed
that there were two exceptions to its operation: (1) Where
the debtor was absent from the State when the cause of action
accrued: (2) Where the debtor, after the cause of action had
accrued, departed from and resided out of the State. Under
the first exception, absence was sufficient to avert the bar,
because the statute did not commence to run until the return
of the debtor into the State, and such return it was decided
must be open and notorious, so that a creditor might with
reasonable diligence find his debtor and serve him with process. Engel v. Fischer, 102 N. Y. 400. But to bring a case
within the second exception something more than absence
was essential to be shown. In IVheeler v. Iebster, 1 E. D.
Smith, 1, Judge Tugraham, speaking for the New York Court
of Common Pleas, (then composed of Ingraham, Daly and
Wodruff, JJ.,) said that "it was necessary to prove that the
debtor departed from the State, and also that he resided out
of the State. The evidence did not tend to show this. For

BARNEY v. OELRICHS.
Opinion of the Court.

aught that is in proof before us, the absence may have been
merely temporary; excursions for pleasure or business, with a
return to this State as the residence of the debtor.

The plaintiff should have proven that the defendant was a
resident of some other place than the State of New York, or
should have shown a residence for some time elsewhere." In
Harden v. Palmer, 2 E. D. Smith, 172, it appeared in an
action for goods sold, to which the statute was pleaded, that
the defendant had been absent in Europe after the sale, at one
time for eight months and at another for two months, which
absences, if deducted in the computation of time, brought the
commencement of the suit within six years; but there was no
evidence that the debtor had any domicil in the State, and
the Common Pleas (composed of the same judges) held that
the absences were properly deducted by the trial court. The
opinion of Judge Daly inclined to the view that absence,
whether permanent or temporary, might be equivalent to
residing out of the State; but Judge Woodruff, in a separate
opinion, put the decision on the ground that there was no
evidence that the defendant had any domicil in the State, and
"if not, he, of course, resided out of the State when he went
to Europe," and, therefore, the periods of absence were properly excluded. In Burroughs v. Bloomer, 5 Denio, 532, 535,
the court say: "The expressions, 'and reside out of the State'
and 'the time of his absence,' have the same meaning; they
are correlative expressions. So that while the defendant in
this case resided out of, he was absent from the State." But
this was said in respect of the contention that a person who
bad resided in New York and had moved to and was actually
residing in New Jersey, had resumed his residence in New
York because he visited and transacted business there. Although the cause of action accrued before the defendant
removed to New Jersey, the distinction between the return
into the State referred to in the first clause of the section, and
departures and returns under the second clause, is carefully
pointed out. Under the former, when standing alone, the
time commenced running on the first return and continued to
run without reduction; and hence the latter was introduced

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

by way of amendment, in order that rem6val and residence
abroad after the statute commenced to run might suspend its
operation during the continuance of an absence or absences so
occasioned. But mere presence was not tantamount to residence under the statute, nor mere absence equivalent to residence elsewhere. And the occasional absences of a resident of
the State continuing to reside therein were not to be deducted
in computing the statutory term. Ford v. Babcock, 2 Sandf.
(N. Y.) 518, 529.
Apparently, because this was obviously so, the legislature of
New York, by an act passed April 25, 1867, (Laws N. Y. i867,
p. 1921,) amended section 100 by adding after the words "and
reside out of this State" the following, "or remain continuously absent therefrom for the space of one year or more."
Absence for the time specified was thus provided to be deducted from the time limited for the commencement of actions,
so that, whether the defendant resided out of the State or not,
such absence would suspend the running of the statute.
We hold that the residence out of the State which operated
to suspend the running of the statute under section 100 as
originally framed, was a fixed abode entered upon with the
intention to remain permanently, at least for a time, for business or other purposes, and as there was no evidence tending
to establish such a state of fact here, the judgment must be
reversed. The same conclusion has been reached in effect by
many of the state courts, and reference to decisions in Massachusetts, Maine, Vermont and New Hampshire will be found
in the well-considered opinion of the Supreme Court of Illinois in Pells v. Shell, 130 Illinois, 379, where the terms of the
statute were nearly identical with those of that of New York,
and the court approved the definition of "residence" as given
in Matter pf TFrigley, 8 Wend. 134; Frodt v. Brisbin, 19
Wend. 11; and Boardman v. House, 18 Wend. 512.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded, with
instruottons to proceed in conformity with this.opinion.

