UNITED STATES MORTGAGE 00. v. SPERRY.

313

Syllabus.

IMTED STATES M1ORTGAGE COOMPANY v. SPERRY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 22. Argued January 31, February 3, 1890. -Decided

February 2, 1891.

The power of a guardian, under the statute of Illinois relating to guardians
and wards, approved April 10, 1872, (Rev. Stats. Illinois, 1874, c. 64), to
mortgage the real estate of the ward is subject to these express restrictions: (1) that he obtain the leave of the county court, based upon
petition setting out the condition of the estate, the facts and circumstances on which the petition is founded, and a description of the premises to be mortgaged; (2) that the mortgage, if not in fee, must be for
a term of years not extending beyond the minority of the ward; and
(3) that the time of the maturity of the indebtedness secured by it
should not extend beyond the minority of the ward. It is, also, subject
to the implied restriction, controlling the discretion and power both of
the guardian and the county court, that the indebtedness secured by the
mortgage must arise out of, and have some necessary or appropriate
connection with, the management of the ward's estate.
Mortgages executed in 1872, 1873 and 1876, by a guardian in Illinois, with
the leave of the county court, to secure the payment of bonds given by
him for moneys borrowed to pay off existing encumbrances upon the
ward's real property and to improve such property by replacing thereon
buildings that had been destroyed by fire, are sustained as not invalid
under the above statute.
Such mortgages were no6 invalid because authorizing an absolute sale, and
not expressly recognizing the right of redemption after sale; for such
right of redemption exists, by statute, as a rule of property, whether
recognized or not in the mortgage.
The United States Mortgage Company, a corporation of New York, being
authorized by its charter to lend money on bond and mortgage on real
estate situated within the United States, or upon any hypothecation of
such real estate, or upon hypothecation of bond* or mortgages on such
real estate, for any period of credit, could contract in Illinois to lend
money there upon bond and mortgage of real estate, at nine per cent per
annum, (which the law of that state permitted,) although the highest
rate of interest permitted by the general laws of New York was seven
per cent, and although the special charter of the company provided that
no loan or advance of money should be made by it "at a rate of interest
exceeding the legal rate."
In Illinois, overdue coupons, so drawn as to be negotiable securities according to the general commercial law, bear interest after maturity at the
rate of six per cent per annum. But an interest warrant signed by a guar-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.
dian, who has contracted to be exempt from personal liability for the
principal debt, or for the interest thereon, practically payable out of
particular funds, are not a security of that class, and do not bear interest
after maturity.
Where a certain sum of money is due, and the creditor enters into arrangements with his debtor to take a less sum, provided that sum is secured
in a certain way and paid at a certain day, but if any of the stipulations
of the arrangement are not performed as agreed upon the creditor is to
be entitled to recover the whole of the original debt, such remitter to his
original rights does not constitute a penalty, and equity will not interfere
to prevent its observance.
A guardian having obtained leave of the County Court to borrow the sum
of $95,000 and mortgage the ward's estate to secure its payment, allowed
the mortgagee, in the settlement of the loan, (but without the assent of
that court,) the sum of $7219.27 in payment of interest on overdue coupons upon previous loans, and received from the mortgagee only $87,780.73. Held, (1) That this was not a contract, (within the meaning of the
statute,) that the company should receive usurious interest, for no such
contradt had been attempted to be authorized by the county court; (2) That,
as the allowance by the guardian of interest upon interest was under a
mistaken view of the obligation of the coupons in that regard, the remedy was to treat the loan as one for only $87,780.78, making the calculation of interest at the contract rate upon that basis, and not to forfeit
the interest upon the sum actually received by the guardian from the
mortgagee.
Where a guardian, in Illinois, with leave of the county court, contracted
on behalf of his ward's estate, for the repayment of money borrowed,
with interest at nine per cent per annum, payable semiannually until the
principal sum "shall be fully paid "- the principal debt maturing, as required by the statute, before the majoity of the ward -interest is to be
calculated, after the ward's majority, at the contract rate, and not at the
statutory rate of six per cent. In such case, it is the right of the ward,
immediately upon attaining full age, to pay off the debt, or, by agreement
with the lender, obtain an extension of the time of maturity, and a less
rate of interest.
Whatever may be the rate of interest contracted for in Illinois, after the
debt is merged in a judgment or decree the contract ceases to exist, and
the rate of interest upon the sum adjudged to be due, is thereafter controlled by the statute.

THIS appeal brought up for review a decree (United States
.xort9lage Cb. v. iperry,24 Fed. Rep. 838, and United States
o'tgage Go. v. Sperry, 26 Fed. Rep. 727) ordering the sale,
of certain real property in the city of Chicago, belonging to
the appellee Henry W. Kingsbury, in satisfaction of the
aggregate amount found to be due on three bonds given by

UNITED STATES MORTGAGE CO. v. SPERRY.

315

Statement of the Case.

his guardian to the United States Mortgage Company, with
the approval of the county court of Cook County -by which
court the guardian was appointed -for moneys borrowed to
be used in improving the ward's property and discharging certain encumbrances upon it. The bonds, all signed by the
gdardian, were payable, respectively, May 1, 1882, April 1,
1883, and December 1, 1883, and each one was' secured by
mortgage of distinct parts of the real estate directed to be
sold. The mortgages bore date, respectively, July 10, 1872,
April 1, 187, and December 1, 1876, and provided, as did the
bonds, that upon default, continuing for one month, in the
payment of interest as stipulated, the principal sum, together
with all arrearages of interest thereon, should, at the option
of the Mortgage Company, become immediately due and collectible. Default having occurred and continued for one
month in the payment of interest on each of the bonds, the
company, on the 2d of November, 1877, exercised that option,
declared the principal and all arrearages of interest to be
immediately payable and collectible, and within a few days
after that date brought the present suit for foreclosure.
The circumstances under which the bonds, coupons and
mortgages were executed were as follows:
On the 5th of July, 1872, Anson Sperry, guardian of Kingsbury, presented his petition, properly verified, to the county
court of Cook County, showing that the real property of the
minor was subject to encumbrance by mortgages to the amount
of about $78,500; that the debts secured by sofae of them
were due, and the holders demanding payment'; that the
holders of other mortgage debts, soon to mature, were willing
to accept payment and to assign or cancel their mortgages;
that upon all of the mortgages considerable accumulations of
interest were due and unpaid; that a portion of the real
estate belonging to the minor consisted of lot six and a part of
lot five, in block twenty-five of the original town of Chicago,
and that the buildings formerly thereon were destroyed by fire,
October 9, 1871; that the premises constituted a very large
part of his estate in point of productive value, were centrally
located in Chicago, and, before the destruction of the build-

OCTOBER TERMk, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

ings thereon, yielded large rents; that in the judgment of all
persons interested in the estate and in its proper management,
the buildings should -be restored, and the property made productive; that no money had come to the guardian's hands
with which to liquidate the existing mortgage debts or the
accumulated interest thereon ; that the rents from the estate
being insufficient for that purpose, it was necessary that provision be made to prevent the foreclosure of the mortgages;
that there was no money of the estate to be applied in restoring the buildings; that the cost of constructing suitable buildings upon the premises would be about $100,000; and that
for the purpose of funding, consolidating and paying off the
mortgage debts and constructing proper buildings, it would be
necessary to borrow about $200,000.
The prayer of the guardian was that he be authorized to
negotiate, for the purposes stated, a loan of not exceeding
$200,000, and to pay usual and reasonable commissions and
brokerage therefor, upon such terms and for such time as shall
be approved by the court and allowed by law; the mortgage
to rest upon certain premises, belonging to the minor, the
metes and bounds of which were given in the petition of the
guardian. The authority asked for was given, and a loan in
gold for $175,000 was negotiated with the appellant. The
bonds given therefor were made payable, in gold, May 1, 1882,
with interest (evidenced by coupons signed by the guardian)
in like coin at the rate of nine per cent, payable semi-annually,
until the principal was paid; and the mortgage to secure the
payment of principal and interest was submitted to and approved by the county court. The order of approval was made
August 6, 1872.
Subsequently on the 4th of September, 1872, the guardian
filed in the county court an inventory of the real and personal
estate of the minor, which recited all the mortgages upon his
property, including those executed before he inherited it, and
the above mortgage for $175,000. This inventory was examined, approved and ordered to be recorded. A subsequent
inventory filed by him December 26, 1872, showed a balance
of receipts in his hands of $496.98, and a cash balance of

UITED STATES MUoRTGAGE CO. v. SPERRY.

317

Statement of the Case.

$30,026.71 unexpended from the loan that had been authorized
by the court. In that report he said: "That upon consultation
with all parties interested and with persons of sound discretion and without interest, it is thought best to construct on the
north one hundred feet of lot six, fronting on the alley north
of Randolph street, and being the north end of Randolph
street lot, a public hall. There are no halls of the character
intended to be built north of 22d street and east of the south
branch of the Chicago River, and the large number of conventions, meetings, concerts, readings and other assemblages
of a like character requires proper accommodations. The
ground proposed to be used is useless for almost any other
purpose, but is a source of large expense. The ground is
eighty feet wide by one hundred feet deep, and a hall with
seating room for fifteen -to eighteen hundred people can be
built at a cost of about $50,000, from which an annual income
of $10,000, at least, can be realized. An entrance can b*e made
through the Clark street building, and the basement thereunder will rent for the purposes of an eating house at a fair
rent. All the property belonging to said estate is liable to
the dower right of Mrs. Jane C. Kingsbury of one-third of the
net income thereof, and to the dower right of Mrs. Eva Lawrence of two-ninths of said net income." This report was
examined, approved and recorded.
On the 3d of March, 1873, the guardian presented another
petition to the.county court, showing that he had used $68,643.80 out of the above loan in paying off old mortgages on
the minor's estate, leaving a balance of $126,002.58, which he
estimated would all or nearly all be required in the conptruction of buildings then being erected on the Randolph-street
front of lot six in block thirty-five, and the building on that
part of lot five, in the same block, owned by the minor. His
petition also showed that the rear part of lot six had upon
it, before the fire of 1871, a public hall or theatre; and that
upon careful consideration, and after consultation with judicious, competent persons, it was best for the estate to erect a
public hall upon the rear of that lot, having its front on Clark
street, and to be used for concerts, lectures, readings, etc. It

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

further appeared that, in addition to the old mortgages previously described, there were two other encumbrances, that
were either in whole or in part charges upon the estate of
the infant, and which amounted to $15,000 and interest; and
that the money in his hands, of the former loan, would be
needed for the buildings on lot six, and more was needed to
erect the building on the rear of that lot and to pay off said
encumbrances. His petition showed "that the entire estate of
the said Henry W. Kingsbury consists of real estate nearly
all situate in the City of Chicago, and the only revenue and
income of said estate to meet the various charges and encumbrances upon it and its expenses and taxation must be
derived from the rental of said real estate; that no revenue
can, in his judgment and that of judicious persons with whom
he has consulted, be derived from the said rear portion of said
lot six (6) unless the same be improved; that the said premises
have heretofore, as thus improved, been largely productive
and profitable until the said improvements were destroyed by
fire, and it is believed that, if judiciously built upon, as proposed, they would be again equally productive and profitable,
if not more so." He, therefore, asked authority to negotiate
an additional loan of $75,000 in gold coin or the equivalent
thereof in paper currency of the United States, paying usual
and reasonable commissions and brokerage therefor, upon such
terms and for such time as the court would approve and the
law allowed, and to secure the same by mortgage upon certain
described premises.
The prayer of that petition was also granted, and an order
was made authorizing a further loan of $75,000 in gold coin,
or its equivalent in paper currency, upon the terms stated in
the petition. Under this order the mortgage of April 1, 1873,
was executed to secure the payment of $70,000 in gold coin
borrowed by the guardian from the M[ortgage Company, and
for which amount the guardian gave his bond maturing April
1, 1883, payable with interest (evidenced by coupons signed by
him as guardian) at the rate of nine per cent per annum, payable half-yearly in like coin, until the principal sum was fully
paid. This mortgage did not seem to have been formally

UNITED STATES MORTGAGE 00. v. SPERRY.

319

Statement of the Case.

presented to the court for examination, but the fact of its
execution was brought to its attention in the guardian's reports from time to time of the condition of the estate, and was
recognized.
On the 12th of October, 1876, the guardian -who, at that
time, was Herman G. Powers -presented to the county court
a petition showing a large indebtedness against the minor's
estate, arising in part from the erection of buildings upon the
lots before referred to, and including $51,987.04 in gold, which
he stated was due the Unitea States Mortgage Company for
unpaid interest up to August 15, 1876. For the purpose of
discharging said indebtedness, he asked authority to make an
additional loan in gold of a sum not exceeding $95,000, or its
equivalent in paper currency of the United States, paying interest thereon at the rate of nine per cent per annum in gold.
The authority asked was granted, and the amount above named
having been negotiated with the appellant, he executed a mortgage, December 1, 1876, to secure the payment of that sum in
gold coin on the 1st of December, 18833 with interest (evidenced
by coupons signed by him as guardian) payable half-yearly in
like coin, at the rate of nine per cent per annum until the
principal sum was paid; the guardian giving his bond for the
principal sum, and coupons for the interest. The mortgage,
bonds and coupons having been submitted to the court, were
examined and approved.
Upon the basis of the master's report the aggregate amount
due on the 15th day of December, 1885, was $943,399.96.
This amount was reduced by the final decree to the sum of
$221,727.64, making a difference against the company, at that
date, of $121,672.32.
The following extract from the final decree showed how this
result was reached:
"And the court finds that there was due the complainant,
October fifteenth, 1884, of principal and interest on the loans
made by said Anson Sperry as guardian, calculating interest
at nine per cent per annum from the time to which the interest
on said loans had been paid or funded and secured by the mortgage executed by the said Powers, the following sums, to wit:

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

..
$175,000
.........
"Principal of first loan ..
"Interest at nine per cent from November first,
. 125,343
1876, to October fifteenth, 1884. . ..
70,000
.........
"Principal of second loan ..
"Interest at nine per cent from April first, 1877,
.......
47,512
to October fifteenth, 1884 ...
.. $417,856.
........
"Making a total of ...
"And the court finds and the master's report
shows payments to the complainant, made
October fifteenth, 1884, and previously, to
..
$302,568
...........
the amount of ...
"And that said Powers improperly paid to said
complainant the sum of $370.57 as interest
on coupons secured by said 1st and 2d mortgages, which sums should be charged to
...
370
complainant ...........
$302,938
..
.........
"Total payments ..
"Leaving a balance due October fifteenth, 1884,
$114,917
....
on said first two loans of
to
nine
per
cent
"The interest upon which at
.
12,066
December fifteenth, 1885, is. .......
"Leaving a balance due on the first two
.$16,983
.......
loans at that date ..
"And the court finds that the principal of said
third mortgage made by Herman G. Powers
should be reduced by deducting the amount
of interest on coupons included therein, or
$87,780
..........
$7219.27, leaving ..
"And that the complainant should be allowed
as interest thereon to December fifteenth,
6,963
..........
1885, the sum of .....
and
interest
of
principal
aking
a
total
"M
.....
$94,743
due on said mortgage of ..
"Which, added to the sum due on said first two
.$221,727
mortgages, makes a total of ........

00
75
00
50
25

17

57
74:
51
33
84

7'

07
80
6-

due the complainant on all three of said mortgages December
fifteenth, 1885."

UNITED STATES MORTGAGE CO. v. SPERRY.

321

Argument for Appellees.

The calculation of interest was made to December 15, 1885,
because on that day the court below filed an opinion sustaining the defendant's exceptions to the master's report so far as
it allowed, (1) interest on coupons after their maturity; (2).
interest on coupons of the first and second loans included in
the third mortgage; and (3) interest on the third loan at the.
rate of nine per cent.
The assignment of errors questioned the correctness of the
ruling on the exceptions, but made no distinct point as to
interest at the contract rate having been calculated to December 15, 1885, rather than to date of the entry of, the final
decree passed on the 23d of March, 1886.
Xrfr. John J. Her'ick, (with whom was Xfi. Wirt -Dexter on
the brief,) for appellant.
.&. Zyman Trumbull and _r. John P. Wilson for appellees.
I. Was it competent for the guardians of Henry W. Kingsbury, an infant of tender years, to borrow, July 10, 1872,
$175,000; April 3, 1873, $70,000; and, December 1, 1876,
$95,000, all in gold, at nine per cent, semi-annual interest
payable in gold, with commissions of two and one-half per
cent added, and secure the same by mortgages on the infant's.
entire estate, for the purpose of erecting buildings upon some
of his vacant lots, when his estate, before any of the loans
were made, was yielding an annual income, from rentals, of
$26,444.61, and the vacant lots could have been rented for six
or eight thousand dollars besides, an amount more than sufficient to take care of the estate, and provide for and educate
the minor?
In October, 1876, the successor of Sperry, as guardian, with
all the advantages of the increased income from buildings.
erected, reports that there is past due interest to August 15,
1876; on the two previous mortgages amounting to $51,987.04;:
that the lands mortgaged had been sold for taxes, that the
amount due for tax certificates was $10,150.78, and for other
taxes about $9000.
VOL. cxxxvm-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Appellees.

The record demonstrates the utter failure of the speculation
of borrowing money to erect buildings upon the minor's estate, the result of which is this foreclosure suit.
Had the county court power to authorize the guardian to
borrow money for this speculation, which has turned out so
disastrously, and to mortgage his ward's real estate for payment of the borrowed money?
Counsel for appellant contend it had, and that the Supreme
Court of Illinois has decided this precise question in the case
of Zingsbury v. Powers, 131 Illinois, 182, involving the payment of interest by Powers as guardian upon these very
mortgages. If the Supreme Court of Illinois has so decided,
it is conceded that the decision involving the construction of
an Illinois statute would be followed by this court. But has
the Illinois court so decided? We think a critical examination
of the decision referred to will show, that, so far from.having
so decided, the court carefully avoided making any such decision. Now, when a bill is filed for the foreclosure of these
mortgages, the authority of the probate court to sanction, and
of the guardian to execute them, is for the fist time submitted for adjudication. That their validity may be questioned
in this ,foreclosure proceeding, has been expressly decided in
the case of Kingsbury v. Sperry, 119 Illinois, 279.
It follows from these decisions, that, in this foreclosure proceeding, the appellee is entitled to raise every question which
he could have raised if this case had come before the Circuit
Court on a writ of error to review the action of the county
court in granting leave to borrow the money .and execute the
mortgages.
The county court had no power, to authorize money to be
borrowed for the purpose of erecting buildings, and the infant's estate to be mortgaged as security for repayment. A
court of chancery had no such power at the common law.
.Rogersv. Dill, 6 Hill, 415; Williamson v. Ball, 8 How. 556;
Genet v. Tailmadge, 1 Johns. Ch. 561; Taylor v. Piillips, 2
Tes. Sen. 23.
It has, however, been held in Illinois, that a court of chancery has power, in the absence of a statute, to direct a sale of

UNITED STATES MORTGAGE CO. v. SPERRY.

323

Argument for Appellees.

a minor's real estate when it is necessary for his support; but
the Illinois courts are not so far in conflict with all other authorities as to have held that such power exists at the common
law when no necessity is shown. The cases where a court of
chancery, whether acting by virtue of its common law powers
or of statutes, has authorized a mortgage of the infant's estate,
are few, and, it is believed, none can be found where such
mortgage secured money borrowed for the purpose of making
improvements. Wherever an infant's estate has been encumbered or sold, whether at common law or by force: of statutes,
it has been under the pressure of a demonstrateil .necessity.
Cummins v. Cummins, 15 Illinois, 33. No case cited by
counsel, or by the text writers, cited, upholds the power to
authorize encumbering the infant's estate to raise money for
improvements.
The Illinois statute in reference to guardians Jas not conferred on the county court in all respects as to an infant's
estate the common law powers of a court of chancery. Bond
v. Loekwood, 33 Illinois, 213.
It is only for the purposes for which the statute confers the
authority, that the county court has jurisdiction to authorize
a mortgage of an infant's estate. JKingsbury v. perry, above
cited, at p. 283. That the general assembly did not intend to
confer a limitless power on the county court, is apparent
from the many provisions in the guardian and ward act of
fifty sections, directing what shall be done with the ward's
money, how it shali be used, applied and invested. Why all
these provisions, if the county court may, in its discretion,
authorize the guardian to borrow money to be used- for any
and all purposes, and mortgage the infant's real estate for its
repayment?
The original and all the petitions by the guardian to the
county court were for leave to borrow money, and to mortgage the ward's realty for its payment. They were not for
leave :to mortgage to secure an indebtedness already existing,
but to create a debt by borrowing money, and then secure it
by a mortgage. The statute confers on the county court no
jurisdiction or auth6rity to sanction such a proceeding. It is

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Appellees.

only to secure an indebtedness of the minor, or of his estate,
that a mortgage of his real estate is authorized in any case.
A county court had no jurisdiction, to authorize a mortgage
of the ward's realty, to secure Sperry's debt; hence the mortgage in this case is void. The same objections apply to each
of the other mortgages. The case of Payne v. Stone, 7 Sm.
& Marsh. 367, was analogous in many of its features to the
present case. The power of the guardian, by leave of the
county court, to mortgage the real estate of the vard, does
not include the power to borrow money..
The law is equally clear that the county court, even if,
under any circumstances,- it had power, under the statute, to
authorize these mortgages, committed error in doing so without proof that such. course was necessary for the preservation
of the minor's estate, or, at the very least, proof that the
estate would, be benefited thereby. Loyd v. Malone, 23 Illinois, 43; S.C. 74 Am. Dec. 179.
II. The Circuit Court did not err in refusing to allow interest on overdue interest. Cromwell v. Sac County, 96 1U. S.
51; Oi/o v. Frank, 103 U. S. 697; Leonard v. Fillas, 23.
Illinois, 377; Barker v. internationalBank, 80 Illinois, 96;
Thompson v. tHoagland,65 Illinois, 310; -McFaddenv. Fortier,
20 Illinois, 509; Harperv. Ely, 70 Illinois, 581; Rlumphreya
v. -Morton, 100 Illinois, 592; Lexington v. Butler, 14 Wall.
282; Broughtonv. -Mitchell,64 Alabama, 210; Wilson v. -Davis,
1 Montana, 183; Doe v. Warren, 7 Maine, 48; Union Bank
v. Williams, 3 Coldwell, 579; Stokely v. ThonTson, 34 Penn.
St. 210 ; .Aason v. Collender, 2 Minnesota, 302; S.C. 72 Am.
De6. 102; Denver Brick .M f'g Co. v. .McAllister,,6 Colorado,
261; Force v. Elizabeth, 28 N. J. Eq. 403; Connecticut v. Jackson, 1 Johns. Ch. 13; . C. 7 Am. Dec. 471 ; Ferry v. Ferry,
2 Cush. 92.
II. The third mortgage was usurious, and no interest
should have been allowed theteon. Harris v. Bressler, 119
Illinois, .467; Van- Benschooten. v. Lanson, 6 Johns. Ch. 13 ;
S. C. 10 Am. Dec. 333; Peddicord v. Connard, 85 Illinois,
102; Leonard v. Patto.n, 106 Illinois, 99; Loveland v. Bitter,
50 Illinois, 54 Farwell v. Meyer, 35 Illinois, 40; Payne v.

UNITED STATES MORTGAGE CO. v. SPERRY.

325

Opinion of the Court.

nAmundson v. Ryan, II Illi.Neweomb , 100 Illinois, 611;
nois, 506.
IV. The indebtedness due appellant after Kingsbury attained lawful age drew interest only at six per cent. Brewd.e' v. Wakefield, 22 How. 118; iolden. v. Trust Company,
100 U. S. 72; Pkinney v. Baldwin, 16 Illinois, 108; S. C. 61
Am. Dec. 62; Etnyne v. JfeDaniel,28 Illinois, 201.
V. In no event should interest be allowed on coupons
maturing after November 2, 1887.
VI. Appellant was prohibited by its charter from taking
more than seven per cent interest. Farmers' and Xechanics'
_at. Bank v. Dearing, 91 U. S. 29; Burnhisel v. Firman,
22 Wall. 170; Turner v. Calvert, 12 S. & R. 46; 1wing v.
Toledo Savings Bank, 43 Ohio St. 31; Farwell v. Hanover
Savings Fund Society, 40 Ohio St. 274.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, after stating the case
delivered the opinion of the court.

as above,

1. In the court below one of the contentions of the appellee
Kingsbury - who reached his majority before the final decree,
that the guardian had no
and became a defendant -was,
authority to borrow moneys for the purpose of erecting buildings to be rented, or to mortgage the minor's property to
secure the payment of moneys borrowed for that or any other
purpose; that no such authority could be conferred by the
county court; and, consequently, that the mortgages were
absolutely void. The Circuit Court did not concur in this
view. It held the mortgages to b&valid instruments to secure
the payment of whatever amount was legally and justly due
upon an accounting. The reduction of the amount reported
arose from the disapproval of the mode in which the master
computed interest on the several debts.
The contention that the mortgages were unauthorized by
law is renewed in this court; and, although the Mortgage
Company alone has prosecuted an appeal, K ngsbury insists
that even if the mode adopted by the Circui 'Court for computing interest was erroneous, the decree cannot be reversed,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

if this court finds that the mortgages were void for want of
authority in the guardian to execute them. As the present
appeal necessarily brings before us the defence based upon
the alleged invalidity of the mortgages.-a defence that questions the right to a foreclosure for any amount - it is necessary to inquire at the outset whether, by the law of Illinois,
the guardian had authority to mortgage the real estate of his
ward to secure the payment of moneys borrowed to be used
in improving the ward's property or to dischaTge existing
mortgages upon it.
By the constitution of Illinois, county courts are courts of
record with original jurisdiction in the appointment of guardians and the settlement of their accounts, and with such other
jurisdiction as may be given by general law. Art. V. see. 18.
And by the act of the general assembly relating to guardians
and wards, approved April 10, 1872, Rev. Stats. Illinois, 1874,
c. 64, it is provided (§§ 2, 4) that a guardian shall have, under
the direction of the county court, "the custody, nurture and
tuition of his ward, and the care and management of his estate;" although, under some -circumstances, the custody -of the
person, as well as the education of the minor, would be committed to the father or mother. By the same statute it is provided (§§ 19, 20) that the guardian "shall manage the estate of
his ward frugally and without waste, and apply the income
and profit thereof, so far as the same may be necessary, to the
comfort .and suitable support and education of his ward," and
"shall educate his ward." §§ 19, 20. It is made his duty
by § 22 "to put and keep his ward's money at interest, upon
security to be approved by the court, or invest the same in
United States bonds, or other United States interest-bearing
securities;" all loans in amounts exceeding $100 to be upon
real estate security, but no loan to be for a longer time
than three years, nor beyond the minority of the ward. He
"may [§ 23] lease the real estate of the ward upon such terms
and for such length of time, not extending beyond the minority of the ward, as the county court shall approve." So,
also, (§ 24) he "may, by leave of the county court, mortgage.
the real estate of the ward for a term of years not exceeding

UNITED STATES MORTGAGE CO. v. SPERRY.

321

Opinion of the Court.

the minority of the ward, or in fee; but the time of the maturity of the indebtedness secured .by' such mortgage shall not
be extended beyond the time of the minority of the ward."
But (§ 25) "before any mortgage shall be made, the guardian
shall petition the county court for an order authorizing such
mortgage to be made, in which petition shall be set' out the
condition of the estate, and the facts and circumstances on
which the petition is founded, and a description of the premThe statute, also, declares
ises sought to be mortgaged."
(§ 26) "that foreclosures of mortgages authorized by this act
shall only be made by petition to the county court of the
county where letters of guardianship were grauted or in case
of non-resident minors, in the county in which the premises, or
some part thereof, are situated, in which proceeding t~e guardian and ward shall be made defendants; and any sale made
by virtue of any order or decree of foreclosure of such mortgage may, at any time before confirmation, be set aside by
the court for inadequacy of price, or other good cause, and
shall not be binding upon the guardian or ward until confirmed by the court;" and (§ 27) "that no decree of strict
foreclosure shall be made upon any such mortgage, but redemption shall be allowed, as is provided by law, in cases
of sales under executions upon common law judgments."
Power is given to the county court (§ 28) to order "the sale
of the real estate of the ward, for his- support and education,
when the court shall deem it necessary, or to invest the proceeds in other real estate, or for the purpose of otherwise
investing the same," upon the verified petition of the guardian (§ 29) filed at least ten days before the .commencement
of the term of court at which the application shall be made,
and setting forth "the condition of the estate and the facts
and circumstances on which the petition is founded." -Of
the application to sell, notice must be given (§ 31) by publication to all persons concernged, and tried "as in other cases in
chancery." Any order made or judgment rendered under the
act may be reviewed upon appeal to the Circuit Court (§ 43),
the appellant giving such bond and security 4s the court
directs. The statute contains many other sections, but those

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

referred to are all that have any bearing, directly or indirectly,
upon the questions raised in-the present case.
It is clear, from the statement of the proceedings in the
county court, that in each instance of borrowing, the guardian's petition for an order authorizing the loan and mortgage
set out the condition of the estate, the facts and circumstances
on which it was founded and a description of the premises
sought to be mortgaged. And the maturity of the debt,
incurred by borrowing, did not extend beyond the minority
of the ward. §§ 24, 25. The petition, in form, met" all the
requirements of the statute.
The question of the validity of the mortgages is within a
-very liarrow compass, depending, as it does, upon statutory
provisions so clearly expressed as to leave but little room for
-construction. The statute by secs. 4 and 19 commits to the
guardian, under the direction of the county court, the care
and management of the ward's estate, and makes it his duty
to manage it frugally and without waste, applying the income
and profit therefrom, so far as may be necessary, to the comfort and suitable support, as well as to the education of the
ward. It is also made his duty to put and keep the ward's
-money at interest. Now, it is clear that the proper manage-ment of the ward's estate involves something more than his
maintenance and education. It involves the payment of
taxes, and may involve the payment of assessments, insurance
premiums and mortgages, as well as the repairing of buildings; and, in order that the interests of the ward may be
guarded and promoted in every emergency arising in the
management of his estate, the statute empowers the guardian,
with the leave of the county court, to lease, mortgage or sell
his real property. While the statute (§ 28) defines the objects
for which his real property may be sold, it is silent as to the
circumstances under which the guardian may lease or mortgage it. Nevertheless, the power to lease or mortgage is
expressly given. For what purposes may the power to mortgage be exerted? One of the learned counsel for Kingsbury
insists that the guardian, cannot borrow money for any purpose or under any circumstances. If this view be sound, it

UNITED STATES MORTGAGE CO. v. SPERRY.

329

Opinion of the Court.

would result that he could not borrow money to pay taxes, or
insurance premiums, or for necessary repairs upon buildings,
or to discharge mortgages, even when that mode of raising
money is absolutely required by the best interests of the
estate. We cannot suppose that any such result was within
the contemplation of the legislature when it imposed upon the
guardian the duty to care for and manage the ward's estate,
under the direction of the county court, and empowered him,
with the leave of that court, to mortgage real property for
debts maturing on or before the ward's majority. If the
guardian could not, with such leave, borrow money upon
mortgage of real estate to discharge existing encumbrances,
pay taxes, insurance premiums and assessments, or to make
necessary repairs, in what mode could it be raised by him ?
If he could only sell, with the, leave of the court, real property for the particular purposes named in the' 28th sectionnamely,' for the support and education of the ward, or to
invest the proceeds in other real estate, or to invest them
otherwise -in what way, when he was without sufficient
income from the estate, could money be raised to discharge
existing mortgages, pay taxes, insurance premiums, assessments or to make repairs? The answer to this question
suggests that the construction sought to .be placed upon -the
statute is too narrow. We are of opixiion that the legislature
intended to commit the whole subject of.mortgaging the real.
estate of the ward, primarily, to the guardian, subject to certain restrictions, some of which are expressed in the statute,
while others are necessarily implied from its provisions. The
express restrictions are' First, that he obtain the leave of the
county court, based upon petition setting out the -condition of
the estate, the facts and circumstances .on which the petition
is founded, and a description of the premises to be mortgaged;
second, that the mortgage, if not in fee, must be for a term of
years not extending beyond the minority of the ward; third,
that the time of the maturity of the indebtedness secured by
it should not extend beyond the minority of the ward. § 2,
25. The implied restriction, controlling' the discretion and
power both of the guardian and the county colrt, is, that the'

OCTOBER TERM, 1890,
Opinion of the Court.

indebtedness secured by .the iiiortgage must arise out of, ana
have some necessary or appropriate connection with, the management of the ward's estate. We have seen that the express
restrictions, imposed by the statute, were all observed in the
proceedings in the county court. It is equally clear that the
debts created by the borrowing of money from the Mortgage
Company arose out of and had connection with the proper
management of the ward's estate. When the buildings upon
Kingsbury's lots were destroyed by fire in 1871, the'question
,naturally occurred whether it was prudent or for the benefit
qf the ward that the lots be sold and the proceeds invested in
other reallestate or in securities, or whether the buildings
,destroyed should not be replaced, and other lots belonging to
the ward improved. It was the duty of the guardian, as well
as of the county *court when informed of the situation, to
consider those questions, because- they were involved in the
management of the estate. If the guardian had not taken
such action as his best judgment indicated, he would have
been neglectful of his duty. At any rate, these questions
werej in the first instance, for him and for the county court;
.and their determination of them in the mode prescribed by
the statute was subject to be reviewed, upon appeal, in the
.Circuit Court.
This interpretation does not recognmize, as belonging to the
guardian and to the County Court, any larger powers than
they have by the express words of the statute in respect to
the disposition by sale of the real estate of the ward. Before
the fire of 1871 it was competent for him, with the leave of
the county court, to sell even the improved property of the
ward in Chicago for the purpose of investing the proceeds in
9ther real estate, improved or unimproved, or of otherwise
investing them. For like-purposes, and with the leave of that
court, he could have sold the lots after the buildings were
destroyed 1 y fire. But no such sales should have been made
if they could have been avoided, nor if, in the judgment of the
guardian and of the county court, looking to the probable
future of Chicago, it waq best to replace the buildings destroyed
.and to improve tots not theretofore occupied by buildings. It

UNITED

STATES MORTGAGE -CO.v. SPERRY.

331

Opinion of the Court.

is asked, why did not the guardian lease the property, and
thus avoid the expenweof rebuilding? As leases could not
extend beyond the nrinority of the ward, it. may be that thiproperty could not have been advantageously leased for a short
term of years, or a sufficient amount raised in that mode to'
meet the unpaid and constantly accruing taxes as well as thjE
existing mortgages upon the property about to be foreclosed.
Be this as it may, and independently of these consideraoons,
it is sufficient to say that the question of lease, mortgage or
sale was, under the statute, for the determination of the gua'dian and the county court. The power to sell real estate for
the purpose of investing the proceeds in other real estate, irhproved or unimproved or of lending them upon real estate,
security, is not, looking at its nature or the consequences to
result from its exercise, less important than the power to borrow money, secured by mortgage, to improve the ward's real
property. If the former may be determined by the guardian
and the county court, as the statute expressly decres it may
be, we do not feel at liberty to hold that-the-atter may not
be also determined by them, especially as the power to mort.gage is given without any restriction other tharr such as is
necessarily implied.
It is also suggested by counsel for Kingsbury that if a guardian may, under any cirgumstdnees or for any purpose, borrow
money and mortgage the real property of the ward to secure
its payment, he can only do so when thereunto authorized by
the Circuit Court of the proper county exercising the usual
powers of-a court of chancery. We cannot perceive anything
in the statute to sustain this interpretation. -Itmay be that,
the Circuit Court of the proper county, in virtue of its general
equity jurisdiction, and in a suit brought in behalf of the ward.
by the guardian, could have authorized the latter to borrow
money to improve the ward's real property, and give a mortgage to secure payment of the,-amount borrowed. It was held
in Smith v. Sakett, 5 Gilman. 534, 645- that " te jurisdiction
.of the court of cbancey to order the -sale of -the whole, or a
portion of the, estate of an infant, -or to-order it to be encumbered'by mortgage whenever-the interest of' the infant demands

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

it, will not be denied, whether that interest be of a legal or
equitable nature." And in Allman v. Taylor, 101 Illinois,
185, 191, the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court sitting in equity,
in a suit brought in the name of the infant by his guardian,
to order the sale of the minor's unimproved lands in Illinois,
that the proceeds might be applied in removing encumbrances
on'his improved land in Indiana, was sustained upon the principle announced in Smith v. Sackett. See also Frith v. Cameron, L. R. 12 Eq. 169. But it does not follow that the statute
of 1872 did not confer like jurisdiction upon the county court.
That court, we have seen, is, by the state constitution, a court
of record and of original jurisdiction, in the appointment of
guardians, and the settlements of their accounts. It has, also,
by the. statute, general authority over the matters, committed
to it by the statute of 1872.
It is further contended that, if the county court could
authorize the execution of mortgages to secure the payment of
money borrowed, the mortgages in suit are not of that class,
because the act of 1872 provides that the mortgages executed
under it shall be foreclosed only upon petition in the county
court, and that no strict foreclosure shall be made, but that
redemption shall be allowed as is now provided by law in
cases of sales under execution upon common-law judgments,
(§§ 26, 27); whereas, the mortgages executed by Kingsbury's
guardian authorize an absolute sale, and did not expressly
recognize the right of redemption after sale. The declaration
in the statute that foreclosures authorized by it shall only be
made b petition to the county court, granting the letters of
guardianship, was not intended to exclude- indeed, it could
not have excluded -the jurisdiction, in such cases, of the Circuit Court of the United States, if that court would otherwise
have jurisdiction. -Davis v. James, 10 Bissell, 51. It had
reference only to the courts pf the State, and to the mode of
foreclosing mortgages in the county court. Upon the other
point, in respect to the right of redemption, it need only be
said that it was not necessary to the validity of the mortgage
that it should expressly reserve the right of redemption. That
right is given by the statute, and is recognized by the Circuit

UNITED STATES MORTGAGE CO. v. SPERRY.

333

Opinion of the Court.

Court of the United States, sitting in Illinois, as a rule of
property, and was so recognized in the final decree in this
case. The decree expressly provides, in conformity with the
law of Illinois and the rules adopted in the court below, that
the purchaser shall receive a deed only after the expiration'of
fifteen months from the date of the sale. Connecticut .lut.
Life Ins. Co. v. Cuskinan, 108 U. S. 51.
Again, it is insisted that, if the county court had power
under the statute to authorize these. mortgages, it could not
authorize them without proof that such course was necessary
for the preservation of the minor's estate, or, at the very
least, that the estate would thereby be benefited. If such an
objection as this can be urged in defence of a suit to foreclose
the mortgages, or for the purpose of impeaching their validity, it is met by the fact that the record of this case fails to
show that the county court made the orders authorizing the
execution of the mortgages without full proof as to the necessity or propriety of making them. The statute does not
require that the petition to the county court for leave to
mortgage shall be supported by any particular amount of
proof, nor prevent the court from acting upon its personal
knowledge of the facts. The orders, showing the leave of
the county court to make the mortgages in suit, are entirely
consistent with a thorough investigatioli of the facts by that
court, in some appropriate form, before the orders were made.
Those orders recite that the court, upon examining the guardian's petition, was sufficiently advised in the premises. Even
without such recital, and in the absence of anything to the
contrary, it must be assumed that the court, if required by
law to hear formal proof of the allegations in the verified
petition of the guardian, discharged its whole duty.
At the argument it was contended by the appellant that the
question of the validity of the mortgages in suit was concluded, in its favor, by .Yingsbury v. Powers, 131 Illinois, 182,
192, where it was held that the guardian was entitled to credit'
for the amounts paid to the United States Mortgage Company
for interest. One of the contentions there was that the county
court had no power to authorize a guardian to borrow money

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

for the purpose of erecting new and costly buildings upon
unimproved real estate, and that, therefore, the money so borrowed, upon which interest was paid, was borrowed without
authority of law, and imposed no obligation whatever upon
the estate of the ward. The court, referring to this contention, said: "That under certain circumstances the probate
court [which had-succeeded to the jurisdiction of the county
court] exercising a chancery power, in that respect, (Bond v.
Lockwood, 39 Illinois, 213,) is empowered to authorize a guardian to borrow money -under circumstances, as, for instance,
for the prpvention of irreparable injury to the estate, - is
clear; and, our statute expressly authorizes that court to empower the guardian to mortgage the real estate. (See Rev.
Stats. 1874, c. 64, § 24, 25, etc.) The several steps pointed out
by those sections were pursued in this instance, in obtaining
the decree. There was, therefore, authority in that tribunal
to adjudicate, and, at most, its orders were erroneous only,
and not void. Until reversed dn appeal, or set aside by some
appropriate proceeding, they were binding, and it was, therefore, incumbent on the guardian to pay the interest accumulating upon the indebtedness." There is certainly some ground
for the appellant's contention that this decision, in effect, sustains the power of the guardian, with the leave of the county
court, to borrow money to improve his ward's real property'
and secure its payment by mortgage; for it would seem that
"the
order of the county court would' have been not simply
erroneous, but void, if the statute did not, under any circumstauces, authorize the borrowing of mbney to erect new buildings upon the unimproved real property of the ward, and to
pay off existing mortgage encumbrances. It is, however,
proper to say that .Kingsburyv. Power8, as well as Kingbury
v. Sper'i, 119 Illinois, 279, have been treated as not directly
deciding the precise question before us, in respect to the
validity of the mortgages in suit, and, in the absence of, any
direct determination by the Supreme Court of the State, we
have given the statute that construction which, in our judgment is required by 'its provisions. We hold, in accordance
with the views of the Circuit Court, that the mortgages, and,

UNITED STATES MORTGAGE CO. v. SPERRY.

335

Opinion of the Court.

therefore, the bonds in suit, were not invalid for want of
authority in law for their execution by the guardian, acting
under the direction of the county court.
We pass to the examination of questions relating to interest,
and to the mode of computing it.
2. The appellant is a corporation of New York, created by
special act passed May 12,1871. It is authorized by its charter
(§ 2) "to lend money on bond and mortgage on real estate
situated within the United States, or upon any hypothecation
of such real estate, or upon hypothecation of bonds and mortgages on such real estate for any period of credit and repayable by annuity or otherwise."
Its loans on mortgage or
hypothecation (§ 16) "may be made to individuals, corporations, associations, states, cities, provinces and towns, or other
municipal bodies authorized thereto." Its charter also provides (§ 21) that "no loan shall be made directly or indirectly
to any director or officer of the company, nor shall any loan:
or advance of money be made at a rate of interest exceeding
the legal rate." The highest iate of interest permitted by the
general laws of New York to be contracted for, at the time
the loans in question were made, was seven per cent. The
same laws provided that no person or corporation should,
directly or indirectly, take or receive interest at a greater rate.
2 Rev. Stats. N. Y. Part 2, Title 3, §§ 1, 2; vol. 2, 6th ed. p.
1164; vol. 4, 8th ed. p. 2512. By the statutes of Illinois, in
force when the bonds and mortgages in suit were given, it
was lawful for parties to stipulate for interest at the rate of
ten lier cent per annum, or any less rate. 1 Gross's Stats. Illinois, 371, § 10 ; 3 Ib. 244, § 4.
It is contended that the appellant, although having express
authority by its charter to lend money on bond and mortgage
of real estate, "situated within the United States," could not
contract in Illinois for-the-highest rate of interest allowed by
that State, but was'limited to a rate of interest not exceeding
that established by the State under whose laws it was created
a corporation; and, therefore, it cannot, in the accounting, be
allowed more than seven per cent interest upon the principal
sum. We concur with the court below in holding this posi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

tion to be untenable. Reasonably construed, the appellant's
charter authorized it to contract for such rate of interest as
was lawful in the State where the contract of loan was made,
and where the property mortgaged to secure the loan was
situated. The general statute of New York had for its object
to regulate the rate of interest upon loans there made, and not
the rate upon loans made elsewhere. That State did not
assume to fix the maximum of compensation to be paid to the
lender for the use of money in other States. What compensation is fair'or just for the use of money borrowed cannot well
be determipned upon principles applicable alike to all parts of
the country. The risk is much greater for the lender, and
the amount the borrower can reasonably pay is larger, in some
localities than in others. Laws regulating the rate of interest
necessarily depend upon the condition of the people in the
particul.ar States or communities enacting them. Such laws
express the policy of the respective States upon that subject.
When New York created the Mortgage Company, with power
to loan money upon real estate anywhere within the United
States, and prohibited it from lending money, at a rate of
interest " exceeding the legal rate," it did not intend to withhold from it the power to contract in other States, for interest
upon moneys -loaned, upon terms less favorable than those
States permitted in respect to loans there made by other corporations, and by individuals. The legal rate referred to in
the appellant's charter is the rate established by the law of
the place where the contract of loan is made. This view is
supported by those decisions in New York which hold, in
respect to loans made in other States, that the rate of interest,
allowed by the State where the contract of loan is made, will
b6 respected by the courts of New York, although such rate is
in excess of that fixed by its own laws, and although, in some
of the cases, one of the parties to the contract, the lender, was
a resident of that State. Sheldon v. Haxtun, 91 N. Y. 124;
Wayne County Savings Bank v. Low, 81 N. Y. 566; Pratt
v. Adams, 7 Paige, 615. See also Tilden v. Blair, 21 Wall.
241, and Scudder v. Union Nat. Bank, 91 U. S.406, 412.
3.The next question to be considered is whether the over-

UNITED STATES MORTGAGE CO. v. SPERRY.

337

Opinion of the Court.

due coupons drew interest? The master allowed interest
thereon, after maturity, at the statutory rate of six per cent
per annum, but the Circuit Court held that interest upon interest was inadmissible.
By the statutes of Illinois in force when these loans were
was provided that "credimade -indeed, ever since 1845 -it
tors shall be allowed to receive [interest] at the rate of six per
cent per annum for all moneys after they become due on any
bond, bill, promissory note or other instrument of writing;"
although under other statutory provisions parties might stipulate for, or agree upon, ten per cent or any less rate, "for
money loaned or in. any manner due and owing from any
person or corporation to any other person or corporation in
that State." Rev. Stats. Ill. 1845, 294; 1 Gross's Stats. Ill.
370, c. 54; 3 Gross's Stats. Ill. 243; 1 Starr & Curtis, 1356;
Rev. Stats. 1874, p. 614.
The bond, given by the guardian on the first loan, dated
July 10, 1872, provided for the payment of "the principal
sum of $175,000, in gold coin of the United States, on the 1st
day of May, 1882, with interest for the same, to be computed
from the day of the date hereof, at the rate of nine per centum
per annum, in like gold coin, which said interest shall be paid
half-yearly, to wit, on the first day of each of the months of
November and May from and after the date hereof, which will
be in each and every year until the said principal sum shall be
fully paid, which said interest payments, until the said principal sum shall become due, are specified in and further secured
by twenty coupons given herewith. . . . But this bond is
not intended to bind said Anson Sperry personally or his personal estate, but to bind him as such guardian and the estate
of the said minor, Henry W. Kingsbury, [of] which he is guardian as aforesaid." These provisions were also contained in
the mortgage given to secure the payment of the bond. The
coupons of this bond were also signed by the guardian, and
were in the following form: "Due the United States Mortgage
Company, $-, on the first day of - , 18-, in gold coin of
the United States, payable, at such place at the city of Chicago,
in the State of Illinois, as the United States Mortgage CoinvoL.. cxxxvm-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

pany, their'successors, legal representatives or assigns, shall
in writing from'time to time appoint, and in default of such
appointment/then at the agency of said company in the said
city of Chicago, being for the payment of an instalment of
interest due on that day on my bond to the said United States
Mortgage Company of this date, conditioned for the payment
in gold coin of the United States of $-, with semi-annual
interest at nine per cent per annum on the whole sum from
time to time, remaining unpaid, in gold coin of the United
States, said bond being made to secure a loan made to me in
like gold coin." The bonds, mortgages and coupons executed
for the other two loans contained similar provisions.
Each contract of loan was made and was to be performed in
Illinois; and each bond provides that it is to be construed by
the laws of Illinois. Interest upon interest, as represented by
.the coupons, must therefore be allowed or disallowed as may
be required by the law of that State. In Illinois, the whole
subject is regulated by statute, and interest cannot be recovered
unless the statute authorizes it. Scmmis v. Clark, 13 Illinois,
544, 546; Phinney v. Baldwin, 16 Illinois, 108; Aldrich v.
.Dunham, 16 Illinois, 403; Pekin v. Reynolds, 31 Illinois, 529,
532; Illinois Central Railroad v. Cobb, 72 Illinois, 148, 152;
Chicago v. Allcock, 86 Illinois, 384; Ohio V. Frank, 103 U. S.
697.
!The precise question before us is, whether the interest provided for in the bonds and mortgage: in suit, and further evidenced by coupons, drew interest after maturity, in virtue of
the above statute allowing interest at the rate of six per cent
per annum "for all moneys after they become due on any
bond, bill, promissory note, or other instrurient of writing."
The scope and effect of this statute have been considered by
the Supreme Court of Illinois in numerous cases, which have
been the subject of extended discussion by counsel.
ltMalker v. Hadduck, 14 Illinois, 399; Heiman v. Schroeder,
74 Illinois, 158; and Knickerbocker Ins. Co. v. Gould, 80 Illinois, "388, referred to by appellant, and the recent case of
Heissler v. Stose, 131 Illinois, 393, 397. bold, respectively, that
instalmefits of rent due on a written lease, instalments due on

UNITED STATES MORTGAGE CO. v. SPERRY.

339

Opinion of the Court.

a written contract for building, and the amount due on a policy
of insurance are moneys due on instruments of writing, and,
therefore, by the statute, draw interest after maturity. These
cases do not bear directly upon the question of interest upon
interest; for the moneys due in them were principal sums.
Interest upon such sums is in no sense interest upon interest.
In .Xfc~adden v. Fo'tier,20 Illinois, 509, 516, a proceeding by
.8eirefavasto foreclose a mortgage given to secure promissory
notes, each for a definite principal sum to be paid at a named
date, "with six per cent interest," the court said that the rule
for casting interest on notes, bonds, etc., upon which partial
payments have been made, was to apply such payments to
keep down the interest, "but the interest is never allowed to
form a part of the principal so as to carry interest."
Leonard v. illar8, 23 Illinois, 371, much relied on -by the
appellee, was a suit to foreclose a mortgage given to secure
four promissory notes, which, upon their face, were made payable, respectively, in one, two, three and four years from date,
with interest at the rate of ten per cent per annum, "the
interest to be paid annually in advance."
Only the first
year's interest was paid in advance. -In,relation to the computation of interest, the court said: "To compute interest
upon interest after its maturity, has, by all -courts, whether
exercising equity or common law jurisdiction, been held to be
compound interest, and in violation of law. This question is
one that has been frequently presented, and it is believed, as
uniformly held to be unauthorized. We are not aware of any
well-considered case, which has held that there is an implied
legal or moral obligation to pay interest upon interest after
its maturity. The court below erred in computing interest
after it fell due." p. 380. This case was referred to in Barker
v. InternationaZ Bank, 80 Illinois, 96, which was a suit to
foreclose a deed of trust given to secure the payment of a
promissory note on a -named day, "with interest at the rate of
six per cent." The court said: "No payments having been
made upon the note, the interest should have been computed
from the date of the note until the rendition of the decree,
and added to the principal, and a decree rendered for that

OCTOBER TERMT,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

It was expressly decided by this court, in Leonard
v. VilWars, 23 Illinois, 377, that it was error to compute interest upon interest. The rule there announced must control
here." p. 101.
In -Dulaney v. Payne, 101 Illinois, 325, 331, which was an
action of assumpsit for the principal amount due on a promissory note payable at a named date, "with ten per cent interest
from date, interest payable semi-annually," a previous judgment obtained in a separate action for an instalment of interest was pleaded in bar, but the court held the plea to be bad,
upon the ground that the note contained two distinct contracts
amount.

- one to pay the principal, and the other the interest-and

that a separate action could be maintained after the maturity
of interest to recover such interest only. The same principle
had been announced in Walker v. Zimball, 22 Illinois, 537,
and was repeated in Wekrly v. 3lorfoot, 103 Illinois, 183, 186,
and in Xl-oDole y. ,foDole, 106 Illinois, 452, 459- Thayer v.
Star .Mining Company, 105 Illinois, 541, was a suit for the
specific performance of a contract for the sale of real estate,
in which there was a question as to the computation of interest on the amount of promissory notes maturing at named
dates, each "with interest payable annually." The court said:
"It is true that compound interest will not be allowed in the
absence of an agreement to pay it; but after interest has accrued due, it may by agreement between the parties be turned
into principal, and made to bear interest for delay of payment." See also .Hawortav. Huling, 87 Illinois, 23; .AfrGovern v. Union Afut. .ife Im. Co., 109 Illinois, 151, 156, and
Gilmore v. Bissell, 124 Illinois, 488.
In none of these cases were there separate coupons or warrants representing the stipulated interest. But Harperv. Ely,
70 Illinois, 581, 586, (Harper v. Ely, 56 Illinois, 179,) and
Humphreys v. .Afortom, 100 Illinois, 592, were of that class.
Harperv. Ely involved a question as to interest evidenced by
coupons of a bond secured by a trust deed. The court said:
"The coupons provide for the payment of a definite sum of
money at a specified time. They are in writing, and in effect
are promissory notes, and we are aware of no reason why in-

UNITED STATES MORTGAGE CO. v. SPERRY.

341

Opinion of the Court.

terest should not be computed upon them after they became
due. Gelpoke v. Dubuque, 1 Wall. 175, 206; Hollingsworth,
v. Detroit, 3 McLean, 472; Dunlap v. Tiseman, -2 Disney
(Ohio) 398."
Hlumphreys v. Morton was a suit to foreclose
mortgages given by a railroad company to secure bonds, with
interest warrants attached, which it had issued. The warrants
were in the following form: "$35. Peoria, Pekin and Jacksonville Railroad Company. Interest warrant for thirty-five
dollars, payable at the Importers' and Traders' Bank of the
city of New York, on the first day of -, 18-, for 6 months'
interest on bond No. -.
L. Chapman, Jr., Secretary." The
court said: "That interest was properly allowed and computed
on this instrument, is settled by Rarper v. .REy, 70 Illinois, 581,
and the cases there referred to; and reference may, also,, be
made to Clark v. Iowa City, 20 Wall. 583; Genoa v. Woodruft,
92 U. S. 502; and Amy v. Dubuque, 98 U. S. 470, 473, holding the same doctrine." So, in the late case of Benneson v.
Savage, 130 Illinois, 352, 367, it was said that "the executing
of a coupon is the executing of an instrument, which, ex v2
termini, bears interest after maturity-if no rate is expressed,.
six per cent; and, at the date of executing these coupons, any
rate not exceeding ten per cent might be fixed by agreement
of the parties;" citing ilarper v. Ely and -Humphreys v.
2orton.
The case of Leonard v. Villar8, referred to with approval
in Barker v. International Bank, undoubtedly proceeds upon
the broad ground, that the statute does not allow interest upon
interest, even where the instrument given for the payment of
the principal sum at a named date is a promissory note, and
provides on its face, but not also in separate coupons, for the
payment of interest at stated periods intermediate the date of
the note and the maturity of the principal sum. The question
was much discussed at the bar as to whether the doctrine of
that case was modified by later cases.
It is argued that, as a note or other written instrument providing on its face for the payment of the principal debt, with
interest at named dates in advance of the maturity of the principal surd, contains two distinct contracts, one to pay- the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

principal and the other to pay the interest, (Dulaney v. Payne,.
Walker v. Zimall, and Wekrly v. .f!orfoot, above cited,) such
interest is as much money due on an instrument of writing as.
if it were evidenced by separate coupons. But that interpretation of the statute is scarcely consistent with Leonard v. Villars, and we cannot assume that the Supreme Court of Illinois
has intended by its later decisions to overrule the doctrine of
that case. Htarper v. .Ely, Tumphreys v. forton, and Benneson v. Savage decide nothing more than that separate coupons, when they are, in effect, negotiable promissory notes,
and, therefore, instruments upon which the obligor may be
held personally liable: for the amount named in them, draw
interest after maturity by virtue of the statute, and are exceptions from the general rule announced in Leonard v. Villar.
That such is the state of the local law is manifest from the
case of Drury v. Wolfe, 25 N. E. Rep. 626, decided since this.
cause was submitted. It was there said by Mr. Justice Scholfield, speaking for the court: "The general rule recognized by
this court, is, that parties cannot be bound by any contract
made before interest is due for the payment of compoind interest [citing, among other cases, Leonard v. Villars];
but, after interest is due, it may, by agreement then made, be
added to the principal, and made to thereafter bear interest.
There is, perhaps, an exception to the rule, as first
above stated, in the case of interest coupons annexed to commercial paper. Such coupons bear interest. Bennesom v. Savage, 130 Illinois, 352, and cases there cited. But in such case,
interest is not compounded indefinitely. Interest is simply
payable upon the amount of the face of the coupon; and that
the coupon bears interest is solely because, of the character
given it by commercial usage. Aurora v. West, -7Wall. 82,
105 ; Jkercer Co. v. Hacket, 1 Wall. 83; Meyer v. .Mluscatine,1
Wall. 384. There is, therefore, no authority in this for holding that interest may becompounded indefinitely, or at all, in
,cases where the payment', of interest is not secured by some
negotiable instrument, independent of the instrument whereby
the original indebtedness is presumed to be paid."
The present case is controlled by the general rule that

UNITED STATES MORTGAGE CO. v. SPERRY.

343

Opinion of the Court.

interest upon interest will not'be allowed, and is not within
the exception established by the recent cases in the Supreme
Court of Illinois. The coupons signed by the guardian,
although additional evidence of the interest agreed to be paid,
are not independent obligations, nor strictly commercial securities, upon which he can be held 4iable; for, by the express
contract between the parties, recited in the bonds and mortgages, he and his estate are exempt from all liability for the
moneys borrowed. And as the iard was not personally
liable for these moneys (Story on Bills, §§ 74, '75 ; Forssrv.
.FuZler, 6 Mass. 58; 1 Daniel on Nego. Instr. § 271; 1 Parsons on Notes and Bills, 89, 90,) the bonds as well as the
coupons were, in effect, payable out of particular funds, and
not absolutely and at all events as in the case of commercial
paper.
It results that the Circuit Court properly disallowed interest upon interest.
4. It is said that the company agreed, during the progress
of the cause below, that interest be computed at nine per cent
until the date of the appointment of LeMoyne as. guardian of
Kingsbury, and at only six and one-half per cent after that
date; and that as the sum adjudged to the company was the
precise sum due, at the date of the decree, upon the above
basis, the decree was for the right amount, and ought not to
be reversed, even if the court below erred in holding that
coupons do not draw interest after maturity, and that the
third mortgage embraced items that ought not to have been
included in it.
The facts out of which this contention arises are as follows:
On the 20th of September, 1877, John V. LeMoyne became
Kingsbury's *guardian in place of Powers, resigned, and, by
an order entered May 15, 1878, was directed to pay into
court, for investment in United States bonds, all sums .secured
by him as rents subsequently to November 26, 1877, and
thereafter pay into court, on the first day of each month, all
sums received by him, less such sums as might be paid, under
the order of the court, for the support of the ward and to
meet other expenses. LeMoyne, December 2, 1878, filed an

OCTOBER TERM,, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

answer impeaching the validity of the mortgages and denying
the right of the Mortgage Company to do business in Illinois.
On the 18th of January, 1882, there was filed in court a
written stipulation, signed by the appellant's attorneys, which
recited that a large net income was being collected annually
from the ward's estate which could be applied to the reduction
of whatever claim the Mortgage Company may have, and that
it had agreed to a reduction of the rate of interest on the
indebtedness claimed, under the arrangement and on the terms
and conditions in that stipulation set forth. Those terms and
conditions were as follows: "1. That if an order is made in
said cause that the amount now deposited in this court to the
credit of said estate shall be forthwith paid to said United
States Mortgage Company, and that hereafter the income
from said estate, after deducting all necessary expenses of said
property, shall be paid monthly to said Mortgage Company,
the said payments to be credited by said Mortgage Company
on any amount which may be ultimately found due to said
company from said estate, then the said United States Mortgage Company agrees that from the date of the appointment
of said John V. LeMoyne as guardian of said minor the rate
of interest on the indebtedness claimed by said company shall
be reduced from nine per cent per annum to six and one-half
per cent; said reduction being made, however, upon the express condition that the payments above provided for shall be
made, and that the said minor shall, within six months after
his majority, pay to said Mortgage Company the principal
sums included in said mortgages, with interest thereon to be
computed (to the date of said LeMoyne's appointment as
guardian) at the rate and according to the terms of said mortgages, and thereafter at said reduced rate; and upon the,
further express condition that if said payments are not aade
as aforesaid, then said company shall have the same right to
proceed with the foreclosure of said mortgages, and to demand
ahd collect the full amount secured by said mortgages, according to their terms, and without deduction from the rate of
interest provided for in said mortgages, and shall have the
same rights in all respects under said mortgages as if this

UNITED STATES MORTGAGE CO. v. SPERRY.

345

Opinion of the Court.

stipulation had not been made. 2. An order shall be entered
in said cause directing the payments to be made to said Mortgage Company according to the terms of this stipulation, and
this stipulation shall take effect from the date of the entry of
said order."
On the same day the court made an order, which, after
reciting the pending motion of the complainant that the
money deposited in court by LeMoyne, pursuant to the order
of May 15, 1878, be paid to it, and also the terms of the above
stipulation, directed "that all the money now in court in this
cause, including proceeds of bonds to be converted by the
clerk, amounting to a total sum of sixty-one thousand nine
hundred and sixty-nine dollars and twenty cents, be paid to
said complainant, less the clerk's commissions of one per cent,
said clerk taking its receipt-therefor, and that hereafter said
defendant LeMoyne pay to the said complainant monthly the
money required by said order of May 15, 1878, to be paid into
court, and that he take the receipt of the said complainant
and file the same in lien of the money with his'monthly
report herein, and that'all such sums of money so to be paid
to said complainant shall be paid on account of any indebtedness which may ultimately be found by this court to be due
to said complainant in this suit, without determining any of
the questions involved herein." The monthly payments pro-,
vided for in the stipulation were made to the appellants up to
September, 1884. On the 15th of October, 1884-Kingsbury
having become of full age in December, 1883 - there -vas
paid to the company, out of the proceeds of a certain portion,
of the mortgaged property, released" by it from the mortgages
in suit, the sum of $180,000. As evidence of that payment,, a
writing was filed in court, signed by Kingsbury, by LeMoyne,.
his attorney in fact, and by the Mortgage Company, whichstated: "The United States Mortgage Company has received
from Henry W. Kingsbury, by John V. LeMoyne, one hundred and. eighty thousand dollars, to be applied on any indebtedness or claim which may be found due it from said
Kingsbury. in the above suit, and said payment is made by,
said Kingsbury and received by said Mortgage Company upon'

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the agreement that it shall not in any way operate or be considered a waiver of any claim that either of said parties have
made or claimed or may have or claim in said suit or in regard
to the subject matter thereof, it being expressly understood
that neither this nor any other payment received by said
:Mortgage Company from said fenry W. Kingsbury shall be
construed in any way to be a waiver of the claim now made
by said Mortgage Company, that it is entitled to demand the
full amount of the principal and semi-annual interest thereon
at nine per cent per annum, specified to be paid by the terms
of the original bonds and mortgages, held by the said Mort
gage Company."
On the 2d day of June, 1885, Kingsbury filed his separate
answer, in which, among other things, he denied that the
county court had ever authorized, or could legally authorize,
the creation of the loans, or the giving of the mortgages, here
in suit. Subsequently, June 13, 1885, he filed a petition in
the cause, referring to the stipulation and order of January
18, 1882, the payment to the appellant, under that order, of
$65,730.40, -and the payment of the further sum of $60,598.97
up to September, 1884, and stating that the Mortgage Company had refused to come to any settlement with him unless
he recognized the validity of the mortgages, and allowed
interest on the principal debts at nine per cent, although he
was willing, while denying the validity of the mortgages,
that a decree be entered binding his property for the actual
cash received by his guardians, subject to all payments made,
with six per cent interest; that the net income of the estate
was about $40,000, having nearly doubled since this action
was brought; that the then fair appraised value of the mortgaged property was fully $800,000; and that LeMoyne had
collected and had in his hands $17,000 of income from the
petitioner's property. The prayer of his petition was that an
order be entered directing LeMoyne to pay over such mbneys
to him, "and that the orders of May 15, 1878, and January
18, 1882, may be discharged and declared to be of no effect
as to the future income of said property, and all other relJef."
On the 28th of November, 1885, this application was heard,

UNITED STATES MORTGAGE CO. v. SPERRY.

34T

Opinion of the Court.
and an order entered granting the prayer of the petition, discharging the receiver, and directing him to forthwith deliver
to Kingsbury the possession and control of all the real estate,
buildings, personal property and choses in 'action, money,
books and papers in his hands or under his control. The
order was made upon certain condiions that do not affect the
question now being considered.
The contention of the appellee Kingsbury is,- that under this
state of facts the Mortgage Company cannot claim interest at
a greater rate than six per cent after the date of the appointment of LeMoyne as guardian. It is argued that the court,
by its order of January 18, 1882, accepted, for the benefit of
the ward, the company's offer to reduce the rate of interest,
without assenting to the express conditions imposed by the
stipulation; that if the company did not approve the order, in
the form in which it was entered, it should have declined to
receive the moneys then in the registry of the court, which
were directed to be paid to it; and that the receiving those
moneys, as well as the monthly rents subsequently accruing,
was a waiver of the express conditions set forth in the stipulation, and equivalent to an unconditional agreement by the
company to reduce the interest. We cannot assent to this
view. The court below certainly did not intend, by the order
of January 18, 1882, to ignore the conditions upon which the
company's offer to reduce thl rate of interest was based. It
intended, so far as it had the power, to put the ward in a.position in which he could, upon arriving at age, avail himself of
the proposed reduction of interest. And if Kingsbury had,
within the time specified in both the stipulation and the orer,
paid into court the full amount of any balance due, allowing only six and a half per centun interest after the date f
LeMoyne's appointment as guardian, the company's stipulatioh
to reduce the interest could, perhaps, have been enforced.
But he chose not to perform the required condition, but t&
take his chances of a favorable decision of the cause upon the
isslies made by the pleadings. To that end he obtained the
order setting aside that of Janudry 18, 1882, as of no effect.
So that, before the final decree was made, the plan of settle-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

ment, indicated in the order of 1882, was repudiated by both
parties, and by the court itself. The effect of the order of
November 28, 1885, setting aside that of January 18, 1882,
and giving Kingsbury full control of the mortgaged property,
of the moneys then in court or thereafter to come from rents
- even if that effect had not been produced by the failure of
Kingsbury to meet the condition to be performed by him
within six months after, reaching his majority -was
to remit
him and the company to whatever rights either had under the
original contracts of loan prior to the stipulation and order of
January 18, 1882. The construction placed upon the stipulation
and order of January 18, 1882, is in harmony with the rule,
supported by authority, that "where a certain sum of money
is due, and the creditor enters into arrangements with his
debtor to take a lesser sum, provided that sum is secured in
a certain way and paid at a certain day, but if any of the
stipulations of the arrangement aie not performed as agreed
upon, the creditor is to be entitled to recover the whole of the
original debt, such remitter to his original rights does not constitute a penalty, and equity will not interfere to prevent its
observance." White & Tudor's Leading Cases Eq. vol. 2, p.
2025; Pomeroy's Eq. § 438; Thompson v. -Hudson,L. R. 4 H.
L. 1; Coote on Mortgages, 4th ed. 883; Powell on Mortgages, 6th ed. 900; Adams on Equity, 7th ed. 109; Reeves v.
Stipp, 91 Illinois, 609.
5. We come to consider the transaction of the third mortgage, the one for $95,000 in gold. In the settlement of that
loan, which occurred December 19, 1876, the guardian received
in money onl r $11,805.73.
The balance of $53,194.27 was
paid (1) in over-due coupons of the first and second loans,
which were cancelled and surrendered to the guardian; and
(2) in the company's claim of interest upon such over-due coupons, at the rate of nine per cent, after their maturity. The
amount of this interest upon over-due coupons was $7219.27,
which was disallowed, and the loan treated as one in fact
of $87,780.73 only. According to the views already expressed,
the company was not entitled, in the final computation, to interest upon over-due coupons, after their maturity, even at the

UNITED STATES MORTGAGE CO. v. SPERRY.

349

Opinion of the Court.

statutory rate of six per cent per annum. The application to
the county court for leave to make the loan for $95,000 did
not indicate the purpose of the guardian, i4 the settlement of
that loan, to allow interest upon over-due coupons to be taken
up by him. No such question was passed upon by that court,
and if its assent would have authorized the guardian to pay
such interest, no such assent was given. Certainly, the guardian, could not, withou leave of the court, make an allowance
of interest upon past-due coupons that were not negotiable
securities. The court below was, therefore, right in treating
the loan as one only of $87,780.73.
It is contended that this loan was usurious, (Peddicordv.
Connard, 85 Illinois, 102; 1eonard v. Patton, 106 Illinois, 99;
Amundson v. Ryan, 111 Illinois, 506,) and that the whole
interest on it was, for that reason, forfeited under the statute
of Illinois, which allows parties to stipulate for any rate of
interest for money loaned, not exceeding ten per cent per
annum, but which, also, provides: "5. No person or corporation shall, directly or indirectly, accept or receive, in money,
goods, discounts or thing in action or in any other way, any
greater sum or greater value, for the loan, forbearance or discount of any money, goods or thing in action, than as above
prescribed. 6. If any person or corporation in this State shall
contract to receive a greater rate of interest or discount than
10 per cent upon any contract, verbal or written, such person
or corporation shall forfeit the whole of said interest sQ contracted to be received, and shall be entitled only to recover
the principal sum due to such person or corporation." The
ground of this contention is, that nine per cent on $95,000 for
the full term of the-ifn, seven years, $59,850, increased 'by
the $7219.27 included in the principal sum, in all, $67,069.27,
would be in excess of ten per cent interest, for that term, on
the amount really loaned by the company. We do not concur in the view taken by the appellee. If the county court
had authorized the guardian, in the settlement of the $95,000
loan, to allow interest upon interest, and make the interest,
thus increased, a principal sum to draw interest, a different
question would have been presented; for it is the settled doc-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

trine of the Supreme Court of Illinois that an agreement made
after interest is due to make it a principal sum does not render
the transaction usurious. Iawora v. Iluling, 87 Illinois, 23 ;
Tayer v. Star .Xining Co., 105 Illinois, 540, 553; McGovern
v. Union Atut. Life -Ti. Co., 109 Illinois, 151; Gilmore v.
Bissell, 124 Illinois, 488; Drutry v. Wolfe, 25 N. E. Rep. 626.
In the case of Gilmore v. Bissell, above cited, the court said:
"This was a bill to -foreclose a mortgage. The only defence
relied upon was usury.

.

.

.

This note was secured by

mortgage on the premises in controversy. On the 28th day
of August, 1878, no interest having been paid on the note,
Finley required the parties to pay the debt or renew the note.
They concluded to renew. In computing the amount due, the
agent of Finley charged on the interest due, from the time it
became due to the date of renewal, interest at six per cent per
annum. This was added to the interest due and the principal, which all amounted to the sum of $1350, for which a
new note and mortgage were given. The interest on the
interest included in the mortgage amounted to $12.50, as is
claimed by the defendants. The addition of this amount to
the debt and the agreement to pay it, it is insisted, rendered
the transaction usurious. We do not concur in this view. The
mortgagors had agreed to pay the interest on the mortgage
debt annually, and it was their duty to observe that agreement; but they had failed to pay, as the interest each year
became due. When the time, however, came to renew the
debt, the mortgagors had the right, if they saw proper, to
redeem their agreement and pay interest on the interest; and
their agreement to pay that interest was not illegal nor did it
render the transaction usurious. Wh-?Tvas done was but the
performance of a contract made by the parties, which they
had the'right to do. If authority was needed to sustain the
view of the circuit and appellate courts, Hawortl v. Huling,
87 Illinois, 23, is conclusive of the question made." But the
couity court did not authorize the guardian of Kingsbury to
allow interest upon interest when making the settlement in
respect to the third loan. It only authorized him to borrow
$95,000 in gold, or its equivalent in currency. But, on the

UN1TED STATES MORTGAGE CO. v. SPERRY.

351

Opinion of the Court.

settlement of the loan, he received only $87,780.73, and wrongfully permitted the company to retain the $7219.27 in payment of interest upon interest, because he, in good faith,
believed that it was entitled to such interest. There was no
contract, within the meaning of the statute, that the compahy should receive usurious interest, for no such contract
was attempted to be authorized by the county court. In
fact, the allowance by the guardian of interest upon interest
was under a mistaken view of the obligation of the coupons
in that regard. The remedy for the wrongful retention of the
$7219.27 out of the amount the Afortgage Company agreed to
lend is to treat the loan as one for only $87,780.73, making
the calculation of interest on the principal sum on that basis,
and not to forfeit the interest on the sum actually received by
the guardian from the company.
6. It is contended that the fortgage Company could not
demand interest, after Kingsbury reached his majority, at a
rate.in excess of six per cent. The argument made in support
of this proposition is that, as the guardian could not, under
the statute, have created a debt, secured by mortgage, that
did not mature- at or before the ward's majority, he had no
authority to contract for the payment of interest after the
ward reached full age, and that the rate, after his majority,
must be controlled by the statute, and not by express contract.
We do not concur in this interpretation of the statute. The
guardian had authority, with leave of the court, to make
these loans, and to stipulate for any rate of interest not
exceeding ten per cent. He stipulated for interest at nine per
cent, payable half-yearly in each year until the principal sm
"shall be fully paid." Such a contract, in case of individuals,
capable of acting for themselves, would bind the obligor t,
pay interest on the principal sum at that rate after its maturity.
Phinney v. Baldwin, 16 Illinois, 108; Etnyre.v. McDaniel,
28 Illinois, 201. We perceive no 'reason why the guardian
may not, under the statute, make such a contract, subjecti of
course, to the condition that the maturity of the debt, created
by him, on behalf of the estate, shall not extend beyond, the
ward's minority, and subject, therefore, to the right of the

OCTOBER TERMTY,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

ward, immediately upon attaining full age, to pay off the debt,
or, by agreement with the lender, obtain an extension of
the time of maturity, and a less rate of interest. The statute
does not mean that the ward may retain the benefit of the
contract after he attains full age, and repudiate its provisions.
Of course what is here said must be taken in connection with
the statute of Illinois providing that "judgment recovered
before any court or-magistrate shall draw interest at the rate
of six per centum per annum from the date of the same until
satisfied." Rev. Stats. Illinois, 1874, c. 74, § 3. Where the
debt is merged in a judgment or decree, the contract ceases to
exist, and the rate ,bf interest is thereafter controlled by the
statute. 3fason v. Eakle, Breese, 52; Tindall v. Meeker, 1
Scammon, 137; White v. Haffaker, 27 Illinois, 349; TVayman
v. Cochrane, 35 Illinois, 152; Palmer v. Harris,100 Illinois,
276, 280; Phinney v. Baldwin and Etnyre v. .cDaniel,
above cited; Conn. lut. -Life iA. Co. v. Cushman, 108 U. S.
51, 54.
It results that the decree below must be reversed as to that
part which allowed only $6963.07 as interest to December 15,
1885, on the third loan. It should have allowed interest on
$87,780.73, the real amount of that loan, at the rate of nine
per cent per annum to the date to which, as above, the calculation was made, and interest after that date at the statutory

rate of six per cent. In that respect, and to that extent only,
the decree must be modified.
The decree is reversed, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings consistent with this opinion.

