MILLER v. CLARK.

1223

Counsel for Parties.

These cases are cited by appellees together with Pryer v. Gribble, L. R. 10 Oh. 534; Tebkntt v. Potter,4 Hare, 164; Askew v.
Xilllngton, 9 Hare, 65. For&yth v. ]ifanston, 5 Madd. 78, Wood
v. Rows, 2 Bligh, 595, 617, Rowe v. Wood, 1 Jac. & Walk. 315,
337, and Tebbutt v. Potter, 4 Hare, 164, were referred to in
A8kew v. 3lillington; and Vice Chancellor Turnef held, where
the agreement of compromise went beyond the ordinary range
of the court in the existing suit, and the right to enforce the
agreement in that suit was disputed, that the proper course for
proceedings to enforce it was by bill for specific performance,
and not by motion or petition in the original suit to stay the
proceedings, and he thought this must necessarily be so where
the agreement itself was disputed. But, under the circumstances, we have already held that the petitioners' case did
not fail upon the merits, and as all parts of the agreement fell
within the range of the suits, and appellants did not dispute
the form of proceeding, we are of opinion that the decrees
cannot bo reversed upon this ground. They are therefore
Affirmed.

M]LLER v. CLARK.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.
No. 1366.

Submitted January 19, 1891. -Decided

February 2, 1891.

Where the interest of a plaintiff, whose bill in equity was dismissed on the
merits by the Circuit Court, in the subject matter of the suit, did not
exceed $5000, her appeal to this court was dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

MOTION to dismiss or affirm.

The case is stated in th6

opinion.
.Mr. William B. Stoddard for the motion.
Mr. ,..X. Buokngham, and Mr. Simeon E. Baldwin opposing.

OCTOBER TERY, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.
Mn. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

On or about the 14th of April, 1887, Mrs. Irene Clark, of
Milford, New Haven County, Connecticut, died, leaving a will

which contained the following provisions: (1) She gave to
her husband, Bela Clark, all of her household furniture, including beds and bedding, pictures and silver-plated ware; (2)
She gave to her grandniece, Martha A. Buckingham, and to
five other persons, one of whom was Emma J. Clark, the wife
of Albertus N. Clark, one, Mary Bell Clark, and one, Ellen C.
Platt, all of her personal estate, including her wearing apparel,
to be equally divided between them; and (3) She appointed
Albertus N. Clark to be her executor. This will was duly admitted to probate in the proper court on the 16th of April,
1887, and Albertus N. Clark qualified as executor. The inventory of the estate showed that she had $7509.83 in cash,
deposits in savings banks, and bank stock; $191.30 in household goods; and $48.50 in wearing apparel.
Martha A. Buckingham, who had become Martha A. Miller
by marriage, a citizen of Iowa, filed a bill in equity, on the
3d of January, 1889, in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Connecticut, against Emma J. Clark, Mary
Bell Clark, Ellen C. Platt and Albertus N. Clark, citizens of
Connecticut. The bill sets forth the death of Irene Clark, her
will and its admission to probate, and the qualifying of Albertus N. Clark as executor. It further.alleges that the deceased
left, as a part of her estate, $4500 and accrued interest, deposited in the Connecticut Savings Bank of New Haven, Connecticut; that such sum was evidenced by three bank-books, one in
the name of Ellen C. Platt, one in the name of Mary Bell
Clark, and one in the name of Emma J. Clark, each of which
books represented the deposit of the sum of $1500 and accrued
interest; that such books were in the possession of Irene Clark
at the time of her death, and came into the possession of
Albertus N. Clark, as executor, who, as such executor, was
rightfully entitled to the possession of them and to such depQsits of money; that he wrongfully parted, or was intending
to part, with the possession of such books and deliver them

MILLER v. CLARK.
Opinion of the Court.

respectively to the three parties in whose names they stood;
that such books were then wrongfully in the possession of said
parties; that the money represented by them was, at the time
the executor made his inventory, and also now, in said Connecticut Savings Bank; that he had wrongfully neglected to
include in his inventory the said $4500; and that that sum is
wrongfully withheld from said estate.
The prayer of the bill is for a decree compelling the three
other defendants to turn over to the executor the said bankbooks, and ordering him to receive them and the money 'deposited in the Connecticut, Savings Bank, and to includp, thie said
sum of $4500 and accrued ihterest as assets of the estate of
Irene Clark, and to amend his inventory so as to include the
same, and to make final disposition of said money according
to the provisions of the will of the deceas.ed. An answer on
oath is waived. The defendants- joined' in a demurrer to the
bill, which was overruled; and they then joined in an answer,
to which there was a replication, and proofs were taken.
The court, held by Judge Shipman, entered a decree dismissing the bill. The court (40 Fed. Rep. 15) decided the case in
favor of the defendants on the merits, the opinion holding
that, on the facts proved, the gifts of the moneys to the three
female defendants were valid as gifts inter vivos, and were
accepted by the donees during the lifetime of the testatrix.
The plaintiff has appealed to this court. The amount represented by each of the three bank-books, on the 15th of January,
.1889, did not exceed the sum of $1792.61, the aggregate of
the three being $5377.83. The defendants now move to dismiss the appeal, for want of jurisdiction, because the matter
in dispute as to each of the defendants other than the executor
does not exceed the sum or value of $5000. United with it is
a motion to affirm.
We are of opinion that the appeal must be dismissed, on the
ground that the interest of tile plaintiff does not exceed $5000.
As the total amount involved is only $5377.83, and the interest of the plaintiff in that sum is, under the will, only onesixth thereof, or 8896.301, this court has no jurisdiction of her
dismis8ed.
-Apveal
appeal.
VOL. cxxxvI-1

