OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

time exceptions to rulings made at the trial. PacificExpress Co.
v. -Malin,132 U. S. 531, 538. So, although one of the instructions asked by the defendants, and refused, relates to the effect
on the instrument of the insolvency of the grantor therein,
it may have been refused because already fully given in the
general charge. For these reasons there is nothing in respect
to the instructions, either those given or refused, which can
now be considered.
Another error alleged is, that the court permitted H. D.
:McDonald, one of the counsel for plaintiffs, to testify that he
was present at the time of the execution of the chattel mortgage, and to state what transpired at that time. The parties
present at that interview were the mortgagor and certain of
the creditors, and the interview was held with a view of obtaining from the mortgagor the security which was in fact given.
M[cDonald was present both as a creditor and as attorney for
the creditors. It is objected that communications to an attorney are confidential, and that he can neither be compelled nor
permitted to disclose them as a witness; but the creditors
whose counsel he was did not object to his testimony, and, as
stated, he was present both as party and counsel. Under
these circumstances, we see no error in the admission of his
testimony.
These are the substantial matters presented for our consideration, and in them we find no error. The judgment, therefore, will be
_______Affirmed.

BENT v. THOMPSON.
APFEAL Fom TH

sUPREm

COURT

OF TiE TERRrroRY

OW

Mw Mxico.
1282. Submitted Janinry 7, 1891. -Decided
EWo.

January 26, 1891.

Under the laws of the Territory of New Mexico, a judgment of a probate
court, in 1867, admitting a will to probate, cannot be annulled by the
same court, in a proceeding instituted by an heir more than twenty years

BENT v. THOMPSON.
Opinion of the Court.
after the judgment was rendered and more than four years after the heir
became of age.
Under the "laws of Velarde," which, under the provisions of the Kearny
Code, remained in force in that Territory until modified by statute, the
practice and procedure of the probate courts were matters of statutory
regulation, the probate judge had jurisdiction to admit wills to probate
by receiving the evidence of witnesses, and his judgment was valid, and,
although reviewable on appeal, was conclusive unless appealed from and
reversfa.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr. E. T. Wells, -Y. Ii. P. XoPeal, -Yr. Caldwell Yeaman, _1r. Benjamin F. Butler and -M'. 0. D. Barr tt for
appellant.
.Mr.Frank Springer for appellees.
MR. JusTic.E BLATcFomoD. delivered the opinion of the court.

THIs is an appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court of
the Territory of New Mexico. The opinion of that court is
reported as Bent v. Thompson, 23 Pac. Rep. 234. In connection therewith, that court made and filed a statement of facts
in substance as follows:
Alfred Bent died on the 9th of December, 1865, leaving as
his only heirs dt law his widow, Guadalupe Bent, and three
sons, namely, Charles Bent, William Bent, (the appellant,) also
sometimes called Julian Bent, and Alberto Silas Bent. Charles
Bent arrived at his majority on the 26th of April, 1881;
William Bent on the 31st of May, 1883; and Alberto Silas
Bent on the 20th of October, 1885. The widow was the
mother of the above-named three children. She presented to
the probate judge of Taos County, in the Territory of New
Mexico, a last will and testament which she claimed to be, and
which purported to be, the last will and testament -of said
Alfred Bent, executed December 6, 1865, the terms of which
are not material. On the 6th of MIVarch, 1867, this will was
proved, approved and ordered to be recorded, by the said probate judge, as the last will and testament of the said Alfred
Bent, the record of the probate court on that day being in

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

these words, the judge of probate, the clerk, and a deputy
-sheriff being named as present: "The administrators of the
estate of Alfred Bent, deceased, presented the will of said
deceased for approval; the court examined said will and the
witnesses in it mentioned, and finding it correct according to
law approved it and ordered that it be recorded in this office."
The said Guadalupe, has since intermarried with one George
W. Thompson. No appeal or other proceedings in regard to
the will or its probate were had, so far as the record discloses,
until August 12, 1887, when the appellant filed his petition
in the probate court of Taos County, for the re-probate of
the will and the setting aside of the record of its former
,probate. At the time such petition was filed, more than
twenty years had elapsed since the will was probated and
recorded, and the petitioner had arrived at his majority more
than four years prior to the filing of said petition, which was
the commencement of this proceeding. The record does not
disclose whether or not Charles Bent, William Bent and
Alberto Silas Bent were summoned to be present at the time
the will was probated in 1867, but does show that Guadalupe
Bent, widow of the decedent and mother of the children, was
a party to the proceeding.
Guadalupe Thompson, Alberto Silas Bent, Charles Bent, the
Mfaxwell Land Grant Company and the Maxwell Land Grant
and :Railway Company appeared in the proceeding as respondents, and, on the 7th of September, 1887, the probate court
made a decree declaring null and void the probate of March
6, 1867, and declaring further that the paper writing so pro'posed by said Guadalupe Thompson ag the last will of Alfred
Bent wasnyot such last will, and ordering that it be rejected
and the record thereof annulled.
Among the grounds of objection filed in the probate court
by thl6 Maxwell Land Grant Company, and the Maxwell Land
.Gra~pt and Railway Company, to its action in reopening the
matter of the probate, were the following, called "third" and.
"fourth:" "Be&,use said petitioner has not made his appli-cation, if he had the right to do so, within a reasonable time
after the'forme-P probate of said will. Because this court and

-

BENT v. THOMPS01T.

1
-117

Opinion of the Court.

judge thereof has no right or authority to disprove the acts of
his predecessor done in his official capacity more than twenty.
years sin6e or at any other time, the record thereof- having
during all that time remained in full force and effect and
other parties having acquired rights thereon on the faith of
the same."
The two companies took a, appeal to the District Court
sitting within and for the county of Taos, from the judgnent
of the probate court, assigning, among other reasons of appeal,
the following: "6th. Because neither the probate court nor
the probaie judge had jurisdiction to entertain the said petition
or grant the prayers thereof. 7th. Because neither said probate court nor said probate judge could inquire into the validity of the acts of the probate court or probate judge done at
a regular term of the piobate court more than twenty years
prior to the filing of said petition of William Bent." The
District Court sustained the grounds'of appeal above specified,
and declared null and void, and vacated, set aside, and held
for naught the proceedings of the probate court of September
7, 1887. From this judgment William Bent appealed to the
Supreme Court of the Territory. That court affirmed the
judgment of the District Court, and entered a judgment. dismissing the petition, and declaring null and? void, vacatin&.,
setting aside, and holding for naught the proceedings of the\
probate court of Taos County had in September, 1887. Wil\
liam Bent has appealed to this court.
In its opinion, the Supreme Court discusses the question o
probating a will in common form and in solemn form, in view
of the fact that the petitioner demanded a re-probate of the.
will in solemn form, and that the opposing parties contended
that the probate of a will was a purely statutory proceeding
in New Mexico, and that its laws did not recognize the double
form of proibating wills nor require notice to heirs or legatees.
The complaint of the petition'.was, that neither the petitiotier,
nor Charles Bent, ior Alberto Silas Bent, had any notice -of
the intention to present the will for probate, and were not
present or heard. The Supreme Court held that the civil ]a k
was in force in New Mexico, and. it, examined the provisions

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

thereof in regard to proving a will, and arrived at the conclusion that any person interested could have a will probated,
without notice to the heirs or other interested parties, it being
required only that witnesses should be summoned, and only
one form of probate being prescribed; that, by the Kearny
Code of 1846, the prior "la w s of Velarde," in relation to the
execution and proving of wills and the administration of the
estates of deceased persons, dating back, to 1790, were continued in force; that, by section 17 of the act of January 12,
1852, (Laws of 1851-2, p. 356; Compiled Laws of New Mexico
of 1884, sec. 1393,) authority was given to probate judges, in
their respective counties, to "qualify" or probate wills, "by
receiving the evidence of the witnesses who were present at
the time of making the same, and all other acts in relation to
the investigation of the validity thereof ;" that, by the act of
January 26, 1861, (Laws of 1860-1, p. 62; Compiled Laws,
sees. 1446-1449,) it was provided as follows: "No judge of
probate shall have the power to declare any will, codicil, or
any other testamentary disposition, to be null and void under
the pretext of the want of the solemnities prescribed by the
laws of this Territory by the testator making such disposition ;"
that the second section of the same act provided, in substance,
that, when a will was presented for probate, if the probate
judge should doubt whether it ought to be approved or not;
he should return the will immediately to the person who presented it for probate, noting on the foot of it his reasons for
refusing approval ;- that the third section of the same act provided that it should be the duty of the person to whom the
'will was returned to present the same at the next regular
term of the: District Court of the county, whose duty it was
made to examine into the matter and declare by its decision
whether the will was valid or void, and then' return it to the
party; and that there was a proviso to the fourth section of
the act, reading as follows: "That any proceedings had by
said judges of probate not in conformity with the provisions
of this act shall be declared null and of no effect by the
District Court, and all at the cost of the said probate judges."
The Supreme Court. declares that such was the state of the

BENT v. THOMPSON.
Opinion

Gf

119

the Court.

law of the Territory at the time the will was executed and
probated and at the time Alfred Bent died; that, in Browning
v. Browning, 9 Pac. Rep. 677, it had held that the common.
law was not introduced into the Territory by the organic act,
except in a very limited degree; that even in 1876, when the
common law was formally adopted as the basis of the jurisprudence of the Territory, it was the common law "as recognized in the United States" that was adopted, that is, "the
common law, or lex non, scripta,and such British statutes of
a general nature, not local to that kingdom, nor in conflict
with the Constitution or laws of the United States nor of this
Territory, which are applicable to our condition and circumstances, and which were in force at the time of our separation
from the mother country;" that it was not intended, by the
adoption of the common law in 1876, to repeal the statute
laws of the Territory, but only such portions of the common
law were adopted as did not conflict with such statute laws;
that the statute laws governing probate courts and defining
the manner in which wills should be probated in the Territory.
remained in force until modified by the act of 1889, and were
the basis of the jurisdiction and authority of the -probate
courts; that the probate of a will in the manner prescribed by
the statute was conclusive, and must be recognized. and admitted in all courts as valid, so long as such probate stands;
and that, as it appeared by the record that the will was probated as required by law, by the mother of the petitioner, who
was an interested party, more than twenty years prior to the
filing of his petition in the probate court, and that the petitioner delayed filing his petition for more than four years
after he attained his majority, and as the record stated that
the probate court examined the will and the witnesses mentioned in it, and found it coriect according to law, approved it
and ordered it to be recorded in the probate office, and as, by
the statute of New M exico, (Compiled'Laws of 18S4, secs.
1869, 1881,) an infant was allowed one year after the removal
of his disabilities to assert his rights, except as to real estate,
in which case the period was extended to three years, the
petitioner had no rights in the premises and no standing in
court at the time he instituted the proceeding.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

The only question presented for consideration is whether,
under the laws of the Territory o- New Mexico, a judgment
of a probate court in that Territory admitting a will to probate can be annulled by the same court in a proceeding instituted by an heir more than twenty years after the original
judgment was rendered and more than four years after the
heir became of age.
The provisions of the laws of New Mexico applicable to
proceedings such as those involved in the present case, which
were in force at the date of the pfobate in 1867, were as follows, as contained in the Compiled Laws of 1884:
"1§562. The several probate judges shall have exclusive
original jurisdiction in all cases relative to the probate of last
*ills and testaments: The granting letters testamentary and
of administration, and the repealing the same;

.

.

.

to

hear and determine all controversies respecting wills, the right
Y
of executorship, administration, or guardianship;
Kearny Code, 1846.
"§ 563. Appeals from the judgment of the probate court
shall be allowed to the District Court in the same manner,
and subject to the same restriction as in case of appeals from
the District to the Supreme Court." Kearny Code, 1846.
"§ 1393. Probate judges, in their respective counties, are
authorized to qualify wills, by-receiving the evidence of the
witnesses who were present at the time of making the same,
and all other acts in relation to the investigation of the validity thereof." Act of January 12, 1852.
"1§1365. The laws heretofore in force concerning descents,
cjistributions, wills, and testaments, as contained in the treatises on these subjects written by Pedro Murillo de Lorde,
[Velarde] shall remain in force so far as they are in conformity with the Constitution of the United States, and the statute
laws in force for the time being." Kearny Code, 1846.
The following four sections were enacted January 26,
1861: •
"§ 1446. No judge of probate shall have the power to declare any will, codicil, or any other testamentary disposition
to be null and void under the pretext of the want of the solem-

BENT v. THOMPSON.
Opinion of the Court.

nities prescribed by the laws of this Territory by the testator
making such disposition.
"1§1447. *When any probate judge shall doubt whether any
testamentary disposition as those mentioned in section 1446,
ought to be approved on account of the want of any solemnity as aforesaid, in case that such should be the opinion of
any judge of probate, he shall immediately return to the person who may have applied for the approval of such document,
the testament, codicil, or any other testamentary disposition,
which may have been placed in his hands for the approval
thereof, noting at the foot of said document the positive reasons on which he founds his opinion for refusing his approval.
"§ 1448. It shall be the duty of any person to whom may
have been returned a document, such as are mentioned in this
act, to present the same to the District Court of their respective county at the first regular term of said court; and it shall
be legal for said court to examine such d6cuments, together
with the observations submitted by the probate judge who
may have refused his approval; and it shall be the duty of the
said District Court, at the same term, to declare the validity
or nullity of such documents, and to return the same, after
making its decision, to the party interested.
"§ 1449. If, in the judgment of any probate judge of this
Territory, any will, codicil, or any other testamentary disposition does not merit his approval, he shall return the same to
the prty interested, as required in section 1447; but in this
case the probate judge shall grant letters of administration to
the person or persons appointed as testamentary executor in
said documents in prefetence to any other person who mty
also solicit them: Provided, That any proceedings had by
said judges of probate not in conformity with the provision
of this act shall be declared null and of no effect by the Dis:
trict Court, and all at the cost of the said probate judges."
No further change in the probate laws was made until 1889.
In addition to the foregoing, may be mentioned the follow-.
ing, by which all laws in force in New Mexico touching wills,
if any, additional to those contained in Velarde's treatise, were
continued in force until supplanted by legislation:

OCTOBER TERAI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

"All laws heretofore in force in this Territory, which are
not repugnant to, or inconsistent with, the Constitution of the
United States, and the laws thereof, or the statute laws in
force for the time being, shall be the rule of action and decision in this Territory." Kearny Code, 1846, Tit. Laws, sec. 1;
found in Compiled Laws of 1884-, p. 114.
This section was substantially reenacted by the act of July
14, 1851, and again in the Compiled Laws of 1865, p. 512
(Chaper LXXII, see. 6), but was omitted by the compilers
from the Compiled Laws of 1884, on the ground that in their
opinion it was "obsolete and out of date." Compiled Laws,
1884, p. 1402, par. 72. The volume of 1884 is, however, only
a compilation of existing law and neither reenacts nor repeals
anything.
The common law was not adopted in New Mexico until
1876, when the following act was passed (Act of January 7,
1876, c. 2, § 2; Compiled Laws, § 1823): "In all the courts of
this Territory, the common law as recognized in the United
States of America shall be the rule of practice and decision."
Upon this act the Supreme Court of New Mexico has held
as follows: "We are therefore of opinion that the legislature
intended, by the language used in that section, to adopt the
common law, or lex non soripta, and such British statutes of a
general nature, not local to that kingdom, or in conflict with
the Constitution or laws of the United States, nor of this Territory, which are applicable to our condition and circumstances,
and which were in force at the time of our separation from
the mother country." Browning v. Browning, 9 Pac. Rep.
677, 684.
In regard to the argument made, that by the provision in
the organic act of New M-exico, declaring that the jurisdiction
of the Probate Courts should be "as limited by law" (Act of
Sept. 9, 1850, § 10, 9 Stat. 449), the practice and procedure of
the common law touching matters of probate came into force
in New Mexico, regardless of any statutory provisions of the
Territory, which view is sought to be supported by a reference
to Ferris v. Higley, 20 Wall. 375, it may be said, that that
case relates only to the jurisdiction and not to the practice of

BENT v. THOINIPSON.
Opinion of the Court.

those courts; and that, in Hornbuckle v. Toombs, 18 Wall. 648,
;50, this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Bradley, said: "From
a review of the entire past legislation of Congress on the subject under consideration, our conclusion is, that the practice,
pleadings, and forms and .modes of proceeding of the Territorial courts, as well as their respective jurisdictions, subject,
as before said, to a few express or implied conditions in the
organic act itself, were intended to be left to the legislative
action of the Territorial assemblies, and to the regulations
which might be adopted by the courts themselves. Of course,
in case of any difficulties arising out of this stat6 of things,
Congress has it in its power at any time to establish such regulations on this, as well as on any other subject of legislation,
as it shall deem expedient and proper."
From an examination of the provisions of the "laws of
Velarde," which under the provisions of the Kearny Code,
remained in force until modified by statute, we are of opinion
that the practice and procedure of the Probate Courts were
matters of statutory regulation; that the probate judge had
jurisdiction to admit wills to probate by receiving the evidence
of the witnesses; and that his judgment was valid and, although
reviewable on appeal, was conclusive unless appealed from and
reversed.
It is to be remarked that, in the findings of fact made by
the Supreme Court of the Territory, it is not stated that William Bent was not present at the probate and was not cited
to appear, but it is stated only that the record does not disclose whether or not he was summoned to be present.
Sections 1860, 1863, and 1869 of the Compiled Laws of
:New Mexico of 1884 are as follows:
"§ 1860. The following suits or actions may be brought
within the time hereinafter limited, respectively, after their
causes accrue, and not afterwards, except when otherwise specially provided."
"§ 1863. Those founded upon accounts and unwritten contracts, those brought for injuries to property, or for the conversion of personal property, or for relief upon the ground of
fraud, and all other actions not herein otherwise provided for
and specified, within four years."

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

"§ 1869. The times limited for the bringing of actions
herein shall, in favor of minors and persons insane or under
any legal disability, be extended so that they shall have one
year from and after the termination of such disability within
which to commence said actions."
It was held by the Supreme Court of New Mexico, in
Browning v. Browning, 9 Pac. Rep. 677, 684, 685, that, the
limitations of the statute of January 23, 1880, of New Mexico, of which those three sections are a part, applied to proceedings in the Probate Court. We think this construction
was correct, and that the present suit is an action to annul a
former judgment of the Probate Court. Such is the character
of the judgment declaring the former probate to be null and
void.
Moreover, by sections 1446-144-9 of the Compiled Laws,
before quoted, the course of procedure of the probate judge
was distinctly defined, and he had no power to declare the
will void. On the contrary, his proceeding, not being in conformity with the provisions of the act of January 26, 1861,.
was, as declared by that act, null and of no effect.
Judgment afflmed.

CONSOLIDATED

ROLLER MILL COMPANY
WALKER.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES

.

FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 1485. Submitted January9, 1891.-Decided January 26, 1891.

Claim 1 of letters patent No. 228,525, granted June 8, 1880, to William D.
Gray, for an improvement in roller grinding-mills, namely, "1. In a
roller grinding-mill, the combination of the counter-shaft provided with
pulleys at both ends and having said ends mounted in vertically and
independently adjustable bearings, the rolls C E having pulleys connected
by belts with one end of the counter-shaft, and the rolls D F independently connected by belts with the other end of the counter-shaft, as
shown'," is invalid, because, in view of the state of the art, it does- not
embody a patentable invention.

