SUPERIOR CITY v. RIPLEY.
Statement of the Case.

SUPERIOR CITY v. RIPLEY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 1322. Submitted January 6,1891.-Decided January 26, 1891.

An acceptance by a municipal corporation of a draft, directing it to pay to
the order of the payee a sum of money due to the drawer for work and
labor done and materials furnished under a contract, constitutes a new
contract between the acceptor and the payee which. the latter may enforce
in the courts of the United States, if he be a citizen of a different State
from the acceptor, and if the amount be sufficient to give jurisdiction,
notwithstanding the drawer and the acceptor are both citizens of the
same State, and notwithstanding the provisions in the act of August 13,
1888,25 Stat. 433, c. 866, § 1.
If a contract with a municipal corporation calls for payment for work and
labor and materials furnished under it in city warrants, and the municipality accepts a draft for a sum in money from the contractor in favor
of the payee or order, without specifying that it is payable in such
warrants, it is not necessary to allege, in an action on the acceptance,
that demand was made payable in such warrants and was refused.

THIs was a writ of error to reverse a judgment of the Circuit
Court for the District of Nebraska in favor of the defendants
in error, upon certain orders accepted by the city of Superior.
The case was practically decided in overruling a demurrer to
the ptition, which set forth, in substance, the following facts:
1. That the plaintiffs, Ripley and Bronson, were citizens of
the State of Missouri, and the defendant, the city of Superior,
a municipal corporation of the State of Nebraska.
2. That under an ordinance, regularly adopted and co'nfirmed by a popular vote, the city entered into a contract with
S. K. Felton & Co. for the construction of a system of waterworks for the sum of $25,000. That,. in pursuance of such
contract, Felton & Co. built and completed the water-works,
which were accepted by the city on. the 29th day of April,
1889; and that upon the contract price there was paid $5000,
October 13, 1888, and $3681, December 14, 1888.
. 3. That S. K. Felton & Co. became indebted to the plain-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

tiffs for water-pipe, hydrants and other material sold and
delivered to them by the plaintiffs, and used in said waterworks, in the sum of $5750, for which Felton & Co. executed
the following order:
N-EB., Dec. 24th, 1888.
"Upon final completion and acceptance of water-works by
the city of Superior, Neb., pay to the order of Ripley and
Bronson five thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars, and
charge same to contract price and on contract for erection of
said water-works.
"(Signed)
S. K; FELTow & Co.
"(Addressed:) To the mayor and city council,
"City of Superior, Superior, Neb."
"SuPERioR,

4. That said order was presented at a meeting duly called
of Ae city council, and accepted by a vote of said meeting,
and in pursuance thereof the mayor and city clerk, under the
seal of the city, endorsed and accepted the said order as
follows:
"The city of Superior, Neb., hereby accepts the within
written order, provided the water-works are fully completed
according to plans and specifications and are duly accepted by
the city, and then in that event the city of Superior will withhold from the final payment of contract price that may be due
S. K. Felton & Co. the amount of this acceptance, or such part
thereof as may actually be due said S. K. Felton & Co. thereon,
and will pay over such amount in city warrants to Ripley and
Bronsoi in lieu of S. K. Felton & Co., such amount to be
credited upon said contract price for said water-works as if
the same was paid to S. K. Felton & Co.
"Dated Superior, Neb., Dec. 24th, 1888.
"By order of the city Council.
C. E. AD~ms, -Mayor.
"(City of Superior Cbrporate Seal.) C. E. DAvis, City Clerk."
And thereupon said S. K. Felton & Co. endorsed upon said
order as follows:

SUPERIOR CITY v. RIPLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

We accept and agree to above conditions the day and date
hereof, and that this may be embraced in our contract with
the city of Superior and be part thereof.
"S. K. FELToN & Co.
"Witness : CHAS. E. D±vis."
5. That the water-works were completed by S. K. Felton &
Co., and accepted by the city on the 29th of April, 1889; and
that the city paid to S. K. Felton & Co. a large amount of
money, subsequent to the acceptance of this order, in disregard of plaintiff's rights, and that there has accrued and
become payable to them since said acceptance over $18,000,
whereby the city became liable to the plaintiffs for the amount
of their order.
To this petition the defendant city interposed a demurrer
upon the grounds:
1. That it did not appear from said petition that the Circuit
Court.had jurisdiction of the subject matter of the suit.
2. That the said petition did not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.
The court overruled the demurrer, (41 Fed. Rep. 113,) and,
the defendant not desiring to plead further, rendered judgment for the plaintiffs, in the sum of $6061.87.
fr. John XE.Ragan, .Xr. J. B. Cessna, and .rA. T. F. Buck
for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Clintor Rowell for defendant in error.
Mr. JUSTicE BRoww, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
(1.) In support of its demurrer founded upon the alleged
want of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court, the plaintiff in error
insists that the plaintiffs below obtained their right to bring
suit upon this order by assignment from S. K. Felton & Co.,
who are not alleged to be citizens of any other State than
Nebraska, and hence that the plaintiffs are disqualified to sue,
under the adt of August 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 433, c. 866, § 1,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the first section of which provides that no Circuit or District
Court shall "have cognizance of any suit, except upon foreign
bills of exchange, to recover the contents of any promissory
note or other chose in action in favor of any assignee, or of
any subsequent holder, if such instrument be payable to
bearer, and be not made by any corporation, unless such suit
might have been prosecuted in such court to recover the said
contents if no assignment or transfer had been made."
The action in this case is brought upon an order drawn by
S. K. Felton & Co., in which they direct the city to pay to
the plaintiffs below, a certain sum of money upon the completion and acceptance of certain work undertaken by them
for the city, and charge the same to their contract price. This
order was presented to the corporation and formally accepted,
"provided the water-works are fully completed, according to
plans and specifications, and are duly accepted by the city,"
and the city promised to pay the same in city warrants. This
acceptance was a contract directly between the city and the
plaintiffs below, upon which the city was immediately chargeable as a promissor to the plaintiffs. Nothing is better settled
in the law of commercial paper than that the acceptance of a
draft or order in favor of a certain payee, constitutes a new
contract between the acceptor and such payee, and that the
latter may bring suit upon it without .tracing title from the
drawer. From the moment of acceptance, the acceptor
becomes the primary debtor, and the drawer is only contingently liable, in case of non-payment by the acceptor. Daniel on Negotiable Instruments, § 532; .Fentum v. Pooock,
5 Taunton, 192; Wallace v. JcConnell, 13 Pet. 136. Ever
since the case of Young v. Bryan, 6 Wheat. 146, it has been
the settled law of this court that the Circuit Court has jurisdiction of a suit, brought by the endorsee of a promissory
note against his immediate endorser, whether a suit would lie
against the maker or not, upon the ground as stated by Chief
Justice Marshall, "that the endorsee does not claim through
an assignment. It is a new contract entered into by thE
endorser and endorsee." p. 151. This case was approved in
MAfullen v. Torrance, 9 Wheat. 537; Evans v. Gee, 11 Pet. 80;

SUPERIOR CITY v. RIPLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

and Cofee v. The Planters' Bank of Tennessee, 13 How. 183.
It needs no argument to show that the same rule would apply
as between the acceptor and the payee; and if the latter be a
non-resident of the State, he may bring suit directly against
the acceptor, notwithstanding the drawer of the paper is a
resident of the same State as the acceptor, for the same reason
that the acceptance creates a new contract, to which the drawer
is not a party. Thompson v. Perrine,106 U. S. 589.
The same principle is illustrated in the case of De Sobry v.
Nicholson, 3 Wall. 420, in which it was held that if the
requisite citizenship exist between the immediate parties to a
contract,-the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court cannot be defeated by the fact that another and prior contract, to which
the plaintiff is not a party, is set out as an inducement to the
making of the contract in suit.
So, in 2fanufacturing Co. v. Bradley, 105 U. S. 175, a corporation agreed to pay on a certain date to A, a sum of money,
at a specified rate of interest; and, by an endorsement on the
paper after it matured, further agreed, in consideration of forbearance to a date named, to pay at a higher rate of interest,
to bearer. It was held that the endorsement was a new contract, upon sufficient consideration, and negotiable within the
meaning of the law merchant, and that B, the legal holder of
the paper, was not precluded from suing thereon in the Circuit Court, by the fact that A was a citizen of the same State
as the corporation. In delivering the opinion of the court
Mr. Justice Matth6ws observed: "It is true that the bond, as
originally executed, was payable to Gayer, receiver, simply,
and was not negotiable; but the subsequent endorsement was
a new and complete contract, upon a distinct and sufficient
consideration, and, being payable to bearer, is negotiable by
delivery merely." p. 180.
(2.) In support of its second ground of demurrer, the defendant city further insists that inasmuch as the acceptance of the
city was a promise to pay in city warrants,the petition should
allege that the plaintiffs demanded payment in warrants, and
that the city refused to give them warrants for the order.
The order, however, was to pay a certain sum in dollars and
VOL. cxxxvni-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

cents, and the promise was to pay the amount of the acceptance, and if payment had been made or tendered, either in
current money or in city warrants, it was matter of defence,
and the burden of proof was upon the defendant. No allegation in the petition that payment in city warrants was
demanded and refused, was necessary to constitute a complete
cause of action, and it is only after a failure to make out a
primafacie case in the petition, that a general demurrer will
lie. Wallace v. .Me Connell, 13 Pet. 136 ; Brabstor v. Gibson, 9
How. 263, 279. As the warrants were a mere method of payment in money, for the convenience of the city in carrying on
its financial business, it may be treated as a promise to pay in
money. Babcock v. Goodrich, 47 California, 488. If the
promise were to pay in bank notes or other representatives of
money, it would scarcely be claimed that it was not a promise
to pay in money, or that any special demand of bank notes
was necessary to be averred. There is an allegation in the
petition, that, though often requested, the said city of Superior
has not paid to plaintiffs the amount of said order and acceptance, or any part thereof, and that there is now due and
unpaid upon the same, the entire amount thereof. We think
this is a sufficient allegation of non-payment afid refusal to
pay to render the city chargeable in this form of action.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must be
.Ajrmed.

SIOUX CITY STREET !iAILWAY COMPANY
v. SIOUX CITY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 1228. Submitted January 8,1891.-Decided January 26, 1891.
On December 12, 1883, the city of Sioux City, in Iowa, by ordinance, conferred on a street railway company, incorporated December 6, 1883,
under the general laws of Iowa, the right of operating a street railway,
with the requirement that it should pave the street between the rails. Subsequently, under an act of 1884, the city. by ordinance, required the com-

