OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

WILLIAMS v. UNITED 'STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF NEVADA.
No. 157. Argued January 21, 22,1891.-Decided March 2,1891.

If, through inadvertence and mistake, a wrong description is placed in a
conveyance of real estate by an individual, a court of equity would have
jurisdiction to interfere and restore to the party the title which he never
intended to convey; and it has a like jurisdiction, when a wrong description from a like cause gets into a patent of public land.
If the allegations of a bill point to fraud and wrong, and equally to inadvertence and mistake, and the latter be shown, the bill is sustainable,
although the former charge may not be fully established.
The provision in the second section of the act of June 16, 1880, 21 Stat. 287,
c. 245, requiring the approval of the Secretary of the Interior to the act
of the state authorities of Nevada in selecting lands under the grant
made by that act, while it did not vest in him an arbitrary authority, to
be exercised at his discretion, empowered him to withhold his approval
when it became necessary to do so, in order to prevent such a monstrous
Injustice as was sought to be accomplished by these proceedings.

ON June 16, 1880, Congress passed an act, of which the
following are the first two sections:
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States of America in

Congress assembled, That

there be, and are hereby, granted to the State of Nevada two
million acres of land in said State in lieu of the sixteenth and
thirty-sixth sections of land heretofore granted to the State of
Nevada by the United States: Provided, That the title of the
State and its grantees to such sixteenth and thirty-sixth
sections as may have been sold or disposed of by said State
prior to the passage of this act shall not be changed or vitiated
in consequence of or by virtue of this act.
"SEC. 2. The lands herein granted' shall be selected by the
state authorities of said State' from any unappropriated, nonmineral public land in said State, in quantities not less than
the smallest legal subdivision; and when selected in conformity with the terms of this act, the same shall be duly
certified to said State by the commissioner of the general

WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

land office, and approved by the Secretary of the Interior."
21 Stat. 287, c. 245.
On May 3, 1883, the lands in controversy were certified to
the State of Nevada under this act. This certification was
based on an application by the State, formally executed July
29, 1882. On May 20, 1882, the appellant applied to the
proper state officers to purchase these larlds. On February 2,
1884, in pursuance of this application, a contract was entered
into between the State and the appellant for the sale to him
of the lands in controversy; he, at the time, paying one-fifth
of the purchase money, and contracting to pay the balance in
subsequent annual instalments. On December 18, 1884, this
bill was filed by the United States in the Circuit Court for the
District of Nevada against the appellant alone. Generally
speaking, the scope of the allegations in the bill is that the
lands were improperly certified to the State; that in equity it
had no title, and its contract with the appellant transferred
nothing to him ; and the prayer was for the canc6llation of the
contract between the appellant and the State of Nevada., and
an adjudication that the appellant had no title or interest in
such lands. On November 26, 1886, a decree was entered (30
Fed. Rep. 309) by which the title of appellant in the lands
was divested, and he directed to surrender up to the State of
Nevada, for cancellation, all contracts or agreements he had
with that State for these lands. From such decree appellant
appealed to this court.
ri'. J. -. Redington, (with whom was iXr. John IT Hick.
cox, Jr.on the brief,) for appellant.
Xif. Assistant Attorney General Parkerfor appellees.
MR.JusTIOE BREWEp delivered the opinion of the court.
The first contention of appellant is, that this action could
not be maintained because the State of Nevada was not made
party; it holding the legal title;
Second, that the Circuit Court erred in finding that there
was fraud or wrong, by which the title was passed to the
State of Nevada; and,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Coukt.

Third, that even if there were fraud or wrong in this matter,
the outcome of the proceedings was the necessary one, and
therefore the bill should not have been sustained.
With respect to the first contention: It cannot be doubted
that the certification operated to transfer the legal title to the
State, Frasher v. O'Connor, 115 U. S. 102, nor that the contract between the State and appellant passed to him the equitable title, the legal title being retained by the State, simply
as security for the unpaid part of the purchase money. The
proposition, therefore, is, that where there are outstanding two
interests or titles, held by different parties, the real owner
cannot proceed against either without joining the other; that
,only one action can be maintained to divest these parties of
their separate titles; alad that to that action both adverse
holders must be parties. The proposition is not sound. A
court of equity has jurisdiction to divest either one of the adverse holders of his title, in a separate action. Doubtless the
court has power, when a separate action is instituted against
one, to require that the other party be brought into the suit,
if it appears necessary to prevent wrong and injury to either
party, and to thus fully determine the title in one action; but
such right does not oust the court of jurisdiction of the separate action against either. It has jurisdiction of separate
actions against each of the adverse holders, and there is no
legal compulsion, as a matter of jurisdictional necessity, to the
joinder of both parties as defendants in one action. There
are special reasons why this rule should be recognized in this
case. It may be that the Circuit Court would not have jurisdiction of an action against the State; that an action against
a State, on behalf of the United States; can be maintainable
only in this court; and that when brought in this court no
other party than the State can be made defendant. We do
not decide that these things are so, but suggest the difficulty
which must have presented itself to the counsel for the government, and which justifies a separate suit against the holder
of the equitable title. The State of Nevada might havw-intervened. It did not; doubtless, because it felt it had no real
interest. It was no intentional party to any wrong upon the

WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

general government. If its agency had been used by the
wrong-doer to obtain title from the general government; if,
conscious of no wrong on its part, it had obtained from the
general government the legal title and conveyed it away to
the alleged wrong-doer, it might justly say that it bad no
interest in the controversy, and that it would leave to the
determination of the courts the question of right between the
government and the alleged wrong-doer, and conform its subsequent action to that determination. That certainly is the
dignified and proper course to be pursued by a State, which is
charged to have been the innocent instrumentality and agent
by which a title to real estate has been wrongfully'obtained
from the general government. The jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court over this bill was properly sustained.
The second contention is, that the court erred in finding
that there was fraud or wrong by which the title was taken
away from the general government. The allegations of the
bill are of fraud and wrong, but they also show inadvertence
and mistake in the certification to the State; and it cannot
be doubted that inadvertence and mistake are, equally with
fraud and wrong, grounds for judicial interference to divest
a title acquired thereby. This is equally true, in transactions
between individuals, and in those between the government
and its patentee. If, through inadvertence and mistake, a
wrong description is placed in a deed by an individual, and
property not intended to be conveyed is conveyed, can there
be any doubt of the jurisdiction of a court of equity to interfere and restore to the party the title which he never intended
to convey? So of any other inadvertence and mistake, vital
in its nature, by which a title is conveyed when it ought not
to have been conveyed. The facts and proceedings attending
this transfer of title are fully disclosed in the bill. They point
to fraud and ,wrong,and eqjually to inadvertence and mistake;
and if the latter be shown, the bill is sustainable, although the
former charge against the defendant may not have been fully
established.
For satisfactory answer to this inquiry, a fuller statement of
facts is necessary: On May 19, 1879, defendant made in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

-proper land office of the United States a desert-land entry
-for two hundred and forty acres, including therein the lands
in controversy. 19 Stat. 377, c. 107. On July 26, 1879, he
conveyed to the New Philadelphia Silver Mining Company,
for the sum of five thousand dollars, eighty acres thereof,
described as the east J of southeast I, section 33, township 8,
range 50 east, Nye County, Nevada. The conveyance was
with this warranty: "And the party of the first part agrees
to and with the party of the second part that he has full right
and power to sell and convey the said premises and water
rights, and that they are now free from all incumbrances,
sales or mortgages." Within the succeeding year the grantee
erected a ten-stamp quartz mill on the premises, at the expense
of about fifty-eight thousand dollars. Becoming embarrassed,
this eighty acres, with improvements, passed by sheriff's and
receiver's deeds to Matthiessen and Ward, the title thus passing finally by the 16th of December, 1881. The consideration
of five thousand dollars, named in the original deed, was paid
to Williams. On May 20, 1882, he executed papers for the
relinquishment to the government of his desert-land entry,
and at the same time made application to the State for the
purchase of these lands as agricultural lands. At his instance,
the State, on July 29, 1882, applied to the government for a
certification of these lands. On August 12, 1882, by letter
from the Land Department, cancellation of the desert-land
entry was made on the books of the local land office, and subsequently, as stated, in May, 1883, the lands were certified to
the State, and thereafter the application of Williams for purchase from the State was accepted, and the contract entered
into.
Further, it appears that on June 20, 1881, the receiver of
the Philadelphia company wrote to the commissioner of the
land office, giving notice of the compafly's interest in these
lands, and asking instructions as to steps necessary to protect
its title. This information was followed, on February 10, 1882,
by interview and communication, to the department from the
counsel of Matthiessen and Ward. On April 14, 1882, the
commissioner answered the inquiry of the receiver, informing

WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

him that desert-land claims were not assignable. On May 23
he advised Ward that there was no evidence in his office showing a relinquishment by Williams of the desert-land entry. In
August, 1882, the land register of Nevada, replying to an
inquiry of Matthiessen and Ward, said: "Mr. Williams informed me that he would try and procure the cancellation of
his desert-land entry; we have received no notice as yet of
the cancellation of said entry." As weeks before Williams had
filed relinquishment papers in that office, and the matter of
cancellation, having been referred to Washington, was waiting
response, this communication was obviously deceptive, and
suggests conspiracy between the register and Williams. So
obvious is this, that on September 11, 1882, the commissioner
of the general land office wrote to the register for an explanation. In that letter, after referring to his information to
the agent of Matthiessen and Ward, as above quoted, he adds:
"Upon a cursory examination of the matter it would seem
that the information, if furnished by you as aforesaid, was not
in accordance with the facts in the case and 'misleading in
result, and therefore calculated to create suspicion in the public mind as to the honest administration of your office in matters coming before you for official action. Large and valuable
interests were affected by the relinquishment of Williams, and
the company should have been notified when it was filed in
your office, or, at all events, when it applied to you through
its agent for information. Please explain the matter at once."
On September 6, 1882, an application -ws made on behalf of
Matthiessen and Ward for reinstatement of the desert-land
entry, and a protest against embracing in the State's selection
the eighty acres, heretofore referred to, conveyed by Williams
to the Philadelphia company. This application for reinstatement of the desert-land entry was denied by the land commissioner on February 21, 1883. The application by the
State for this land was at the instance of the appellant, and
the application was included in a list known as "List Number
24." On January 8, 1883, Matthiessen and Ward made, in
due form, an application for the five acres upon which the
buildings were situated, as a mill-site. The application was

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

denied by the land office in. iNevada on the ground that the
land was embraced in the selection theretofore made by the
State of Nevada. Appeal was made to the land office at
Washington, and the appeal papers were received there Janaary 18, 1883. On January 23, Curtis & Burdett, attorneys
for Matthiessen and Ward, appeared in the land office at
,Washingtonand asked to be aavised of any action. Immediately thereafter the officers in the Land Department noted, in
pencil, within brackets, on list 24, against the land in controversy, these words, "mill-site." The effect of this annotation
was to suspend action in respect to these lands until the adverse claim had been investigated and removed. Thereupon
the controversy as to the right to select these lands proceeded
in the department. While this controversy was pending in
the department and undetermined, list 24 was presented for
approval, and the annotation of the words "cmill-site" having
been by some person erased, and there appearing on the face
of the list no controversy as to any of the lands, the certificate
was made in lMay, as heretofore stated. The controversy proceeded in regular order until December, 1883, without any
suspicion on the part of the commissioner of the land office
that any certification of title had been made to any of these
lands or that the controversy was not still open for adjudication. In December, 1883, on discovery of this mistake by the
land commissioner, he telegraphed to the governor of Nevada
to return the approved list, which application was declined, by
telegram, on the advice of the attorney general of the State.
On the 14th of December, 1883, the Secretary of the Interior
telegraphed to the governor of Nqevada, as follows:
"[Received

at Carson, Dec. 14, 4:03 P.m. Dated Washington, D.C.14, 1883.]

"To GovER-o

oF NEvApA, Carson City, .- ev.:

"Has land mentioned in dispatch of Commissioner, of 11th
instant, been sold and deeded, or either? If so, to whom ?'
Unless the list can be returned and corrected I desire to have
proceedings commenced immediately to set aside the certifica,
"RI. M. TELLER, Secretary."
tion.

WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

On the same day the appellant telegraphed as follows :"[Received at Carson, December 14, 4:46 P.m. Dated Washington, December 14, 1883.]

"To GOVERNOR JEWETIr W. ADm.s or W. M. GARRAR:

"Have deed for my State land claim executed immediately.
Give Harry Day money if he has not got it; will remit from
Hot Creek. Don't delay. Answer.
Jos. T. WmIjAws."

On the 15th of December the Secretary of the Interior telegraphed to the State register as follows:
"Tract inadvertently certified while adverse claim was
pending and undecided. Mfuch embarrassment will result to
department if list be not returned as requested."
On the same day he received this answer:
"1 OCAsoT, NEV., -December15, 1883.
"To H. M. TELLER, Waskington, D.C.:

"The land referred to is applied for and contracted to J. T.
Williams, but no patent is yet issued.
J. W. Ainws, Governor."'
These facts make it clear that when list 24 was presented to
the department, and it had received notice of an adverse claim
as to these lands, the ordinary annotation was made on the
list opposite to these lands, to indicate an adverse claim, and
that pending the adjudication of the merits of that claim no
certification would have been made; that by somebody's act,
(and the record does not disclose the party,) this customary
departmental entry of notice was rubbed out; and that thereafter the list, passing through the hands of the various offi-cers of the department, with every mark of approval from the
various subordinate officers, and not challenged as to this controversy, was inadvertently, unintentionally and through mistake, certified to the State of Nevada. Can there be any
doubt that this land was certified through inadvertence and

OCTOBER TERf, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

mistake; and that the Land Department did not intend to
certify it to the state, or approve the selection made by the
State until after the determination of the pending controversy?
Who made the erasure cannot be, from the testimony, determined. The defendant and his attorney in Washington city
each testify that he did not make it or know of its being
made; yet who would make such an erasure, save one interested in having the fact of the contest removed from notice?
The suggestion made by counsel for appellant, that Matthiesgen and Ward caused this to be done in order to lay the
foundation for this bill, when in fact their controversy in the
department had not heen adjudicated as to the right of
the State to make this selection, is so puerile as to inrnsify
the suggestion against the appellant. That Williams had soma
information from within the department is evident from the
fact that on the very day the Secretary telegraphed to the
goveinor of Nevada be telegraphed insisting upon immediate
execution of the deed from the.State- a telegram received at
the capital of the State forty-three minutes after that of the
Secretary. We do not impugn the truthfulness of the a'ppellant or his counsel, in the testimony given by each, "that he
neither made nor knew of the making of this obliteration;"
yet we cannot but be impressed with the conviction that there
was some one in the department employed to look after appellant's interests in this controversy, anid who, without special
direction orauthority, assumed to do that which he thought,
and which would apparently, promote his employer's interests,
to wit, the erasure from this list of any notice of contest or
adverse claim. Of course, if fraud was done by one employed
by appellant, he, thdugh ignorant, must bear the consequences
of that fraud. We do not doubt; what the verdict of a jury
would be, as to a charge of-fraud, under these circumstances ;
but we do not care to place our decision upon this ground.
We rest it upon the incontrovertible fact that through inadvertence and mistake this land was certified to the State.
This brings us to the final contention: That if there had
been no erasure; that .if the contest had been -ad, the lands
must inevitably have b6en certified to the State of Nevada,

WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Couft.

because they were, within the description of the act, "unappropriated, non-mineral, public land," selected by the State;
that the desert-land entry by Williams, in 1879, gave to him
no right which he could sell or transfer; that, therefore, the
deed from him to the Philadelphia company passed nothing as
against the government; that, having failed to reclaim the
land within the time prescribed, his right in the land ceased,
and his cancellation of his desert-land entry was a mere matter of form to clear the face of the record; that at the time
of the selection and application by the State there was no
legal adverse claim; that, therefore, the State had a right to
select it; that having made such selection, it was the duty
of the department to certify the land, and thus transmit the
legal title; and that the government pays. ito attention to
private disputes between parties who 'haV transactions in
respect to public lands before.it parts with jts.title, and before
any right is vested in either of the disputing parties.
In the main, we do not doubt these propositions of law; but
there are certain equitable considerations which the department is authorized to recognize, and when recognized no
court will ever disturb its action. Consider the facts in this
light: Williams had made a desert-land entry; his proposition
by that entry was to reclaim this land by, irrigation; he conveyed by deed a portion of it to the Philadelphia company,
warranting that he had perfect title and right to convey, and
receiving five thousand dollars for this conveyance. On the
faith of it the company ekpends fifty-eight thousand dollars
in improvements. The time for reclamation passes, and he
has failed in his implied duty to the government. With a
view to secure to himself a title which he has once conveyed
with warranty, he schemes to' surrender his desert-land entry
for cancellation, and induce the State to select and obtain
title to the lands as agricultural, non-mineral lands, and then
buy the title thus obtained by-the State. When the department is advised of these facts, it declines to certify the title to
the .State. If all questions of jurisdiction and procedure
were removed, wohld any court issue a mandamus to compel
the officers of the Land Department to certify those lands to

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the State? Would not the equity developed by these facts
forbid the court to issue such an order? The certification
after selection by the State is to be approved by the Secretary
of the Interior. This is no mere formal act. It gives to him
no-mere arbitrary discretion, but it does give power to prevent
such a monstrous injustice as was sought to be accomplished
by these proceedings. It gives the power to the Secretary to
deny this application of the State, and refuse to approve its
selection, and hold the title in the general government until,
within the limits of existing law or by special act of Congress,
a party wlho, misinformed and misunderstanding its rights, has
placed sudh large improvements on the property, shall be
enabled to obtain title from the government.
We would net be misunderstood in respect to this matter.
We do not mean to imply that any arbitrary discretion is vested
in the Secretary; but we hold that the statute requiring approval
by the Secretary of the Interior was intended to vest a discretion in him by which wrongs like this could be righted, and
equitable considerations, so significant and impressive as this,
given full force. It is obvious, it is common knowledge; that
in the administration of such large and varied interests as are
intrusted to the Land Department, matters not foreseen,
equities not anticipated, and'which are therefore not provided
for by express statite, may sometimes irise, and, therefore,
that the Secretary of the Interior is given that superintending
and supervising power which will enable him, in the face of
these unexpected contingencies, to do justice.
The 4ecision of the Circuit Court is right, and must be
Afflrmied.
'Mm. JusTICE GRAY was not present at the argument of this
case, and took no part in its decision.

