OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

corporation as secured knowledge of the process to the corporation, and,the provisions of this statute seem constructed ex
-industriato increase the number of officers or agents, service
upon either of whom would be sufficient. In view of the State
legislation and decisions, service upon the highest officer of
the corporation to be found in the county, and, that officer the
-superintendent there, was within the spirit of the rule and the
intent and meaning of the statute.
The petition for removal did not question the sufficiency of
service, and the state court apparently assumed it to be sufficient, for it allowed but one day to plead to the merits.
Under all the circuijastances, we hold that the application
came too late, and the judgment is, therefore,
AA4-md.

AMS v.

OIOIR.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 1404. Submitted January 12, 1891. -Decided

February 2, 1891.

"Fraud" in the act of Congress, defining the debts from which a bankrupt
is not relieved by a discharge in bankruptcy, means positive fraud, or
-fraud in fact, involving moral turpitude or intentional wrong: citing
and affirming previous decisions to the same point.
A. purchased a lot of high-wines, to be delivered to im upon call, between
certain dates, and to be paid for on each delivery at a named price per
gallon. He made the call at a time when he knew himself to be insol-vent, and with the intent to get possession of the wines and convert
them to his own use without paying for them. They were delivered at
his place of business pursuant to the call, and he shipped part and
attempted to ship the balance, without paying for them; Held, that,
within the meaning of the statute, the debt, in respect of the wines, was
not created until the wines were delivered at his place of business under
the call, or, at least, until he took possession of them without paying for them, and with the intent not to pay for them.

THE

case, as stated by the court, was as follows:

Wilson Ames, the plaintiff in error, a rectifier and wholesale dealer in whiskies and high-wines in the city of Chicago,

AMES v. MOIR.
Statement of the Case.

executed and delivered to Robert :M]oir & Co., distillers and
merchants at Oquawka, Illinois, the following writing, bearing
date June 9, 1870: "I have this day bought of Robert Moir
& Co. one hundred (100) barrels high-wines, ' iron bound,' at
one dollar seven cents ($1.07) per proof gallon. The conditions
of sale are as follows: The buyer can call from 1st July to 20th
of same month by giving three days' notice, and if not called for
by the 20th July the seller has the privilege of delivering up
to the end of July by giving three days' notice; to be delivered
in fifty barrel lots. To insure the fulfilment of this contract
a margin of three hundred dollars will be put up by both
parties."
On the 15th of July, 1870, Ames made a call upon -Phillips
& Carmichael, brokers for Robert Moir & Co., in the city of
Chicago, for the high-wines mentioned in this writing, deliverable on the 18th instant. Shortly before this call the bonded
warehouse of Moir & Co. was burned, destroying the wines
from which they expected to meet any call by Ames. This
made it necessary for the brokers to buy in the Chicago
market, on account of their principal, enough high-wines to
meet the demand of Ames. They obtained for that purpose
fifty barrels of such wines from Conklin & Bro. and fifty from
Lynch & Co., for delivery o:1 the 18th at Ames's place of business in Chicago; and they were so delivered. The delivery
was completed about six o'clock in the afternoon of that day.
In the opinion of the Supreme Court of Illinois in this case,
Ame8 v.. JMoir, 130 Illinois, 582, 590, it is said: "After the
high-wines had been delivered late in the afternoon of July 18,
Ames absented himself from his place of business, and could
not be found by the agents of Moir & Co. to make a demand
of payment for the high-wines. They directed the porter in
charge of Ames's warehouse to take care of the goods until
morning, When they would call for the pay. When the agents
called in the morning Ames was nowhere to be found, and
they found that he had shipped fifty barrels of the high-wines
for New York, and the remaining fifty barrels were loaded in
cars ready for shipment. Phillips & Carmichael immediafelyreplevied the fifty barrels which were found in cars in Chicagb,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

and went on to Detroit, Michigan, where they overhauled the
other fifty barrels, and they were also replevied. Phillips &
Carmichael sold the wines thus replevied to Shufeldt & Co. at
ninety-seven cents per gallon, the market price at that time,
and deposited the proceeds in bank to await the result of the
replevin suits. It appears that between the time the wines
were delivered, late in the afternoon of July 18th, and the
time the agents reached Ames's store next morning, Ames had
sent all the wines to the Michigan Central depot, shipped
them, obtained bills of lading, which were attached to drafts
on the consignee in. New York, one for $2800 and the other
for $2900, which drafts he discounted at the National Bank
of Commerce on the security of the bills of lading. The
replevin suits were defended by the National Bank of Commerce, and the defence interposed, that the bank was the pledgee
of the wines from Ames in good faith, and without notice of
Moir & Co.'s rights, was in the end sustained, .Michigan Central Railroad Co. v. Phillis,60 Illinois, 190, and .the money
realized on the sale of the high-wines to Shufeldt & Co. was
turned over to the National Bank of Commerce in payment
of the drafts."
It should be stated that a judgment by confession was taken
against Ames in favor of a former partner, on which execution
was issued, and under which the sheriff took possession of
and closed up Ames's store. As soon as the levy was made,
Ames went to his bank and checked against the proceeds of
the drafts that were discounted on the security of the bills of
lading in favor of a creditor whom he identified to the officers
of the bank as the payee of the checks.
The present suit was brought by the defendants in error in
the Superior Court of Cook County, Illinois, to recover from
Ames the value of the high-wines taken to his place of business
on the 18th of July, 1870, for delivery upon payment of the
price. One of his defences - the only one of which this court
can take cognizance -was that he was discharged September
13, 1872, by the District Court of the United States for the
Northern District of New York, sitting in bankruptcy, from
all. debts and claims which, by the act of Congress, were "made

AMES v..MOIR.
Statement of the Case.

provable against his estate, and which existed on the 28h day
of March, 1872, on which day the petition for adjudication
was filed against him, excepting such debts, if any, as are
by said act excepted from the operation of a discharge in
bankruptcy."
There was a verdict and judgment in favor of the plaintiffs.
That judgment was affirmed in the Appellate Court, and the
judgment of the latter court was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of Illinois. Ames v. Moir &c.,130 Illinois, 582, 593.
In respect to the defence based upon the discharge in bankruptcy, the Supreme Court of the State said: "It is also contended that Ames's discharge in bankruptcy was a bar to the
action. Section 5117 of the Bankrupt Act is as follows: 'No
debt created by the fraud or embezzlement of the bankrupt,
or by his defalcation as a public officer, or while acting in any
fiduciary character, shall be discharged by proceedings in
bankruptcy.' Whether the debt in this case was created by
the fraud of Ames, was a question of fact upon which the
judgment of the Appellate Court is conclusive. But it is said
incompetent evidence was admitted upon this question. No
evidence was introduced, except such as tended to establish
fraud on behalf -of Ames, and the sufficiency of the evidence
was a question for the jury. But it is said the debt was created when the contract was executed, - June 9, 1870, - and
up to this time there was no fraud on the part of Ames. The
debt was not entirely created until Ames induced the agents
of Moir & Co. to place the wines in his possession, and if he
obtained the possession by fraud, with the intent to ship the
goods out of the country, and thus defeat the lien of the
vendors, those were facts from which the jury might infer
fraud within the meaning of the bankrupt law. -Darlingv.
Woodward, 54 Vermont, 101. It is apparent from the evidence that Ames had no intention of paying for the .wines
when he called for them on the 15th day of July. His object
seemed to be to get possession and control of the wines, and
convert them to his own use without payment. This the
evidence tends to show he did, and thus the debt was
created."

OCTOBER TER-if, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. John G. Reid and 1r. William H. Barnum for plaintiff in error.
It is provided in Rev. Stat. ยง 5117 that "no debt created by
the fraud or embezzlement of the bankrupt, or by his defalcation as a public officer,. or while'acting in any fiduciary character, shall be discharged by proceedings in bankruptcy." This
fraud must be positive actual fraud; not merely fraud in law.
The evidence in this case did not show such fraud, and the Superior Court of Chicago erred in admitting it, and the Supreme
Court of the State erred in affirming a judgment founded on
it. .teal v. Clark,96 U. S. 704; Piercev. Shippee, 90 Illinois,
371; Hennequin v. Clews, 111 U. S. 676; Palmer v. flussey,
87 N. Y. 303; Cronan v. Cotting, 104 Mass. 245; Blow v.
Gage, 44 Illinois, 208; Wood v. Clark, 121 Illinois, 359;
Schroeder v. Walsh, 120 Illinois, 403; Morris v. Tillson, 81
Illinois, 607; Bowden v. Bowden, '75 Illinois, 143; .ey v.
Gulliman, 105 Illinois, 272, 285; Hide c& Leather Bank v..
West, 20 Ill. App. 61; Hammond v. Noble, 57 Vermont, 193;
-Noble v. Hammond, 129 U. S. 65; Wolf v. Stix, 99 U. S. 1;
Fisher v. Consequa, 2 Wash. C. 0. 382; Choteau v. Jones,
11 Illinois, 300, 318; S. C. 54"Am. Dec. 60; United States v.
Rob Roy, 13 Bank. Reg. 235; Jones v. Knox, 8 Bank. Reg.
559; Warner v. Cronkhite, 13 Bank. Reg. 52; Shuman v.
Strauss, 10 Bank. Reg. 300; In re Williams & XePheeters,
11 Bank. Reg. 145; Brown v. Broach, 16 Bank. Reg. 296;
Palmer v. Preston,45 Vermont, 154; Springfield v. Edwards,
84 Illinois, 626, 632, 633; -Law v. People, 87 Illinois, 385, 393,
398; Prince v. Quincy, 105 Illinois, 138; Prince v. City of
Quincy, 105 Illinois, 215; Xattingly v. Wul~e, 2 -Illinois App.
169; City qf Erie's Appeal, 91 Penn. St. 398; Wallace v. San&
Jose,'29 California, 180.
Ar. James -. Edsall for defendants in error.

MR. TusTio, HARLA,
opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered the

- The only question for the determination of this court is
whether kmes's discharge in bankruptcy was a bar to the

AMES v. MOIR.
Opinion of the Court.

present action; and that question depends upon the inquiry
whether the defendant is sued on account of a debt created
by fraud within the meaning of the bankruptcy act. It is
the settled doctrine of this court that "fraud",in the act of
Congress defining the debts from which a bankrupt is not
relieved by a discharge in bankruptcy means "positive fraud,
or fraud in fact involving moral turpitude or intentional wrong,
as does embezzlement, and not implied fraud or fraud in law,
which may exist without the imputation of bad faith or immorality." Neal v. Clark, 95 U. S. 704, 709; Volf v. Stix, 99
U. S. 1, 7; iennequin v. Clews, 111 U. S. 676, 682; Strang'v.
Bradner,114 U. S. 555, 559; _Noble v. Hammond, 129 U. S.
65, 69; Ujpshur v. Briscoe, _post, 365.
The argument, in behalf of the defendant, proceeds, mainly,
upon the ground that the claim or debt, on account of which
he is sued, was created by the writing of June 9, 1870; and as
that writing was executed in good faith, nothing done by him
at a subsequent date for the purpose of obtaining possession
of the high-wines for which he contracted, could be proved
under the issue as to whether the claim or debt was 6reated
byfraud. This view of the tra nsaction is inadmissible. The
writing referred to did not, in itself, create a debt within the"
meaning of the bankruptcy act. It could not become effective
as an instrument creating a debt in favor of plaintiffs until,
pursuant to a call by defendant prior to July 20, they delivered, or offered to deliver, to him, the high-wines he agreed to
take at the price stipulated, or -the defendant failing to make
a call for them within the time limited for his doing so- until
the high-wines were delivered, or tendered, to him by the
plaintiffs, after the 20th and before the end of the month of
July. When the plaintiffs delivered, or offered to deliver, the
high-wines at the defendant's place of business on the 18th of
July, in fulfilment of the agreement of June 9, and defendant
failed to pay for them, then, and not before, was a debt created
within the meaning of the bankruptcy act. Until the 18th
of July, or, at least, until the defendant took possession, without making payment, of the high-wines that were left at his
place of business, in discharge of the plaintiffs' obligation to

OCTOBER TERAI,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

deliver upon three days' notice, there was no debt for which
the plaintiffs could maintain an action against the defendant,
or which would have been provable against his estate in bankruptcy. If the month of July, 1870, had passed without any
call by the defendant for the high-wines, and without the
plaintiffs' exercising the privilege they reserved of delivering
or offering to deliver before the end of that month, the wrifing of June 9, 1870, would have been of no value to any one;
which fact shows that that instrument did not, in itself, create
a debt, and that no debt could be created by it without the
exercise by one or the other of the parties of the privilege
reserved to each respe6tively..
The vital inquiry, therefore, is whether the defendant in
making the call on the 15th day of July for the high-wines,
and in taking possession of them without payment on the 18th,
and shipping them on the cars, committed such fraud, in fact,
as involved moral turpitude or intentional wrong upon his
part. As the jury was instructed that Ames's discharge in
bankruptcy was a complete defence to the action unless it appeared, by a preponderance of evidence, that he was guilty of
positive fraud, or fraud in fact, involving moral turpitude or
intentional wrong, it must be. assumed that they found that
in the creation of the debt in question he bad committed
fraud of that character. When the wines were delivered,
-Moir & Co. were entitled to payment. Delivery and payment
were, substantially, concurrent acts. And if Ames made his
call, with the knowledge that he was then insolvent, and with
the purpose of getting possession of the wines and shipping
them out of the State without paying for them according to
the terms of the executory agreement of June 9, and received
them with that preconceived intent,- and there was evidence
that justified the jury in so finding-he was guilty of fraud
in fact, involving moral turpitude or intentional wrong, and
is not protected against the claim of the plaintiffs by his discharge in bankruptcy. Such was the view taken by the court
of original jurisdiction and by the Supreme Court of Illinois.
There is no error in the record in respect to the question of
Federal laiv arising in the case, and the judgment is
Afirmed.

