OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

In re COOPER, Petitioner,
ORIGINAL.
No number. Argued January 27, 28, 1891.- Decided February 2,1891.
This court has jurisdiction to proceed, in respect to the District Court ot
the United States for the District of Alaska, by way of prohibition, under
Rev. Stat. § 688; and therefore gives leave to file the petition for such a
writ, and the accompanying suggestion in this case.

ON the 12th day of January, 1891, A1r. Joseph H. Choate
presented to the court a petition, for a writ of prohibition to
be directed to the judge of the. District Court of the United
States in and for the Territory of Alaska, and moved for leave
to file the same. This petition was as follows:
"To the Honorable, the CMief Justice and Associate Justices
of the Supreme Court of the United States:
"Comes now, Thomas Hlenry Cooper, a British subject, and
gives this honorable court to understand and be informed"That whereas, by the law of nations, the municipal laws of
a country have no extra-territorial force and cannot operate
on foreign vessels on the high seas, and it is legally impossible,
under the public law, for a foreign vessel to commit a breach
of municipal law beyond the limits of the territorial jurisdiction of the law-making State;
"And whereas, the seizure of a foreign vessel beyond the
limits of the municipal territorial jurisdiction for breach of
municipal regulations is not warranted by the law of nations,
and such seizure cannot give jurisdiction to the courts of the
offended country, least of all where the alleged act was committed by the foreign vessel at the place of seizure beyond the
municipal territorial jurisdiction;
"And whereas, by the law of nations, a British vessel sailing
on the high seas is not subject to any municipal law except
that of Great Britain; and by the said law of nations a British
ship -so sailing on the high seas ought not to be arrested,

IN RE COOPER.
Statement of the Case.

seized, attached or detained under color of any law of the
United States;
"And whereas, by the laws of the United States as well as
by the law of nations, the District Courts of the United States
have not, and ought not to entertain jurisdiction, or hold plea
of an alleged breach upon the high seas of the municipal laws
of the United States by the captain and crew of a British
vessel, and can acquire no jurisdiction by a seizure of such
vessel on the high seas, though she be afterwards brought by
force within the territorial limits of the jurisdiction of said.
courts;
"And whereas, on the ninth day of July, 1887, there was
between the governments and peoples of Great Britain and
the United States profound peace and friendship, which relations of peace and friendship had happily subsisted for nearly
three-quarters of a century before said ninth day of July, 1887,
and still endure to the great comfort and happiness of two
kindred peoples;
"And whereas, on the said ninth day of July, 1887, the
schooner W. P. Sayward, a British vessel, duly registered and
documented as such, and having her home port at Victoria in
the Province of British Columbia, Dominion of Canada, and
commanded by one George R. Ferry, a British subject, as captain and master thereof, was lawfully and peaceably sailing
on the high seas, to wit: in latitude 540 43' north, longitude
1670 51 west, fifty-nine miles from any land whatsoever, and
then being fifty-nine miles northwest from Cape Cheerful,
Oonalaska Island, upon waters between Oonalaska and Prybyloff Islands in Behring's Sea, as mor& fully appears by the
chart in the record of the proceedings of the District Court
of the United States in and for the Territory of Alaska hereinafter referred to ;
"And whereas, said schooner was at said time and place
unlawfully and forcibly seized and arrested by an armed vessel of the United States Revenue Marine, to .wit, the United
States Revenue Cutter Rush, cruising under instructions of the
Secretary of the Treasury of the United States for the sole
purpose of enforcing the municipal law of the United States,

OCTOBER TERM,, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

and the said British schooner was thereupon unlawfully,
wrongfully and -forcibly detained and seized, and was by force
taken by the said Rush to the port of Sitka, in the territory
of Alaska, United States of America, and within the territory
of Alaska and the waters thereof and within the dominion of
the United States in Behring's Sea;
"And whereas, the said British schooner being as aforesaid so,
unlawfully, wrongfully and forcibly seized on the high seas and
without the limits of Alaska Territory or the waters thereof,
and being so unlawfully, wrongfully and forcibly brought
within the limits of Alaska Territory and the waters thereof;
nevertheless a certaidf M. D. Ball, an attorney of the United
States for the District of Alaska, not ignorant of the premises,
but unmindful of the danger of disturbing the peace and harmony subsisting between the United States and Great Britain,
did, by process out of the District Court of the United States
in and for the District of Alaska, attach and arrest the said
schooner W. P. Sayward, so as aforesaid wrongfully seized
while lawfully sailing on the high seas under the protection of
the law of nations, and so as aforesaid wrongfully and forcibly
brought within the said port of Sitka in the territory of Alaska,
and before the judge of the said District Court, contrary to the
said laws of nations and the laws of the United States, did unjustly draw in plea to answer a certain libel by him, the said
M. D. Ball, against the said schooner, her tackle, apparel, boats,
cargo and furniture exhibited and promoted, craftily and subtilely therein alleging and articulating that the said schooner
W. P. Sayward, her tackle, apparel, boats, cargo and furniture
were seized on the ninth day of July, 1887, within the limits

of Alaska Territory, and in the waters thereof, and within the
civil and judicial District of Alaska, to wit, within the waters
of that portion of Behring's Sea belonging to the United
States and said District, and that all said property was then
and there seized as forfeited to the United States for the following causes:. That the said vessel and her captain, officers
and crew were then and there found engaged in killing fur seal
within the limits of Alaska Territory and, in the said waters
thereof in violation of section nineteen hundred and fifty-six

IN RE COOPER.

407

Statement of the Case.

of the Revised Statutes of the United States, and that on said
ninth day of July, 1887, George R. Ferry and certain other
persons whose names were to the said attorney unknown, who
were then and there engaged on board said schooner W. P.
Sayward, as seamen and seal hunters, did, under the direction
and by the authorihy of George R. Ferry, then and there master
of said schooner, engage in killing, and did kill in the Territory
and District of Alaska and in the waters thereof, thirty fur
seals in violation of section 1956 of the Revised Statutes of
the United States in such cases made and provided. Without
this, however, and the said M. D. Ball not in any way alleging,
or articulating, that the said seizure was made, or the said killing of seal was done within any river or bay of the United
States, or within a marine league of the coast of any portion
of the mainland, or any island belonging to the United States,
or that the said vessel and her master and crew were subject
to the laws of the United States sailing upon the high seas, or
that any portion of the high seas beyond a marine league from
the coasts of the mainland or adjacent islands was within the
jurisdiction of the United States;
"And whereas, a demurrer by claimant filed on the fifteenth
day of September, 1887, alleging the insufficiency of the libel,,
vas overruled by the court on the said fifteenth day of September, 1887, and thereafter the claimant filed his answer
specifically denying the allegations of the libel that the seizure
aforesaid was made within the waters of Alaska Territory
or within 'he civil and judicial District of Alaska, or in any
portion of Behrings Sea belonging to the United States, and.
specifically denying the allegations of the libel that the said
vessel, her captain, officers and crew were then and there
found engaged in killing fur seal within the limits of Alaska
Territory, or-in the waters thereof, or that any of them did
kill any fur seal therein;
"And whereas, at the trial of said cause, the libellant,
through its witnesses, by it called in that behalf, to wit, the
captain and officers of the Rush, did make plain and clear tb.
the court what was not clearly disclosed in the libel, that is to
say, the place of the alleged offence, and the place of said-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

seizure; and did support the averments of the claimant's
answer and by its evidence so offeredin its behalf and not
gainsaid in any way, did show that the place of the alleged
killing of seal was without the limits of Alaska Territory or
the waters thereof, and that the said seizure was not made,
nor said killing of seal done, within the waters of Alaska
Territory, or within the civil and judicial District of Alaska,
or in any portion of Behring's Sea belonging to the United
States, but that the place of the alleged offence, and the place
of said seizure, was upon the high seas, to wit: in latitude 54°
43' north, and longitude 1670 511 west, fifty-nine miles distant
from any land whatsoever, and fifty-nine miles northwest
from Cape Cheerful, Oonalaska Island, upon waters between
Oonalaska and Prybyloff Islands in Behring's Sea, which said
testimony for libellant, as to place of seizure and place of
alleged offence, was supported by that of the claimant. So
that the judge of the District Court of the United States for
the District of Alaska was fully informed that the seizure had
been made and the alleged killing of seal done on the high
seas without the limits of Alaska Territory or the waters
thereof, and that said vessel was brought by force within the
jurisdiction of said court, and that therefore, under the laws
of nations and under the laws of the United States, he had,
and could have, no jurisdiction of the alleged offence or of the
vessel so as aforesaid unlawfully, wrongfully and tortiously
seized without the jurisdiction of the United States and of the
court, and so wrongfully and by force brought within the
jurisdiction of the United States and of the court, yet nevertheless, being so fully advised, said judge of the District Court
of Alaska aforesaid, did, on the nineteenth day of September,
1887, in contempt of the authority of the United States, in
violation of the laws of the United States and of the law of
nations, and to the" great danger of the friendly relations
happily subsisting between Great Britain and the United
States, assert and attempt to exercise jurisdiction over the
said vessel, the same being the vessel of a friendly nation at
peace with the United States, knowing the same to have been
unlawfullv seized on the high seas without the jurisdiction of

II RE COOPER.
Statement of the Case.

the United States, and knowing the place of the alleged offence
against a statute of the United States to be alleged and proved
to be the same place as the place of seizure, that is to say, the
high seas without the limits of the territory of Alaska or the
waters thereof, and without the jurisdiction of the United
States; all this the said district judge well knowing, he did
find as fact the killing of fur seal on the ninth day of July,
1887, by the captain and crew of the aforesaid British vessel,
the W. P. Sayward, at the* said place of seizure as aforesaid,
and did find. as conclusion of law that such killing at such
place on the high seas, to wit, at the said place of seizure in
latitude 54 43' north and longitude 1670 51' west, and fiftynine miles from any land whatsoever and fifty-nine miles
northwest from Cape Cheerful, Oonalaska Island, was in violation of section 1956 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States, and by reason thereof the libellant was entitled to a
decree of forfeiture of the said British vessel, her tackle,
apparel, boats, cargo and furniture;
"And wherea8, after said assertion of jurisdiction to con-.
demn and forfeit said vessel, and before decree or sentence,
claimant did move the court to arrest the decree of forfeitLre, and among other grounds did distinctly set up that the
court had no jurisdiction over the subject matter of the cause,
as shown by libellant's own testimony as to place of offence
and seizure;
"Yet the said court did, nevertheless 'n contempt of the
authority of the United States and in violation of the laws of
the United States and in violation of the law of nations, and
to the manifest danger of the peaceful relations of the two
countries, assert and attempt to exercise jurisdiction in the
premises; and on the nineteenth day of September, 1887, did
make and enter a pretended decree of forfeiture to the United
States of said vessel, her tackle, apparel, boats, cargo and furniture, and direct that unless an appeal be taken the usual
writ of venditini erponas be issued to the marshal commanding him to sell all said property and bring the proceeds into
court to be distributed according to law, costs to be taxed and
awarded against the claimants.
't

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

"And whereas, said Thomas Henry Cooper, being admitted
as the actual owner of the said schooner W. P. Sayward,
by order of the District Court to interpose as claimant did, in.
order to prevent the execution of said decree, take an appeal
to this honorable court on the 26th day of April, 1888, and
docketed the same on the 30th day of October, 1888, under
No. 1037;
"And whereas, all mattes of fact hereinbefore recited and
alleged, save and except those of which. this honorable court
takes judicial notice, appear by the record and proceedings of
the District Court of the United States in and for the Territory of Alaska;
"And whereas, the said appeal has been dismissed by this
honorable court on the application of the claimant, appellant,
himself, not only because he is advised that there is no appeal
given to this court from the District of Alaska by the laws of
the United States, but because he is advised that, the District
Court being wholly without jurisdiction, its decreewas and is
a nullity, and this honorable court is fully authorized by section 688 of the Revised Statutes of the United States to prohibit any proceedings in the District Court for the enforcement
of the same;
"And whereas, the said Thomas Henry Cooper is advised
that in consequence of the dismissal of his appeal, according
to the practice of this honorable court, its mandate will issue
in due course without further consideration by this court,
which said mandate would, in ordinary course, not only permit, but command the District Court of Alaska to proceed to
execute its pretended decree of forfeiture, and it is therefore
the duty of the said Thomas Henry Cooper, now here, to give
this honorable court to understand and be informed of all and
singular the matters in this suggestion recited and alleged, to
the end that- this court shall consider this application for prohibition before issuing its mandate, so that it may either frame
a special mandate or take order that the ordinary mandate
shall not reach the District Court before the writ of prohibition hereinafter prayed, or a rule to show cause why said writ
should not issue, shall be served upon said court.

IN RE COOPER.
Statement of the Case.

"Wherefore the said Thomas Henry Cooper, the aid of this
honorable court most respectfully requesting, prays remedy by
writ of prohibition to be issued out of this honorable court to
the judge of the District Court of the United States in and for
the territory of Alaska to be directed, to prohibit him from
holding the plea aforesaid, the premises aforesaid, anywise
concerning further before him, and to prohibit him from in
any manner enforcing the said decree or sentence, or from
treating the said decree as a valid sentence, for any purpose,
or from taking any steps whatsoever in the cause aforesaid as
to said decree or any matter or thing remaining to be done in
consequence of said decree, and prohibiting him, the said
judge, from making or entering any order, judgment or decree
in and about the certain stipulation exacted and required in
the course of said proceedings, and generally from the further
exercise of jurisdiction in said cause, or the enforcing any
order, judgment or decree made under color thereof.
"JOSEPH H.

CHOATE,

" Of Counsel."
"I have read the foregoing petition by me subscribed, and
the facts therein stated are true to the best of my information
and belief.
JOSEPH H. CHOATE."
"Subscribed and sworn to before me this 12th day of January, .1891.
"[SEAL.]

" OscAR LUcKETr,

Nota-7-y Public."

On the same 12th day of January, and at the same time,
XM. Calderon Carlisle, on behalf of Sir John Thompson,
Y. C. M. G., Her Britannic Majesty's Attorney General of Canada, presented to the court a suggestion for a like writ of prohibition. This suggestion was in every respect identical with
Cooper's petition, except that the party presenting it was the
Attorney General of Canada, and that the suggestion for the
writ was in these words:
"Wherefore the said Sir John Thompson, K. C. M. G., Her
Britannic Majesty's Attorney General of Canada, the aid of

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

this honorable court most respectfully req-desting, for said
Thomas Henry Cooper, submits to this honorable court that
a writ of prohibition ought to'be issued out of this honorable
court to the judge of the District Court of the United States
in and for the territory of Alaska to be directed, to prohibit
him from holdii.g the plea aforesaid, the premises aforesaid,
anywise concerning further before him, and to prohibit him
from in any manner enforcing the said decree or sentence, or
from treating the said decree as a valid sentence, for any purpose, or from taking any steps whatsoever in the cause aforesaid as to said decree or any matter or thing remaining to be
done in consequence of said decree, and prohibiting him, the
said judge, from making or entering any order, judgment or
decree in and about the certain stipulation exacted and required
in the course of said proceedings, and generally from the further exercise of jurisdiction in said cause, or the enforcing any
order, judgment or decree made under color thereof.
"And the said Sir John Thompson, K. C. M. G., Her Britannic Majesty's Attorney General of Canada, most respectfully
informs this honorable court that the fact that this his suggestion is presented with the knowledge and approval of the
imperial -government of Great Britain, will be brought to the
attention of the court by counsel duly thereunto authorized
by Her Britannic Majesty's representative in the United States.
" CATDERON

CARLISLE,

"Counsel for Sir John 1V7ompson, f. 0. 3f G., Her
Britannic .Aiajesty's Attorney General of Canada."
"I have read the foregoing suggestion by me subscribed,
and the facts therein stated are true to the best of my knowl-

edge and belief.

CALDERON CARLISLE."

"Subscribed and sworn to before me this 12th day of January, 1891.
"[SEAL.]

(

SCAR LUOiKETT%

.2lotary Public."

The court thereupon ordered that two weeks' time be al-

IN RE COOPER.
Argument against the Motion.

lowed to the Attorney General of the United States in opposition to the motion.
On the 26th of January, the day so appointed, the parties
appeared and were heard on that and the following day. A
wide range of argument took place, in which points were
taken which are not considered by the court in its decision.
.X&. Calderon Carlisle and .Mr. Jos&.h H. Caoate for the
motion for leave to fie.

.r. Attorney General and _.
took the following positions:

Solicitor General, opposing,

The government of the United States opposes the filing of
a petition for a writ of prohibition to the District Court of
Alaska in this case for the following reasons:
I. This court has no power, in any case, to issue a writ of
prohibition to that court, because it is not a District Court of
the United States within section 688, Revised Statutes.
II. The question of jurisdiction of the Alaska court, which
petitioners seek to present, cannot be raised on the record of
the admiralty proceedings on file in this court, because (a) The
face of those proceedings shows jurisdiction in the Alaska
court, and after sentence, in such a case, prohibition will
not issue. (b) Even if the evidence on appeal may be here
examined, it shows the taking of seals within three miles of
the Alaskan islands, which is confessedly within the jurisdiction of that court, and thb seizure did not oust the jurisdiction
to condemn the vessel; first, because objection on that account
was waived; second, because, however tortious or illegal, the
seizure could not annul the proceeding; and third, because
the seizure, even if upon the high seas, was legal.
III. Conceding all the facts averred in the petition, the
question of the jurisdiction of the Alaskan court depends upon
the extent of the dominion of the United States in Behring
Sea. This is a political question to be decided by the political
department of the government -the Executive and Congress.
They have both decided it against the petitioners' contention.
This is conclusive upon the judiciary.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

MiR. CHIEF JusTcE

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is an application for leave to file a petition for a writ
of prohibition to the District Court of the United States for
the District of Alaska. The Attorney General being present
and expressing a desire to that effect, opportunity was afforded
him to be heard in oppositi6n to granting the leave to file, and
this resulted in argument having a much wider range than
was necessary'to the disposition of the motion.
'We are of opinion, upon the preliminary question, that this
court has jurisdiction to proceed in respect to the District
Court of the United States for the District of Alaska, by way
of prohibition, under section 688 of the Revised Statutes, and
leave will therefore be given to file the petition for such writ
and the accompanying suggestion. A rule will be entered as
in like cases, returnable on such day as will allow reasonable
time for service and return, in relation to which we invite the
views of counsel.
(Counsel having conferred, the second Monday of April wa
made the return day.)
L~eave granted.

CENTRAL TRUST COMPANY v. KNEELAND.
APPEAI

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 137.

Argued January 7, 1891. -Decided

March 2,1891.

When a railroad company is incorporated to construct a railroad between
two cities named as its termini, a mortgage given by it which, as expressed, is upon its line of railroad constructed, or to be constructed,
between the named termini, together with all the stations, depot grounds,
engine-houses, machine-shops, buildings, erections in any way now or
hereafter appertaining unto said described line of railroad, creates a lien
upon its terminal facilities in those cities, and is not limited to so much
of the road as is found between the city limits of those places.
When a railroad mortgage contains the "after-acquired property" clause,
the mortgage is made thereby to cover not only property then owned by

