KNEELAND v. AMERICAN LOAN AND TRUST CO.

509

Syllabus.

ville first mortgage -it
seems inequitable that they should be
held responsible and be compelled to pay the party employed
by the railroad company. It cannot be that security holders
are liable, either in law or in equity, for the expenses incurred
by their debtor in carrying into effect a scheme which the
latter believes will enable it to pay its interest to them; but
which, in fact, does not accomplish such result. It was the
debtor's act; and if it failed of accomplishing hoped-for
results, the party employed must look to his employer alone
for compensation, and cannot charge the bondholders therefor, on the theory that it was believed that it might enure to
their ultimate benefit. In this matter, also, the allowance to
the intervenor as against the security holders, represented by
the appellant, was unwarranted.
The decree, therefore, will be reversed, and the case remanded
with instructions to allow the intervenor three hundred
dollmv. CoWts in this court will be divided.

KNEELAND v. AMERICAN LOAN AND TRUST
COMPANY.
KNEELAND v. BALLOU.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT
THE

OF

THE

UNITED

STATES FOR

DISTRICT OF INDIANA.

Nos. 1539, 1540. Argued January 29, 30,1891.-Decided March 2, 1891.

The decree in this case in the court below, founded on the report of a master, awarded to the complainant the recovery of rental for five months,
separately stated. In this respect the decree was sustained here, (136
U. S. 89,) but it was reversed and the cause remanded, in order to have
the computation made, after inquiry into special subjects indicated in
the mandate. The Circuit Court, after determining the special matters,
regarded the matter of the time and amounts of the r~ntal as settled by
the former decree and as sustained by this court, and awarded interest
on the amounts from the date of the former decree. Held, that there was
no error in this; that the remanding of the cause did not reopen the whole
subject of the accounts, but, on the contrary, contemplated no new investigation as to past matters.
Counsel should use respectful language, both in brief and in oral arguments.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

IN EQuIrY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. John X. Butler for appellant.
M3'. llenry D. Eyde for appellee in No. 1539.
-Mr. TJ.
Mm.

High for appellees in No. 1540.

JUSTiCe. BREWER

delivered the opinion of the court.

These cases, being appeals from two decrees of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Indiana, making
-allowances to certain intervenors in railroad foreclosure suits,
by stipulation of parties are to be heard together and treated
as one case. They were before the court a year ago. Xneeland v. American Loan and Trust Co. 136 U. S. 89.
The claims of the intervenors are for the rental of rolling
stock, from the 1st of August, 1883, to the 1st of January,
1885. The road during that time was in the possession of a
receiver. From the 1st of August, 1883, to the 1st of December 1883, the receivership was at the instance.of a judgment
creditor; the remainder of the time, at the instance of the
bondholders, for whose benefit the appellant became the purchaser at the foreclosure sales. The only questions then determined which are important to the present controversy, were
these: First, the time for which the property was responsible
for the rental; and, second, the method of computing it. It
was there adjudged that the bondholders, represented by the
appellant, the beneficial owners of the property, could not be
held liable for rental value prior to December 1, 1883, and during the time that the receivership was at the instance of a judgment creditor. It was also ruled, against the contention of the
appellaht, that the mileage basis was not the proper one for
determining the compensation to be paid to the intervenors;
but that they were entitled to recover a reasonable rental
value, computed as ordinary rentals, by the month, and irrespective of the actual use of the rolling stock. That was the,
basis of computation pursued by the Circuit Court, in the
decrees from which those appeals were taken; and, therefore,

KNEELAND v. AMERICAN LOAN AND TRUST CO.

511

Opinion of the Court.

in that respect its rulings were sustained. In those decrees
the court had found the amounts due to the several intervenors, stating each separately and decreeing a recovery
therefor.
These decrees were based upon and confirmed final reports
made by the master. Back of these reports was an immense
volume of testimony upon which they were founded. They
stated the amounts due the intervenors, separately and for
different periods. One, from August 1, 1883, to August 1,
1884, and the other from thence on to January 1, 1885. With
these reports it was a simple matter of arithmetical computation to determine the amount due to each intervenor for
the four months from August 1, 1883, to December 1, 1883,
that being simply one-third of the year. The order which
was entered by this court was that the decrees be "reversed,
and the cases remanded with instructions to strike out all
allowances for rental prior to December 1, 1883, the time
when the receiver was appointed at the instance of the mortgagees, and to allow the rentals as fixed for the time subsequent." In other words, all that the court had to do was to
deduct from the amount allowed to each intervenor one-third
of the amount allowed for the year ending August 1, 1884.
In each of the reports, as well as the decrees, the rentals due
from August 1, 1884, to January 1, 1885, had been stated;
and on receiving our mandates the Circuit Court interpreted
them as in effect affirming so much of the decrees as allowed
these amounts to the intervenors, and its new decrees awarded
interest thereon from the date of the former decrees. This is
the first ground of alleged error.
We think the ruling of the Circuit Court was correct. The
amount of the allowances for these five months was separately
stated, and such allowances were sustained by this court.
While the former decrees were in terms reversed, and the
cases remanded for the entering of new decrees, yet, the terms
of those new decrees were specifically stated, and in so far as
the separate and distinct matters embraced in the former
decrees were ordered to be incorporated into the new, it is to
be regarded as pro tanto an affirmance. Equity regards the

OCTOBER TERM,, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

substance and not the form. The rights of *partiesare not to
be sacrificed to the mere letter, and whether the language
used was reversed, modified, or affirmed in part and reversed
in part, is immaterial. Equity looks beyond these words of
description to see what was in fact ordered to be done.
llinois Central Railroad v. Twrill, 110 U. S. 301. That
the computations were not made by this court, and the separate amounts due each intervenor stated in the mandates to
the trial court, was owing partly to a fact transpiring on the
argument here, and which appears in the closing part of our
order, as follows: "Counsel for the Grant claims expressly
stated in open court, in his argument, that in case certain
appeals from the Sixth Circuit were affirmed there might
result a double allowance to his clients, which they did not
insist upon. As the details and sum are not clearly presented,
we can only say that this matter must be taken into account
in the subsequent disposition of the cases." This was a matter
not disclosed by the record, and of which we were, informed
simply by the oral statement of counsel. For this reason, as
well as from the fact that there were several intervenors, we
left the matter of computation to the trial court.
Another error alleged is this: After the mandates were
filed in the Circuit Court the appellant moved that the matters be referred to a master, with instructions to investigate
and report the correct and true amounts to be allowed to the
claimants; also the exact time at which proceedings were
commenced by the mortgagees for the foreclosure of the
mortgage resting upon the St. Louis division; whether any
receiver was ever appointed at the instance of the mortgagees
in said St. Louis division mortgage , and, also, whether the receivership theretofore existing under the creditor's bill, known
as "Braman's" bill, or under that brought by the mortgagees
on the Toledo division, was ever extended to and made to
embrace certain foreclosure suits named. In support, he filed
an affidavit as to facts which he claimed to have ascertained
since the decision in this court. This motion was denied, and
the terms of the decrees were settled by the Circuit Court.
This ruling is complained of, but it obviously was correct.

KNEELA-ND v. AMERICAN LOAN AND TRUST CO. 513
Opinion of the Court.

Counsel claims that under the reversal the whole matter of
inquiry as to the accounts was opened. On the contrary, the
clear language of our decision was to strike out certain specific
items, and to allow others as already fixed. No new investigation was contemplated in respect to past matters. The only
independent matter left for consideration was that in respect
to double allowance, suggested by counsel on oral argument.
A final matter of objection, which applies only to case number 1539, and to the allowance in favor of the intervenor, the
American Loan and Trust Company, is this: To that company, for the year ending August 1, 1884, there was, by the
former decree, allowed $33,735.28 ; deducting one-third, leaves
$22,490.19.
The amount allowed in this decree for such
period was $23,262.72, or $772.53 more than the two-thirds.
Counsel for this intervenor seems to have gone back of. the
final reports of the master, into the testimony, to work out
this result; but, as we have already stated, no such inquiry
was intended to be left open by the former decision to one.
party more than to the other. In this respect, therefore, there,
was error, and the allowance to such intervenor must be
reduced by that sum.
We regret to notice in the brief of appellees' counsel in No.
1540 aspersions on the conduct of opposing counsel. It is not
pleasant to be compelled to remind counsel that language used
in briefs, as well as that employed in oral argument, must be
respectful.
The decree in humber 1540 will be affirmed. An number
1539 it will be modifted, and the ease remanded with
instructions to reduce the allowance to the American -Loan,
and Trust Company by the sum of $772.53. The costs
of that appeal will be egually divided between the apellant and the American Loan and Trust Company.
VOL. cXXXvm-33

