UNITED STATES v. CONNOR.
Statement -of the Case.

Constitution, treaty, statute, commission or authority, and no
decision was rendered against such title, right, privilege or
immunity. The Supreme Court of the State confessedly went
to judgment without any suggestion that a Federal question
was presented for its determination, and not even in the petition for rehearing was any such question brought to the attention of the court. And the disposition of the motion that oral
argument be permitted after the petition for rehearing was
denied, did not, in itself, necessarily involve the decision of a
Federal question.
We cannot, under such circumstances, reexamine the judgment and orders of that court, and the writ of error must be
-Dismissed.

UNITED STATES v. CONNOR.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 113. Argued January9, 1891.-Decided January 19, 1891.
Any right which an informer might have had to a share in a fine, penalty,

or forfeiture under the provisions of the act of July 13, 1866, 14 Stat.
145, was taken away by the act of June 6, 1872, 17 Stat. 256, c. 315, ยง 9,
unless the amount of the fine, penalty or forfeiture was fixed and settled
by judgment or compromise, and by payment, before the passage of the
latter act.
Without resting this case on the point, the court is of opinion that the
claimant's claim was presented to the Secretary of the Treasury, and was
finally passed upon and adjudicated by him twelve years before the commencement of this action, and that consequently it is barred by the statute of limitations. Rev. Stat. ยง 1069.

THis case being reached in its order on the docket on the
17th of December, 1890, argument was begun. The court,
however, ordered the case to be passed, to be heard before a
full bench. On the 9th of January, 1891, it was again called,
and was argued. The case, as stated by the court, was as
follows:
In December, 1871, the appellee gave the first information,

OCTOBER TERTNJ, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

to the proper officers of the United States, of a violation of
the internal revenue laws by one William Stout. Proceedings
were thereupon instituted by the government for collection of
the penalty therefor. At the time this information was given,
section 179 of the act of June 30, 1864, as amended by the act
of July 13, 1866, (14 Stat. 145, c. 184,) was in force. This,
after casting upon the collectors the duty of instituting prosecutions for all fines, penalties and forfeitures due the government, under the revenue acts, contained these provisions as to
informers: "And where not otherwise provided -for, such
share as the Secretary of the Treasury shall, by general regulations, provide, not exceeding one moiety nor more than five
thousand dollars in any one case, shall be to the use of the
person, to be ascertained by the court which shall have imposed
or decreed any such fine, penalty or forfeiture, who shall first
inform of the cause, matter or thing whereby such fine, penalty or forfeiture shall have been incurred; and when any
sum is paid without suit, or before judgment, in lieu of fine,
.penly [penalty] or forfeiture, and a share of the same is
claimed by any person as informer, the Secretary of the Treasury, under general regulations. to be by him prescribed, shall
determine whether any claimant is entitled to such share as
above limited, and to whom the same shall be 15aid, and shall
make payment accordingly. It is hereby declared to be the
true intent and meaning of the present and all previous provisions of internal revenue acts granting shares to informers,
that no right accrues to or is vested in any informer in any
case until the fine, penalty or forfeiture in such case is fixed
by judgment or compromise, and the amount or proceeds shall
have been paid, when the informer shall become entitled to his
legal shire of the sum adjudged or agreed upon and received:
Provided,That nothing herein contained shall be construed to
limit or affect the power of remitting the whole or any portion
of a fine, penalty or forfeiture conferred on the Secretary of
the Treasury by existing laws."
In 1872 the statute was changed by section 39 of the act of
June 6 of that year, (17 Stat. 256, c. 315,) which reads: "That
so much of section one hundred and seventy-nine of the act of

UNITED STATES v. CONNOR.
Statement of the Case.

July thirteenth, eighteen hundred and sixty-six, as provides
for moieties to informers be, and the same is hereby, repealed;
and the commissioner of internal revenue, with the approval
of the Secretary of the Treasury, is hereby authorized to pay
such sums, not exceeding in the aggregate the amount appropriated therefor, as may, in his judgment, be deemed necessary
for detecting and bringing to trial and punishment persons
guilty of violating the internal revenue laws, or conniving
at the same, in cases where such expenses are not otherwise
provided for by law; and for this purpose there is hereby
appropriated one hundred thousand dollars, or so much thereof
as may be necessary, out of any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated." By section 46 of the same act (p. 258) it
That all acts and parts of acts inwas provided as follows: "1
consistent with the provisions of this act are hereby repealed:
Provided, That all the provisions of said act shall be in force
for levying and collecting all taxes properly assessed, or liable to
be assessed, or accruing under the provisions of former acts, the
right to which has ha8 already accrued, or which may hereafter
accrue, under said acts, and for maintaining, continuing and
enforcing liens, fines, penalties and forfeitures incurred under
and by virtue thereof. And this act shall not be construed to
affect any act done, right accrued or penalty incurred under
former acts, but every such right is hereby saved; and all suits
and prosecutions for acts already done in violation of any former act or acts of Congress relating to the subjects embraced
in this act may be commenced or proceeded with in like manner as if this act had not been passed."
The suit against Stout was not tried. On May 13, 1873, a
settlement was made with him; and he paid the United States,
in lieu of and as a penalty, the sum of eight hundred dollars.
On March 22, 1875, the appellee presented an application to
the Treasury Department for his informer's share, which was
endorsed "too late," and nothing was done thereunder. Twelve
years thereafter, and on February 24, 1887, by his attorney,
he made a second application. To such application the following answer was returned:

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

"TREASURY

DEPARTMENT,

OFFICE OF

"WASHINGTON,

"GEORGE A. KiNG,

THE SECRETARY,

D.C., Fet Uary 24, 1887.

sq.,

"Attorney-at-Law, Washington, D.C.
"SIR: In your letter to the Secretary, dated the 20th of
January, 1887, you request that your client, Mr. Frederick
D. Connor, of New Albany, Indiana, be declared to have
been the first informer in a case in which he claimed that a
penalty of $800 has been recovered by reason of information
which had been given by him, and you make this request so
that in case the Secretary should decline to order payment of
the proper share of said penalty to the informer, he may then
be in a position to apply to the Court of Claims for relief.
"In reply, I have to say that the case is not one in which
payment of the informer's share can be properly made at the
present time, because the penalty was fixed by compromise, and
the amount paid after August 1, 1872, when the act of June 6,
1872, (17 Stat. 256,) took effect, repealing section 179 of the
act of June 30, 1864, as amended by the act of July 13, 1866,
(14 Stat. 145,) under which the share of the informer is claimed
in this case, and because the question as to the effect of such
repeal was involved in the Ramsay case, in which the judgment of the Court of Claims, on being appealed to the Supreme
Court of the United States, was recently affirmed by a divided
court, thus rendering the decision of no effect as a precedent.
"I see no objection, however, to stating that the proof filed
in the bffice of the Secretary. of the Treasury shows that said
Frederick D. Connor gave the first information upon which a
penalty of $800 was recovered by compromise from William
Stout, a distiller of fruit; the compromise having been approved by the Secretary of the Treasury on the 13th day of
May, 1873, and the penalty having been paid on the 29th of
April, 1874.
"I add that under the -schedule of shares prescribed by the
Secretary of the Treasury, August 14, 1866, pursuant to the
authority conferred by said section 179, the share of the penalty that would be payable to an informer in this case would
be three hundred and seventV dollars (8370.00).

UNITED STATES v. CONNOR.
"-nion of the Court.

"It is presumed that o. t.his declaration you can take the
case to the Cou-t of Claims anu obtain an adjudication.
"c. S. FA=cUD, Acting Secretary."

Thereafter this suit was brought, claiming under the act of
1866, and the alleged decision by the Secretary of the Treasury
as evidenced by the letter quoted'. The judgment of the Court
of Claims was in favor of the claimant, and the government
has brought this appeal.
Mr. assistantAttorney General Gotton for appe.ltnts.
-Mr. George A. .Aangfor appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BREWERi,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The right of claimant, as informer, depends on the act of
1866. Before final adjustment of the claim made against
Stout, the act of 1866 was repealed. Unless, therefore, prior
to this repeal some right was vested, the claimant has no
standing in court. But the act of 1866 explicitly declared,
that no right accrued to an informer until the fine, penalty or
forfeiture became fixed by judgment or compromise, and the
amount thereof was paid. While there is in the repealing act
a reservation, it is only of rights which have accrued.. As
under the act of 1866, no right accrued until judgment or compromise, the repeal by the act of 1872 left nothing to the
claimant. It is familiar law, that an offer of reward conveys
no right beyond the specific terms of the offer; that it may be
withdrawn at any time; and that unless prior to the withdrawal something has been done to complete a contract or
settle and establish a right under the offer, a claimant takes
nothing by reason thereof. It is urged that the claimant had
done all that he was called upon to do under the act of 1866;
that the government had the full benefit of his information;
and that it would be unseemly for it to appropriate such benefit and repudiate any liability therefor. It is claimed that a
reasonable construction of the act of 1866 is, that the liaVOL. cxVmir-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

bility to the informer arose the moment the information
was given, while the amount to be paid was not settled until
judgment or compromise and payment; and the opinion of
the Court of Claims, in the case of ]arnsay v. United State8,
21 C. Cl. 443, is cited in support of this view.
But the language of the act of 1866 is clear. It is emphatic
that no 'right accrues: No clearer language could be-used;
and we may not, under the pretence of an equity, enlarge the
scope of an offer beyond its express words. Is the claim sc
mneritorious as to justify a strained construction of the language of the statute? What did the claimant, do? So far as
it appears, he simply informed the officers of the government
,of a violation of one of the laws of his country. Is there no
obligation resting upon a citizen to disclose such a fact?
Does such an act of disclosure make him a special object of
public gratitude; or has he simply discharged a duty, resting
in common upon all citizens? Is it not clear that an offer of
reward therefor is not the recognition of an equitable duty of
the government to the informer, but a mere act of public
policy, the giving or withholding of which, and whose terms,
are wholly within the discretion of the government. Whoever
claims under such an offer must bring himself within its terms.
Failing to do that, his compensation is the consolation which
comes to every citizen from the discharge of a public duty,
which is the common obligation of all. We conclude, therefore, that the claimant acquired no right before the repeal of
the act of 1866, and, therefore, has no claim against the government for compensation for the information he gave.
If the facts were otherwise, and a stronger claim for compensation was made out, can the letter of the Secretary of-the
Treasury be considered as an adjudication of the claim? It is
,conceded that such an adjudication is prerequisite to this action.
The tenor of the Secretary's letter is not to the effect that he
is adjudicating upon the claim. On the contrary, the findings
show that twelve years before, the claim had been presented
and practically determined against the claimant. The statute
of limitation would bar a suit commenced as this was, twelve
years after such adjudication. Rev. Stat. ยง 1069: Finn v.

PLEASANT TOWNSHIP v. EtNA LIFE INS. 00.

67

Statement of the Case.

United States, 123 U. S.227. Obviously, from the language
of the letter, the Secretary did not intend a reopening of the
case and a new adjudication, but simply to furnish to the
claimant such information as the records of his department
disclosed.
Without resting the case, however, on this last point we
hold, for the reasons first stated, that the judgment of the
Court of Claims was erroneous; and it must be
Reversed, and the case remanded with instructions for
further proceeding8 in accordance with the views herein

expressed.

PLEASANT TOWNSHIP v. fETNA LIFE INSURANCE
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 1214. Submitted December 18,1890.-Decided January 19, 1891.
The act of the legislature of Ohio of April 9, 1880, authorizing townships
having a population of 3683 under the census of 1870, "to build railroads and to lease or operate the same," and "to borrow money" "as a
fund for that purpose," and" to issue bonds therefor in the name of
said township," is repugnant to the provision in article 8, section 6 of
the constitution of that State, which provides that "the general assembly shall never authorize any county, city, town or township, by vote of
its citizens or otherwise, to become a stockholder in any joint stock
company, corporation, or association whatever; or to raise money for, or
loan its credit to or in aid of any such company, corporation or association"; and bonds of such a township, issued under the supposed authority
of said act, .are void.
It appearing that a decision of the highest court of the State of Ohio,
made prior to the issue of the bonds in controversy in this action, as to
the validity of such municipal bonds, was, argumentatively at least, in
conflict with decisions of the same court made after the issue of such
bonds, this court, following the rule laid down in Douglassv. Pike County,
101 U. S. 677, and Bwrgqess v. $eligman, 107 U. S. 20, in the exercise of
its independent judgment, finds the issue here in controversy to be invalid.

THIs was an action at laiv, to recover upon bonds issued by
the plaintiff in error to aid in the construction of a railway,

