OOTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

WADSWORTH v. ADAMS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ALA

A.A.

No. 152. Argued and submitted January 20, 21,1891.-Decided February 2,1891.

A, the owner of five promissoiy notes for $100,000 each, being in want of
money, empowered B, who knew of his necessities, to sell them at a
discount which would net the sum of $380,000, agreeing to give him
$10,000 in case of success. B took the notes to New York, and there
offered them to C for $380,000. C declined to take them at that price,
but offered $350,000 for them. B at first refused to communicate this
offer to A ;.but, on being pressed to do so, said to C that as A was in
need of money he would send the offer by telegraph, and he did so send
it. At a later hour on the same day B asked C what he would do in
case his offer should be refused, to which C replied that he would take
the notes at $380,000. B did not communicate this to A. On the following day A received a telegram purporting to come from B : "Please
answer my telegram of yesterday." As he received this telegram he was
in conversation with D, who thereupon offered to take the notes and pay
$380,000 for them. This offer was immediately accepted by A. A then
wired to B, " Cannot accept offer." B replied: "Have made the negotiations on the terms you gave me." This transaction with C not being
carried out, B sued A to recover the agreed compensation of $10,000,
and recovered judgment therefor in the court below. Held, that B was
not entitled to compensation under the contract on which he sued, and
that the court, having been requested by the defendant to so instruct the
jury, should have complied with the request.
It is a condition precedent to'the right of an agent to the compensation
agreed to be paid to him that he shall faithfully perform the services he
undertook to render; and if he abuses the confidence reposed in him,
and withholds from his principal facts which ought, in good faith, to be
communicated to the latter he will lose his right to any compensation
under the agreement; being no more entitled to it than a broker would
be entitled to commissions who, having undertaken to sell a particular
property for the best price that could be fairly obtained for it, becomes,
without the knowledge of the principal, the agent for another, to get it
for him at the lowest possible price.

THE case, as stated by the court, was as follows:
By the judgment below the defendant in error recovered the
sum of twelve thousand eight hundred dollars as damages for

"WADSWORTH

v. ADAMS.

Statement of the Case.

the alleged breach of an agreement made, in March, 1883, at
Birmingham, Alabama, between him and H. F. Dd Bardeleben,
representing Frank L. Wadsworth, trustee, whereby the plaintiff was to receive ten thousand dollars if he negotiated the
sale, at a discount of eight per cent-per annum, of five promissory notes, of one hundred thousand dollars each, payable in
one, two, three, four, and five years, executed to said trustee by
the Pratt Coal and Coke Company, and secured by mortgage
upon its property. The proceeds of the notes at that discount
would have been three hundred and eighty thousand dollars.
The undisputed facts in the case are as follows: Adams
went to the city of :New York for the purpose of finding a
purchaser of the notes. He there offered them to J. J. McComb at a discount of 8 per cent per annum. According to
the plaintiff's testimony, McComb did not say whether he
would take them or not, but put his clerk to making calculations in relation to them, and left his office to see if he could
make arrangements to get the money in the event he bought
the notes. On his return, McComb said he would give $350,000
for them, and requested plaintiff to telegraph that offer to De
Bardeleben. Plaintiff told him that it was useless to send such
a telegram, as De Bardeleben would not accept the offer. McComb insisting on his offer being sent, Adams telegraphed De
Bardeleben from New York, under date of March 27, 1883:
"I can sell the five notes with mortgage for three hundred
and fifty thousand dollars cash, the right of trustee to sell and
transfer being all right. Answer." It does not appear at what
hour of.the day this telegram was sent, but the plaintiff testified that just before he left McComb, at four o'clock in the
afternoon of the 27th of March, 1883, he asked him what he
should do if De Bardeleben refused the offer of $350,000.
McComb replied that "if De Bardeleben refused the offer of
$350,000, then he would take the notes at De Bardeleben's
proposition -that is, at eight per cent per annum discount."
Adams then' went from New York to Philadelphia; and he
testified that, after leaving McComb on the afternoon of the
27th of March, he did not see or have any communication with
him in relation to the notes or their sale or purchase.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

Under date of March 28, 1883, De Bardeleben telegraphed
to Adams at Philadelphia, where the latter resided: "Cannot
accept offer." Adams, immediately, on the same day, replied
by telegram from Philadelphia; "Have made the negotiation
on the terms you gave me. Bring on your papers with Smith's
opinion on the matters I mentioned to you. Let me know
here when I shall meet you in New York." On the same day
there was sent from Ndw York, in the name of Adams, this
telegram to De Bardeleben: "Please answer my telegram of
yesterday." In reference to the latter telegram, which was
received by De Bardeleben on the day of its date, the plaintiff
was asked on cross-examination whether he did not send it.
The bill of exceptions states: "After some hesitation he said
possibly he might have done so, but had no recollection of
going back to New York on the 28th. He was then asked by
defendant if he had not given McComb authority to send said
dispatch in his name: to which he said, possibly I may have
done so, but I have no recollection of it. Upon further crossexamination, he said he had not sent said dispatch, nor had he
any recollection that he authorized McComb .to send it in his
name." He further testified, on cross-examination, that he
told McComb that De Bardeleben, for whose wife and children
Wadsworth was trustee, "wanted money very badly, and that
he wanted it as soon as possible; that he told McComb this
while talking to him about the sale of said notes." Why
Adams felt obliged to inform McComb of his principal's urgent
need for money does not appear .from the evidence.
De Bardeleben replied, on the 29th of March, to Adams's
Philadelphia telegram of the 28th in these words: "You are
too late. Have disposed of the notes." Adams telegraphed
to De Bardeleben, under date of the 30th : "You are too late.
You gave me explicit authority to sell at certain price, you to
pay my commission. I wired you an offer I had below price
you had named. You answered you could not accept offer,
but said nothing about withdrawal of my authority to sell. I
then sold to J. J. McComb, of Dobbs' Ferry, New York, on
terms authorized by you, and you should confirm that sale
forthwith. Answer." Under date of March 31, De Bardele-

WADSWORTH v. ADAMS.
Statement of the Case.

ben telegraphed to Adams: "Your effort to beat me down in
price has lost you the notes; will write." To this Adams.
replied by telegram, under date of April 2: "Assumptions of
your dispatch wholly unfounded; no effort to beat you down;
reported you the offer had. Your refusing the first offer led
me to dispose of the notes at your offer, which I did, and so
reported to you." The plaintiff received from De Bardeleben,
two or three days after it was written, the following letter,
under date of March 31: "I telegraphed you this A.M.: 'Your
effort to beat me down in price has lost you the notes; will
write,' which I now confirm. When you left me on the hotel
piazza you said that if Gov. Smith pronounced the papers all
right you would take one-half and McComb the balance, you'
to telegraph me so soon as you got home. When I received
your telegram offering me three hundred and fifty thousand
dollars, I saw you were trying to make me take as little as
you could, which was not in accordance with our understanding, so I at once took steps to sell to another party, which I
have done. I am very sorry it has turned out so, as I expected
to have "youin my big coal company that I am now forming,
you to do the financiering and I to get the property in shape,
by which each would have made a quarter of a million dollars.
I very much regret that it looks as though we will not be
interested together."
It should be stated in this connection that when iDe Bardeleben received the telegram offering $350,000, and the telegram of March 28 from New York, requesting an answer to
the New York telegram of the 27th, he was in conversation
with Colonel Engley, who offered $380,000 for the notes. T~e
offer was immediately accepted. So that the notes were so d
by iDe Bardeleben before he received the telegram from Adas'
that he had sold them on the terms originally named to him. \'*
Touching the first interview between Adams and McComb
on the 27th in New York, the latter, a witness for the former,
said: "That he was acquainted with the parties to this suit;
that he had'known the -plaintiff,'Theodore Adams, for. thirty-five years; that he made a contract with Adams in New York
fity on the 27th day of March, 1883, for the purchase, through

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

him, of five notes made by the Pratt Coal and Coke Company,
payable to Frank L. Wadsworth, as trustee, in the sum of one
hundred thousand dollars each; that by the terms of his said
contract with Adams he (witness) was to take said notes at
eight per cent per annum discount; that the proposition by
Adams to sell witness said notes was made in his (witness's)
office, No. 35 Broadway, New York city, on the 27th of March,
1883; that he did not accept the proposition immediately, but
set his book-keeper to work on a careful calculation as to what
the result would be to him (witness) on the said notes, if he
purchased them on the terms offered, and on the supposition
that he (witness) should borrow the money at six per cent to
carry the transaction; that while this calculation was being
made he discussed the matter with Adams, and suggested that
he (Adams) should telegraph an offer of a lump sum of three
hundred and fifty thousand dollars for the five notes of one
hundred thousand dollars each, which Adams, after some hesitation, did; that afterwards, and before parting, witness told
Adams that if this offer was declined he wculd take the notes
on the terms offered, namely, eight per cent per annum discount, and that in either case he (witness) was the purchaser of
the notes; that Adams told him he was authorized to make the
sale; that all this transpired in his office, No. 35 Broadway,
New York city, at one interview."
The court charged the jury, among other things, that "the
plaintiff was a special agent, clothed with special power to sell
the five notes at a price specified by De Bardeleben, and that
if when the plaintiff, on March 27, 1883, first offered to sell
said notes at said specified price to J. J. McComb, the said
McComb did not express any acceptance of the offer, but told
plaintiff: to telegraph to said De Bardeleben a lump offer of
three hundred and fifty thousand dollars, and also told plaintiff that if De Bardeleben declined that offer he (McComb)
would take the notes at the price originally specified by De
Bardeleben, amounting to three hundred and eighty thousand
dollars; if afterwards, and in the same interview on said
March 27, 1883, said McComb, in relation to said five notes,
told plaintiff that if the said offer of three hundred and fifty

WADSWORTH v. ADAMS.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

thousand dollars was declined, he (McComb) would take the
notes on the terms first offered, viz., eight per cent discount,
and that in either case he (McComb) was the purchaser of.the
notes, all this amounted to a conditional offer only to take the
notes at the specified price first offered, and did not impose
upon the plaintiff the duty or obligation to communicate to
his principal the fact that McComb was ready ahd willing to
buy the notes at the said price at which they were first offered,
amounting to three hundred and eighty thousand dollars; and
the failure of plaintiff to communicate that fact in any manner to his principal was not a breach of his duty nor bad faith
in itself, as he was only a special agent to sell at a fixed,
specified price, and not an agent to get the best price he could
obtain." To this charge, and to each proposition contained
in it, the defendant duly excepted. Among the requests by
defendant for instructions was one to the effect that if the
jury believed all the evidence, their verdict should be in his,
favor. The court refused to so instruct the jury, and to it
ruling in that respect the defendant excepted.
-Mr. John T. 3organ for plaintiff in error, submitted on his.
brief.
Mr. A. H. Wintersteen (Hr,. David D. Smiik and 3Mfr
Wayne .fc Jeagh were on the brief) for defendant in error.
The court below correctly charged that Adams was a special
agent, as distinguished from a general agent. The agency
was to sell the notes at eight per cent discount per annumIt was undisputed that De Bardeleben employed Adams to.
sell the nofes, and it is very clear this act of employment was.
within the scope of his own agency, for it was a necessarymeans of rendering his agency effective. William8 v. Getty,
31 Penn. St. 461; . C. 72 Am. Dec. 757.
The plaintiff in error is therefore wide of the mark in endeavoring at length to establish from the evidence that therewas nothing to show that Adams was Wadsworth's special
agent. All that is necessarily in the case in this connection.
is that Adams was a subagent lawfully employed by De BarVOL. cxxxvni-25

OCTOBER TERMf, 1890.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

deleben. Wadsworth was then liable to carry out with
Adams what De Bardeleben stipulated.
So, also, the jury were correctly instructed that, if the facts
in evidence were believed there was no fraud or breach of duty
on the part of Adams in failing to report the willingness of
McComb to buy at the authorized price, if the lower price of
$350,000 was declined.
The whole argument of the plaintiff in error in assailing
this feature of the charge is postulated upon the theory that
Adams was a general agent, with authority to get the best
price possible, and that any communication to the vendor of
a lower price than the best was a fraud.
So far is this theory without basis, that Adams was in fact,
the price having been fixed by the vendor, practically merely
a middleman to bring the parties together at.that price, a comnission accruing to him in the event of sale. The general
rule is that an agent whose duty it is to bring the parties
together may act for both parties without their knowledge
-?upp v. Sa~pson, 16 Gray, 398; S. C. 77 Am.
or consent.
Dec. 416; Collins v. Fowker, 8 Mo. App. 588; Orton v. Scofeld,
61 Wisconsin, 382. Adams's acquiescence in fNcComb's request
to communicate his offer of $350,000 was therefore quite compatible with his duty to De B1tafeleben.
But, suppQsingj for-argument's sake, there had been a breach
of duty on-the part of Adams. He would-not thereby forfeit
his commissions, but would merely have been liable to pay
such damages as resulted from his breach; and inasmuch as
no damages resulted, he would be entitled to the full commissions agreed to be paid. In the following cases agents had
authority to sell for'a fixed price. They sold for sums in
excess of the fixed'price and retained the difference, together
with the agent's commissions. It was held that the principal
was .bound to the agent -only for the commission, and that the
latter was entitled to the commission. li7bourn v. Sunderland,
130 U. S. 505; Blanchardv. Ap.r, 101 Indiana, 542: i7Zerfoot_
v. I-yman, 52 Illinois, 512; -Merryman v. David, 31 Illinois.404.
W
When the agent defrauds his principal, the principal can-

WADSWORTH v. ADAMS.
Opinion of the Court.

recover only the damages sustained.

.McMillan v. Arthur,

98 N. Y. 161.
MR. JusTicE HARL&x, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
We cannot give our assent to the proposition that Adams,
being a special agent only, was not guilty of a breach of duty
in withholding from his principal information of the fact that
McComb was willing to take the notes at a discount of eight
per cent per annum, that is, for $380,000, provided he could
not get them for $350,000. That fact came to his knowledge
before he and McComb separated on the 27th of March, and
good. faith, upon his part, required that he should at once,
with the utmost dispatch, have communicated it to his principal, and not have permitted him- pressed for money, as
Adams knew him to be and as he took care to inform McComb
he was - to consider the offer of $350,000 in the belief that
that was the highest price his agent could obtain for the notes.
The agreement to pay the latter ten thousand dollars, if he
negotiated a sale of them at a discount of eight per cent per
annum, was in consideration of his endeavoring to dispose of
them upon those terms. It was a condition precedent to his
right to such compensation that the services he undertook to
render should be faithfully performed. If his principal had
accepted the offer of $350,000, he would have lost $30,000 by
reason of the con~ealment or the withholding by his agent of
the fact that the party making the offer intended to accede to
the principal's terms, if he could not do better. , In effect,
Adams abandoned the position of agent for De Bardeleb.en to
negotiate the notes for a specified sum, and, practically, co'perated with McComb in the latter's effort to get them at a
sum less than De Bardeleben" had authorized the agent to
accept. -He conducted himself as if he were more interested
in McComb than in his principal. We have seen that when
he learned, on the 28th, by telegram from his principal, that
McComb's offer of $350,000 was rejected, he immediately, on
the same day, telegraphed, from Philadelphia, to De Bardele-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

ben that he had negotiated the notes on the terms originally
given him- that is, for $380,000. As he testifies that he did
not, after parting from McComb in iNew York, in the afternoon of the 27th, see or have any communication with the
latter in relation to the notes or their sale or purchase, it could
not be true that he had, himself, on the 28th, or before being
notified of the sale by De Bardeleben, negotiated a sale for
$380,000, unless, as stated by McComb, it was understood
between him and Adams, before they separated on the 27th,
that McComb was to take the notes at $380,000 if his offer of
$350,000 was not accepted by De Bardeleben. So that, for
every substantial purpose, involving the interests of the principal, the agent did precisely what he would have done if he
had expressly, and for compensation, stipulated with McComb
that, pending the latter's efforts, through the agent, to induce
the principal to part with the notes for $350,000, he would
conceal from his principal the fact that, by remaining firm,
he could get $380,000 from McComb.
We cannot agree that such conduct upon the part of Adams
was consistent with the duty he owed to his principal in virtue
of his agency for the sale of the notes. He abused the confidence reposed in him, and thereby lost the right to claim the
stipulated compensation of ten thousand dollars or any other
sum. Sea v. Carpenter, 16 Ohio, 412, 418; Story on Agency,
§ 331. He cannot complain of the sale to Ensley, for the reason, if there were no other, that his telegram of the 27th gave
no intimation of his purpose to make further effort to negotiate the notes upon the terms originally given him. .On the
contrary, in view of all the circumstances, De Bardeleben
might not unreasonably have supposed, from that telegram,
that the offer of $350,000 was the highest that Adams could
obtain, and that nothing better was to be expected from his
efforts. Be that as it may, we are of.opinion that Adams was
not 6ntitled to any compensation under the contract upon
which he sues, and that the court should have so instructed
the jury in accoirdance with the defendant's request. He is no
. more entitled to compensation than a broker will be entitled
to commissions who, having undertaken to sell particular prop-"

BROWN v. TROUSDALE.
Syllabus.

erty for the best price that could be fairly obtained for it, becomes, without the knowledge of his principal, the agent of

another to get it for him at the lowest possible price. The
assumption of the latter position would be a fraud upon the
vendor who is entitled, in such cases, to the benefit of- the diligence, zeal and disinterested exertions of the agent in the execution of his employment. The law requires the strictest good
faith upon the part of one occupying a relation of confidence
to anothe. .0ibourn v. Sunderland,130 U. S. 505, 519; Story
on Agency, §§ 31, 211; Frarnswiorthv. Hemmer, 1 Allen, 4941;
Rice v. Wood, 113 M ass. 133; Scribner v. Collar, 40 Michigan,
375, 378; Raisin v. Ozark, 41 Maryland, 158; Lynch v. Fallon,
11 R. I. 311.
The judgment is reversed, and the cause remanded for further jroceedings in conformity with this opinion.

BROWN v. TROUSDALE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 158.

Argued January 22, 23, 1891.-Decided February 2, 1891.

A large number of taxpayers in Muhlenburgh County, Kentucky, filed their
bill against the officers of the county, and against two holders of bonds of
the county, one holding "original" bonds issued to pay a county subscription to stock in a railway company, the other holding "compromise"
bonds issued in lieu of some of the "original" bonds. . The relief
sought was to restrain the sheriff from levying a tax already ordered,
and to restrain the county judge from making future levies, and to have
both classes of bonds declared invalid, afid the holders enjoined from collecting principal or interest, and that notice might be given to unknown
bondholders, and for general relief. A large number of the bonds of
each class were held by citizens of Kentucky. The two bondholders,
defendants, (who were taxpayers in the county,) declined to make defence. Bondholders, citizens of Tennessee, then voluntarily appeared
and asked to be made parties, and, their prayer being granted, petitioned
in August, 1885, for the removal of the cause to the Circuit Court of the
United States on the ground that there was a controversy that was
wholly between citizens of different States, and which could be fully

