ELKUS, PETITIONER..
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

petition below and to grant the relief therein prayed for, and
therefore we
Reverse the order of that court denying the petition, and remand
the causefor further proceedings in conformity with law.

ELKUS, PETITIONER. (IN THE MATTER OF THE
MADSON STEELE COMPANY, BANKRUPT.)
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIICUIT COURTR''

OF AI''EALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.,
No. 238.

Argued November 29, 1909.-Decided February 21, 1910.

On the authority of Babbitt '.Dutcher, ante, p. 102, held that:
A court of bankruptcy has jurisdiction to grant an order for examination of a witness who resides in that district although the bankrupt
proceedings in which the examination is desired are being administered in another district.
The respective District Courts of the United States sitting in bankruptcy have ancillar' jurisdiction to make orders and issue process
in aid of proceedings pending and being administered in the District
Court of another district.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Abram I. Elkus pro se, with whom Mr. Carlisle J.
Gleason was on the brief, for the petitioner.
There was no appearance for any other party.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE

FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The certificate, with the accompanying statement of facts,

is as follows:
"On the 28th day of February, 1908, a petition in involun-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

tary bankruptcy was filed in the United States District Court

for the Northern District of Illinois, against the Madson Steele
Company, and in due course the said corporation was adjudicated a bankrupt, and Frank M. McKey was appointed its
trustee in bankruptcy.
"Application was made to the United States'District Court
for the Southern District of New York for an authorization to
examine, pursuant to the provision of section 21a of the national bankruptcy act, the officers of a New York corporation
which it was alleged had, within four months prior to the filing
of the petition in bankruptcy received a payment under circunistances which would permit of recovery by the trustee in
bankruptcy as a voidable preference. These officers were
residents of the Southern District of New York.
"The application in the Southern District of New York was
made on behalf of the trustee of the bankrupt's estate, which
was being administered in the Northern District of Illinois,
and the order proposed for signature required the examination
of witnesses within the jurisdiction of the District Court for the
Southern District of New York and the production of books
and vouchers which contained transactions between the bankrupt corporation and the New York corporation.
"The United States District Court for the Southern District
of New York refused to direct the appearance and examination
of the said witnesses on the ground that it had no jurisdiction
to grant an order for examination in a proceeding which was
not pending within its own district, and from the order denying the right to examine the petition to review was taken to
this court.
"The questions submitted are:
"I. Did the United States District Court for the Southern
District of New York have jurisdiction to grant an order for
the exaiination of witnesses, who were residents of that district, when the bankrupt proceedings in which the examination
was desired were being administered in the Northern District
of Illinois?

WOODSIDE v. BECKHAM.
216 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

"II. Have the respective District Courts of the United
States sitting in bankruptcy ancillary jurisdiction to make
orders and issue process in aid of proceedings pending and
being administered in the District Court of another district?"
On the authority of Babbitt, Trustee, v. Dutcher, just decided, ante, p. 102, we answer both questions in the affirniative, and it will be
So certified.

WOODSIDE v. BECKHAM.1
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN I)ISTRIC'I OF IOWA.

No. 56.

Argued December 9, 1909.-Decided February 21, 1910.

Where a plaintiff sues as assignee of several claims, but is not in fact
the owner of all the claims sued upon, and none of the claims is
sufficient in amount to confer jurisdiction on the Federal court,

that court has no jurisdiction and should dismiss the case for that
reason although the assigned claims may in the aggregate exceed
the jurisdictional amount.
142 Fed. Rep. 167, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. John R. Smith, with whom Mr. Hartley B. Woods was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The Circuit Court had jurisdiction. The judgments against
the corporation on which the bill is based were, valid under
the state law and the assignee had title to all the judgments
and could maintain an action against the directors therefor as
in the aggregate the claims exceeded $2,000. Bowden v.
Burnham, 59 Fed. Rep. 752; Chase v. Sheldon Roller-Mills, 56

'Original docket title: Woodside v. Vasey. December 9, 1909.
Suggestion of death of Vasey and substitution of Beckham.

