OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Case.

216 U. S.

BABBITT, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY, v. DUTCHER.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 39.

Argued November 29, 1909.-Decided February 21, 1910.

Corporate records and stock-books of a corporation adjudicated a
bankrupt pass to the trustee and, where there is no adverse holding,
the bankruptcy court can compel their delivery by summary pro-

ceeding.
In a case in which the original court of bankruptcy can act summarily, another court of bankruptcy, sitting in another district,
can do so in aid of the court of original jurisdiction.
THE Randolph-Macon Coal Company was a Missouri corporation, and was duly adjudicated a bankrupt March 26,
1907, in proceedings instituted in the District Court of the
United States, in and for the Eastern Division of the Eastern
Judicial District of Missburi. Byron F. Babbitt was duly
appointed trustee in bankruptcy for the corporation May 10,.
1907, "and duly qualified by giving bonid on that day.
He thereafter made demand upon the president of the
company for the delivery to him of the corporate records and
stock books-of the bankrupt company, which were kept in
the office maintained by the company in New York city.
This request was refused by letter of the president of the
company, dated.September 24, 1907,.%in which he says that
he is advised "that such records and stock books are not
documents relating to the property of the bankrupt, and
therefore you, as trustee in bankruptcy, are not entitled to
their possession."
Thereupon the trustee made application to the District
Court in and for the Southern District of New York, by peti-

BABBITT v. DUTCHER.
216 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

tion,. for an order directing James T. Gardiner, the president,
and Howard Dutcher, the secretary, of the company, or either
of them, to deliver to him the stock-certificate book, the
corporation minute book and the stock register of said company, together with all other records and documents belonging
to said company in their possession or under their control.
Gardiner and Dutcher were' within the jurisdiction of the
District Court for the Southern District of New York, and
the books and papers referred to were within their custody
there, and the trustee alleged that the stock-certificate book,
the corporation minute book, and the stock register book were
necessary to the trustee in his administration and settlement
of the affairs of the company.
Thereafter a hearing was had on the petition, the order
to show cause and return thereto, and the District' Judge
(Holt, J.) endorsed on the petition: "I am obliged to deny
this motion on *the authority of In re Von Hartz et al., 142
Fed. Rep. 726," and ordered that the motion be denied on
the ground that the court was without jurisdiction to entertain the proceeding, or to grant the relief prayed for, and the
District Judge also certified that the order denying the motion
and refusing to grant the relief was based solely on the ground
that the court was without'jurisdiction "to entertain pro-

ceedings instituted by a trustee ih bankruptcy duly appointed in a bankruptcy proceeding pending in another district, to compel the officers of the bankrupt to deliver to such
trustee the documents in their possession relating to the'
business of the bankrupt."
This appeal was then allowed and duly prosecuted.
Mr. William B. Hornblower, with whom Mr. Morgan M.
Mann was on the brief, for appellant:
The title to all books and papers relating to the business
of the bankrupt was vested in the trustee. Subd. 1, § 70,
and subd. 13, of § 1 of the bankrupt act. See Matter of Hess,
134 Fed. Rep. 109; Mueller v. Nugent, 184 U. S. 1. And, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Appellee.

216 U. S.

held in that case, it.is proper to resort to summary proceedings in the bankrupt court rather than to replevin in the
state court.
The District Court in New York had jurisdiction to entertain this proceeding and grant the relief prayed for. The
act of 1898 in this respect is similar to the act of 1867. And
see Lathrop v. Drake, 91 U. S. 516; Sherman v. Bingham,
Fed. Cas. 12,762; Goodall-v. Tuttle, Fed. Cas. 5,533; McGehee
v. Hentz, Fed. Cas. 8,794; Re Tifft, Fed. Cas. 14,034; Payson
v. Dietz, Fed. Cas. 10,861; Re Benedict, 140 Fed. Rep. 55;
Re Peiser, 115 Fed. Rep, 199; Re Sutter Bros., 131 Fed. Rep.
654, distinguishing Re Williams, 173 Fed. Rep. 3 1, and Re
Nelson Co., 149 Fed. Rep. 590. See also Loveland on Bankruptcy, 3d ed., § 21. Re Von Hartz, 142 Fed. Rep. 726, to
effect that ancillary jurisdiction does not exist, and which
controlled the decision in this case, was erroneously decided
by the Circuit Court of Appeals; nor does Re Wood & Henderson, 210 U. S. 246, apply. Denying ancillary jurisdiction renders the enforcement of the bankruptcy act difficult; in some
cases it practically nullifies the act.
In two recent decisions, Re Dunseath, 168 Fed. Rep. 973,
and Re Dempster, 172 Fed. Rep. 353, ancillary jurisdiction of
the bankruptcy court was sustained and there is no decision
of this court adverse to such jurisdiction. Bardes v. Hawarden
Bank, 178 U. S. 524; White v. Schloerb, 178 U. S. 542; Bryan
v. Bernheimer, 181 U. S. 188; Mueller v. Nugent, 184 U. S. 1;
Jaquith v. Rowley, 188 U. S. 620; Re Wood & Henderson, 210
U. S. 246, do not hold that ancillary jurisdiction does not
exist.
Mr. Henry W. Taft for appellee:
The trustee in bankruptcy has not the title to the books
and cannot compel their delivery in summary proceedings
even in the original. district of the bankruptcy. The title of
the trustee to the books is disputed.
The District Court has no ancillary jurisdiction on applica-

BABBITT v. DUTCHER.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion of a trustee in bankruptcy appointed by another District
Court to compel by summary order the delivery to him of
property of ihe bankrupt. Foundry Co. v. Car Co., 124 Fed.
Rep. 403; Re Tybo Mining Co., 132 Fed. Rep. 697; Re Benedict, 140 Fed. Rep. 55; Ex parte Martin, 16 Fed. Cas. 874;
Re Richardson, 20 Fed. Cas. 696; Markson v. Heaney, 16 Fed.
Cas. 769; Sherman v. Bingham, 21 Fed. Cas. 1,270; Goodall
v. Tuttle, 10 Fed. Cas. 579; Lathrop V. Drake, 91 U. S. 516;
Re Tifft, 23 Fed. Cas. 1,213.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,

after making the foregoing

statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
Subdivisi'on 1 of § 70 of the bankruptcy act of 1898 provides that the trustee of the estate of a bankrupt shall be
vested by operation of law, as of the date of the adjudication,
with the title of the bankrupt (a 1) to all "documents relating to his property," and subdivision 13 of § 1 of the act
provides that " 'documents' shall include any book, deed,
or instrument in writing."
Respondents, as officers of the bankrupt company, asserted
no adverse claim, but denied that the corporate records and
stock books were "documents relating to the property of the
bankrupt," and asserted that therefore the trustee in bankruptcy was not entitled to their possession.
We have no doubt that the books and records in question
passed, on adjudication, to the trustee, and belong in the
custody of the bankruptcy court,. and, there being no adverse
holding, that the bankruptcy court had power upon a petition
and rule to show cause to compel their delivery to the trustee.
Bryan v.-Bernheimer, 181 U. S. 188; Mueller v,,Nugent, 184
U.S. 1; Louisville Trust Company v. Corn ingor, 184 U. S. 18;
First National Bank v. Title & Trust Company, 198 U. S. 280;
Whitney v. Wenman, 198 U. S. 539.

This brings us to the real question in the case and upon
which the decision was rendered, namely, whether the District

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

Court of the United States in and for the Southern District
of New York had jurisdiction to entertain this particular
proceedirfig and grant the relief prayed for..
In Ex parte Martin, 16 Fed. Cas. 874, decided in 1842, Mr.
Justice Story, sitting on circuit, held that the equity jurisdiction of the District Courts, under the bankruptcy act of
1841, was not confined to cases originally arising and pending in the particular court where the relief was sought, and
where a creditor living in Massachusetts commenced suits in
several States other than Pennsylvania where proceedings
were pending against the bankrupt for an adjudication, that
an injunction would issue against the Massachusetts creditor
enjoining him from proceeding in the suits. Mr. Justice Story
said:
"The language of the sixth section of the act is: 'That the
District Court in every district shall have jurisdiction in all
matters and proceedings in bankruptcy arising under the
act,' the said jurisdiction to be exercised summarily, in the
nature of summary proceedings in equity. The act then goes
on to enumerate certain specific cases and controversies, to
what the jurisdiction extends (which I deem merely affirmative, and not restrictive of the preceding clause); and then it
extends the jurisdiction 'to all acts, matters and things to be
done under, and in virtue of the bankruptcy, until the final
,distribution and settlement of the estate of the bankrupt,
and the close of the proceedings in bankruptcy.' Now, this
language is exceedingly broad and general; and it is not in
terms, or by fair implication, necessarily confined to cases
of bankruptcy originally instituted, and pending in the
particular District Court, where the relief is sought., On the
contrary, it is not unnatural to presume, that as cases, originally instituted and pending in one district, may apply- to
reach persons and property situate in other districts, and
require auxiliary proceedings therein to perfect and accomplish the objects of the act, the intention of Congress was,
that the District Courts in every district should be mutually

BABBITT v. DUTCHER.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

auxiliary to each other for such purposes and proceedings.
The language of the act is sufficiently comprehensive to cover
such cases; and I can perceive no solid ground of objection
to such an interpretation of it."
Section 1 of the bankruptcy act of 1867 and § 2 of the
bankruptcy act of 1898 are substantially identical as to the
jurisdiction of the District Courts sitting as courts of bankruptcy, as will appear from the following comparison:
Section 1 of the Bankruptcy Section 2 of the Bankruptcy
Act of 1898:
Act of 1867:
"That the several district
courts of the United States
be, and they hereby are
constituted courts of bankruptcy, and they shall have
original jurisdiction in their
respective districts in all matters and proceedings in bankruptcy, antd they ae hereby
authorized to heat and adjudiate upon the same according to the provisions of
this act.
jurisdiction
"And
the
hereby conferred shall extend.
"To
the collection of
all the assets of the bankrupt
and to all acts,
riatters, and things to he
done under and in vir tue of
the bankruptcy,, until the
final distribution and settlement of the estate of the

"That the courts of bankruptcy as hereinbefore defined, viz:, the district courts
of the -United States in the
several- States, the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, the District Courts of
the several Territories, and
the United States courts in
the Indian Territory and the
District of Alaska, are hereby
made courts of bankruptcy,
and are hereby invested, within their respective territorial
limits as now established, or
as they may be hereafter
changed, with such jurisdictioi at law and in equity as
will enable them to exercise
original ,iurislictio in bankruptcy proceedigs, in vacation in chambers and during
their respective terns, as they
are now or may be hereafter

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court,

216 U. S.

bankrupt, and the close of

held, to

the proceedings
ruptcy."

the estates of bankrupts to be
collected, reduced to money
and distributed, and determine controversies in relation thereto, except as herein
otherwise provided;
(15) make such orders, issue
such process, an(l enter such
judgments in addition to
those specifically provided for
as may be necessayy for the
enforcement ofthe provisions
of this act;
Nothing in this section contained shall be construed to
deprive a court of bankruptcy of any power it would
possess were certain specific
powers not herein enumerated."

in bank-

.

.

.

(7)

cause

In Sherrm*an v. Bingham, Fed., Cas. No. 12,762; 21 Fed.
Cas. 1,270, Mr. Justice Clifford, sitting on circuit, and construing the act of 1867, reversed the judgment of the District Court, which held that an assignee in bankruptcy of
a person declared a bankrupt in one District Court could not
maintain an action to recovei moneys paid the defendants,
residents of another district, in the District Court of such
district. And Mr. Justice Clifford said:
"District Courts hai'e original jurisdiction in their respective
districts in all matters and proceedings in bankruptcy, and
the argument is, that inasmuch as the jurisdiction must be
exercised in the district for which the district judge is appointed, the District Court, sitting as a court of bankruptcy,
cannot exercise jurisdiction in any case except in the district

BABBITT v. DUTCHER.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

where the bankruptcy proceedings are pending; but § 1 of
the bankrupt act contains no such limitation, nor does it contain any words which, properly considered, justify any such
conclusion.
"General superintendence and jurisdiction of all cases and
questions under the act are conferred upon the several Circuit
Courts, except where special provision is otherwise made by
the first clause of § 2 of the act; but the subsequent language
of the same clause makes it clear that the jurisdiction conferred by that clause can only be exercised within and for the
district 'where the proceedings in bankruptcy shall be pending.' No such limitation, however, is found in the clause of
§ 1, conferring jurisdiction upon the District Courts as courts
of bankruptcy. Judges of the District Courts must sit undoubtedly in the districts for which they are respectively
appointed, and no doubt is entertained that the process of the
court in proceedings in bankruptcy cases, is restricted to the
territorial limits of the district; but the language of § 1 of the
bankrupt act describing the jurisdiction of the District Courts,
sitting as courts of bankruptcy, is, that they shall have original
jurisdiction in their respective districts, 'in all matters and
proceedings in' bankruptcy,' showing unquestionably that
they can only sit and exercise jurisdiction in their own districts; but the limitation that the proceedings in bankruptcy
must in all cases be pending in that district, is not found in
that clause of § 1 of the act. On the contrary, the 'same
section provides that the jurisdiction conferred, that is, the
jurisdiction of the several District Courts, shall extend to all
cases and controversies arising between the bankrupt and any
creditor, or creditors, who shall claim any debt- or demand
under the bankruptcy act, and also to the collection of all
the assets of the bankrupt, to the ascertainment and liquidation of the liens, and other specific claims thereon, to the
adjustment of the various priorities and conflicting interests
of all parties, and to the marshalling and disposition of all
the different funds and assets, so as to secure the rights of all

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of.the Court.

216 U. S.

parties, and the due distribution of the assets among all the
creditors, and to all acts, matters and things to be done under
and in virtue of the bankruptcy."
In Lathrop v. Drake, 91 U. S. 516, 517, the question of the
ancillary 'jurisdiction of the District Court under the act of
1867 was considered, and the decision in Sherman v. Bingham
approved. Mr. Justice Bradley, delivering the opinion, said:
"Their jurisdiction is confined to their respective districts,
it is true; but it extends to all matters and proceedings in
bankruptcy without limit. When the act says that they shall
have jurisdiction in their respective districts, it means that
the jurisdiction is to be exercised in their respective districts.
Each court within its own district may exercise the powers
conferred; but those powers extend to all matters of bankruptcy, without limitation. There are, it is true, limitations
elsewhere in the act; but they affect only the matters to which
they relate. Thus, by § 11, the petition in bankruptcy, and
by consequence the proceedings thereon, must be addressed
to the judge of the judicial district in which the debtor has
resided, or carried on business, for the six months next preceding; and the District Court of that district, being entitled
to and having acquired jurisdiction of the particular cascj
necessarily has such jurisdiction exclusive of all other District Courts, so far as the proceedings in bankruptcy are
concerned. But the exclusion of other District Courts from
jurisdiction over these proceedings does not prevent them
from exercising jurisdiction in matters growing out of or
connected with that identical bankruptcy, so far as it does
not trench upon or conflict with the jurisdiction of the court
in which the case is pending. Proceedings ancillary to and in
aid of the proceedings in bankruptcy may be necessary in
other districts where the principal court cannot exercise
jurisdiction; and it may be necessary for the assignee to
institute suits in other districts for the recovery of assets of
the bankrupt. That the courts of such other districts may
exercise jurisdiction in such cases would seem to be-the nec-

BABBITT v. DUTCHER.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

essary result of the general jurisdiction conferred upon them,
and is in harmony with the scope and design of the act. The
state courts umay undoubtedly be resorted to in cases of ordinary suits for the possession of property or the collection of
debts; and it is not to be presumed that cmnbarrassn leits
would be encountered in those courts in the way of a prompt
amid fair adnministration of justice. But a uniform system of
bankruptcy, national in its character, ought to be capabh of
execution in the national tribunals, without dependence upon
those of the States in which it is possible that embarrwssmmcits
might arise. The question has been quite fully and satisfactorily discussed by a member of this court in the First
Circuit, in the case of Sherman v. BIinghavm, 7 Bank. Reg.
490; and we concur in the opinion there expressed, that the
several District Courts have jurisdiction of suits brought by
assignees appointed by other District Courts in cases of
bankruptcy."
The same question was considered in Goodall v. Tuttle,
Fed. Cas. No. 5,533; 10 Fed. Cas. 579, which arose under
the act of 1867, and the same conclusion reached, as also in
McGehee v. Heniz, Fed. Cas. No. 8,794; 16 Fed. Cas. 103,
and In re Tifft, Fed. Cas. No. 14,034; 23 Fed. Cas. 1,213.
On the authority of these decisions it must be and is conceded that under the bankruptcy acts of 1841 and 1867
ancillary jurisdiction, both in summary proceedings and in
plenary suits, existed in all District Courts within their respective districts; and the question really is whether the provisions of the act of 1898 are to the contrary, or, as appellee's
counsel puts it, show an intention on the part of Congress
to restrict such jurisdiction so as to cut off the inferences
drawn fromi the language of the earlier acts.
But neither the act of 18(;7, nor the act of 1898, expressly
confers or expressly negatives ancillary jurisdiction in courts
other than the court of adjudication. The provisions as to
summary jurisdiction in the two acts are substantially identical, and it appears to us should receive the same construction.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

In re Benedict, 140 Fed. Rep. 55; In re Peiser, 115 Fed. Rep.
199; In re Sutter Bros., 131 Fed. Rep. 654; In re Nelson Company, 149 Fed. Rep. 590.
It is, however, urged that the act of 1898 contains restrictive
provisions as to the jurisdiction of both the Circuit and District Courts which weaken the force of the reasoning of the
decisions based upon the general language of the earlier
statutes. Subdivision 7 of § 2 of the act of 1898 confers
pow(r to "cause th(. estates of bankrupts. to be collected,
reduced to ioii.y and distibuted, and determine controversies in relation thereto, except as herein otherwise provi(led." And it is said that the following provisions of .§23
should be regarded as coming within the exception and
operating to restrict the jurisdiction:
"(a) The United States Circuit Courts shall have jurisdiction of all controversies at law and in equity, as distinguished
from proceedings in bankruptcy, between trustees as such,
and adverse claimants concerning the property acquired or
claimed by the trustees, in the same manner and to the same
extent only as though bankruptcy proceedings had not been
instituted and such controversies had been between the bankrupts and such adverse claimants.
"(b) Suits by the trustees shall only be brought or prosecuted in the courts where the bankrupt, whose estate is being
administered by such trustee, might have brought or prosecuted them if proceedings in bankruptcy had not been instituted, unless by consent of the proposed defendant, except
suits for the recovery of property under § 60, subdivision b,
and §67, subdivision e."
Section 60, subdivision b, refers to preferences given within
four months before the filing of the petition in bankruptcy,
and provides that they may be recovered by the trustee, and
further: "And, for the purpose of such -ecovery, any court
of bankruptcy, as hereinbefore defined, and any state court
which would have had jurisdiction if bankruptcy had not
intervened, shall have concurrent jurisdiction."

BABBITT v. DUTCHER.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Section 67, subdivision e, provides that conveyances in
fraud of creditors shall be null and void, and that it shall be
the duty of the trustee to sue to recover the property conveyed, and that "for the purpose of such recovery, any court
of bankruptcy, as hereinbefore defined, and any state court
which would have jurisdiction if bankruptcy had not intervened, shall have concurrent jurisdiction."
But the general jurisdiction was not restricted by these
provisions, though they operated to mitigate the rigor of the
rule laid down in the Bardes case.
There are two classes of cases arising under the act of 1898
and controlled by different principles. The first class is where
there is a claim of adverse title to property of the bankrupt,
based upon a transfer antedating the bankruptcy. The other
class is where there is no claim of adverse title based on any
transfer prior to the bankruptcy, but where the property is
in- the physical possession of a third party or of an agent of
the bankrupt, or of an officer of a bankrupt corporation, who
refuses to deliver it to the trustee in bankruptcy.
In the former'class of cases a plenary suit must be brought,
either at law or in equity, by the trustee, in which the adverse
claim; of title can be tried and adjudicated.
In the latter class it is not necessary to bring a plenary suit,
but the bankruptcy court may act summarily and may make
an order in a summary proceeding for the delivery of the
property to the trustee, without the formality of a formal
litigation.
The former class falls within the ruling in the case of Bardes
v. Hawarden Bank, 178 U. S. 524, and in the case of Jaquith
v. Rowley, 188 U. S. 620, which hold that such a suit can be
brought only in a court which would have had jurisdiction of
a suit by the bankrupt against the adverse claimant, except
where the defendant consents to be sued elsewhere.
In the latter class of cases a plenary suit is not necessary,
but the case falls within the rule laid down in Bryan v. Bernheimer, 181 U. S. 188, and Mueller v. Nugent, 184 U. S. 1,
VOL. CCXVI-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

which held that the bankruptcy court could act summarily.
The question was not discussed as to whether a court other
than the court of adjudication could exercise this summary
jurisdiction.
The precise question before us on the present appeal is
whether in a case in which the original court of bankruptcy
could act summarily another court of bankruptcy, sitting in

another district, can do so in aid of the court of original
jurisdiction.
Judge Holt, after expressing an opinion upholding ancillary
jurisdiction, felt compelled to decide otherwise in this ease
on the authority of In re Von Hartz, 142 Fed. Rep. 72(i, decided by the United States Circuit Court of Al)peals for the
Second Circuit. It appears from the statement of the cae
in the opinion of the court in the matter of Von Hartz that the
proceeding was a summary application in which the appellant
had been directed to turn over to the trustee in bankruptcy
a policy of life insurance upon the life of the bankrupt, whieh
"had theretofore been assigned by Von Hartz to appellant."
It was not stated in the oIinion whether the assignment was
prior or subsequent to the proceedings in bankruptcy. If
prior thereto, then neither the court where the bankruptcy
proceedings were pending nor any other court could grant a
summary order disposing of the title of the adverse claimant
claiming title to the policy by assignment. That could only
be determined in a plenary suit, and would fall within the
rule in the Bardes and Jaquith cases. But if the assignment
was subsequent to the bankruptcy proceedings, then it would
be a nullity, and would be disregarded by the bankruptcy
court, and possession could be given to the trustee by a
summary order, as in the Bryan and Mueller cases.
There is no decision of this court adverse to the ancillary
jurisdiction of the District Courts as asked to be exercised
in this case.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion that the District Court
for the Southern District of New York had jurisdiction of the

ELKUS, PETITIONER..
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

petition below and to grant the relief therein prayed for, and
therefore we
Reverse the order of that court denying the petition, and remand
the causefor further proceedings in conformity with law.

ELKUS, PETITIONER. (IN THE MATTER OF THE
MADSON STEELE COMPANY, BANKRUPT.)
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIICUIT COURTR''

OF AI''EALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.,
No. 238.

Argued November 29, 1909.-Decided February 21, 1910.

On the authority of Babbitt '.Dutcher, ante, p. 102, held that:
A court of bankruptcy has jurisdiction to grant an order for examination of a witness who resides in that district although the bankrupt
proceedings in which the examination is desired are being administered in another district.
The respective District Courts of the United States sitting in bankruptcy have ancillar' jurisdiction to make orders and issue process
in aid of proceedings pending and being administered in the District
Court of another district.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Abram I. Elkus pro se, with whom Mr. Carlisle J.
Gleason was on the brief, for the petitioner.
There was no appearance for any other party.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE

FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The certificate, with the accompanying statement of facts,

is as follows:
"On the 28th day of February, 1908, a petition in involun-

