OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
216 U. S.

Syllabus.

reasons Stated in the opinion iin No. 450, Soulhern RBilway Co.
v. Greene, heconcurs in the judgment in No. 41i(.
Rieversed.
Dissenting:'THE

CHIEF JUSTICE,

,IUSTICE
MU1R.

MCKENNA

and MR.JUSTICE HOLMES.

WRIGHT, COMPTROLLEI GEl N I RAI, OF THE STATE
OF GEORGIA, .GEORGIA RAILROAD AND BANKING COMPANY.
APPEAL, FROM TIlE CIRCUIT-COURT OF TIlE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEOI(CA..
No. 70.

Argued January 11, 1910. --Decided February 21, 1910.

A special charter to a railroad corporation contained a provision of
exemption from taxation as follows: "The stock of the said company and its branches shall be exempt from taxation for and during
the term of seven years from and after the completion of the said
railroads, or any of them; and after that, shall be subject to a tax not
exceeding one-half of one per cent, per annum, on the net proceeds
.of their investments," in construing this provision held that:
The words "after that" are equivalent to the word "thereafter" and
.relate to the entire period of time after the expiration of the seven
years of total exemption, and are not to be construed as limited by
another provision in' the charter for a definite period during which
the corporation should have exclusive rights.
The capital stock of a corporation is the capital upon which the business is to be undertaken and is represented by property of every
kind-acquired by the company, while the shares are muere certifi.cates representing a subscriber's contribution to the, capital stock
and measuring his interest in the conpany. This distinction is obvious, although the words " stock " and " shares " are sometimes
used synonymously.
The stock exempted in this case was the capital or property, of the
corporation and not the shares of stock in the hands of the stockholders.
The Federal courts accord to a judgment of the state court only that
effect given to it by the courts of the State in which it was rendered;
and where the highest court of a State has held that a judgment in

WRIGHT v. GEORGIA R. R.. & B ANKING CO. 421
216 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

a tax suit is,not res judicatain a suit for taxes subsequently assessed
for another year, even though it must be decided on the same questions, this court will regard such a decisiqn only as an' authority and
determine the question on its merits.
Where the capital of a corporation is exempted from-taxation, except
as specified, the exemption continues even if-the property appreciates in value; and where, as in this case it is evident that the
legislature intended that the taxation of the corporation should be
measured by the income, the exemption will not be construed as
limited to the then value of the property so that natural increases
in value will be subject to any other method of, taxation than that
stipulated in the charter.
A law which imposes a-tax upon the franchise of a railroad company
whose property is exempt from taxation is a law in derogation of
the exemption contract.
An act of a state legislature attempting to tax the whole or any part of
the capital or franchise of a corporation, whose'charter contains an
express limitation and method of taxation such as in this case, by
any method other than that specified therein, impairs the obligation
of the charter and is uneonstitutibnal under the contract clause of
the Federal Constitution.
A state statute authorizing or directing the grant or transfer of the
privileges of a corporation which enjoys immunity from taxation
or regulation should not be interpreted as including that immunity
in the grant or transfer. Rochester Railway Co. v. Rochester, 205

U. S. 236, 252.
While an exemption from taxation enjoyed by a corporation which
acquires the franchises and property of another corporation may
not be affected as to property which it already possesses, such exemption does not apply to additional property so acquired, nor do the
exemptions enjoyed by the corporation whose property and franchise are acquired pass to the purchasing corporation.
The power of taxation is never to be regarded 'as surrendered or bargained away if there is room for rational doubt as to the purpose.
Where the decree is affirmed .but modified as to a substantial contention the costs of the appeal will be divided.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Samuel H. Sibley and Mr. John C. Hart, with whom
Mr. Hooper Alexander was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Joseph B. Cumming and Mr. Joseph R. Lamar, with

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

whom Mr. Alexander C. King; Mr. Boykin Wright and Mr.
Ligon Johnson, were on the brief, for appellee.
MR.

JUSTICE.LURTON

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill to restrain the enforcement of certain taxes
imposed by the State of Ge6rgia, which the railroad company
claims to be in violation of a contract between itself and the
State.. The court, below sustained the contention of the railroad company, and held that the scheme of taxation found
in the charter of the company was of inviolable obligation
and enjbined any method of taxation conflicting with the
stipulations of the charter; from this .decree the comptroller
has appealed.
Thecharter in questi6n was granted by the State of Ge6rgia
in 1833, a time long before the imposition of any restriction
upon the'power of the legislature of that State to stipulate
for either an entire of partial exemption from taxation. It
is, therefore, not denied by the State that the charter constitutes acontract which may not be impaired by subsequent
legislation. In view of this concession we are only called upon
to decide the extent of the chaxter exemption, and, incidentally, its duration.
The, controlling section of the charter is the fifteenth.
The part now relevant is as follows:
,,'The stock of the said company and its branches shall be
exempt from taxation for and during the term of seven years
from and after the completion of the said railroads, or any
of them; and after that, shal be subject to a tax not exceeding one-half of one per cent, ter annum, on the net proceeds
of their investments."
The period of absolute exemption has, of course, long since
passed.. The only question is as to the duration and extent
of the partial exemptionwhich followed.
That the property exempt altogether for seven. years is the
same property subject to a limited tax thereafter was long

WRIGHT v. GEORGIA R. R. & BANKING CO. 423
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ago decided by the $upreme Court of Georgia in a case which
involved the interpretation of this Very_ contract. City
Council of Augusta v. Georgia Railroad & Banking Company,
26. Georgia, -651., 661 et seq. The question in that case was
as to the legality of municipal taxes assessed by the city of
Augusta upon that part of the capital of the company employed in its banking- business and' upon real estate situated
in that city. The taxes were held illegal. Interpreting this
section,. that court said:
"-It means, first, that the stock of the company, was to be
subject to a tax, but not to any tax exceeding qne-half of
one per cent on the net proceeds of its investments." Second, "That the stock of the 'company, as stock, as. a unit, is
alone what is to be subject to the tax; not parts of the stock
as the part used in banking, nur the particulars inmwhich the
stock consists; as, 'the land, cars, rails, etc." Third, "That
this tax to which the stock is to be subject, is to be a tax to
be laid by the State."
We may as well turn to one side just here to deal first with
the question of tie d.uration of this commuted tax which is
to follow the period of tax exemption, because we construe
the words "aft(, that," which; immediately follow the exemp-tion clause, as synonyimous with "thereafter," and as fixing
theretofore exempt
the time when that property which was
should be subject to the system of taxation'provided by the
succeeding clause.
It has been rather faintly urged that the duration of this
commuted tax or. partial exeml)tion was limited to a term
of thirty-six years after the cormpletion of the railroad, and
that this period hms,.longi sli'nce expired. This suggested limitation seems to have no otber basis than that the words "and
after that" do not mnean "thereafter," as we have assumed,
nor refer to the limitation immnediately preceding, but to a
more remote limitation found in the second section of the
charter, and again in the earlier part of the fifteenth section.
But the thirty-six year limitation is one obviously applicable

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

only to the grant of an exclusive right, within a defined territory, to construct and operate railroads. This was intended to
protect this pioneer railroad from being paralleled within that
time. The recurrence to this exclusive right in the first part
of the fifteenth section is only for the purpose of placing a
condition thereon which, as matter of fact, never happened,
and which, therefore, never became vested, and to provide
that the termination of that right should not otherwise affect
the corporate existence, estate, powers or privileges of the
company. This reference to the exclusive. right conferred
first by the second section is followed by the provision above
set out, providing that "the stock of the said company and
its branches shall be exempt from taxation for and during
seven years from and after the completion of said railroads,'
or any of them, and after that shall be subject to a tax not
exceeding one-half of one per cent per annum on the net proceeds of their investment." "After that" obviously refers to
the last limitation, the termination of the exemption period,
and it would be an indefensible construction to construe the
words as referring it to the thirty-six year limitation of the exclusive right regulated by the preceding part of the same section.
Coming now to the question as to what is the meaning and
scope of the partial exemption found in this clause, we are
confronted, first, with the contention that only the shares in
the hands of shareholders are within either the first or second
clause of this contract, and that the entire property of the
company is subject to the taxing power of the State, unaffected by any 'contract for any stipulated form of limited
taxation. This claim .is, of course, bottomed 'oh the contention that "stock of tfie said company and its branches" refers
to and means only the shares in the capital stock held by the
shareholders, and that the benefit of the stipulation was intended for the shareholders in their character as such.
The word "stock" is not uniformly used to designate the
capital of a corporation although its primary meaning is
capital, in whatever form it may be invested. Indeed, it is

WRIGHT v. GEORGIA R. R. & BANKING CO. 425
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not at all unusual to find the word used synonymously with
"shares," and meaning the certificates issued to subscribers
to the company's stock. It i.; therefore important to look at
the connection in which the word is used when an exemption
or substituted method of taxation is ihvolved, to see whether
the legislative intent was to exempt the capital of the comIany, in whatever form invested, or the shares of stock in
the 'hands of the shareholders. Powers v. Detroit & Grand
Haven Railway, 201 U. S. 543, 559. There is an obvious distinction between the capital stock of an incorporated ompany and the " .shares"of the company. The one is the
capital upon which the business is to be undertaken, and is
represented by the property of every kind, acquired by the
company. Shares are the mere certificates which represent
a subscriber's contribution to,the capital stock, and measure
his interest in the company.:' The charter, plainly enough,
recognized this. Thus, in the third section, it is provided that
"the stock of the company . . . shall consist of fifteen
thousand shares of one hundred dollars per share, and the
said coimpan y to be formed on that capital." By a later section
the times and places for taking subscriptions are defined, "so
that on summing up the whole it may appear whether the
stock is filled up, or falls short of the aforesaid capiial." In the
seventh section we find the interest of the subscribers: to the
,stock" rceognized Iand described as shares, while the capital
of the company in which he holds such shares is described as
"the stock of the said company." Thus each subscriber is
given "a number of votes equal to the number of shares he
may hold in the stock: of the comtiany."' That "'stock," as
used, means -(.a)ital " in whatever form invested, appropriate
to the purpose of the company, is also plainly evidenced by
the provision that, after the total exemption period this stock
shall be subjected to a specific tax "on the net proceeds of
their investments." It has been suggested that by "their
inVestments" was meant the investments, of the shareholders
in the company's stock. This interpretation is based upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

the use of the plural "their"; but in many places in this same
charter the company is referred to in the plural. As this
same act provides for the organization of. one. or more companies to construct branch lines, and extends to them the same
tax exemption, it is grammatically correct to read "their"
as referring to this plurality of companies. That "stock"
in the first clause means capital, and "their investments,"
the property .intowhich the company's capital has gone, seems
in any view. you take of it the most rational interpretation
of the matter. That the only mode of taxation stipulated
for after the period of total exemption i a tax .upon the net
income of the company's property is seemingly the plain and
obvious m.eaning of this contract. That this is the way in
which it has been read and interpreted by everybody who
has had to do with' the matter of taxation in an official way
since 1845, when the railroad seems to have been finished,
affords strong evidence that this construction accords with
the intent of the charter. Aside from at least sixty years of
legislative and execiktive acquiescence in reading this partial
exemption as applicable to.the capital stock of the company,
there has been a series of casest decided by the Supreme Court
of Georgia which involved the meaning of this clause. In
each case the court has held, either, that the whole of the
capital was exempt in whatever form invested, or so much
of the investment as corresponded in value to the authorizedcapital stock. City of Augusta v. Georgia Railroad& Banking
Company, 26 'Georgia, 651, 662 et. seq.; The State' of Georgia
v. Georgia Railroad & Banking Company, 54 Georgia, 423;
Goldsmith, Comptroller &c., v. Georgia Railroad & lganking
Company, 62 Georgia, 485.
In the case of State of Georgia v. The Georgia Railroad &
Banking Company, cited above, the court held that the act
of 1874, which sought to assess an ad valorem tax against the
property of the railroad' company was void, as in viola0n
-Qf the obligation of a contract by which the State was limited
to a tax which should not exceed one per cent "on its earn-

WRIGHT v. GEORGIA R. R. & BANKING CO.
216 U. S.

427

Opinion of the Court.

ings." Goldsmith, Comptroller, v. The Georgia Railroad &
Banking,Company is relied upon as overruling the earlier case.
But this is a mistake for more than one reason. That cask
wia dismissed for want of jurisdiction over the subject of the
legality or illegality, of the tax resisted. Hence, all that was
sail balout the taxability of the appellee's property under
Shis (lh.,rt(r exemptioji fl. obiter. But so far as the question
of the a)plic"aility of this partial exemption to the capital
of ffie company as invested in its railroad is concerned, the
oilioli distinctly accepts the former case as a settlement
of the question. Referring to the former case, Mr. Justi(c Ilecklev said:
-It seems to have been the purpose of this court to hold
in 54 Georgia, 423, that excel)t as to stock issued under the
amendment of 186S authorizing the (layton branch, the limit
put by the charter of the Georgia Railroad and Banking
Company upon the taxing power, extends to all the capital
stock of the-corporation as a railroad company, and is irrel)ealabhl'. These questions were, fairly involved in that. case,
and the adjudication of them there announced ought to be
ac('el)te(l as final."
That Mr. Justice Bleckley afterward concluded that the
former case had not considered or decided whether any excess
of value of property over the amount of the authorized and
exempt capital would be subject to an ad valorem tax is true;
but that does not detract from the recognition of the former
as afi authoritatiVe opinion upon the point that the exemption was of the capital of the company.
SWe conie now to the question as to whether so much of the
value of the company's railroad and appurtenances as exceeds
in value the amount of the authorized capital stock, under
the charter and amendments prior to 1863, is subject to
taxation as other property.of like character, under the law of
the State. This value "it is admitte( exceeds by four' millions
of dollars the nominal value of the ('al)ital stock of said company.'" wlich excess, it is further conceded, has been -the

428

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

result of natural increase in the value of said property and
by renewals, alterations and betterments of the same, 'from
tine to time, by said company."
That this is the true and proper method of taxation admissible under the charter exemption has.been urged upon
several grounds. First, it is sai(l that this construction was
given this very charter in Goldsmith, Comptroller, v. Georgia
Railroad & Banking Company, heretofore cited, and the ap)ellants plead the judgment in that suit as res judicata.
Confessedly, if this is a good plea, it must operate not only
fo'r the purpose for which it has been interposed, but will be
entirely fatal to the claim that the exemption now in question
has expired or that it extended only to the shares in the hands
of shareholders.
The opinion in that case does so construe the exemption,
but, as we have already shown, the case went off wholly upon
the question as to whether the trial court had any jurisdiction
of the question, and the opinion, after construing the clause
here involved, passed on to this matter as to whether the
uestion could be made under the statutory remedy resorted
by the company, and concluded by holding that whether
die railroad company had been taxed illegally or not, the court "
below ought to have dismissed the proceeding for want of
jurisdiction, and that the remedy, if any, was by bill in equity.
Accordingly the judgment which the Supreme Court entered
was. one which reversed the julgment below and directed
that the proceeding be dismissed for want of jurisdiction..
This judgment in no way involved the construction of this
exemption contract, nor the liailility of the Georgia Railroad
Coplany to taxation upon its property, or otherwise, :ld
does not therefore have any efficacy as an estoj) 1)el. There
was therefore no error in the ruling of the Circuit Cou't that
this plea was bad. Upon the other hand, when the plea of
estoppel just disposed of came in, the complainants aniealded
their bill and set up the judgment in the earlier case of the
n/:i'g Coi.pany,
State of Georgia v. The Georgia ,aiold & B(C-

W{IGHT v. (GE )%(;IA
216 U. S.

R. R. & BANKING CO, 429

Opinion of tile Court.

54 Georgia, 423, as an adjudication concluding not only the
claim that the exemption was only of the shares in the hands
of 'shareholders, but as an adverse decision of this claim that
only so much of the "investments" of tile comnpany were
exempt from a general ad ralorem tax as equalled in Value the
authorized capital stock of the company under the charter
and ameldmemits prior to 1863.
l3ut in Georgia Railroad C- Banking Company v. WVryght,
124 Georgia, 596, the Supreme Court of Georgia seems to have
definitely decided that a judgment in a suit to collect a tax
assessed for one year is not a bar to a suit for taxes subsequently assessed for another year, although tle qIuestiol (hecided in the first case is the same question upon which the second suit must be also decided.
This court, as is Well settled, accords to a judgment of a
State only that effect given to it by the court of the State in
which it was rendered. Union -Bank v. Memnphis, 189 U. S.
71; On'ington v. First Not. Bank, 198 U. S. 100.
We shall therefore disregard- this plea, and determine the
matter u)on its merits, giving to the decision of the Georgia
court collsi(deration only as ai authority.
Conming then to tle question on its merits: Under the original charter and certaii amendments there exists to-day an
authorized capital stock of $4,156'000. This leaves out of
account a small increase under a later act, aggregating 440
shares, which capital is'subject to taxation and is not now
in dispute. The railroad property, including its railway,
depots, equipments and appurtenances proper, have a present
-value of sonic four millions of -dollars in excess of the authorized capital.' Now the contention is that to the extent.
of this excess the property of the company is assessable and,
taxable as other property. There is not much to be gained by
the reference to Farrington v. Tennessee, 95 U. 8. 679, 687,
and Bank of Commerce v. Tennessee, 161 U. S. 134,.137, where
something is said in an argumentative way about the taxability of a bank's surplus whose capital was exempt. rrhat

430

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

might well be if the bank should choose to enlarge its actual
capital in the business by using profits as capital instead of
distributing. them as profits to tbe shareholders, where the
exemption' was of a specific amount of capital The facts.in
this case are so different from the case presented of a bank's
surplus as to make the illustration of little value, evenif -it
was settled that in all cases a bank's surplus would be taxable
although its capital was exempt. We have here nothing
which corresponds yery closely to a bank's surplus. An investment made nearly seventy-five years since of $4,156,000
has now a value of $4,000,000 in excess of that cost. The..
property is the same property. The conceded fact is that
through -renewals, alterations and betterments made from
time to time and the natural increase in the value of the
road, this appreciation has come about. There has been no
suggestion that there has been .any hiding away of capital
added, by either new stock, or by the use of bonds or other
forms of credit, nor that the improvements made from time
to time, called "renewals, alterations and betterments" have,
been other. than the necessities of an enlarging ,business and
the improved maintenance naturally demanded. There is
no suggestion that there has 'been any bad faith in covering
up taxable as~ets under cpver of assets immune. Mobile &
Ohio RailroadCo. v. Tennessee, 153 U.:S. 486, 506.
After all, the precise question is, whether the legislative
purpose, as expressed, was that the railroad incorporated
should pay no tax except one based upon net profits of operation, or was it the intention that a specific amount of capital
only should be so relieved? Undoubtedly, the State did not
intend that any other capital than that authorized and invested directly in this specific railroad should be -immune.
That is plain by the express limitation of the charter. "But
is there any contingency under which this particular railroad
is to be subject to any other taxation than one measured by
the amount of its net profits? The contract. though one for
a partial exemption from taxation, may nevertheless be read

WRI'GIT v. GEORGIA R. R. & BANKING CO. 431
216U. S.

Oinion of the Court.

in the light of the purpose sought to be accomplished and the
public policy entertained at tile time. -That is true of this,
as well 'as other contracts, namely, that the meaning may be
discovered by regard to attendant circumstances. That the
intent was to exempt a capital aggregating $4,156,000, is
for the purpose of the present question the necessary foundation of the claim now being looked at. That was at the beginning mere subscribers' promises to pay; next, money in
the treasury of the company. While money, the charter says,
it may, until needed, be invested "in the public stock of the
United States or of the State of'Georgia." But this capital
was intended to be the only means by which this line 'of
railroad was to be constructed and equipped. Thus, the
original capital was fixed at one and a half million, dollars,
with power to enlarge same, "so a. to make their capital,
adequate to the work." This power of increase does-not
seem to have been regarded as clear enough, and when an
authorized extension of the work demanded more capital the
charter was amended so as to increaso it to four 'Million
dollars, "to meet excess of cost of road over present capital."
To insure the completion of the authorized road within the
limit of the fixed capital it was provided that the- engagements of the company, shduld not exceed the company's
capital, and that the officers and directbrs who should contract beyond that capital should be jointly and severally
liable to the contractors and to the corporation. Finally, no
power Was given to issue bonds, the usual incident to any
modern railway construction. From the plain purpose that.
this authorized capital should be adequate to the construction
and equipment of a particular railroad, it is plainly inferable
that that railroad' should be subject, after a time of complete immunity, only to a tax upon the profit of its operation.
That railroad is the product of the investment of the authorized capital, and is, as such, subject only to a tax bsed upon
its "net proceeds." This plan of tax upon net earnings is
quite inconsistent With any other form of -axation, and is

OCTO ER TlM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

absolutely indeClendent of any question as to whether the
property thus taxed only upton its profits should have a less
or greater value than the capital invested. A tax upon earn-

ings is a tax which at last covers and includes, unless double
taxation is intended, all property necessarily held and used
to make that inc'ome, including the enjoyment of its frauchiscs. It is not, to bc prestmed, in the light of the public
policy'of the time, that the State intended that this pioneer
railroad should be subjected to any form of taxation of property which l)roduced the taxable income. State of Georgia v.
Atlantic anid Gulf le. R.Co., 60 Georgia, 268.
We are, therefore, of opinion that this property is not
subject to any other method of taxation than that of the
special system stipulated for by the contract, an(l that the
act of the Georgia lcgislature, in so far as it lrovi(l(s for an
ad valorem tax upon any part of this invested capital of the
Georgia Railroad and Banking Company, does impair the
obligation of the contract.
But it is said that the tax, so far as imposed upon the
franchise of this compauy, is not in derogation of the cluter,
and that the decree below should be modifiedI in this particu.lar.
If we are right inconstruing the tax as one upon net income
as a substitute for a property tax, the franchise may no more
bd taxed than any other property appropriate to the (),pcration
of the road. Vhen the State gave up the right to levy and
collect a property tax and to take in substitution a tax upon
the annual net profit, it gave up the right to tax thle franchise
of the company as certainly as it gave up the right to tax its
railroad. The Georgia act taxing franchises treats the fran-'
chise as property and re(uires that "they shall be returned
,and valued in the same way as returns are made by railroads
of their physical property.

.

.

."

And that "all fran-

chises of value shall be returned for taxation and taxed as
other property." That a law which imposes a tax upon the
franchise of a railroad comppany whose property is exempt
from taxation is a law inderogation of the exemption contract

WRIGHT v. CEOPRGIA R. R. & BANKING CO. 433
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

is well settled. Wilmington Railroad v. Reid, 13 Wall. 264;
Gulf & Ship Island Railroad v. Hewes, 183 U. S. 67, 77.
Theluded in the total mileage owned and operated by the
appellee railroad company is a line eighteen miles long,
known as the Washington Branch. The company has all
along claimed that this branch road was within the partial
exemption clause of its original charter, granted in 1833. So
far as appears from this transcript, this. claim has not before
been challenged, though no distinct issue seems ever to have
been made in respect to its exclusion by reason of the legislation under which that branch was acquired. Neither does
the answer of the comptroller in this case claim or set out any
difference between the tax exemption applicable to the other
parts of the appellee' railroad and this Washington branch,
and the decree of the court below expressly finds that the
original charter exemption includes this Washington branch.
But the general denial that any part of the property of the
railroad company was exempt from ad valorein taxation may
well be regarded as covering the parts which make up the
whole. To the decree holding the Washington branch exempt
the comptroller has moreover assigned error, based upon the
legislation under which that bianch was constructed. The
right of exemption elaimed for this branch was, however,
distinctly put in issue by the counties of Wilkes and Talliaferro, which, for this purpose, were allowed to intervene,
having a direct interest due to the fact that that branch,
Ipassing through those counties, would be subject
to county
taxation if not within the tax exemptioni clause. These
counties have appealed from the decree below and assigned
error also.
The first legislative enactiment Li regard to the construction
of the Washington br:mclh road seenms to have been in the act
of 1833; but nothling was ever done under that. The same
may be said in reference to another act passed in 1836. In
December, 1847, an act was passed in these words:
"The power heretofore granted to the Georgia Raiiioad
VOL. ccx\'i---2(8

434

OCTOBER TERI,

1909.

Opinion of the Court.

-

216 U. S.

and Banking Co. to construct a branch of their road to
Washington, in the county of Wilkes, be, and the same is,
hereby revived and authorized to be exercised by said company, provided that the amount of the increased stock of said
6ompany ($200,000) shall not be exempt from taxation as is
secured to the present stock by the latter clause of the 15th
section of the charter of said company, but shall be subject
to such tax as the legislature may hereafter impose."
But this was a section in an act amending the charter, and
was never accepted. See26 Georgia, 651, 654.- At the same
legislative session, on February 5, '1850, another act was
passid in these words:
"That [naming incorpdrators] be and they are hereby authorized to build, construct and keep a plank or railroad from
the town of Washington, in Wilkes county, to some point on
the Georgia Railroad and Bankin g Company's railroad, and
for that purpose shall be authorized to create and receive
by subscription a capital stock not exceeding $200,000, and
shall be authorized to exercise all the powers and privileges
conferred by the act of the general assembly passed in the
year 1833, to incorporate the Georgia Railroad 'Company,
and shall be under all the liabilities and restrictions therein
contained."
/
So far as we can discover, the only legislative authority
for the construction or acquirement of a branch railroad to
Washington, accepted or acted under by it, is found in the
act of January 21, 1852, entitled "An act to authorize. the
consolidation of the. stocks of the Georgia Railroad and Banking Company and of the Washington Railroad or Plank Road
(VQmpany, incorporated, February the fifth, eighteen hundred
and fifty, andfor Other purposes." The first section of that
act provides 7
"Thaj the Georgia Railroad and Banking, Company and
the Washington Rail or Plank Road Company be authorized
and empowered to consolidate their stocks,. the said Georgia
Railroad and Banking Company 'issuing ,stocks in their said

WRIGHT v. GEORGIA R. R. & BANKING CO. 435
216 U. S. ?

Opinion of the Court.

company to the stockholders of the Washington Railroad
or Plank Road Company,' on terms of equality with the general stockholders in amount equal to the amount held by
them respectively in the stock of the Washington Railroad
or Plank Road Company, and that the two companies aforesaid, after the consolidation of their stocks, shall be known
as one corporate body, under the name and style of tb
Georgia Railibad 'and Banking Company, and that said
corporate body shall, be authorized to exercise all the power.
and pirivileges conferred by existing laws upon the Georgia
Railroad and Banking Company, and be under all the liabilities and restrictions imposed on the same.."
That this consolidation neither extinguished the Georgia
Railroad and Banking Company, nor deprived it of any of
its powers, privileges or immunities, is plain. No such result
has been claimed. Nor is it claimed that it thereby lost
any tax exemption which it then had. The act authorizing
that under which the
the consolidation is- substantially like
Central Railroad and Banking Company was consolidated
with the Macon Railroad, considered in Central Railroad
Company v. Statd of Georgia, 92 U. S. 665, where it was held
that the tax exemption which the Central Railroad had' enjoyed, continued after consolidation in respcct of the property
of that company, but that as .the Macon company, consolidated with it,. had no exemption, its property continued
subject to taxation. That the Washington Railroad or Plank
Road Comoany would go out of existence when this merger
-was accomplished is plain; it was,: indeed, absorbed by the
Georgia company.t The purpose was to vest in the ratter all
of the lights, powers and privileges of the merged company
without diminishing or enlarging them. See what is said by
Chief Justice Fuller in commenting upon a similar merger
in W. & W. R. Co. v. Alsbrook, 146 U. S.'279, 300.
Did the Washington Railroad before copsolidatiof, possess
any contract tax exemption?
The ciaim that it did is based upon the prbvision in the

OCTOBER TElRM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court

216 U. S.

act under which it was incorporated, providing that it should
"be authorized to exercise all the l:)Overs. and privilegev
conferred by. the act of the general assembly passed in the
year IS33 to incorlporate the Georgia Railroad Company, and
shall be under all the liabilities and restrictions therein contained."
The question; then, is, whether, under the power "to
exercise all the powers and privileges [italics ours] conferred
by the act incorporating the Georgia Railroad Company, the
immunity from any other tax than, one based upon a, given
per cent of annual net profits wts granted to that company."
The affirmative of this proposiion finds some suppot't in the
cases of Humphrey v. Pegues, 16 Wall. 214; Chesapeake &
0. R. Co. v. Virginia, 94 U. S. 718; South Western R. Co. v.
Georgia, 92 U. S. 665, i([ Tennwssee v. Whitworth, 117 U. S.
'139. In later cases this doctrine of a 4egislative transfer of a
tax'immutity under the term franchise, powers, estates or
privileges was questioned. Thus, in Chesapeake & 0. R. Co.
v. Miller, 114 U. S. 176, a tax immunity was held not to pass
under a mortgage foreclosure sale under the provision of a
statute which authorized the purchaser to become a corporation amid "suceced to all such franchises, rights and privileges"
pertaining to the mortgagor company. In Picard v; East
Tennessee &c. It. Co., 130 U. S. (37, 642, 'it was held that
such an immunity would not lJass to a p)urchasing company

under a decree enforcing a statutory lien, where the sale, as
cofirmed, wfs of the "prope'ty

and franchises"

of the

mort-,ipgo company. In that case it was said:
"It is trim'e there are sone cases where the term 'privileges'
has beeni held to include immunity from taxation, but that
has' generally been where other provisions of the act' have
given tui:}i mieniiim.ig to it. The later, and, we think, the better
opinion, is that unless other provisions remove all doubt of
the intention of the legislature to include the immunity in the
term 'privileges' it will not be so construed. It can have its
full force by confining it to other grants to the corporation."

WRIGHT v. GEORGIA R. R. & BANKING CO.
216 U. S.

437

Opinion of the Court,

In Wilmington & Weldon Railroad Co. v. Alsbrook, 146
U. 8. 279, 297; K. & W. R. Co. V. Missouri, 152 U. S. 301,
and Phoenix Fire & Marine Insurance Co. v. Tennessee, 161
U. S. 174, the earlier cases were also much shaken so far as
they tended to establish that a tax exemption would be trans-.
ferred by legislative enactment conferring upon one road the
powers or franchises or privileges of another, in the absence
of other language or pregnant ciicumstances, showing a plain
intent to confer such exemption.
But whatever 'doubt upon this subject may have existed
as to the effect of the transfer to one company of the powers
and privileges of another in conferring a tax exemption
possessed by the latter is set at rest by Rochester R. R. Co. v.
Rochester, 205 U. S. 236, 252. Mr. Justice Moody, after reviewing all of the cases referred to above and others, sums
the matter up by saying:
"We think it is now the rule, notwithstanding earlier
decisions and dicta to the contrary, 'that a statute authorizing or directing the grant or transfer of the 'privileges' of a
corporation, which enjoys immunity from taxation or regulation, should not be interpreted as including that immunity."
There is an absence of anything in the history of this branch
railroad which points to a purpose to grant any exemption
from taxation. Thus, in the act of December 20, 1849, reviving the authority of the Georgia Railroad and Banking
Company to construct such a branch, originally authorized
by earlier acts, it was expressly provided that the stock to be
issued for the purpose "should not be exempt from taxation,
as is secured to the present stock by the later clause of the
15th -section of the charter of said company," etc. This
provision was probably the very reason why the Georgia
Railroad and Banking Company did not accept or act under
that statute. At the same session of the legislature an 'independent company was created to construct and operate the
same branch road. Presumably with the knowledge of the
fact that the Georgia Railroad and lBanking Company (oulh

'438

I OCTOBEIR TERM, 1909.
Opinion. of the Court.

216 U. S.

-not itself qonstruct this road with immunity from taxation,
this act authorizing'this new corporation, to build the same
brandh, declared that this company..should be "authorized
.to exercise [italics ours] all powOrs and privleges 'confered by the act originally creating the Georgia Railroad
and Banking Cqnipany. It is one thing to have authority to
'Yexercise" all the "powers and i)rivileges" of' anotlier cor)any, and anotherthiing to enjoy an exemption from taxa7
tion. The "ex~rcise" of the "powers nd privileges" of the
company referred to, was rca~onably essential to the construction an(l, operation of the independent railroad. Its
immunity .from taxation was not. Sec Wilmington & Weldon
t..R. v. Alsbrook, 146 U. S. 279, 295, and Nationdl Bank v.
United States, 101 U. S. 1. The power of taxation is never
to be regarded as surrendered or bargained away if the)'e is
room for rational doubt as to the purpose. .
We conclude,- therefor , that theWashington Railroad or
Plank Road Company had 1no exemption from taxation at
the time this consolidation occui'rcd. That, the consolidating
act did not intend to cofer any immunity from taxation
which did not tlen exist is plain. The object was to vest
in the Georgia company the property and franchises and
rights and privileges of the Washington company. When
the Geoigia company succeeded to its property and franchises, it did so. subject to whatever right theState had in
the matter of taxatiop: The case in this aspect is controlled
by Central Ridlroad Co. v. Georgia, 92,U. S. 665.
The derec of the court below is modified so as to exclude
the eighteen miles constituting the Washiigton Branch Railroad, but in all otJie: respects it is affirmed. The costs of this
app eal will be'diviIed between Wright, Comptroller General,
And the Georgia Railroad and Banking C6mpany.
Affirmed.

