OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

216 U. S.

CITIZENS' CENTRAL NATIONAL BANK OF NEW YORK
v. APPLETON, RECEIVER OF THE COOPER EXCHANGE BANK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME C)URT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

No.-113. . Argued January 27, 28, 1910.-Decided February 21, 1910.

Although a contract made by a corporation may be illegal as ultra
vires, an implied contract may exist compelling it to account for
the benefits actually received.
A national bank which guarantees a loan made by another bank in
pursuance of an agreement that it be paid the amount due it by
the borrower out of the proceeds of the loan, cannot avoid its liability for the amount actually received by it pursuant to the arrangement on the ground simply of ultra vires; it may be liable for money
had and received.
190 N. Y. 417, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. John A. Garver, with whom Mr. James M. Beck was on
the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The tule, that corporations have no powers except those expressly conferred by law or incidental to the exercise of their
express powers, is peculiarly applicable to banks. Logan
County Bank v. Townsend, 139 U. S. 67; California Bank v.
,Kennedy, 167 U. S. 362, 366.
Unusual safeguards are thrown about these institutions, not
nerely for the protection of those dealing with them but also
for the benefit of the general public and even of the governments under which they exist. In the statutes under which
they are Organized, their powers are not merely defined in
general terms, as is the case with most corporate statutes, but
,they are enumerated with explicit detail. McCulloch v. Maryland,.4 Wheat. 3106; Osborn v.. Bank of United States, 9 Wheat.
.738; Farmers' Nat. Bank v. Dearing, 91 U. S. 29; Davis v.
Elmira Savings Bank, 161 U. S. 275, 283; McClellan v. Chip-

CITIZENS' NATIONAL BANK v. APPLETON.
216 U.S.

197

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

man, 164 U. S. 347; Owensboro Nat. Bank v. Owensboro, 173
U. S. 664; Easton v. Iowa, 188 U. S. 220, 238.
It was an important object on the part of Congress to create
and maintain confidence in the national bank system. McCormick v. Market Bank, 165 U. S. 538, 552.
Powers are conferred upon national banks by Rev. Stat.,
§ 5136, and this statute is the sole measure of those powers.
Bank of United States v. Dandridge, 12 Wheat. 64, 68.
The exercise of powers not expressly granted to national
banks is prohibited. First Nat. Bank v. Nat. Exchange Bank,
92 U. S 122, 128; CaliforniaBank v. Kennedy, 167 U. S.362,
367; ConcordBank v. Hawkins, 174 U. S.364.
Unless expressly empowered by statute, corporations have
no power to act as accommodation indorsers or guarantors,
even for a consideration. Commercial Nat. Bank v. Pirie, 82
Fed. Rep. 799; Bowen v. Needles &c. Bank, 94 Fed. Rep. 925.
Provision 'is usually made in the general laws of the States
for the organization of corporations authorized to execute
surety bonds and contracts of guaranty and indemnity; and,
in New York, only corporations thus organized have the power
to guarantee. Nat. Park Bank v. German-American Ware-.
hous(ng Co., 116 N. Y. 281, 292; Fox v. Rural Home Co., 90
Hun, 365; aff'd 157 N. Y. 684.
The Court of Appeals conceded that the contract of guaranty was ultra vires and that no action could be maintained
uion it. That is undoubtedly the law in this court, which
holds that an ultra vires contract is no contract at all and that
no liability can be predicated upon it. Thomas v. RailroadCo.,
101 U. S.71; Pennsylvania R. Co. v. St. Louis &c. R. Co., 118
U. S. 290; Oregon R. Co. v. OregonianR. Co., 130 U. S. 1; Pittsburgh &c. R. Co. v. Keokuk Bridge Co., 131 U. S.371; Central
TransportationCo. v. Pullman Car Co., 139 U. S.24; St. Louis
&c. R. Co. v. Terre Haute &c. R. Co., 145 U. S. 393; Union
Pacific R. Co. v. Chicago &c. R. Co., 163 U. S.564; McCormick
v. Market Bank, 165 U. S. 538; Railway Company v. Trust
Company, 174 U. S.553.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

216 U. S.

It makes no difference that the defendant may have received benefit from the contract. CaliforniaBank v. Kennedy,
167 U. S. 362; Concord Nat. Bank v. Hawkins, 174 U. S. 364;
Merchants' Nat. Bank v. Wehrmann, 202 U. S. 295.
The decision below was based upon principles of state law
which are contrary to those recognized in this court.
The National Bank Act provides a complete system for the
establishment and government of national banks. Cook
County Bank v. United States, 107 U. S,. 445, 448.
-In so far, therefore, as the Court of Appeals sought to
ignore the decisions of this court, by applying a doctrine
contrary to that which is recognized here, it disregarded the
statute.
The necessity for uniform construction has been recognized
by this court. Tullock v. Mulvane, 184 U. S. 497, 505; Yates
v. Jones Nat. Bank, 206 U. S. 158.
The National Bank Act is the supreme law of the land to
national banks, and a state statute which attempts to authorize the exercise of a power or impose a liability not permitted by that act, is a nullity. Farmers' Nat. Bank v. Dearing, 91 US. 29;, Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S.
540, 558; Dobbins v. Los Angeles, 195 U. S. 223, 237. People's
Bank v. National Bank, 101 U. S. 181, and Cochran v. United
States, 157 U. S. 286, relied on below, are not applicable; and
see Bank of Genesee v. PatchinBank, 13 N. Y. 309, 314; Commercial Nat. Bank v. Pirie,82 Fed. Rep. 799; Bowen v. Needles
Nat. Bank, 94 Fed. Rep. 925.
The method actually employed cannot be disregarded, nor
can a void and unlawful transaction be rendered valid merely
because the result might have been attained in a lawful
manner.
Mr. John W. Hutchinson, Jr.,. arid Mr. Julius M. Mayer,
with whom Mr. H. Snowden Marshall was on the brief, for defendant in error:
The defendant in error is entitled to recover the $10,000

CITIZENS' NATIONAL BANK v. APPLETON.
216 U. S.

199

Argument for Defendant in Error.

which it gave up on the faith of the guaranty and which was
received by the guarantor.
An action for money had and -received is exactly appropriate. 27 Cyc. 858; Gaines v. Miller, 111 U. S. 395, 397.
\Vhile it is conceded that under the decisions of this court u
party cannot recov(r upon an ultra vires contract it has-never
been held in this court or in any other jurisdiction that a party
can retain what it has received under such a contract, and refuse to perforin the contract on the ground that it is ultra vires.
Logan Coanty Bank v. Townsend, 139 U. S. 67; Aldrich v.
Chemicel National Bank, 176 U. S. 618.
As said in the opinion of the Court of Appeals, whatever the
difference of view there may be as to the (ffet of ultra vires on
corporate contracts, in no jurisdiction can a party retain what
it has received under such a contract and refuse to perform
the contract, and see also Merchants' Bank v. Slate Bank, 10
Wall. G04, 644; United States v. State Bank, 96 U. S. 30, 36;
Louisiana v. Wood, 102 U. S. 294; Pullman's Car Company v.
TransportationCo., 171 U. S. 138, 151.
The transaction was not such a contract of guaranty as is
forbidden to be made by national banks, but was a written
)romisc made to a third party for the purpose of collecting
an existing debt and is therefore an enforceable obligation.
The lack of power, however, to guarantee the payment of
obligations, which is prohibited because not expressly conferred, refers to the business of guaranteeing debts, or to a
transaction the very purpose of which is to guarantee for
profit as a commercial risk the payment of another's obligation.
It is, however, the duty of a national bank to collect the
debts owing to it, and, in that connection, it has frequently
become necessary for a national bank to engage in transactions
or to accept payment or security in a manner and of a character not permissible as an original or initial transaction. American National Bank v. National Wall Paper Co., 77 Fed. Rep.
85; Morris v. Third National Bank of Springfield, 142 Fed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

Rep. 25; National Bank v. Case, 99 U. S. 628; First National
Bank v. National Exchange Bank, 92 U. S. 122; Cockrill v.
Abeles, 86 Fed. Rep. 505; Central R. R. & Banking Co. of
Georgia v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Company, 114 Fed. Rep.
263. People'sBank v. National Bank, 101 U. S. 181, and Cochran v. United States, 157 U. S. 286, are decisive upon the
question at bar.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was commenced in the Supreme Court of New
York by the Receiver of the Cooper Exchange Bank, a New
York corporation, against the Citizens' Central National
Bank of New York, a national bank corporation formed by
the consolidation (Rev. Stat., §§5220 and 5221) of the Central
National Bank of the city of New York with the National
Citizens' Bank of the same city. The action was dismissed on
domurrer to the complaint, and that judgment was affirmed
in the Appellate Division. 116 App, Div. 404. But on appeal
to the highest court of New York the judgment was reversed,
190 N. Y. 417, and the cause was remitted to the Supreme
Court of that State for judgment in accordance with the
opinion of the former court.
The complaint alleges'That the defendant, the Citizens' National Bank of New
York, by the consolidation referred to, acquired all the assets
and became subject to the, liabilities of the Central National
Bank of that city;
That on and prior to January 4th, 1904, one Michael'Samuels
was indebted to the Central National Bank in the sum of
$10,000;
That "at the instance and request of Samuels, trading
under the name of Mikael Samuels & Co., and the Central
National Bank of the city of New York," the-Cooper Exchange
Bank loaned and advanced to the former the sum of $12,000,
Samuels executing his written obligation, dated January 4th,

CITIZENS' NATIONAL BANK v. APPLETON.
216 U. S.

201

Opinion of the Court.

1904, to return or repay the same on or before four months
after date with interest, and at the same time the Central
National Bank of the city of New York, under seal, executed
a written guaranty for the payment of the debt, as follows
"For and in consideration of one dollar and other good and
valuable considerations, the Central National Bank of the
city of New York hereby guarantees to the Cooper Exchange
Bank the payment at maturity of i loan of twelve thousand
dollars, made this day to Mikael Samuels & Co. by the Cooper
Exchang(. Bank;"
That previous to the obtaining of .said loan of $12,000,
Samuels "agreed with the said Central National Bank to pay
to it the said sum of $10,000 of the said $12,000 so obtained,
and the said loan was obtained by the said Mikael Samuels
and was guaranteed by the said Central National Bank in
order that the said Central National Bank might obtain the said
suM of $10,000, which it did receive and which was owed to
it by the said Samuels;"
That previous to the maturity of the loan, namely, on
January 30th, 1904, only a few weeks after the loan was made,
Samuels was adjudged a bankrupt; and,
That no part of said loan had ever been paid, except $1,000,
which was paid April 7th, 1906.
The Court of Appeals of New York-Cullen, C. J., delivering the opinion-held and the counsel for the Cooper Exchange
Bank cnceded in that court, that no recovery could be had
against the guaranteeing bank in excess of the amount actually
received by it out of th, $12,000 loaned, as above stated.
190 N. Y. 417. The case being remitted to the inferior state
court, ju(lgment was therefore rendered against the defendant
only for $10,000, with interest from January 4th, 1904, with
costs in all courts.
The plaintiff in error insists that the guaranty'given by the
Central National Bank to the Cooper Exchange Bank was
beyond its .power, was in violation of the National Banking
Act, and, therefore, could not be made the.foundation of an

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216

.

S.

action against the guarantor bank. But this action need not
be regarded as one on the written contract of guaranty, but
as based on an implied contract between the Cooper Exchange
Bank and the Central National Bank, whereby the latter,
under the circumstances disclosed by the record, came under
a duty to account to the former for the $10,000 of the $12,000
actually paid to Samuels at its request and on its guaranty.
The law would be very impotent to do justice if it could not,
under those circumstances and without violating established
legal principles, compel the Central National Bank to recognize and discharge that duty. Samuels owed the Central
National Bank $10,000, and-with knowledge perhaps of his
financial condition-ho was put forward by that bank to
obtain $12,000 from the Cooper Exchange Bank so that it
could get $10,000 out of that sum, for its own use. The cir*cumstances show that the latter bank would not have loaned
the money to Samuels except at the request and on the guaranty of the Central National Bank. All this, it may be observed, occurred under a previous agreement between the
Central National Bank and Samuels, that that bank was to
have $10,000 of the $12,000 in discharge of its claim upon him.
In short, the Central National Bank, by means of the device
mentioned, got $10,000 of the money of the Cooper Exchange
Bank for its own use, and having used it for its own benefit,
it now seeks to avoid liability therefor, upon the ground'that
it was. not allowed by the law of its creation to execute the
guaranty in question. We know of no adjudged case that
stands in the way of relief being granted as asked by the
plaintiff. But there are many thatwill authorize such relief.
In Logan County National Bank v. Townsend, 139 U. S. 67,
74, it appears that a national bank purchased, at a stipulated
price, certain municipal bonds, which it agreed to 'return to
the seller upon demand or replace them at the same or a less
price. Demand was subsequently made on the bank to return
or replace the bonds according to the agreement. But it
failed to.do either, and when sued for the value of the bonds it

CITIZENS' NATIONAL BANK v. APPLIETON.
216 U. S.

203

Opinion of the Court.

pleaded, as a defense, the absence, under the law of its creation,
of any authority or power ol its part to make the above contract. This court said: "If it be assumed, in accordance with
the bank's contention, that it was without power to purchase
these bonds, to be replaced tQ the plaintiff, on demand, the
question would still remain, whether, notwithstanding the
act of Congress defining and limiting its powers, it was exempt
from liability to the plaintiff for the value of the bonds, if it
refuse(d, upon deirand, to replace or surrender them at the
same or a less price. And from the time of such demand and
its refusal to return the bonds to the vendor or owner, it
becomes liable for their value upon grounds apart from the
contract under which it obtained them. It could not rightfully hold them under or by virtue of the contract, and, at
the same time, refuse to comply with the terms of purchase.
If the bank's want of power, under the statute, to make such
a contract of purchase may be pleaded in bar of all claims
against it based upon the contract-and we are assuming, for
the iurposes of this case, that it may be-it is bound, upon
(eiman(l, accompanied by atender back of the price it paid,
to surrender the bonds to its vend r. The bank, in this ease,
insi'ting that it obtained the bonds of the plaintiff in violation
of the act of Congress, is bound, upon being made whole, to return themn to him. No exemption or immunity from this principle
right andto(buy
do'',is given by the national banking act.
'The ofobligation
' oii
d justice,' this court said in Marsh v.
F.uton CountY, 10 Wall. 676, 684, 'rests upon all persons, natural ani artificial, and if a county obtains the money or prop(rtv of )t hers without authoritv, flh,' law, independently of
amy staI
II,
will compel 1(1titution or compensation.'
The 'as(', off .1ldrich, v. (ChericalNational Bank, 176 U. S.
618, is (eql:tllyN in point. A vice-president of a national bank.
without aulhrity from i't, borow cd nianev fromi another
national hanlk, and )l:'cd the :lmouni: ill still another hank
to the ('rlit of the hank which h, assutmm(l to relpr(,s'nt in
the transaction.
The national bank in whose
ii:,i., the,

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

money was deposited drew the money out by check and applied it in discharge 'of its own valid obligations; and when it
was sought to .hold it liable, the defense, in part, was that the
original borrowing was not only unauthorized by it, but was
in violation of the National Banking Act. Upon an extended
review of the authorities this court said:-"As the money of the
Chemical Bank was obtained under a loan negotiated by the
vice-president of the Fidelity Bank who assumed to represent
it in the transaction, and, as the Fidelity Bank used the money
so obtained in its banking business and for its own benefit,
the latter bank having enjoyed the fruits of the transaction,
cannot avoid accountability to the New York bank, even if it
were true, as contended, that the Fidelity Bank could not
consistently with the law of its creation have itself borrowed
the money.

.

.

.

If the latter bank in this way use(1 the

money obtained from the Chemical Bank, it is under an implied obligation to pay it back or account for it to the New
York bank. It cannot escape liability on the ground merely
that it was not permitted by its charter to obtain money from
another bank. Suppose the Fidelity Bank, by its check upon
the Chemical Bank, had drawn the whole $300,000 at one
time, and now had the money in its possession unused? It
would not be allowed to hold the money even if it were without
power under its charter to have borrowed it from the Chemical
Bank for use in its business. Or suppose a national bank, in
violation of the act of Congress, takes as security for a loan
made by it a deed of trust of real 'estate, and subsequently
causes th property to be sold and the proceeds applied in
payment of its claim against the borrower, a surplus being
left in its hands, which it uses in its business or in discharge
of its obligations. If sued by the borrower for the amount
of such surplus, could the bank successfully resist payment
upon the ground that the statute forbade it to make a loan
of money on real estate security? Common honesty requires
this question to be answered in the negative. But it could
not be so answered if it be true that the Fidelity Bank could

CITIZENS' NATIONAL BANK v. APPLETON.
216 U. S.

205

Opinion of the Court.

use in its business and for its benefit money obtained by one
of its officers from another bank under the pretence of a loan,
and be discharged from liability therefor upon the ground
that it could not itself have directly borrowed from the other
bank the money so obtained and used. There is nothing in
the acts of Congress authorizing or permitting a national
bank to appropriate and use the money or property of others
for its benefit without liability for so doing."
These views are supported by many other adjudged cases.
In Central TransportationCo. v. Pullman's Car Co., 139 U. S.
24, 60, the court, speaking by Mr. Justice Gray, said': "A
contract ultra vires being unlawful and void, not because
it is in itself immoral, but because the corporation, by the
law of its creation, is incapable of making it, the courts,
while refusing to maintain any action upon the unlawful contract, have always striven to do justice between the parties,
so far as could be done consistently with adherence to law,
by permitting property or money, parted with on the faith of
the unlawful contract, to be recovered back, or compensation
to be made for it. In such case, however, the action is not
maintained upon the unlawful contract, nor according to its
terms, but on an implied contract of the defendant to return,
or, failing to do that, to make compensation for, property or
money which it has no right to retain. To maintain such an
action is not to affirm, but to disaffirm the unlawful contract."
So, in Pullman's Car Co. v. TransportationCo., 171 U. S. 138,
151, the court, speaking by Mr. Justice Peckham, said: "The
right to a recov'ery, of the property transferred under an ilh,gal contract is founded upon the implied promise to return
or to make compensation for it." Othercases are cited in the
margin.'
1 Merchants'

Bank v. State Bank, 10 Wall. 604, 644; United States

v. State Bank, 96 IT.S. 30,.36; Louisiana v. Wood, 102 U. S. 294;

Parkersdnvy; v. BroWn, 196 U. S. 487, 503; Read v. Plattsmouth, 107
U. S. 568; Dittey v.Dominion National Bank of Bristol, 43 U. S. App.
613,615; Atlantic Cotton Mills v. Indian OrchardMills, 147 Massachu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

216 U. S.

We need not go farther. It is entirely clear that the judgment against the defendait bank-which came into the possession of the property, and was subject to the liabilities of the
Central National Bank-was consistent with sound legal
principles and was intrinsically right, even if the guaranty in
question was beyond the .power of the guaranteeing bank,
under the national banking statutes. Whatever may be said
as to the validity of the written guaranty, now alleged to be
illegal, the judgment can be supported as based wholly on
the implied contract, which made it the duty of the Central
National Bank, under the facts disclosed, to account to the
Cooper Exchange Bank for the money obtained from the
latter in execution of the agreement made by the former
with the borrower.
The judgment must be affirmed.
It is .so ordered.

GREAT

NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. STATE
OF MINNESOTA.

ERROR TO THE SUPRENTE COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.

No. 359.

Argued November 5, 8, 1909.-Decided February 21, 1910.

A state legislature, unless restrained by the constitution of the State,
may contract to limit the State's power of taxation ; but,' as taxation
is essential to the existence and operation of government, an exemption therefrom will not be presumed from doubtful language, but
must be expressed beyond reasonable doubt.
When a State becomes'the owner by l)urchase of the entire property

and franchises of a corporation created by itself, it can only convey
the same pursuant to the provisions of the then existing constitution
and it cannot reinvest either a purchaser or the original owner with
any exemption from taxation prohibited by the existing constitution.
.-:tts, 268; Perkins v. Boothby, 7L Maine, 94, 97; Bank of Lakin v.
National Bank, 57 Kansas, 183.

