0(OC

-ItJI"
THIRAI, 19109.

Argument for the State.

216 U. S.

LUDw
\I(, SECRETARY OF STATE OF ARKANSAS, v.
WE STERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY.
AI'I'EAL I-;IIOM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN I)ISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 45.

Argued April 13, 14, 1909.-Decided February 21, 1910.

On the authority of Western Union Telegraph Company v. Kansas,
ante, p. 1, and.PultmanCarCompany v. Kansas, ante, p. 55, held that:
A state statute which requires a foreign corporation engaged in interstate commerce to pay, as a license tax or fee for doing intrastate
business, a given amount on its entire capital stock whether emlpkyed within the State or elsewhere, directly burdens the interstate
business of such corporation and its property outside the jurisdiction of the taxing State and is unconstitutional and void; and so
held as to the Wingo law of Arkansas of May 13, 1907.
Publication by proclamation by a state officer in his official capacity
that a foreign 5 orporation engaged in interstate and local business
is not authorized, but is forbidden from continuing, to do local
business would produce irreparable injury to such corporation; and,
in order to prevent such contemplated or threatened injury a court
of equity may enjoin the state officers from issuing such l)roclamation, if the state statute on which the contemplated action is based
is unconstitutional.
An action brought by a corporation against a state officer to obtain
such an injuncti(on is not an action against the State within the
meaning of the Eleventh Amendment. Western Union Telegraph
Company v. Andrews, post, ). 165.

THE facts which involve the constitutionality of certain
provisions (if the Wingo Act of Arkansas applicable to foreign corporations are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Hal L. Norwood, Attorney General qf the State of Arkansas, with whom Mr. Joseph M. Hill, Mr. William F. Kirby
and Mr. Otis T. Winog were on the brief for appellafht in this
case and for appellee in No. 8, argued sinmltaneonsly herewith.'
A State has )lenary pow('r to prescribe such terins as pleases
it upon which foreign corporations may enter and do business..
For decision in No. 8, see p. 165, post.

LUDWIG v. WEST. UN. TEL. CO.
216 U. S.

Argument for the State.

It has power to refuse admission to a foreign corporation not
engaged in interstate commerce or governmental service, and
to prescribe terms upon which, a foreign corporation engaged
in interstate commerce and the service of the Government may
do intrastate business. It has the power to prevent a foreign
corporation from doing business at all within its borders, unless such prohibition is so conditioned as to violate the Federal or its own Constitution. H(... ',ond Packing Co. v.
Arkansas, 212 U. S. 322; American Smelting Co. v. Colorado,
204 U. S. 103; Security Life Ins. Co. v. Prewett, 202 U. S. 246;
Hooper v. California, 155 U. S. 648; Allgeyer v. Louisiana,
165 U. S. 578; Osborne v. Florida, 164 U. S. 650; Pullman Co.
v. Adains, 189 U. S. 420; Armour Packing Co. v. Lacy, 200
U. S. 226; Kehrer v. Stewart, 197 U. S. 60; State v. Lancashire
Ins. Co., 66 Arkansas, 466; Woodson v. State, 69 Arkansas,
528; Western Union Tel. Co. v. State, 82 Arkansas, 302; WatersPierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 177 U. S. 28; Orient Ins. Co. v. Daggs,
.172 U. S. 557; John Hancock M. Life Ins. Co. v. Warner, 181
U. S. 73.
It may prescribe as such condition a forfeiture of its right to
do business upon removal of a cause to the Federal court or the
bringing of suit in the Federal court without the consent of the
opposite party. Doyle v. Continental Ins. Co., 94 UI. S. 535;
and see Security M. Life Ins. Co. v. Prewett, 202 U. S. 246,
holding a statute valid that prescribed such forfeiture in the
exact terms of the Wingo Act.
The court was without jurisdiction, this being a suit against
the State.
The act fixes a license fee or tax to be paid by foreign corlporations to the State for its privilege or franchise of allowing
such corporations to do business within the State upon the
.same terms and conditions as domestic corporations.
The penalty suits by the State's prosecuting attorneys in its
courts, for the collection of its said license tax for its benefit, is
its method of enforcing the -payment of same. The State is
the real party in interest against which the relief in these cases

OCTOBER, TERM, 1909.
Argument for the State.

216 U. S.

is asked and the judgments would operate. These suits are
brought to test the constitutionality of the statute,-not to
prevent a trespass of individuals against its l)roperty. In re
-Ayers, 123 U. S. 443, 487; Fitts v. Magee, 172 U. 8. 516, 528,
and cases reviewed in the opinion below. See lVeern Union
Tel. Co. v. Andrews, 154 Fed. Rep. 95. Ex parte Young, 209
U. S. 124, is not applicable.
The Wingo Act is not in violation of the Telegraph Comliany's rights under act of Congress of 18(i, nor an interference
with interstate commerce.
The teriS " seekilng to (o IlSiness ill
this State" lld "doing
business inl
this State " mean and includce oily iltasltet( b)0siness, for sutch only h'as the State power to regulate. Il'ex4ern
(In. Tel. (o. v. State, 82 Arkansas, :309, :321, alld mises .it,,'l.
And see also Osborne v. Florida, 164 U. S. (i50; Pullman Co. v.
Adams, 189 U. S. 420.
Like expressions in statutes of North Carolina and Georgia
have been similarly construed and the cases affirmed by this
court. 'Armour Packing Co. v. Lacy, 200 U. S. 226; Kehrer v.
Stewart, 197 U. S. 60. Other cases in point are: State v. Telegraph Co., 27 Montana, 394; State v. Wagner, 77 Minnesot,
483; Western Union Tel. Co. v. State, 90 Pac. Rep. (Kans.) 307;
Commonwealth v. Gagne, 153 Massachusetts, 205; cited in 188
Massachusetts, 241; Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114
U. S. 196; Norfolk & Western Ry. Co. v. Pennsylvania,136 U. S.
114.
The expression, "now or hereafter doing business in this
State," and others of like import, as "do any business iri
this
State," etc., having received a judicial interpretation, are
)resume(d to be used in that sense in this act, there being nothing inthe act to indicate a contrary intent. Beasley v. Equitale Securities Co., 72 Arkansas, 610.
When the legishiture adopts the statute of another State
the interl)retation of such statute by the courts of that State
is aldopt.ed with it, and how much the more should our own
',ut's .,,,,st'lmctionI of an act re(enactel be conclusive in its

LUDWIG v. WEST. UN. TEL. CO.
216 U. S.

Argument for Telegraph Co.

interpretation. Nebraska Nat. Bank v. Walsh, 68 Arkansas,
438; McNutt v. McNutt, 78 Arkansas, 352.
Kirby's Digest, §7946, is part of the act (§ 10) of March 31,
1885, under the terms of which the company claims to have
contracted with the State for the right to do intrastate business, and the Supreme Court of the State says the act does nol
even apply to a company not authorized to do intrastate business. Such is the construction of this statute by the Supreme
Court of the State of Arkansas, and it is binding here. Hammond Packing Co. v. Arkansas, 212 U. S. 322; Armour Packing Co. v. Lacy, 200 U. S. 226; Kehrer v. Stewart, 197 U. S.
60; Pullman Co. v. Adams, 189 U. S. 426; Osborne v. Florida,
164 U. S. 650.
The act is not in violation of the Telegraph Company's contract with the State, nor does it deprive it of its property
without due process of l.w.
This law was passed by the State to enable her citizens to
enforce without great inconvenience their just demands
against foreign corporations doing business in this State under
the comity existing between the States. See Conn. Ml. Life
Ins. Co. v. Spratley, 172 U. S. 621; Am. Smelting Co. v. Colorado, 204 U. S. 103, distinguished.
Mr. Rush Taggart and Mr. Henry D. Estabrook, with whomit
Mr. George B. Rose was on the brief, for appellee in this case
and ai)pellant in No. 8, argued simultaneously herewith.'
By discriminating between foreign and domestic corporations, the statute complained of denies to the Telegraph Company the equal protection of the law.
While a State may, ,if it sees fit to do so, excfude from its
territory any foreign' corporation not engaged in interstate
commerce or in the service of the United States, if the Stat,
does admit the corporation within its borders, it is then a
person entitled to the protection afforded by the Fourteenth
Amendment. Blake v. McClung, 172 U. S. 239.
For decision in No. 8, see p. 165, 'po. t.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Telegraph Co.

216 U. S.

When foreign corporations have entered a State with its
permission, and made permanent investments therein, they
cannot be discriminated against in favor of domestic corporations. To do so would be to deny them the equal protection
of the law. American Smelting Co. v. Colorado, 204 U. S. 103'.
The act forbids a foreign corporation to bring suit in the
United States courts, and forfeits its right to do business in the
State in the event of its instituting such an action, while it contains no restriction upon the right of domestic corporations
to sue in those courts. This is a valuable right conferred by
Congress, in pursuance of the authority of the Constitution of
the United States, of which the State cannot deprive a citizen
or a corporation. Insurance Co. v. Moore, 20 Wall. 425; Barron v. B'urnside, 121 U. S. 180; So. Pac. Ry. Co. v. Denton, 14;
U. S. 200; Martin v. R. R. Co., 151 U. S. 673; Barr,,,S., .
Co. v. Kane, 170 U. S. 100.
The equal protection of the law is a pledge of the protection
of equal laws. Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 369.
The act violates the contract between the State and the
Telegraph Company and deprives the latter of its property
without due process of law.
A contract existed under the Arkansas act of March 31,
1885, Acts, p. 176, with the terms whereof the Telegraph Cor)any has eornl)ic(l. See United States v. Central Pacific Railroad Co., 118 U. S. 235; St. Louis v. Western Union Tel. Co.,
148 U. S. 103; New Orleans v. Southern Telephone and Telegraph Co., 40 La. Ann. 41; Monongahela Co. v. United States,
148 U. S. 329; Montgomery County v. Bridge Co., 110 Pa. St.
54, 68; Walla Walla v. Walla Walla Water Co., 172 U. S. 1;
Pearsal v. Great Northern Railway Co., 161 U. S. 661; City
Railway Co. v. Citizens' Railroad Co., 166 U. S. 587; Powers v.
Detroit & Grand Haven Railway Co., 201 U. S. 544.
The fact that no money was paid to the State does-not make
the contract void for want of consideration. -Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 637;.Erie RailroadCo. v. Pennsylvania, 153 IT.S. 628.

LUDWIG v. WEST. UN. TEL. CO.
216 U. S.

.Opinion of the Court..

The act infringes the rights conferred on the Telegraph
Company by the act of. Congress of July 24th, 1866, as an
agency of the United States Government and as an instrumentality of commerce.
The Telegraph Company under that act, is an instrumentality of the Government of the United States, which a State
cannot exclude. from its borders and such Telegraph Company .is likewise an .instrumentality of interstate commerce,
the exclusive power to regulate which is vested in the Congress
of the United States. Pensacola Telegraph Company v. W. U.
Tel. Co,., 96 U.S. 1; Telegraph Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S.460; W.
U. Tel. Co. v. Massachusetts, 125 U. S. 530; Leloup v. Port of
Mobile, 127 .U. S.640; W. U. Tel. Co. v. Penna. R.R.Co., 195
'U. S.540; W. U. Tel. Co. v. St. Louis, 148 U. S. 92.
Even if the act be thus interpreted by the state authorities,
as applying only'to domestic business it cannot be sustained
under Osborne v. Florida, 164 U. S.650; Pullman Company v.
Adams, 189 U. S.420; Allen v. Pullman Palace Car Co., 191
U. S.171; New York v. Penna. R.'R. Co., 192 U. S.21, as in
those cases, the acts sustained by this court either expressly
separated the local business of thecompanies affected from the
interstate business, and left it optional with the company
affected, to continue its domestic business, or to discontinue
it, or the act had been so interpreted by the courts of the State,
and this court simply accepted such construction of the act
as made by the state courts. , To the same effect: The TradeMark Cases, 100 U. S.82; James v. Bowman, 190 U. S.127.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

The Western Upion Telegraph Company, a corporation of
New York, doing business, both interstate and intrastate, in
Arkansas, as it had done for many years, brought this suit
against 0. C. Ludwig, Secretary of State of Arkansas, for the
purpose of obtaining a decree that the statute of that State of
May 13th, 1907, entitied "An Act to permit foreign. corpora-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

tions to do business in Arkansas and fixing fees to be paid by
all corporations," Acts of Ark., 1907, p. 744, was unconstitutional, null and void, and enjoining the defendant, in his
official capacity, from attemptinlr to revoke, or proclaiming
through official newspaper publications that he had revoked,
the authority of the plaintiff to do business in Arkansas, or
that it had no right to continue doing business in that State.
The plaintiff, in its bill, asked such other and further relief as
(he ease might require
t
and as might seem just.
A temp)rary injunction was issued, and thereafter the defendant demurred and answered at the same time. The demurrer was on these grounds: That the court was without
jlris(lictioI to hear and determine the case, "the same being
in effect a suit against the State" by a citizen of another State
to prevent the enforcement of one of its criminal or penal
statutes; that the facts stated in the bill are not sufficient to
constitute a cause of action nor to warrant the relief asked;
and that the bill was wholly without equity. The answer denied all the material allegations of the bill.
Subsequently, the plaintiff, by leave of the court, filed an
amendment of its bill. To that amendment no answer was
made, but all parties being present, the cause was heard, without objection, on the demurrer to the bill. The denmurrer was
overruled, and the defendant having elected not to plead further, the injumittion previously granted was made perpetual.
ironi that order the present appeal Was prosecuted.
The above statute, known as the Wingo Act, whose constitutionality is questioned by the plaintiff, is as follows (the
italics being ours):
"§ 1. Every company or corporation incorporated under
the laws of any other State, Territory or county, including
foreign railroad and foreign fire and life insurance companies,
now or hereafter doing business in this State, shall file in the
office of the Secretary of State in this State a copy of its charter
or articles of incorporation or association, or a copy of its certificate of incorporation, duly authenticated and certified by the

LUDWIG v. WEST. UN. TEL. CO.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

proper authority, together with a statement of its assets and
liabilities and the amount of its capital employed in this State,
and shall also designate its general office or place of business
in this State, and shall name an agent upon whom process may
be served. Provided, before authority is granted to any foreign
corporation to do business in this State, it must file with the
Secretary of State a resolution adopted by its board of directors, consenting that service of process upon any agent of such
company in this State, or upon the Secretary of State of this
State, in any action brought or pending in this State, shall be a
valid service upon said company; and if process is served upon
the Secretary of State it shall be his duty to at once send it by
mail, addressed to the company at its principal office; and if
any company shall, without the consent of the other party to
any suit or proceeding brought by or against it in any court of
this State, remove said suit or proceeding to any Federal court,
or shall institute any suit or proceeding against any citizen of
this State in any Federal court, it shall be the duty of the
Secretary of State to forthwith revoke all authority to such
company and its agents to do business in this State, and to
publish such revocation in some newspaper of general circulation published in this State; and if Such corporation shall
thereqlfrr continue to do business in this State, it shall be subject to the penalty of this actfor each day it shall continue to do
business in this State after such revocation.
" § 2. Any foreign corporation which shallfail to comply with
the prrovisions of'this act, and shall (1o any business in this State,
shall be subject to a fine of not less than $1,000, to be recovered before any court of competent jurisdiction, and all such
fines so recovered shall be paid into the general revenue fund
of the county in which the cause of action shall accrue, and it
is hereby made the duty of the prosecuting attorneys to institute said suits in the name of the State, for the use and benefit
pf the county in which the suit is brought, and such prosecuting attorney shall receive as his compensation one-fourth of
the aniount recovered, and as an additional penalty, any

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

foreign corporation which shall fail or refuse to file its articles
of incorporation or certificate as aforesaid, cannot make any
contractin this State which can be enforced by it either in law or in
equity, and the complying with the provisions of this act after
suit is instituted shall in no way validate said contract.
"§ 3. That all corporations hereafter incorporated in this
State and all foreign corporations seeking to do business in this
State, shall pay into the treasury of this State for the filing of
said articles a fee of $25 where the capital stock is $50,000 or under; $75 where the capital stock, is over $50,000 and not more
than $100,000; and $25 additional for each $100,000 of capital
stock.
"Any foreign mutual corporation having no capital stock
shall be required to pay to the Secretary of State for filing its
articles of incorporation the sum of $500. Provided, however,
nothing in this section shall apply to fraternal orders that
write insurance.
"§ 4. That Act 185, approved April 17, 1907, and entitled
'An Act to provide a manner in which foreign corporations
may become domestic corporations and for other purposes,'
and all laws and parts of laws in conflict herewith, be and the
same are, hereby repealed; and that this act take effect and be
in force from and after its passage." Acts of Ark. 1907, p. 744.
As the case 'Was decided on demurrer to the bill, the material facts properly alleged are to be taken as true on this
hearing. The case made by the plaintiff in its bill is substantially as will be now outlined.
The Telegraph Company was organized in 1851, and immediately thereafter began the work of constructing and
operating telegraph lines. Its system extended throughout
the United States and Canada, and connected with lines in
Mexico and Central and South America by means of submarine
cables, and with telegraph systems of foreign countries.
Among the lines so constructed and forming a component
part of the company's system and connecting with its main
office in New York, are lines within Arkansas, most of which

LUDWIG z,. WEST. UN. TEL. CO.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

were constructed since 1867, in which year the company accepted the terms and conditions of the act of Congress of
July 24th, 1866, entitled "An act to aid in the construction of
telegraph lines and to secure to the Government the use of the
same for postal, military and other purposes." 14 Stat. 221,
c. 230;.Rev. Stat., §§ 5203 to 5269 inclusive.
It should be stated in this connection that the bill alleges
that the company's lines within Arkansas are upon the publF'
domain and upon the military and post roads of the United
States, are part of the postal routes and postal establishment"
of the United States, and, as such the complainant has under
the Constitution and laws of the United States the power and
is under obligation to .transmit all messages for the Government and for the public generally as much and as fully with
respect to messages between points within the said State as
interstate messages. The company's lines within Arkansas
were constructed with the consent and permission of the State,
certainly without objection on its part, and in accordance with
its laws. The amount which the company, up to the bringing
of this suit, had invested in lines within Arkansas was $15300
and continuously since their construction the Telegraph Company has used them "for the transmission of telegraph messages for the Government of the United States, and the several
departments thereof, and for the public, as an instrumentality
of the Postal Department and of commerce wholly within the
State of Arkansas, and also for interstate commerce and coinmerce between points in said State and foreign countries, and
thus said telegraph lines have been continuously employed in
domestic, interstate and foreign commerce since their construction."
The above act of 1907 requires that every foreign corporation doing or seeking to do business in the State should file in
the office of the Secretary of State a copy of its charter or articles of incorporation, duly authenticated, together with a
statement of its assets and liabilities and the amount of its
capital employed in the State, and designate its g_neral office

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

or place of busin'ess thereini, and the name of an agent upon
whom process in any action brought or pending in the State
may be served. The company tendere(d to the Secretary of
State a duly authenticated copy of a resolution of the Board
of Directors, assenting to the d(esignation of an agent upon
whom process against the company might be served; also, the
above required statement; "and offered to the Secretary of
State [who claimed to proceed under the above act of 1907] all
reasonable fees for the filing and recording of the said papers."
B3ut the Secretary of State refused and still refuses to file the
samne unless the Telegraph Comnpany pays to him a fee of $75
upon the first $100,000 of its capital stock, and $25 upon each
additional $10(),000 of stock. The calpital stock, of the Telegraph Coinpany being $100,000,000, the slm which the Secretary required to be paid as a co)ndition of the company's right
to have its articles of incorporation filed, and thereafter to continue doing business within Arkansas without incurring the
penalties prescribed by the statute, was $25,050.
We have seen that the, act, of 1907 l)rovided that if any
foreign corporation, without the consent of the other party
to any suit brought by or againist it in any state court should
remove such suit to the Federal court, or institute a suit
against a citizen of Arkansas in the 'Federal court, it becale
the duty of the Se(cretary of State to forthwith revoke all aIthority in the conlsuly alid its agents to do Ibsiness in Arkansas and publish such revocation ill s111e ICwsp aper of general
circulation in the State; and if after si(!h revo(atio the conpany continued to do any business in Arkansas it became subject to a fine of not less than $1,000for each (liy it, so iontinued,
to be recovered by suits instituted by plroseeuting attorneys in
the name of the State for the use mid benefit of the county in
which the suit was brought ;so, if the company failed to coiply with any of the provisions of'the act it l)e(,ane subject toa
fine of $1,000; further, if a foreign corporation failed or reftised to file its articles of in corpm)oatioit, as requireoid, it couihl
not "make any (onit aet " il Aik iisas "wii .hea be ent re'ond

LUDWI(G v. 'WEST. UN. TEL. CO.
216 U. 8-

Opinion of the Court.

by it either in law or in equity." Before the bringing of this
suit the company had, in fact, instituted a suit in the United
States Circuit Court to enjoin the prosecuting attorneys in the
several districts of the State from proceeding against it to recover the penalties set forth in the act in question-the suit of
Western Union Telegraph v. Andrews &c., this day decided,
see p. 165, post.
It isalleged, and the demurrer admits, that the Secretary of
State has threatene(1 to promulgate, and, unless restrained by
order of e.iurt, will l)ron'ulgate, a I)roclaniation that the authority of the company to do business in Arkansas has been
revoked and p ublish the fact of such revocation, in the newspape'rs, thereby making it app ear that th(, co)mlpany had,beCin61e subject to the prescribed penalties to be recovr'd in
suits brought by the State's prosecuting attorneys, and incapacitate(1, if the statute be enforced against it, to make any
contract in Arkansas, whatever its subject-mattir, which is
euforcible in law or e(uity.
The special grounds upon which the statute in question is allegC( to be unconstitutional an(t voidl may be thus summarized:
1.It imposes upon the Secretary of State the duty-in the
event the c'ompany institute(d a suit in the Federal court
against a citizen of Arkansas, or removed to the Federal court,
without t he cons-ent of the other party, any suit brought by or
against it in any court of the State-to forthwith revoke its
authorily to (1o business within Arkansas, and subjects the
conpany to the penalty of S1,000 for each day's continuance
of such business in the State after such revocation.
2. If the company fails to file a copy of its articles of incorporation vith the Secretary of State, and does not pay, in advanc(' of such filing, the re(uir(l fee or tax, based on its capital
stock, which .r,sents its property and business everywhere,
inside and outside of the State, it. is made liable to a fine of
$1,000 for .onti fii!ig, after such failure, to do business in
Ar'kansas.
3. Aks th" line, (,stablishd by the company in Arkansas are

158

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

h6 U. S.

practically of no value unless used as the same have been located and constructed, any provision that would prohibit their
being used for the purposes and as the same were constructed
and designed to be used would deny it the equal protection of
the laws and deprive it of its property without due process of
law.
4. The State lays an unequal burden on the plaintiff as
compared with, corporations of Arkansas, in that domestic
corporations, organized and existing at the time of the passage of the statute, are not required to pay into the treasury
of the State any sum whatever upon their capital stock, but
are allowed to continue their business without the payment
of any sum; while corporations of other States, even those
having lines within the State, under the protection thereof,
are required to pay a large tax nieasured by their entire capital stock, wherever employed, for the privilege of continuing
in Arkansas their established and existing business, whether
the same be domestic or foreign commerce.
5. Upon the failure of the company to pay the required fee,
based on its capital stock employed both within and without
the State,, the company is forbidden, or is not allowed, to
make any contract within the State, which can be enforced
either in law or equity, whether the same relates to domestic,
interstate or foreign commerce; whereby, it is alleged, the
statute denies to the company the equal protection of the
laws, and seeks to er force an illegal exaction for the privilege
of using its property for purposes of domestic, interstate and
foreign commerce.
6. As the company originally-some thirty or forty years
ago-entered the State of Arkansas and constructed and has
operated its lines of telegraph, with the consent of the State,
and during that period has extended and operated its lines
within its limits, with its consent; as the State, from time to
time, through legislative enactments, has not only recognized
the company's right to transact business within its limits,
but regulated its business and affairs; and as, during the above

LUDWIG v. WEST. UN. TEL. CO.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

period, with the knowledge and acquiescence of the State,
and in reliance upon such license, consent and acquiescence
the company has expended large sums of money for the purpose of transmitting messages between the people of Arkansas, the State cannot withdraw its license and expel the
company from its limits, even with respect to local business,
without impairing the obligation of the company's contract
with the State.
Such is the case as made by the bill; and the relief asked is
a decree, declaring the statute unconstitutional and restraining any attempt to collect said fee of $25,050, and from imposing any of the penalties prescribed by it or by any provision therein (except the one requiring the designation of an
agent upon whom process may be served in any suit brought
against the Telegraph Company) and enjoining the defendant from attempting to revoke, or from proclaiming that he
has revoked, its authority to do business in Arkansas.
The first contention of the appellant that this action is one
against the State within the meaning of the Eleventh Amendment of the Cons'titution, declaring that the judicial power of
the United States shall not extend to any suit in law or equity
against a State by a citizen of another State. This contentidn
must be held untenable on the authority of Western Union
Telegraph Company v. Andrews &c., this day decided. See
p. 165, post.
But the vital question in the case is as to the constitutionality of the Arkansas statute. It is insisted by the defendant,
among other grounds, that the provision in the statute requiring a foreign corporation, seeking to do business in the
State, to pay a fee based upon the amount of its capital stock,
for filing with the Secretary of State its articles of incorporation or association is a device which, in effect and by its necessary operation, under the guise of regulating intrastate
business, imposes a tax on the interstate business of such
corporation, as well as a tax on its property used and permanently located outside of the State.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

.Interpreting it according to the ordinary acceptation of its
words, the statute does not discriminate between corporations
engaged in interstate commerce and corporations whose business is intrastate in its character, so to make it clear that the
State has not assumed to regulate or burden interstate business. Its words are unqualified and are made applicable to
"every company or corporation incorporated under the laws
of any other State, Territory or county, including foreign
railroad and foreign fire insurance and life insurance, now or
hereafterdoing business in this State." § 1. "Any foreign
corporation which shall fail to comply with the provisions of
this act and shall do any business in this State," etc. § 2.
"All corpQrations hereafter incorporated in this State and
all foreign corporations seeking to do business in this State,"
etc. According to the words of the statute, not unreasonably
construed, every corporation of another State, seeking to do
business in Arkansas, whether interstate or domestic, in order
that it may do busifiess of any kind in Arkansas, without
coming into conflict with the statute, must file a copy of its
authenticated charter with the Secretary of State; and it
seems that before that officer will file such copy the corporation must pay to him a given amount based upon its capital
stock, representing, necessarily, all its business, interstate
and intrastate, as well as all its property everywhere, beyond
a.s well as within the State. If the foreign corporation, without
first paying those amounts, does business of any kind in the
State it will incur not only the penalty of $1,000 for so doing
but will forfeit its right to make any contract in the State,,
enforcible in law or equity-\whatever its subject-mattereven if it be one relating to the business of the United States
or.to commerce among States. A statute of that kind would
be palpably in conflict with the Constitution, and, especially
an invasion of rights under that instrument of a corporation
engaged in interstate commerce and seeking to do business in
Arkansas.
But, it is said, that the statute in question should not be-so

LUDWIG v. WEST. UN. TEL. CO.
216 U. S.

161

Opinion of the Court.

broadly construed. The reasons given for this contention are
these: Before the statute here in question was passed there
was in force in Arkansas a statute (act of February 16th,
1899, as amended by the act of May 8th, 1899, Kirby's Dig.,
chap. 31) which was very similar, in many respects, to the act
of 1907, now under examination. The state Supreme Court
had occasion to determine the scope and effect of that act of
1899. Its decision was handed down March 18th, 1907, while
the Legislature of Arkansas was in session, and on the same
(lay another decision was rendered holding material parts of
that act to be repealed. Western Union Tel. Co. v. State, 82'
Arkansas, 302; Same v. State, 82 Arkansas, 309. These decisions, as counsel suggest, virtually left the State without
any statute prescribing fees to be paid by foreign corporations. Thereafter, on May 13th, 1907, the Legislature passed
the statute here in question, known as the Wingo Act, which,
with slight exceptions not necessary to be mentioned, was
substantially like the act of 1899. The Supreme Court of the
State, in Western Union Tel. Co. v. State, 82 Arkansas, 309,
314, construing the above act of 1899, had held that it was its
duty, unless otherwise compelled by the plain, ordinary
meaning of the words of a statute, to reject any construction
that would bring it into conflict with the Constitution of the
United States, Grenada County v. Brogden, 112 U. S. 261;
Cooley's Const. Lir., § 218; Atty. Gen. v. Electric Storage
Battery Co., 188 Massachusetts, 239; that it was too well
settled to admit of debate, that "it is beyond the power of the
State under the guise either of a license tax or police regulation to impose burdens upon interstate commerce or to deny
a foreign corporation the right to engage in such commerce
in the State"-citing Leloup v. Port of Mobile, 127 U. S. 640;
Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47; and Brennan v. Titusville,
153 U. S. 289. Its conclusion, in' that case, was that the act
of 1899 "must be construed to have been intended only to
impose terms upon the right of a foreign corporation to carry
on intrastate business and it was a valid statute." Now, the
voL. ccxvi-11-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

argument at the bar was that when the Wingo Act was passed,
the Legislature must be deemed to have had in mind the judicial construction given to the previous act of 1899, and
that it must be assumed that the same court would adhere to
its already expressed views; so, that if a case ever came before
it hereafter that involved the meaning and scope of the Wingo
Act, expressed substantially in the same words as the act of
1899, the court would construe the Wingo Act, as it construed
the act of 1899, as intended only to apply to intrastate business, and not as having been enacted for the purpose of burdening or imposing illegal terms for the transaction of interstate
busine:s by foreign corporations in Arkansas.
But the acceptance of this view would not reirove the
difficulty which confronts the State in the present case. According to well-settled rules of statutory construction, the
validity of a statute, whatever its language, must be determined by its effect or operation, as manifested by the natural
and reasonable meaning of the words employed. Henderson
v. Mayor, 92 U. S. 259, 268. If a statute, by its necessary
operation, really and substantially burdens the interstate
business of a foreign corporation seeking to do business in a
State, or imposes a tax on its property outside of such State,
then it is unconstitutional and void, although the state Legislature may not have intended to enact an invalid statute.
But even if we should assume that the state court would
construe the statute of 1907 as intended not to apply to interstate commerce but only to local or intrastate business, we
are, nevertheless, informed by its decision in Western Union
Tel. Co. v. State, 82 Arkansas, 302, 318, that, in the opinion of
the state court, the statute so construed is valid, and therefore
the Telegraph Company, in order that it may safely continue
local business in Arkansas, must first pay into the treasury
of the State certain amounts based on its entire capital stock
for simply filing its articles of incorporationwith the Secretary
of State; and if it does not pay the specified fees, ba. cd on its
entire capital stock, and yet continues to do intrastate busi-

LUDWIG v. WEST. UN. TEL. CO.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ness in Arkansas, it Will incur the prescribed penalty of one
thousand dollars for continuing to do business in the State,
and, in addition, lose its power or right to make any enforcible
contract in the State. These are, in effect, conditions upon
which the Telegraph Company lawf ully engaged in interstate
business, and entitled to be in Arkansas for such business, is
permitted to enter the State to do local business within its
limits. And these conditions have been prescribed, notwithstanding the company has been permitted for many years,
long before the act here in question was passed, to do local
business in the State with its permission and acquiescence,
and has invested there large sums of money in preparing to
serve the public efficiently in that kind of business. The
capital stock of the company represents, we repeat, all its
business, property and interests throughout the United States
and foreign countries, and the requirement that the company,
engaged in interstate commerce, may continue to do a local
business in Arkansas, and escape the heavy penalties prescribed, must pay a given amount (in this case $25,050),
based on all its capital stock, merely for filing its articles of
incorporation with the Secretary of State, is, in effect, a direct burden and tax on its interstate business, as well as on
its property outside of the State. The case cannot be distinguished in principle from Western Union Tel. Co. v. Kansas,
ante, p. 1, and Pullman Company v. Kansas, ante, p. 56, recently decided. The difference in the wording of the Kansas
and Arkansas statutes cannot take the present case out of
the ruling of the former cases. On the authority of the Kansas
cases, and for the reasons stated in the opinions therein, we
hold the statute in question to be unconstitutional and void,
as illegally burdening interstate commerce and imposing a
tax on property beyond the jurisdiction of the State.
Whether the statute of Arkansas is, in any particular, violative of the constitutional guaranty securing the equal protection of the laws, or of the guaranty prohibiting the deprivation of property, except by due process of law, or of any

*:

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

other constitutional guaranty, it is not necessary now to
consider. What has been said is sufficient for the determination of the present case, and we do not at this time go further
than is indicated in this opinion. Suffice it to say that the
defendant threatens to issue, in his official capacity, and publish, in the newspapers, a proclaniation to the effect--no
matter upon what specific grounds-that the Telegraph
Company is not authorized, but is forbidden, under penalty,
by the laws of Arkansas, from continuing to (1o local business
in that State. Such a proclamation, which the court, as well
as every one else, must know, would not only produce confusion in and irreparable damage to the company's business
in Arkansas, but wouild, in effect, declare that the company
is not only subject to a prescri)ed penalty of $1,000 for continuing to do local business in Arkansas, but is forbidden to
make any contract whatever in that State that is enforcible
in law or equity. In order to prevent the contemplated or
threatened injury to the company the court below properly
made a decree, perpetually enjoining the appellant, as Secretary of State, his agents and attorneys, from making proclamation that the Telegraph Company has no authority to con:
tinue doing business in Arkansas.
MR. JUSTICE Moopv. heard the argument of this case, participated in its decision, and concurs in this opinion.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE, Mr. JUSTICE MCKENNA and MR. JUSTICE HOLMES dissent.
The decree below must be affirmed.
It is so ordered.

