KNAPP v. MILWAUKEE TRUST CO.
Syllabus.

216 U. S.

it may be better, but the ground of the order avowedly was
that the perional preferences of many travelers is to go by
the Southern way. If they do, it is said, they can select from
a great variety of routes as far as Ogden, Utah, they can visit
cities not reached by the northern lines, they can search
over a wide area for homesteads, they can behold the natural
beauties that may be rivalled but not repeated on the other
roads. It appears to us that these grounds do not justify
the order. The most that can be said of them is that they
are reasons for desiring a second through route, but they
are not reasons warranting the declaration that 'no reasonable or satisfactory through route exists.' Obviously that is
not true, except by an artificial use of words. It cannot be
said that there is no such route, because the public would prefer two. The condition in the statute is not to be trifled away.
Except in case of a need such as the statute implies, the injustice pointed out by the Chairman in his dissent is not permitted by the law.
Decree affirmed.
KNAPP v. MILWAUKEE TRUST COMPANY, TRUSTEE
OF THE ESTATE OF STANI)ARD TELEPHONE &
ELECTRIC COMPANY, BANKRUPT.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 206.

Submitted January 10, 1910.-Decided March 7, 1910.

An intervention to establish his lien by a mortgagee in a petition
by thbe trustee to sell property of the bankrupt is a controversy
arising in a bankruptcy proceeding within the meaning of the Bankruptcy Act and the procedure under § 24a is the same as under
Court of Appeals Act of 1891. General Order No. XXXVI adopted
under authority of § 24b does not apply in such a case and no special
findings of fact are required.
Under the law of Wisconsin, as construed by the highest court of that
State, a mortgage of personal property is not valid as against creditors unless -the possession be given to, and retained by, the mortVOL. ccxvi-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Appellant.

216 U. S.

gagee, or the mortgage be filed; nor can a mortgagor appropriate proceeds of sale of the mortgaged property to his own use. Held that
thc mortgages in this case, even in the absence of intentional bad
faith, are fraudulent in law and void as to creditors.
Although the trustee stands in the shoes of the bankrupt, and takes
the property subject to equities impressed on it while in the bankrupt's- hands, he can attack a pledge which is so void as against
creditors that the property could have been levied on and sold under judicial powers against the bankrupt at the time of the adjudication.
Provisions in a mortgage for the retention and use of the mortgaged
property by the mortgagor which are prohibited by the law of the
State render the conveyance fraudulent in law, even in the absence
of intent, and as conclusively permit. the trustee to attack it as
though the mortgage were fraudulent in fact and intent existed.
The fact that a trustee might by suit against other parties collect
enough to pay, creditors is not a bar against setting aside a fraudulent conveyance on the entire property of the bankrupt in his hands.
162 Fed. Rep. 675.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. William Duff Haynie for appellant:
The mortgages were good against the bankrupt at the date
of adjudication.
The mortgagee had the, legal title from the date of execution. Ill. T. & S. Bank V. Stewart, 119 Wisconsin, 54. The
mortgagee had the fight of possession after default. Smith
v. Konst, 50 Wisconsin, 360; Frisbee v. Langworthy, 11 Wisconsin, 376. The mortgagee under- certain circumstances
may still retain his right to possession as though the possession was with the mortgagor. Sexton v. Williams, 15 Wisconsin, 320; Humphrey v. Tatman, 198 U. S. 91, 94. And so
it is under the present bankrupt act. Fisher v. Zollinger, 149
Fed. Rep. 54; Re Coffin, 152 Fed. Rep. 381.
At the date of adjudication the mortgages could not have
been attacked by the bankrupt, or any of its creditors, or by
their trustee in bankruptcy, for any non-filing. Bailey v.
Costello, 94 Wisconsin, 87; Ullman v. Funcan, 78 Wisconsin,
213; Eastman v. Parkinson, 133 Wisconsin, 375. A failure

KNAPP v. MILWAUKEE TRUST CO.
216 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

to comply with § 2316b cannot be urged by the trustee in
bankruptcy where there is no actual fraud.
At the date of adjudication, these creditors, under the law
of Wisconsin, were not entitled to have theseconveyances set
aside as fraudulent. North Hudson Bldg. & Loan Assn. v.
Childs, 86 Wisconsin, 292; Hyde v. Chapman, 33 Wisconsin,
391; Turner v. Pierce, 34 Wisconsin, 665; Mueller v. Bruss, 112
Wisconsin, 406, distinguished; Thompson v. Fairbanks, 196
U. S. 516, 525; Skilton v. Codington, 185 U. S. 80; Southard v.
Benner, 72 N. Y. 424, are New York cases under a statute;
there is no such statute in Wisconsin.
The chattel mortgage -statute of Wisconsin does not apply
to telephone companies; the same rules apply to them as to
railroad companies, and there does not seem to be any special
provision for the mortgage of telephone property outside of
§ 1780c to show that the statute has put the mortgages of all
the corporations mentioned in a class distinct from those contemplated by § 2310. Pierce v. St. P. & M. R. R. Co., 24
Wisconsin, 551, distinguished; Chynoweth v. Tenney, 10 Wisconsin, 341. Chattel mortgage statutes are inapplicable to
ordinary railroad mortgages. Hammock v. Loan & Trust Co.,
105 U. S. 77; Southern Cal. Motor-Road Co. v. Union Loan &
Trust Co.j 64 Fed. Rep. 450; Farmers' L. & T. Co. v. Detroit
R. R. Co., 71 Fed. Rep. 29. There is no decision in Wisconsin
on this point. Livingston v. Littell, 15 Wisconsin, 239; Rommerdahl v. Jackson, 102 Wisconsin, 144. This is also the rule
in the bankruptcy court. Union Trust Co. v. Bulkeley, 150
Fed. Rep. 510.
After-acquired property was brought under the mortgages. See § 1780c. Wisconsin Telephone Co. v. Oshkosh, 62
Wisconsin, 32, held that the word "telegraph" embraces
within its meaning the narrower word "telephone."
See
§ 1791b, supra; Funk v. Paul, 64 Wisconsin, 35. The mortgage of after-acquired property is good against the mortgagor's trustee in bankruptcy. Fisher v. Zollinger, 149 Fed.
Rep. 54; Union Trust Co. v. Bulkeley, 150 Fed. Rep. 510;

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Appellant.

216 U. S.

Mitchell v. Winslow, 2 Story, 630. These mortgages did not
grant to this corporation any use of its property which it
was not authorized by its charter to make, and they arc
not fraudulent or void. Place v. Langworthy, 13 Wisconsin,
704, distinguished, as there the support of the mortgagor and
his family was for an indefinite period. Sleinart.v. Deuster,
23 Wisconsin, 136; Blakeslee v. Rossman, 43 Wisconsin, 116;
Anderson v. Patterson,, 64 Wisconsin, 557; Bank v. Lovejoy,
84 Wisconsin, 601; Bank of Kaukauna v. Joannes, 98 Wisconsin, 321; Franzke v. Hitchon, 105 Wisconsin, 11; Durr v.
Wildish, 108 Wisconsin, .401, in which the mortgages were
held void under § 2310, can be distinguished from this case.
There is no rule of decision in the state court under which
these mortgages can be held to be frau(iulent and void.
"Whether or not they are fraudulent and void is a question of
evidence under §§ 2310 and 2323, a question "of fact and
not of law;" each case is sui juris. See Griswold v. Nichols,
126 Wisconsin,, 401; Densmore Co. v. Shong, 98 Wisconsin,
•380; Griswold v. Nichols, 117 Wisconsin, 267.
The bonds were executed and delivered for a valuable consideration. Rev. Stat., § 721, is not applicable to proceedings
in equity. Bucher v. Cheshire R. R. Co., 125 U. S. 555; Wade
v.. Travis Co., 174 U. S. .499, 508..
These mortgages were.specially authorized by the legislature, as appears by §§ 1780c and 1791b. The effect of these
sections has not been determined by the Supreme Court of
Wisconsin..
Section 70e of the bankrupt act supplants the statute or the
rule of policy in Wisconsin, whatever it may be, and requires
actual, intentional fraud on the partof the mortgagee. Coder
v. Arts, 213 U. S. 223.
The questions involved in this case are as much questions
of commercial law and general jurisprudence as they are of- a
rule of property in Wisconsin, and, therefore, any Wisc6nsin..
rule that may exist is not binding upon the Federal cQuTts.
Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20.

KNAPP v. MILWAUKEE TRUST CO.
216 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

The trustee in bankruptcy should have alleged and provedwhich it did not do-that the creditors did not have the knowledge or the time to question the validity of these mortgages
prior to the bankruptcy. Rogers v. Van Nortwick, 87 Wisconsin, 414, 431; Hamilton v. Quarry Co., 106 Wisconsin,
352; Graham v. RailroadCo., 102 U. S.148, 154.
The trustee in bankruptcy should have shown-which it did
not do-that there were no other available assets or funds out.
of which the claims of creditors could be satisfied. Mueller v.
Bruss, 112 Wisconsin, 406. The creditors are represented by the
trustees in bankruptcy. Viaquesney v. Allen, 131 Fed. Rep. 21.
The owner of these bonds is a bona fide purchaser within
the meaning of § 70e of the bankruptcy act. Croft v. Bunster,
9 Wisconsin, 503 (457); P. & S. R. R. Co. v. Thompson, 103
Illinois, 187. See Mercer County v. Hacket, 1 Wall. 83; Pine
Grove v. Talcott, 1!) Wall. 666.
This telephone company, under its charter powers was as
much a public service corporation as a railroad company,
and it was in fact operating a telephone exchange at Sheridan,.
Wisconsin, at the time it was thrown into bankruptcy.
Mr. George P. Miller and Mr. Edward P. Vilas for appellees:
The appeal -should be dismissed for failure to comply with
clause 3, General Order in Bankruptcy XXXVI. The decree
is not appealalle.
The agreement permitting the retention of possession by
the mortgagor, the sale of the mortgaged property, and the
application of the avails thereof to the mortgagor's own use
invalidates the mortgage.
The Wisconsin Supreme Court holds that a chattel mortgage which upon its face stipulates that the mortgagor may
retain possession of the mortgaged property, sell and dispose
of the same in the usual course of business, and appropriate
any part of such proceeds to his own use and benefit, is
fraudulent and void as to creditors, and that, even where the

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Appellees.

216 U. S.

provision does not appear upon the face of the mortgage, but
rests upon a contemporaneous agreement, express or implied.,
in p'arol 'or in writing, to such effect, the mortgage is likewise
rendered fraudulent and void as to creditors. Place v. Langworthy, 13 Wisconsin, 629; Steinart v. Deuster, 23 Wisconsin,
136; Blakeslee v. Rossman, 43 Wisconsin, 116; Anderson v.
Patterson, 64 Wisconsin, 557; Bank v. Lovejoy, 84 Wisconsin,
601, 611; Bank of Kaukauna v. Joannes, 98 Wisconsin, 321;
Baumbach Co. v. Hobkirk, 104 Wisconsin, 489;, Franzke v.
Hitchon, 105 Wisconsin, 11, 13; Durr v. Wildish, 108 Wisconsin, 401; In re Antigo Screen Door Co., 123 Fed. Rep. 249;
Security Warehousing Co. v. Hand, 206 U. S. 415; Zartman v.
First National Bank, 189 N. Y. 267; S. C., 19 A. B. R. 27;
Eastman v. Parkinson, 133 Wisconsin, 375.
The mortgagor in possession cannot be given the benefits
of unincumbered property, while the creditors are prevented
by reason of the mortgage from collecting their claims. This
vice in the instrument is as potent, so long as the mortgagor
is in actual possession, whether or not the right of possession
be in the mortgagee. Missinskie v. McMurdo, 107 Wisconsin, 578; Silkman Lumber Co. v. Hunholz, 132 Wisconsin,
610; Brewing Co. v. Lockery, 134 Wisconsin, 81, 82.
It is urged that general' creditors and the trustee in bankruptcy representing only such creditors cannot assert this
invalidity.
The Supreme Court of Wisconsin recognizes this right in
the trustee and is justified in so doing by the decisions of the
Federal courts. In re Antigo Screen Door Co., 123 Fed. Rep.
249; Security Warehousing Co. v. Hand, 206 U. 'S. 415; Mueller
v. Bruss, 112 Wisconsin, 406; Durr v. Wildish, 108 Wisconsin, 401;,Russell V. St. Mart, 180 N. Y. 355; Re Garcewich, 115 Fed. Rep. 87; Mitchell v. Mitchell, 147 Fed. Rep.
280.
This mortgage was not valid as to creditors. They were
prevented by the bankruptcy from proceeding to avoid it.
It could have been levied upon and sold under judicial 1process

KNAPP v. MILWAUKEE TRUST CO.
216 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

against this bankrupt. In re Bement, 172 Fed. Rep. 98;
In re Rodgers, 125 Fed. Rep. 169; Fourth St. Nat. Bank v.
Milbourne Mills Co.'.. Trustee, 172 Fed. Rep. 177; and see
Hewit v. Berlin Machine Works, 194 U. S. 296:
It is not necessary that the trustee should show that there
are not other available assets before this invalidity can be
asserted.
The failure by the creditors to assert the invalidity cannot
be construed as acquiescence. Blakeslee v. Rossman, 43
Wisconsin, 115.
The mortgage is void as to after-acquired property, book
accounts, contracts and choses in action. Farmers' Loan &
Trust Co. v. Commercial Bank, 11 Wisconsin, 207; Dinsmore
v. R. & M. R. R. Co., 12 Wisconsin, 649; Swift v. Comes,
20 Wisconsin, 397, 398; Motwry v. White, 21 Wisconsin, 417;
Chynoweth v. Tenney, 10 Wisconsin, 397; O'Neil v. Wm.B. 11.
Kerr Co., 124 Wisconsin, 234; Zartman v. FirstNational Bank,
189 N. Y. 267.
Constructive possession is forbidden by § 2310, Wisconsin
Stats. There must be the indicia of change of possession.
Schneider v. Kraby, 97 Wisconsin, 519; Missinskie v. McMurdo, 107 Wisconsin, 578; Silkman Lumber Co. v. Hunholz,
132 Wisconsin, 710; George Walter Brewing Co. v. Lockery,
134 Wisconsin, 81.
Failure to file the affidavits of renewal and the statements
required by the Wisconsin statutes after the sale of stock in
trade renders the mortgage void as to general creditors and
the trustee in bankruptcy. Mueller v. Bruss, 112 Wisconsin,
406; Jackman v. Eau Claire Nat. Bank, 125 Wisconsin, 465;
Skilto, v. Coddington, 185 N. Y. 80; S. C., 15 A. B. Rep.
810; In re Shireley, 112 Fed. Rep. 301; In re H. G. Andrae Co.,
117 Fed. Rep. 561; Chesapeake Shoe Co. v. Seldner, 122 Fed.
Rep. 593; In re Ducker, 134'Fed. Rep. 43; In re Beebe, 138,
Fed. Rep. 441, 454; Bradley, Alderson & Co. v. McAfee, 17
A. B. Rep. 495; S.C., 149 Fed. Rep. 254; Mitchell v. Mitchell,
17 A. B. Rep. 382; S.C., 147 Fed. Rep. 280.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

216 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the court.

The Standard Telephone and Electric Company, a Wisconsin corporation, was adjudicated a bankrupt in the District
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Wisconsin. Under its articles of association it was authorized to carry
on the business of selling appliances for telephone purposes and
operating telephone exchanges. It had established and was
operating a telephone exchange at the village of Sheridan,
Wisconsin, and was carrying on the business of manufacturing
and selling telephone apparatus in the city of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, where it had a stock in trade and trade fixtures. The
trustee in bankruptcy filed a petition to sell all the property
of the bankrupt. Appellant Knapp, as trustee of certain mortgages, given by the telephone company, intervened, and asked
to have the lien of the mortgage established as the first lien on
the property and satisfied out of the proceeds of the sale. The
property was sold, and the question is as to the lien of these
mortgages upon the fund.
The trustee in bankruptcy answered the petition of Knapp,
trustee under the mortgage, averring that it was a chattel
mortgage, and fraudulent and void as to creditors, because of
certain agreements contained therein, because it was on afteracquired property, and because of the failure to file an affidavit
of renewal as required by the Wisconsin statutes. The referee
in bankruptcy found the facts, and held the mortgage void.'
Upon hearing, the District Judge reached a like conclusion.
157 Fed. Rep. 106.
The Circuit- Court of Appeals of the Seventh Circuit upon
appeal affirmed the decree of the District Court, holding the
mortgage void for the reasons set forth at large in the opinion
of the District Judge. 162 Fed. Rep. 675.
A motion has been filed to dismiss the appeal for want of
findings of fact and conclusions of law in the Circuit Court of
Appeals, as required by General Order in Bankruptcy XXXVI.
Whether or not such a finding of facts was required depends

KNAPP v. MILWAUKEE TRUST CO.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

upon the character of the present proceeding. General Order
in Bankruptcy XXXVI, authorized under subdivision b of
§25 of the Bankruptcy Act, provides for appeals under the act
to this court from the Circuit Court of Appeals within thirty
(lays after the judgment or decree, and for the making and
filing of a finding of facts and conclusions of law separately
stated, and that the record upon such appeal shall consist only
of the pleadings, the judgment or decree, the finding of facts,
and conclusions of law.
Section 25b provides for appeals from any final decision of a
Court of Appeals allowing or rejecting a claim under the act,
under such rules and within such time as may be prescribed by
the Supreme Court of the United States. Such appeals are
allowed when the amount in controversy exceeds the sum of
$2,000, and the question involved might have been taken by
appeal or writ of error from the highest court of a State to the
Supreme Court of the United States; or where some Justice of
the Supreme Court of the United States shall certify that, in
his opinion; the determination of the question or questions involved in the allowance or rejection of such claim is essential to
a uniform construction of the Bankruptcy Act throughout the
United States.
Under authority of subdivisioA b, §.25, General Order
XXXVI was adopted, and in the cases enumerated a finding
of facts and conclusions of law must be made in the Circuit
Court of Appeals, and the appeal taken within thirty days
after the entry of the judgment or decree.
The case at bar is not of that class; it is an intervention in a
baankruptey proceeding, and, within the meaning of the act, a
colitroversy arising in a bankruptcy proceeding, and the appellate jurisdiction is the same as in like cases under-the Court
of Appeals Act. Bankruptcy Act, §-24a; Hewit v. Berlin Ma-.
(I.ne Works, 194 U. S.296; Coder V. Arts, 213 U. S.223, and
cases therein cited.
As the appeal was in the manner provided for in the Court
of Appeals Act no special finding of facts was required under

554

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

General Order XXXV1, and the motion to dismiss the appeal
must be overruled.
The mortgages in question, which were upon all the property and estate of the mortgagor, acquired, or to be acquired
in connection with or in relation to the business of the mortgagor, contain, among others, the following provisions:
"Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent
said first party from carrying on, in, the due and regular course,
its said business, and collecting the indebtedness and moneys
due or-to become due therein and applying the same to its own
use, except as hereinafter provided."
The mortgage makes provision for a sinking fund of $2,000
annually, $500 quarterly, out of the proceeds of the business,
or, if necessary, from the general resources; and the mortgage
contains this further provision:
"Said first party further agrec that no dividend shall be
declared or paid on its capital stock at any time when any
portion of said sinking fund or the interest on said bonds shall
not have been duly provided for according to the terms of this
indenture.
" Provided, however, That said trustee be and he is hereby
empowered and authorized in his discretion, and in case he
does not procure for the sinking fund any of said bonds at par
and accrued interest, upon application in writing by said first
party to waive the making by said party of full or any payment into or provision for said sinking fund for any quarter
year, and in the event of said trustee electing not to require
said first party to make such payment into or .provision for
such sinking fund, the moneys which would otherwise have
been placed therein for the purchase of said bonds as aforesaid shall remain at the disposition of said first party, to be
divided as dividends, or to enlarge, extend, improve, repair, renew, or rehabilitate its said described business and property."
It will be seen that under these provisions the mortgagor is
allowed to remain in possession of -the property, applying the
proceeds thereof to his own use, except that no dividends shall

KNAPP v. MILWAUKEE TRUST CO.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be declared or paid without first making provision for the
sinking fund and the interest on tile bonds, and with this important proviso-that the trustee tinder the mortgage may, in
his discretion, in case he does not procure for the sinking fund
bonds at par and accrued interest, upon the application of the
mortgagor, waive the payment into or provision for the sinking
fund for any (luarter year, and, in such case, the moneys which
would otherwise go into the sinking fund for the purchase of
bonds shall renmain at the disposition of the mortgagor, to be
distributed ais dividends, or to be used for the benefit of the
business and property in the manner described.
Section 2310, Wisconsin statutes, provides:
"Every sale made by a vendor of goods and chattels in his
possession or under his control, and every assignment of
goods and chattels, unless the same be accompanied by an
immediate delivery and be followed by an actual and continued change of possession of the things sold or assigned,
shall be presumed to be fraudulent and void as against the
creditors of the vendor, or the creditors of the person making
such assignment or subsequent purchasers in good faith, and
shall be conclusive evidence of fraud, unless it shall be made to
appear on the part of the person claiming, under such sale or
assignment, that the same was made in good faith and without
any intent to defraud such creditors or purchasers."
Section 2313 provides that no mortgage or sale of personal
property shall be valid against any other persons than the
parties thereto, unless the possession of the mortgaged property be delivered to and retained by the mortgagee, or, unless
mortgage, or a copy thereof, be filed as required by the
the
statute,
except as otherwise provided therein.
Section 2316b provides that a mortgagor in possession of a
stock of goods, from which he is permitted to make sales and
apply the proceeds upon the debt, shall file a statement showing the amount of sales, amount applied on mortgage and
amount of new stock bought every sixty (lays, and, upon his
failure to file such statement, the debt shall become immedi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

ately due, and after fifteen days the mortgage shall cease to be
a lien, except between the parties thereto.
It was found as a matter of fact that no statement was filed
of the amount of the sales, amount of new stock bought,
amount applied on mortgage, etc., every sixty days, as reqtired by the Wisconsin statute, § 2316b; that since the execution of the mortgage the company, in the course of its business,
made sales from the mortgag~d property and applied the proceeds to its own use; that the property was in possession of the
mortgagor; that Knapp, the trustee, knew that the business
was being so transacted; that it was understood that the business should be so transacted and sales of the mortgaged property so applied to the mortgagor's use.
While there was a finding that no intentional bad faith was
shown, still we agree with the Court of Appeals and the District
Judge that, under the law of Wisconsin, as construed by her
highest court, such conditions as were contained in these mortgages rendered them fraudulent in law and void as to creditors.
Merchants & Mechanics Bank v. Lovejoy, 84 Wisconsin, 601;
Bank of Kaukauna v. Joahnes, 98 Wisconsin, 321; Baumbach
Co. v. Hobkirk, 104 Wisconsin, 488;. Franzke v. Hitchon, 105
Wisconsin, 11; Durr v. Wildish, 108 Wisconsin, 401.
In this case the stipulations of the mortgages practically
permitted the mortgagor to dispose of the property for his
own benefit, except that it must make certain provisions for a
sinking fund and interest on the-bonds; and, with the consent
of the trustee, no provision need be made for the sinking fund,
or interest, and the moneys which otherwise would have been
placed therein for the purchase of bonds might be applied for
the benefit of the mortgagor, whether as dividends or for the
benefit of its business and property. Such provisions are
clearly within the Wisconsin decisions, for they permit the
mortgagor to have the benefit of the property, to keep it in tis
possession, and to appropriate the proceeds to his own use.
The Wisconsin dpcisions render such mortgages invalid as to
creditors, because the effect of suchi provisions is to give the

KNAPP'4. MILWAUKEE TRUST CO.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

beneficial use of the mortgaged property to the mortgagor in

possession, and to make possible the use of the mortgage as a
protection against creditors of the mortgagor when they shall

unidertake to assert their rights.
BIut it is said the trustee in bankruptcy may not defend
against these mortgages. It is contended that they are good
as between the parties, and that as to them the trustee in bankru)tey occupies no better positionthan the bankrupt. This
qluestion was raised and decided in Security Warehousing Co.
v. Hand, 206 U. S. 415. That case arose in Wisconsin, and
it was therein held that, under the Visconsin law, an attempted pledge of pro)erty, without change of possession, was
void under the laws of that State. In that case, as in this one,
the question was raised as to whether the trustee in bankruptcy could question the transaction, and it was contended
that, being valid as between the parties, the trustee took only
the right and title of the bankrupt. The question was fully
considered thereini, and the previous cases in this court were
reviewed. The principle was recognized that the trustee in
ha kruptcy stands in the shoes of the bankrupt, and that the
prop rty in his hanid.s is subject to the equities impressed upon
it wh.ile ii the hands of theIbankrupt.
But it was held that the attempt to create a lien upon the
property of the bankrupt was void as to general creditors under the laws of Wiseonsin. Applying § 70a of the Bankruptcy
Act, it was held that the trustee in bankruptcy was vested byoperation of the baiikrupt law with the title of the property
transferred by the bankrupt in fraud of creditors, and also tfiat
the trustee took the property which, prior to the filing of the
petitiomi might have been levied upon and soh by judicial
process against the bankrupt. It was therefore held that as
there had been nio valid pledge of the property, for want of
change of possession, it could have been levied upon and sold
under judicial process against the blnkrupt at the time of the
adjudication in bankruptcy and passed to the trustee in bankruptcy.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

Thc principles announced in Security Warehousing Co. v.

Hand, 206 U. S. 415, when applied to the present case are decisive of the question here presented. Under the Wisconsin
statutes and decisions of the highest court of that State the
conditions contained upon the face of this mortgage were
such as to render it fraudulent in law and void as to creditors,
and prior to the filing of the petition in bankruptcy the property might have been levied upon and sold by judicial process
against the bankrupt.
It is true that in Security Warehousing Co. v. Hand the court
said that the attempted pledge was a "mere pretense, a
sham;" but the courts of Wisconsin have held that such provisions as are in these mortgages, giving the bankrupt the right
to dispose of.the mortgaged property for its own benefit, rendered the conveyance fraudulent in law, and therefore void as
to creditors.. This brings the conveyance within the terms of
the Bankrupt Act, as one which the trustee may attack, as
conclusively as it would if fraudulent intent in fact were shown
to exist.
In Mueller v. Bruss, 112 Wisconsin, 4061 it was held that a
trustee in bankruptcy could maintain an action to set aside
a fraudulent conveyance, but that the complaint must aver
and the trustee must show that the estate had not sufficient
assets in the trustee's hands to satisfy the claims filed against
the debtor. And, it is insisted, that a showing of this character
is lacking in the present case. Without deciding that under
the Bankruptcy Act the answer of the trustee in bankruptcy
was required to make this averment, accompanied by proof if
necessary, it is sufficient upon this point to say that the intervening petition of the trustee of the mortgage sought to assert
a lien upon all the property of the bankrupt in the trustee's
hands. The suggestion in appellant's brief, that the trustee
in bankruptcy may possibly recover against directors and
officers of the corporation for dereliction of duty, and against
stockholders for unpaid subscriptions and additional liability
on their pirt, prescnt, no reason why he may not resist an

FRANKLIN v. UNITED STATES.
216 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

attempt to take all the available property in his hands to apply
on a mortgage void as to creditors at the time of the adjudication.
We are of opinion, for the reasons stated, that the mortgages
in question are void, and that undcr the Bankruptcy Law the
trustee can assert their invalidity.
Judgment ja~firmed.

FRANKLIN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TIlE
ROUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 736.

Submitted February 21, 1910.-1)ecided March 14, 1910.

The sixty-second article of war does not vest, nor purport to vest
exclusive jurisdiction in courts-martial, and civil courtg have concurrent jurisdiction over all offenses committed by a military
officer which may be punished under the provisions of that article.
The effect of § 3 of the acts of March 3, 1825, c. 65, 4 Stat. 115; April 5,
1866, c. 24, 14 Stat. 13, carried forward in § 5391, Rev. Stat.; and
July 7, 1898, c. 576, 30 Stat. 717, providing that the punishment
of offenses in places ceded by the State to the United States not
specially provided for by any law of the United States shall be the
same as that provided for by the law of the State ceding the place
where the offense was committed, is limited to the criminal laws
in force in the several States at the time of the enactment of the
legislation, and those statutes do not delegate to such States authority to in any way change the criminal law of the United States.
United States v. Paul, 6 Pet. 141.
Jurisdiction of this court under the act of 1891 of a direct appeal
from the Circuit Court cannot be based on constitutional points
that are absolutely unfounded in substance as in this case.

indictments were returned against plaintif in error
by the grand Jury in the Southern District of New York. In
the first of said indictments he was charged with the embezzleTHREE

