OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

216 U. S.

is due to the company from the United States for extra work
caused by the United States the sum of $49,792.66.
The judgment -of the Court of Claims is reversed and the case
remanded to that court, with instructions to enter judgnwnt
for that amount,

J. J. McCASKILL COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR 'THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 103. Argued January 25, 1910.-Decided February 28, 1910.
In this case it was held that the averments set forth in the bill of
fraud and perjury in ex parte proceedings before the land office were
sufficient to give a c-ourt of equity jurisdiction of a suit brought by
the United States to cancel a lpatent.
In this case the testimony sustained the averments of the bill that the
patent was obtained by fraud.
The rule that courts will not review decisions of the Land Department
on questions of fact or reverse discretion properly exercised does
not prevent the courts from setting aside a patent obtained by fraud
upon the Department.
The presumption that a corporation is, in law, an entity distinct from
its stockholders and officers cannot be carried so far as to enable
the corporation to become a means of fraud; and knowledge of fraud
on the part of the officers, who are also the principal stockholders
and whose interests are identical, is properly to be imputed to the
corl)oration itself.
In this case the testimony of an agent of the General.Land Office as to
conversations and admissions made by the entryman, with knowledge that he was a government officer seeking the facts as to the
settlement of the land, was properly admitted, as was also the
report made by such officer who testified as to the facts recited
therein.
When testimony is admitted, but is not followed up by other testimony
necessary to give it effect, this court will assume that the court
below attributed to it no probative strength.

McCASKILL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
216 U. S.
THE

Opinion of the Court.

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. W. W. Flournoy for appellant.
Mr. Assislant Attorney General Russell for te United States.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought by the United States to cancel a
patent issued to one W\illiam Josiah \Vard and a deed made by
him and his wife to J. J. MeC(,askill & Company, and by the
latter to the J.'J. McCaskill Company, the ap)ellant. The allegations of the bill are that tlieN.

.

of the N. E. J, S. W. 1 of

the N. E. -, and S. E. + of N. AV. I of section 8, township 1 N.,
17 W., in the county of Walton, State of Florida, being public lands of the United States, William Josiah Ward, on the
eighteenth of Sep'tember, 1900, filed his application upon them
for a homestead in the land oflce in Gainesville, Fla. That he
subsequently commuted the entry by paying the Government
price therefor, making proof of settlement, cultivation and
improvement for the period of titpe required by law, and that
on January 13, 1903, a cash entry certificate No. 18,026 was
issued to him and a patent on the third of June, 1903. It is
alleged, with detail of circumstances, that the statement of
Ward and the proof presented by him on the hearing for final
proof were false, fraudulent and untrue. The allegations will
be given later. The bill further alleges that the land embraced
in the patent was conveyed by Ward to J. J. McCaskill & Company (the bill as originally filed alleged that the conveyance
had been made to the McCaskill Company), a copartnership
composed of J. J. McCaskill and E. L. McCaskill, then engaged
in the manufacture of lumber at Freeport, Fla. That they
afterward incorporated by the corporate name of the J. J. McCaskill Company, with the said J. J. MeCaskill as president
and Robert E. L. McCaskill as secretary, owning a lai'ge.majority of the stock of the corporation, with the entire manage-.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

ment and control of its business and affairs. That the company took over from the said J. J. McCaskill or J. J. McCaskill
& Company the homestead entry of Ward, with full knowledge
of its president and secretary of the negotiations between the
company and the entryman by Warren Ward, an agent of
the company, "and with all the knowledge and notice of the
said McCaskill & Company of the fraud and duplicity practiced by William Josiah Ward in obtaining the patent from
the United States."
The answer of the company alleged that conveyance was
made by William Josiah Ward to J. J. McCaskill after the
patent was issued for the sum of four hundred and twenty-five
dollars; that McCaskill, for a valuable consideration, sold and
conveyed the same to the McCaskill Company; that the conveyance was made in good faith, without notice or knowledge
of any kind whatsoever of any irregularity or fraud upon the
part of Ward, if apy there was, and that he was a bona fide
purchaser of the property; and that the company was a bona
fide purchaser, for a valuable consideration from J. J. McCaskill, and without knowledge or notice of 'any irregularity or
fraud practised by Ward. The usual replication was filed and
an examiner was appointed to take the proofs on the issues
made.
Upon report to the court a decree was entered overruling
the objections of the company to the evidence and the motion
to strike it out, and adjudged and decreed that the patent be
declared null and void, and that it be surrendered by the company, the decree finding it to be in its possession, to the clerk
of the court, to be inscribed by him "null and void." It was
further adjudged and decreed that the deed from William
Josiah Ward tp J. J. McCaskill & Company andthe deed from
the latter to the J. J. McCaskill Company be vacated and annulled, and the company be enjoined forever from setting up
or claiming title to the land by reason of the patent or any of
the conveyances from Ward. The decree was affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals.'

McCASKILL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

There are twenty-three assignments of errors, eighteen of
which are addressed to rulings on evidence and five attack, in
general terms, the decree cancelling the patent and the conveyance by Ward. These five were alone discussed in the oral
argument and in the brief on file under the following divisions:
"1. Are the averments of the bill of complaint sufficient to
give the court of equity jurisdiction?
"2. Do the facts proved by the Government sustain the
averment that the final )roof of the entryman was false, fraudulent and untrue?
"3. Will this court review decisions by the land office officials upon questions of fact?
"4. Does the appellant occupy the position of an innocent
purchaser and is the Government precluded because of his
rights as such?"
1. To support the first proposition it is urged that the bill
does not allege the facts upon which the charge of fraud in obtaining the patent was baied and therefore "presents no issue
for trial and should fail upon demurrer." But there was no
demurrer filed to the bill. The only answer to paragraphs four
and five (set out below) was that as to the facts of the former
the company was not advised; that as to the facts of the latter
it had "no knowledge," and denied, therefore, that they were
true, and demanded strict proof of them. The first and only
explicit objection to the bill for insufficiency is made in the
brief filed in this court. But, conceding it covered by the assignments of error discussed by counsel and entertaining it,
we think that it is without foundation. The following are its
averments:
"Your orator shows unto your honor that the said William
Josiah Ward, in the commutation proof taken on the 29th
day of December, 1902, alleged himself, and made it appear
by the testimony of others, that he had established a residence
upon said land on March 10th, 1901, and that he continuously,
resided thereon from that date until and up to the date of
submission of final proof, except for absences on two or three

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

occasions of not exceeding three months, due to the illness of
his wife; that he had improved the tract by erection'of a house
thereon and by cultivating one-half acre for two seasons, and
the whole amount of improvements being alleged to be of the
value of forty ($40.00) dollars, and that he had complied with
the law entitling him to a patent to said lands.
"Your orator further shows unto the court that the statement of the said Ward and the proof presented by him on the
hearing for final proof was false, fraudulent and untrue i that
he did not have the improvements that he alleged that he had
on said premises, and had not cultivated the said land; that
the improvements accomplished on said entry consisted of
nothing more than a pine-pole cabin, never completed, without floor, door or chimney; that there was absolutely no means
of entrance or exit thereto or therefrom, unless through the
unenclosed gable ends of said cabin; that the interstices betweeni the poles of said cabin were never closed in any fashion;
that, t lie only ground on said entry which had undergone cultivation was a space within an enclosure of thirty by thirtyfive feet; that the said Ward never resided upon said land, but
during the period allowed for residence on the homestead entry, entryman actually resided at his home, where for a long
time he had maintained his residence, three-and one-half miles
distant from said entry."
Appellant relie4 for its contention upon United States v.
Throckrnorlon, 98 U. S. 61; Vance v. Burbank, 101 U. S. 514;
United States v. Maxwell Land Grant, 121 U. S. 325, and other
cases of like kind. We will not take the time to review them.
It is enough to say that it was pointed out in United States v.
Minor, 114 U. S. 233, that they do not apply to a case like
that at bar, where the charge is that there was fraud and perjury in ex parte proceedings before the land office. See also
United States v. San Jacinto Tin Company, 125 U. S. 273;
Moffat v. United States, 112 IT. S. 24; United States v. Iron
Silver Mining Compoay, 128 U. S. 673; ColoradoCoal Company
v. I nited Slates, 123 IT. S. 307; United States v. Beebe, 127

McCASKILL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 338; United States v. Budd, 154 U. S. 15; United States v.
American Bell Company, 167 U. S. 224.
2. This division involves the sufficiency of the evidence to
sustain the decree. The argument at bar has not kept this
division separate from the first or the first from it. They are
manifestly different. The first concerns the sufficiency of the
bill, this the sufficiency of the evidence. In other words,
whether the evidence has established the averments of the
bill, assuming them to be sufficiently, specific, by clear and
satisfactory proof. And it may be conceded that that is the
degree of proof that the cases require. It was said in United
States v. Maxwell Land Grant, supra, "that when a court of
equity is asked to set aside a patent for fraud or mistake, the
testimony on which this is done must be clear, unequivocal
and convincing, and cannot be done upon a bare preponderance of evidence which leaves the issue in doubt."
Does the case at bar fill the measure of proof required by
the cases? In this inquiry we start with the finding of the two
lowei courts in the affirmative. Appellant attacks the finding,
but, as we.have said, does not keep the discussion of this inquiry separate from the consideration of the sufficiency of the
bill. In both stress is put upon the same proposition. It is
contended that the allegations of the bill that the proofs submitted by Ward to the land office were fraudulent and untrue
was a mere legal conclusion, and that besides it was solely
the province of the land office officials to determine such
matter, and "thus may, in their discretion, issue patents to
persons upon evidence of improvement and cultivation of
greater or less value and extent, the extent in value of the
It is further
improvement being solely in their discretion.'
argued that "the statutes governing the disposition of the
public lands required neither a limited amount of improvement nor an absolute :continuous residence," and "that when
an entryman has clearly set forth the amount of the improvements, however small, and the department has issued a patent
thereupon, then the question of the amount, or extent, is for-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

ever put at rest." The purpose of the law, it is further argued,,
"is to give a part of the public domain to the poor man, and
that therefore temporary abandonment, for the purpose of
earning a livelihood or support his family, or to secure funds
with which to make improvements, or on account of sickness,
as in the case at bar, is permissible." The value and amount
of improvement, it is finally urged, is immaterial except to detract from the good faith of the entryman, "and then only
when accompanied with evidence of the ability of the entryman to make more improvements than in fact were made."
These tests may be accepted, arguendo, and the fraud of Ward
is established.
The averment of the bill is that he deceived the land office
by false testimony of the extent of his improvements, cultivation and residence, and secured his patent by that deception.
In other words, that the judgment and discretion of the land
office were invoked, not upon the actual extent of his improvements, cultivation and residence, but upon a misrepresentation
of their extent. See United States v. Minor, supra.
It may be well here to consider what the law requires. It
.gives the right of entry of 160 acres of land as a homestead,
upon the condition, however, which must be established by
affidavit, that the "application is honestly and in good faith
made for the purpose of actual settlement and cultivation and
not for the benefit of any other person." That applicant will
honestly endeavor to comply with the requirements of settlement and cultivation, and does not apply to enter the same
for the purpose of speculation. The purpose of the law, therefore, is to give a home, and to secure the gift the applicant
must show that he has made the land a home. Five years of
residence and cultivation for the term of five years he must
show by two credible witnesses.
Residence and cultivation of the land are the price that is
exacted for its payment. It is in the power of the settler to
modify the terms somewhat. He may substitute for a residence and cultivation for five years a residence and cultiva-

McCASKILL CO. v. UNITED. STATES.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion for not less than fourteen months, but he must make
"proof of settlement and of residence and cultivation for such
period of fourteen months," and pay the price provided by
law for the land entered. This is known as the "commutation" of his homestead entry.
In view of these provisions of law we may judge of what
Ward did. ie entered the land as a homestead, and on the
eighth of September, 1900, filed the affidavit required, stating
that he made his application honestly and in good faith, for the
purpose of actual cultivation and settlement, and not for the
benefit of any other person. On the twenty-ninth of December, 1902, lie produced two witnesses to establish his residence,
cultivation and character of his improvements, one of whom
testified that he was well acquainted with Ward and the land
embraced in Ward's claim; that it was "low piney woods land,
very wet in rainy seasons." His testimony as to Ward's
residence and cultivation of the land is best exhibited by the
following questions and answers:
"Q. 5. When did claimant settle upon the homestead, and
at what date did he establish actual residence thereon?
"A. About the 9th of March, 1901.
*

.*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"Q. 6. Have claimant and family resided continuously on
the homestead since first establishing residence thereon?
"A. I don't think they have continuously. I have seen
them absent from it a time or two.
"Q. 7. For what period or periods has the settler beep
absent from the land since making settlement, and for what
purpose; and, if tehnporarily absent, did claimant's family
reside upon and cultivate the land during such absence?
"A. I have known of their being absent a time or two, but
he has not been off of it over three months at the longest
period. His wife is very feeble, and the land is so low and wet
that, on account of her health as well as to make a support,
he was compelled to be absent. I presume he has been on it
nearly every week."

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

The other witness was: even more definite.

216 U. S.

Answering a

question as to the continuity of the residence of Ward and

his family on the land, he said that he could not say "whether
continuous or not, have not been there all the time, they were
there every time I have been there, but on one or two occasions
have seen theem off the land." Aid further, as to the absence

of Ward and his familyhe said: "I don't know exactly how
long, but am satisfied they have not been absent over six
months at the longest for the purpose of making a support, and
on account of the land being so low and wet afid unfit for
cultivation." Both witnesses gave the extent of cultivation
to be one-half acre for two years and the improvement to
-consist of'a house and garden of the value of forty or fifty
dollars.
Ward himself testified that he established his residence oil
the tenth of March, 190i, and that his improvcrint consisted
of a small dwelling house and a garden of about Oel-half acre
of land, worth about forty dollars. He testified further as
follows:
"Q. 5. Of whom does your family consist; and have you
and ybur family resided continuously on the land since first
establishing residence thereon?
"A. Myself and wife. No, not continuously; that is, not
every day and night.

"Q. 6. For what period or periods have you been 'absent
from the homestead since making settlement, and for what
purpose;, and, if temporarily absent,. did your family reside
upon and cultivate the land during such 4bsence?
"A. Was absent two or three times, not over three months
at longest period, on account of my wife's health. She is very
feeble, and the land is so low and wet, that it was impossible
to keep her on the place all the time."
And he further testified that he had not sold, conveyed or
mortgaged any portion of the land. This testimony would
have established, if true, that Ward With his family took up

McCASKILL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

his residence on the land on the tenth of March, 1901, that his
improvement consisted of a small dwelling house, fit for labitation, and a garden of one-half acre, cultivated two seasons,
and that after making his settlement he was absent only
"two or three times, not over three months," at longest,
"on account of his (witness') health." This was the testimony upon which the land department acted. What is the
evidence in this case? His two sons never saw him on the
land, but always saw him at his residence, four or five miles
from the land. He testifies himself that he never moved his
family there; that the house was built of pine poles, was
twelve by fourteen in dimensions, had no. floor, no chimney,
no "ceiling or boards on between the poles or the interstices;"
that he fenced and cultivated "a small piece, not larger then
the house," and this was enclosed by rails and poles and
planted two years. His residence upon the land is described
in the following questions and answers:
"Q. Did you ever have your family there on any night?
Ever spend any night with your family there?
"A. I stayed there at night myself. My wife did not go
there. She was very sickly.
"Q. About how many nights in the week did you spend
there?
"A. I do not think I stayed in the same week more than
one night in the week."
And there is other testimony showing that the house was
unfit for habitation. A special agent of the General Land
Office inspected the place. He found, he said, "a little pole
cabin, 11x13, not completed, and.there was no door to go in
and out, of. There was no window, no chimney, the openings
between the poles were not closed, the gable ends were not
closed." He further testified that there was no evidence of any
residence or habitation there at all. And further, "there was
a little enclosure, 30x35 feet, a little amount that was about
a quarter of a mile from the house." This witness also testified to the conversation with Ward, in which the latter told
VOL. -cxvi-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court..

216 U. S.

him that he (Ward) had not lived on the hQmestCad entry, and
thatbhe thought that he was going to lose it. We think that
this testimony sustains the averments of the bill that the
patent Was obtaihed by fraud. This is not a case where the
courts are undertaking to review the decisions of the lan(d
office officials onquestions of fact nor to r~everse their discretion properly exercised. It is a case of fraud upon them
and obtaining a patent by means of that fraud.
-Does appellant occupy the position of the innocent purchaser, and is the Government precluded from receiving the
relief prayed for in the bill because of such fact? The answer
to the question depends upon a proposition of law, aiAd whether
.1. J. McCaskill had knowledge of the fraudulent acts of Ward.
This knowledge was,: in effect, found by both the lower courts,
and, giving to their finding the strength that should be
accorded to it, 'we pass to the consideration of the proposition
of law that the knowledge of J. J. McCaskill, though president
of .the McCaskill Company, cannot be imputed to it because,
as appellants' argument is, while the knowledge of an agent
is the knowledge of the principal, an P' exception to the rule
is that if the agent is icting in a matter in which he has
a personal interest, or in communication with which he is interested with a third per~on, the presumption is that he will not
contmunicatethe facts in controversy." And it-is urged that
"the rule should be more rigidly applied in cases of fraud or
torts." For these propositions appellant cites Clark v. Metropolitan Bank, 3 Duer (N. Y.), 241; Frenkel v. Hudson, 82 Alabama, 162).Allen v. South. P. R. R. Co., 150 Massachusetts, 200;
Innerarity v. Mer. Natl. Bank, 139 Massachusetts, 332; Atlantic
'National Bank v. Harris, 118 Massachusetts, -147; Loring v.
Brodie, 134 Massachusetts, 453; Hightstown v. Christopher,40
N. J. L. 435. "
Undoubtedly a corporation is, in law, a person or entity
entirely distinct from its stockholders and officers. It may
have interest distinct from theirs. Their interests, it may be
conceived, may be adverse to its interest, and hence has arisen

MCASKILL CO. v. UNITED. STATES.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

against the presumption that their knowledge is its knowledge,
the counter presumption that in transactions with it when
their interest is adverse their knowledge will not be attributed
to it. But while this presumption should be enforced to protect the corporation it should not be carried so far as to enable
the corporation to become a means of fraud or a means to
evade its responsibilities. A growing tendency is therefore
exhibited in the courts to look beyond the corporate form to
the purpose of it and to the officers who are identified with that
purpose. Illustrations are given of this in Cook on Corporations, §§ (63, 664 and 727. The principle was enforced in
this court'in Simmons Creek Coal Company v. Doran, 142 U. S.
417. In that case a corporation claimed title to land through
a deed of its corporators, one of whom became its president.
Of the effect of this the court said: "Associated together to
carry forward a common enterprise, the knowledge or actual
notice of all these corporators, and the president was the knowledge or notice of the company, and if constructive notice bound
them it bound the company."
The case at bar is within the principle. The bill alleges
that J. J. McCaskill and Robert E. L. McCaskill were copartners and engaged in the manufacture of lumber at Freeport,
Fla. They incorporated this business, it is alleged, under the
laws of Florida, "by the corporate name of J. J. McCaskill
Company, with the said J. J. McCaskill as president and the
said Robert E. L. McCaskill as secretary, owning a large
majority of the stock of said corporation, with the entire
management and control of the business and affairs of said
corporation." There is no denial of this allegation. The
interest of the corporators and the corporation thus shown to
be identical, not adverse, we think the ruling in Simmons Creek
Coal Company v. Doran is applicable.
This discussion disposes of the five assignments of error
which were presented at the oral argument. The other assignments of error are based on rulings upon the admission of
evidence.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

These assignments are grouped by counsel in two classes:
(1) one to three being based upon the action of the trial court
in admitting the testimony of Antonine Paul, which we have
given; (2) four to eighteen attack the ruling of the court in
admitting testimony of the purchase by the company of other
homestead claims.
To support the contention. that the court erred in its ruling
admitting the testimony of Paul it is urged that no foundation had been laid for it by an indication of time, place and
circumstances. The record shows that these conditions were
satisfied. The witness' attention was drawn to the statement
by him to Paul, and he himself testified that it was made at
his dwelling house, and testified that he signed the statement.
It is clear, therefore, that the witness was given opportunity to explain. The circumstances and occasion of making, the statement were drawn to his attention and the, person
to whom it was made. He knew that Paul was a Government
agent, seeking the exact facts as to his, the witness', settlement
upon the land. He could not have underrated the importance
of the relation of the statement to his testimony and the
necessity of a clear explanation of it.
The statement was made the basis of a report to the land
office and was introduced in evidence over the objection of the
company's counsel. This seems more to have been done for
a connected statement of. the facts'than for proof of them.
The facts were testified to by Paul. We cannot see that there
was prejudicial error in the ruling of the court.
The assignments of error in the second class are also without merit. The purpose of the testimony of other transactions,
counsel say, was "to show a systematic course Qf dealing by
McCaskill, such as would support a contentiothat he had
guilty knowledge of whatever fraud might exist in the procurement of the patent in litigation.'? It is admitted that the testimony was competent for such purpose, but it is contended
it should have been accompanied by evidence showing that
such other transactions were false and-fraudulent, and this,'

ORLEANS PARISH v. N. Y. LIFE INS. CO.
216 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

it is insisted, was not done. If so, the testimony was harmless. In other words, if the testimony was not followed up
by other testimony which was necessary to give it effect we
may assume that the court below gave to it no value or probative strength. It must be kept in mind that the case was
tried by the court.
Decree affirmed.

BOARD OF ASSESSORS OF THE PARISH OF ORLEANS, THE CITY OF NEW ORLEANS, v. NEW
YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 112.

Argued January 27, 1910.-Decided February 28, 1910.

Where a policy-holder simply withdraws a portion of the reserve on
his policy for which the life insurance company is bound, and there
is no personal liability, it is not a loan or credit on which the company can he taxed as such, and this is not affected by the fact that
the policy-holder gives a note on which interest is necessarily
charged to adjust the account.
To tax such accounts as credits in a State where the company hag
made the advances would be to deprive the company of its property without due process of law. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. v.
New Orleans, 205 U. S. 395, distinguished.
Even if a State can tax a bank deposit that is created only to leave
the State at once, a statute purporting to levy a tax upon all property within the State should not be construed, in the absence of
express terms or a direct decision to that effect by the state court,
as intending to include such a deposit; and so held as to the statute
of Louisiana involved in this case.
158 Fed. Rep. 462, affirmed.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Gen. H. Terriberry,Mr. H. GarlandDupre and Mr. Harry
P. Sneed for appellants:
The property here taxed falls under "credits"' and "cash"

