OC''OBElt 'I'TM,1909.
Syllabus.

216 U. S.

Company, could not claim the benefit of an irrepealable, unchangeable contract relating to taxation that passed or could,
under the state constitution, have passed, unimpaired from

the old company to a successor in interest, or that prevented
the State from enacting the statute of 1903, chapter 253, General Laws of 1903. Without repeating what was said in the
former case, we hold, upon the grounds set forth in the opinion
in that case, that the state court rightly held that the State
was not prevented by contract from passing the gross earnings
tax law of 1903, and it properly reversed the judgment of the
court of original jurisdiction, with directions to enter judgmienit in favor of the State for the amount claimed in its complaint. The judgment herein imust be affirmed.
It is so ordered.

BALLINGER, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, v.
UNITED STATES EX RIEL. FROST.'
ERROR TO THEf, COURT

OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 54.

Argued December 8, 1909.-Decided February 21, 1910.

The power of supervision and correction vested in the Siuretary of the
Ihterior over Indian allotments is not unlimitd and arbitrary; it
cannot be exercised to deprive any person of land the title to which
has lawfully vested.
However reluctant the courts may be to interfere with the executive
department, they must prevent attempted deprivation of lawfully
acquired property and it is their duty to see that rights which have
become vested pursuant to legislation of Congress are not disturbed
by any action of an executive officer.
Docket title: No. 54. James Rudolph Garfield, Secretary of the
Interior, v. The United States of America ex rel. Frost.

BALLINGER v. FROST.
216 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The head of a department of the Government is bound by the provisions of congressional legislation which he cannot violate, however laudable may be his motives.
After all the requirements of the act of Congress providing fori distribution of Indian lands have been complied with, and the statutory
period has elapsed without contest, the title of the allottee becomes
fixed and absolute and only the ministerial duty of execution and
delivery of the patent remains for the Secretary of the Interior.
The performance of a ministerial duty by an executive officer can be
compelled by mandamus; and so held as to the delivery of patent to
land selected by a Cherokee Indian allottee after all requirements of
the acts of Congress under which the selection was made had been
complied with.
30 App. D. C. 165, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Harr for plaintiff in error:
Although mandamus will issue against an executive officer
to do a purely administrative act in which he has no discretion it will not issue as to any duty involving any discretion.
United States v. Black, 128 U. S. 40, 48; Riverside Oil Co. v.
Hitchcock, 190 U. S.316, 335.
In this case it was necessary for the Secretary to decide
whether the land was allottable and if so to the allottee or
the town dweller.
The supervisory power of the Secretary of the Interior
arises from the Revised Statutes and the express terms and
necessary implication of the allotment acts. Rev. Stat.,
§§ 441, 463; Act of June 28, 1898, 30 Stat. 506; § 24, Act of
July 1, 1902, 32 Stat. 641, 644; Act of May 31, 1900, 31 Stat.
221, 236; Act of March 3, 1903, 32 Stat. 982, 996; 25 Op.
Atty. Gen. 460, 464; West v. Hitchcock, 205 U. S.80, 84.
That the Secretary's approval is necessary has therefore
been determined by two departments-the one charged with
administration of these acts and the other charged with construction of statutes for advice of the Executive. A settled
construction by the departments will not be overturned by
VOL. ccxvi-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

216 U. S.

the courts unless clearly wrong. United States v. Healy, 160
U. S. 136, 145; Hewett v. Schultz, 180 U. S. 139, 157; United
States v. Finnell, 185 U. S. 236, 244.
The supervisory power of the Secretary of the Interior continues until ultimate, final action, whereby the title passesthat is, until his approval of the patent and authorization of
its delivery. Hy-yu-tse-mil-ken v. Smith, 194 U. S. 401;
West v. Hitchcock, supra. And see also as to the extent of
supervisory power of the Secretary: Knight v. Land Association, 142 U. S. 161, 177; Orchard v. Alexander, 157 U. S. 372,
381; Stoneroad v. Stoneroad, 158 U. S. 240, 249; Williams v.
United States, 138 U. S. 514; Iron Co. v. United State.s, 165
U. S. 379; Wallace v. Adams, 204 U. S. 415; and see case below, 143 Fed. Rep. 716, 720.
The Secretary of the Interior never -authorized allotment
of this tract. Determination as to whether it was allottable
or not was under his consideration until October 23, 1905,
when he decided in the negative.
The allotment certificate no more passes title than does
the final certificate upon a public-land entry. Until patent
issues and title passes, the right to the title is subject to
investigation; equitable rights come within the cognizance
of the Secretary, and the final receipt, or its analogue, the
allotment certificate, may for good cause be annulled. Guaranty Savings Bank v. Bladow, 176 U. S. 448, 453; Michigan
Lumber Co. v. Rust, 168 U. S. 589, 592, 593; Barden v. Northern Pacific R. R. Co., 154 U. S. 288, 326, 327.
Until the legal title passes from the Government inquiry
as to equitable rights comes within the cognizance of the
Land Department. Brown v. Hitchcock, 173 U. S. 473, 478;
Oregon v. Hitchcock, 202 U.. S. 60, 70.
The. Secretary of the Interior was, from the first legislation
looking to dissoluticn of tribal relations of the Five Civilized
Tribes, made supervising head of all agencies to effect that
policy, and the magnitude of the work was such that some
supervising head was necessary.

BALLINGER v. FROST.
216 U. S.

Argurhent for Defendant in Error.

The magnitude of the work appears when it is considered
that these acts involved disposal of 28,440 square miles18,202,000 acres-(Annual Rep. Sec'y Interior, 1902, part 1,
pp. 596, 597) inhabited in 1900 by 355,225 people (12th Census, vol. I, p. XVIII), estimated in'1906 at 750,000, of which
only 92,122 were citizens of Indian tribes. (Report Com. Ind.
Affairs, 1906, p. 148.) Less than one in eight could claim
title as Indians to the land they inhabited.
The Secretary's decision made such disposal of the land
as a court having jurisdiction in like case must inevitably
have made, as the only just, proper, or lawful disposal of the
land.
Mr. Charles H. Merillat, with whom Mr. CharlesJ. Kappler,
Mr. H. C. Potter and Mr. E. A. Walker were on the brief, for
I
defendant in error:
The Secretary of the Interior having refused to add the
land in controversy to the town site of Mill Creek and that
being within his discretion his decision is not open to review.
But 'having acted he thereafter could not reverse himself
subsequent to defendant in error acquiring a sole indefeasible
right in the land. Linn v. Belcher, 24 How. (U. S.) 526; Steel
v. St. Louis Smelting Co., 106 U. S. 228; J6hnson v. Towsley,
13 Wall. 83; Noble v. Union River Logging Co., 147 U. S.
170.
Defendant in error had acquired a vested interest of which
she cannot be deprived by the Secretary of the Interior or
any other tribunal save a court of equity, for good cause and
in accordance with settled procedure in equity. United States
v. Schurz, 102 U. S. 169; Wallace v. Adams, 143 Fed. Rep.
716; Cornelius v. Kessel, 128 U. S. 456.
Executive officers derive their powers from the statutes.
Not only must an officer have jurisdiction of -the subjectmatter but he must also keep within the limits of the power
conferred on him by statute. Where the statute defines he
cannot, under the name of administration, make law. United

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

States v. Thurber, 28 Fed. Rep. 56; United States v. McDaniel,
7 Pet. 1, 14.
After issuance of the allotment certificate the issuance of a
patent as a more formal muniment or evidence of title was
but a ministerial act, performance of which will be coerced.
United States v. Stone, 2 Wall. 535.
An act is none the less ministerial because the person performing it may have to satisfy himself that the state of facts
exists under which it is his right and duty to perform the act.
Flourndy v. Jeffersonville, 17 Indiana, 169; Crane v. Camp,
12 Connecticut, 463; Roberts v. Valentinc, 176 U. S. 221; l'Vest
v. Hitchcock, 19 App. 1). C. 333; Barney v. Dolph, 97 U. S.
397; Fra.,her v. O'Connor, 115 U. S. 315..
The allotment certificate is declared by statute to be
"conclusive evidence" of the holder's right to the land. It
comprises an adjudication and conveyance of the allottee's.
Tight to the land. Wallace v. Adams, 204 U. S. 415, distinguished.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant in error, a citizen and resident of the Choctaw Nation in the Indian Territory, whose enrollment had
been approved by the Secretary of the Interior, and who was
entitled to an allotment under the acts of Congress, on December 20, 1906, filed her petition in the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia for a mandamus compelling the
Secretary of the Interior to deliver, or cause to be delivered,
to her a patent to a tract of land eqnsisting of'fTrty acres,
located in the Choetaw Nation in the .Indian Territory, and
which she had selected in accordance with law. The then
Secretary of the Interior, Ethan A. Hitchcock, filed an answer,
giving his reasons for declining to issue the patent. Subsequently, James R. Garfield becoming Secretary of the Interior,
was substituted as defendant, and filed an amended answer.
A demurrer to the amended answer having been sustained,

BALLINGER v. FROST.
216 U' S.

Opinion of the Court.

judgment was entered as prayed for, which was affirmed by
the Court of Appeals of the District, and thereupon the case
was brought to this court. After the record had been filed
in this court, and during the present term, Richard A. Ballinger, the successor of Secretary Garfield, was substituted for
him as plaintiff in error.
The facts essential to a decision are briefly these: By treaty
between the Choctaw Nation and the United States, dated
September 27, 1830 (7 Stat. 333), and the proclamation of
the President of the United States of February 24, 1831, the
United States caused "to be conveyed to the Choctaw Nation
a tract of country west of the Mississippi River, in fee simple
to them and their descendants, to inure to them while they
shall exist as a nation and live on it." By subsequent treaties
and agreements the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations were consolidated. The nations have not become extinct, and are
still resident on the lands. The act of June 28, 1898, c. 517
(30 Stat. 495), authorized the allotment of the land to the
Choctaws and Chickasaws in fair and equal- proportions, and
provided that this should be done under the direction of the
Secretary of the Interior; also, that as soon as practicable
after the completion of the said allotment the principal chief
of the Choctaw Nation and the governor of the Chickasaw
Nation should jointly execute under their hands and the
seals of their respective nations and deliver to their allottees
patents conveying to them all the right, title and interest of
the Indians in and to the lands allotted. The act of May 31,
1900, c. 598 (31 Stat. 221), also authorized the Secretary of
the Interior to lay out, survey and plat the sites of such towns
as then had a population of two hundred or more, and that
he might, upon the recommendation of the Commission to
the Five'Civilized Tribes, at any time before the allotment
set aside and reserve, not exceeding 160 acres in any one
tract, at such stations as were or should be established on
the line of any railway which should be constructed or be in
process of construction in or through either of said nations

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
.Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

prior to the allotment of the lands therein. These townsite
provisions were incorporated into the act of March 1, 1901,
c. 675 (31 Stat. 848, 851).
On October 26, 1900, the townsite of Mill Creek, containing
155.45 acres, on which there was a railway station, was designated and laid out. The land in controversy is adjacent to
that townsite. Section 45 of the act of July 1, 1902, c. 1362
(32 Stat. 6'41), authorized an addition to such townsites on
the recommendation of the Commission to the Five Civilized Tribes, not exceeding 640 acres, and the appropriation
act of March 3, '1903, c. 994 (32 Stat. 982, 996), appropriated $25,000 to pay the townsite expenses, with this proviso:
"That the money hereby appropriated shall be applied
only to the expenses incident to the survey, platting, and
appraisement of townsites heretofore set aside and reserved
from allotment: And provided further, That nothing herein
contained shall prevent the survey and platting at their own
expense of townsites by private parties where stations are
located along the lines of railroads, nor the unrestricted
alienation of lands for such purposes, when recommended by
the Commission to the Five Civilized Tribes and approved by
the Secretary of the Interior."
On February 17, 1903, the Commission to the Five Civilized
Tribes made recommendation that this adjacent land be
segregated as an addition to Mill Creek, under the provisions
of the act of July 1, 1902, supra. This recommendation having been approved by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs,
was by him transmitted to the Secretary of the Interior, who,
on March 18, 1903, addressed a letter to the Commission, reciting the segregation of Mill Creek townsite on October 26,
1900, and the recommendation of the Commission approved
by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, and said: "The department does not deem it advisable to make the recommendation
in view of the act of March 3, 1903." On July 23, 1903, the
relator selected as her allotment the land in controversy, upon

BALLINGER v. FROST.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

which were her buildings and improvements. 'This was received by the, Commission, and nine months thereafter, the
time prescribed by statute for contest (act July 1, 1902, supra)
having elapsed, and no contest of her right to the designated
alltment having been made, a certificate of allotment was issued and delivered to her. Thereafter the principal chief of the
Choctaw Nation and the governor of the Chickasaw Nation
jointly executed a patent under the seals of their respective
nations, conveying to her the title of said nations in and to
said forty acres of land. Sections 23 and 24 of the act of
July 1, 1902, supra, read as follows:
"SEC. 23. Allotment certificates issued by the Commission
to the Five Civilized Tribes shall be conclusive evidence of
the right of any allottee to the tract of land described therein;
and the United States-Indian agent at the Union Agency
shall, upon the application of the allottee, place him in possession of his allotment, and shall remove therefrom all persons
objectionable to such allottee, and the acts of the Indian agent
hereunder shall not be controlled by the writ or process of
any court.
"SEC.

24. Exclusive jurisdiction is hereby conferred upon

the Commission to the Five Civilized Tribes to determine,
under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, all matters
relating to the allotment of land."
The Secretary alleged in his answer that after the issue of
the allotment to relator, and on or about March 11, 1905,
his predecessor in office was advised that the land had then
and prior to its selection by petitioner been under urban
occupancy, and on June 19, 1905, he ordered an investigation,
and finding such to be the fact, and that the inhabitants had
expended large sums in building upon and improving their
tracts and were entitled to be protected, he did, on October 23,
1905, by virtue of the powers in him vested, segregate the
lands for townsite purposes and cancel petitioner's allotment
thereof, with leave to select other lands to fill her right to tribal
lands in severalty. The patent that had previously been exe-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

cuted for delivery to her was returned and remained on file
in the office of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs to be canceled.
The Interior Department has general control over the
affairs of the Indians-wards of the Government. In addition, the Secretary of the Interior was by these several
acts specially charged with the duty of supervising the action of the Commission to the Five Civilized Tribes in making
the allotments authorized by those acts. On both of these
grounds he claims authority to have done what he did, and
that his acts in that respect arc not subject to review by the
courts. We have no disposition to minimize the authority
or control of the Secretary of the Interior, and the court
should be reluctant to interfere with his action. But as said
by Mr. Justice Field in Cornelius v. Kessel, 128 U. S. 456,
461:
"The power of supervision and correction is not an unlimited or an arbitrary power. It can be exerted only when the
entry was made upon false testimony, or without authority
of law. It cannot be exercised so as to deprive any person
of land lawfully entered and paid for. By such entry and
payment the purchaser sebures a vested interest in the prop-erty and a right to a patent therefor, and can no more be deprived of it by order of the Commissioner than he can be deprived by such order of any other lawfully acquired property.
Any attempted deprivation in that way of such interest will
be corrected whenever the matter is presented so that the
judiciary can act upon it."
See also Orchard v. Alexander, 157 U. S. 372, 383, in which
it was declared:
"Of course, this power of reviewing and setting aside the
action of the local land officers is, as was decided in Cornelius
v. Kessel, 128 U. S. 456, not arbitrary and unlimited. It
does not prevent judicial inquiry. Johnson v. Towsley, 13
Wall. 72. The party who makes proofs, which are accepted
by the local land officers, and pays his money for the land, has

BALLINGER v. FROST.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

acquired an interest of which he cannot be arbitrarily dispossessed."
Whenever, in pursuance of the legislation of 'Congress,
rights have become vested it becomes the duty of the courts
to see that those rights are not disturbed by any action of an
executive officer, even the Secretary of the Interior, the head
of a department. However laudable may be the motives of
the Secretary, he, as all others, is bound by the provisions of
Congressional legislation. It must be borne in mind that this
allotment provided by Congress contemplated a distribution
among the Choctaw and Chickasaw Indians of the lands that
belonged to them in common. They were the principal beneficiaries, and their titles to the lands they selected should be
protected against the efforts of outsiders to secure them.
White men settling on townsites were not the principal beneficiaries. Congress, it is true, authorized townsites, and the
town of Mill Creek was established in compliance with the
statute. It further provided for an enlargement of any townsite upon ,the recommendation of the Commission to the Five
Civilized Tribes. That recommendation was made in respect
to the town of Mill Creek, but disapproved by the Secretary
of the Interior. Thereafter the-relator selected the land in
controversy, a tract of forty acres, on which were her improvements. Notice was given as required, and the time in which
contest could be made-nine months-elapsed. Thereupon,
as provided by the statute,--the title of the allottee to the land
selected became fixed and absolute, and the chief authorities
of the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations executed to her a
patent, as required, of the land selected. The fact that there
may have been persons on the land is immaterial. They
were given nine months to contest the right of the applicant.
They .failed to make contest, and her rights became fixed.
Thereafter the Secretary of the Interior had nothing but the
ministerial duty of seeing that a patent was duly executed
and delivered.
That the performance of a ministerial duty can be com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

pelled by mandamus has been often adjudged. As said by
Mr. Justice Peckham, in Roberts v. United States, 176 U. S.
221, 229:
"The law relating to mandamus against a public officer is
well settled in the abstract, the only doubt which arises being
whether the facts regarding any particular case bring it within
the law which permits the writ to issue where a mere ministerial duty is imposed upon an executive officer, which duty
he is bound to perform without any further question. If
he refuse under such circumstances, mandamus will lie to
compel him to perform his duty."
See also Noble v. Union River Logging Co., 147 U. S. 165,
in which Mr. Justice Brown cites many cases and draws distinctions between them.
But the authorities come more closely to the facts in this
case. In Barney v. Dolph, 97 U. S. 652, 656, Mr. Chief Justice Waite said:
"The execution and delivery of the patent after the right
to it is complete are the mere ministerial acts of the officer
charged with that duty."
In Simmons v. Wagner, 101 U. S. 260, 261, the same Chief
Justice repeated the proposition in these words:
"Where the right to a patent has once become vested in a
purchaser of public lands it is equivalent, so far as the government is concerned, to a patent actually issued. The execution and delivery of the patent after the right to it has become
complete are the mere ministerial acts of the officers charged
with that duty. Barney v. Dolph, 97 U. S. 652; Stark v.
Starrs, 6 Wall. 402."
In United States v. Schurz, 102 U. S* 378, 403, Mr. Justice
Miller, delivering the opinion of the court, said:
"No further authority to consider the patentee's case
remains in the land-office. No right to consider whether he
ought in equity, or on new information, to have the title or
receive the patent. There remains the duty, simply ministerial, to deliver the patent to the owner,-a duty which,

CENTRAL TRUST CO. v. CENTRAL TRUST CO. 251
216 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

withifh all the definitions, can be enforced by the writ of mrnandamus."
We think the judgment of the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia, affirming the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the )istrict, was right, and it is
Affirmed.

CENTRAL TRUST COMPANY v. CENTRAL TRUST
COMPANY OF ILLINOIS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 86.

Argued January 18, 1910.-Decided February 21, 1910.

The management of the post office business has been placed by Congress in the hands of the Postmaster General and his assistants,
and the Postal Laws and Regulations provide for the-delivery of
mail where two or more persons of the same name receive mail at
the same post office.
While the benefit of one's legal name belongs to every party, individual or corporation, it may at times be necessary, and proper
to look beyond the exact legal name to the name by which a party
is customarily known and addressed in order to properly deliver
mail to the person to whom it is addressed.
The findings of fact by officers in charge of the several departments'
of the Government are conclusive unless palpable error appears.
In this case the First Assistant Postmaster General having made an
order directing delivery of mail addressed to Central Trust Company, Chicago, to the Central Trust Company of Illinois instead
of to a South Dakota corporation having the name Central Trust
Company, held that there was not enough clear right shown by
the latter company to justify the setting aside of the order by the
court.
152 Fed. Rep. 427,'affirmed.

ON June 22, 1906, the Central Trust Company, a corpora-

