OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

216 U. S.

have the effect of rendering the office vacant." And again:
"The legislature acted uL)on a mistaken view of the law and
the result of which was to provide for the election of an officer
to an office not vacant, but which, on the contrary, was in
the possession of a legally elected and qualified incumbent."
It was also decided that Albright's appointment was made
before the'law took effect and necessarily was illegal.
Upon the second appeal of the case the court did not eilarge on the ground of its decision. 79 Pac. Rep. 719. it follows that as Sandoval's right to the office and Albright's want
of right were based upon the construction of the statutes of
the Territory, not upon )ower .of the legislature to pass them,
the motion to dismiss must be granted, and'it is
So ordered.

WM. J. MOXLEY, A CORPORATION, v. HERTZ, UNITED
STATES COLLECTOR.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 398.

Argued December 13,14, 1909.-Decided February 21, 1910.

Where the function of a natural ingredient, such as palm oil, used-in
manufacturing oleomargarine is so slight that it probably would
not be used except for its effect in coloring the product so as to look
like butter, the product is artificially colored and subject to the tax
of ten centsa pound under par. 8 of the act of May 9, 1902, Chap. 784,
32 Stat. 193.

As the record in this case shows that the use of palm oil produced only
a slight effect other than coloration on the product, it falls under
the rule adopted in Cliff v. ,United States, 195 U. S. 159, that the
use of a natural ingredient must be for something more substantial
than coloration in order to relieve the oleomargarine of the tax of
ten cents a pound.

MOXLEY v. HERTZ.
216 U.S.

/

Argument for Moxley & Co.

A statute may not be evaded, nor its purpose-made to yield to what is
non-essential and thus render it a means to aecomplish the deception
it was meant to prevent.

THE facts are stated ii the opinion.

Mr. John Maynard Harlan for Moxley & Co.
By the special finding in this case palm oil is shown to be
one of the unartificially colored legal component parts of oleomargarine referred to in the Treasury Department's Regulations as to artificial coloration of June 2, 1902. This a fair
and reasonable interpretation consistent with the language
and purpose of the statute and should not be lightly departed
from. United States v. 14'12 Gallons, 10 Blatchf' 428. This
interpretation is not overruled by the Cliff case, 195 U. S.
159. The fact distinguishing the Cliff case from the case at'
bar is just this: that the plaintiff in error herein has proved,
and the trial court has found, palm oil to be a food ingredient
of: oleomargarine, while in the Cliff case it was conceded, in
effect, that palm oil was merely ,a color ingredient. In fact
the Cliff case taken in connection with McCray v. United
States, 195 U. S. 27; logically requires all the certified questions to be answered in the negative.
"For the purpose of assessing the statutory tax on the
oleomargarine described in the first question," the rate of
taxation is not "dependent, either upon the ratio which -the
quantity of palm oil used bears to the other ingredients, or
the extent or ratio of other benefits than that of coloration
given by the palm oil."
The fact that the manufacturer intended and used the palm
oil for the coloration of the oleomargarine cannot enter into
the determination of the amount taxable under the statute.
Taxes* are, laid upon things, not upon motives. Merritt v.
Welsh,' 104 U. S. 694; Seeberger v, Farwell, 139 U. S. 608;
Magone v. Luckemeyer, 139 U. S. 612; United States,v. Schoverling, 146 U. S. 76, 81; United States v. Irwin, 78 Fed. Rep. 799.
If there be any doubt, undef the law, whether plaintiff in

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Hertz, Collector.

216 U. S.

error should have I)eiIi'om~pelled to, pay, under protest, a
tax at the rate of toni clnts per pound on the oleomargarine
here in question, Ihis dou)t should be resolved in favor of
the maufacturer.
The oleomargarine law, being a revenue law, should be
construed most strongly against the Government and in favor of the taxpayer. United Stateo'v. Wigglesworth, 2 Story)
369; HartranftA. .Tiegmann, 121 U. S. 609; United States v.
Isham, 17 WaI1. 496; Am. Net & Twine Co. v. Worthington, 141
U. .S: 468; Eidman v. Martinez, 1§4 U. S. 578; Bensinger v.
United States, 192 U. S. 38, 55.
The English rule in stamp duty cases is the same. See
Tomplinsv. Ashby,.6 B. &C. 541, 543; Doe v. Smith, 8 Bing.
147, 152; Gur v. Scudds, 11 Exch. 190, 192; Warrington v.
Furbor, 8 East., 242, 245.
The rule that one who claims the benefit of an exception
must make it clear that he comes'within its scbpe has no application to this case.
The proviso of § 8 of the oleomargarine law, as amended
in M~y, 1902, is really an independent enactment. Interstate
Commerce Commission v. Baird, 194 U. S. 25; United States v.
Whitridge, 197 U. S. 135; United States v. Babbitt, 1 Black, 55;
Savings Bank v. Collector, 3 Wall. 495; Eidman v. Martinez,
184 t. S. 578; Warrington v. Furbor, 8 East, 242.:
The amount of the revenue tax 'paid on oleomargarine bears
no causal relation to the accomplishment of the purpose of
the act, to prevent the sale of oleomargarine as and for butter.
Re Kollock, 165 U. S. 526, cited in McCray v. United States,
195 U. S. 27; Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1.
The Solicitor General for Hertz, Collector:
This 'casc is governed by the case of Cliff v. United States,
195 U. S. 159. . Under that decision the firs.t question now
certified to this court must be answered in the affirmative;
and response to the second and third certified questions will
then become unnecessary.

MOXLEY 2'. HERTZ.
216 U.S.

Argument for Hertz, ('ollector.

The only difference ill the .onstituents of the oleomargarine
involved in the Cliff case and that here considered is the
addition of some cream to the/latter.
The customary foirmulie for making oleomargarine show

that coloring iatter is uniformly a fraction of one per cent.
of the total weight of the oleomargarine to be colored. Vol. 9,
12th Fed. .Census, -Manufactures,' )art 3, 1). 521. The very
slight quantity of palm oil used in this case (a fraction of one
per cent., as in the Cliff case).makes it impossible to regard
the palm oil as anything but a colorant. If in the Cliff case
palm oil had no other substantial operation than to color, the
same is true here.
It is error to suppose that the statute defines either the
only or the ess( ntial ingredients of oleomargarine:. The statutory list was nerely to prevent the escape of any real oleomiargarine compounds from the reach of the law throuoh addition to them of. any substance which, Congress thought
*might probably be added. The. law operates upon compounds not only of those things named in theiact but also of
those things and'extraneous things not named. 4t is not
enough to make any substance a natural colorant of oleomargarine that it is named in the statute as a thing that may
be found in oleomargarine. McCay v.. United States, 195
U. S. 27; Cliff 'v. United States, 195 U. S. 159. ' The McCray
case held this as to artificially colored butter, vhich is' itself
named in the statute as a, possible constituent; and the Cliff
case held it as to palm oil, which is one of tbe "-vegetable oils"
named in the statute.
The true distinction between natural ahd artificial colorants is uncognected with the statutory enumeration and must
be discovered in the real nature of oleomargarine itself as
universally recognized and not altered by statute,, or in the
natural relation of the colorant to the. end (butter. color)
sought to be accomplished. By this test, oleomargarine. is
an article manufactured from animal fats; and, a v"table
oil is a foreign, and so artificial, addition to it just as much

1348

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

as if it were not' named in the statute. When, therefore, the
addition to oleomargarine of a foreign substance like palm
oil imparts to it a butter color, such color is artificial, whether
or not other qualities than color are given by the same foreign addition. The only ingredients which can be considered
natural to oleomargarine are the animal (including bUtter)
fats, and the only natural colorant is butter itself.
The statutory proviso relieving naturally colored oleomargarine from the general tax of 10 cents per pound, is not to
be construed liberally in favor of the manufacturer. A party
who claims the benefit of this proviso ,must make it clear that
his oleomargarine is within its scope. Cliff case, supra, p. 163.
MR.JUSTICE¢ MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

The certificate cannot easily be condensed, therefore we
give it in full. It is as follows:
"In this case, which has been argued and submitted to
this court, questions of law arise concerning which the court
desires the instruction and advice of the Supreme Court of
the United States.
"The plaintiff in error brought suit (at law) in the trial
court to recover the airount paid to the defendant in error,
as collector of internal revenue, under constraint, as .'a tax
of ten cents per pound, assessed by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, for the manufacture. by the plaintiff in error
of 284,998 pounds of oleomargarine under due authority to
engage in such business. Issues were joined and upon written stipulation by the parties were submitted to ihe'court for
trial without a jury. After hearing the testimony, the trial
court made and filed a special finding of'facts upon the 'several issues so submitted, and thereupon judgment was rendered against the plaintiff in error, whereof reversal is sought
,on writ-of error.
"The tax in, controversy, of ten cents per pound purports to
be assessed under the provisions of section 8 of the act of
Congress a plproved May 9, 1902, published as chap. 784, 32

MOXLEY v. HERTZ.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. Stat. L. 193; and the present inquiry involves only the
following of such finding of facts, viz:
"(1) That in June, 1902, after the above-mentioned enactment, 'the Commissioner of Internal Revenue officially pro-.
mulgated and published and issued in regular course by the
United States Treasury Department, the regulation ,as to
"artificial coloration," in language as follows:
'Regulation as to Artificial Coloration.
in
the
production- of oleomargarine the mixtures of
'If
compounds set out in the law of 1886 are used, and these
compounds are all free from artificial coloration and no artificial coloration is produced by the addition of coloring
matter as an independent and seRirate ingredient, a tax of
one-fourth of 1 cent per pound only will be collected, although
the finished product may look like butter of some shade of
yellow. For example, if butter that has been artificially
colored is used as a component part of the finished product
oleomargarine (and that finished product looks like butter
of any shade of yellow) as the.oleomagarine is not free from
artificial coloration, the tax of 10 cents per pound will be
assessed and collected. But if butter is absolutely free from
artificial coloration or cottonseed oil free from artificial coloration, or any other of the mixtures or compounds legally
used in the manufacture of the finished product oleomargarine has naturally a shade of yellow in no way producedI by
artificial coloration, and through the use of one or more of
these unartificially colored legal component parts of oleo-.
margarine the finished product should look like butter of any
shade of yellow, this product will be subject to a tax.of only
one-fourth of 1 eot per pound, as it is-absolutely free from
artificial coloration that has caused it to look like butter of
any shade of yellow.'
"Which said 'Regulation as to Artificial Coloration,' thenceforth continued to be the regulation of the Commissioner's
office when the oleomargarine hereinafter referred to was
made and sold by the plaintiff.'

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

"(2) The rulings.and assessnents in q u estion by the Commissioner of Internal'Revenue were made in 1903.
"(3) The oleomargarine, on account of,.which said assessmcnt was levied by said Commissioner of Internal Revenue
and said reduced amount thereof was required by him to be
paid by said plaintiff, was composed of oleo-oil, lard, milk,
cream, salt, and two vegetable oils- commonly known as
cottonseed oil and palm oil, and of nothing else.. The proportion of palm oil. present in. said oleomargarine was about onehalf of one per cent. (1%) of the total volume of said oleomargarine. Phlm oil is a pure vegetable oil derived from the
fruit of palm trees, which grow in certain parts of Africa, and
has about the consistence of pure'butter. Palm oil consists
almost entirely of palmatine and olein, which arc: the chief
constituents of pure butter. P'lm oil is perfectly wivolesomC,
is readily digested and has long been used as an article of
food in countries where it is produced. Palm oil was successfully employed in oleomargarine prior to May, 1902; and.
is a proper constituent of oleomargarine. The oleomargarine
involved in this suit looked like,.butter of a shade of yellow,
and such resemblance to butter of a shade of yellow was
caused by the presence of the palm oil used in said oleomargarine, and the levy of said assessment by said Commissioner
of Internal Revenue was based upon and because of such resemblance to butter of a shade of yellow resulting from such
use of palm oil in said oleomargarine. Imi addition to coloring the oleomargarine in resemblance to butter, the palm oil
probably. gives to the oleomargarine slightly better grain of
texture, auising it to act more like butter in the fryiImg [an,
antl it also caused said oleomargarine to have a better physio.
logical effect upon the persons who ate it; but such function
of the palm oil, other than as cbloring matter, was slight, and
but for the coloring imparted to the oleomargarine, would
not probably have been:actually used in its manufacture.
"Upon the foregoing facts-distinguishing the case from
that presented in Cliff v. United States, 195 U. S. 159, as we

MOXLEY v. HERTZ.
216,U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

understand the fa'cts there -reported-the questions of law
concerning which this court desires the instruction and advice of the Supreme Court are these:
"First. With the oleomargarine caused 'to look like butter,' by the use of natural palm oil as .one of th ingredients'a pure vegetable oil,' named in the statute as an.ingredient
of oleomargarine-which not only gives the coloration sought
for the finished product, but otherwise (in some degree) improves the texture, quality and healthfulness of the oleomargarine. Can such use be.denominated 'artificial coloration,'
within the terms and meaning of the statute referred to, fixing -the rate of taxation?
"Second. For the purpose of-assessing the statutory tax
on )the oleomargarine described -in the first question, Is the
rate of 'taxation dependeht, either (1) upon the, ratio which
the quantity of palm oil used bears to the other ingredients,
or (2) the extent or ratio of other benefits than that of coloration given by the palm oil?
"Third. Can the fact that the manufacturer intended and
used the palm oil for coloration. of the- oleomargarine enter
into the determination of the amouit taxable under the statute."
It, as it ill be observed, is implied in the certificate and,
it is also contended at bar, that the facts of this case distinguish it from Cliff v. United Staes, 195 U. S.159. What the
decision was in that case, therefore, becomes the first subject of inquiry. And an element of that inquiry is the act of
Congress under which the tax in 4controversy was imposed,
,of which §§ 2 and 8 are only necessary to quote'(24 Stat. 209,
chap. 840, Aug. 2, 1886):
"SEc. 2. That. for the purposes of this act certain m anufactured substances, certain extracts, and certain mixtures
and compounds, including such mixtures and compounds
with butter, shall be known and'designated as 'oleomargarine,'
namely: All substances heretofore known as oleomargarine,
oleo, oleomargarine-oil, butterine, lardine, suine and neu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

tral; all mixtures and compounds of oleomargarine, oleo,
oleomargarine-oil, butterine, lardine,'suine and neutral; all
lard extracts and tallow extracts; and all mixtures and confipounds of tallow, beef-fat, suet, lard, lard-oil, vegetable-oil,
annotto, and other coloring matter, intestinal fat, and offal

fat made in imitation or semblance of butter, or, when so
made, calculated or intended to be sold as butter or for butter."
"Si c. 8. That upon oleomargarine which shall be manufact~ured and sold, or ri'movcd for consumption or use, there

shall be assessed and collected a ta'x of 2 cents per l)ound, to
he 'paid by the manufacturer thereof; and any fractional part
of a pound irn a package shall he taxed as a pound: pro'ided,
when oleomargarine is free from arthiicialcoloration that causes
it to look like butter of any shade of yellow, sid tax shall be onefoutrth of one cent per pound" [itali(.s ours].
The defendant in that case was charged With-haying knowingly purchased arid received for sale oleomargarine which
had not been prolerly stamped according to law. It was
shown that out of 1(60 ounces of -which the compound was
composed, only one and one-half ounces were palm oil, and
the following ruilifig of the Commissioner was introducedin
evidence:
"This office rules that where so minute and infinitesimal a
quantity of a vegetable oil is used in the manufacture of oleomargarine as is proposed to be used of palm oil, and through
its use the finished product looks like butter of any sbade of
yellow, it cannot be considered that.the oil is used vith the
purpose or intention of being a bona ide coistituent phrt or
element of the product, but is used solely for the purpose of
producing or imparting a yellow color to the oleomargarine,
and,. therefore, that the oleomargarine so colored is'not free
from artificial coloration and becomes subject to the tax of
ten cents per pound."
. The contention was that Congress having, -in § 2, defihed
oleomargarine to consist of certain substances the color,

MOXLEY v. HERTZ.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

which resulted from the use of such substances, or any of
them, was a natural, not an artificial, coloration. The contention, and the argument. of counsel to support it, was given
at length so that its full extent and strength should-be shbwn.
Among other things this was said: "However minute may be
the quantity of palm oil used, itis none the less a vegetable
oil, a statutory, or so to speak, a natural ingredient of oleomargarine, and displaces in the finished product an equal
volume of some other statutory ingredient of oleomargarine,
as, for instance, cottonseed oil." And it was argued that the
statute conferred "no power upon the Commissioner to prescribe the formula for the manufacture of oleomargarine, or
the proportion of the different ingredients, or to exclude any
ingredient except upon the ground of its beifig deleterious to
health."' The argument could not be misundersto6d Or
evaded. It asserted' the purity of the oleomargarine under
the law and that its color came from its purity, not from any
illegal addition to it. The contention, therefore, was direct
and unqualified by any consideration of the relative quantity
of the ingredients. Its force was recognized but it was neverthele~s rejected, and in reply it was pointed out that the statute was not enacted to permit the manufacture of oleomargarine but to prevent its sale "as and for butter." And it was
decided' "that' when any substance, although named as a 'po.sible ingredient of oleomargarine, substantially serves only
the function of coloring the mass and so as to cause the product to 'look like butter of any shade of yellow,' it is an' artificial coloration." It was stated that palm oil is a vegetable
oil, and one of the substances authorized to be used by § 2 in
the composition of oleomargarine. But this, it. was added,
did not exempt the product from the higher tax if the palm oil
or any other "statutory ingredient," to use the phrase of counsel,' was used only for Coloring. The statute was carefully
analyzed and the words, "and other coloring matter' in § 2
was declared to have an obvious purpose. ".It was to prevent," it was said, "excluding from the operation of the statVOL. ccxvw-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

ute anything in its nature oleomargarine (that is to exempt
from the higher tax anything in its nature oleomargarine) by
the addition of a substance not in reality an ingredient, but
serving substantially only the purpose of coloring the-product
to cause it to look like butter."' And it was further said,
"the fact that one of the ingredients of this compound is
palm oil does not show that such oil does anything else than
color tile product composed of other ingredients,' and if it does
substantially only this it is rightfully styled an artificial coloration." This language brings us to the )oint cf distinction
between that case and the case at bar. It is put beyond controversy that oleomargarine may be subject to the higher tax
though its color result fromh a "statutory ingredient." To
relieve frolm .such consequence the ingredient must be there
in substantial quantity, in quantity substantial enough to
(ontribute to the i)roduct something nore than color. And
this, it is insisted, the paln oil does inthe case at bar and the
case is, therefor, it is further insisted, distinguished from the
Cliff case. The contention is that the defendant in the Cliff
ca.e "st<6od upon the nar'ow proposition, that palm oil being
a vegetable oil and, therefore, being a statutory ingredient of
oleomargarine, it made no)difference whether the amount of.

it used was small or large, or whetliei the s)le purpose of its
use was to irnpart the desired color; coloration due to its use
was not, within the meaning of the statute 'artificial coloration.' "
It is further urged that "Cliff made no effort whatever to
show what, if ally, were the effects of palm oil U)On the oleomargarine other than giving color to it," but admitted for
the purpose of the case "that the sole and only functiofn, of
the palm oil was to make the oleomargarine 'look like butter
of a shade of yellow.'
He did not show, as he might have shown, it is further
urged, "'what are found as facts in this case, namely: that
palm oil in its nature is suitable for food; that, for many

years prior to 1902, it had )ten.used for food and that, when

MOXLEY- v. HERTZ.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

so used, it was found healthful and digestible; and that palni
oil had been successfully used in oleomargarine prior to May 9,
1902, the date of the passage of the amendment which for the
first time made the tax upon oleomargarine that is free from
artificial coloration smaller than the tax upon oleomargarine
that is not free from artificial coloration. Prior to May 9,
1902, all oleomargarine was taxed under the original oleomargarine law passed in 1886 at the rate of two cents per
pound, regardless of whether it was free or not free from artificial coloration."
Are these contentions sustained by the facts certified? Do
they show that the palm oil has substantially any other purpose than to color the product? It is certified that palm oil
is a purely vegetable oil, "is perfectly wholesome, is readily
digested, and has long been used as an article of food in countries where it is produced." These are useful qualities undoubtedly, and the extent of their contribution by the presence of one-half of one per cent of palm oil is attempted to be
estimated. It is the ingredient, the certificate says, that gives
to the oleomargarine a "shade of yellow" and makes it resemble butter, that is, enables it to seem what it is not, and
so far, at least, to defeat the purpose, of the law against color-'
ation. And the certificate further recites that, "in addition
to coloring the oleomargarine in resemblance to butter, the
palm oil probably gives to the oleomargarine slightly better
grain of texture, causing it to act more like butter in the frying pan, and it also caused said oleomargarine to have a better physiological effect upon the persons who ate it; but such
function of the palm oil-, other than as coloring matter, was
slight, and but for the coloring imparted to the oleomargarine,
would not probably have been used in its manufacture."
We do not think •these facts take the case out of the ruling
in the Cliff case. There is no more substantial contribution
of character to the compound in this case than in that. The
amount of palm oil used in that case was something greater
than in this and the purpose of its use was the same. It, of

OC'1OBEI TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

,course; added whatever qualities it possessed, and could exist
in a fraction of one per cent of the product of -which it made a
part. This did not nced" explicit statement and it gains
nothing now by explicit statement. 'hat
efflec.t isclaimed
for it? It gives, it is said, a slightly better grain of texture, a
better physiological effect upon those who eat it. But those
effects are "slight, "it is certifie(l. What is meant by. slight"?
It is the word'of a rather indeterminatem leaning. It usually
implies unimportance or insignificance, 'and is practically
-given-that meaning in, the certificate: , The palm oil, it is certified, contributes so little to the value or quality of 'the oleomargarine that but for its coloring power it would notIbe used.
It may be, as counsel sa'ys, that the motive of its use cannot
make it illegal and that one cannot become'an offender against
the law-by doing..Nhati it permits. But the question here is
,not what the law permits..' That was decided inthe Cliff case.
The question here is whether we shall exaggerate a slight use
of a "statutory ingreffient" into a substantial use pf it,.and
by .doing so bring its use within the permission of the statute,
and relieve the product of 'which it is'a " slight"- part from a
tax of ten cents.
W6 have so far considered this case 'n the authority of the
Cliff case, deeming it unne:cssary to repeat the reasoning of
thle latter, as though the question was res integra. It ffiay be
well; however, to develop the argument of counsel soinewhat
'further. It is presented in a summary way into the following
syllogism:
"First prerhise: Color due to the use of an authorized food
ingredient, not artificially colored, is not artificial-colorization. (McCray case.)'
premise:Palm oil, being a vegetable oil, suitable
for food, and its nature such- as to make oleomargarine suitable'for food, and being itself not artificially colbred, is an..
Auth6rized food inigredient. (Cliff case.)
"Conclusion: Therefore color due to the use of palm oil is
,not artificial coloration."
-"Secod

MOXLEY v. HERTZ.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The premises and conclusion are, assumed by ignoring, not
by following, the cases cited to support them. The 'error
arises by making the term "authorized food ingredient" unqualified and by disregarding what the Cliff case makes essential. The quality of suitableness for food of an ingredient is
made determinative, and Niholly determinative, disregarding
its quantity, its relation and proportion to other ingredients,
and this, counsel indeed contends for and' is the proposition
presented in the second question certified. But the contention contravenes the rule in the Cliff case, where the distinction was made between the mere addition of an authorized
food ingredient and its service in the compound for something
more substantial than coloration. We now repeat it. Any
other rule would give too easy a way to evade the statute
and make its purpose yield, not to what is essential- to the
manufacture of oleomargarine, but what is, nonessential, and
render a law which was intended to prevent deception an easy
ieans to accomplish it.
We are not called upon to consider whether the first premise of counsel's syllogism is sustained by McCray v. United.
States, 195 U. S. 27, but we are concerned to say, to meet a
contention of counsel, that it will not be put into antagonism.
with the Cl~fJ case by the meaning we have given the latter.
On the contrary, the cases support each other. In both this
court declined to follow arguments based upon the mere letter of the statute in destruction of its manifest intention.
The contention in the McCray case was that butter, whether
artificially colored or not, was an authorized ingredient *of
oleomargarine, and when added- to oleomargarine made it free
from artificial coloration. This was pronounced an "obvious
non sequitur." The product, it was said, would be "oleomargarine," but it would not be "oleomargarine free from artificial coloration within the intendment of the proviso" of § 2.
It follows from these views that the first question certified
must be answered in the affirmative; the second and third questions do not call for specific answers on this record.,

