NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. v. NORTH DAKOTA. 579
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. STATE
OF NORTH DAKOTA EX REL. McCUE, ATTORNEY
GENERAL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
NORTH DAKOTA.

No. 553.

Argued February 24, 25, 1910.-Decided March 14, 1910.

Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Company, 212 U. S. 19, followed to effect

that where the state court has found the rate fixed by a state commission on a single commodity to be not confiscatory and has
refused an injunction, the decree will be affirmed without prejudice
to the right of the carrier to reopen the case if, after adequate trial
of the rate, it can prove that it is actually confiscatory and amounts
to a deprivation of property without due process of law.
17 Nor. Dak. 223, affirmed without prejudice.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles IV. Bunn for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Andrew W. Miller, Attorney General of the State of
North Dakota and Mr. Guy C. H. Corliss, with whom Mr. T.
F. McCue was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a proceeding by the Attorney General of North Dakota, charging the plaintiff in error with continuous violation of
a law fixing rates for the carriage of coal within the State, and
asking for an injunction. See Nor. Dak. Laws of 1907, c. 51.
The railroad answered that the act was void under Art. I, ยง 8,
of the Constitution, the commerce clause; and also under the
Fourteenth Amendment, because the maximum rates fixed
by it were inadequate and confiscatory. Evidence was taken

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

and reported to the Supreme Court, and that court decided
that the injunction should issue as prayed. 17 Nor. Dak: '223.
The grounds of its decision were that the act referred only to
transportation wholly within the State and therefore was not
bad under At. I, ยง8, thus removing that questioi; and that the
evidence did not prove that the rates would (ntail a loss on
the carriage of coal, so that it was not necessary to decide
whether in that event it would be unconstitutional, if the rail-road made a fair profit on its whole business within the State.
The court did however intimate its opinion that, if the railroad was able to make a fair profit upon its whole business
within the State it might be required to carry a particular
commodity at cost or possibly below, and it expressed its
opinion so strongly that the counsel for the )laintiff in error
treats that doctrine as the ground of decision and the state,ment as to the insufficiency of the evidence as made only in
the light of it and upon rather technical grounds. He argue,,,
that the evidence was undisputed, that the facts testified to
and the fair inferences from them must be taken as proved,
and that on those facts and inferences the constitutional question is raised. The evidehce consisted of tables of rates in
other States, computation as to the cost of transportation, and
expert opinions, all of which were thought to converge to the

conclusion that the statutory rates were unreasonable and less
than the cost of carriage. But layin g technical objections on
one side and'taking the facts as admitted, the argument for
the State showed that there are too many elemen ts of uncertainty in the calculation fQr us to say, if we could, as-to which
..we intimate no opinion, that the conclusion is proved, when
theSupreme Court of the State says that it is not.
.ihe carriage of coal' is a very. small part of the railroad's
.business. The estimate of the cost is admitted to be uncertain, and to depend in part upon arbitrary, postulates. Ithas
to be increased considei'ably above the average cost for freight
in order to make out the plaintiff in error's point. We are far
from saying that the. argument for doing so does not seem to

NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. v. NORTH DAKOTA. 581
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

us to have considerable probability on its side. We do not say
that experiment may not establish a case in the future that
would require a decision upon the question of constitutional
law. But we can express no opinion upon it now. The great
difficulty in the attempt to measure the reasonableness of
charges by reference to the cost of transporting the particular
class of freight concerned is well known and often has been remarked. It seems to us that the nearest approach to justice
that can be made at this time is to follow the precedent of
Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19, as nearly as may
be, and affirm the decree, but without prejudice to the right
of the railroad company- to reopen the case by appropriate
proceedings if, after adequate trial, it thinks it can prove
more clearly than at present the confiscatory character of the
rates for coal.
Decree afirmed without prejudice.
Similar decrees will be entered in Nos. 554 1 and 555. 2
1 Great Northern Railway Company v. State of North Dakota ex rel.
McCue, Attorney General. Argued February 24, 25, 1910.

Mr. Charles

W. Bunn for plaintiff in error. Mr. Andrew W. Miller, Attorney
General of the State of North Dakota, and Mr. Guy C. H. Corliss,
with whom Mr. T. F. McCue was on the brief, for defendant in error.
2 Minneapolis, St. Paul & Sault Ste Marie Railway Company v.
State of North Dakota ex rel. McCue, Attorney General.

Argued

March 24, 25, 1910. Mr. Charles W. Bunn for plaintiff in error. Mr.

Andrew W. Miller, Attorney General of the State of North Dakota,
and Mr. Guy C. H. Corliss, with whom Mr. T. F. McCue was on the
brief, for defendait in error.

