OCTOBER TERM, 1909,
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

216 U. S.

OLMSTED v. OLMSTED.
ERROR TO THE SUI'REME COURT OF THE STATE O'

No. 102.

NPW YORK.

Argued January 25, 1910.-Decided February.21, 1910.

The law of a State in which land issituated controls and governs its
descent, alienation and transfer, and neither a decree of a court, or
a statute, of another State can have any efficacy as to title of..real
estate beyond the jurisdiction of that State.
The.full faith and credit clause of the Federal Constitution does not
require the courts of a State to give effect to a statute legitinatizing children born before wedlock after marriage of their parents so
as to affect interests which, under the law of the State where the
property is located, had been so vested that it cannot lieaffected by
subsequent legislation; and so held that the courts of New' York
are notrequired to give effect to a statute of Michigan so as to vest
in children of the testator legitimatized by nuch statute property,
the title to which had already vested in his other legitimate children.
190 N. Y. 458, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Mortimer W.'Byers for.plaintiffs in error:

The plaintiffs in error becabe "lawful issue" of Benjamin
F. Olmsted in Michigan, as the divorce recovered by him
from his first wife was and is valid in all respects in that
State. 2 How'ell's Gen. Stat; Michigan, in force in 1$82,
p. 1622,. §§.6228-6231.
The proceedings having been in accordance with the
statutes of Michigan, and no attempt having been made to
open the judgment or appeal therefpom, the validity of the,
judgment in Michigan is not open to question. Haddock v.
Haddock, 201 U. S. 562, 572.
The plaintiffs in error became legitimate children of Benjamin F. Olmsted by reason of that marriage, according to a

OLMSTED v. OLMSTED.
216 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

public act of Michigan. 2 Howell's Gen. Stat., in force in
1882, p. 1505, § 5775a.
Therefore, the said children became legitimate through the
marriage of their parents, and their status as legitimate
children, having once been created, continues to this day in
Michigan.
Under the Federal Constitution and Revised Statutes full
faith and credit must be given in New York to the Michigan
decree and statute.
The standing of children is an independent consideration
not to be confused with that of their parents. As stated in the
opinion below, a marriage valid where rendered confers a right
upon the offspring of that alliance, which, in' civilized soiety,
is not to be afterward limited and denatured in connection
with a similar treatment accorded to their parents' status
in obedience to the protests of the community or an injured
individual.
The conflict in the law of divorce between the different
States and Territories has gone to the extreme limit'and the
status of the parents as husband and wife in one State and
as divorced in another should not be visited upon the innocent
offspring of the succeeding marriages. See Matter of Hall,
61 App. Div. (N. Y.) 266; Inhabitants,&c. v. Lexington, 18
Massachusetts, 506; and see New York Law Journal, Jan. 22,
1908; Adams v. Adams, 154 Massachusetts, 290, as to the
proposition that legitimacy, once created, will be everywhere
recognized; Miller v. Miller, 91 N. Y. 315; Van Vorhees v.
Brintnall, 86 N. Y. 18; Bates v. Virolet, 33 App. Div. (N. Y.)
436; Ross v. Ross, 129 Massachusetts, 243; Ir'ing v. Ford,
183 Massachusetts, 448; Grey v. Stamford, 61 Law J. Rep.,
New Series, Part I, p. 622; In re Goodman's Trusts, 1881,
Law Rep. 17 Chan. Div. 266; and see to the contrary Smith
v. Dorr, 34 Pa. St. 126; Shaw v. Gould, 3 H. L. 55.
As to the application of the full faith and credit clause,
see M'Elmoyle v. Cohen, 13 Pet. 312; Fauntleroy v. Lum,
210 U. S. 230.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

216 U.S.

The judgment bolow having been against the constitutional
rights of the plaintiffs in error, may be reviewed. All persons
answering the description of "lawful issue" at the death of
the second life tenant, then had a vested interest which could
be measured as between theni, and see 2 Jarman on Wills (6th
Am. ed.), 168, in Matter of Baer,- 147 N. Y. 348; Gilliam v.
Guaranty Trust Co., 186 N. Y. 127; Bisson v. W. S. R. R. .Co.,
143 N. Y. 125. Such children as came into being before the
period of distribution were comprehended by the terms of the
devise.
Mr. Cha les H. Luscomb- and Mr. Read G. )ilworth for
defendants in error:
The Circuit Court of Wayne County, Michigan, did not
have juisdiction of the sdbject-matter, and did not obtain
jurisdiction of the defendant in the suit for divorce by Benjamin Olmsted against Mary Jane Olmsted. The Michigan
decree of divorce is therefore void, ad the State of New
York is not bound to recognize its validity. Olmsted v. Olinsted, 190 N. Y. 458; Matter of Kimball, 155 N. Y.'68; Winston
v. Winston, 165 N. Y. 555; Atherton v. Atherton, 155 N. Y.
129, 181 U. S. 155; Haddock v. Haddock,. 201 U. S. 562.
No Federal question is involved. The sole (jucstion is the
determination of the lawful issue of Benjamin Olmsted,
designated as such in a devise of an interest in real estate,
located in New York, under the will of Silas Olmsted, 'Who
died in the State of New York, a resident thereof, and which
was probated in New York, and should be controlled and
governed by the laws of that State and not those of Michigan.
Each State has the exclusive right to determine the disposition
and title to real estate located, within its borders. The
statutes and decrees of Michigan can have no oxtraterritorial
force so far as they might-affect the title to or disposition of
real estate. located beyond its borders. Van Clief v. Burns,
133 N. Y. 540; Storyj Conflict of Laws, 359-390; 2 Kent's
Commentarie ,' 118, 149; Robertson v. Pickrel, 109 U. S. 608.

OLMSTE'D v. OLMSTED.
216 U. S.

Argument for Defendants in Error.

To permit the Michigan statute to control in determining
who are the lawful issue of Benjamin Ohnsted, so as to divest
interests in real estate located in New York, which -have
already become vested in favor of residents of New York,
would be a recognition of the right of the legislature of Michigan to legislate with respect to the disposition of real estate
lochted in New York, and would lead to much confusion, and
tend to upset land titles. No State would be secure in protecting the'rights of its citizens to real property located within
its own borders, against the invasion of the legislatures of
other States. See Chap. 531; Laws of N. Y. 1895; Chap. 272,
Laws 1896.
Under the law of New York, regardless of the effect, if any,
the subsequent marriage of the parents may have had as to
the.legitimacy of the plaintiffs in error, the interests already
vested in the issue of the New York marriage, under-the will
of Silas Olmsted, are not divested, ahd the claim of the plaintiffs in error to participate- in a share of such estate must fail.
If the Michigan statute enacted in 1881, in effect, divests
and deprives the issue of the marriage of Benjamin Olmsted
and Mary Jane Olmsted, of an interest in real estate vested
in them in 1874, it is confiscation, and deprives them of.
property without due process of law and violates the United
States Constitution, as wel'as the constitution of both States.
Matter of Baringer, 29 Misc. (N. Y.) 462; Westervelt v. Gregg,
12 N. Y. 202, 209; Ryder v. Hulse, 24 N. Y. 372 .373; Story on
Constitution, 1399, citing Fletcher v.'Peck, 6 Granch, 67-134;
Marshall v. King, 24 Mississippi, 85; McGaughey ...Heney,
15 B. Mon. 383; Miller v. Miller, 3 Michigan, 393, 401.
The suggestion that the "Humanity of our law should prote6t the innocent from the wrongs, of othe'rs," arid should
induce the court to grant to these-children of theMichigan
,marriage the status of legitimacy, if it has any founda:ion
in law at all, Should not be extended so as to diyest interests,
in real estate which have already become vested, and deprive
the -owner of such vested interests.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUsTIcE DAY

216 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is brought here because of alleged violation in
the judgment of the Supreme Court of New York of the full
faith and credit clause of the Federal Constitution. The
judgment was entered in the Supreme Court of New York
by an order of the Court of Appeals of the same State. 190
N. Y. 458.
The facts, in substance, are: Silas Olmsted, a resident of
the State of New York, died in that State in 1874, devising
by his will, duly probated, a one-half interest in certain real
estate in New York to his son, Benjamin F. Olmsted, with
the remainder over to the lawful issue of said Benjamin. In
1850 Benjamin F. Olmsted, while a resident of the State of
New York, married Mary Jane Olmsted of the State of New
York, and lived with her in that State until January, 1870.
Benjamin F. Olmsted had children by that marriage, who are
defendants in error in this case. On February 28, 1874,
without procuring a divorce from his first wife, Benjamin F.
Olmsted went through a marriage ceremony in New Jersey
with Sarah Louise Welchman. Two children, John H. and
William H. Olnsted, who are the plaintiffs in error in this
case, were born, in the State of New Jersey, of this attempted
marriage. Thereafter, in 1880, Benjamin F. Olmsted and
Sarah Louise Welchman, with their two children, went to
live in the State of Michigan. In 1882, Benjamin F. Olmsted
secured a divorce from his first wife, Mary Jane Olmsted, in
accordance' with the laws of Michigan, in the Circuit Court
of Wayne County, Michigan. Service was made of process by
publication in a Detroit newspaper, and no personal service
was -made on Mary Jane Olmsted, nor did she appear in the
action, judgment being granted by default. On August 22,
1882, Benjamin F. Olmsted and Sarah Louise Welchman
were married in the State of Michigan. By the provision of a
statute enacted in that State in 1881 children born out of
wedlock became legitimate upon the subsequent marriage of

OLMSTED v. OLMSTED.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

'their parents. In January, 1883, in an action in the Supreme
Court of New York, a decree of separation and for alimony
was granted to Mary Jane Olmsted from her husband, Benjamin F. Olmsted. Benjamin F. Olmsted did not appear in that
action, and the record contains no evidence of service of summons upon him. He was represented by counsel on a iznotion to sequestrate his property, and upon appeal from an
order thereon. The judgment was affirmed. Sarah Louise
Welchman died January 30, 1900; Mary Jane Olmsted
died January 22, 1902, and Benjaiulin F. Olmsted July 16,
1905.
The action was for partition of the New York real estate'
devised under the will of Silas Olmsted. The plaintiffs in
error, John H. and William H. Olmsted, children of the
marriage with Sarah Louise Welchman, cluim the right to
participate equally with the children'of Benjamin F. Olmsted
and Mary Jane Olmsted, as lawful issue of Benjamin F. Olmsted, in the real estate located in the State of New York, and
.devised under the will of Silas Olmsted. The Supreme Court
of New York, by its judgment, denied the right of the plaintiffs in error to thus participate.
The opinion delivered in the New York Court of Appeals
shows that its decision was rested, in part, upon the invalidity
of the Michigan marriage, because the courts of Michigan had
never obtained jurisdiction over Mary.Jane Ohnsted, the first
wife of Benjamin F. Olmsted. For that view the learned
court, in denying that it was bound to give full faith and
credit to such a decree and to the Michigan statute of 1881,
cited In the Matter of Kimball, 155 N. Y. 68; lI'inston v.
Winston, 165 N. Y. 555; Haddock v. Haddock, 201 UT.S. 562;
Atherton v. Atherton,, 1.55 N. Y. 129, 181 U. S. 155.
It also puts its decision on the ground that the Michigan
statute of 1881, legitimating the children born previo.us to
marriage, could not have the effect of admitting them to
participate in the' division of the real estate in the State of
New York, as it was passed long after the death of Silas

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

Olmsted, and the probate of his will, under which his legitimate
grandchildren had vested estates as remainderme'n, subject
to the life use in the father.- And fdrther, said the Court of
Appeals of New York, in speaking of the contention that the
Michigan act should be given full faith and credit in the
State of New York:
."Should we sanction the doctrine contended for, then the "
legislature in .any State could, in effect, nullify our own
statutes and deprive our own citizens of property, which
under our laws they had become lawfully vested with and
entitled to receive. Not only this, but the statute of Michigan,
passed in 1881, could change the provisions of a will executed
here and probated in 1874, bringin- in persons as remaindermen who, under the provisiohs of the will, were not remaindermen, nor entitled to Share in the estate. We think this should
not be permitted."
By the laws of New York, chap. 531, 1895, it is provided:
"SEc.J. All illegitimate children whose parent have
heretofore intermarried, 'or' shall hereafter intermari'y, shail
thereby become legitimatiz-d and shall be considered legitimhate for all purposes. -Such.children 'shall enjoy all the rights
and privileges of legitimate children, provided, however, that
vested interests-or estates shall not be divested or affected by
this act.
'By eotapter"272 of the- laws of New York of 1896, vol. I,
it iAprovided, § 18:
"An illegitimate child 'vhose parents have heretofdre intermarried, or shall'hereafter intermarry, shall thereby become
legitimatized and shall be considered legitimate for all purposes, enfitled to all "the rights and plivileges of a legitimate
child; but an estate or an interest vested before the. marriage
of the parents of such child, shall not be divested or affected
by reason of such child being legitimatized.'
The question, therefbr6; is as to the title to real estate in the
State of New York. Does-the-full faith and credit clause of the
Federal Constitution require that effect be given to the

OLMSTED v. OLMSTED.
.216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

'Michigan act of 1881, under the circumstances which we have
detailed?
In Clarke v. Clarke, 178 U. S. 186, 190, the question was
a.s to the effect to be given to a judgment rendered in the
Supreme Court of South Carolina in the courts of the State
of Connecticut respecting real estate situated-in the latter
State. The South Carolina court held that a certain will
worked an equitable conversion into personalty at the time
of the death of the testatrix of all her real estate, wherever
situated, and that the executor of the will was authorized to
administer the same as personalty, and to sell and convey
the same for the lpurpose of executing the will. The Supreme
Court of Connecticut refused to follow the judgment of the
Supreme Cou't of South Carolina, ahd the Pase was brought
here under the full faith and credit clause. This court, in
disposing of the question, said:
"It is a doctrine firmily estal,ished that the law of a State
in which land is situiate(d controls and governs its transnission
by will or its pnssdge in case of intestacy. This faililiar rule
has been frec(imntly d(eclar((l by this (ourt, a r(cent statenii(iit ther(of (eing .contailled in the opinion d(elivered in
De Vaughn v. Hutchinson, 165 U. S. 566, where the court said.
(p. 570):

" 'It is a principle firmly established that to the law of the
State in which the land is situated we must look for the rules
which govern its descent, alienation and transfer, and for the
effect and construction of wills and other conveyances.
United States v. Crosby, 7; Cranch, 115; Clark v. Graham, 6
Wheat. 577; McGoon v. Scales, 9 Wall. 23; Brine v. nsurance
Co., 96 U. S. 627.'"
In speaking of the contention of the plaintiffs in error, thaf
the South Carolina judgment must be giveli full force and
effect, the court, further said:

"The proposition relied on, therefore, is this, although the.
court of last, resort of Connecticut (declaring the law of that
State) has held that the real estate in question had not become,

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

personal property by virtue of the will of Mrs. Clarke, nevertheless it should have decided to the contrary, because a court
of South Carolina had so decreed. This, however, is but to
argue that the law declared by the South Carolina court should
control the passage by will of land in Connecticut, and,
therefore, is 'equivalent to denying the correctness of the
elementary proposition that the law of Connecticut, where
the real estate is situated, governed in such a case."
In the case of Fall v. Eastin, decided at this term, 215
U. S. 1, the same principle was recognized. In that case it was
held that a deed made by a master, by order of the court, in
the State of Washington, in execution of a decree where the
court had jurisdiction of the parties, did not have any efficacy
as to the title to real estate beyond the jurisdiction of the
court. It is uniecessary to review the previous cases from this
court; a number of them are examined in the opinion ir Fall
v. Eastin.
After stating the principle that the disposition of real estate,
whether by deed, descent, or otherwise, must be governed by
the laws of the State where the real estate is situated, this
court said (215 U. S. 12):
"The doctrine is entirely consistent with the provision of
the Constitution of the United States, which requires a judgment in any State to be given full faith and credit in the
courts of every other State. This provision does not extend
the jurisdiction of the courts of one State to property situated
in another, but only makes the judgment rendered conclusive
on the merits of the claim or subject-matter of the suit. 'It
does not carry with it into another State the efficacy of a
judgment upon property or persons, to be enforced by execution. To give it'the force of a judgment in another State it
must become a judgment there; and can onjy be executed in
the latter as its laws permit.' M'Elmoyle v. Cohen, 13 Pet.
312."

The principle established by these cases is applicable to the
case at bar. The full faith and credit clause of the Constitu-

OLMSTED v. OLMSTED.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court..

tion applies with no more effect to the legislative acts of a

foreign State than it does to the judgments of the courts- of
such State. The controversy herein concerns an interest in
real estate located in the State of New York. Under a will
probated in the State of New York, -where the land was
situated, it was devised to the lawful issue of Benjamin F.
error is that by
Olmsted. The contention of the plaintiffs i%1
the act of 1881 of the State of Michigan, they had become
legitimate, and are accordingly entitled to participate in the
division of the estate. To this contention the highest court
of the State of New York has answered that neither the law
of the State of Michigan nor the act of the State of New York
legitimating children, under such circumstances, can have
the effect and force' of disturbing interests already vested
when the acts were passed.
We think there is nothing in the due faith and credit clause
which requires the courts of New York to give the effect contended for to the Michigan statute. The legislature of Michigan had no power to pass an act which would affect the transmission of title to lands located in the State of New York.
No more had it power to legislate concerning the titles to lands
in New York than the courts of Michigan, by their judgments,
would have authority to adjudicate such rights.
We are not concerned with the correctness of the decision
of the Court of Appeals of New York interpreting its statutes

and, applying the law of its jurisdiction to the construction
of the will of Silas Olmsted. We hold that there is nothing
,in the Federal Constitution requiring the courts of the State
Of New,York to give force and effect to the statute of the
State of Michigan so as to control the devolution of title to
lands in New York.
1udg4nent affirmed.

