OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus.

216 U. S.

204 U. S. 364, 394. In Horn Silver Mining Co. v. New York,
143 U. S. 305, the corporation showed by its answer that it had
empl)yed part of its capital in manufacturing in New York. It:
had got into the State and was at work there, yet it was held
liable to pay a percentage of its entire capital, although the
greater part was outside the State.-But furthermore it is a
short answer to this l)art of the argument that in the present
case, according to decisions relied upon by the majority, the
State could not have prevented the entry of the corporation,
b(eause it entere(l for th(
l)purpose of conmieree with other
Stat(s.
Ttivc CIEIiF JUSTICE and MR..JuSTwE M(CKENNA concur in

this dissent.
The late Mu. .J;'r(
'B iPECKHAM took part in the eonsideration of the case and agr,.ed with the inority.

PULLMAN COMPANY v. STATE OF KANSAS EX REL.
COLEMAN, ATTORNEY GENERAL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.

No". 5.

Argued March 17, 18, 1909.-Decided January 31, 1910.

The judgment of the court below reversed on the authority of Western

Union Telegraph Company v. Kansas, ante, p. 1, and also held that:
A corporation organized in one State and doing an interstate business
is not bound to obtain the permission of another State to transact
interstate business within its limits, but can go into the latter, for

the purposes of that business, without liability to taxation there
with respect to such business, althougl subject to reasonable local
regulations for the safety, comfort and convenience of the people
which do not, in a real, substantial qense, burden or regulate- its
interstate business nor subject its property interests outside of that
State to taxation.

The requirement that iuch a company, as a condition of its right to do
intrastate business, shall, in the form of a fee, pay to the State a

PULLMAN CO. v. KANSAS.
216 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

specified per cent of its authorized capital, is a violation of the
Constitution of the United States, in that such a single fee, based
on all the property, interests and business of the company, within
and out of that State, is, in effect, a tax both oil the interstate business of that conpany, and on its property outside of that State,
and compels the company, in order that it may (1o local business in
conneetion with its interstate business, to waive its constitutional
cxemption from state taxation on its interstate business and on its
property outside of the State.
A State can no more exact such a waiver than it can prescribe as a
condition of the company's right to (1o local business that it agree
to waive the constitutional guaranty of the equal l)rotection of the
laws, or the guaranty against being deprived of its property otherwise than by dle process of law.
A dccree ousting and prohibiting a company from doing intrastate
business within a State for refusing to pay such a tax should not be
granted, but the aid of the court should be refused because a (lecree
would, in cffect, recognize the validity of a condition which the State
could not; constitutionally prescribe under the guise of a feb for
permission to do intrastate business.
75 Kansas, 664, reversed.

THir; facts, which involve the constitutionality of certain
features of the Bush act, which was under consideration in
the preceding case, arc stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frank B. Kellogg, with whom Mr. Charles Blood Smith,
Mr. FrancisB. Daniels and Mr. Gustavus D. Fernaldfor plaintiff in error.1
Mr. Rush. Taggartand Mr. Henry D. Estabrook, with whom
Mr. John F. Dillon, Mr. George H. Fearons, and Mr. Charles
Blood Smith were on the brief, for plaintiff in error in No. 4,
artued simultaneously herewith.'
Mr. C. C. Coleman, with whom Mr. Fred S. Jackson,
Attorney General of the State of Kansas, was on the brief,
for defendant in error in this case and in No. 4, argued simultaneously herewith.1
1 For abstracts of arguments see ante, pp.' I to 18.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

216 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a proceeding in quo warranto, instituted by the State
in the Supreme Court of Kansas against the Pullman Company, a corporation of Illinois, in which the State, by its
petition, prays that the defendant be required to show by
what authority it exercises within Kansas the corporate right

and power of charging compensation for the use of reserved
seats in its cars by day and sleeping berths during the night
and of serving meals in its dining cars within the State of
Kansas, such services, it is alleged, being rendered to and said
fees being collected from passengers transferring upon railroads from places within the State to other places within the
State; and that it be adjudged that the defendant has no
authority of law for the performance of such corporate acts,
powers, fyanchises and business in the State of Kansas, and
be ousted of and from the exercise within the State of the
said corporate rights and franchises and of receiving compensation therefor.
On the petition of the company the case was removed to
the Circuit Court of the United States, but that court remanded it to the state court, where the defendant filed an
answer resisting the relief asked on various grounds, one of
which was that such relief could not be granted consistently
with the power of Congress to regulate commerce among the
several States, or with rights belonging to the defendant under
the Constitution of the United States. A demurrer to theanswcr was sustained, and a decree rendered by which it was
adjudged that the Pullman Company be ousted, prohibited,
restrained and enjoined from transacting, as a corporation,
any business of a domestic or intrastate character within the
State of (ansas. The decree declared that it should in nowise
affect or restrict the interstate business of the company, nor
affect any of its contracts, obligations or corporate duties
with or to the Government ofthe United States.
The business of the Pullman Company, under its charter,

PULLMAN CO. v. KANSAS.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court..

was that of furnishing sleeping, parlor and tourist cars on
railroads, the company reserving to itself the right to charge
a certain price for the use of reserved seats in such cars during
the day time and sleeping berths during the night. The
company's business extended throughout the United States,
where any trunk line railroad was operated. It is not necessary to go into detail as to the mode in which that business
was conducted, further 'than to say that the business was and
is principally that of interstate commerce.
. This case arises under the statute of Kansas,
which was
examined in Western Union Telegraph Company v. Kansas,
recently decided, ante, p. 1. Laws of Kansas, Special Session,
1898, p., 27; Gen. Stat. Kansas, 1901, Title, Corporations,
p. 280; lb. 1905, same Title, p. 284. The only provisions of
that statute which need be recalled for the purposes of this
opinion are these: "Each corporation which has received
authority from the [State] charter board to organize shall,
before filing its charter with the secretary of state, as provided by law, pay to the stat6 treasurer of Kansas, for the
'benefit of the permanent school fund, a charter fee of one-tenth
of one per cent of its authorized capital, upon the first one
hundred thousand dollars of its capital stock, or any part
thereof; and upon the next four hundred' thousand dollars,
or any part thereof, one-twentieth of one per cent; and for each
million or major part thereof over and above the sum of five
hundred thousand dollars, two hundred dollars. . . . In
addition to the charter fee herein provided the secretary of
state shall collect a fee of two dollars and fifty cents for filing
and recording each charter containing not to exceed ten
folios, and an additional fee of twenty-five cents for each folio
in excess df ten contained in any charter. The fee for filing
and recording a charter shall also entitle the corporation to
a certified copy of its charter. All the provisions of this act,
including the payment of the fees herein.provided, shall apply
to foreign corporations seeking to do business in this State,
except that, in lieu of their charter, they shall file with the

OCTOBER TERM, .1909.
,Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

secretary of state a certified copy of their charter, executed
by the proper officer of the State, Territory or foreign country
under whose laws they are incorporated; and any corporation
applying for a renewal of its charter shall comply with all the
provisions of this act in like manner and to the same extent
as is herein provided for the chartering and organizing of
new corporations."
"§ 1267. Any corporation organized under the laws of another State, Territory or foreign country
and authorized to do business in this State shall be subject
to the same provisions, judicial control, restrictions, and
penalties, except as herein provided, as corporations organized under the laws of this State." lb., §§ i264, 1267.
Proceeding under the statute of Kansas, the Pullman Company made written application to the Charter Board for
permission to engage inbusiness in that State. The application was granted, and the Board made the following order:
"The board having under consideration the application of
The Pullman Company, a foreign corporation organized under
the laws. of the State of illinois, for leave to transact the business of a sleeping car company in the State of Kansas; and it
appearing that said foreign corporation has; in due form of
law, filed with the secretary of state a certified copy of its
charter, executed by the proper officers of the State of its
domicile, and the written consent, irrevocable, of said corporation that actions may be commenced against it in the
proper court of any county in this State in which the cause of
action may arise, accompanied by a duly certified copy of the
resolution of the board of directors of said corporation authorizing the .proper officers to execute the same, it is, upon
motion, thereupon ordered that said application be granted,
and that said applicant be authorized and empowered to
transact the business of operating sleeping cars, dining cars,
tourist ears and other cars within the State of Kansas, and
receiving money for such services, and transacting within the
State its business of a sleeping car and transportation company, provided, that this order shall not take effect and no

PULLMAN CO. v. KANSAS.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

certificate of such authority shall issue or be delivered to said
company until such applicant shall have paid to the State
Treasurer of Kansas for the benefit of the permanent school
fund the suni of fourteen thousand eight hundred dollars, being
the charter fees provided by law, necessary to be paid by the
corporation with a capital of 87/,000,000, seeking to transact
business within this State. It is further understood, ordered
and provided that nothing herein contained shall apply to
nor be construed as restricting in anywise the transaction,
by said applicant, of its interstate busin(ss; but that this
grant of authority and requirement as to l)aym(nt relate only
to the business transacted wholly within the State of Kanisas."
We have seen, from the provisions of the statute, as set
forth in Western Union Telegraph Company v. Kan.as, ante,,
p. 1, that it is made a condition of the right of a for(eigii corporation, seeking to do local business in Kansas, that i should
apply to the State Charter Board for permission to do so.
It is also prescribed as a condition of the right of a foreign
corporation to do intrastate business in Kansas that it shall
pay not only an application fee of $25; but a charter fee "of
one per cent of its authorized capital upon the first one hundred
thousand dollars of its capital stock or any part thereof; and
upon the next four hundred thousand dollars or any part
thereof, one-twentieth of one per cent; and for each million or
major part thereof over and above the sum of five hundred
thousand dollars, two hundred dollars."
The Pullman Comilpany is admittedly engaged, as it has
been continuously for many years,,in connmerce ainong all the
States of the Union, as well as in intrastate business in Kansas.
The Charter Board, we have seen, gave it permission. to
engage in intrastate business in Kansas on condition that it
should pay to the 'State Treasurer for the benefit of the permanent school fund of the State, as a charter fee, the sum of
$14,800, which is the prescribed statutory per cent of the
company's authorized capital, representing all of its prolerty
and interests everywhere, in and out of the State, and all its

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S:

business, both interstate and intrastate. It does not appear
how much of the single "fee'.' demanded by the State is to be
referred to the interstate business of the company nor how
much to its property outside of the State, nor what part has
reference to its intrastate business or to its property within
the State.
The Pullman Company refused to pay the fee so demanded,
upon the general ground, among others, that the State could
not, consistently with the Constitution of the United States
or with the company's rights under the Constitution, make it
a condition of its doing intrastate business in Kansas, that
the company should pay, in the form of a fee, a specified
per cent of all its authorized capital; that such a fee necessarily
operated as a burden on the company's interstate business as
well as a tax on its property interests outside of the State,
and was hostile to its constitutional right of exemption from
local taxation in reference to its property beyond the jurisdiction of the State.
For the reasons, and under the limitations, expressed in
the opinion delivered in Western Union Telegraph Company
v. Kansas, ante, p. 1, and without expressing any opinion
upon questions' raised by the pleadings but not covered by
this opinion, we hold, 1. That the Pullman Company was not
bound to obtain the permission of the State to transact
interstate business within its limits, but could go into the
State, for the purposes of that business, without liability to
taxation there with respect to such business, although subject
to reasonable local regulations for the safety; comfort ani
convenience of the people which did not, in a real, substantial sense, burden or regulate its interstate business nor
subject its property interests outside of .the State to taxation
in Kansas. 2. That the requirement that the company, a
a condition of its. right to do intrastate business in Kansas,
should, in the form Of a fee, pay to the State a specified per
cent of its authorized capital, was a violation of the Constitution of the United States, in that such a single fee, based

PULLMAN CO. v. KANSAS.
216 U. S.

WHITE,

J., concurring.

as it was on all the property, interests and business of the
company, within and out of the State, was, in effect, a tax
both on the interstate business of that company, and on its
property outside of Kansas, and compelled the company, in
order that it might do local business in Kansas in connection
with its interstate business, to waive its constitutional exemption from state taxation on its interstate business and on its
property outside of the State and contribute from its capital
to the support of the public schools of Kansas; that the State
could no more exact such a waiver than it could prescribe
as a condition of the company's right to do local business in
Kansas that it agree to waive the constitutional guaranty of
the equal protection of the laws, or the guaranty against being
deprived of its property otherwise than by due process of law.
3. That a decree ousting and prohibiting the company from
doing intrastate business in Kansas was improperly granted,
the aid of the court should have been refused and the bill
dismissed, because a decree such as the State asked would,
in effect, have recognized the validity of a condition which
the State could not constitutionally prescribe under the
guise of a fee for permission to do intrastate business.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY heard the argument of' this case,
participated in its decision, and approves this opinion.
On the authority of Western Union Tel. Co. v. Kansas,
ante, p. 1, and for the reasons and with the reservations therein
set forth in the opinion in that case, the decree must be reversed and the cause remanded for such further proceedings
as may be consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, concurring.

It is not disputed that the Pullman Company many years
ago entered Kansas and has since therein operated its cars
for the purposes of interstate as well as local business. Although the cars, in passing in and out of the State, may not
have been constantly the same, it was long ago settled (Pull-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
WHITE, J.,

concurrifig.

216 U. S.

man's Car Company v. Pennsytvania, 141 U. S. 18) that a
proportionate number of the cars so used are to be considered'as having a definite situs in the State, and therefore
as property permanently therein, subject to the power of
the State to tax. Taking this rule into consideration, in my
opinion the case is controlled by the reasons given for my
concurrence in Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, ante,
p. 1. That is to say, as a due proportion of the cars of the
Pullman Company used in the State of Kansas were there
permanently, I am not able to conclude that the company
or its property were not permanently in the State, and hence
that such property can be taken by the State without due
process of law, as a condition of the right to bring the property
into the State and there carry on local business. To so hold
without ,overruling Pullman'sCar Co. v. Pennsylvaniaand the
many cases which have followed it, would be to place the
court in the position of saying on the one hand, for the purpose of upholding the State's lawful power of taxation, that
the property of the company was permanently in the State,
and on the other of deciding, for the purpose of enabling the
State to impose an unconstitutional tax, that the company
'Was outside of the State and had no property permanently
employed in carrying on business therein. True it is, that
.my concurrence in Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas
was placed upon the. ground that the company was in the
State, and consequently was not subject to be dealt with
upon the fictitious assumption that such was not the fact.
Ho.wever, it was also said that I did not dissent from the
fundamental application Which the court made of the commerce clause of the Constitution. As the reasons for this
statement differed somewhat from those expressed by the
court in its opinion, it seems to me, in view of the importance
of the subject, that it is my duty now to state as briefly as
possible my reasons for thinking that the tax in question is
repugnant to the commerce clause of the Cpnstitution, even
under the assumption that the corporation and its property.

PULLMAN CO. v. KANSAS.
216 U. S.

WITE, J., concurring.

were out of the State, and that the tax is a condition affixed
to the privilege of coming in to do a local business, and may
therefore be escaped by not doing such business.
The conflict of opinion as to the decisive effect of certain
prior decisions of the court exacts that the principles which
this case involves should be first definitely brought into view
in order that the appositeness of the cases referred to may be
determined in the light of the true doctrine by which the case
should be controlled. I therefore at once summarily state
certain dominant propositions which are to my mind not
subject to be controverted, because whatever may be the
differences of opinion as to some of them considered originally,
they are all so, conclusively established by the previous decisions of this court as to be now beyond dispute.
1. A State may not exert its concededly lawful powers in
such a manner as to impose a direct burden on interstate
commerce. This is so elementary as to require no reference
to the multitude of authorities by which it is sustained.
2. Even though a power exerted by a State, when inherently
considered, may not in and of itself abstractly impose a direct
burden on interstate commerce, nevertheless such exertion of
authority will be a direct burden on such commerce if the
power as exercised operates a discrimination against that commerce, or, what is equivalent thereto, discriminates against
the right to carry it on. Darnell v. Memphis, 208 U. S. 113;
Am. Steel & Wire Co. v. Speed, 192 U. S.. 500, and authorities
there cited.
3. Subject to constitutional limitations, the States have
the power to regulate the doing of-local business within their
borders. As a result of this power, and of the authority
which government may exert over corporations, the States
have the right to control the coming within their borders of
foreign corporations. In cases where this power is absolute
the States may affix to the privilege such conditions as are
deemed proper, or, without giving a reason, may arbitrarily
forbid such corporation from coming in. When, therefore,
VOL. CCXVI-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
WHITE,

J., concurrifig.

216 U. S.-

in a case where the absolute power to exclude obtains, a
condition is affixed tothe right to conic into a State and a
foreign corporation avails of such right, it may not assail the
constitutionality of the condition because by accepting the
privilege it has voluntarily consented to be bound by the
condition. In other words, in such case the absolute power
of the State is the determining factor and the validity of the
condition is immaterial. This doctrine finds, in the decided
cases, no terser and clearer statement than that expressed in
the opinion in Horn Silver ' 1Mining Company v. New York,
143 U. S. 305. In that case, a manufacturing company,
organized under the laws of Utah, was sought to be made
liable for a tax on the franchise of carrying on in the State of
New, York a manufacturing business. It contested liability
on the ground that the tax was repugnant to the Constitutiofi
of the United States. The court, in deciding that the constitutionality of the burden was an irrelevant consideration
because of the absolute power of the State to impose it as a
condition on the right of the corporation to come into the
State and do a manufacturing, and therefore local business,
said, speaking of the power of the State (p. 315):
"Having the absolute power of excluding the foreign corporation the State may, of course, impose such conditions
upon permitting the corporation to do business within its
limits as it may judge expedient; and it may make the grant
or privilege dependent upon the payment of a specific license
tax, or a sum proportioned to the amount of its capital. No
individual member of the corporation, or the corporation
itself, can call in question the validity of any exaction which
the State may require for the grant of its privileges. It does
not lie in any foreign corporation to complain that it is subjected to the same law with the domestic corporation."
And in a passage of the opinion previous to the one just
quoted, concerning the right of a State, where its power to
exclude was absolute, to impose such condition as it pleased,
,it was observed (p. 314):

PULLMAN CO. v. KANSAS.
216 U. S.

WIuTE,

J., concurring.

"This doctrine has been so frequently declared by this
court that it must be deemed no longer a matter of discussion,
if any question can ever be considered at rest."
InI addition, the following cases either directly, express or
by fair implication must be taken as sustaining the right of
the State, where it has the absolute power: to exclude, to affix
whatever condition it de ems proper to the right of a foreign
corporation to come in, and the consequent inability of such
corporation after accepting the privilege to assail the cofistitutionality of the condition: Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168;
Postal Telegraph Co. v. Charleston, 153 U. S.692; Hooper v.
California,155 U. S.648; Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 177
U. S. 28; Pullvmn Co. v. Adams, 189 U. S.420; Allen v.
Pullman's Palace Car Co., 191 U. S. 171; Security Mut. Ins.
Co. v. Prewitt, 202 U. S.246; National Council v. State Council,
203 U. 5. 151.
4. The absolute power of the State, as stated in the preceding proposition, does not include the right to exclude a foreign
corporation from doing in a State interstate commerce business, since the regulation of such business is vested by the
Constitution in Congress, and the States are impotent, as
stated in the first and second propositions, to directly burden
the right to do such business or to discriminate against those
doing it. Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47. And, indeed,
by necessary implication, the want of power in the States to
exclude corporations as well as individuals from carrying on
withiz their borders interstate commerce results, by implication, from the decisions in the cases previously cited under
proposition 3. This is aptly illustrated by the Horn Silver
Mining case, where, after -stating, in the clearest way, the
absolute power of the State, generally speaking, to exclude
a foreign corporation, it was declared (143 U. S. 314-315):
"Only two exceptions or qualifications have been attached
to it in all the numerous adjudications in which the subject
has been considered, since the judgment of this court was
announced more than half a century ago in Bank of Augusta

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
WHITE, J., concurring.

216 U. S.

v. Earle, 13 Pet. 519. One of these qualifications is that the
State cannot exclude from its limits a corporation engaged in
interstate or foreign commerce, established by the decision
in Pensacola Telegraph Co. v..Western Union Telegraph Co.,
96 U. S. 1, 12. The other limitation on the power of the State
is, where the corporation is in the employ of the General Government, an obvious exception, first stated, we think, by the
late Mr. Justice Bradley in Stockton v. Baltinore & New York
Railroad, 32 Fed. Rep. 9, 14. As that learned justice said:
'If Congress should employ a corporation of ship-builders to
construct a man-of-war, they would have the right to purchase
the necessary timber and iron in any State of the Union.'
And this court, in citing this passage, added, 'without the
permission and against the prohibition of the State.' Pembina
Mining Co. v. Pennsylvania, 125 U. S. 181, 186."
Let me then test the question for decision by the light of
these principles.
As it is obvious that the Pullman Company, in so far as it
was engaged in interstate commerce within the State' of
Kansas, was independent of the will of the State, it follows
that the State had no absolute power to exclude the corporation, and therefore no authority to impose an unconstitutional
burden as the price for the privilege of doing local in conjunction with the interstate commerce business. The power
to exclude in such a case being only relative, affords no warrant for the exertion by the State of an absolute prohibition.
That is to say, the exerted power could not in the nature of
things be wider than the authority in virtue of which alone it
could be called into play. Moreover, to me it seems that where
the right to do an interstate commerce business exists, without
regard to the assent of the State, a state law which arbitrarily
.forbids a corporation from carrying on with its interstate
commerce business a local business, would be a direct burden
upon interstate commerce and, in conflict with the principles
stated in proposition 1. This follows, since the imposition on
a corporation which has the right, to do interstate commerce

PULLMAN CO. v. KANSAS.
.- 216 U. S.

WHITE,

J., concurring.

business within the State of an unconstitutional burden for
the privilege of doing local business is, in my opinion, the
exact equivalent of placing a direct burden on its interstate
commerce business. It is not by me doubted that as a practical question the arbitrary prohibition against doing a local
business imposed on one engaged in and having the right to
engage in interstate commerce is to burden that business.
But passing, for argument's sake, the considerations just
stated, if a State in express terms enacted that all foreign
corporations which availed of the right granted them by the
Constitution of the United States to carry on interstate commerce within the State without the previous consent of the
State should, as a penalty for not obtaining that consent, be
deprived of all right to transact local business, it would not, I
assume, be contended that such an enactment was not a
discrimination against the corporations to which it applied
because of their possession of a right conferred upon them by
the Constitution of the United States. And yet such must
be the direct and immediate result of applying an absolute
act of exclusion to corporations who are not subject to such
absolute exercise of power, because of the right bestowed upon
them by the Constitution of the United States to carry on
within a State an interstate commerce business. Nor is it an
answer to say that, as a State may exclude a foreign corporation from doing local business, the exertion of its lawful power
may not be prevented because a bad reason is given or an
illegal condition imposed, since the power exerted is the test
and not the reason v'hich has been given for exerting the
power. But the proposition in effect assumes the question at
issue, since however controlling it may be conceded to, be
when applied to a case where the absolute power to exclude
exists, it can have no application to a case where the power
of the State is relative, because it may not extend to prohibiting the doing of an interstate commerce business. In
such a case the limitation upon the power operates not only
to forbid the exclusion, as the result of the bxpress enactment

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
WHITE,

J., concurrirfg.

216 U. S.

of an unconstitutional condition, but also in the nature of
things prohibits the absolute exclusion, although the reason
for the attempted exertion of such a power be not given. In
other words, where the power to exclude is absolute no inquiry as to the reasons for its exertion need be resorted to
in order to determine its constitutionality. But, where the
power is only relative, because it may not be exerted under
particular conditions and circumstances, the violation of the
Constitution cannot be accomplished by a failure to express
the reason for the exclusion, and thus absolute power be
exerted where such power does not exist. The controlling
influence of the Constitution may not be destroyed by doing
indirectly that which it prohibits from being done directly.
It is to be observed that the conclusions just expressed
take away from the States no lawful power. It leaves to the
States the right to exert absolute authority where such power
is possessed, and simply requires that where, as a result of the
Constitution of the United States, the power is not absolute
but is merely relative, not only the right of regulation but
likewise the right to exclude must be exerted conformably to
the requirements of the Constitution of the United States;
that is, in such a manner as not, either directly by the expression of a condition, or indirectly by its non-expression,
to deprive of rights secured by that instrument.
The principal cases relied upon to establish that the prior
decisions support the right of the States to impose the unconstitutional tax here in question are reviewed in the opinion
of the court, and I might well rest content with that review.
But,. in addition, it to me seems that none of the cases relied
upon are apposite here, for two obvious reasons, because they
either involved the exercise of state power concerning subjects over which the authority of the State was absolute or
considered state burdens which were upheld as being in effect,
neither direct burdens upon interstate commerce nor discriminatory against such commerce.
A very summary reference to the cases will be made for

PULLMAN CO. v. KANSAS.
216 U. S.

WHITE,

J., concurring.

the purpose of indicating why this is said. Paul v. Virginia,
8 Wall. 168, involved the validity of a state statute which
prescribed certain conditions for the( doing of the business
of insurance within a State by a foreign insurance company,
and it was held that such business was not commerce, and
therefore was within the absolute regulating power of the
States. Horn Silver Mining Coinpany v. New York, 143 U: S.
305, as previously shown, involved no (luestion of interstate
commerce, but the right of a foreign corporation to carry 'on
in a State a manufacturing busines, without compliance with
the laws of the State. And although the rulitg of the court,
as heretofore stated, was in express terms placed upon the
absolute power of the State over the sutb,iect, the court was
careful to point out that such power (lid not embrace the
right to exclude a foreign corl)oration frlom doing an interstate
commerce business ill the State or exte(nd to excluding a
cor)oration chartered by the United States for governmental
purposes. Postal Telegraph Co. v. Clarleston, 153 U. S. 692,
involved a tax concerning which the court said (p. 699):
"The express terms of the ordinance restrict the tax to
'business done exclusively within the city of Charleston, and
not including any business done to or from points, without
the State, and not including any business done for the Government of the United States, its officers or agents.' " It is
certain that the burden was sustained on its inherent merit
as a purely lawful tax on a subject within the'State's authority and not as an unconstitutional tax on interstate
comierce, which, although void, was to be enforced because
it was a mere condition for the privilege of doing local business, which privilege had been accepted. This is certain,
since the court said (p. 695): .'That this license is not a condition upon which the right to do business depends, but is a
tax, is shown by the case of Home InsuranceCo. v. City Council,
93 U. S. 116, 122." How the ruling thus made is applicable
here my mind does not perceive. The distinction between
this case and that is but the difference which exists between

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
WHITE,

J., concurring.

216 U. S.

the exertion of a lawful power and the attempt to violate the
Constitution by doing that which it forbids to be done. The
gulf which separates the case referred to from this, it may be,
C I e made plainer by observing that this case involves no
issue as to the right of a State to lawfully tax the local business
of corporations, whether domestic or foreign. That right is
fully conceded. The only fight here challenged is the authority of a State to impose an unconstitutional tax and
validate the tax by making the payment of the unlawful tax
a condition of the right to do a local business. And this upon
the false assumption that absolute power to exclude exists;
that is, to impose an unlawful tax and sustain it .by another
unlawful assumption of power, a process of reasoning which,
to my mind, must rest on the proposition that in deciding
questions of constitutional power it is to be held that two
wrongs make a right. Hooper v. California, 155 U. S.'648,
was a case involving only the right of a State to absolutely.
control the doing of insurance business within the State, and
the doctrine of Paul v. Virginia was reiterated. The court,
however, was sedulous to declare that as that particular subject was not commerce, the authority'of the State was a'bsolute and not relative, but it expressly pointed out the limitation upon the absolute 'power which would obtain, where a
right arose in favor of a corporation under the Constitution
of the United States to engage within the Statein interstate
commerce. In Waters-Pierce Oil Company v. Texas, 177
U. S. 28, the oil company had accepted a permit from the
State of Texas to engage for the period therein stated in local
as well as interstate commerce within the State, upon the
conditions therein set forth. No .question was raised as to
what would have been the rights of the company had it gone
into the State for 'the purpose of transacting therein a purely
interstate commerce business without the consent of the State.
Indeed, the decision proceeded upon the theory that no such
question was involved in the case, since it was assumed in the
opinion that under the circumstances of the case the power

PULLMAN CO. v. KANSAS.
216 U. S.

WHITE,

J., concurring.

of the State was absolute and not relative, Paul v. Virginia
and cases of that character were cited. Hooper v. California
was referred to and the exception as to interstate commerce
business which that case enunciated was pointed out. It was
declared that the case could have been rested upon the Hooper
case without saying anything further, a conclusion wholly
incompatible with any other conception than that the right
recognized was based upon the absolute power of the State
and did not come within the exception based upon the right
to do an interstate commerce business, even by a foreign
corporation, which the Hooper case had announced and which
the case of Horn Silver' Mining Company had, in effect, treated
as being as well established as the principle of absolute power.
It is true that in Pullman Co. v. Adams, 189 U. S. 420, and
Allen v. Pullman's Palace Car Co., 191 U. S. 171, the taxes
which were assailed as invalid were treated as conditions imposed for the privilege of carrying on local business, and w'hich
were therefore considered to be optional, as the right to escape
payment would result upon discontinuing the doing of the
local business. But the taxes in question in those cases were
not levied upon interstate commerce, either directly or indirectly, but only upon the business done within the State,
and therefore substantially involved no question of the absolute right of the State to impose an unconstitutional condition
where the power of the State was not absolute but
only
relative. No reference was made in the opinion to the distinction stated in the previous cases between the absolute
power to exclude, generally considered and the relative
character of that power where the foreign corporation possessed the power to do an interstate commerce business,
irrespective of the consent of the State. Security Mutual
Insurance Company v. Prewitt, 202 U. S. 246, involved the
right of the State to deal with the business of insurance, a
matter purely of state concern, involving interstate commerce in none of its aspects; and the case of National Council
v. State Council, 203 U. S. 151, also involved the right of a

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
WuITE, J., concurring.

216 U.'S.

State to control the doing within the State of a business
purely local in character as distinct from an interstate commerce business.
Moreover, none of the cases referred to prevent me, in this
case, from acting upon my independent convictions, even if
it be conceded that expressions may be found in the opinions
in some of the cases which, when separated from their context
and apart from thesubject-matter of the controversies which
the cases presented, would tend to conflict with the views I
have expressed. This is said because certain is it that in none
of the cases is the slightest reference made to the distinction
between the absolute and relative power which this case involves and the direct burden which must result to interstate
commerce from the attempt to exert absolute power, where,
as the result of the interstate commerce clause of the Constitution, relative power alone obtains. When first after the
duty came to me of taking part in the work of the court the
.question arose of the right of a State in cases where it had
absolute authority to impose an unconstitutional condition
as a prerequisite to the right to dolocal business, my individual convictions were suppressed and my opinion yielded
because of the conception that it was my duty to enforce in
such a case the previous rulings of the court, however much
as an original question I would have held a contrary view.
But because my convictions were thus yielded in such a case
affords no reason why I now should assent to extending the
doctrine of the previous cases to conditions to which, in my
opinion, they do not apply. And certainly this should not be
done when the result of such extension of the previous cases
would be to destroy the efficiency of the commerce clause of
the Constitution, to .restrict the powers of Congress conferred
by that claute, and ultimately, by the doctrine to result from
the unwarranted extension of the cases, to destroy the substantial powers of both Congress and the States and establish
a system from which it would come to pass that, instead of
living under a constitutional government, we would live under

PULLMAN CO. v. KANSAS.
216 U. S.

HOLMES,

J., and THE CHIEF

JUSTICE,

dissenting.

a government 6f unconstitutional exactions, sanctioned by
means of the exertion of arbitrary and absolute power,
although the right to exert such power did not exist.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES, with whom
curied, dissenting.

THE CHIEF JUSTICE con-

As this case has received some further discussion beyond that
in Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, I will contribute
my mite. I do not care to add to what I said the other uay
as to the supposed accession of rights to a corporation because
it already has property in the State. Argument from Pullman's Palace Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18, is excluded by New York Central Railroad v. Miller, 202 U. S.
584, which shows that the, question whether there is any
necessary parallelism between liability to taxation elsewhere
and immunity at home still is an open question, p. 598, and
points out that in the earlier case the same cars were continuously receiving the protection of Pennsylvania, p. 597.
In the present case it is alleged that the cars are taxed in other
States as well as in Kansas, and that the property represented
by the capital of the company has no situs in Kansas. If I
thought it material I should say that on the declaration the
cars were taxable at the Pullman Company's domicil more
certainly than anywhere else. But I think it immaterial, for
the reasons that I gave last week; and, furthermore, the
argument drawn frorn the presence in the State of cars that
can be and are rolled out of it at will cannot, I should think,
1eimeant to be pressed.
I will add a few words on the broader proposition put
forward that the Constitution forbids this charge, whether the
corporation was established previously in the State or not.
I do not see how or why the right of a State to exclude a
corporation from internal traffic is complicated or affected
in any way by. the fact that the corporation has a right to
come in for another tl)I'pose. It is sid that in such a case

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
HOLMES,

J., and

THE CHIEF JUSTICE,

dissenting.

216 U. S.

the power of the State is only relative, and in the sense that
it is confined to the local business, I agree. But in the sense
that it is not absolute over that local business the statement
seems to me merely to beg the question that is to be discussed.
I do not understand why the power is less absolute over that
because it does not extend to something else. So again the
proposition that a State may not subject all corporations that
enter the State for commerce with other States to such conditions as it sees fit to impose upon local business, no matter
how offensive the terms, seems to me a proposition not to be
assumed but to be proved; or again that the arbitrary prohibition of local business is a burden on commerce among the
States. I am quite unable to believe that an otherwise lawful
exclusion from doing business within a State becomes an
unlawful or unconstitutional burden on commerce among
States because if it were let in it would help to pay the bills.
Such an exclusion is not a burden on the foreign commerce
at all, it simply is the denial of a collateral benefit. If foreign
commerce does not pay its way by itself I see no right to demand an entrance for domestic business to help it out.
The distinction that I believe exists is sanctioned by many
cases earlier than those referred to in my former dissent.
That the local busin(css of telegraph and railroad companies
may be taxed by the States has been held over and over again,
with iull acceptance of the doctrine that quoad hoc, 'the power
to tax involves the power to destroy,' M'Culloch v. Maryland,
4 Wheat. 316, 431, essentially the doctrine on which the power
of the States to tax interstate commerce was denied. Philadelphia & Reading R. R.. Co. v, Pennsylvania ('Case of the
State Freight Tax'), 15 Wall. 232. Thus in Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. Alabama, 132 U. S. 472, it was held that the
telegraph company could be taxed upon all messages carried
and delivered wholly within the State, and the principle was
stated by Mr. Justice Miller (p. 473) to be that this "class are
elements of internal commerce solely within the limits, and
jurisdiction, of the State, and therefore subject to its taxing

PULLMAN CO. v. KANSAS.
216 U. S.

HOLMES,

J., and

THE CHIEF JUSTICE, dissenting.

power." This was by a unanimous court, and followed the
intimations and decisions of earlier cases. The above passage
was cited and followed in Postal Telegraph Co. y. Charleton
City Council, 153 U. S. 692, when a license fee or tax was
exacted in respect of local business, and the previous decisions
were cited and commented upon by Mr. Justice Shiras. One
of the arguments repudiated was that the tax was a burden
upon commerce among the States. I do not see how the
reasoning that denies the power to tax one kind of-commerce
and asserts it with regard to the other can be reconciled with
the denial of the power of the State to exclude the latter
altogether, or to tax it for whatever sum it likes. The right
to tax "in its nature acknowledges no limits." Weston v.
Charleston, 2 Pet. 449, 466; People ex rel. Bank of Commerce
v. Commissioners of New York, 2 Black, 620.
I think that the tax in question, for I am perfectly willing
to call it a tax, was lawful under all the decisions of this court
until last week. From other points of view, if I were at liberty'
to take them, I should agree that it deserved the reprobation
it receives from the majority. But I have not heard and have
not been' able to friame any reason that I honestly can say
seems to mc to justify the judgment of the court in point of
law.
THi,, CHIEF JUSTICE concurs

in this dissent.

MR. JUSTiCE MCKENNA also dissents.

