OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
" 216 U. S.

Syllabus.

iron, as finished by another. If the builder made his brick,
shaped his 'timbers, and joined them all together, he would
plainly be a manufacturer as well as a builder; and if the
former 'was the principal part of the business, he would be
within the definition of the bankrupt act.

To say that one

who makes and then gives form and shape to the product made
is not engaged in manufacturing because he makes his product and gives it form and shape in the place where it is to

remain, is too narrow a construction.
In a case styled In re First NationalBank, 152 Fed. Rep. 64,
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, in an opinion by Sanborn, Circuit Judge, sustained an adjudication of
bankruptcy against a precisely similar corporation.
In Columbia Iron Works v. National Lead Company, 127 Fed.
Rep. 99, the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals adjudged that a
corporation engaged principally in the business of building
and repairing large steel ships for sale and upon order, who
prepared and gave shape to much of the raw material, was
engaged in manufacturing.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be reversed
and that of the District Court affirmed.

PICKETT v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 270.

Submitted January 3, 1910.-Decided February 21, 1910.

On the organization of a Territory into a State, Congress may-as it
did by the Oklahoma enabling act-transfer the jurisdiction of
general crimes committed in districts over which the United States
retains exclusive jurisdiction from territorial to Federal .courts,
and may extend such jurisdiction to crimes committed before and
after the enabling act. See United States v. Brown, 74 Fed. Rep. 43.

PICKETT v. UNITED' STATES.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

A statute creating a court to take jurisdiction of crimes will not be
to leaveacta
construed, if another construction is admissible, so asenabling

Oklahoma
judicial chasm; and so held-that under the

the Federal court had jurisdiction of certain specified crimes com-,

mitted after the enabling act was passed and before the State was
admitted.
The reason of a law as indicated. by its general terms should prevail
over its letter when strict adherence to the latter will defeat the
plain purpose of the law.

The granting or denying of a new trial is a matter not assignable as
error. Bucklin v. United States, 159 U. S. 682.
An assignment of error that is dotible is bad for that reason.
Continuances are within the discretion of the trial court; and, in the
absence of gross abuse, the action of the lower' court will not be

disturbed.
Assignments of error based on overruling objections to sufficiency of

the indictment and of admission of any evidence because the indictment is bad cannot be made on writ of error for the first time.
Assignments of error for rejection or admission of evidence cannot

be (Consid(erid in absence of bill of exceptions.
Stotes, 94 U. S.76.

Storm v. United

Tint: facts are stated in the opinion.
No counsel appered for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Atlorney General Harr for the United States.
MR. JTSTICE LURTON (telivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to a judgment of the Circuit Court of
the United States-for the Western District of Oklahoma, upon
a.conviction in a capital case, sued out by the plaintiff in
error, the defendant below, by authority of the fifth section of
the act of March 3,1891, 26 Stat. 826, 827.
The plaintiff in error, Silas Pickett, a negro, was indicted in
the District Court of the United States for the Western District
of Oklahoma for the murder of a negro known as Walter, the.
Kid, within the limits of the Osage Indian Reservation. The
indictment was remitted' to the Circuit Court for the same

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

district as required by § 1039, Revised Statutes. This murder
was charged as having been committed on October 14, 1907.
The State of Oklahoma was admitted to the Union on November 16, 1907. The offense was, therefore, committed before
its admission as a State, and for that offense the plaintiff in
error was, after such admission, both indicted and convicted
in a court of the United States for the Western District of
Oklahoma-the Osage Indian Reservation being within that
district. The jurisdiction of the court was. challenged by
motion to quash, by demurrer and by motion in arrest of
judgment.. Of course, if the offense was not one against the
.United States, or not committed within the territorial' jurisdiction of the District Court for the Western District of Oklahoma, the indictment would be bad, and the court which
tried and convicted the plaintiff in error, without jurisdiction.
But the crime charged in this. indictment was one against the
United States. By § 5339 of the Revised Statutes, as amended
by. the act of January 15, 1897,. c. 29, 29 Stat. 487, the crime
of murder; when committed within any "place or district or
country under the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States,"
isdefined and the-punishment provided. This general law was,
by § 2145, Rev. Stat., extended "to the Indian Country,"
when not within one or the.other of the exceptions of § 2146.
The averments of the indictment make it plain that the
crime charged was committed Within a "place
or district"
at that time exclusively under the jurisdiction of the United
States, being Indian Country, not Within any State. As it
also averred that the plaintiff inierror was a negro, and not an
Indian, and the person slain a negro and not an Indian, the
exceptions made by §2145, Rev. Stat., do not apply.
The crime was charged to have been committed on October 14, 1907, a date subsequent to the enabling act of June 16,
1906, under which, on November 20, 1907, Oklahoma was
admitted to the Union.
The jurisdiction of the District Court of the United States
exercised in respect to the indictment and trial of this plaintiff

PICKETT v. UNITED STATES.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the-Court.

in error depends upon the provisions of that enabling act.
Such a crime might have been prosecuted in the territorial
court for the proper district of the Territory, sitting as a court
of the United States and adhninistering, the law of the United
States in the exercise of its jurisdiction conferred by Congress.
Ex parte Crow Dog, 109 U. S. 556; Brown v. United States, 146
Fed. Rep. 975. But the function and jurisdiction of such
territorial courts would naturally terminate upon the Territory
becoming a State, and therefore render necessary some, provision for the transfer of pending business and jurisdiction in
respect of local matters to state courts and-of civil and criminal
business and-jurisdiction arising under the laws of the United
States to courts of the United States when they should come
into existence. Forsyth v. United States,.9 How. 571, 576.
It was, therefore, altogether competent for Congress to provide, as it did in the 14th section of this enabling act, for the
transfer of jurisdiction in respect of all crimes against the
United States-for the act must be read as applying to crimes
nder the general criminal law of the United States-to the
Federal courts provide(d by the same act.

If this could not be

done, the change from a territorial condition to that of a State
would operate as an automatic amnesty for crimes committed
against the general law of the United States Within districts
exclusively under its jurisdiction, and not within the jurisdiction of any State, for the court of the State could not be
empowered to prosecute criies against the laws of another

sovereignty.

Alartin v. Hunter, 1 Wheat. 304, 337.

The

power to punish was not lost if the crime was one of the character described an(l the enabling act might well l)rovide that
such crime, committed either before or after the admission
of the State, might be proseciuted in the courts of the United
States when established within the new %State. The subject
is elaborately considered and decided by District Judge Marshall in United States v. Baum, 74 Fed. Rep. 43.
Section 13 of the enabling act referied to provides "that
the State when wbdfitted [italics ours] shall be divided into

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
. Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S;

two judicial districts," for the appointment of a district judge,

clerk and marshal for each, and that the State should be
attached to the Eighth Judicial Circuit. It provides also for
the holding of regular terms of both the District and Circuit
Courts, with all the powers and jurisdiction of similar courts.
The fourteenth section was in these words:
"That all prosecutions for crimes or offenses hereafter committed in either of said judicial districts as hereby constituted
shall be cognizable within the district in which committed,
and all prosecutions for crimes or offenses committed before
the passage of this act in which indictments have not yet been
found or proceedings instituted shall be cognizable within the
judicial district as hereby constituted in which such crimes or
offenses were committed."
There may be some doubt as to whether the section set out
should be construed as applying to crimes and offenses committed before and after the passage of the enabling act or
only to such crimes committed before and after the admission
of the State. The reference to "the passage of this act," in
the second clause, would tend to the first construction. But
such a construction would leave out of consideration the fact
that neither the:courts nor the. judicial districts referred to
would exist until. the admission of the State by the express
terms of the preceding section, which should be read in connection with the fourteenth section. No construction should
be adopted, if.another equally admissible can be given, which
would result in what might be called a judicial chasm. Under
the first interpretation, crimes committed after the passage of
this enabling. act could not be prosecuted until the admission
of the State and the coming into existence of the courts and
judicial districts, to which jurisdiction of such crimes was to
be transferred. If such crimes' could only be prosecuted in
courts organized upon the admission of the State there would
be an indefinite period during which such crimes might go
unpunished. In fact, there elapsed seventeen months between
the, date of this enabling act and the admission of the State

PICKETT v. UNITED STATES.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and a consequent organization of the districts and courts to
which jurisdiction over such crimes was to be transfei-ed. A
construction which might result in such deplorable consequences should not be adopted if any more sensible meaning
can be reasonably given. The reason of the law, as indicated
by its general terms, should prevail over its letter, when the
plain purpose of the act will be-defeated by strict adherence
to its verbiage. Applications of this general rule are shown in
Holy Trinity Church v. United States, 143 U. S. 457; Lau Ow
Bew v. United States, 144 U. S. 47, 59; United States v. Corbett,
215 U. S.233, decided at this term. The obvious intention-was
that this, like the preceding section, should become effective
upon the State being admitted, and it should be read as applying to crimes and offenses before and after such admission. But
if the section be otherwise construed, the District Court had
in either case jurisdiction over this crime, for it was committed
after the enabling act, and whether it might have been prosecuted in a territorial court sitting as a court of the United
States before the admission of the State of Oklahoma, is not
here iml)ortant. It was not so prosecuted, and when the
Territory ceased to be a Territory and became a State the
jurisdiction of all such courts terminated, and jurisdiction
was properly transferred to the courts of the United States
having jurisdiction over the place of the crime.
There are a number of errors assigned. The first and tenth
are for error in denying a new trial. The granting or denying of a new trial is a matter not assignable as er:or. Bucklin
v. United States, 159 U. S. 682. The second assignment is
double, and therefore bad; but it is without merit. The
first error included is for overruling an objection to being tried
at Oklahoma City. No such objection is shown by*the record.
The remainder is for denyihg a continuance. Continuances
are within the discretion of the court, and unless great abuse
is shown, the action of the court below will not be disturbed.
As no bill of exceptions was taken, we have no showing of
abuse upon which the action of this court may be invoked.

OCTIOB:EIR 'FIAN,

1909.

Syllabus.

216 U. S.

The third and fourth errors assigned are for overruling an
objectioni miade to the sufliciency of the iIictinient and to the
admission of any evidence because the indictinent was bad.
No such ohjection is shown by the. record. The indictment is
not in form bad, nor vague, but charges the crime of murder
withIi great particularity. [here seems to have been no reason
for dou,)as to the crime charged. Besides, objections of
this character cannot be made l)Onl Writ of (errorfor the first
tin ic.
Aside front the (iuestiol of jurisdiction, v(l)Isi(hered herelofore, Ihe relililing iassignlilents 'are
for 1hI('d (,rors in adlnIittil" )rrlejcting evideilce. Bti. as It() hill (t except ions was
taken, iteste assignmn't.s caulot be considered. 8/mrmn v.
Unicd kslac8, 9-1 U. S.76.

HAAS v. lIIN KEIL, UNITE')
APPEAL FROM TH1E (i IOU[T ((IURT (,'

S'Il'AHS MAI{S1iAL.
TIHE UNITED'STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN 1)ISTRI(T OF

NE\W 1:ORK.

No. 367. Argued January 6, 7, 1910.-Decided February 21, 1910.

Notwithstanding the hardship necessarily entailed upon the accused
inbeing tried ina district other than that inwhich he resides, there
isno l)rinciple of constitutional law that entitles him to be tried
in the place of his residence.
Art. III, § 2 of, and the Sixth Amendment to, the Constitution secure
to the accused the right to a trial inthe district where the crime
iscommitted, and one committing a crime ina district where he

does not reside cannot object to his removal thereto for trial.
Where one has been indicted for the same offense in two or more

districts, in one of which he resides, it is the duty of the prosecuting
officer to bring the case to trial in the district to which the facts
most strongly point; and if the court first obtaining jurisdiction'of
the person of the accused does not object, the accused cannot object

