CHILDERS v. McCLAUGHRY.
216 U. S.

139

Statement of the Case.

CHILDERS v. McCLAUGHRY, WARDEN OF THE
UNITED STATES PENITENTIARY AT LEAVENWORTH.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 110. . Submitted January 26, 1910.-Decided February 21, 1910.

Where habeas corpus proceedings are based on the want of jurisdiction
in the trial court, and the question is whether under the statute

that court had jurisdiction, the jurisdiction of the court in which
the habeas proceeding is brought is not in issue, and if the constitutionality of the statute giving the trial court jurisdiction is
not involved, but only its construction, a direct appeal does not
lie to this court from the final order remanding the relator.

THE Oklahoma enabling act was approved June 16, 1906,
34 Stat. 267., c. 3335. November 16, 1907, the State was admitte(d into the-Union, 35 Stat. 2160.
(hilders was indicted October 21, 1906, in the United States
,ourt foi the Northern District of the Indian Territory, for
having, on August 6, 1ON, and within the jurisdiction of said
court, murdere(d one Lena Atwood. He was tried and convicted, and on June 17, 1907, sentenced to "be imprisoned in
the pemitentiary situated at F*ort Leavenworth, Kansas, for
the toirm and period of his natural life at hard labor."

He was

committe(d accordingly, and received at the United States
peniteintiary at Leavenworth, Kansas, by the warden, R. W.
Mc(Claughry, June 21, 1907.

November 29, 1907, Childers filed a petition for a writ of
habells corpus in the United States )istrict (ourt for the District, of Kansas.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statemcnt of the Case.

1

216 U. S.

The principal contention was that the United States court
in the Indian 'erritory had-no jurisdiction of the offense coininitted by Childers during the interim between the passage of
the Oklahoma enabling act and the admission of the State, in

view of the language of the enabling act, and especially of ยง 14.
Some minor errors not juris(lictional were assigned. The Distriet Court considered the terms of the act, construed ยง 14,
and denied the petition, and from that judgment an appeal
was taken directly to this court.
The Oklahoma enabling act, approved June.l(;, 1906, proviled (34 Stat. 275):
"SEC. 13. That said State when admitted as aforqsaid shall

constitute two judicial districts, to be known as the eastern
district of Oklahoma and the western district of Oklahoma;
the said Indian Territory shall constitute said eastern district
and the said Oklahoma Territory shall constitute said western
district.

.

.

.

The circuit and distiict courts 'for each of

said districts, and the judges thereof, respectively, shall possess the same powers and jurisdiction and perform the same
duties required to be performed by the other circuit and district courts and judges of the United States, and shall be governed by the same laws and regulations.
"SEC. 14. That all prosecutions for crimes or offenses hereafter committed in either of said judicial districts as hereby
constituted shall be cognizable within the district in which
committed, and all prosecutions for crimes or offenses conimitted before the passage of this act in which indictments
have not yet been found or proceedings instituted shall be
cognizable within the judicial district as hereby constituted in
which such crimes or offenses were committed.
"SE c. 15. That all appeals or writs of error taken from the
Supreme Court of Oklahoma Territory, or the United States
Court of Appeals in the Indian Territory to the Supreme. Court
of the United States or the United States Circuit Court of Allpeals for the eighth circuit, previous to the final admission of
such State shall he pro)s'tiuted to finiI (l,'inati()ias th om
igh

CHILDERS v. McCLAUGHRY.
216 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

this act had not been passed. And all cases in which final
judgment has been rendered in such Territorial appellate
courts which appeals or writs of error might be had except for
the admission of such State may still be sued out, taken, and
l)rosecuted to the Supreme Court of the United States or the
United States Circuit Court of Appeals under the provisiow-

of existing laws.
"SjEc. 16.' That all causes pending in the Supreme and District Courts of Oklahoma Territory and in the Uinited States
courts and in the United States Court of Appeals in the Indian
Territory arising under the Constitution, laws or treaties of the
United States, or affecting ambassadors, ministers or consuls
of the United States, or of any other country or State, or of
admiralty or of maritime jurisdiction, or in which the United
States may be a party, or between citizens of the same S:tte
claiming, lands under grants from different States; and in all
cases where there is a controversy between citizens of said
Territories prior to admission and citizens of different States,,
or betwee'n citizens of different States, or between a citizen of
-ny State and citizens or subjects of any foreign state or coun-Iry, and in which cases of diversity of citizenship there shall be
nr
than two thousand dollars in controversy, exclusive of
interest and costs, shall be transferred to the proper United
States Circuit or District Court for final disposition.
'S ic. 17. That all cases pending in the Supreme Court of
said Territory of Oklahoma and in the United States Court of
ppe'als in the Indian Territory not transferred to the United
States Circuit and District Courts in said State of Oklahoma
shll be proceeded with, held, and determined by the Supreme
or other final a)lelate court of such*State as the successor of
said Territorial Supreme Court and appellate court, subject to
the same right to review upon appeal or error to the Supreme
Court of the U nited States now allowed from the Supreme or
,rppellato courts of a State under existing laws. Jurisdiction
of all eases Iwnmtlirg in the courts of original jurisdiction in
said Territories nHot ti'msf'rrcd to the United States Circuit

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Case.

216 U. S.

and District Courts shall devolve upon and be exercised by the
courts of original jurisdiction created by said State.
"SEC. 18. That the Supreme Court or other court of last
resort of said State shall be deemed to be the successor of said
Territorial appellate courts.
"Sue. 19. That the courts of original jurisdiction of such
State shall be deemed to be the successor of all courts of original jurisdiction of said Territories.
"SEc. 20. That all cases pending in the District Courts of
Oklahoma Territory and in the United States courts for the
Indian Territory at the time said Territories become a State
not transferred to the United States Circuit or District Courts
in the State of Oklahoma shall be proceeded with, held, and
determined by the courts of said State, the successors of said
District Courts of the Territory of Oklahoma and United
States courts for the Indian Territory.
"SEC. 21. That the constitutional convention may by
ordinance provide for the election of officers for a full State
government, including mer Ibers of the legislature and five
Representatives to Congress. . . . Such State government shall remain in abeyance until the State shall be adinitted into the Union and the election for State officers held,
"
as provided for in"this act.
The act of March 4, 1907, 34 Stat. 1286, c.2911, amended
ยง 16, 17 and 20 of the Oklahoma enabling act so as to read as
follows:
"SEC. 16. 'That all civil causes, proceedings,. and matters
pending in the Supreme or District Courts of Oklahoma Territory, or in the United States courts or United States Court of
Appeals in the Indian Territory, arising under the Constitushall be
tion, laws, or treaties of the United States....
transferred to the proper United States Circuit or District
Court established by this act, for final disposition, and shall
therein be proceeded with in the same manner as if originally
brought therein. . .
"Prosecutions for all crimes and offenses committed within

CHILDERS v. McCLAUGHRY.
216 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the Territory of Oklahoma or in the Indian Territory, pending
in the District Courts of the Territory of Oklahoma or in the
United States courts in the Indian Territory upon the admission of such Territories as a State, which, had they been cominitted within a State, would have been cognizable in the
Federal courts, shall be transferred to and be proceeded with
in the United States Circuit or District Court established by
this act for the district in which the offenses were committed in
the same manner and with the same effect as if they had been
committed within a State. Prosecutions for all such offenses
committed within either of said Territories and pending in the
Supreme Court of the Territory of Oklahoma, or in the United
States Court of Appeals in the Indian Territory, upon the admission of such Territories as a State, shall be transferred to
the United States Circuit Courts created by this act for the
..
district within which the offense was committed .
"SEC. 17. That all causes, proceedings, and matters, civil
or criminal, pending in the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Oklahoma, or in the United States Court of Appeals in the
Indian Territory, not transferred to the United States Circuit
or District Courts in said State of Oklahoma shall be proceeded with, held, and determined by the Supreme Court or
other final appellate court of such State as the successor of
said Supreme Court of the Territory of Oklahoma and of theUnited States Court of Appeals in the Indian Territory, subject to the same right to review upon appeal or writ of error
to the Supreme Court of the United States now allowed from
the Supreme or final appellate court of a State under existing
laws.
"SEc. 20. That all causes, proceedings, and matters, civil
or criminal, pending in the District Courts of Oklahoma Territory, or in the United States courts in the Indian Territory at
the time said Territories become a State, not transferred to the
United States Circuit or District Courts in the State of Oklahoma, shall be proceeded with, held, and determined by the
courts of said State, the successors of said District Courts of

OCTO BIlt n,1iM, 19U9.
Opinion of the Coud't.

216 U. S.

the Territory of Oklahoma, and the United States courts in
the Indian Territory. . . . All criminal cases pending in
the United States courts in the Indian Territory, not transferred to the United States Circuit or District Courts in the'
State of Oklahoma, shall be prosecuted to a final determination in the State courts of Oklahoma under the laws now in
force in that Territory."
Mr. L. F. Parker,Jr., and Mr. 0. L. Rider for appellant.
Mir. Assistant Attorney General Harr for appellec.
Mt. CHI EF JUSTCE FULLER, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The jurisdiction of the District Cowt. was not in issue, nor,
properly speaking, was the construction or application of the

Constitution involved in this case. The real question before
the District Court was whether the United States court for the
Northern District of the Indian Territory had jurisdiction of
the offense for which Childers was undergoing punishment,
in view of the provisions of the Oklahoma enabling act. The
allegation in the petition that Childers has been deprived of
his liberty without due process of law was based entirely upon
the alleged . ",nt of jurisdiction in the United States court of
the Indian Territory to try him for the offense. The question
before the lower court was simply one of statutory construetion, and not of the unconstitutionality of the statute in question.
In the case of in re Lennon, 150 U. S. 393, 400, Lennon had
been committed for contempt by the Circuit Court for the
Northern District of Ohio, and thereupon applied to the same
court for a writ of habeas corpus, the petition alleging, as in this
case, that he was restrained of his liberty in violation of the
C(nistitution, aid that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction to
coniimmit him. The writ was refused, and a direct appeal was
taken to this court.

CIILDERS v. McCLAUGHRY.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

After pointing out that the jirisdiction of the Circuit Court
to issue a writ of habeas corpus was not in issUe, but that jurisdiction was entertainied, this court said:
Nor can the attempt be successfully made to bring the case
within the class of cases in which the construction or application of the Constitution is involved inthe sense of the statute,
on the contention that the petitioner was deprived of his liberty without due process of law. The petition does not proceed on any such the(ry, but entirely on the ground of want of
jurisdiction in the prior case over the subject-ifiatter and *over
the person of petitioner, iii respect of inquiry into which the
juris(diction of the Circuit Court was SoughLt,. If, in the opinion
of that coturt, the restraininig order had been absolutely void,
or the l)etitioner were not I)oum(i )y it, he wouild hav( tbeen discharged, not because, he would otherwise be deprived of due
process, but because of the invalidity of the proceedings for
want of jurisdiction. .The opinion of the Circuit Court was
that jurisdiction in the prior suit and proceedings existed, and
the discharge was refused, but an appeal from that judgment
'.directly to this court would not, therefore, lie on the ground
that the application of the Constitution was involved as a'con.sequence of an alleged erroneous determination of the questions actually put in issue by the petitioner."
Carey v. Houston & Central Rwy., 150 U. S. i70; Same v.
Same, 161 U. S. 115, 126; Cosmopolitan Mining Co. v. WalNh,
193 U. S. 460, 470; Empire State-Idaho Mining Co. v. Hanley,
205 U. S. 225, 232.
Appe(d di'Miissed.
VOL. CCXVI-10

