CENTRAL TRUST CO. v. CENTRAL TRUST CO. 251
216 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

withifh all the definitions, can be enforced by the writ of mrnandamus."
We think the judgment of the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia, affirming the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the )istrict, was right, and it is
Affirmed.

CENTRAL TRUST COMPANY v. CENTRAL TRUST
COMPANY OF ILLINOIS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 86.

Argued January 18, 1910.-Decided February 21, 1910.

The management of the post office business has been placed by Congress in the hands of the Postmaster General and his assistants,
and the Postal Laws and Regulations provide for the-delivery of
mail where two or more persons of the same name receive mail at
the same post office.
While the benefit of one's legal name belongs to every party, individual or corporation, it may at times be necessary, and proper
to look beyond the exact legal name to the name by which a party
is customarily known and addressed in order to properly deliver
mail to the person to whom it is addressed.
The findings of fact by officers in charge of the several departments'
of the Government are conclusive unless palpable error appears.
In this case the First Assistant Postmaster General having made an
order directing delivery of mail addressed to Central Trust Company, Chicago, to the Central Trust Company of Illinois instead
of to a South Dakota corporation having the name Central Trust
Company, held that there was not enough clear right shown by
the latter company to justify the setting aside of the order by the
court.
152 Fed. Rep. 427,'affirmed.

ON June 22, 1906, the Central Trust Company, a corpora-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Statement of the Case.

216 U. S.

tion engaged in the mining, promoting, real estate and trust
business, filed its bill in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern District of Illinois to compel the defendant,
Frederick A. Busse, postmaster at Chicago, to deliver to it certain mail-matter which it claims it was entitled to receive and
which he wrongfully delivered to the defendant the Central
Trust Company of Illinois. Demurrers to the bill were filed,
which were sustained, and the bill dismissed. On appeal to the
United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit
the decree of dismissal was affirmed, and thereupon the case
was brought here on appeal.
The allegations in the bill are that on or about April 17,
1897, the complainant was created a corporation by the State
of South Dakota under the name and title of "Central Trust
Company," and was authorized by said State to establish an
office and hold directors' meetings in Chicago; that on or about
that date it established an office in Chicago on the corner of
Monroe and La Salle streets, and began to carry on its business,
though without any express authority from the State of Illinois, and continued to do so up to and including February 7,
1903; that in August, 1902, it applied to the Secretary of State
of Illinois for a license to do business within that State, and
complied with all the statutory requirements for foreign corporations desiring to do business within the State; that owing to
a contest made before the Secretary of State by the Central
Trust Company of Illinois the granting of said license was delayed until February 7, 1903, at which time it was granted, and
that from that' date complainant has continuously conducted
its business in Chicago at the office and under the above stated
name; that ever since its coming to Chicago it has received
through the post office a large amount of mail matter addressed to it by simply its name.
The bill further alleges that the defendant, the "Central
Trust Company of Illinois," is a corporation chartered by the
State of Illinois on or about July, 1902, and engaged in a general banking and trust business at No. 142 Monroe street, in

CENTRAL TRUST CO. v. CENTRAL TRUST CO. 253
216 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Chicago; that its first place of business was at the corner of
Dearborn and Monroe streets, but about the beginning of the
year 1906 it removed to No. 142 Monroe street, where it has
ever since remained.,
The bill still further alleges that from 1897 to 1901 the name
of complainant appeared in the Lakeside directory, a directory
of general circulation in Chicago and recognized as a reliable
and authoritative publication; that while its name was omitted
from the directory for 1902, the omission was due to a mere
error by the publishers of the directory, and was through no
fault of the complainant; that said directory for 1902 was not
published and issued until after defendant; the Central Trust
Company of Illinois, had filed its articles of incorporation.
It also appears- that complaint having been made to the
Postmaster General of the action of the postmaster at Chicago
in reference to the delivery of the mail received at Chicago, an
order was made by the First Assistant Postmaster General
in these words:
"January 10, 1903.
"The Postmaster, Chicago, 11'.:
"Sir: I am in receipt of information to the effect that a letter
was delivered to Mr. Pfau, a representative of the Central
Trust Company of South Dakota, which contained remittances
intended to protect checks drawn on the Central Trust Company of Illinois; that Mr. Pfau, instead of returning the letter
promptly to the post office for delivery to the Trust Company
for which it was intended, returned it to the sender, thereby
jeopardizing his credit. Mr. Pfau well knew, that the deposit
was intended for the Central Trust Com)pany of Illinois.
"You are hereby directed to deliver mail addressed 'Central
Trust Co., Chicago, Ill.,' without the addition of the street, box
or other designation to indicate that it is intended for the
South Dakota Company, to the Central Trust Company of
Illinois, and request that company to return to you promptly
for delivery to the Central Trust Company of South Dakota all

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Appellant.

216 U. S.

letters falling into their hands intended for the company represented by Mr. Pfau.
Very respectfully,
(Signed) R. J. WYNNE,
First Assistant PostmasterGeneral."
The prayer of the bill is that the defendant Busse be restrained "from delivering mail addressed 'Central Trust Cornpany' without the street address of this complainant thereon,
or some other mark thereon indicating for whom the same is
intended, or with the street address 'corner of La Salle and
Monroe streets,' to the defendant Central Trust Company of
Illinois," and restraining the Central Trust Company of Illinois
and its cashier, the defendant William R. Dawes, from receiving and opening said mail so described.
Mr. W. H. Sears, with whom Mr. Daniel McCaskill and
Mr. 0. L. McCaskill were on the brief, for appellant:
The decision of the Postmaster General giving the mail in
controversy to the Central Trust Company of Illinois is reviewable by this court. The act is ministerial in character.
If the act were official, requiring the exercise of judgment
and discretion, the decisions would be final and not reviewable
*by the courts. If, on the other hand, it is ministerial in character, he may be compelled to perform it. Kendall v. United
States, 12 Pet. 524, 614; New Orleans Bank v. Merchant, 18
Fed. Rep. 841, 850; Mississippi v. Johnson, 4 Wall. 475, 488;
Teal v. Fenton, 12 How. 284, 291.
This obligation is recognized in the postal regulations, and
provision is made for complying with the decrees of court concerning the delivery of mail. Postal Laws and Reg., 1902,
§ 653, p. 313; and see Nat'l Life Ins. Co. v. Nat'l Life Ins. Co.,
209 U' S. 317.,
In this case not only is all of the mail addressed in the name
of appellant, but part of it has the street number of appellant
on it. The postmaster has no right to open the mail or au-

CENTRAL TRUST CO. v. CENTRAL TRUST CO. 255
216 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

thorize others to open it to ascertain its c6ntents. By so doing
he subjects himself to a penalty. In re Jackson,-96'U. S. 727,
733; United States v. Mathias, 36 Fed. Rep. 892, 896; United
States v. Eddy, 1 Bissel, 227, 228.
All the postmaster has a right to-do under the law in determining-for whom mail is intended is to look-at the cover of
the mail. The postmaster is no more at liberty to act upon
mere guesses or sdrmises than a private agent. The rule that
the discretion of an executive officer will not be disturbed presupposes that information upon the matter upon which judgment and discretion are invoked is presented to the officer for
consideration, or that knowledge respecting them is possessed
by him. United States v. Barlow, 132 U. S. 280; School of Magnetic Healing v. McAnulty, 187 U. S. 94, 107, 109.
Where the act of a head of a department is beyond the scope
of his authority such act is subject to review by the courts and
any person who will sustain injury by such act may enjoin it.
Noble v. Union River Logging R. R., 147 U. S. 165, 171,. 172;
Board of Liquidation v. McComb, 92 U. S. 531, 541; Public
ClearingHouse v. Coyne, 194 U. S. 497, 509; Bates & Guild Co.
v. Payne, 194 U. S. 106, 108; Brown v. United States, 9 How.
487; Payne v. Nat'l Ry. Pub. Co., 20 App. D. C. 581..
The Post Office Departmentcannot act arbitrarily and do as
it likes with the mail. If it has any right to refuse to accept
or to refuse to deliver mail except ,to the addressee that right
must come from some law of Congress. School of Magnetic
Healing v. A'itAnulty, 187 U. S. 94, 109. The Postmaster
General can exclude letters from the mail only where the mail
is being used for certain prohibited purposes, LXI where the
mail matter isobscene, 25 Stat. 187, 496, or where the letters
concern lotteries, gift enterprise6 and schemes to defraud and
obtaip money by fdlse pretenses. Rev. Stat., § 3894. Congress has also authorized the Postmaster General to classify
the mail matter, and he may refuse to carry mail except under
its proper class. Houghton v. Payne, 194 U. S.88. In no other
case has any authority been given him to exclude or to refuse

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Argument for Appellant.

216 U. S.

to deliver mail except to the.addressee. Under §§ 3890, 3892,
Rev. Stat., however, he must deliver the mail to the addressee.
Appellant's failure to file its certificate of incorporation does
not affect the issues of this case. The law requiring certificates
to be filed was not passed until after appellant had established
its office, and subsequently appellant complied with all the requirements' of this law. 4 Starr & Curtiss' Ill. Rev. Stat., 310.
The state statute does not say a foreign corporation shall be
deprived of all rights'to its mail until it files its charter, and if it
did it would be assuming powors which belong to the Federal
Government alone. A State may forbid a foreign corporation
to do business within its boundaries, but it cannot forbid it the
right of the mails. As to what is doing business see Bradbury
v. Waukeqran & Wfashington MJ.Co., 113 ]11.
App. 600, 607;
Boardiman v. S. S. McClure Co., 123 Fed. Rep. 614; Caldwell
v. North Carolina, 181 U. S.. 622; Thompson on Corpora.tions,
§ 7936.
Where a foreign corporation makes a contract within a State
before filing its articles of incorporation and subsequently
files its articles the contract may be enforced; the remedy is
merely suspended until the law has been complied with. 7
Am. & Eng. Enc. of Law, 2d ed-., 875-876; Caesar v. Capell, 83
Fed. Rep. 403, 423; Wood Mowing Co. v. CaldweU1, 34 Indiana,

270, 281; Carson-Rand Co. v. Stern, 129 Missouri, 381; Nei.chatel Asphalt Co. v. Mayor, 155 N, Y. 373; Berler v. German
Mut. Fire Ins. Co., 68 Indiana, 347, 355; Crefeld MillT v. Goddard, 69 Fed. Rep. 141, 142.
These cases take a somewhat different vivw from (Jniled
States Lead Co. v. Elevator 1ifr
1 . Co., 222 Illinois, 199, where
such a contr( t was hel void b initio, antd sve Ottoman C,.
v. I)ane, 95. Illinois, 203; Grand Lodge v. (,raham, 96 Iowa, 592.
The courts of Illinois have held in nunier'is cases that
where there is a valid corporation law, and a user by a corporation of the powers intended to be granted by the corporation
law, a mere failure to file articles of incorporation with the
Secretary of State, or otherwise comply with some of the statu-

CENTRAL TRUST CO. v. CENTRAL TRUST CO. 257
216 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

tory regulations, cannot be taken advantage of by third par,ties collaterally. The corporation is held to have a defacto ex-istence of which it can be dep!'ived only in a direct proceeding
by the State. Tarbell v. Page, 24 Illinois, 46, 48; Thompson
v. Candor,60 Illinois, 244, 247, 248; Cin., LaF. & Chi. R. R. Co.
v. D. & V. Ry. Co., 75 Illinois, 113, 116; The People ex rel. v.
Trustees of Schools, 111 Illinois, 171, 173; Hudson v. Green Hill
Seminary, 113 Illinois, 618, 624.
Numerous States have passed laws making it essential for
foreign corporations to file their articles of incorporation to
hold real estate within the State. But where the corporations
have purchased lands within those S(ates before filing their
articles it was held that the State alone could take advantage
of their failure. No other corporation could preempt.the land
or confiscate it to its own use on the theory that it was not
owned by the foreign corporation. The latter could pass good
title to land so taken and held by it, and could maintain an
action for trespass upon it. Seymore v. Slide & Spur Gold
Mines, 153 U. S. 523; Fritts v. Palmer, 132 U. S. 282, 291;
Whitman Mining Co. v. Baker, 3 Nevada, 386; Carlow v. Aytltman, 28 Nebraska, 672, 676; Sherwobo v. Alvis, 83 Alabama,
115.
Where a State requires registration by a foreign corporation
doing business within the State, and imposes a penalty for
noncompliance with the statute, it shows that, in the mind of
the state legislature, the penalty is sufficient to accomplish the
desired result, and is exclusive of all other remedies. Cases
supra, and Sherwood v. Alvis, 83 Alabama, 115, 119; State Mut.
Ins. Assoc. v. Brinkley Co., 61 Arkansas, 1, 6; Kindel v. Beck
LithographingCo., 19 Colorado, 310, 314; Union Mut. Ins. Co.
v. McMillen, 24 Ohio St. 67, 79; Garrott Ford Co. v. Vermont
Mfg. ,Co., 20 R. L. 187, 189; Toledo Tie Co. v. Thomas, 33 W.
Va. 566, 570.
Mr. Max Pam, with whom Mr. Stephen A. Day Was on the
brief, for appellee:
VOL. ccxvi-17

OCTOBER TERM; 1909.
Argument for Appellee.

216 U. S.

First: Yhe name "Central Trust Company" so designates
appellee as to just ify the postmaster in making delivery to appellee of mail so addressed.
The proposition that a corporation cannot be designated,
known by and receive letters, conveyances or grants unless its
corporate name is in all respects fully and accurately set forth
is untenable. Chadsey v. McCreery, 27 Illinois, 253; Board of
Education v. Greenebaum S'ons, 39 Illinois, 609 ;,Clement v. City
of Lathrop, 18 Fed. Rep. 885 7 Am. & Eng. Enc. of Law, 2d
ed., p. 687; Cl. 10, § 634, Postal Reg. of 1902, applies to corporations as well as individuals.Thexights of the appellee to the use of the name in question
were prior to those of the appellant.'
Appdllant concedes that it did not comply with the statute
requiring it to file its certificate, Supp. (1902), Starr & Curtiss,
Ann. Stat. Ill., Ch. 32, Par. 52, 53, 54, until'after the incorporation of the appellec; as to effect of this, see Hurd's kev.
Stat. Ill., Ch. 32, §§ 28, 50; Illinois Watch Case Co. v. Pearson,
140 Illinois; 423, 429.
Appellant does not come into court with clean hands; it has
been guilty of such unconscionable conluct in that respect,
and so decided by the Post Office Department, as to debar it of
any relief in a court of equity.
Appellee is entitled to have iiiail so addressed delivered4o
it in the first iiistaiiec under the laws and regulations of the
Post Office Department.
Postal regulations promulgated by the P~ostmaster General
under aufhority of ai act of Congress have the force of law of
which the courts mnust take judicial notice.
The Post Office Department has decided the question in controversy and the court will neither overturn such decision nor
interfere with the dis(:retion of the (lepartment. Appleby v.
Cluss, 160 F(-d. Rep. 984; Nat'l Life Ins. Co. v. Nat'l Life In..
Co.,. 209 U. S. 541; and see also United States v. Hitchcock, 190
U. S. 698.
Appellant has misconceived its remedy. It is not entitled to

'CENTRAL TRUST CO. v.CENTRAL TRUST CO. 259
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

injunction. In no event could it be entitled to any relief except that of mandamus.
MR. Jus IcE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The management of the great post office business of the
country is placed in the hands of the Postmaster Geneial and
assistants. RevStat., §§388, 389, 396. In the discharge of
his duties as Postmaster General he-has assigned to the First
-Assistant Postmaster General "the preparation of decisions as
to delivery of ordinary mail, the ownership of which is in dispute." Postal Laws and Regulations, 1902, § 17, par. 9. Thb
question here presented is whether the First Assistant Postmaster General, having directed the postmaster at Chicago to
deliver to the "Central Trust Company of Illinois," defendant
herein, mail-matter addressed "Central Trust Company, Chicago, Ill.," without any further designation of the party for
whom it was intended, the courts are, upon the facts as presented, justified in setting aside that order and directing the
delivery of such mail to the complainant. It is not always
easy to determine for whom a letter isintended. In furtherance of the effort to secure delivery of mail-matter to the proper
party, pars. 3 and 4, § 634, and pars. 4 and 5, § 645, of Postal
Lawrs and Regulations provide:
"SEC. 634, Par. 3. When a postmaster is in doubt as to the
identity of the addressee, he. may require proof, and should
exercise great care, especially where mail matter appears to be
of value, to make proper delivery.
"Par. 4. Where two or more persons of the same name receive mail at the same office the postmaster shQuld advise
them to adopt some address or means by which their mail may
be distinguished. Postmasters will deliver such matter according to their best judgment, and will not return it to the mailing
office for better description of the addressee until, after inquiry, they are unable to determine to whom it should be delivered."

OC'1'CiIA

ERSI, 1.909.

Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

"SEC. 645, Par. 4. Attempts to secure the mail of an'established house, firm, or corporation through the adoption of a
similar name should not be recognized. Where disputes arise
between individuals, firms,,,or corporations as to the use of a
name br designiation, matter addressed to a street, number, or
building should be delivered according to such address. When
not so addressed, the mail will be delivered to the firm or
corporation which first adopted the name of the address at
,that place.
"Par. 5. When in doubt as to the firm or corporation for
which any mail matter is intended, and claim therefor is disputed, postmasters will withhold delivery and report the facts
and any statements made by either claimant to the First As" sistant Postmaster General; for advice."
Appellant contends that its legal name is "Central Trust
Company" while the legal name of defendant is "Central Trust
Company of Illinois.;" that, therefore, it has a right to have
mail directed to "Cefitral Trust Company, Chicago," without
further designatiofi, delivered to it rather than to defendant.
The argument primarily is that every corporation is entitled
to the legal benefit of its own name; that when that name appears on mail-matter as the party addressed, and nothing else
is shown, the postmaster has simply the ministerial duty of
making a delivery to that corporation, and that a failure to
discharge this ministerial duty can be corrected by the
courts.
While in a certain sense it is true that the benefit of one's
legal narne belongs to every party, individual or,corporation,
yet thaf -may not be the' name by which it is customarily
known or addressed, and of course the object is and must be
to deliver the mail-matter to the party for whom it is intended.
In the determination of this it may often be necessary to look
beyond the exact legal name. Many things may have to be
considered, and the action of an officer charged with that
(uty ishould not lightly be disturbed by the courts, and only
when it is clear that. a mistake has been Made or a wrong

CENTRAL TRUST CO. v. CENTRAL TRUST CO. 261
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

done. Initials are often used, abbreviations made, words left
out. The number of letters delivered to the respective parties
and the disposition made by each of those received may cast
some light upon the question, for while a party for whom a
single letter is intended has a right to receive it, yet the number of letters, taken in connection with the amount of business
apparently done by the recipient, may well suggest for whom
any given letter was intended, and the action taken by the
recipient, when as here each knows of the existence of the
other, may show its good or bad faith in dealing with the post
office. So also the .character of the business done may be
considered. Where a corporation is engaged in the banking
business letters from other banks will point to it as the intended recipient, while if it is a real estate corporation letters
from real estate firms will indicate differently. And so we
might go on and- mention, other things which, while by no
means conclusive, tend' to throw light on the matter.
We have had occasion to consider the effect of findings of
fact by officers in charge of the several departments of government, and the accepted rule is that those findings are conclusive, unless palpable error appears. Bates & Guild Co. v.
Payne, 194 U. S. 106, and cases cited in the opinion; United
States ex. rel. Parish v. MacVeagh, Secretary, &c., 214 U. S.
124, 131. In National Life Insurance Company v. National,
Life Insurance Company, 209 U. S. '317,it appeared that the
Post Office Department had made a special order in reference
to the delivery of mail, and the court was asked to correct
that order. In denying this application the court, by Mr.
Justice Peckham, said (p. 325):
"The appeal made by the complainant to the department
was really nothing but an appeal to its discretion. .
.
Assuming that the court in some cases has the power to, in
effect, review the determination of the department, we do not
think this is an occasion for its exercise. The complainant
is really appealing from the discretion of the department to
the discretion of the court, and the complainant has no clear

. 262

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Syllabus..

216 U. S.

legal right to obtain the orlder sought.. See Bates & Guild Co.
v. Payne, 194 U. S. 106, 108.
"A court in such case ought n6t to interfere in the administration of a great department like that of the Post Office by
,an injuriction, which directs the department how to conduct
the business thereof, where the party asking for the injunction
has no clear right to it."
We do not deem it necessary to consider other questions
discussed by counsel, for, upon the facts presented and for
the reasons stated, we are of opinion that there is not enough
to show such clear right in the complainant as justifies the
setting' aside-of the order of the First Assistant Postmaster
General.
The deciee is, therefore,
Affirmed.

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. STATE OF
KANSAS EX REL. RAILROAD COMMISSIONERS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.

No. 38. Argued .November 30, 1909.-Decided February 21, 1910.

The fact that a railroad company is chartered by another State and
has projected its lines through several States does not make all of
its business interstate commerce -and render unconstitutional, as
an interference with, and burden upon interstate commerce, reasonable regulations of a State Railroad Commission applicable to a
portion of the lines wholly within, and which are valid under, the
laws of that State.
Qua.re whether on writ of error where the constitutional question is
whethdr a rate or duty prescribed by a state commission amounts
to deprivation of property without due process of law, this court is
bound by a finding of the state court that a rate or duty is not,
actually confiscatory.
There is a difference between 'the exertion of the legislative power
to establish rates in such a manner as to confiscate the property
of a public service corporation by fixing them below a remunerative

