OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

STARKWEATHER v. JENNER.
AII'AL FIOM THE COIRT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
C:OLUtMIiA.

No. 114.

Argued January 28, 1910-Decided February 28, 1910.

In this case the charges of fraud and collusion on the part of the defendants axe wholly unsupported.

The rule that equity may convert into a trustee a co-tenrant who
attempts to buy an outstanding hostile title does not apply where
the common property is sold at bona fide public sale under legal
process or power in a trust (Iced. At such a sale, and in the absence
of fraud or deceit, any.one of the co-tenants is as free to buy as any
of the general public, and several of the co-tenants may combine
without notice to the others to purchase for themselves.
A judicial sale for inadequate price resulting from combination of
bidders is voidable, not void, and one who would complain must
after discovery seasonably elect whether he will avoid it or not.
A delay of four years where the property is of speculative character
an(l has largely increased in value ineanwhile is unreasonable.
27 App. 1). C. 34S, affirmed.

TnE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Richard P..Evans for ppellant.
Mr. B. F. Leighton, with whom Mr. R. Golden. Donaldson
was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE LURToN delivered the opinion of the court.

The appellant, George B. Starkweather, was the owner of
a parcel of unimproved land known as the Crescent Heights,
in Washington, D. C., composed of two contiguous lots, one
of seven and the other of three acres. In January, 1892,
pursuant to a plan arranged between himself and certain
persons associated with him, and styled herein tile syndicate,

STARKWEATHER v. JENNER.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

he conveyed this tract to defendants Croissant and Johnson,
as trustees, for the benefit of the persons who should contribute to the purchase price, as tenants in common, in the
share and proportion in which they respectively contributed,
with power to control, manage, lease, sell and convey, in
their discretion, as should be desirable or advantageous to
the l)arties interested. Those contributing or proposing to
contribute agreed among themselves, by a separate paper,
that the price, including the discharge of incumbrances rest-.
ing upon the property, should be $75,000, divided into shares
of $2,500 each, and each person accordingly 'subscribed for
such number of shares as they elceted to take, agreeing that
Croissant and Johnson should represent them as trustees in
the purchase, with full power to manage, sell and convey,
receiving a commission for their service. Among those so
contributing originally, or by substitution, were the trustees
Croissant and Johnson, the appellant Starkwcather, who was
to receive, and did take, eleven shares , fully paid up, as and
for part of the purchase price, and the appellee Jenner, who
ultimately came to own four of such shares. The full number
of thirty shares contemplated were never subscribed, six
remaining unsold in the hands of the trustees. This fact, from
whatever cause, seems to have led to the inability of the
syndicate to pay off the incumbrances which were to be
assumed and paid off as part 'of the price. Among these
incumbrances -were several deeds in trust or mortgages securing obligations of the vendor appellant.
The certificates to subscribers were issued by Croissant and
Johnson, and recited, among other things, that they.lield the
property in trust, and that the holder was a contributor to
the purchase price.to the extent of $2,500, and the owner
of an undivided one-thirtieth interest, and that such interest
"shall at all times be subject to assessment for its proportionate part of money necessary to pay expenses incurred
in the execution of the trusts as provided in the deed to said
trustee,
'and in default of such payment the said

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Court.
Opinion of tile

216 U. S.

are hereby authorized to sell the intrest
trustees . .
of such person so in default," etc.
Out of the money paid in by the subscribers a part was
used by the trustees in paying off incumbrances, keeping
down interest and in other expenses, but something like
,eleven thousand dollars was paid over in money to or on
account of the vendor Starkweather.
Among the trusts upon the property was a deed in trust
upon the seven-acre parcel to the appellees, Duval and Cole,
as trustees, to secure ali obligation created by Starkweather
for $7,553.34 to a Mr. Gaither, executed January 29, 1889,
and maturing in four years. In 1893 this debt matured.
By agreement the enforcement of the trust was postponed
upon payment of interest. But, finally, there was a default
and a sale directed by Gaither. The property was, accordingly, advertised by the trustees and sold at public outcry in
1897 and bid in by one Ricker, acting for and as agent of the
appellant. The time for complying with the sale by Ricker
was extended upon the payment by appellant of 1$300 for
each of two extensions. Default-in complying with the terms
of sale was, however, again made, and the property readvertised. Appellant attempted to forbid such resale, and filed
a bill for that purpose, which was not dismissed until February, 1898, when the property was again advertised and
offered for sale by Duval and Cole, the trustees, and knocked
down to one Silver, acting as an agent for Starkweather.
The terms of this second sale were not complied with, and the
property was at once recried apd sold to the appellee Jenner
for $17,100, acting, as it turned out, for himself and certain,
others, vho, like Jenner, were members of the original purchasing syndicate, or holders of certificates acquired later
from those who were. Jenner complied with the terms of sale
and paid the full purchase money and accepted a deed from
the trustees. After paying off the Gaither debt the remainder
of the price paid by Jenner was distributed to other lienors,
under a bill in equity filed for that purpose, under which final

STARKWEATHER v. JENNER.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

decrees have long since been made and the trustees exonerated.
The object of the present bill is to set aside this deed by
Duval and Cole to the appellee Jenner, and revest the title in
Croissant and Johnson as trustees for the syndicate; or, in the
alternative, declare Jenner a trustee holding the seven-acre
parcel, after his reimbursement, for the benefit of the syndicate
subscribers.
The charges of the bill abound in accusations of fraudulent
collusion between Jenner and the other appellees to bring
this seven-acre lot to sale under the Duval and Cole trust,
and thereby the elimination of appellant as the largest holder
of certificates in the syndicate. It is among other things
said that Croissant and Johnson wilfully suffered a default.
That they had certificates unsold and money in their hands
and power to. assess the members'of the syndicate to raise
means to pay off the incumbrance and thus save the property
for the benefit of all concerned; but had wilfully and collusively let the property be brought to sale, and in fact, persuaded Gaither or his trustees to proceed under the trust.
These charges of collusion or fraudulent conduct upon the
pait of either Gaither, the creditor, or his trustees, Duval
and Cole, -are utterly unsupported. Their course was from
beginning to end, so far as this record shows, dictated by
prudent business conduct, and great consideration for apl)ellant in his natural desire to prevent an enforcement of the
trust. So far as Croissant and Johnson are concerned, it is
not shown that they had in any way colluded with either .the
creditor, his trustees, or with the purchaser at the Duval and
Cole sale, or that they had the slightest interest in the acquisition. of this seven-acre tract by Jenner or his ass6ciatcs.
They are not shown to have misapplied the funds of the
syndicate, or to have had any funds with which to meet and
pay off either the principal or interest of the Gaither debt.
That they did not assess the shareholders, as they might
have, done under the terms- of the trust to raise money to

OCTO BEI

TRM10,

1909.

Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

pay off this a11d other icumlbraiuies, is true. Their excuse
is that most; of tile members could not pay or be made to pay
and that all were unwillipg to.pay. That a sale of their certificates. would have been itavailiig, as it would have been only
to sell the Property sibject to heavy iticunhrances, and a sale
of a mere eq uity. But whether they were dereliet or not, t.h(.,y
ale not showi to have a('ted in collusion with either (Thither
his lruste(es, (r with .Ieniller ald(1 Itt'clsi
g associates.
But it is 'Slid.that ,lciter's relatioli as tenant il .oniioll
to 'll)l)elalit aiid those associated withIi hii as oVne!r of ile
Iprope,'rty .hl to ipay off this parailtoilit lien, forbid his
iur .hase. That t hre is such a coninimuity of iulterest htweeti those wh,, holdi
coiifl1oi title as to forbid one such.
co-tenant from ac(luirilig aily ben(efit from the aluisitoll
of iln
outstaldlig sulperior title,. is utndeti hle. That at court
of eqluity Uioli timely ap)llicatiol will (olivrt suoh a iuliasilig teliatit itito a trustee for the coiiiot

beliefit, is true.

The doctriie is colsidered aid ap)l)lied in IolhwnclI v. I)cwce,,
2 Black, (il3, and Twurer v. Sawryer, 150 U. S. 578. •For
much the same reason one temt may not 1hol adversely
the commion property against another, though lie may do so,
if he act openly, and, ill
that event, the statute will run in
his favor. Elder v. McCla.key, 70 Fed. Rep. 529, 542.
But it is plain that the principle which turns a co-tenant
itto a trustee who buys for himself a hostile outstanding title,
can have no proper application to a public sale (f the, conmon pi*ol)erty, either uider legal process or a plower in a
trust deed. In such a situation, the sale not being ill any wise
the result of collusion nor subject to the control of such a
bidder, he is as free, all deeei and fraud out of the way, as
any one of the general public.
Even a trustee has been held competent to purchase the
trust property at a judicial sale, which he has, no interest in,
nor any part in bringing about, and which sale he in no way
controls. Twin Lick Oil Company v. Marbury, 91 U. S. 587;
Allen v. Gillette, 127 U. S. 589.

STARKWEATHER v. JENNER.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

But it is said that if there is no absolute prohibition upon
one co-owner buying at an open sale of the common property
to satisfy a mortgage or other incumbrance thereon, that at
least the fiduciary character and common interest due to such
a cotenancy require of one who buys the utmost fairness of
conduct. Concede this. It is then said, that Jenner at the
bidding held a power of attorney from three others of the
syndicate members, by which he was to bid the property in
for their mutual benefit at the lowest price possible, and at a
price not exceeding $24,000. That he held this power of
attorney and had undertaken to buy at as low a price as
possible was not known to appellant and that this "secret
combination," as it is styled' and designated, was a fraud
upon him. It is plain from the facts of this case that the
scheme for exploiting this Crescent Heights property, according to the agreement exhibited- by the share certificates, had
practically collapsed, and that for the want of means and
harmony among the owners there was-no practical way of
clearing the property from incumbrances, which had turned
out to be about $39,000, a sum larger than seems to have been
originally supposed. There was nothing left but for the
members of the syndicate to put their hands into their own
pockets and put in a large additional sum or let the incumbrances be enforced. This latter is just what happened. In
such circumstances it was plainly the right of each one to
take care of himself, and if he saw fit to buy at the trust sale on
the chance of making something, he was free to do so, proyidcd only he took no undue or unfair advantage of his co,owners, and observed the rules concerning fairness at such a
sale which prevails in any circumstances. If two or more of
those who had been concerned should choose to unite their
fortune in a new purchase, there was no principle of law or
morals to forbid. That they should agree to buy at the best
price obtainable was their right, if they might bvty at all,
provided they resorted to no artifice to deter others from
bidding. Pewabic Mining Co. -v. Mason, 145 U. S. 349.
VOL.. ccxVi-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

•Mr. Jeniier's attitude at the sale was that of an open bidder
acting in his own interest, and necessarily in opposition to
that of the appellee and other cotenants. There were others
pi'esent at the sale bidding against him, and chief among
them was tile appellant himself, who, although lie says he
intended to give the syndicate the benefit of his purchase,
said nothing of it, and seemingly sought to secure himself as
best he could in the apparent wreck of the joint enterprise.
It was the misfortune of the appellafit that he forced the
bidding beyond the maximum price to which Jenner was
authorized to go, and then was unable to comply with the
terms of the sale. This resulted in an immediate reoffering
of the property, as was to be expected. That in this second
sale the property was knocked down for much less only shows
that the former price had been inflated by the competitioin
between these cotenants, each trying to save himself in the
same way. That the price at which ,Jenner bought was
probably several thousand dollars less than its then cstiinat(ed
market value, may be true. But it is also true that the l)'olJcrty was of a speculative character, a.nd at that time and for
some tinic later was difficult of sale and much depressed.
But this price was not so grossly inadequate as of itself to
justify relief, even if the bill had been promptly filed. That
sale was in February, 1898. This bill was filed in the sl)rin1g
of 1903. That appellant did not at the sale know that Jenner
was buying for himself and certain other of the syndicate
may be true, but he, confessedly, learned that fact when
Jenner and his associates fell out and the fact came to light
in a bill filed in December, 1898. At most, the sale was voidable, not void, and lie who would complain must seasonably
elect whether he will avoid it or not. Twin Lick Oil Co. v.
Marbury, 91. U. S. 587.
Appellant did not act with that degree of promptness which
equity demands. He has slumbered over the question of
whether he should elect to let Jenner hold on to' his purchase
or require him to give the benefit of his bargain to his co-

INTERSTATE COMM. COMM. v. D., L. & W. R. R. 531
216 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

tenants. A delay of not less than four years, during which
there has been'a large appreciation in the value of the property, is unreasonable. Two courts in succession have failed
to find ground for relief, and we-see no good reason for reversing the decree from which the appellant has appealed.
It is therefore
Affirmed.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. DELAWARE, LACKAWANNA AND WESTERN RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUITC.(OURT

()'V THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT 'i ()
No. 362.

NE\W

ORK.

Argued February 21, 23, 1910.-Decided March 7, 1910.

Where a statute creates a new right and a commission is given power
to extend relief it egard thereto at the instance of a specified (lass,
its power is limited thereto; and so held that the Interstate Comjmerce Commission has power to compel switch connections with
lateral branch roads under § I of the act of March 4, 1887, c. 104,
24 Stat. 379, as amended by § 1 of the act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591,
34 Stat. 584, only at the instance, as stated therein, of shippers; it
has no power to do so on the application of a branch railroad.
Quapre and not decided, whether the railroad on whose behalf 'the
application in this case was made was a lateral branch road within
the meaning of the statute.
166 Fed. Rep. 49 , affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
The Solicitor General for appellant:
Congress had power to require connecting tracks to be
installed. The power of Congress to regulate interstate
commerce is as broad in its scope as the power of -the States

