WOODSIDE v. BECKHAM.
216 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

"II. Have the respective District Courts of the United
States sitting in bankruptcy ancillary jurisdiction to make
orders and issue process in aid of proceedings pending and
being administered in the District Court of another district?"
On the authority of Babbitt, Trustee, v. Dutcher, just decided, ante, p. 102, we answer both questions in the affirniative, and it will be
So certified.

WOODSIDE v. BECKHAM.1
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN I)ISTRIC'I OF IOWA.

No. 56.

Argued December 9, 1909.-Decided February 21, 1910.

Where a plaintiff sues as assignee of several claims, but is not in fact
the owner of all the claims sued upon, and none of the claims is
sufficient in amount to confer jurisdiction on the Federal court,

that court has no jurisdiction and should dismiss the case for that
reason although the assigned claims may in the aggregate exceed
the jurisdictional amount.
142 Fed. Rep. 167, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. John R. Smith, with whom Mr. Hartley B. Woods was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The Circuit Court had jurisdiction. The judgments against
the corporation on which the bill is based were, valid under
the state law and the assignee had title to all the judgments
and could maintain an action against the directors therefor as
in the aggregate the claims exceeded $2,000. Bowden v.
Burnham, 59 Fed. Rep. 752; Chase v. Sheldon Roller-Mills, 56

'Original docket title: Woodside v. Vasey. December 9, 1909.
Suggestion of death of Vasey and substitution of Beckham.

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

Fed. Rep. 625; Bushnell v. Kennedy, 9 Wall. 387; Holmes v.
Goldsmith, 147 U. S. 150; Bergman v. Inman, 91 Fed. Rep. 293;
Tennent Siribling Co. v. Roper, 94 Fed. Rep. 739; Brigham v.
Gro,.;s, 107 Fed. Rep. 769; Huff v. Bidwell, 151 Fed. Rep. 563.
Mr. .1. IV. Jamison, with whom Mr. R. J. Williamson and
Mr. J. N. Hughes were on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE

FULiEt delivered the opinion of the

court.
This was an action to recover of defendants, as directors of
the Neptune Mining Compaffy, a Colorado corporation, the
sum of $5,500 as the aggregate amount of claims or demands
of the plaintiff and of thirty other persons, firms or corporations against the mining company, which had been assigned
to the plaintiff.
The liability was asserted to arise under the requirement of
the act of April 6, 1901, of Colorado, which required annual
reports to be filed by all corporations with -the Secretary of
State for Colorado within sixty days after the first day of January in each year as to matters designated in the statute, and
which provided: "If any uch corporation shall fail, refuse
or omit to file the annual report aforesaid, and to pay the fee
prescribed therefor within the time above prescribed, all the
officers and directors of said corporation shall be jointly and
severally and individually liable for all debts of such corporation, joint stock company or association that shall be contracted during the year next preceding the time when sueh
reports should by this section have been made and filed, and
until such report shall be made and filed." And it was averred
that no annual report was filed by or for said corporation, the
Neptune Mining Company, within sixty (lays from an(l after
January 1, 1903.
The co nplaint set out the various items of indebtedness ine.mre,d I)y the mnining company, which, it was alleged, had been

WOODSIDE v. BECKHAM.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

assigned to William Woodside for collection only, with the
agreement that each of the several assignors should remain
the absolute owner of his or their claims, and should contribute
his proportion of the expenses of collection of the same, including costs and attorney's fees, and it was agreed that the
said several assignors have ever since been and now are the exclusive owners of their several claims, and that said William
Woodside has no interest whatever in any of the claims so assigned.
The case coming on for trial, a jury was duly waived and the
cause subnitted to the court.
The court found that the plaintiff was not the owner of, or
the real party in interest in, any of the claims against the
mining, company that had been assigned to him; that the
amount of his own claim against the company was only
$162.36; and that the amount of none of the separate claims of
the others assigned to him exceeded $650, while some were less
than $100; that the claims other than his own were assigned
to plaintiff for the purpose of collection only; that he paid no
consideration therefor, and that said assigned claims or demands in fact remained the property of the different assignors
thereof, who were paying pro rata the expenses of prosecuting
the action; that if plaintiff recovered upon the claims from defendants the amount of uch recovery above the plaintiff's
individual claim would be for the benefit of the several assignors thereof and would be distributed to them in proportion
to the amount of the claim of each; that the several claims
other than that of the plaintiff were assigned to him by the different owners thereof to be added to the amount of plaintiff's
claim to create an amount in excess of $2,000 for the express
purpose of ena)ling the, plaintiff to sue thereon in the Circuit
Court.
It also appeared that in 1903 plaintiff recovered judgment in
the District Court of Custer County, Colorado, against the
Neptune Mining Company for the amount of.his own claim,
to wit, $162.36,- and a part of the other claims so assigned to

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

him, the judgment being for the sum of $2,724.46, and the
items on which suit was brought being set forth in the present
complaint.
The Circuit Court, in its opinion, quoted the evidence of the
plaintiff as to his interest in or right to the assigned claims,
upon which he sued in the action, as follows:
After stating that his own claim against the Neptune Mining
Company was $162.36, he said:
"'The assignments of the accounts to me, and of the judgment aside from my personal account, were made to me for the
sole purpose of beginning suit in my name, and to thus save expenses. I have no interest in any of said claims or judgments
except my individual claim. The actual ownership of the said
judgment and the proceeds thereon, and the accounts and the
proceeds thereof, belong to the several assignors, and I am to
account to them and to pay them such proceeds in case I collect them.'"
And the Circuit Court held that as none of the claims or demands so assigned were of sufficient amount to authorize an
action thereon in a court of the United States, it was clear that
this action could not be maintained in the Circuit Court, and it
was accordingly dismissed without prejudice for want of jurisdiction, and at the plaintiff's costs. American Can Co. V.
Morris, 142 Fed. Rep. 167.
Thereupon the court certified that the order of dismissal
was based solely on the ground that the cause did not involve
a controversy within the jurisdiction of the court, for the
reasons stated in the opinion filed in the case, which opinion
was by the terms of the certificate made a part of the record
and directed to be certified and sent up as uch.
The Circuit Court cited many cases decided in this court to
sustain the proposition that where a plaintiff is not in fact the
owner of the claims sued upon and none of the claims assigned
is sufficient in amount to confer jurisdiction upon the Federal
court, it has no jurisdiction and -will dismiss the case for that
reason.

WOODSIDE v. BECKHAM.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Thus in Bernards Township v. Stebbins, 109 U. S. 341, 355, it
was said:
"The decision in Williams v. Nottawa, 104 U. S. 209, establishes that the Circuit Court of the United States cannot, since
the act of 1875, entertain a suit upon municipal bonds payable
to bearer, the real owners of which have transferred them to
the plaintiffs of record for the sole purpose of suing thereon in
the courts of the United States for the benefit of such ow¢ners,
who could not have sued there in their own names, -either by
reason of their being citizens of the same State as the defendant, or by reason of the insufficient value of their claims."
And so in Waite v. Santa Cruz, 184 U. S. 302, 328, this court
quoted § 5 of the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 470,
472, and said:
"We adjudge that, as the plaintiff does not own the bonds
or coupons in suit, but holds them for collection only, the Circuit Court was without jurisdiction to render judgment upon
any claim or claims, whether bonds or coupons, held by a single
person, firm or corporation against the city and which, considered apart from the claim or claims of other owners, could
not have been sued on by the real owner by reason of the insufficiency of the amount of such claim or claims."
And see Crauford v. Neal, 144 U. S. 585, 593, and cases
cited.
That rule is decisive in this case, and the judgment of the
Circuit Court is
Affirmed.

