OUTOI3Hl,;I

372

I

,lOi).
w

Opinion of the Court.

UNITE)

216 U. S.

STA'PES v. PLOWMAN.

ERROR TO THlE CIRCUIT

COURT OF API'EALS

FOR TIff, NINTH

CIRCUIT.

No. 96.

Argued January 20, 21, 1910.-Decided February 21, 1910.

Thie authority for cutting timber from the public domain under the
act of June 3, 1878, c. 150, 20 Stat. 8'8, extends only to lands valuable
for minerals and not to lands adjacent thereto and not actually
valuable for minerals.
Although the pupose of a statute may be def6ated by its

ialifica-

tions, courts, in construing it, are bound by words that are explicit
and .unmistakable in meaning.
151 Fed. Rep. 1022, reversed.

TH

facts are stated in the

opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Harr for the United States.
There was no appearance or brief filed for defendant in
error.,
MR. JUSTICiE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
-This is an action to recover the ,value of timber cut fiom
the public domain in Idaho. The defendant justifies under
the act of June 3, 1878, c. 150. 20 Stat. 88, That act au-.
thorizes citizens of the Uni'ited States and other persons, bona
fide residents of certain, States and Territories' iicluding
Idaho, "and all other mineral districts of the United States,"
to cut "for building, agricultural, mining, or other domestic
purposes, any timber or otlher trees growing or being on the
public lands, such lands being mineral, and not subject to
entry under existing laws of the United States, except for
mineral eitl.ry" in the State, Territofy, or district of their
residence. This authority is given subjeetto regulation by
the Secretatry of the Interior for the protection of the timber

UNITED STATEs ?. PLOWMAN.
216 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and undergrowth, and is not given to railroads. The only
question before us-is how far the authority extends with
reference to the specific land upon which the wood is cut.
There was a trial by jury and the issue is exhibited sufficiently by a passage or two from the charge, and the itnstructions asked on behalf of the Government but refused. The
passages from the charge are as follows: "The law cannot be
construed to limit the cutting of timber simply to ground
that is known to cQntain mineral, or ground which'is or which
might be legally located as a mining claim." .. .
"The
law includes as mineral lands not only those traets in which
mineral has acttrally been discovered and which has been or
could be legally located as mining locations, but also all other
lands lying in reasonably close proximity to or in the general neighborhood of such known mineral tracts."
"Take, for instance, a large section of country.
There in the lower part of the map, as you will see, is a section of country about six miles square; the upper part indicates another section six miles square. We will suppose
now there is found here .and there in that section of country
mineral locations. They may not be contiguous; they may
even be some distance apart; but-you will be justified, under
the law as I have given it to you, in holding all that particular
section of country to be mineral ground."
"The
question for you to decide is not whether those little tracts
on that map there-the ground cut over by the defendantcontain mineral, but whether, that whole section of country
surrounding that for miles around is what may be denominated a mineral country. If you find it.is a mineral country
within the meaning of the- law as I have: defined it to you,
then your verdict must be for the defendaint." The Government asked for instructions that it was not sufficient to show
that the land in question was adjacent to lands valuable for
mineral purposes, but that the authority given b' the act
extended only to lands valuable for minerals. It is needless
to set them- forth at length. There was a verdict and .?udg-

OCTOBER TERM, 1909.
Opinion of the Court.

216 U. S.

ment for the defendant. The ruling and refusals were excepted to, but the exceptions Were overruled and the judgment affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, 151 Fed. Rep.
1022, S. C., St C. C. A.,682, on the authority of United States
v. 'Ba8ic Co., 121 Fed. Rep. 504, and United States v. Ross8xi,
133 Fed. Rep. 380. The case then was brought to this court.
The instructions appear to us to have paid too little regard
to the words of the act, defining the land on which it permits
timbenir to be cut as "mineral, and not subject to entry under
existing laws of the United States, except for mineral entry."
)Asws said in Northern Pacific R.R. Co. v. Lewis, 162 L. S.
366, 376, "The right to cut is exceptional and quite jierow,"
and the party claiming the right must prove it. The only
ands excluded in 1878 or now from any but mineral entry
are lands " valuable for minerals" or containing " valuable mineral deposits." Rev. Stats., §§ 2318, 2319, 2302. See § 2320.
The m'atter was much discussed in Davis v. Weibbold, 139
U. S. 507, and there it w as said that the exceptions of mineral
land from preemption and settlement, etc., "are not held to
exclude all lands in which minerals may be found, but only
those where the mineral is in sufficient quantity. to add to
their richness and to justify expenditure for its extraction,.
and known to be so at the date of the grant," p. 519. A Land
Department rule is qu6ted, with seeming approval, that "if
the land is worth more for agriculture than mining, it is not
-mineral land, although it may contain some measure of gold
or silver," pp. 521, 522, citing United Stales v. Reed, 12 Sawy.
99, 104. Again it.was said, "the exception of mineral lands
from- grant in the Acts of Congress should be considered to
apply only to such lands as were at the time of the grant
known to be so valuable for their minerals as to justify expenditure for their extraction," p. 524. These are the tests
to which the act of 1878 must be taken to refer, since it refers
to and rests upon the statutes construed to adopt these tests.
It is said that such a construction empties the statute of
all its use, because if the land is.
known to be valuable for

SAXLEHNER v. WAGNER.
216 U. S.

Syllabus.

minerals a mining claim to it will be located, only the owners,
of which can cut the timber, whereas the- statute gives the
right to all residents. If that were true, courts still would be
bound by the explicit and unmistakable words. It is not unknown, when opinion is divided, that qualifications sometimes are inserted into an act that are hoped to make it ineffective. - But the obj~ction is stated too strongly. As
pointed out at the argument, in 1878 probably there was a
great deal of mineral-land still unexplored .on which claims
had not been located, not to speak of mere exceptional cases
in which. the act would apply. The regulations of the Secretary of the Interior for a long time, and it would seem
always, have been in accord with our dpinion and -the laInguage of the act.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

dissents.

SAXLEHNER v. WAGNER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 81.

Argued January 17, 1910.-Decidcd February 21, 1910.

The right to individual appropriation once lost is gone forever.
Where a geographic or family name becomes the name for a natural
water coming from a more dr less extensive district, all are free to
try to imitate it, and the owners of one of such natural springs

cannot prevent the sale of an artificial water as being similar to that
of the natural spring, where there is no attempt to deceive the
public as to its l6eing artificial.
Hunyadi is now in effect a geographical expression and the owners of
the Hunyadi Janos Springs cannot prevent the sale .of artificial

Hunyadi water where there is no deception of the public as to its
being an imitation.
157 Fed. R4. 745, affirmed.

