OCTOBER TERM, 1964.
April 26, 1965.

380 U. S.

TEXAS v. NEW JERSEY ET AL.
No. 13, Original.

Decided February 1, 1965.-Decree entered
April 26, 1965.

Decree carrying into effect this Court's opinion of February 1, 1965,
379 U. S. 674.

FINAL DECREE.
This cause having come on to be heard on the Report
of the Special Master heretofore appointed by the Court,
and the exceptions filed thereto, and having been argued
by counsel for the several parties, and this Court having
stated its conclusions in its opinion announced on February 1, 1965, 379 U. S. 674, and having considered the
positions of the respective parties as to the terms of the
decree,
IT Is ORDERED, ADJUDGED AND DECREED AS FoLLows:

1. Each item of property in question in this case as to
which a last-known address of the person entitled thereto
is shown on the books and records of defendant Sun Oil
Company is subject to escheat or custodial taking only by
the State of that last-known address, as shown on the
books and records of defendant Sun Oil Company, to the
extent of that State's power under its own laws to escheat
or to take custodially.
2. Each item of property in question in this case as to
which there is no address of the person entitled thereto
shown on the books and records of defendant Sun Oil
Company is subject to escheat or custodial taking only
by New Jersey, the State in which Sun Oil Company was
incorporated, to the extent of New Jersey's power under
its own laws to escheat or to take custodially, subject to
the right of any other State to recover such property from
New Jersey upon proof that the last-known address of the
creditor was within that other State's borders.

DECISIONS PER CURIAM.
April 26, 1965.

380 U. S.

3. Each item of property in question in this case as to
which the last-known address of the person entitled
thereto as shown on the books and records of defendant
Sun Oil Company is in a State, the laws of which do not
provide for the escheat of such property, is subject to
escheat or custodial taking only by New Jersey, the State
in which Sun Oil Company was incorporated, to the
extent of New Jersey's power under its own laws to escheat
or to take custodially, subject to the right of the State
of the last-known address to recover the property from
New Jersey if and when the law of the State of the lastknown address makes provision for escheat or custodial
taking of such property.
4. Any relief prayed for by any party to this action
which is not hereby granted is denied.

CALLENDER
ON

ET AL.

v. FLORIDA.

PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME
COURT OF FLORIDA.

No. 58.

Decided April 26,1965.

Certiorari granted and judgments reversed.

Carl Rachlin and Floyd McKissick for petitioners.
James W. Kynes, Attorney General of Florida, and
George R. Georgieff, Assistant Attorney General, for
respondent.
PER CURIAM.

The petition for writ of certiorari is granted and the
judgments are reversed. Boynton v. Virginia, 364 U. S.
454, Abernathy v. Alabama, ante, p. 447.

