OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

TERLINDEN v. AMES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 475. Argued January 6,7, 1902.-Decided February 24, 1902.
Extradition proceedings before a committing magistrate thereto duly authorized, where jurisdiction exists, and there is competent legal evidence
tending to establish the criminality alleged, cannot be interfered with
by habeas corpus.
In this case the writ of habeas corpus was issued before the examination
by the commissioner was entered upon, and the inquiry was confined to
the question of his jurisdiction. He had jurisdiction if there was a treaty
between this and the demanding country, and the commission of extraditable offences was charged.
Offences were charged to have been committed "contrary to the laws of
Prussia," and although the violated laws were prescribed by imperial
authority, they were nevertheless the laws of Prussia and were being
administered as such by the Royal Prussian Circuit Court before which
the charges were pending.
As the German Government has officially recognized, and continues to
recognize, the treaty between the United States and the Kingdom of
Prussia of June 16, 1852, as still in force, and not terminated because of
impossibility of performance, and the Executive Department of this Government has accepted that view and proceeded accordingly, it is not for
our courts to question the correctness of the conclusions of the German
Government as to the effect of the adoption of the Constitution of the
German Empire.
The question whether power remains in a foreign State to carry out its
treaty obligations is in its nature political, and it is not within the province of the courts to interfere with the conclusions of the political department in that regard.
AUGUST 15, A. D. 1901, Dr. Walther Wever, Imperial German Consul at Chicago, filed his complaint before Mark A.
Foote, Esq., a commissioner of the United States in and for
the Northern District of Illinois, and specially authorized to
issue warrants for the apprehension of fugitives from justice of
foreign governments, stating that he was "the duly accredited
official agent and representative of the German Empire at Chi-

TERLINDEN v. AMES.
Statement of the Case.

cago and also the Kingdom of Prussia, forming a part of said
German Empire," and charging that one Gerhard Terlinden,
alias Theodor Graefe, a subject of the Kingdom of Prussia,
did, within the first six months of the year 1901, "commit
within the jurisdiction of the said Kingdom of Prussia various
crimes of forgery and counterfeiting and the utterance of
forged papers," in that as a director of the Gerhard Terlinden
Stock Company, organized and doing business in said kingdom,
said Terlinden forged and counterfeited certain certificates of
the stock of said company amounting to about a million and a
half of marks, and put out, uttered and disposed of the same
to Robert Suermont of the city of Aachen, Prussia; the Amsterdamsche Bank, Netherlands; the Disconto Gesellschaft, a
corporation doing business in Berlin, Prussia; and other persons and corporations, with felonious intent to cheat and defraud them respectively. The complaint further charged that
Terlinden was at the time of committing said crimes a resident
of the city of Duisburg and a citizen of said Kingdom of Prussia ; that he was a fugitive from said kingdom ; that on or about
the first day of Jtaly, 1901, he fled into the jurisdiction of the
United States of America for the purpose of seeking an asylum
therein; that he was now said to be concealed within the Northern District of Illinois or in the Eastern District of Wisconsin;
and that the crimes with which he was charged were crimes
embraced within the treaty of extradition between the United
States and the Kingdom of Prussia, concluded 6n the 16th day
of June, 1852, and ratified May 30, 1853.
It was therefore prayed that a warrant be issued for the apprehension and commitment of Terlinden "in order that the
evidence of his criminality may be inquired into, and the said
Gerhard Terlinden, alias Theodor Graefe, may be extradited
and delivered up to the justice of the said Kingdom of Prussia, in accordance with the stipulations of said treaty and the
acts of Congress passed in pursuance thereof."
The complaint was duly verified and the commissioner issued
his warrant, which was placed in the hands of John C. Ames,
United States marshal in and for the Northern District of Illinois, and Terlinden was apprehended and held to be dealt with
according to law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

Subsequently and on September 25, 1901, Dr. Wever, in his
capacity aforesaid made another complaint before the commissioner, charging (1) the forging of a large number of stock
certificates of the Gerhard Terlinden Stock Company; (2) uttering said stock certificates, well knowing them to be forged;
(3) forging and counterfeiting the steel stamp of the Royal
Prussian revenue office at Duisburg, Prussia; (4)imprinting said
forged steel stamp upon the forged certificates of stock so as to
make it appear that the tax required by the Prussian revenue
law had been paid on said certificates issued by the company in
said kingdom, and thus to give said forged certificates the appearance of genuineness; (5) uttering forged certificates of stock
with said forged stamp thereon; (6) forging the acceptance of
one Heinrich Schulte to a certain draft for nine thousand five
hundred and eighty-two marks and thirty-five pfennings, and
uttering the same; (7) forging the acceptance of one Wilhelm
Seven to two certain drafts for the sums of twenty-six thousand
two hundred and fifty marks and of twenty-five thousand nine
hundred and twelve marks and forty-five pfennings, respectively,
and uttering the same; or causing all these things to be done;
"contrary to the laws of the Kingdom of Prussia."
It was stated that these several crimes were fully shown by
the testimony of a number of witnesses heard before the examining judge of the Landgericht at Duisburg in the Kingdom
of Prussia, "a court of competent jurisdiction in which the
matter of the penal investigation instituted against the said
Gerhard Terlinden, alias Theodor Graefe, is now pending, in
order that he may answer for said several crimes;" and with
the complaint were submitted copies of the depositions of the
witnesses, together with a copy of the warrant of arrest issued
by that court against Terlinden, "and of the provisions of the
penal code of the German Empire applicable to said several
crimes and providing punishment therefor," all of which were
duly authenticated; and also a verified English translation
thereof. This second complaint also showed that the crimes
charged were committed within the jurisdiction of the Kingdom
of Prussia; and that Terlinden was at the time of committing
the same, a subject of that kingdom; and the commissioner in

TERLINDEN v. AMES.
Statement of the Case.

accordance with the prayer of the complaint issued another
warrant, which was served on Terlinden the following day, he
being discharged from arrest on the first warrant. On the 17th
of October, before any evidence was taken before the commissioner, Terlinden presented to the District Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Illinois his petition praying
for a writ of habeas corpus on the following grounds:
"1. No treaty or convention for the extradition of fugitives
from justice exists between the United States and the German
Empire.
"2. That the treaty or convention for the extradition of fugitives from justice concluded between the United States and the
Kingdom of Prussia on the 16th day of June, 1852, and ratified
May 30, A. D. 1853, was terminated by the creation of the
German Empire and the adoption of the Constitution of said
Empire in A. D. 1871, and that no treaty or convention for
the extradition of fugatives from justice has been concluded between the United States, on the one part, and the Kingdom of
Prussia or the German Empire, on the other, since said time.
"3. Said complaint does not charge an extraditable offence
under the provisions of the treaty of 1852, concluded between
the United States and Prussia and other German States, were
said treaty still in force and of binding effect.
"14. Your petitioner is not guilty of any extraditable offence
under the provisions of said treaty of 1852, were said treaty
still in force and of binding effect.
"5. All proceedings had or attempted to be had before said
commissioner under said complaint and warrant are illegal,
void and without authority in law because said commissioner
did not have jurisdiction over the person of this petitioner."
The writ of habeas compus was issued and the marshal for
the Northern District of Illinois filed his return October 21,
setting forth that he "arrested said petitioner within said district on the 26th day of September, 1901, upon a warrant duly
issued by Mark A. Foote, a United States commissioner specially appointed and authorized by the District Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Illinois to hear applications for extradition and to issue warrants therefor, which
VOL. oLxxxIv--18

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

said warrant was duly issued by said commissioner upon a complaint duly made by Walther Wever, Imperial German Consul
at Chicago as representative of the Kingdom of Prussia, charging said Gerhard Terlinden, who, it appears, falsely assumed in
this country the name of Theodor Graefe, with having, as a
subject of the Kingdom of Prussia and within the jurisdiction
of the said kingdom, committed the crimes of forgery, counterfeiting and the utterance of forged instruments, and with being
"
a fugitive from justice of said Kingdom of Prussia.
The matter was brought on for hearing October 21, and after
arguments of counsel the court gave leave to present briefs
and adjourned the hearing to October 28. On that day the
relator filed with the clerk of the court a traverse, reciting that
with the complaint of September 26 there were filed "copies
of the original testimony and translations of the same contained
in the depositions taken before certain court officials in the Empire of Germany, relative to the alleged offences with which said
complaint charges your petitioner; that said complaint refers
to said depositions so filed in words following, to wit:" [Then
setting forth the passages of the complaint to the effect that
Dr. Wever therewith submitted " to the commissioner and
files with this complaint a copy of all depositions of witnesses
taken in said matter, together with a copy of the warrant of
arrest issued by said court against the said Gerhard Terlinden,
alias Theodor Graefe, and of the provisions of the penal code
of the German Empire applicable to said several crimes and
providing punishment therefor."]
The traverse then continued:
"That the provisions of the Criminal Code of the German
Empire applicable to the facts and circumstances of this case
as shown by the evidence hereto annexed are sections 240, 47,
49 first paragraph; section 360 fourth and fifth paragraphs;
section 275 and section 56 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
also section 234 of the Civil Code, a correct translation of which
sections are hereto annexed and marked Exhibit ' B' and made
a part hereof.
"That said depositions so filed do not show or tend to show
that your petitioner is guilty of any extraditable offence; that

TERLINDEN v. AMES.
Statement of the Case.

a copy of said deposition so referred to in said complaint and
heretofore filed with said commissioner is hereto attached
marked Exhibit 'A' and made a part of this traverse.
"Wherefore your petitioner prays that the return of the
United States marshal herein be dismissed and your petitioner
discharged."
Copies of depositions were attached to the alleged traverse;
but no copy of the warrant of arrest issued by the court at
Duisburg, or of the provisions of the penal code attached to the
complaint.
An affidavit accompanied the traverse to the effect that affiant
as an expert had made the annexed translations of certain sections and parts of sections of the German criminal and civil
codes.
October 29, to which day the hearing of the cause had been
continued. Terlinden presented a petition for a writ of certiorari to bring before the court "for its consideration the depositions, provisions of the German Criminal Code and copy of the
original warrant issued by said German court heretofore referred
to."
This application was denied by the District Court, October 31, and the court ordered "that the question of whether
since the formation of the German Empire the extradition treaty
concluded between the Government of the United States and
the Kingdom of Prussia in 1852 is still in force or abrogated by
the Constitution of the German Empire, be submitted to the
court on briefs to be filed," and continued the hearing. It was
also ordered "that said relator be remanded to the custody of
the marshal, and that the motion to stay all further proceedings
before the United States commissioner be and the same hereby
is denied."
Thereafter, on November 5, the District Court entered an
order finding that the petitioner was lawfully restrained of his
liberty, directing the petition to be dismissed, and remanding
petitioner, from which an appeal was taken to this court.
Errors were assigned, in substance, that the court erred in declining to hold that no treaty exists between the United States
and the Kingdom of Prussia or the German Empire; in assure-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

ing the existence of such treaty; in denying the right to introduce evidence for the purpose of showing that no extraditable
offence had been committed; in denying the application for a
certiorari; in holding that the record showed the commission
of an extraditable offence.
Mr. Albert TV. MAay and M21r. A. C. Umbreit for appellant.
Mr. Jos-ph B. Doe was on their brief.
.216. William Vocke for appellee.
was on his brief.

Mr16.. William Xannhardt

MR. CRisF' JUSTICE FULLER, after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The treaty of June 16, 1852, between the United States and
the Kingdom of Prussia, and other States of the Germanic
Confederation included in or which might accede to that convention, provided that the parties thereto should upon requisition "deliver up to justice all persons who, being charged with
the crime of murder, or assault with intent to commit murder,
or piracy, or assault with intent to commit murder, or arson, or
robbery, or forgery, or the utterance of forged papers, or the
fabrication or circulation of counterfeit money, whether coin
or paper money, or the embezzlement of public moneys, committed within the jurisdiction of either party, shall seek an
asylum, or shall be found within the territories of the other."
10 Stat. 964, 966.
Pursuant to ยง 52701 of the Revised Statutes, (and the acts
'SEC. 5270. Whenever there is a treaty or convention for extradition between the Government of the United States and any foreign government,
any justice of the Supreme Court, circuit judge, district judge, commissioner, authorized so to do by any of the courts of the United States, or
judge of a court of record of general jurisdiction of any State, may, upon
complaint made under oath, charging any person found within the limits
of any State, district, or Territory, with having committed within the jurisdiction of any such foreign government any of the crimes provided for by
such treaty or convention, issue his warrant for the apprehension of the
person so charged, that he may be brought before such justice, judge, or
commissioner, to the end that the evidence of criminality may be heard

TERLINDEN v. AMES.
Opinion of the Court

from which that section was brought forward,) complaint was
duly made before a commissioner appointed and authorized by
the District Court of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois to hear applications for extradition and to issue
warrants therefor, charging Terlinden with having as a subject
of the Kingdom of Prussia, and within the jurisdiction of that
Kingdom, committed the crimes of forgery, counterfeiting and
the utterance of forged instruments, and with being a fugitive
from the justice of said kingdom.
The complaint charged with much particularity, among other
things, the forging and uttering of forged stock certificates of
the Gerhard Terlinden Stock Company; the forging of the revenue stamp of the German Government employed by the Royal
Prussian Revenue Office; and the forging and uttering of several enumerated acceptances.
Attached to the complaint and referred to therein were duly
authenticated 1 copies of certain depositions taken before the
examining judge of the court at Duisburg, Prussia, in which an
investigation against Terlinden, that he might answer for said
several crimes, was pending, together with a copy of the warand considered. If, on such hearing, he deems the evidence sufficient to
sustain the charge under the provisions of the proper treaty or convention, he shall certify the same, together with a copy of all the testimony
taken before him, to the Secretary of State, that a, warrant may issue upon
the requisition of the proper authorities of such foreign government, for
the surrender of such person, according to the stipulations of the treaty
or convention; and he shall issue his warrant for the commitment of the
person so charged to the proper jail, there to remain until such surrender
shall be made.
1
SEc. 5271. In every case of complaint and of a hearing upon the return
of the warrant of arrest, any depositions, warrants, or other papers offered in
evidence, shall be admitted and received for the purpose of such hearing if
they shall be properly and legally authenticated so as to entitle them to be
received as evidence of the criminality of the person so apprehended, by
the tribunals of the foreign country from which the accused party shall
have escaped, and copies of any such depositions, warrants or other papers,
shall, if authenticated according to the law of such foreign country, be in
like manner received as evidence; and the certificate of the principal diplomatic or consular officer of the United States resident in such foreign
country shall be proof that any such deposition, warrant or other paper, or
copy thereof, is authenticated in the manner required by this section.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

rant for the arrest of Terlinden issued by that court, and of the
provisions of the penal code of the German Empire applicaile
to the crimes in question and providing punishment therefor.
The commissioner issued his warrant and Terlinden was apprehended, whereupon and before the commissioner had entered
upon the hearing, Terlinden petitioned and obtained from the
District Court the writ of habeas cor2us under consideration.
The settled rule is that the writ of habeas cor2us cannot perform the office of a writ of error, and that, in extradition proceedings, if the committing magistrate has jurisdiction of the
subject matter and of the accused, and the offence charged is
within the terms of the treaty of extradition, and the magistrate, in arriving at a decision to hold the accused, has before
him competent legal evidence on which to exercise his judgment
as to whether the facts are sufficient to establish the criminality
of the accused for the purposes of extradition, such decision cannot be reviewed on habeas copus. Ornelas v. Ruiz, 161 U. S.
502, 508, and cases cited ; B'yant v. United States, 167 U. S. 104.
The statute in respect of extradition gives no right of review
to be exercised by any court or judicial officer, and what cannot be done directly cannot be done indirectly through the writ
of habeas corpus. The court issuing the writ may, however,
"inquire and adjudge whether the commissioner acquired jurisdiction of the matter, by conforming to the requirements of the
treaty and the statute; whether he exceeded his jurisdiction;
and whether he had any legal or competent evidence of facts
before him, on which to exercise a judgment as to the criminality of the accused. But such court is not to inquire whether
the legal evidence of facts before the commissioner was sufficient or insufficient to warrant his conclusion." Blatchford, J.,
In re Stupp, 12 Blatch. 501; Ornelas v. utiz, 161 U. S. 508.
By section 754 of the Revised Statutes it is provided that the
complaint in habeas corpus shall set forth "the facts concerning
the detention of the party restrained, in whose custody he is
detained, and by virtue of what claim or authority, if known;"
and by section 755 that the writ shall be awarded "unless it
appears from the petition itself that the party is not entitled
thereto."

TERLINDEN v. AMES.
Opinion of the Court.

On the face of the complaint extraditable offences were
charged to have been committed, and if petitioner desired to
assert, as he now does in argument, that it appeared from the
depositions taken before and the warrant of arrest issued by the
court at Duisburg and the provisions of the criminal code that
such was not the fact, they should have been set out. Craemer
v. Washington, 168 U. S. 124, 128.
And this clearly must be so where, as in this case, the writ is
issued and petitioner undertakes to traverse the return. The
return was that Terlinden was arrested and held by virtue of
warrants of arrest and of commitment issued by the commissioner, under the extradition acts, against Terlinden as a fugitive from the justice of Prussia, and charged with the commis
sion of crimes embraced by the treaty of extradition with that
kingdom; and copies of the warrants were attached as part
thereof. The alleged traverse referred to the complaint and
annexed copies of the depositions filed with it, but did not annex a copy of the warrant of arrest issued by the court at Duisburg, or of the provisions of the penal code made part of the
complaint; and also annexed certain sections and paragraphs
of the Criminal Code of the German Empire, and of the Code
of Criminal Procedure, and of the Civil Code, as applicable to
"the facts and circumstances of the case," and then alleged
that the depositions did not show or tend to show guilt of an
extraditable offence.
This was manifestly insufficient. Petitioner could not select
a portion of the documents accompanying the complaint and
ask the court to sustain his conclusion of law thereon. Nor
could he subsequently supply the inadequacy of the traverse by
a certiorari, which could do no more, if it could be, in any view,
properly issued at that stage of the proceedings, than bring up
what he should have furnished in the first instance.
Generally speaking, "whether an extraditable crime has been
committed is a question of mixed law and fact, but chiefly of
fact, and the judgment of the magistrate rendered in good faith
on legal evidence that the accused is guilty of the act charged,
and that it constitutes an extraditable crime, cannot be reviewed
on the weight of evidence, and is final for the purposes of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

preliminary examination unless palpably erroneous in law."
Ornelas v. Ruiz, 161 U. S. 502, 509.

Necessarily this is so, for where jurisdiction depends on the
merits, the decision is not open to collateral attack involving
a retrial, although if on the whole record the findings are contradicted, the inquiry as to lack of jurisdiction may be entertained.
In this case the writ of habeas corpus was issued before the
examination by the commissioner had been entered upon, and
his jurisdiction was the only question raised. If he had jurisdiction, the District Court could not interfere, and he had jurisdiction if there was a treaty and the commission of extraditable offences was charged.
But it is said that the offences complained of were not extraditable because their commission was averred to be "contrary to the laws of Prussia," whereas the criminal laws asserted
to have been violated were those of the German Empire, and
Prussia had no criminal laws dealing with such offences. Hence
it is argued that the commissioner bad no jurisdiction, because
if an extradition treaty existed it was with Prussia, and not
with the German Empire; and if any crime was committed, it
was against the German Empire and not Prussia.
It is true that by Article 2 of the Constitution of the German
Empire it was provided that: "Within this territory the Empire shall have the right of legislation according to the provisions of this constitution, and the laws of the Empire shall take
precedence of those of each individual state."
And by Article 4: " The following matters shall be under
the supervision of the Empire and its legislation:

.

.

.

13.

General legislation regarding the law of obligations, criminal
law, commercial law, and the law of exchange; likewise judicial proceedings."
Counsel for petitioner states in his brief that on January 1,
1872, the German Imperial Code went into effect, embracing
provisions as to the crime of forgery "contained in sections
267, 268, 146 and 149, the very sections quoted in the depositions filed with the amended complaint." Counsel for respondent agrees with this except that he includes sections or para-

TERLINDEN v. AMES.
Opinion of the Court.

graphs 147 and 270. All these are given below as furnished by
counsel for respondent.' And see Drage's Criminal Code of
1267. Whoever with unlawful intent forges or counterfeits a domestic or
foreign public instrument or such a private instrument as may be of importance for the purpose of proving rights or legal relations, and makes use of
the same for the purpose of deception, is punishable with imprisonment for
forgery of instruments.
268. Forgery of an instrument made by any one with the intent of obtaining for himself or another a pecuniary gain, or to inflict injury upon another,
is punishable as follows:
1. When the instrument is a private instrument, with imprisonment in
the penitentiary up to five years, besides which a fine not exceeding three
thousand marks may be imposed.
2. When the instrument is a public instrument, with imprisonment inthe
penitentiary for a term not exceeding ten years, besides which a fine of from
one hundred and fifty to six thousand marks may be imposed.
In case of mitigating circumstances imprisonment in the common jail
will take place, which, in the case of forgery of a private instrument, shall
be not less than one week, and in the case of forgery of a public instrument,
not less than three months.
In addition to the imprisonment, a fine not exceeding three thousand
marks may be imposed.
146. Whoever counterfeits inland or foreign coin or paper money for the
purpose of using such counterfeited money as genuine or otherwise to put
it in circulation; or who, with like intent, gives to genuine money, by alteration made upon the same, the appearance of higher value, or gives to invalidated money the appearance of money still current, shall be punished
with imprisonment in the penitentiary for not less than two years. Police
surveillance is also admissible. In the case of mitigating circumstances
imprisonment in the common jail may be provided.
147. The same penalty extends to all persons who circulate the money
counterfeited or altered by them with the above mentioned intent, and also
to such persons who obtain counterfeited or altered money and either utter
t-he same or bring the same from abroad with the intent of circulating the
same.

149. Certificates of indebtedness made payable to the holder, bank notes,
stock certificates or preliminary certificates or receipts taking their place,
as well as coupons and dividends or renewal certificates thereto belonging,
which may be issued by the Empire, the North German Confederation, a
state of the Confederation, or a foreign state, or by any other community,
corporation, company or private person authorized to issue such papers,
are deemed equivalent to paper money.
270. It is treated as equivalent to forgery of an instrument in case anybody makes use of any forged or altered document, knowing the same to
be forged or altered, with intent to deceive.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

the German Empire, 227, 266. The traverse set up that there
were filed with the complaint "a copy of all depositions taken
in said matter, together with a copy of the warrant of arrest
issued by said court against the said Gerhard Terlinden, alias
Theodor Graefe, and of the provisions of the Penal Code of the
German Empire applicable to said several crimes, and providing
punishment therefor." The traverse did not set forth the warrant of arrest or the provisions of the code referred to, and
merely attached certain other provisions which it was averred
were applicable. The presumptions were against petitioner,
apart from which, accepting the admissions of counsel, extraditable offences were charged, if the laws quoted applied, as we
think cannot be denied. We are unable to perceive that these
laws were not the laws of Prussia, although prescribed by imperial authority, and the record discloses that they were being
administered as such, in Prussia, by the Royal Prussian Circuit Court at Duisburg. The inquiry into the source of the laws
of the demanding government is not material, and the objection
is untenable.
It is obvious that the District Court could not remove the
case from the commissioner by virtue of the writ of habeas co2.pus, and that the court rightly declined to hear evidence, to
grant the certiorari, or to interfere with the progress of the
case.
This brings us to the real question, namely, the denial of the
existence of a treaty of extradition between the United States
and the Kingdom of Prussia, or the German Empire. In these
proceedings the application was made by the official representative of both the Empire and the Kingdom of Prussia, but was
based on the extradition treaty of 1852. The contention is that,
as the result of the formation of the German Empire, this treaty
had been terminated by operation of law.
Treaties are of different kinds and terminable in different
ways. The fifth article of this treaty provided, in substance,
that it should continue in force until 1858, and thereafter until
the end of a twelve months' notice by one of the parties of the
intention to terminate it. No such notice has ever been given,
and extradition has been frequently awarded under it during
the entire intervening time.

TERLINDEN v. AMES.
Opinion of the Court.

Undoubtedly treaties may be terminated by the absorption
of Powers into other Nationalities and the loss of separate existence, as in the case of Hanover and Nassau, which became by
conquest incorporated into the Kingdom of Prussia in 1866.
Cessation of independent existence rendered the execution of
treaties impossible. But where sovereignty in that respect is
not extinguished, and the power to execute remains unimpaired,
outstanding treaties cannot be regarded as avoided because of
impossibility of performance.
This treaty was entered into by His Majesty the King of
Prussia in his own name and in the names of eighteen other
States of the Germanic Confederation, including the Kingdom
of Saxony and the free city of Frankfort, and was acceded to
by six other States, including the Kingdom of Wiirtemburg,
and the free Hanseatic city of Bremen, but not including the
Hanseatic free cities of Hamburg and Lubeck. The war between
Prussia and Austria in 1866 resulted in the extinction of the
Germanic Confederation and the absorption of Hanover, Hesse
Cassel, Nassau and the free city of Frankfort, by Prussia.
The North German Union was then created under the praesidium of the Crown of Prussia, and our minister to Berlin,
George Bancroft, thereupon recognized officially not only the
Prussian Parliament, but also the Parliament of the North
German United States, and the collective German Customs
and Commerce Union, upon the ground that by the paramount
constitution of the North German United States, the King of
Prussia, to whom he was accredited, was at the head of those
several organizations or institutions; and his action was entirely approved by this Government. Messages and Documents, Dep. of State, 1867-8, Part I, p. 601; Dip. Correspondence, Secretary Seward to Mr. Bancroft, Dec. 9, 1867.
February 22, 1868, a treaty relative to naturalization was
concluded between the United States and His Majesty, the
King of Prussia, on behalf of the North German Confederation, the third article of which read as follows: "The convention for the mutual delivery of criminals, fugitives from justice,
in certain cases, concluded between the United States on the
one part and Prussia and other States of Germany on the other

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

part, the sixteenth day of June, one thousand eight hundred
and fifty-two, is hereby extended to all the States of the North
German Confederation." 15 Stat. 615. This recognized the
treaty as still in force, and brought the Republics of Lubeck
and Hamburg within its scope. Treaties were also made in
that year between the United States and the Kingdoms of Bavaria and Wiirtemburg, concerning naturalization, which contained the provision that the previous conventions between
them and the United States in respect of fugitives from justice
should remain in force without change.
Then came the adoption of the Constitution of the German
Empire. It found the King of Prussia, the chief executive of
the North German Union, endowed with power to carry into
effect its international obligations, and those of his kingdom,
and it perpetuated and confirmed that situation. The official
promulgation of that Constitution recited that it was adopted
instead of the Constitution of the North German Union, and
its preamble declared that "His -Majesty the King of Prussia,
in the name of the North German Union, His Majesty the
King of Bavaria, His Majesty the King of Wiirtemburg, His
Highness the Grand Duke of Baden, and His Royal Highness
the Grand Duke of Hesse and by Rhine for those parts of the
Grand Duchy of Hesse which are situated south of the Main,
conclude an eternal alliance for the protection of the territory
of the Confederation, and of the laws of the same, as well as for
the promotion of the welfare of the German people." As we
have heretofore seen, the laws of the Empire were to take precedence of those of the individual States, and it was vested with
the power of general legislation in respect of crimes.
Article 11 read "The King of Prussia shall be the president
of the Confederation, and shall have the title of German Emperor. The Emperor shall represent the Empire among nations,
declare war, and conclude peace in the name of the same; enter into alliances and other conventions with foreign countries,
accredit ambassadors, and receive them. . . . So far as
treaties with foreign countries refer to matters which, according to Article IV, are to be regulated by the legislature of the
Empire, the consent of the Federal Council shall be required

TERLINDEN v. AMES.
Opinion of the Court.

for their ratification, and the approval 6f the Diet sha11 be necessary to render them valid."
It is contended that the words in the preamble translated
"an eternal alliance" should read "an eternal union," but this
is not material, for admitting that the Constitution created a
composite State instead of a system of confederated States, and
even that it was called a confederated Empire rather to save
the amour propre of some of its component parts than otherwise, it does not necessarily follow that the Kingdom of Prussia
lost its identity as such, or that treaties theretofore entered
into by it could not be performed either in the name of its
King or that of the Emperor. We do not find in this constitution any provision which in itself operated to abrogate existing
treaties or to affect the status of the Kingdom of Prussia in
that regard. Nor is there anything in the record to indicate
that outstanding treaty obligations have been disregarded since
its adoption. So far from that being so, those obligations have
been faithfully observed.
And without considering whether extinguished treaties can
be renewed by tacit consent under our Constitution, we think
that on the question whether this treaty has ever been terminated, governmental action in respect to it must be regarded as
of controlling importance. During the period from 1871 to
the present day, extradition from this country to Germany, and
from Germany to this country, has been frequently granted
under the treaty, which has thus been repeatedly recognized
by both governments as in force. Moore's Report on Extradition with Returns of all Cases, 1890.
In 1889, in response to a request for information on international extradition as practiced by the German Government, the
Imperial Foreign Office transmitted to our charg6 at Berlin a
memorial on the subject, in the note accompanying which it
was said: "The questions referred to, in so far as they could not
be uniformly answered for all the confederated German States,
have been answered in that document as relating to the case of
applications for extradition addressed to the Empire or Prussia."
It was stated in the memorial, among other things:
"In so far as by laws and treaties of the Empire relating to

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

the extradition of criminals, provisions which bind all the States
of the union have not been made, those States are not hindered
from independently regulating extradition by agreements with
foreign States, or by laws enacted for their own territory.
"Of conventions, some of an earlier, some of a later period,
for the extradition of criminals, entered into by individual
States of the union with various foreign States, there exist a
number, and in particular such with France, the Netherlands,
Austria-Hungary, and Russia. With the United States of
America, also, extradition is regulated by various treaties, as,
besides the treaty of June 16, 1852, which applies to all of the
States of the former North German Union, and also to Hesse,
south of the Main, and to Wiirtemburg, there exist separate
treaties with Bavaria and Baden, of September 12, 1853, and
January 30, 1857, respectively." Moore's Report, 93, 94.
Thus it appears that the German Government has officially
recognized, and continues to recognize, the treaty of June 16,
1852, as still in force, as well as similar treaties with other
members of the Empire, so far as the latter has not taken
specific action to the contrary or in lieu thereof. And see
Laband, Das Staatsrecht des Deutschen Reiches, (1894), 122,123,

124, 142.
It is out of the question that a citizen of one of the German
states, charged with being a fugitive from its justice, should be
permitted to call on the courts of this country to adjudicate
the correctness of the conclusions of the Empire as to its powers and the powers of its members, and especially as the Executive Department of our Government has accepted these conclusions and proceeded accordingly.
The same is true as respects many other treaties of serious
moment, with Prussia, and with particular States of the Empire, and it would be singular, indeed, if after the lapse of
years of performance of their stipulations, these treaties must
be held to have terminated because of the inability to perform during all that time of one of the parties.
In the notes accompanying the State Department's compilation of Treaties and Conventions between the United States
and other Powers, published in 1889, Mr. J. C. Bancroft Davis
treats of the subject thus:

TERLINDEN v. A MES.
Opinion of the Court.

"The establishment of the German Empire in 1871, and the
complex relations of its component parts to each other and
to the Empire, necessarily give rise to questions as to the
treaties entered into with the North German Confederation
and with many of the States composing the Empire. It cannot be said that any fixed rules have been established.
"Where a State has lost its separate existence, as in the case
of Hanover and Nassau, no questions can arise.
"Where no new treaty has been negotiated with the Empire, the treaties with the various States which have preserved
a separate existence have been resorted to.
"The question of the existence of the extradition treaty with
Bavaria was presented to the United States District Court, on
the application of a person accused of forgery committed in
Bavaria, to be discharged on habeas corpus, who was in custody
after the issue of a mandate, at the request of the minister of
Germany. The court held that the treaty was admitted by
both governments to be in existence.
"Such a question is, after all, purely a political one."
The case there referred to is that of In re Thomas, 12 Blatch.
370, in which the continuance of the extradition treaty with
Bavaria was called in question, and Mr. Justice Blatchford,
then District Judge, said:
"It is further contended, on the part of Thomas, that the
convention with Bavaria was abrogated by the absorption of
Bavaria into the German Empire. An examination of the provisions of the Constitution of the German Empire does not disclose anything which indicates that then existing treaties between the several States composing the confederation called
the German Empire, and foreign countries, were annulled, or
to be considered as abrogated.
"Indeed, it is difficult to see how such a treaty as that between Bavaria and the United States can be abrogated by the
action of Bavaria alone, without the consent of the United
States. Where a treaty is violated by one of the contracting
parties, it rests alone with the injured party to pronounce it
broken, the treaty being, in such case, not absolutely void, but
voidable, at the election of the injured party, who may waive

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

or remit the infraction committed, or may demand a just satisfaction, the treaty remaining obligatory if he chooses not to
come to a rupture. 1 Kent's Com. 174. In the present case
the mandate issued by the Government of the United States
shows that the convention in question is regarded as in force
both by the United States and by the German Empire, represented by its envoys, and by Bavaria, represented by the same
envoy. The application of the foreign government was made
through the proper diplomatic representative of the German
Empire and of Bavaria, and the complaint before the commissioner was made by the proper consular authority representing
the German Empire and also representing Bavaria."
We concur in the view that the question whether power remains in a foreign State to carry out its treaty obligations is in
its nature political and not judicial, and that the courts ought
not to interfere with the conclusions of the political department in that regard.
Treaties of extradition are executory in their character, and
fall within the rule laid down by Chief Justice Marshall in Foster v. Heilson, 2 Pet. 253, 314, thus: "Our Constitution declares a treaty to be the law of the land. It is, consequently,
to be regarded in courts of justice as equivalent to an act of the
legislature, whenever it operates of itself without the aid of
any legislative provision. But when the terms of the stipulation import a contract, when either of the parties engages to
perform a particular act, the treaty addresses itself to the political, not the judicial department."
In Doe v. Braden, 16 How. 635. 656, where it was contended
that so much of the treaty of February 22, 1819, ceding Florida
to the United States, as annulled a certain land grant, was
void for want of power in the King of Spain to ratify such a
provision, it was held that whether or not the King of Spain
had power, according to the Constitution of Spain, to annul the
grant, was a political and not a judicial question, and was decided when the treaty was made and ratified.
Mr. Chief Justice Taney said: "The treaty is therefore a
law made by the proper authority, and the courts of justice
have no right to annul or disregard any of its provisions, un-

TERLINDEN v. AMES.
Opinion of the Court.

less they violate the Constitution of the United States. It is
their duty to interpret it and administer it according to its
terms. And it would be impossible for the executive department of the Government to conduct our foreign relations with
any advantage to the country, and fulfil the duties which the
Constitution has imposed upon it, if every court in the country was authorized to inquire and decide whether the person
who ratified the treaty on behalf of a foreign nation had the
power, by its constitution and laws, to make the engagements
into which he entered."
Extradition may be sufficiently defined to be the surrender
by one nation to another of an individual accused or convicted
of an offence outside of its own territory, and within the territorial jurisdiction of the other, which, being competent to
try and to punish him, demands the surrender.
.In the United States, the general opinion and practice have
been that extradition should be declined in the absence of a
conventional or legislative provision. 1 Moore on Extradition,
21; United States v. Rauscher, 119 U. S. 407.
The power to surrender is clearly included within the treatymaking power and the corresponding power of appointing and
receiving ambassadors and other public ministers. Holmes v.
Jennison, 14 Pet. 540, 569. Its exercise pertains to public policy and governmental administration, is devolved on the Executive authority, and the warrant of surrender is issued by the
Secretary of State as the representative of the President in
foreign affairs.
If it be assumed in the case before us, and the papers presented on the motion for a stay advise us that such is the fact,
that the commissioner, on hearing, deemed the evidence sufficient to sustain the charges, and certified his findings and the
testimony to the Secretary of State, and a warrant for the
surrender of Terlinden on the proper requisition was duly issued, it cannot be successfully contended that the courts could
properly intervene on the ground that the treaty under which
both governments had proceeded, had terminated by reason of
the adoption of the constitution of the German Empire, notVOL. cLxxrv-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Syllabus.

withstanding the judgment of both governments to the contrary.
The decisions of the Executive Department in matters of
extradition, within its own sphere, and in accordance with the
Constitution, are not open to judicial revision, and it results
that where proceedings for extradition, regularly and constitutionally taken under the acts of Congress, are pending, they
cannot be put an end to by writs of habeas corpus.
The District Court was right, and its final order is
Affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE

HARLAN

did not hear the argument and took no

part in the decision of the case

HUGULEY MANUFACTURING COMPANY v.
TON COTTON MILLS.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 94. Argued January 15, 1902.-Decided February 24,1902.

By the act of March 3, 1891, the judgments and decrees of the Circuit
Courts of Appeals are made final in all cases in which the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court as originally invoked, is dependent entirely on diversity of citizenship.
If after the jurisdiction has attached on that ground, issues are raised and
decided, bringing the case within either of the classes defined in section
five of the act, the case may be brought directly to this court, although
it may be carried to the Circuit Court of Appeals, in which event the
final judgment of that court cannot be reviewed in this court as of right.
If the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court rests solely on the ground that the
suit arose under the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States,
then the jurisdiction of this court is exclusive, but if it is placed on diverse citizenship, and also on grounds independent of that, then if carried
to the Circuit Court of Appeals, the decision of that court would not be
made final by the statute.
The use of the words "or otherwise" in the statute, when it provides that
cases in which the decrees or judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals

