WILSON v. STANDEFER.
Statement of the Case.

ther refer to them than to say they are in our opinion not well
founded.
We think the conclusions arrived at by the court below are
correct, and its judgment is, therefore,
Ajirmed.

WILSON v. STANDEFER.
ERROR TO THE

COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS

FOR THE THIRD SU-

PREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 105. Argued January 16, 1902.-Decided March 3, 1902.

This court, when reviewing the final judgment of a state court upholding
a state enactment alleged to be in violation of the contract clause of the
Constitution, possesses paramount authority to determine for itself the
existence or the non-existence of the contract set up, and whether its obligation has been impaired by the state enactment; but it is the duty of
this court to follow the decision of the state court when the question is
one of doubt and uncertainty.
The sole question for the consideration of this court in this case is, whether
the Supreme Court of Texas erred in overruling the contention of the plaintiff in error that the State was precluded by contract from changing its
mode of procedure in respect to purchasers in default; and this court
agrees with the Supreme Court of Texas that no contract rights of a
purchaser under the act of July 8, 1879, were impaired by the subsequent
act of August 20, 1897; that the 12th section of the act of 1879, was not,
in legal contemplation a stipulation by the State that the only remedy
which might be resorted to by the State was the one therein provided
for; that the distinction between the obligation of a contract and a remedy given by the legislature to enforce that obligation exists in the nature of things, and, without impairing the obligation of the contract, the
remedy may be modified as the wisdom of the nation may direct.

THIS was an action brought in the district court of Tom
Green County, Texas, in May, 1899, by J. F. Standefer against
T. K. Wilson, involving the title and ownership of a tract of
]and containing 640 acres situated in said county.
At the trial a jury was waived and an agreed statement of
facts was filed, which was as follows:

OCTOBER TERMI,

1901.

Statement of the Case.

"1. The land sued for and described in plaintiff's petition, to
wit, section No. 42, district No.11, S. P. R. R. Co., in Tom
Green County, Texas, was on May 1, 1882, public free school
land, being the alternate section surveyed by said S. P. IR.R.
Co. for the public school fund of Texas and reserved under the
constitution and laws for the use and benefit of the public free
schools of Texas, and was a part of the said land, the sale of
which was authorized under the act of the legislature of Texas,
approved July 8, 1879, and the amendment thereto approved
April 6, 1881.
"2. That on the 1st day of May, 1882, said survey of land
was recognized and abstracted by the State as situated wholly
in Concho County and was so recognized, abstracted, assessed
for taxation and taxes paid thereon until the year 1891, when
-the boundary line between the counties of Concho and Tom
Green was run and established under a joint survey made by
the two counties, and said land was ascertained to be in Tom
Green, and has since said year been recognized and abstracted
by the State as situated in Tom Green County and since said
year has been assessed for taxation and the taxes paid thereon
in said Tom Green County.
"3. That the county surveyor of Concho County, in obedience
to and under the act approved July 8, 1879, and the amendment thereto approved April 6, 1881, viewed and appraised
said land under oath, as required by said act, and made return of
same to the commissioners' court of Concho County, which said
court examined and approved same, classifying as suitable only
for grazing purposes, no timber or water, and appraised it at
$1.00 per acre.
"4. That upon the completion of said appraisement the county
commissioners' court of Concho County prepared a tabulated
report of their action as to said survey, setting forth the following, to wit, 'Survey No. 42, district No. 11, 640 acres, S.
F. R. R. Co., $1 per acre, suitable only for grazing purposes,
no timber or water,' one copy of which said report was filed in
the office of the county surveyor of Concho County, one copy
forwarded to the commissioner of the general land office, and
one copy to the treasurer of the State.

WILSON v. STANDEFER.
Statement of the Case.

"5. That upon receipt of said tabulated report by the commissioner of the general land office the same was by him examined and in all things approved, and the said commissioner
of the general land office notified the county surveyor of Concho County of his approval of said tabulated report and appraisement.
"6. That thereafter, on May 1, 1882, Thomas Dolan made
his application, in writing, to the county surveyor of Concho
County to purchase said land, which said application was as
follows, to wit: 'To the surveyor of Concho County: In accordance with the provisions of an act to amend the caption
and sections 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of an act to provide for the
sale of alternate sections of land in organized counties, as surveyed by railroad companies and other works of internal improvements and set apart for the benefit of the common school
fund, to provide for the investment of the proceeds and to
repeal all laws in conflict therewith, approved July 8, 1879,
and to provide for the sale of such lands in unorganized counties, approved April 6, 1881, I hereby apply to purchase the
following land: Section No. 42, district :No. 11, Concho County,
about N. 12 miles from Kickappoo Springs, surveyed for S. P.
R. IR. Co. certificates: Beginning at N. E. corner S. P. R. R.
Co. survey 117, thence north 1900 varas, thence west 1900
varas, thence south 1900 varas, thence east 1900 varas to the
place of beginning. Date, 1st day of May, 1882. (Signed)
Thomas Dolan;' which said application was on same day filed
with said county surveyor and recorded by him May 22, 1882,
and all fees required by law paid to said surveyor.
"7. That immediately thereafter said Thomas Dolan forwarded to the state treasurer his application, with the sum of
$32, being 1-20 of the appraised value of said land at $1 per
acre, and said treasurer entered a credit on his books in the
name of said Dolan, and thereafter, on June 22, 1882, the
state treasurer issued a receipt for said first payment as follows: Treasurer's office, Austin, Texas, June 22, 1882. Received of Maddox Bros. & A. on account of Thomas Dolan the
sum of $32, the same being first payment on section No. 42,
district No. 11, S.P. R. R. Co., of state school land in Concho
VOL. cLxxxIv-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

County under an act to provide for the sale of the alternate
sections of land set apart for the benefit of the common school
fund. Approved April 6, 1881. (Signed) F. R. Lubbock, treasurer. And said state treasurer forwarded said receipt, together
with said application, to the commissioner of the general land
office, who filed said application in his office on June 22, 1882,
and issued his certificate in lieu thereof, setting forth the amount
paid to the treasurer, and the quantity, description and valuation of the land applied for; which said certificate was by said
Thomas Dolan presented to the county surveyor of Concho
County, who thereupon surveyed the land embraced in said
original application, recorded the field notes thereof in his
office, and forwarded same to the commissioner of the general
land office and entered said land on his books July 2, 1882, as
sold to said Thomas Dolan, and he paid the said surveyor all
fees required by law.
"8. That when said surveyor received said application said
Thomas Dolan executed and delivered his obligation to the
State for the balance of the purchase money of said survey of
land, said obligation being as follows, to wit: '$608.00. Note for
purchase money, common school lands. For value received, I,
the subscriber hereto, do promise to pay to the governor of the
State of Texas and his successors in office the sum of six hundred and eight dollars, with interest thereon at the rate of 87
per annum, as hereinafter specified, the same being the purchase money for the following-described tracts of land this day
purchased by me from the State of Texas in accordance with
the terms of an act of the legislature of said State, viz., An act
to amend the caption and sections 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of an
act to provide for the sale of alternate sections of lands in
organized counties as surveyed by railroad companies and other
works of internal improvement and set apart for the benefit of
the common school fund; to provide for the investment of the
proceeds, and to repeal all laws in conflict therewith, approved
July 8, 1879, and to provide for the sale of such lands in unorganized counties, approved April 6, 1881, to wit, survey 42,
district 11, surveyed for the S. P. R. R. Co., Concho County.
I am to pay or cause to be paid into the treasury of the State

WILSON v. STANDEFER.
Statement of the Case.

of Texas, on the first day of January of each year, one twentieth of the above amount, together with the annual interest of
8 per cent, upon the unpaid principal until this entire obligation
is liquidated, and it is expressly understood that I am to comply
with all the conditions and requirements and am subject to all
the penalties contained and prescribed in the above-recited act.
Witness my hand this the 1st day of May, 1882. (Signed)
Thomas Dolan;' which said obligation was forwarded to the
commissioner of the general land office and by him registered
in a book kept for that purpose, setting forth the name of the
purchaser, the amount and date of the obligation, the tract of
land for which it was given, and the county in which situated,
and endorsed said obligation as follows: 'Registered June 22,
1882. W. C. Walsh, commissioner of the general land office,'
and delivered said obligation to the treasurer of the State, who
filed the same in his office.
"9. That said Thomas Dolan and his vendees paid on account
of interest on said obligation as the same accrued the sum of
$272.65, which was received and applied as interest thereon,
but the other payments of principal, except the first payment
of one twentieth of-the appraised value of said land, to wit, $32,
which paid at the time of his said application to purchase, as
aforesaid, was deferred, as authorized and permitted by said act.
"10. That thereafter said Thomas Dolan sold said land and
conveyed it by deed in proper form to H. Buckley, duly acknowledged and recorded and filed in the land office, and thereafter by regular and constructive chain of transfers said title
vested in the Ostrander & Loomis Land & Live Stock Company
on April 4, 1888, all of which said conveyances being properly
acknowledged and duly recorded and filed as required by law,
each of said vendees in succession assuming to pay to the State
the balance of the purchase money and interest, as provided in
the obligation of said Dolan.
"11. That said land, among others, was mortgaged by said
Ostrander & Loomis Laud & Live Stock Company to the Knickerbocker Trust Company to secure payment of $600,000.00 due
holders of its coupon bonds; that in 1892 said Ostrander &
Loomis Land & Live Stock Company became insolvent and

OCTO3ER TERI,

1901.

Statement of the Case.

unable to meet any of its obligations, and in a suit in the district court of Tom Green County, brought to foreclose said
mortgage, judgment was entered on the 17th day of May, 1898,
foreclosing the same and ordering the sale of the land so mortgaged, including said survey 42 described in plaintiff's said petition; that an order of sale issued in due form and time on said
judgment, and said survey of land, with others, was sold thereunder by the sheriff of Tom Green County, after due and legal
notice, on the first Tuesday in July, 1898, being the fifth day
of said month, when the land described in plaintiff's petition
was bid in by T. K. Wilson, defendant herein, with some other
lands, for the sum of $3250, the amount of his bid paid, and
the said sheriff executed to him a deed in due and legal form,
properly acknowledged, conveying to him the title of the said
Ostrander & Loomis Land & Live Stock Company, and was on
the same day filed and duly recorded in Tom Green County.
"12. That on the 20th day of August, 1897, the commissioner of the general land office of Texas, acting under and by
virtue of the authority conferred upon him by the act of the
legislature of Texas, entitled ' An act to authorize the commissioner of the general land office to forfeit all lands heretofore
sold by the State under any of the various acts of the legislature for failure to pay any portion of the interest thereon, approved March 25, 1897,' endorsed on the application of said
Thomas Dolan given as aforesaid 'Land forfeited,' and caused
an entry to that effect to be made on the account kept of said
Thomas Dolan, purchased as aforesaid, and declared said land
forfeited to the State without the necessity of reentry or judicial ascertainment, and had said land duly and regularly reclassified under chapter 12 A, title 87, of Revised Civil Statutes of
Texas of 1895 and the amendment thereto, chapter 129, Gen-

eral Laws of Texas of 1897.
"13. That the commissioner of the general land office did
not at any time prior to the forfeit entered and declared on the
20th day of August, 1897, notify the county or district attorney
of the county in which said land was situated of the failure of
said Thomas Dolan or his vendees to pay any interest due on
the said obligation of Thomas Dolan hereinbefore mentioned,

WILSON v. STANDEFER.
Statement of the Case.

and neither the county nor district attorney of the county in
which said land is situated caused any writ to be served upon
said Thomas Dolan or his vendees or the mortgagee or beneficiaries thereunder, all of whom resided at said date in Concho
and Tom Green Counties, requiring him, them, or any or either of
them to show cause why he or they should not be ejected from
said laud, and no judgment was rendered in any court against
said Thomas Dolan or any or either of his vendees or the mortgagee or beneficiary under the mortgage aforesaid awarding a
writ of possession against him or them in favor of the State,
and no copy of any such judgment was forwarded to the state
treasurer and commissioner of the general land office, as required by section 12 of the said act approved July 8, 1879, and
no proceedings whatever were had as required and provided
by said section 12 of the act aforesaid, but said forfeiture was
entered and declared on August 20, 1897, without any judicial
proceedings whatever in any court of Texas, and no judicial
proceedings of any kind or character have ever been had by the
State to forfeit or rescind the sale made to Thomas Dolan, as
hereinbefore set out, or to recover on or enforce his obligation
given, as aforesaid, for the purchase money of said land, but
said forfeiture was made under said act of March 25, 1897, and
was without regntry or judicial ascertainment and without any
actual or personal notice to said Dolan or any of his vendees or
to the mortgagees or beneficiaries aforesaid.
"14. The commissioner of the general land office of Texas,
after the forfeiture entered and declared, as aforesaid, on August 20, 1897, classified said land described in plaintiff's petition
as dry grazing land, and appraised and valued the same at $1
per acre, and placed the same upon the market for sale, and
notified in writing the county clerk of Tom Green County on
September 11, 1897, of the valuation placed by him upon the
said land, and that said land was offered for sale, which said
notification was duly recorded on September 11, 1897, by the
said clerk in a book for that purpose in his office; and it is
agreed that in the classification, valuation and the placing of
said land on the market September 11, 1897, everything was
done as required and in strict compliance with chapter 12 A,

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

title 87, Revised Civil Statutes of Texas of 1895, and the amendment thereto, chapter 129, General Laws of Texas of 1897.
"15. That thereafter, on September 13, 1897, plaintiff J. F.
Standefer, residing upon with his family and being an actual
settler on said land, made his application, in writing, as required
by law, and on the form adopted and prescribed by the commissioner of the general land office, to purchase said survey 42,
district 11, S.P. R. R. Co., 640 acres, in Tom Green County, as
an actual settler thereon, at the valuation and classification
placed thereon by said commissioner, to wit, $1 per acre, as dry
grazing land, and accompanied his said application with his
affidavit, stating that he desired to purchase said land for a
home, that he had in good faith settled thereon, and that he
was not acting in collusion with others for the purpose of buying the land for any other person or corporation, and that no
other person or corporation was interested in the purchase
thereof, which said application was forwarded by said J. F.
Standefer to the commissioner of the general land office, together with his obligation to the State, duly executed, binding
him to pay to the State on the first day of November of each
year thereafter until the whole purchase money was paid one
fortieth of the aggregate price of said land, with interest, at the
rate of three per cent per annum, on the whole unpaid purchase
money, payable on the first day of November of each year, and
upon the same day that he forwarded his application and obligation to the commissioner of the general land office he also
transmitted to the state treasurer $16, being one fortieth of the
aggregate purchase money for said land at $1 per acre; and
thereafter on October 25, 1897, the commissioner of the general
land office awarded said land to him under his said application
to purchase as aforesaid and notified him on that date of said
award, and the said Standefer has since said purchase paid all
interest 'due upon his said obligation to the State and has continuously resided upon said land as a home and is now residing
thereon, and he has in all things strictly complied with the
said laws of 1895 and 1897 and the regulations adopted by said
commissioner of the general land office.
"16. That on April 25, 1899, defendant T. K. Wilson, through

WILSON v. STANDEFER.
Statement of the Case.

his attorneys, tendered to the state treasurer all interest and
principal due on account of said Thomas Dolan purchase, as
aforesaid, as is fully shown by the following certificate of said
state treasurer, to wit: I I, John W. Robbins, treasurer of the
State of Texas, do hereby certify that Messrs. Hill & Wright
have tendered to this department all interest and principal due
on account for section No. 42, in district No. 11, S. P. IR.R.
Co., in Tom Green County, sold to Thomas Dolan under act of
April 6, 1881, which cannot be accepted for the reason that
the account for said land under said act has been forfeited for
non-payment of interest to January 1, 1896. In testimony
whereof I hereunto set my hand and affix the seal of office, at
Austin, Texas, this the 29th day of April, 1899. John W.
Robbins, state treasurer, by R. C. Roberdeau, chief clerk and
acting treasurer. (Seal.)'
"And on the same day Wilson, by his attorneys, made written application to the commissioner of the general land office
for a patent on said survey under said Dolan purchase, and
tendered to said commissioner the patent fee of $6, and the
commissioner of the general land office refused to issue said
patent for the reason that it appeared from the records of his
office that the sale to Thomas Dolan was made under the act of
1879 and amendment thereto of 1881, and that the Dolan purchase of this land was forfeited August 20, 1897, by the commissioner of the general land office for non-payment of interest
and because this land was afterwards, on September 13, 1897,
sold to J. F. Standefer.
"17. It is further agreed that at the time of said forfeiture,
August 20, 1897, the State did not pay or offer to pay to Thomas
Dolan or any of his vendees the purchase money on said land
or any of the interest paid on said obligation and has not since
paid or offered to pay any part of said principal or interest, and
the said obligation of Thomas Dolan, executed May 1, 1882, as
aforesaid, has not been returned or offered to be returned to
said Dolan or his vendees or said Wilson, but the same is still
held and retained by the state treasurer."
On May 27,1899, the district court entered judgment in favor
of the defendant. Thereupon an appeal was taken to the Court

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

of Civil Appeals of the Third Supreme Judicial District of Texas,
and by that court certain questions were certified to the Supreme
Court of Texas, viz.: "1. Did the State, through its commissioner
of the land offce, without judicial proceedings, have the authority
to legally declare a forfeiture of the Dolan title on account of
the failure to pay the interest, as stated? 2. Are the principles
of law, as decided by the Supreme Court of -this State in the
case of .Iistoe v. Blum, 45 S. W. 998, applicable and controlling
of the question certified?"
On January 15, 1900, the Supreme Court of Texas filed an
opinion answering the certified questions in the affirmative, and
directing that a copy of the opinion should be certified to the
Court of Civil Appeals for the Third Supreme Judicial District,
and that said cause be therein proceeded with in accordance
with said opinion.
On February 7, 1900, the Court of Civil Appeals, in accordance with the opinion of the Supreme Court, reversed the judgment of the district court, and rendered judgment in favor of
Standefer, the appellant. Thereupon a petition was filed in the
Supreme Court of Texas by T. K. Wilson for a writ of error
to the Court of Civil Appeals, but this application was by the
Supreme Court refused. Thereafter a writ of error, bringing
the cause to this court, was allowed by the Chief Justice of the
Court of Civil Appeals.
.Mr. Ja'ed W. Hill for plaintiff in error.
No

appearance for defendant in error.

MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS,

after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The Federal question in this case is founded upon the contention that the act of July 8, 1879, under which the land was purchased by Dolan, having provided in its twelfth section for the
forfeiture of the contract of purchase, in event of default in payment of annual interest, by a judicial proceeding, such section
became part of the obligation of the contract between the State

WILSON v. STANDEFER.
Opinion of the Court.

and the purchaser, which was impaired by the subsequent act
of August 20, 1897, authorizing a forfeiture without judicial
ascertainment or proceedings, and that therefore the proceedings under the last mentioned act were null and void, as a violation of section 10, article 1, of the Constitution of the United
States.
As the Supreme Court of Texas overruled that contention,
and as the Civil Court of Appeals entered the final judgment
in the case in accordance with the opinion of the Supreme Court,
the question is properly before us for determination.
The reasoning upon which the Supreme Court of Texas proceeded can be best presented by the following extracts from its
opinion, as it appears in this record:
"The act of 1897, under which the commissioner took the
action the effect of which is in question, authorized the commissioner, when any portion of the interest due by purchasers
of such land has not been paid, to declare a forfeiture of the
purchase without judicial aid, and gave to his action the effect
of putting an end to the contract. That this statute by its terms
applies to cases such as this is not disputed.
"We think it clear that all the terms of the contract between
the State and a purchaser under the act of 1879 are contained
in sections 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10, above outlined, and their rights,
the obligations of their contract, arises from a compliance with
those provisions. The contract there provided for is an executory contract of sale and purchase, which arises upon an acceptance of and compliance with the stated terms of the offer made
by the State for the sale of the lands. The purchaser presents
his application, makes the cash payment, causes the land to be
surveyed and executes his obligation to perform the things to
be done in the future. The contract then is complete, and its
terms are fixed. Jumbo Cattle Co. v. Bacon, 79 Texas, 12.
Both the State and the purchaser are bound so long as there is
compliance with the obligation-the purchaser to make the
further payments, and the State, upon completion thereof, to
grant the land to the purchaser; but no title passes, and a right
of rescission in the State may arise just as it might arise in an
individual upon default in performance on the part of the other
party.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

"This right might be exercised by legislative act or by the
act of some officer properly empowered thereto. The statute
of 1879 does not give authority to any officer to rescind without judicial action; but the right of rescission existed in the
State, and its exercise might be subsequently authorized through
the lawmaking power, and an exercise of it, based upon the default of the other party, would not be a denial of any right of
his. It could only be held that the right of rescission for default of the purchaser did not exist by holding that the contract
provided that it should not exist, or that it should be exercised
in a particular manner; but the contract embraces no such provision. There is no undertaking on the part of the State with
the purchaser that the remedy prescribed in this statute, and
no other, shall be pursued, unless it is to be implied from the
mere presence of the provision in the statute, and we think it
is well settled that no such implication arises. In the proposition often stated in the decisions that parties contract with reference to existing laws, and that such laws become a part of
the contract, the reference is to those laws which determine
and fix the obligation of the contract, the correlative rights and
duties springing from it and not to laws of mere procedure
prescribing remedies. With reference to these, there is ordinarily no obligation arising, but the contract is made in contemplation of the power of the legislature to change them. Of
course, all remedy cannot be taken away, nor can the existing
remedy be so altered as to take away or impair any of the
rights given by the contract as interpreted by existing law. It
is also true that a specific remedy, provided by the contract itself, cannot be changed by legislation, because it constitutes a
part of the contract. -Loan Co. v. Hardy, 85 Tex. 610. But
none of these limitations on legislative power are applicable to
this legislation. The act of 1897 simply enforces a right which
existed in the State from the formation of the contract. It
takes away no right of the purchaser, unless it can be said that
he had the right to demand that the particular remedy provided
by the act of 1879 should be followed. This could only be true
if the contract made that remedy exclusively applicable, which
was not the case.

WILSON v. STANDEFER.
Opinion of the Court.

"That prompt payment of interest instalments was made an
essential part of this contract is made very clear by the terms
of the statute, as well as by its purpose, to provide available
funds annually for the support of the public schools, and that a
breach of his obligation to make such payment on the part of
the purchaser gave the State a right to rescind, is equally clear.
If the facts did not exist to authorize the action taken by the
commissioner, that could be made to appear whenever such action came in question, and thus the purchaser could be deprived
of no right by such action. The statute would only be taken
as authorizing rescission when the right of rescission existed."
It will be observed that, in this opinion, the Supreme Court
of Texas concedes that a contract of sale and purchase of land
between the State and Dolan was created by the transactions
as they are admitted to have taken place. It is also conceded
that it was competent for the parties to have provided, as a
substantive part of the contract, special remedies, each against
the other, for the enforcement -of their respective obligations,
and that, in such a case, neither party could, without the consent of the other, resort to any form of remedy other than those
stipulated for. But the court held that, in the present case,
there was no undertaking on the part of the State with the purchaser that the remedy prescribed for the State in the act of
1879, and no other, should be pursued, if the purchaser should
fail to comply with his part of the contract; that section 12 of
the act was not a contract with purchasers, but was a general
law of the State, regulating its method of procedure against delinquent purchasers, and that purchasers in default had no vested
rights in the form of remedy reserved by the State in its own
behalf.
We are first confronted with a question of construction. The
Supreme Court of Texas having held that section 12 was a law,
and not a term of a contract with a purchaser, is it open for
this court to put a different construction upon the statute? It
is settled law that this court, when reviewing the final judgment
of a state court upholding a state enactment alleged to be in
violation of the contract clause of the Constitution, possesses
paramount authority to determine for itself the existence or the

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

non-existence of the contract set up, and whether its obligation
has been impaired by the state enactment. Jefferson Bank v.
Skelly, 1 Black, 436; -Yew Orleans iaterworks v. Louisiana
Sugar Company, 125 U. S. 18; Xfobile & Ohio Railroad v.
Tennessee, 153 U. S. 486; Chicago Railroad Company v. Nebraska, 170 U. S. 57; XfcO'ullough v. Virginia, 172 U. S. 102.
But as the general rule is that the interpretation put on a
state constitution or laws by the Supreme Court of such State
is binding upon this court, and as our right to review and revise
decisions of the state courts in cases where the question is of an
impairment by legislation of contract rights, is an exception,
perhaps the sole exception, to the rule, it will be the duty of
this court, even in such a case, to follow the decision of the
state court when the question is one of doubt and uncertainty.
Especial respect should be had to such decisions when the dispute arises out of general laws of a State, regulating its exercise of the taxing power, or relating to the State's disposition of
its public lands. In such cases it is frequently necessary to recur
to the history and situation of the country in order to ascertain
the reason as well as the meaning of the laws, and knowledge
of such particulars will most likely be found in the tribunals
whose special function is to expound and interpret the state enactments.
The legislation in question in this case is one of that general
character, providing for the sale of public lands theretofore set
apart for the benefit of common schools, and was enacted in
twenty sections, on July 8, 1879. On April 6, 1881, an act was
passed, amendatory of several of the sections of the act of 1879,
but such amendments do not seem to have any important bearing on the case. On May 1, 1882, one Thomas Dolan made
an application in writing to the county surveyor to purchase the
land in question. Under the formalities of the statute, Dolan paid
down, on June 22, 1882, the sum of $32, and gave his note, dated
May 1, 1882, for the balance of the purchase money, being $608,
payable in instalments with annual interest of eight per cent
upon the unpaid principal. Thereafter Dolan sold and conveyed
said land to one Buckley, and by successive transfers, the title of
Dolan became vested, on April 4, 1888, in the Ostrander &

WILSON v. STANDEFER.
Opinion of the Court.

Loomis Land & Live Stock Company-each of the successive
vendees assuming to pay the balance of the purchase money and
interest, as provided in the obligation of Dolan. Said land
with other tracts was mortgaged by said Land & Stock Company to the Knickerbocker Trust Company to secure the payment of $600,000. In 1892 the land company became insolvent,
and in a suit in the district court of Tom Green County, to
foreclose said mortgage, judgment was entered on Kay 17,1898.
Upon a sale on said judgment on the first Tuesday of July, 1898,
the Dolan tract, with other lands, was bid in by T. K. Wilson,
the plaintiff in error, for the sum of $3250, and the sheriff executed and delivered to him a deed conveying the title of the
said Ostrander & Loomis Land & Live Stock Company.
On August 20, 1897, the commissioner of the general land
office of Texas, acting under the act of March 25, 1897, endorsed on the application of Thoman Dolan that said land was
forfeited, and restored the said land to the public domain.
Thereafter J. F. Standefer, on September 13, 1897, who was
then residing with his family and being an actual settler upon
said land, made his application in writing to purchase said land,
and on October 25, 1897, the commissioner of the land office
awarded said land to him, and Standefer paid the money down
and gave his obligation to pay the balance of the purchase
money with interest to the State, and has since said purchase
paid all interest due upon his said obligation, and has continuously resided upon said land as a home, and has in all things
strictly conformed to the laws and with the regulations adopted
by the commissioner of the general land office.
On April 25, 1899, T. K. Wilson, through his attorneys, tendered to the state treasurer all the purchase money and back
interest due on account of the Dolan purchase, and, on the same
day, demanded from the commissioner of the general land office a patent for the land. This tender and demand were refused by the officers, giving the reason that said Dolan purchase
had been forfeited on August 20, 1897, for non-payment of interest, and because said land had afterwards, on September 13,
1897, been sold to J. F. Standefer.
It therefore appears that when T. K. Wilson bid in this land

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

the interest on the Dolan purchase was in arrears from January 1, 1896, to July, 1898, and that when he made a tender to
the state treasurer, more than three years' interest was in arrears, and that, in the meantime, and before Wilson's purchase,
the land had been declared forfeited and had been sold by the
State for a valuable consideration to J. F. Standefer. While
the agreed statement of facts shows that Wilson paid $3250 for
the lands bid in by him at the sheriff's sale, it does not appear
how much, if any, of that sum was on account of the Dolan
tract. It seems to have been a lump sum for all the lands bought
by Wilson. At the time of that sale Standefer was in actual
possession of and residing on the land in dispute. It may fairly
be presumed that when Wilson bid at the sheriff's sale he knew
of the forfeiture and sale of the Dolan tract, for they were matters of record. But whether this were true or not, he certainly
had notice of an existing outstanding title by Standefer's actual
possession, a fact admitted in the agreed statement of facts.
But whatever may have been the views of the state courts
as to the legal rights and equities between the parties, the sole
question for our consideration is whether the Supreme Court
of Texas erred in overruling the contention of the plaintiff in
error that the State was precluded by contract from changing
its mode of procedure in respect to purchasers in default.
There seems to be no ground for complaint by the plaintiff
in error in point of equity. His counsel does, indeed, contend
that he was deprived by the change of remedy of a right to
have the forfeiture declared by a judicial proceeding, and that
he was thereby deprived of his property without due process
of law. But this argument is refuted by the fact that the only
question on which be had a right to be heard was whether he
had made payment in compliance with his part of the contract.
By the twelfth section of the act of July, 1879, the purchaser
was shut up to the defence whether he had paid the annual
interest as provided for in his agreement. True he had a right
to show that he had made the requisite payments, and thus defeat the forfeiture. But he had the same right and privilege
under the act of March, 1897, which expressly provided that
"the purchaser of said land shall have the right, at any time

WILSON v. STANDEFER.
Opinion of the Court

within six months after such endorsement of 'Lands forfeited'

to institute a suit in the district court of Travis County, Texas,
against the commissioner of the general land office, for the purpose of contesting such forfeiture and setting aside the same,
upon the ground that the facts did not exist authorizing such
forfeiture, but if no such suit has been instituted as above provided, such forfeiture of the commissioner of the general land
office shall then become fixed and conclusive; and provided,
that if any purchaser shall die, or shall have died, his heirs or
legal representatives shall have one year in which to make payment after the first day of November next after such death."
What would have been the rights of the parties, if time had
not been given by the last statute within which to contest the
forfeiture evidenced by the commissioners' endorsement, is a
question not now necessary to be decided.
It is apparent that the purchaser was not deprived by the act
of 1897 of the right to be heard in a court of justice as to the
fact of payment. His position under that act was quite as
favorable as under the prior act of 1879. It is scarcely necessary to say that this court, when asked to revise proceedings
in state courts, have always held that due process of law is afforded litigants if they have an opportunity to be heard at any
time before final judgment is entered. Walker v. Sauvinet, 92
U. S. 90; Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97; Stpencer v.
MAreant, 125 U. S. 345; Gallvp v. Schmidt, 183 U. S. 300,
307; Zing v. .Mllins, 171 U. S. 404.
Neither Dolan nor any of the successors to his title availed
of the opportunity to be judicially heard afforded by the law;
and the reason for not doing so clearly appears in the admitted
fact that the payments were in arrears for a considerable period
of time. The tender made, if it could have had any legal effect
at any time, was manifestly too late after the State had declared the forfeiture and sold the land to another.
Upon the whole, we agree with the conclusion of the Supreme
Court of Texas, that no contract rights of a purchaser under
the act of 1879 were impaired by the provisions of the subsequent act of 1897; that the twelfth section of the act of 1879,
was not, in legal contemplation, a stipulation by the State that'

OCTOBER TERM , 1901.
Counsel for Parties.

the only remedy which might be resorted to by the State was
the one therein provided for; that, in the language of Chief
Justice Marshall, "the distinction between the obligation of a
contract and a remedy given by the legislature to enforce that
obligation exists in the nature of things, and without impairing
the obligation of the contract, the remedy may certainly be
modified as the wisdom of the nation may direct." Sturges v.
Crowninshield, 4 Wheat. 122.
The judgment of the Court of Civil Appeals for the Third
Judicial District of the State of Texas is
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. RIO GRANDE DAM AND IRRIGATION COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW
MEXICO.

No. 239. Argued November 14,15, 1901.-Decided March 3, 1902.

The motion made in the court below on behalf of the United States for a
continuance of this cause and the application for a rehearing were ad-

dressed to the discretion of the trial court, and this court cannotreverse
the decree below merely upon the ground that the trial court erred in its
denial of those motions; but, as it is quite clear that the record does not
contain evidence of a material character, and that the absence of such

evidence is due to the action of the trial court in not giving sufficient
time to the Government to prepare its case, this court cannot resist the
conviction that if it proceeds to a final decree upon the present record
great wrong may be done; and it reverses the decree below, without considering the merits, and remands the case with orders that leave should
be granted to both sides to adduce further evidence.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.M. .farsden C. Burch for the United States, appellants.

.Mr.J. Hf. .cGowan for appellees.

