CLEVELAND TRUST CO. v. LANDER.
Statement of the Case.

ing him the legal title to the property purchased with his own
money.
The judgment should be
Affirmed.

CLEVELAND TRUST COMPANY v. LANDER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 88. Argued January 10, 102.-Decided February 24,1902.

What the constitution of the State of Ohio requires or what the statutes of
that State require as to taxation, must be left in this case to be decided
by the Supreme Court of the State, and its decision is not open to review
or objection here.
The manner of taxation in this case being legal under the statutes of the
United States, its effect cannot be complained of in Federal tribunals.

THIs is a writ of error, to review the judgment-of the Supreme
Court of the State of ,Ohio, which sustained the ruling of the
Court of Common Pleas of Cuyahoga County, dismissing upon
the demurrer of the defendant in error the petition of the plaintiff in error praying for an order and decree restraining the
collection of taxes levied upon the shares of the stockholders of
'plaintiff in error. 62 Ohio, 266.
The plaintiff (plaintiff in error was plaintiff in the court below) is a banking corporation with a capital stock of $500,000,
divided into 5000 shares of $100 each, all of which are paid up,
and for which certificates are outstanding and owned by a large
number of persons, most of whom reside in Ohio.
The plaintiff made in due time return of its resources and
liabilities, in accordance with section 2765 of the Revised Statutes of Ohio, to the auditor of the county, together with a full
statement of the names and residences of the stockholders of
the company, and with the number of shares held by each and
the par value thereof, as required by the statute. The return
included its real estate and one hundred and seventy-four bonds

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

of the United States of the denomination of $1000 each, "then
and for a long time prior thereto owned by the plaintiff and in
which the plaintiff had invested its capital stock." The plaintiff valued these bonds at the sum of $213,274.81, and in its
return deducted that sum from the $500,000 par value of paidin capital stock included among the liabilities of the plaintiff,
leaving a balance of $286,725.19.
The county auditor refused to allow the deduction of the
government bonds, and fixed the value of the shares of the capital stock at $338,700, exclusive of the assessed value of the real
estate. No notice of this action was given plaintiff or its stockholders, nor did plaintiff or its stockholders know until the 11th
of November, 1898, that said bonds had been included in fixing
the valuation of the shares of the bank.
It is alleged in the petition that it is the custom of banks and
banking institutions throughout the State of Ohio to deduct
the value of government bonds from the paid-in capital stock
returned, "although not so apparent upon the face of their returns to the several county auditors ; that said bonds were by
the banks and banking associations of this State so deducted in
the return for 1897; that similar deductions of the United States
government bonds are likewise made by unincorporated banks
in the State of Ohio under and by virtue of the Revised Statutes
of the State of Ohio, sec. 2759; that the auditor of Cuyahoga
County and the county auditors elsewhere throughout the State,
as this plaintiff is informed and believes, did not include United
States government bonds so owned in fixing the total value for
1898 of the shares of the several incorporated banks of Ohio, as
directed by section 2766 of the Revised Statutes of Ohio."
The county auditor entered the valuation of the property of
plaintiff, including said government bonds, upon the tax duplicate of the county, and assessed taxes against the same at the
rate of .02955 cents on each dollar's valuation of the shares, making an excess of taxation of $4283.71, and that that sum stands
against said shareholders upon the tax duplicate in the bands of
the defendant, "together with the remaining amount of taxes
lawfully assessed against them upon the valuation so fixed by
the county auditor."

CLEVELAND TRUST CO. v. LANDERS.
Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiff tendered the sum which it regarded as legally
due, and alleged the grounds upon which it claimed equitable
relief.
The error in the judgment of the Supreme Court of the State
is assigned as follows:
"First. The court erred in affirming the judgment of the circuit court in sustaining the judgment of the Court of Common
Pleas on the demurrer of the defendant to the petition of the
plaintiff.
"Second. The court erred in holding and deciding that the
Cleveland Trust Company was not entitled, in making its
statement to the auditor of Cuyahoga County, Ohio, under section 2765 of the Revised Statutes of Ohio, to deduct, for the
purpose of taxation, from its capital and surplus, the amount of
the United States government bonds owned by it under and by
virtue of section 3701 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States, as claimed in the original petition of the plaintiff."
2fr. James Rudolph Garfteld for plaintiff in error. Mr.
Harry A. Garfteld and -Mr. Frederic C. Howe were on his
brief.
-Mr.P. H. Kaiserfor defendant in error.
on his brief.
MR. JUSTicE McKENNA,

.r 0. L. _ef was

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The argument of the plaintiff in error claims a greater immunity from taxation for the shares of the Trust Company than
section 5219 of the Revised Statutes of the United States gives
to shares in national banks. That section permits the States to
assess and tax the shares of shareholders in national banks, with
the limitations only "that the taxation shall not be at any
greater rate than ,is assessed upon other moneyed capital in the
hands of individual citizens of such State;" and that the shares
of non-residents "shall be taxed in the city or town where the
bank is located, and not elsewhere." The prayer of the petition
VOL. oLXXXv-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

is also opposed by decisions of this court. In Van Allen v. The
Amessors, 3 Wall. 573, the provision contained in section 5219
-then a part of the act of Congress of June 3, 1864--came up
for consideration. There was a dispute as to the meaning of
the statute, and its validity was also assailed. The court asserted a distinction between the property of the bank and corporation as such, and the property of the shareholders as such,
and held that the tax authorized by the statute was a tax on
the shares, the property of the shareholder, not a tax on the
capital of a bank, the property of the corporation. The validity of the statute was sustained, and interpreting it the court
said that it authorized the taxation of such shares, and shares
were defined to be the whole interest of the holder without diminution on account of the kind of property which constituted
the capital stock of the bank. Of the provisions of the act expressing this purpose and the right of the State to tax the court
said nothing "could be made plainer or more direct and comprehensive." The case was subsequeutly affirmed. 4 Wall. 244;
4 Wall. 259; 121 U. S. 138.
The plaintiff concedes the distinction between the property
of the corporation represented by its capital stock and the
property of the shareholders represented by their shares, and
bases an argument upon that distinction, and yet excludes from
consideration, as immaterial to the questions at issue, the laws
of Congress governing the taxation of the shares. The reasoning advanced is that under the laws and constitution of the
State of Ohio the property of the trust company "must be and
is subject to taxation ;" and "that the sections of the statutes
of the State of Ohio which provide the method for determining
this tax value, so far as they apply to such trust company, simply
prescribe a convenient method for arriving at the true value in
money of the property of the corporation." And the deduction is made "that, in determining the value of such property
for taxation, the trust company is entitled to deduct from its
capital and surplus the value of the United States government
bonds then owned by it." In other words, the contention is
that the tax on the shares being equivalent to a tax on the
property of the trust company, there must be deducted from

VOIGT v. DETROIT CITY.
Syllabus.

the value of the shares that portion of the capital of the company invested in the United States bonds.
The answer to the contention is obvious and may be brief.
The contention destroys the separate individuality recognized,
as we have seen, by this court, of the trust company and its
shareholders, and seeks to nullify one provision of the Revised
Statutes of the United States (section 5219) by another (section
3701), between which there is no want of harmony. And what
the constitution of the State of Ohio requires, or what the
statutes of the State require as to taxation, must be left to be
decided by the Supreme Court of the State, and whether that
court has decided, logically or illogically, that a tax authorized
by the laws of the United States on the shares of the company
satisfies the' constitution of the State as a tax on the corporation, is not open to our review or objection. The manner of
taxation being legal under the statutes of the United States,
its effect cannot be complained of in the Federal tribunals. We
do not mean to be understood as implying that the plaintiff's
view of the constitution of the State, or of the laws of the State,
is correct. The inquiry is not necessary. Accepting such view
as correct, plaintiff shows no right, under the Constitution or
laws of the United States, which has been violated.
Judgment cjjimed.
MR. JusTICE HARLhAN did not hear the argument and took no

part in the decision.

VOIGT v. DETROIT CITY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 83. Argued December 6,1901.-Decided February 24,1902.
The Supreme Court of the State of Michigan having decided that the
amount of taxes in a case like the present which may be assessed upon
a district, or upon any given parcel of land therein cannot exceed the
benefits, on a hearing given him the property owner could have shown

