OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

rections; that it was not finally mailed for signature until the
27th of July, 1892, and that it was not signed by the contractors
until some day between the 27th of July and the 1st of August, 1892. On the faith of the agreement executed by the
contracting officer, but without his knowledge or direction, the
contractors proceeded to make ready for their work and, indeed,
performed, to some extent, incurring thereby a loss of $678.21."
And further, that "the work was done without the knowledge or direction of the officer in charge, and no benefit resulted
thereby to the defendants" (United States).
Judgment affirmed.

MISSOURI, KANSAS AND TEXAS RAILWAY CO-kPANY v. ELLIOTT.
ERROR TO THE KANSAS CITY COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE STATE OF
MISSOURI.
No. 148. Argued and submitted January 29, 30,1902.-

Decided March 10, 1902.

The Supreme Court of Missouri having necessarily decided that the Kansas
City Court of Appeals, in passing upon the claim of immunity in this
case, was the final court of Missouri where such question could be decided,
it follows that the writ of error properly ran to the Kansas City Court of
Appeals, and that the claim of absence of jurisdiction was without foundation.
For the reasons given in the opinion of the court in Tullock v. Mulvane,
ante, 497, that there was error committed by the Kansas City Court of
Appeals in affirming the action of the trial court in allowing in the judgment rendered by it, attorneys' fees as an element of damage upon the
injunction bond, contrary to the controlling rule on this subject enunciated by this court, by which the courts of the United States are governed
in requiring the execution of such instruments.
THE

action below was brought by Elliott in the state circuit

court of Cooper County, Missouri, against the railway company,

plaintiff in error herein. Recovery was sought upon an injunction bond given in an equity cause in a suit in the Circuit Court

MISSOURI, KANSAS &c. R'Y CO. v. ELLIOTT.

531

Statement of the Case.

of the United States for the Central Division of the Western
District of :issouri. The railway company was complainant
in the equity cause and Elliott was defendant. The Circuit
Court of the United States, as the result of a mandate of the
Circuit Court of Appeals, entered an order dissolving the injunction, and thereupon this action was commenced. The damages which it was alleged were embraced in the condition of
the bond were averred to consist of payments made for attorneys' fees, traveling and other similar expenses of the plaintiff,
asserted to have been disbursed during the course of the litigation in the United States court.
The answer consisted of a general denial, and alleged that
the equity suit in which the bond was given was made necessary to enable the defendant to make its defence to an action at
law, which had prior to the equity suit been brought against the
railway company by Elliott. The cause was tried by the court
without a jury. It appeared on the trial that in dismissing the
bill in the equity cause the statutory allowance to attorneys
and other costs had been taxed, and paid by the complainants
in the equity cause in the United States Circuit Court. No
objection was interposed at the trial to evidence introduced for
the plaintiff as to the value of attorneys' services and the other
sums disbursed for the expenses alleged in the petition. At the
close of the trial the court, over the objection of the defendant,
declared the law to be that the plaintiff was entitled to recover
his reasonable personal expenses and reasonable attorneys' fees
incurred for the services of attorneys in procuring the dissolution of the injunction. The following, among other prayers
asked by the defendant, were refused:
"2. The court declares the law to be that the plaintiff is not
entitled to recover as damages on the injunction bond sued on
any sum which he may have paid out. or become liable for as
attorneys' fees."
"5. The court declares the law to be that the plaintiff, having
received the amount taxed in his favor as attorneys' fees as part
of the costs in the equity suit mentioned in the pleadings and
evidence in this case, he cannot now recover anything on account of attorneys' fees in this case."

OCTOBER TERI, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

Judgment having been entered in favor of plaintiff and a
motion for a new trial having been overruled, an appeal was
taken to the Kansas City Court of Appeals, and the judgment
was affirmed. In the course of its opinion the court recited
the contentions of the defendant, and held each of them to be
untenable. These contentions were thus stated by the court:
"1. Defendant's objections to the judgment below may be
thus stated: First, that there was no breach of the conditions
of the bond in that it was not alleged or proved that any damages had been previously adjudged against the defendant,
whereas the condition of the bond is that defendant 'should
pay all sums of money damages and costs that shall be adjudged against it,' etc. ; and, secondly, it is contended that as
the injunction bond was given in a proceeding pending in the
United States court, the damages must be fired and determined
according to the rules and pratice of the Federal courts; that
attorneys' fees are not there considered elements of damage in
suits on injunction bonds, and that therefore our state courts
should apply the same rule in suits on bonds given in the Fed-

eral courts; and thirdly, it is insisted that the trial court erroneously allowed as damages attorneys' fees for defending the
entire case-that the injunction was merely incidental to the
principal case, and no attorneys' fees were paid to secure its
dissolution."
A motion for a rehearing was thereafter filed, in which,
among other things, it was contended that the cause involved
a Federal question, "for the reason that the controversy in
this suit arises under the authority of the United States, and
under the laws of the United States governing and applicable
to United States courts," and the court was asked in the event
that it should refuse to grant a rehearing, to transfer the case
to the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri, "for the reason
that a Federal question is involved, and because the subject o
the controversy of this suit arises under the authority of the
United States and under the exercise of such authority, and
under the laws of the United States governing and controlling
the courts of the United States and the proceedings therein.':
The motion for a rehearing having been overruled, it appears,

MISSOURI, KANSAS &c. R'Y CO. v. ELLIOTT.

533

Opinion of the Court.

from a stipulation contained in the record that an application
was made to the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri for a
writ of prohibition against the judges of the said Kansas City
Court of Appeals to restrain the further exercise of jurisdiction
in the cause, and to require the record and proceedings to be
certified to the Supreme Court. This application was denied.
154 Missouri, 300.
Thereupon the present writ of error was allowed and the
record of the cause was brought here from the Kansas City
Court of Appeals.
X1r. George P. B. Jackoson for plaintiff in error.
.'r.

Wiliam X. Williams for defendant in error.

1MH. Jusrian

WmTE,

after making the foregoing statement,

dlelivered the opinion of the court.
The proposition relied upon to secure the reversal of the
judgment below is that the state court erroneously allowed
as an element of damage upon an injunction bond given in
i court of the United States the sum of alleged counsel fees
for procuring a dissolution of the injunction, and that as such
fees under the rule prevailing in the equity courts of the
United States are not properly allowable, therefore the state
3ourt denied an immunity asserted in favor of the defendant
below and arising from an authority exercised under the United
States.
We are at the outset met by an objection that there is no jurisdiction to review the judgment of the Kansas City Court of
Appeals. It is contended on behalf of the defendant in error
that the Federal question relied upon was not raised below, and
therefore is not reviewable here.
The general rule undoubtedly is that those Federal questions
which are required to be specially set up and claimed must be
so distinctly asserted below as to place it beyond question that
the party bringing the case here from the state court intended
to and did assert such a Federal right in the state court. But

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

it is equally true that even although the allegations of Federal
right made in the state court were so general and ambiguous
in their character that they would not in and of themselves necessitate the conclusion that a right of a Federal nature was
brought to the attention of the state court, yet if the state
court in deciding the case has actually considered and determined a Federal question, although arising on ambiguous averments, then a Federal controversy having been actually decided
the right of this court to review obtains. Oxley Stave Co. v.
Butler, 166 U. S. 648, 660. All that is essential is that the Federal questions must be presented in the state court in such a
manner as to bring them to the attention of that tribunal.
Chicago &c. Ry. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226. And of course,
where it is shown by the record that the state court considered
and decided the Federal question, the purpose of the statute is
subserved. And so controlling as to the existence of the Federal
question is the fact that it was actually considered and decided
by the state court, that it has been held, although the general
rule is that the raising of a Federal question in a petition for
rehearing in the highest court of the State is too late, yet when
a question is thus raised and it is actually considered and decided
by the state court, the right to review exists. Afallett v. I'orth
Carolina,181 U. S. 589, 592.
Now it plainly appears that the Kansas City Court of Appeals
considered that there was presented to it for decision the question whether, in an action brought in a state court on an injunction bond given in a court of the United States, the state court
was bound to apply to such a bond the rule prevailing in the
courts of equity of the United States, viz., that attorneys' fees
are not a proper element of damage. We say this is undoubted,
since the opinion of the Kansas City Court of Appeals recites
that such was the contention, and the court proceeded to consider and decide it. That this contention involved a claim of
immunity under an authority exercised under the United States,
reviewable in this court, we have recently decided in Tullock v.
Mfulvane. True it is that the Kansas City Court of Appeals
held, contrary to the rule announced in the Tullock case, that
the state court was not bound to apply the rule of damages pre-

MISSOURI, KANSAS &c. RY CO. v. ELLIOTT.

585

Opinion of the Court.

vailing in the courts of the United States, and in effect while
so concluding decided that the claim that the bond should be
enforced according to the rule prevailing in the courts of the
United States, involved no Federal question. But the fact that
the state court, whilst deciding the Federal question, erroneously
held that it was not a Federal one, does not take the case out
of the rule that where a Federal question has been decided below, jurisdiction exists to review. The result of the contrary
doctrine would be this, that no case where the question of Federal right had been actually decided could be reviewed here if
the state court, in passing upon the question, had also decided
that it was non-Federal in its character. The assertion that a
Federal right was not raised below is therefore without merit.
It is, however, insisted that as the writ of error in this case
was directed to the Kansas City Court of Appeals, there is no
jurisdiction, because if there was a Federal question presented
that court was not, under the constitution of the State of Missouri, the highest court of the State in which a decision on such
question could have been had.
The Kansas City Court of Appeals was created by an amendment to the constitution of Missouri adopted in 1884. Rev.
Stat. of Missouri, 1899, vol. 1, p. 92. By section I of the
amendment the said court was given the same jurisdiction over
lower courts within certain territory-embraced within which
was Cooper County-as was possessed by the St.*Louis Court
of Appeals. As provided by a prior constitution, that of 1865,
and continued by the constitution of 1875, the St. Louis Court
of Appeals was a court of general appellate jurisdiction, but its
judgments were not final in certain cases, among which were:
a, cases where the amount in dispute, exclusive of costs, exceeded the sum of $2500; b, cases involving the construction of
the Constitution of the United States or of the State of Missouri; o, cases where "the validity of a treaty or statute of or
authority exercised under the United States is drawn in question ;" as well as in other enumerated cases, not necessary to
be particularly referred to. In such cases, where the jurisdiction of the St. Louis Court of Appeals was not final, the judg-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

ment of the St. Louis Court of Appeals was reviewable by the
Supreme Court of Missouri. Ib.art. VI, sec. 12, p. 87.
By the amendment to the constitution of 1884, by which the
Kansas City Court of Appeals was created, in cases where the
action of the St. Louis Court of Appeals had been theretofore
reviewable by the Supreme Court of Missouri, it was provided
that the St. Louis Court of Appeals should no longer have appellate jurisdiction, but that writs of error, in such cases, should
run directly from the Supreme Court to the trial courts, and
this provision was made applicable to the Kansas City Court of
Appeals which the amendment created. By the amendment in
question superintending control over the trial courts in such
cases was conferred upon the Supreme Court. Ib.see. 5, p. 93.
It thus resulted that the Kansas City Court of Appeals, within
the area of territory over which its jurisdiction extended, had
no appellate jurisdiction in cases where the amount in dispute,
exclusive of costs, exceeded $2500, and where the cases involved
the construction of the Constitution of the United States or of
the State, and cases where was drawn in question the validity
of a treaty or statute of or authority exercised under the United
States, and in other cases not necessary to be mentioned.
By the amendment to the constitution of 1884, the Supreme
Court of 1issouri was expressly, moreover, given general superintending control over the courts of appeal, by mandamus, prohibition and certiorari. Ib.see. 8, p. 93.
After the Kansas City Court of Appeals had affirmed the
judgment of the Cooper County circuit court, the railway company filed a motion for a rehearing, and prayed therein that in
the event a rehearing was not granted the case should be transferred to the Supreme Court of Missouri. The motion for the
transfer of the case to the Supreme Court was pressed upon two
grounds, the second of which was, in substance, that the decision of the cause involved a Federal question, of which the Supreme Court of Missouri should take exclusive cognizance, because of its appellate jurisdiction, "in cases where the validity
of a treaty or statute of or authority exercised under the United
States is drawn in question."
The court, in overruling this motion, necessarily decided that

MISSOURI, KANSAS &c. R'Y CO. v. ELLIOTT.

531

Opinion of the Court.

the case came within its appellate jurisdiction and not within the
exclusive appellate power conferred by the constitution on
the Supreme Court of the State. This doubtless rested upon
the predicate upon which the court had based its opinion, which
was not that the issue whether attorneys' fees could be allowed
upon the bond given in the Federal court had not been raised
but, because, although that question had been raised and been
decided, it was not one of the class of questions within the purview of the exclusive jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the
State. And this seems to us to be the view held by the Supreme
Court of Missouri, when, in consequence of the refusal to transfer the cause to it, its superintending power over the Kansas
City Court of Appeals was invoked through the medium of the
application for writs of prohibition and certiorari. We so conclude, because, although in its elaborate opinion overruling the
application for the writs named, the Supreme Court declared
that the question of the power of the state court to award attorneys' fees on the injunction bond given in a court of the
United States, contrary to the rule of damages prevailing in
the courts of the United States, had been raised in the case and
had been decided by the Kansas City Court of Appeals, the
writs of prohibition and certiorari would not be allowed, because
such a question was not within the appellate jurisdiction of the
Supreme Court of Missouri, but was within the jurisdiction of
the lower appellate court. After fully stating the contention
below and its decision by the Kansas City Court of Appeals,
the Supreme Court of Missouri said:
"We fail to discover from the record, anywhere, how the
validity of a treaty or statute of, or authority exercised under
the United States is drawn in question, or that a Federal question may be said to be involved in the case."
In other words, as the exclusive appellate jurisdiction of the
Supreme Court of Missouri over cases which, by the amount involved, would otherwise have gone to the Kansas City Court of
Appeals, was conferred only in special cases, among other cases
involving the construction of the Constitution of the United
States and cases where "the validity of a treaty or statute of
or authority exercised under the United States is drawn in

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court

question," the court held that as the validity of the bond given
in the Circuit Court of the United States was not questioned,
no claim made by the defendant of immunity under an authority exercised under the United States was embraced within
the exclusive appellate jurisdiction conferred by the constitution upon the Supreme Court of Missouri, and therefore such
question had been properly determined by the Kansas City
Court of Appeals. We are constrained to this construction of
the opinion of the learned court from the fact that it elaborately discusses and demonstrates that the defence of immunity
from liability for attorneys' fees under the bond given in a
court of the United States was not an attack on the validity of
the bond, and therefore not within the cognizance of the Supreme Court of Missouri, and from the further fact that in the
course of the opinion the court said:
"iNeither the rules, the practice or procedure, nor the mode
and manner of administering the law in the United States
court, applicable to the liability of bondsmen on an injunction
bond given in that court, can in anywise be drawn in question.,
so as to _resent a Federal question, in a suit in a state court on

the bond, when the validity of the bond, as in the case of Elliott v. -Railway Co., begun in the Cooper County circuit court,
and now pending on appeal in the Kansas City Court of Appeals, is admitted, and where no question as to the court's authority to order the bond as given is or was made by the
relator."
It results, therefore, under the view we take of the opinion
of the Supreme Court of Missouri, the court decided that as
the case presented merely a claim of immunity under an authority exercised under the United States, and did not involve,
to quote the language of the Missouri constitution, the drawing in question "the validity of an authority" so exercised,
therefore, the Kansas City Court of Appeals was vested under
the constitution and laws of Missouri with final jurisdiction.
But if, however, we were to give to the opinion of the Supreme
Court of Missouri the contrary construction, the finality of the
judgment of the Kansas City Court of Appeals in this case
would be none the less apparent.

It is manifest, we conceive,

MISSOURI, KANSAS &c. R'Y CO.

'.

ELLIOTT.

Opinion of the Court.

from the opinion of the Supreme Court of Missouri, that if it
had been deemed that a Federal question not within the cognizance of the Kansas City Court of Appeals had been decided
by that court, the superintending power of control conferred
by the state constitution on the Supreme Court of Missouri
would have been exerted for the purpose of preventing the
Kansas City Court of Appeals retaining jurisdiction of the
cause. If, then, the action of the Supreme Court of Missouri
can be held not to have been rested on the phraseology of the
Missouri constitution, including within the exclusive appellate
power of the Supreme Court of Missouri not claims of immunity arising from an authority exercised under the United States,
but only cases where was drawn in question the validity of an
authority exercised under the United States, then the necessary effect of the action of the Supreme Court of Missouri was
this, that because it held to the opinion that it was impossible
for a Federal question ever to arise from a claim of immunity
resulting from the exercise of an authority under the United
States in the giving of an injunction bond in the courts of the
United States, therefore, under the constitution and laws of
Missouri, the action of the Kansas City Court of Appeals was
final.
It being then demonstrated that whatever view may be taken
of the opinion of the Supreme Court of Missouri, that court
necessarily decided that the Kansas City Court of Appeals, in
passing upon the claim of immunity, was the final court in
Missouri where such question could be decided, it follows that
the writ of error properly ran to the Kansas City Court of
Appeals, and the claim of the absence of jurisdiction is without
foundation.
Having thus diiposed of the question of jurisdiction, we come
to the merits of the case. It suffices to say, for the reasons
given in the opinion in Tullock v. - r&vane, before referred to,
that there was error committed by the Kansas City Court of
Appeals in affirming the action of the trial court in allowing,
in the judgment by it rendered, attorneys' fees as an element
of damage upon the injunction bond contrary to the controlling rule on this subject enunciated by this court, by which the

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

courts of the United States are governed in requiring the execution of such instruments.
The judgment of the Kansas City Court of Appeals must he
reversed and the cause remandedto that court with directions
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion,
and it is so ordered.

CONNOLLY v. UNION SEWER PIPE COMPANY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF
ILLINOIS.
No. 46. Argued April 22, 23, 1901.-Decided March 10, 1902.

If a claim is made in the Circuit Court that a state enactment is invalid
under the Constitution of the United States, and that claim is sustained,
or rejected, this court may review the judgment, at the instance of the
unsuccessful party.
If the alleged combination in this case was illegal, it would not follow
that they could, at common law, refuse to pay for pipes bought for thenA
under special contracts.
The contracts between the plaintiff and the respective defendants were col
lateral to the agreement between the plaintiff and other corporations
etc., whereby an illegal combination was formed for the sale of sewer
Opipe.
The first special defence in this case, based alone upon the principles of
the common law, was properly overruled.
The special defence, based upon the act of Congress of July 2, 1890, 26
Stat. 209, was also properly rejected. That act does not declare illegal
or void any sale made by such combination or its agents of property acquired for the purpose of being sold, such property not being at the
time in the course of transportation from one State to another, or to a
foreign country; and the buyer could not refuse to comply with his contract of purchase upon the ground that the seller was an illegal combination, which might be restrained or suppressed in the mode prescribed
by the act of Congress.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Henry D. Coghlan for plaintiffs in error. .21r. Joseph
A. O'Donnell was on his brief.

