UNITED STATES v. BACA.
Statement of the Case.

for cattle raising as controlling. The doctrine of the Ely case,
171 U. S. 220, was not that it was within the power of the
court to locate grants, but that if a location had been made,
and there were facts enough to nail it to the ground, and determine its true boundaries, that might be done. The data did
not exist here for the application of that principle.
The Gadsden treaty provided that grants made previously to
September 25, 1853, were not to "be respected or be considered
'as obligatory, which have not been located and duly recorded
in the archives of Mexico." We are of opinion that this grant
of two sitios is not shown, and cannot be presumed, to have
been located within the intent and meaning of the treaty. No
question, therefore, could be raised in respect of demasias, and,
moreover, as just held in Rel(j Cattle Company v. United States,
ante, 624, under the laws on that subject, the owner of the
cabida legal did not have a vested property interest in the demasias, but, under circumstances, had the preference in acquiring it, if he so desired; and claims to overplus, the conditions
to acquiring which were unperformed, were not open to confirmation by the court.
Decree, afflimed.

UNITED STATES v. BACA.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND CLAIMS.
NTo.170.

Argued January 31, 1902.-Decided February 241 1902.

Under the act of Congress of Mlarch 3, 1891, c. 539, the Court of Private
Land Claims has no jurisdiction to confirm or reject, or to pass upon
the merits of a claim to any land, the right to which has been lawfully
acted upon and decided by Congress.

THIs was a petition to the Court of Private Land Claims by

Margarito Baca for the confirmation to him, and to all other
persons interested, of the title to a tract of land in Valencia
county in New Mexico, known as the San Jose del Encinal

OCTOBER TERM[, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

tract, alleged to have been granted to Baltazar Baca and his
two sons in 1768 by the Spanish Governor and Captain General of New Mexico.
The petition prayed the court to take and exercise jurisdiction of the petition; to hear and determine all questions relative to the tract, its extent, proper location and boundaries,
and whether, when properly located, it would in any manner
conflict with any neighboring property to which there was superior title; to take cognizance of all other matters connected
therewith fit and proper to be heard and determined; and by
final decree to settle and determine the questions of the proper
location of the tract, the validity of the title, and the boundaries thereof; to finally determine and forever set at rest all
other questions properly arising between the petitioner and his
cobwners and the United States; to confirm the title of the
petitioner and his cobwners to them in fee simple; and for
further relief.
The United States, by an amended answer filed by leave of
court, alleged, among other things, that the tract demanded
lay wholly within the lands granted and confirmed by Congress to the town of Cebolleta, reported as number 30, and to
the pueblo of Laguna, reported as number 46, by the acts of
June 21, 1860, c. 167, 12 Stat. 71, and March 3, 1869, c. 152,
15 Stat. 454, respectively; and that, the right to this tract
having been thus lawfully acted upon and decided by Congress, the Court of Private Land Claims had no jurisdiction to
allow the claim of the petitioner.
The Court of Private Land Claims, upon hearing and consideration, suspended proceedings until after the decision of
this court in United States v. Conway, 175 U. S.60, and then
entered the following decree:
"This cause having heretofore come on to be heard upon the
pleadings and exhibits on file, and upon full and legal proofs
introduced and taken in the cause, both written and oral, and
upon the original and other documents regarding said claim
from file number 104 in the office of the surveyor-general of
the Territory of New Mexico and from other sources in said
office; and the court having considered the same, and having

UNITED STATES v. BAOA.
Statement of the Case.

heard counsel for all of the parties to the cause, and being fully
advised in the premises, and on due consideration thereof, doth
make the following findings of fact and law, that is to say:
"1. That in the year 1768, a valid and perfect title in fee
simple to all of the land of the sitio de San Jose del Encinal,
situated in what is now Valencia county, New Mexico, was by
the proper officers of the Spanish Government, the then sovereign power of what is now the Territory of New Mexico,
granted in equal shares unto Baltazar Baca and his two sons,
and which said tract of land, situated in said county as aforesaid, was and is described as follows, that is to say: It is bounded
on the east by a tableland; thence it extends westward five
thousand Castilian varas to a sharp-pointed black hill; on the
north it is bounded by the Cebolleta Mountain; on the south
it is bounded by some white bluffs, at whose base runs the Zumi
Road-all as the same is known and designated upon the maps,
plats and surveys in file number 104 in the office of the surveyorgeneral of the Territory of New Mexico.
"2. That such title so remained in said grantees and their
successors from thence hitherto, and up to and including the
time of the cession of the land now comprised in the Territory
of New Mexico to the United States, and has so continued from
thence to the present time.
"3. That the said grantees and their successors have from
the time of the making of said grant complied with all conditions necessary to the validity of the same.
"14. That such title in such grantees and their successors to
said tract of land was and is complete, valid and perfect, and so
was at the date of the cession of the land now comprised in the
Territory of New Mexico to the United States by the treaty of
Guadalupe Hidalgo; and the same was and is such a title as the
United States is bound to recognize and confirm by virtue of
said treaty and otherwise.
"5. That the claimant, Margarito Baca, is a lineal descendant
of the said Baltazar Baca, one of the original grantees.
"6. But the court further finds, as a matter of fact, that the
land comprised within the tract aforesaid is included within the
outboundaries of the town of Cebolleta grant, reported num-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

ber 46, and the Paguate purchase tract, reported number 30;
the said Cebolleta grant having been confirmed to the claimants
thereof by an act of Congress approved March 3, 1869, and
thereupon duly patented to said claimants by the proper authorities of the United States; and the said Paguate purchase
tract having been confirmed to the Indians of the pueblo of
Laguna by an act of Congress approved June 21, 1860, and
thereupon patented to said pueblo'by the proper authorities of
the United States.
"7. Wherefore it is considered and adjudged by the court
that a complete, valid and perfect title in and to the tract of
land above described was and is vested in the said Baltazar
Baca and his two sons and their successors in interest; but
that, notwithstanding such fact, this court is without jurisdiction, because of the patents for the said land so as aforesaid
issued by the United States, to decree and confirm the same
unto them, or to order a survey thereof for such purpose, and
for such reason no other or different relief than the pronouncing
upon the character of the claimant's title as aforesaid is or will
be granted by this court, and it is so ordered."
The United States appealed to this court.
Af. .M-aithew G. Reynolds for the United States.
.r. B. S. JRodey for Baca.
MR. JUSTiop GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The duty of securing private rights in lands within the territory ceded by Mexico to the United States by the treaties of
1848 and 1853, (whether complete and absolute titles, or merely
equitable interests needing some further act of the Government
to perfect the legal title,) and of fulfilling the obligations imposed upon the United States by the treaties, belonged to the
political department of the Government; and might either be
discharged by Congress itself, or be delegated by Congress to
a strictly judicial tribunal or to a board of commissioners.

UNITED STATES v. BACA.
Opinion of the Court.

Ainsa v. New Afexico &fArizona Railroad,175 U. S. 76, 79, and
cases there cited.
The record in this case show that the land demanded under
a grant from the Spanish authorities in 1768 had been included
in grants confirmed by acts of Congress in 1860 and 1869, and
in patents issued accordingly by the proper authorities of the
United States; and that the Court of Private Land Claims for
that reason held that it was without jurisdiction to decree and
confirm the land to the petitioners, or to order a survey thereof
for that purpose; and yet undertook to adjudge that a complete, valid and perfect title in fee simple had vested by the
Spanish grant in the grantees, and remained in them and their
successors to the present time.
This action of the Court of Private Land Claims is sought to
be justified by the following provisions of the act of Congress
of March 3, 1891, c. 539, creating that court. 26 Stat. 854.
By section 1, "said court shall have and exercise jurisdiction
in the hearing and decision of private land claims, according
to the provisions of this act."
By section 6, any person or corporation claiming lands within
the limits of the territory acquired by the United States from
the Republic of Mexico, and since within the territories of New
Mexico, Arizona or Utah, or the States of Nevada, Colorado or
Wyoming, by virtue of such a Spanish or Mexican grant as the
United States are bound by the treaties of cession to recognize
and confirm, " which at the date of the passage of this act have
not been confirmed by act of Congress, or otherwise finally decided upon by lawful authority, and which are not already complete and perfect," to present a petition stating his case and
praying that the validity of the title or claim may be inquired
into and decided. "And the said court is hereby authorized
and required to take and exercise jurisdiction of all cases or
claims presented by petition in conformity with the provisions
of this act, and to hear and determine the same, as in this act
provided, on the petition and proofs in case no answer or
answers be filed after due notice, or on the petition and the
answer or answers of any person or persons interested in preventing any claim from being established, and the answer of
VOL. cLxxxxrv-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court

the attorney for the United States where he may have filed an
answer, and such testimony and proofs as may be taken;" and
to "render a final decree according to the provisions of this
act."
By section 7, "the said court shall have full power and authority to hear and determine all questions arising in cases before
it, relative to the title to the land the subject of such case, the
extent, location and boundaries thereof, and other matters connected therewith fit and proper to be heard and determined, and
by a final decree to settle and determine the question of the validity of the title and the boundaries of the grant or claim presented for adjudication, according to the law of nations," the
stipulations of the treaties of 1848 and 1853, "and the laws and
ordinances of the government from which it is alleged to have
been derived, and all other questions properly arising between
the claimants or other parties in the case and the United States,
which decree shall in all cases refer to the treaty, law or ordinance under which such claim is confirmed or rejected."
By section 8, "any person or corporation claiming lands in
any of the States or Territories mentioned in this act under a
title derived from the Spanish or Mexican government that was
complete and perfect at the date when the United States acquired sovereignty therein, shall have the right (but shall not
be bound) to apply to said court in the manner in this act provided for other cases for a confirmation of such title; and on
such application said court shall proceed to hear, try and determine the validity of the same and the right of the claimant
thereto, its extent, location and boundaries, in the same manner
and with the same powers as in other cases in this act mentioned.
If in any such case a title so claimed to be perfect shall be
established and confirmed, such confirmation shall be for so much
land only as such perfect title shall be found to cover, always
excepting any part of such land that shall have been disposed
of by the United States, and always subject to and not to affect any conflicting private interests, rights or claims held or
claimed adversely to any such claim or title, or adversely to
the holder of any such claim or title. And no confirmation of
claims or titles in this section mentioned shall have any effect

UNITED STATES v. BACA.
Opinion of the Court.

other or further than as a release of all claim of title by the
United States; and no private right of any person as between
himself and other claimants or persons, in respect of any such
lands, shall be in any manner affected thereby."
But all the powers so conferred upon the Court of Private
Land Claims are subject to and controlled by section 13, which
enacts that "all the foregoing proceedings and rights shall be
conducted and decided subject to the following provisions, as
well as to the other provisions of this act, namely." Then
follow several provisions, the fourth of which is: "No claim
shall be allowed for any land, the right to which has hitherto
been lawfully acted upon and decided by Congress, or under
its authority."
The language of this provision appears to us too clear to be
misunderstood or evaded. The manifest intent of Congress
appears to have been that with any land, of the right to which
Congress, in the exercise of its lawful discretion, had itself
assumed the decision, the Court of Private Land Claims should
have nothing to do. The whole jurisdiction conferred upon
that court is to confirm or reject claims presented to it, coming
within the act. All the powers conferred upon it are incident
to the exercise of that jurisdiction. When it has no jurisdiction
to confirm or reject, it has no authority to inquire into or pass
upon the case, beyond the decision of the question of jurisdiction. The peremptory declaration of Congress, that "no claim
shall be allowed for any land, the right to which has hitherto
been lawfully acted upon and decided by Congress," necessarily
prohibits the court from passing upon the merits of any such
claim.
In United States v. Conway, 175 U. S. 60, it was accordingly
declared by this court that the Court of Private Land Claims
had no authority to confirm such a claim; and it necessarily
follows that it has no authority to express any opinion upon
the merits of it, when the right to all the land claimed has
already been decided by Congress. Las Animas Co. v. United
States, 179 U. S. 201. Confusion, rather than certainty, would
result from allowing the expression of an opinion to stand,
which could not be made the basis of any effectual judgment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

The Court of Private Land Claims having discovered that
by the express prohibition of Congress it was without jurisdiction to decree and confirm the land to the petitioner, the merits
of the case cannot be decided, either by that court, or by this
court on appeal; and the decree below, which undertook to
pass upon the merits, must therefore be reversed, and the case
remanded with directions to dismiss the petition for want of
jurisdiction, without prejudice to the right of the petitioner to
assert his title in any court of competent authority. United
States v. Joselius, 15 How. 36, 38.
Decree reversed accordingly.

EMBLEN v. LINCOLN LAND COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 147. Submitted January 29, 1902.-Decided March 24, 1902.
While a contest over a preemption entry was peuding, Congress passed an
act confirming the entry and directing the patent to issue, which was
done. Held, That the act was within the power of Congress, and that its
operation could not be defeated by a contestant who had never made an
entry on the land, nor perfected the right to do so.

THIS was an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, affirming the decree of the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Nebraska,
dismissing a bill filed therein by George F. Emblen against the
Lincoln Land Company, George F. Weed, and others. The bill
averred that Weed, September 19, 1885, made a cash pre6mption
entry of the southeast quarter of section twenty-two of township two, north of range forty-eight west, at the land office of
the United States in the city of Denver, Colorado; that October 4, 1888, Emblen filed a contest against this entry on the
ground that Weed had not complied with the requirements of

