UNITED STATES v. ST. LOUIS &c. TRANS. CO.

24T

Statement of the Case.

yond the reach of the jurisdiction of the court, or that, when
made parties, the jurisdiction of the court will thereby be defeated, for the court to grant leave to amend would be useless.
Sec. 2 of Article 3 of the Constitution of the United States.
As then, the Great Northern and the Northern Pacific Railway Companies are indispensable parties, without whose presence the court, acting as a court of equity, cannot proceed, and
as our constitutional jurisdiction would not extend to the case
if those companies were made parties defendant, the motion
for leave to file the proposed bill must be and is
Denied.

UNITED STATES v. ST. LOUIS & MISSISSIPPI VALLEY TRAINSPORTATION COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF OLAIMS.
Wo. 89. Argued January 10, 13,1902.-Decided February 24,1902.

After the findings of fact, conclusions of law, and judgment in this case
were filed, two successive motions for a new trial were made on behalf of
defendant; whereupon the former findings were withdrawn, and new
and amended findings and opinion filed. Held, that as these amendments were made at defendant's request, the existing conclusions of law
and judgment were not thereby disturbed.
The evidence adduced shows that the facts found were sufficient to warrant the court below in holding that the collision in the Mississippi River

at New Orleans, whereby the Transportation Company lost a vessel, was
the result of the negligence of the officers in command of the United
States vessels.
There was also culpable negligence in the United States officers in anchoring in an unusual and improper position.
Upon the findings made the Transportation Company was not chargeable
with contributory negligence.

ON October 11, 1894, the St. Louis and Mississippi Valley

Transportation Company filed in the Court of Claims a suit by
way of petition against the United States, in pursuance of the
provisions of the act of August 3, 1894, alleging that said company was a corporation of the State of Missouri, and the owner

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

of the towboat Future City, her barges in tow and freight
earnings; that owing to a collision on May 5, 1888, in the Mississippi River, between said steam towboat and barges and war
vessels of the United States, several of the barges, with their
cargoes and contents, were sunk and wholly lost, and the freight
earnings of such barges for the voyage in progress were lost,
or not earned and paid to the claimant; and that said collision
and the loss and injury resulting therefrom were solely and
directly the result of negligence on the part of those in charge
of the said vessels of war; and claimed damages in the sum of
$24,308.
The United States appeared in said Court of Claims by its
Attorney General, and filed an answer traversing and denying
the allegations of the claimant's petition. The case was so
proceeded in that on March 21, 1898, the court found for the
claimant, and adjudged and decreed that the St. Louis and
Mississippi Valley Transportation Company should have and
recover of and from the United States the sum of $19,808.85.
On March 21, 1898, the court filed findings of fact and conclusion of law. Subsequently, to wit, on May 14, 1900, the
court filed an order withdrawing its former findings of fact in
this case, and filed amended findings in lieu thereof.
On May 21, 1900, an appeal was prayed for and allowed to
this court.
Xr. George Hines Gormanfor appellant.
torney General Pradtwas on his brief.
AXr. James H. Hayden for appellee.

.Mr. Assistant At-

Joseplh H. Afo ammon

was on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS, after making the above statement, de-

livered the opinion of the court.
After the findings of fact, conclusions of law and judgment

were filed by the Court of Claims on March 21, 1898, two successive motions for a new trial were made on behalf of the defendant. The result of these motions was that on May 14,

UNITED STATES v. ST. LOUIS &c. TRANS. CO.

249

Opinion of the Court

1900, the court filed an order withdrawing its former findings
of fact, and filed new and amended findings and opinion; and
it is now contended that by such action in amending its findings of fact and modifying its opinion the court must be deemed
to have set aside its judgment. But as the amendments of the
findings were made at the request of the defendant in connection with the motions for a new trial, we think that the existing conclusions of law and judgment were not thereby disturbed.
Obviously the changes or modifications in the findings, at the
instance of the defendant, were intended by the court to enable
the case of the defendant to be most advantageously presented
for review by the court below on the motions for a new trial,
and by this court on appeal. The motions for a new trial having been overruled, the judgment rendered on March 21, 1898,
remained as the judgment of the Court of Claims, and that is
the judgment from which the defendant appealed, and which
is now before us for review. B3j taking such appeal, the defendant must be deemed to have admitted the existence and
finality of the judgment. Nor is it perceived that the defendant has any reason to complain that the findings, on which the
conclusions of law and the judgment were based, were amended
at its instance. So far as the amendments were at all material,
they were, in some instances, favorable to the case of the defendant, and, at all events, must be regarded as a proper exercise
of authority by the trial court in making its findings conform
to the truth, while its record had not passed out of its control
by the allowance of an appeal.
The material facts found by the Court of Claims were as follows: The Future City and the barges comprising her tow were
all staunch, sound and seaworthy, and were fully and adequately
manned, officered and equipped, and the Future City was ample,
powerful and able to handle her tow under any and all circumstances arising in the navigation of the Mississippi River.
On Mya 7, 1888, the Future City with her tow was descending
the river and approaching the port of New Orleans, with the
intention of making a landing, and while so descending the
river the Future City followed the proper and customary course
of navigation for descending towboats with tows. A towboat

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

with a tow bound for the port of New Orleans, and pursuing
the proper and customary course for such vessels, cannot make
out and see vessels and other objects lying in that portion of
the river below a point of land at Celeste street and between
the western shore and the middle of the stream, because that
point and the buildings standing upon it, and the shipping
moored along its banks, intervene and completely shut off the
view in that direction.
Upon rounding the point of land at Celeste street the Future
City for the first time sighted five United States vessels, to wit,
the Atlanta, Galena, Ossipee, Yantic and Richmond, lying at
anchor below the said point of land and between the western
bank of the river and the middle of the stream. The Future
City could not have made out and discovered the United States
vessels before, because the said point of land intervened and,
with the buildings upon it and the shipping moored along its
banks, completely shut off the view in the direction of the portion of the river where those vessels lay at anchor. As soon as
she sighted and discovered the United States vessels lying at
anchor in her usual and proper course, the Future City backed
under a full head, working full stroke, with all the power she
had, thus adopting the only course feasible and proper in the
circumstances, or in anywise calculated to prevent her from
colliding with the United States vessels. On account of the
insufficiency of time and space after she discovered the United
States vessels, and notwithstanding that she made every possible effort to keep clear of the United States vessels, and, in
order that her tow might extend out into the river as short a
distance as its length would permit, backed her stern as close to
the New Orleans shore as it was in anywise possible without
coming into collision with the shipping moored therealong, and
notwithstanding that she was skillfully and properly handled
and managed by her officers and crew, the Future City was unable, on account of the short distance intervening, either to
check her headway or to straighten up, and still being in a
flanking position, she and her tow were carried by her headway
and the current of the river, and barge 73, the leading -barge of
her tow on the port side, came into collision with the Atlanta,

UNITED STATES v. ST. LOUIS &c. TRANS. CO.

251

Opinion of the Court.

striking against the ram of that vessel broadside on with great
force. As a result of this collision barge 73 was cut down, and
sank, with all her cargo.
Thereafter, notwithstanding that the Future City continued
to pursue the only course feasible and proper in the circumstances and in anywise calculated to avoid further collisions
with other of the United States vessels, and continued to back
with all her power, and notwithstanding that she was skillfully
managed and handled by her officers and crew, yet her stern
having been swung slightly down stream by the collision of
barge 73 with the Atlanta, she was unable to check her headway or straighten up, and was carried by her headway and the
currents of the river, and barge 68, the leading barge on the
starboard side, collided with the Galena, and was sunk with all
her cargo. Notwithstanding that the Future City was skillfully
and properly handled, and that she and her officers and crew
did their utmost to control her remaining barges and to prevent
further collisions between them and the United States vessels,
barge 50 broke loose and was carried by the current, and came
into collision with the Richmond, and thereby sustained great
damage and the loss of part of its cargo.
The United States vessels, as they lay at anchor on May 7,
1888, were ranged in an irregular line along the western bank
of the river, which is the city side, their distances from said
bank varying from 500 to 700 feet. The Atlanta was anchored
highest up stream, and was about 150 feet below the Richard
street ferry, and the entire fleet extended down the river for
the distance of about one mile-the Richmond lying off and
about opposite the barge landing. At Celeste street the shore
extends into the river to a sharp point, and the river bends from
that point to the north. Just below, the width of the stream
is about 1800 feet. The location of the Atlanta, 600 feet, or a
little less, from the New Orleans shore, put that vessel in the
track of tows entering the harbor from above. It was in the
pathway of a tow of even less length than the plaintiff's, at
that particular place engaged in flanking down to the landing.
The upper vessel was at the entrance to the harbor, and the
fleet was located in the way of all vessels descending and seek-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

ing to land in the neighborhood of the barge landing. When
the United States vessels were first sighted or discovered by the
Future City the Atlanta was distant from her about 150 yards.
The positions occupied by the United States vessels were directly in the track of towboats with tows descending the Mississippi River bound for the port of New Orleans, and pursuing
their proper and customary course of navigation, and were thus
directly in the track the course of which the Future City and
her tow were pursuing when she first sighted and discovered
them. The positions thus occupied by the United States vessels were improper and unusual, by reason of their being higher
up stream, too short a distance below the point of land at
Celeste street, not at the bank, but nearer to the New Orleans
or western shore in the river, than the proper, usual and customary anchorage grounds for such or other vessels, or than
vessels had ever before been known to occupy while at anchor.
By reason of their being anchored so high up the river such
short distances below the point of land at Celeste street and so
close to the New Orleans shore, and by reason of their swinging at anchor, they rendered the navigation of the river by
towboats with tows, pursuing their usual and customary course,
hazardous and extremely dangerous. On May 7, 1888, and
prior thereto, there was an abundance of good and suitable anchorage ground lower down the river and nearer its eastern or
Algiers shore, where it was usual, customary and proper for
vessels to lie at anchor while at the port of New Orleans, and
where the United States vessels could have lain at anchor in
perfect safety and without rendering the navigation of the river
at the port of New Orleans either hazardous or dangerous for
any vessels pursuing their usual, proper and customary courses.
Good holding ground for vessels like the men-of-war to safely
anchor at all times existed within twenty feet of the Algiers
shore. The United States vessels came to anchor in their said
positions on or about May 5, 1888, while the Future City, with
her tow, was descending the Mississippi River on her voyage
from St. Louis, and none of her officers or crew had notice or
knowledge of their presence at New Orleans, or of their whereabouts, or of the manner in which they were anchored, until

UNITED STATES v. ST. LOUIS &c. TRANS. CO.

253

Opinion of the Court.

they were sighted and discovered after the Future City had
rounded the point of land at Celeste street. There is a clear
and well-defined custom at New Orleans respecting the course
and practice of tows to land. Descending tows come close to
the shore on the city side of the river. If they did not pursue
this course descending tows would come down in the current
so far out that the motive power could not back the tow to land.
One of the reasons for coming in close to the shore is to catch
the slack near vessels moored to the shore.
Under the laws of the State of Louisiana there existed, at
the time of this occurrence, a board of five harbor masters, who
were charged with the duty of "regulating and stationing all
vessels in the stream of the river Mississippi, within the limits
of the port of New Orleans, and at the levees thereof." Among
the rules and regulations adopted by the board, and at that
time in force, was one prescribing that "the harbor masters
have authority by law to regulate, moor and station all seagoing
or coasting vessels at the levee, and to remove them from time
to time to make room for others, and of the degree of accommodation which one vessel shall afford another the harbor
master is constituted sole judge;" and another which provides
that "all vessels arriving at this port shall notify the harbor
master of the district or leave word at the central office, where
the place of landing will be designated; otherwise they will
be removed at the expense of the vessel ;" and another which
declares that "masters of vessels failing to comply with the
rules will be held responsible for all damages in consequence,
besides laying themselves liable under the law."
Upon the arrival of these United States vessels in may it
does not appear that the harbor master was notified of the
fact, nor was word left at the central office that the vessels bad
arrived. The harbor master exercised no personal supervision
over the matter of the anchorage of the fleet, and was without
knowledge of the places taken in the river by the said war
vessels.
The Court of Claims further found, in its twenty-second finding, that "the said collisions were the result of negligence on
the part of the officers in command of the United States yes-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

sels in bringing them to anchor in improper and unusual positions, and in causing them to be anchored on swinging chains,
as aforesaid."
A lengthy discussion is made in the briefs of the respective
counsel as to the nature of this finding. Is it a finding of the
ultimate fact in the case, or is it merely a conclusion of law
based on the facts previously found ?
It is said, on the one hand, that, by the express terms of the
act of Congress authorizing this suit to be brought, no judgment shall be rendered against the Government unless it shall
affirmatively appear, from the evidence adduced, that such collision was the result of negligence on the part of the officers
in command of said vessels of war, and that the Court of Claims,
having affirmatively found that the collisions were the result
of negligence on the part of the officers in command of the
United States vessels, such finding is a conclusion of fact, which
conclusively disposes of the case, and which, so far as the right
to recover is concerned, leaves no question of law to be passed
upon by this court. On the other hand, it is claimed that
negligence is not a fact which is the subject of direct proof,
but an inference from facts put in evidence, and that, hence,
this court can determine, from the facts otherwise found,
whether the collision was the result of negligence on the part
of the officers in command of the vessels.
We do think it necessary to weigh this question in a very
delicate balance, as we are of opinion that, even if the Government's contention in that particular is sound, yet the evidence
adduced, as it appears in the facts found, was sufficient to warrant the court below in holding that it affirmatively appeared
that the collision was the result of the negligence of the officers
in command of the vessels.
Undoubtedly, by entering the port of New Orleans, intending
to anchor and remain there, in total disregard of the usages and
regulations of the port, the officers in command of the vessels
were negligent. Ports like those of New Orleans and New
York, which are frequented not merely by seagoing vessels,
but by numerous vessels and barges engaged in commerce, or

UNITED STATES v. ST. LOUIS &c. TRANS. CO.

255

Opinion of the Court.

rivers which enter and form part of the harbors, require regulations suited to the local exigencies.
"An ordinance of the city of Charleston, prescribing where
a vessel may lie in the harbor, how long she may remain there,
what light she must show at night, and making other similar
regulations, is not in conflict with any law of Congress regulating commerce, or with the general admiralty jurisdiction conferred on the courts of the United States. It is therefore valid,
and a vessel at anchor is bound to show such a light as is required by the local regulations." Owners of James Gray v.
Ship John .Fraser,21 How. 184:; The Vanderbilt, 6 Wall. 225.
There was also culpable negligence in anchoring in an unusual and improper position.
"It is negligence for a vessel to moor so near the entrance to
a harbor that shipping, entering in stress of weather, is liable to
become embarrassed by its presence; and where the usual difficulties of navigation make the entrance to a harbor a dangerous
undertaking, it is especially reprehensible for a vessel to moor
in a situation tending to increase these difficulties."
"Where a vessel is at anchor in a proper place, and is observant of the precaution required by law, it is not liable for
damages sustained by a vessel in motion colliding with it,
but where it anchors in an unlawful position, or fails to observe the statutory requirements and such other precautions as
good seamanship would suggest, it must suffer the consequences
attending a violation of the law." Spencer on Marine Collisions, sees. 99, 106.
"A vessel ought not to be moored, and lie in the channel or
entrance to a port, except in cases of necessity; or, if anchored there from necessity, she ought not remain there longer
than the necessity continues. If she does and a collision takes
place with a vessel entering the harbor, she will be considered
in default." The Scioto, 2 Ware, 360.
The treatment of the question of negligence on the part of
those in command of the Government's vessels was so full and
satisfactory by the court below that we think it sufficient to
refer to its opinion, reported in 33 C. C1. 251.
The dissent on the part of Peele, J., did not arise out of any

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

view that the United States officers had not been negligent,
but was based on the opinion of the dissenting justice that negligence on the part of the plaintiff had contributed to the accident.
Adverting to that aspect of the case, we think that, upon the
findings made, which of course control us, the plaintiff was not
chargeable with contributory negligence. The findings show
that the Future City entered the harbor and manceuvered for
landing, in the manner customary for vessels of her class; that
she had no reason to expect to find vessels at anchor, where
none had ever been known to anchor before, on the city side of
the river and close under the point at Celeste street, and that
her management, when she encountered the exigency, was skillful and proper.
The Court of Claims further found that the damages caused
to the plaintiff, as a result of the collisions, amounted to the
sum of $19,808.85.
It is contended on behalf of the Government, that, even if the
collision was the result of negligence on the part of the officers in
command of said vessels of war,and even if, on the facts found,
the plaintiff was properly exonerated from the charge of contributory negligence, yet that the judgment of the court below
was erroneous in including the loss and damages caused to
barge 68.
This contention is based on an alleged difference between the
findings of fact filed on March 21, 1898, and those filed on
May 14, 1900, whereby, it is claimed, that the facts that were
found in the first finding, and upon which the liability of the
Government for barge 68 was based, were eliminated, and hence
there was no foundation left for the judgment in that respect.
This record does not disclose to us the first finding, and, of
course, we can only consider the findings as amended and filed
on May 14, 1900. But, even conceding that the discrepancies
pointed out exist, yet we think that the findings actually and
finally made furnish sufficient support for the judgment in the
particular complained of. Finding sixteen is explicit, that,
"notwithstanding the Future City, after the collision with the
Atlanta, continued to pursue the only course feasible and proper

UNITED STATES v. ST. LOUIS &c. TRANS. CO. 257
Opinion of the Court.

in the circumstances, and in anywise calculated to avoid further
collisions with other of the United States vessels, and continued
to back with all her power, and notwithstanding that she was
skillfully and properly handled and managed by her officers and
crew, yet her stern having been swung slightly down stream by
the collision of barge 73 with the Atlanta, she was unable to
check her headway or straighten up, and was carried by her
headway and the currents of the river, and went down toward
the Galena, which was lying about 400 feet astern of the Atlanta and closer to the New Orleans shore than the latter. In
the collision between barge 68 and the Galena the lines and
fastenings of the said tow and the rigging of the Future City
were parted or greatly damaged, and her tow was broken up
and the lead barge (68), the barge on the starboard side, struck
the Galena and was sunk, with all cargo aboard, and the barge
and her freight earnings became a total loss."
Inasmuch as the court found that everything that was possible to avert further collisions after the collision with the Atlanta
was done by the Future City, it, in effect and indeed in terms,
found that the loss of the three barges pccasioned by collision
with the Atlanta, the Galena and the Richmond, were occasioned by negligence of the officers in command of the said
United States vessels, in bringing them to anchor in improper
and unusual positions and in causing them to be anchored on
swinging chains.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is
r.fflrmed.
VOL. oLxxxiv-1T

