OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

EIDMAN v. MARTINEZ.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 287.

Argued November 21, 1901.-Decided March 17, 1902.

Congress is bound to express its intention to tax in clear and unambiguous
language, and a liberal construction should be given to words of exception confining the operation of the duty.
The war tax law of 1898 imposing a tax upon legacies or distributive shares
arising from personal property passing "Ifrom any person possessed of
such property, either by will or by the intestate laws of any State or Territory," does not apply to the intangible personal property in this country,
of an alien domiciled abroad, whose property passed to his son, also an
alien domiciled abroad, partly by will and partly by the intestate laws of
such foreign country.
The act does not make the duty payable, when the person possessed of
such property dies testate, if it would not be payable, if such person bad
(lied intestate; and the words "passing by will" are limited to wills executed in a State or Territory under whose laws the property would pass,
if the owner had died intestate.

THIS case carne up upon certain questions of law arising in an
action brought in the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of New York by Martinez, as ancillary administrator with the
will annexed of the estate of Salvador Elizalde, against the Collector of Internal Revenue, for the refund of an inheritance tax
paid to the defendant upon certain personal property in the city
of New York.
The facts out of which the questions arose are as follows:
Salvador Elizalde, a non-resident alien, a subject of the King
of Spain, who had never resided within the United States, died
in Paris, France, on April 27, 1899, leaving a will in the Spanish
language, executed in Paris, in the year 1891, pursuant to the
laws of Spain. This will was filed and protocolized in the office of the Spanish consul in Paris, and thereby under the laws
of Spain and the consular convention or treaty between Spain
and France, Arturo Elizalde, the sole legatee under said will,
became entitled to the possession and administration of all the

BEIDMAN v. MARTINEZ.
Statement of the Case.

personal property of therdecedent.

Said Arturo Elizalde is the

only son and sole next of kin of the decedent, and is a non-resident alien and a Spanish subject. He has resided all his life in
Spain and France, and has never resided in the United States.
Said will purports to give all of the personal property of the
decedent to his said son, but, by the laws of Spain, only one
third of the property passed by the will, and the remaining two
thirds passed to said son by and under the Spanish intestate
law.
The decedent left certain Federal, municipal and corporate
bonds, of the par value of $225,400, in the custody of his agents
in the city of New York, and they were within the third collection district of New York at the date of his death.
After the filing of said will in Paris, Arturo Elizalde entered
upon the administration of the decedent's personal estate, and
appointed the defendant in error, Miguel R. Martinez, his attorney for the purpose of receiving ancillary letters of administration with the will annexed in the State of New York, and
such letters were issued to him by the surrogate of New York
County. After receiving such letters, said Martinez took possession of said bonds.
The United States Commissioner of Internal Revenue, under
the alleged authority of the twenty-ninth and thirtieth sections
of the act of Congress of June 13, 1898, entitled "An act to
provide ways and means to meet war expenditures and for
other purposes," 30 Stat. 448, assessed an internal revenue tax
of $4293.76 upon a legacy and distributive share arising from
personal property in the hands of the administrator, defendant
in error, who paid said tax to the United States collector of
internal revenue for the third district of New York, plaintiff
in error, under protest and upon compulsion of the collector's
threat of distraint and sale, and made the statutory application
for its refund to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, who
rejected the application. The administrator then brought this
iction in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southarn District of New York against the collector to recover the
amount of the tax.
The collector demurred; the demurrer was overruled, and a

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

final judgment entered against the collector for the amount
claimed, with interest and costs. The collector then brought
the action into the Circuit Court of Appeals, which certified to
this court the following questions of law arising out of the
foregoing facts:
"1. Is any tax or duty imposed by the twenty-ninth and
thirtieth sections of the act of Congress of June 13, 1898, entitled 'An act to provide ways and means to meet war expenditures and for other purposes,' upon the passing of any legacy
arising out of the personal property of a non-resident alien who
has never resided or had a domicil within the United States,
and who dies without the United States in the year 1899, leaving a will made and executed at his foreign domicil, pursuant
to the laws thereof, by which he gives all his property to a
non-resident alien legatee, and who leaves certain personal property within the State of New York exceeding $10,000 in value? "
"2. Is any tax or duty imposed by the twenty-ninth and
thirtieth sections of the act of Congress of June 13, 1898, entitled 'An act to provide ways and means to meet war expenditures and for other purposes,' upon the passing of any
distributive share arising out of the personal property of a nonresident alien who has never resided or had a domicil within
the United States, and who dies without the United States, in
the year 1899, intestate, and by the law of his foreign domicil
all of his personal property passes to his son, also a non-resident alien, and who leaves certain personal property within
the State of New York, exceeding $10,000 in value?"
-Mr. Solicitor General for the United States.
JM. Ifkeeler H. Peckham and IlL". John G. Carlisle for defendants in error. _lLr. William Edmond Curtisand ..Afr. Hreny
.f.Ward were on their brief.
MR. JUSTICE BRowN, after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

This case raises the question whether the inheritance tax law

EIDMiIAN v. MARTINEZ.
Opinion of the Court.

of the United States applied, in 1899, to the intangible personal
property of a non-resident alien, who never had a domicil in
in the United States and died abroad-such personal property
being within the United States and haying passed to his son,
also an alien domiciled abroad, as sole legatee and next of kin
of the deceased, partly under a will executed abroad and partly
under the intestate laws of Spain.
By the twenty-ninth section of the war tax law of June 30,
1898, c. 448, 30 Stat. 448, 464, "Any person or persons having
in charge or trust, as administrators, executors or trustees, any
legacies or distributive shares arising from personal property
. . . passing . . . from any person possessed of such
property, either by will or by the intestate laws of any State or
Territory, . . . shall be, and hereby are, made subject to a

duty or tax," etc.
The ancient maxim of the law, mobilia sequuntur personarn,

was the outgrowth of conditions which have largely ceased to
exist, and of an age when personal property consisted principally of articles appertaining, as the name indicates, to the person of the owner, such as gold and silver, jewels, apparel, and
less immediately to horses, cattle and other animals, and to the
products of the farm and the shop. As this property was, in
primitive times, usually kept under the personal supervision of
the owner, and was often carried about by him on his journeys,
(as it often still is in Oriental countries,) the principle became
incorporated in the law that its locality was determined by the
domicil of the owner, and that his rights with respect to such
property were fixed by the law of that domicil.
While the enormous increase in the amount and variety of
personal property during the past century has necessitated certain limitations of the maxim, particularly in matters of taxation, it is by no means obsolete. It is still the law that personal
property is sold, transmitted, bequeathed by will, and is descendible by inheritance according to the law of the domicil
and not by that of its situs. Cross v. United States Trust Co.,
131 N. Y. 330; -nnis v. Smith, 14 How. 400, 424; Dammert

v. Osborn, 141 N. Y. 564. In matters of taxation, however,
and of subjecting the personal property of non-residents to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

claims of local creditors of the owner, serious encroachments
have been made upon the ancient maxim, and a rule has grown
up in modern times that legislatures may deal with the personal
as well as with the real property of non-residents within their
jurisdiction; and that such property, while enjoying the protection and benefits of the local law, may be taxed for the expenses of .the local government. These doctrines have found
expression in a large number of cases in this court. Green v.
'Fan Buskirk, 5 Wall. 307; S. C., 7 Wall. 139; -Hervey v.
Rhode Island Locomotive Works, 93 U. S. 664; Walworth v.
Harris,129 U. S. 355; Security Trust Company v. Dodd, 173
U. S. 624, and cases there cited.
Recent cases in this court have affirmed very broadly the
right of the legislature to tax the local property of non-residents,
and particularly of corporations who are permitted by comity
to do business within the State. The Delaware Railroad Tax,
18 Wall. 206; Erie Railway Co. v. Pennsylvania, 21 Wall.
492; Westerw Union Tel. Co. v. Jfassachusetts,125 U. S. 530;
]larye v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, 127 U. S. 117; Pullman's Palace Car Co. v. Pennsylvania,141 U. S. 18; Adams
Ex'press Co. v. Ohio, 166 U. S. 185. The same principle has
been applied not only to tangible property but to credits and
effects. Tappan v. _Merchants' Nrational Bank, 19 Wall. 490;
Savings Society v. Multnomah County, 169 U. S. 421; Ivew
Orleans v. Stempel, 175 U. S. 309; Bristol v. Washington
County, 177 U. S. 133.
The question in each case is not of the power of the legislature
to tax the personal property of non-residents, both tangible and
intangible, since that is well established both in England and
America, fager v. rfima, 8 How. 490, but of its intent to do
so by the particular act in question. The inheritance tax law
of the United States above cited applies to property "passing
by will or by the intestate laws of any State or Territory." As
the property in this case did not pass under any will executed
in any State or Territory of the United States, or by the intestate
laws of any such State or Territory, the case is not within the
literalism of the act, unless we are to use the word "State" in a
sense broad enough to include a foreign State or Territory. As

EIDMAN v. MARTINEZ.
Opinion of the Court.'

matter of fact, the decedent was a Spanish subject, who had
never resided in the United States, had executed a will at Paris
in the Spanish language, pursuant to the laws of Spain, under
which will one third of his property passed to his son and two
thirds to the same person under the intestate laws of Spain.
The property left by the will consisted of Federal, municipal
and corporation bonds, in custody of the agents of the deceased
in New York. It is the locality of the property within the
jurisdiction of the United States which subjects it, if at all, to
the legacy or succession tax.
It is an old and familiar rule of the English courts, applicable
to all forms of taxation, and particularly special taxes, that the
sovereign is bound to express its intention to tax in clear and
unambiguous language, and that a liberal construction be given
to words of exception confining the operation of duty, Warrington v. -Furbor,8 East, 242, 247; Williams v. Sangar, 10 East,
66, 69; Denn v. Diamond, 4 B. & C. 243, 245; Tomkins v.
Ashby, 6 B. & 0.541; Doe v. Snaith, 8 Bing. 146,152; TFroughton v. Turtle, 11 Mv.&W. 561, 567; G'urrv. Scudds, 11 Exchq.
190, though the rule regarding exemptions from general laws
imposing taxes may be different. Cooley on Taxation, 146; In
.Matterof Enston, 113 N. Y. 174, 177.
We have ourselves had repeated occasion to hold that the
customs revenue laws should be liberally interpreted in favor of
the importer, and that the intent of Congress to impose or increase a tax upon imports should be expressed in clear and unambiguous language. Hartranftv. Wiegmann, 121 U. S.609;
American Net & Twine Co. v. Worthington, 141 U. S. 468;
United States v. Wigglesworth,2 Story, 369; Powers v. Barney,
5 Blatchford, 202.
It is pertinent in this connection to examine similar statutes
passed in other countries and in the several States of this Union,
and to inquire what construction is given to them. By the
English tax legacy act of 1796 a tax was imposed on every
legacy "given by any will or testamentary instrument to any
person who shall die after the passing of this act." In Attorney General v. Cockerell, 1 Price, 165, (1814) this was held by
the Court of Exchequer to apply to a legacy bequeathed by a

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

British subject residing in the East Indies to persons living in
England, if the executor proved the will in England, and paid
the legacy there, though the testator held his property in India,
and resided and made his will and died there. The case was
put upon the ground that the will was proved in England, that
the executors had received the property there, and that the
legatees resided there and were to be paid there. But the case
is further distinguishable from the one under consideration in
the fact that the testator was a British subject and domiciled
in a British possession, although the stress of the case was laid
upon the residence of the legatees in England. TAe Attorney
General v. Beatson, 7 Price, 560, (1819) differs from the last
one only in the fact that the property bequeathed was in India,
and was remitted to England and paid to legatees residing in
Scotland. But it was held in the -Estateof Ewin, 1 Cr. & Jer.
151, (1830) that foreign stocks, the property of a testator domiciled in England, were liable to the legacy duty, although the
stocks were transferable and the dividends were payable in the
foreign countries. In this case the law of the domicil was
held to be controlling and the domicil to be the situs of the
personal property. The two cases from Price were not cited.
In Jackson v. Forbes, 2 Cr. & Jer. 382, a testator born
in Scotland, who resided and died in India, leaving property
there but none in England, left his property to his four natural
children. The property was collected by his executors, sent to
England and invested in their own names. The court held the
property exempt from legacy duties, apparently upon the ground
that the property was administered by the executors without
necessarily invoking the aid of the Court of Chancery, although
no reasons were given in the opinion. Up to this time it had
been thought that, if the legacy were paid from assets administered in England, the duty was payable. The two cases from
Price were cited but not discussed. This case was subsequently
affirmed by the House of Lords under the name of [ie Attorney Generalv. Jackson, 8 Bligh, (N. S.) 15. The case of Logan
v. Fairlie,1 Mylne & Craig, 59, was a similar case, and the
legacy was held to be exempt upon its authority.
But in Arnold v. Arnold, 2 Mylne & Craig, 256, a similar

EIDMAN v. MARTINEZ.
Opinion of the Court.

case of a testator residing and dying in India, leaving property
there which was remitted to England and administered there,
the legacy tax was held not to be payable, and the question
was regarded as finally settled by Attorney General v. Jackson.
The two cases from Price were overruled.
Finally, in Thompson v. Advocate General, 12 01. & Fin. 1, a
British born subject died, domiciled in a British colony. At
the time of his death he was possessed of personal property in
Scotland. Probate of his will was taken out in .Scotland for
the purpose of administering that property, and legacies were
paid to legatees residing there. It was held by the House of
Lords that no legacy duty was payable. The two cases from
Price were flatly overruled, the other cases cited and discussed
at length, and the doctrine of domicil applied. This case must
be regarded as settling the law of England upon the subject.
It will be observed in these cases that the testator was a
British subject, but in the Case of Bruce, 2 Cr. & Jer. 436, the
testator was an American who lived and died abroad, having
appointed an Ehglish executor and bequeathed property in
England to legatees residing there. The case is exactly in
point, and the court had no difficulty in reaching the conclusion
that the property was not liable to legacy duty.
There are some later cases in England, but none that seem
to qualify the rule laid down in Thompson v. Advocate General. In some of them a distinction is drawn between the
legacy tax act and the succession duty act, which came into
operation May 19, 1853, and in In re Lovelace, 4 De Gex &
Jones, 340, it was said that the latter act applied to a succession
inter vivos under a British settlement to British property vested
in British trustees, and falling under the jurisdiction of a British court, although the persons entitled were aliens domiciled
abroad. This case arose under an English marriage settlement
made in England on the marriage of two English subjects, and
affected English personalty only. In Wallop's Trust, 1 De Gex,
Jones & Smith, 656, a distinction was drawn between the legacy
act of George III and the succession duty act, and a broader
construction given to the latter. In Wallace v. Attorney General, L. R. 1 Ch. App. 1, it was held that a succession duty was

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

not payable on legacies given by the will of a person domiciled
in a foreign country. The law was treated as settled by Thompson v. Advocate General, 12 Cl. & F. 1, and the question discussed on principle in a vigorous opinion. The converse of
this case is that of Attorney General v. 1Vapier, 6 Exoh. 217, in
which a British born subject died in India, though he had never
acquired a domicil there, and it was held that the whole of his
property, though chiefly situate abroad, was liable to a legacy
duty. This case is similar to that of Ewin, 1 Cr. & Jer. 151,
above cited, though decided twenty years later. See also Attorney General v. Campbell, L. IR. 5 H. L. Eng. & Irish Apps.
524; .Lyall v. 1yall, L. R. 15 Eq. 1.

From this analysis of the English cases it clearly appears
that, under a general act imposing a duty upon legacies, the
law of the domicil of the testator controls, and if he be domiciled abroad, whether an alien or a British subject, his legacies
are exempt, whether the property be in England at the time of
his death, or be subsequently remitted there by his executors
for local administration and distribution.
We proceed now to an examination of the state decisions
upon the same subject, which, with one or two exceptions, tend
in the same direction. The Massachusetts collateral inheritance
law of 1891 imposes a tax upon "all property within thejurisdiction of the Commonwealth, . . . whether belonging to
inhabitantsof the Commonwealth or not, and whether tangible

or intangible, which shall pass by will or by the intestate laws
of the Commonwealth regulating intestate succession," etc. In
Callahan v. lfoodbridge, 171 Mass. 595, it was held that under this act the succession to property of non-residents was expressly taxed as if the property belonged to inhabitants of the
Commonwealth, and that the language, "which shall pass by
will or by the laws of the Commonwealth regulating intestate
succession," taken in connection with the clauses immediately
preceding it, applies to foreign wills, and to property that
passes under the statute of this Commonwealth which regulates
the succession to the property of a non-resident owner after his
death." The testator in that case lived in the State of New
York, but the property was within the jurisdiction of Massa-

EIDMAN v. MARTINEZ.
Opinion of the Court.

chusetts. The statute was held to apply to property tangible
or intangible. We make no criticism of this case, which was
placed expressly upon the language of the statute.
The inheritance tax law of New York of 1885 imposed a tax
upon "all property which shall pass by will or by the intestate
laws of the State, from any person who may die seized or possessed of the same while being a resident of the State, or which
property shall be within this State, or any part of such property . . . transferred by deed, grant, sale or gift made
or intended to take effect . . . after the death of the

grantor," etc. In the Aatter of Enston, 113 N. Y. 174, this
was held not to apply to property within the State which passed
by will or intestacy from a non-resident decedent to collateral
relatives or strangers, legatees domiciled in the State, and the
latter clause, "or which property shall be within the State,"
was held to be limited to such as was transferred by deed, grant,
sale or gift inter vivos. The act was amended in 1887 so as to
include "all property which shall pass by will or by the intestate laws of this State, from any person who may die seized or
possessed of the same while a resident of this State, or if such
decedent were not a resident of this State at the time of his death,
which property or any part thereof shall be within this State."
And in Romaine's case, 127 N. Y. 80, it was held to apply to
personal property in New York, owned by a non-resident intestate at the time of his death, which was habitually kept or
invested by him there. There can be but little doubt of the
propriety of this ruling. In WhFiting's case, 150 N. Y. 27, the
same rule was extended to bonds of foreign as well as domestic
corporations, and certificates of stock of domestic corporations,
(but not of foreign,) owned by a non-resident decedent, but
deposited by him in a safe deposit vault in New York. See
also Bponson's case, 150 N. Y. 1, and Houdayer's case, 150
N. Y. 37. These cases seem rather to accentuate the general
principle that general statutes imposing taxes upon legacies do
not apply to the personal property of non-resident testators,
and that a special inclusion of such is necessary to subject it to
taxation.
The inheritance tax law of Maryland subjects to taxation all

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

property "passing from any person who may die seized or possessed thereof, being in this State; " and it was held in State v.

.Dalrymple,70 Md. 294, that the words "being in this State"
referred, not to the decedent himself, but to his property. The
testator was a resident of California, and his property was also
bequeathed to residents of the same State. The property which
was in Maryland consisted of an undivided quarter of the personal estate of the brother of the testator who died in Maryland.
The act was held to apply, though the testator's domicil was
in California. The English cases were cited and held to be distinguishable by reason of the peculiar language of the Maryland
act. The language was evidently ambiguous, but the court having held that the words "being in this State" applied to the
property and not to the person, of course its liability followed.
A like construction was given to the same words in Commonwealth v. Smith, 5 Penn. St. 142; In 'e Short's Estate, 16 Penn.
St. 63. The case of Billings v. The People, 189 Illinois, 472, is
of no value, as the testator as well as his legatees were domiciled
in Illinois, and the question was as to the liability of the widow's
dower.
The case of Alvany v. Powell, 2 Jones Eq. 51, is directly in
point, and undoubtedly sustains the positions of the government
in this case. The North Carolina inheritance act imposed a tax
upon "all personal property or goods bequeathed to strangers
orcollateral kindred, or which shall be distributed to, or amongst
the next of kin, of any intestate, when such next of kin are collateral relations of such intestate." The act was held to apply
to property in North Carolina descending to a brother from an
intestate domiciled in Canada. The court was satisfied that the
true principle, both in regard to real and personal property, was
the situs of the property. The English case of Thompson v.
Advocate General, 12 Cl. & F. 1, decided by the House of Lords,
was considered at length, and thus criticized: "No one can read
the opinion delivered before the Lords in the case of Thomson
v. The Lard Advocate, which is the case in which the principle
of the domicil is finally settled, without being struck by the
fact that there is throughout a marked paucity of reasoning."
The North Carolina case was decided in 1854, and, so far as we

EIDMAN v. MARTINEZ.
Opinion of the Court.

know, has not been followed in any other State, and it is the
only one to which our attention has been called that seems to
be in point in favor of the construction contended for by the
Government.
There are a number of other cases in the state courts, but
they either involve questions of taxation under general laws
imposing taxes upon real and personal property, not being special inheritance taxes, or the language of the particular statute
is such as to create little doubt as to the intention-of the legislature to tax or not to tax the particular inheritance in question. Small's Estate, 151 Penn. St. 1; 1Weaver's.Estate v. State,
81 N. W. Rep. 603 ; State v. St. Louis Co. Court, 47 Mo. 594;
Catlin v. Hall, 21 Vt. 152; People v. Home Ins. Co., 29 Cal.
533.; Hoyt v. Commissioners, 23 N. Y. 224; People v. Gardner,
51 Barb. 352. In some jurisdictions a distinction has been
made between tangible and intangible property which does not
arise in this case. Oroutt's Appeal, 97 Penn. St. 179.
The tax in question in this case not being upon the property
itself, but upon the succession, l-nited States v. Perkins, 163
U. S. 625 ; Aagoun v. Blinois Trust & Savings Co., 170 U. S.
283; Knowlton v. .foore, 178 U. S. 41, laws imposing general
taxes upon real and personal property are not controlling
when applied to taxes upon the succession, when such succession takes place and is governed by the laws of a foreign country.
The actual situs of the property in such cases cuts but a small
figure, while in the case of general taxes upon such property it
is now considered determinative of the whole question.
The question involved in this case, however, arose under the
act of June 30, 1864, before Mr. Justice Gray of this court,
while holding the Circuit Court for Massachusetts, in United
States v. Hunnewell, 13 Fed. Rep. 617. Section 124 of that
act imposed a duty on legacies or distributive shares arising
from personal property passing from any person possessed of
such property, either by will, or by the intestate laws of any
State or Territory. The action was brought to recover the tax
upon American securities bequeathed by a French citizen domiciled in France to a son, who was also domiciled there. The
will was executed in conformity with the French law and was

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

duly proved there, though a local executor was appointed by
the probate court in Boston to transfer to the legatee the securities in question. It was held that section 124 did not make
the duty payable when the person possessed of such property
died testate if it would not be payable if such person died intestate; and as if the deceased had died intestate her son would
not have taken a distributive share by the intestate laws of any
State or Territory, his rights were the same if he took by will.
In other words, that the words "either by will or by the intestate laws of any State or Territory" must be construed together,
and would apply only to wills executed within any State or
Territory of the United States. The case is precisely in point.
We regard this case as a correct exposition of the law. It is
not necessary to rely exclusively upon the English cases, or
upon those in the state courts, which hold that a general law
imposing an inheritance tax upon property passing by will or
descent does not apply to intangible personal property within
the jurisdiction of the taxing power, but owned by persons
domiciled abroad, under the laws of which domicil the property passes, since the statute in question here applies only to
property passing "either by will or by the intestate laws of any
State or Territory." Now, as the finding in this case is that the
property passed partly under a Spanish will and partly under
the intestate laws of Spain, the only question is whether the
words "passing by will" are limited by the subsequent words
"or the intestate laws of any State or Territory." We are
clearly of opinion that they are, and that the words "passing
by will" are limited to wills executed in "any State or Territory" under whose laws the property would pass, if the owner
had died intestate. The whole scheme of the act evidently
contemplates the application of the tax only to the property of
a person domiciled in a State or Territory of the United States
whose property is transmitted under our laws. This is evident
not only from the language of section 29, above quoted, but
from the provision of section 30, "that every executor, etc.,
shall pay to the collector or deputy collector of the
district of which the deceased person was a resident the amount
of the duty or tax assessed upon such legacy or distributive

EIDMAN v. MARTINEZ.
Opinion of the Court.

share," etc. It would be difficult to find language more expressive of an intent to confine the tax to persons domiciled in this
country. It need only be added that while the words "State
or Territory" are used in treaties, and perhaps also in some acts
of Congress regulating our international relations as including
foreign States, they are used in the Constitution and in ordinary acts of Congress as applying only to States or Territories
of the United States.
If, as in several of the States, the words "passing by will or
by the intestate laws of this State," or similar words, are connected with words declaring that the tax was intended to be
imposed upon the estates of persons domiciled abroad, the latter provision is held to apply, and the words "passing by will
or the intestate laws of this State" are held to include the estates of persons domiciled abroad. Such is the case in Illinois:
Billings v. People of Illinois, 189 Ill. 472; Massachusetts:
Callahan v. Woodbridge, 171 Mass. 595; Greves v. Shaw, 173
Mass. 205; Maine: State v. -Hamlin,86 Me. 495; Ohio: Laws
of 1894, p. 166; Connecticut: Laws of 1889, p. 106; Tennessee:
State v. Alston, 95 Tenn. 674. But it is hardly necessary to say
that the construction given to these statutes would have no application to cases where words expressly providing for the estates of non-residents are omitted.
To say that we recognize by comity the law of a foreign
domicil as controlling the transmission or succession of personal property because it thereby becomes our law, (and the
property therefore taxable,) as is indicated in some cases, notable in Alvany v. Powell, 2 Jones Eq. 51, is misleading and little
more than a play upon words. When we speak of our laws we
mean to be understood as referring to our own statutory laws
or the common law we inherited from the mother country, and
when we apply the laws of a foreign domicil we do so, not because they are our laws, but because upon principles of comity
we recognize those laws as applicable to the particular case.
But to speak of such foreign laws as thereby becoming "the
intestate laws of any State or Territory," wherein they are enforced, is practically to confound the whole distinction between
the law of the situs and the law of the domicil. We do not

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

enforce the law of Spain in this case because it is our law, but
because the practice of all civilized nations is to recognize the
law of the domicil as governing the transmission and inheritance of personal property, and to prevent the confusion that
would follow, if estates, situated possibly in half a dozen countries, were administered and distributed according to the laws
of each country in which any portion of such estate happened
to be located. We decline to hold the tax involved in this case
applicable to this estate because the words of the statute do not
require it, and because the thing taxed, that is, the transmission
of the property to the legatees or next of kin, takes place in a
foreign country. It is true that Congress may, and in certain
cases has seen fit to, adopt the laws of a particular State, and
apply them within a Territory, as was done when Congress applied the laws of Oregon to Alaska, Act of May 7, 1884, c. 53,
ยง 7, 23 Stat. 24, 25, and certain statutes of Nebraska to Oklohoma, Act of Mfay 2, 1890, c. 182, ยง 11, 26 Stat. 81, 87. They
thereby became the laws of those Territories as much as if enacted by a territorial legislature, and were universally applicable. But that result follows expressly from the statute, and
not from the recognition of the foreign law as applicable to a
particular case. Section 2694 of the New York Code recognizes this distinction, in its requirement that "except where special provision is otherwise made by law, the validity and effect
of the testamentary disposition of any other" (than real) "property situated within the State, and the ownership and disposition of such property where it is not disposed of by will, are
regulated by the laws of the State or country of which decedent
was a resident at the time of his death."
Conceding it to be within the power of Congress to impose
an inheritance tax upon property in this country, no matter
where owned or transmitted, it has not done so in this case,
and
The questions propounded by the Court of Appeals must be
answered in the negative.
M . JUSTICE WHITE and MR.

the result.

JUsTICEi@cKENNA

concurred in

