IRON GATE BANK v. BRADY.
Statement of the Case.

IRON GATE BANK v. BRADY.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT FOR THE EASTERN
DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
No. 175. Argued February 28, March 3, 1902.-Decided March 24,1902.

A tort by which the estate of the defendant was not increased, and the estate of the plaintiff damaged only as an indirect consequence of the
alleged wrongful act of the defendant, does not, either at common law
or by the statutes of Virginia, survive the death of the wrongdoer.
The plaintiff elected to go into court on an action sounding in tort, and it
must abide by its election.

ON September 11, 1900, the plaintiff in error as plaintiff commenced this action in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Virginia. The declaration, after stating
that both parties were citizens of Virginia, alleged that the plaintiff was a state bank, chartered under the laws of that State,
and the defendant, a collector of internal revenue of the United States for the second district of Virginia, and that "between
the months of November, 1899, and August, 1900, the plaintiff
made, issued and paid out seven hundred dollars of its circulating notes, payable to the bearer and intended to be used for
circulation in ordinary business as currency. The Commissioner
of the Revenue of the United States assessed upon these notes
a tax of ten per cent on their face value, equal to seventy dollars, which said tax is imposed upon them by the nineteenth
section of the act of Congress of February 8, 1875, and by
section 34:12 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, and
said defendant, Tames D. Brady, acting as said collector of internal revenue of the United States, required of plaintiff and
demanded of it that it pay said tax; but because said action of
said act of February 8, 1875, and said section 3412 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, imposing said tax upon
said notes, are repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States, the plaintiff refused to pay said unlawful tax; therefore on the - day of September, 1900, the defendant forcibly

OCTOBER TERAI, 1901,
Opinion of the Court.

entered upon the premises of the plaintiff by virtue of a distress warrant held by him, authorizing and commanding him
to collect said unlawful tax, and levied on and seized a large
quantity of plaintiff's personal property, and was in the act
of removing and carrying away said property to sell the same
when the plaintiff, protesting against the illegality of defendant's act, paid him said tax to procure a release of its said
property; that defendant well knew said acts of Congress imposing said tax were repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, and he entered upon plaintiff's premises and levied
on and seized its property, well knowing that he was doing
unlawful acts, and he did the same maliciously and with the
purpose and intention of doing a wanton injury to plaintiff
and damaging its credit, so as to do it all the harm possible,
and said unlawful act has damaged its credit and done it an
irreparable injury ; that the act of Congress authorizing the
issue of said distress warrant to collect said unlawful tax is
repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, and because all of said acts of Congress are repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, the plaintiff's case arises under
the Constitution of the United States; that said unlawful acts
of said defendant have damaged the plaintiff six thousand dollars, and therefore it sues."
A demurrer to this declaration was filed, sustained and judgment entered for the defendant. Thereupon this writ of error
was sued out. After the case had reached this court the defendant, James D. Brady, died, and an application was made to
revive in the name of his personal representative.
M.

William, L. Royall for plaintiff in error.

.fr. Solicitor General for the United States.
MR.JUSTICE BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
We have recently had before us a similar action against the
same party, in which also was presented the question of surviv-

IRON GA!]M

3ANK v. BRADY.

Opinion of the Court.

orship, (Patton v. Brady, ante, 608,) and to the opinion filed
in that case we refer for a discussion of the question. There the
amount of property taken by the defendant as collector was
over $3000; here it is only $70. So far as a recovery of the
tax charged to have been illegally levied and collected is sought,
it is practically an action in assumpsit for money had and received. Beyond that nothing is suggested but a tort, and a tort
by which the estate of the defendant was not increased and the
estate of the plaintiff damaged only as. an indirect consequence
of the alleged wrongful act of the defendant. Such a tort does
not, either at common law or by the statutes of Virginia, survive the death of the wrongdoer. (See authorities referred to
in the opinion cited.)
It may be added that it is not easy to see how upon the acts
charged against the defendant there could be, even if the tax
were declared illegal, any further recovery than the amount
of such tax with interest. It is true there is an averment that
the defendant knew he was doing unlawful acts, that he did
them maliciously and with the purpose and intention of doing
a wanton injury to the plaintiff and damaging its credit, but no
wrongful act is charged against him except it be in the mere
collection of this alleged illegal tax. If the tax is legal then
nothing is disclosed which would give any right of recovery to
the plaintiff; nothing was done by the collector in making the
collection other than was strictly his duty. So, on the other
hand, if the tax be adjudged illegal, no act of wrong is shown
except in the fact of compelling payment. In other words, he
is charged with doing nothing that an officer ought not to have
done in attempting to make a collection. An averment that a
party has acted maliciously and with the intention of doing a
wanton injury does not add to the measure of relief obtainable
in an action of implied assumpsit. If it does in any action, it is
only in one sounding wholly in tort, in which malice and wantonness may sometimes justify exemplary damages.
The case stands thus: If this is to be treated as an action of
assumpsit, then the amount in controversy is not sufficient to
give the Circuit Court jurisdiction; if as an action of tort, then
it did not survive. But a party cannot unite the two; avail

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

himself of the large amount claimed on account of a tort in
order to vest jurisdiction in the Circuit Court, and then on the
death of the alleged wrongdoer prevent an abatement of the
action, which would necessarily take place if the action was only
for a tort, by reason of an averment of facts from which a contract to pay a small sum, one below the jurisdiction of the court,
might be implied. In other words, he cannot call it tort to
acquire jurisdiction, and contract to prevent abatement. The
plaintiff elected to go into court on an action sounding in tort.
It could not get in in any other way. It must abide by its election and cannot be permitted to transform its action thereafter
into one of contract. Abatement must therefore follow.
No judgment was entered in favor of the plaintiff. There
has been no adjudication in its favor either on the contract or
the tort. What disposition ought now to be made of the case?
In -Martinv. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad,151 U. S. 673, where
the action sounded wholly in tort, it was said (p. 703):
"The result is, that by the law of Virginia the administrator
has no right to maintain this action, and that by the statutes
of the United States regulating the proceedings in this court
he is not authorized to come in to prosecute this writ of error.
The only verdict and judgment below were in favor of the defendant, who is not moving to have that judgment affirmed or
set aside. The original plaintiff never recovered a verdict, judgment upon which might be entered or affirmed nunc pro tune
in his favor. If the judgment below against him should now,
upon the application of his administrator, be reversed and the
verdict set aside for error in the instructions to the jury, or,
according t.o
the old phrase, a venire de novo be awarded, no
new trial could be had, because the action has abated by his
death.

hemming v. Batchelor, above cited; Bowker v. Evans,

15 Q. B. D. 565; 8palding v. Congdon, 18 Wend. 543; Corbett
v. Twenty-third Street Railway, 114 N. Y. 579; Harris v.
Crenshaw, 3 Rand. 14, 24; Cummings v. Bird, 115 Mass. 346.
"The necessary conclusion is that, the action having abated
by the plaintiff's death, the entry must be writ of error dis.
missed."
We are inclined to think that such is not exactly the proper

GWIN v. UNr'ED STATES.
Syllabus.

disposition to be made of this case, because in the plaintiff's
cause of action is stated a claim for the recovery of a tax, which,
as alleged, it has been wrongfully compelled to pay. While
the Circuit Court may not have jurisdiction of an action for
that claim on account of the small amount thereof, it would
not be right to leave the present judgment as a bar to an action
in a court that could take jurisdiction. The proper judgment
is, and it is so ordered, that the case be remanded to the Circuit Court, with instructions to set aside its judgment and enter
one, abating the action by reason of the death of the defendant.
Case No. 194, between the same parties, involves the same
question, and will be disposed of in the same way.
MRh.

JUSTICE GRAY took no part in the decision of this case.

GWIN v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 172. Argued February 26, 28, 1902.-Decided March 24, 1902.

A decree of the District Court of the United States for the Northern District of California, rendered in 1855, was affirmed by this court, and remanded to the District Court, where a final decree was entered in 1859.
Subsequently in 1899, after a large amount of intermediate litigation, a
petition of intervention was filed in the District Court in the original
case, praying that the decree of 1859 might be ordered to be executed,
the proceedings having been originally begun in 1852 before the board
of land commissioners of California. A demurrer wqs filed to this petition, which was sustained and the petition dismissed. This was followed by another similar petition filed in 1900 which was also dismissed,
and an appeal taken to this court. Held: that the appeal originally allowed to this court by the act of 1851 was repealed in 1864, and an appeal
allowed to the Circuit Court of the United States; that this act was repealed by the act of 1891, which provided for an appeal to the Circuit
Court of Appeals, and that the appeal to this court must therefore be
dismissed.

