MINNESOTA v. NORTHERN SECURITIES 00.

199

Statement of the Case.

MINNESOTA v. NORTHERN SEOURITIES COMPANY.
ORIGINAL.
No. 10. Original. Argued January 27,1902.-Decided February 24,1902.
Whether a bill in equity, filed in the name of a State, seeking to prevent
by injunction a corporation organized under the laws of another State,
with power to acquire and hold shares. of the capital stock of any other
corporation, from obtaining and exercising ownership and control of two
or more competing railroad companies of the State, so as to evade and
defeat its laws and policy forbidding the consolidation of such railroads
when parallel and competing, is a controversy of which this court has
jurisdiction. The general rule in equity is that all persons materially interested, either
legally or beneficially, in the subject-matter of a suit, are to be made
parties to it; and the established practice of courts of equity to dismiss
the plaintiffs' bill if it appears that to grant the relief prayed for would
injuriously affect persons materially interested in the subject-matter
who are not made parties to the suit, is founded upon clear reasons, and
may be enforced by the court, slia sponte, though not raised by the
pleadings, or suggested by counsel.
The bill discloses that the parties to be affected by the decision of this
controversy are-directly the State of Minnesota, the Great Northern
Railway Company, and the Northern Pacific Railway Company, corporations of that State, and the Northern Securities Company, a corporation
of the State of New Jersey-and, indirectly, the stockholders and bondholders of those corporations, and of the numerous railway companies
whose lines are alleged to be owned, managed or controlled by the Great
Northern and Northern Pacific Railway Companies; and it is obvious
that the rights of the minority stockholders of the two railroad companies are not represented by the Northern Securities Company.
When it appears to a court of equity that a case, otherwise presenting
ground for its action, cannot be dealt with because of the absence of
essential parties; and it further appears that necessary and indispensable parties are beyond the reach of the jurisdiction of the court, or that,
as in this case, when made parties, the jurisdiction of the court will
thereby be defeated, it would be useless for the court to grant leave to
amend.

ON the 7th day of January, 1902, came the State of Minnesota, by Wallace B. Douglas, its Attorney General, and moved
the court for leave to file a bill of complaint against the Northern Securities Company, a corporation of the State of New

OcTulmirls-Apff; -nol.
Statement of the Case.

Jersey. Thereupon the court directed that notice of such application should be given to the defendant, and set the motion
for argument on January 27, 1902, when it was duly heard.
The bill proposed to be filed was in the following terms:
To tLe Judges of the Supreme Court of the United States of
America:
Your oratrix, the State of Minnesota, complainant, by Wallace B. Douglas, Attorney General thereof, brings this its bill
of complaint against the Northern Securities Company, a corporation organized under and by virtue of the laws of the State
of New Jersey, and alleges:
I.
That by an act of Congress, entitled "An act for the admission of Minnesota into the Union," approved May 11, A. D.
1858, the said State of Minnesota was admitted into the Union
upon an equal footing with the original States.
II.
That said Northern Securities Company is a corporation
organized as hereinafter alleged, under and by virtue of the
laws of the State of New Jersey, and is a citizen of the State
of New Jersey.
III.
A.
That by an act of the Congress of the United States, of
March 12, 1860, extending to the State of Minnesota the swamp
lands grant theretofore made to the State of Arkansas, and by
various subsequent acts, the Congress of the United States
donated to the State of Minnesota from the public domain
large quantities of lands situated within the State of Minnesota,
and of the value of several millions of dollars. That the State
of Minnesota now has left and undisposed of more than three
million acres of said lands, of the value of more than fifteen
million dollars, much of which said land is located in the territory traversed by the railroads of the Great Northern and
Northern Pacific Railway Companies, as hereinafter alleged.
That the value of said land, and the salability thereof, depends

"MINNESOTA ",. NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.

201

Statement of the Case.

in very large measure upon having free, uninterrupted and open
competition in passenger and freight rates over the lines of railway owned and operated by said Great Northern and Northern Pacific Railway Companies.
That many of said lands are vacant and unsettled and located
in regions not at present reached by railway lines, and depend
for settlement upon the construction of lines in the future; that
it has heretofore been the practice of said Great Northern
and Northern Pacific Railway Companies, respectively, to extend spur lines into territory adjacent to each of said roads, as
well as into new territory, for the purpose of developing such
territory, as well as to obtain traffic therefrom; that such new
lines have been built in the past very largely by reason of the
rivalry heretofore existing between said companies, for existing,
as well as new business; that under the consolidation and unity
of control hereinafter set forth, such rivalry will cease, and
many of the lands now owned by the State of Minnesota will
not be reached by railroads for years to come, if at all, owing to
such combination and consolidation removing all rivalry and
competition between said companies; that the settlement and
occupation of said lands will add-very much to their value,
and such occupation will depend entirely upon the accessibility
of railway lines and transportation facilities for marketing the
products raised thereon; that if said lands are sold and become
occupied, they will add very largely to the taxable value of the
property of the State, and that said lands cannot be sold or the
income of the State increased thereby without the construction
of railroad lines to, or adjacent to, the same.
B.
That the State of Minnesota is now and for many years past
has been the owner of, and continuously maintained, an educational institution for the benefit of its citizens, known as the
University of Minnesota; also a large number of hospitals for
the insane, within its territorial limits; also five normal schools
for the education of teachers within the State; also a state
training school for boys and girls; also several state schools
for the education, care and maintenance of the deaf, dumb,

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

blind and feeble-minded; also a state school for indigent and
homeless children; also a state penitentiary and reformatory.
That for many years past the State of Minnesota has continuously maintained and supported each of said institutions,
and in the care, maintenance and management thereof has been
compelled to and in the future, of necessity, will annually purchase large quantities of supplies for said institutions, including provisions, clothing and fuel, a great portion of which the
State of Minnesota is compelled to ship over the different lines
of railway owned and operated by the Northern Pacific Railway Company and the Great Northern Railway Company.
That the State of Minnesota is compelled to expend annually
more than seven hundred thousand dollars in the operation and
maintenance of said public institutions, most of which sum is
raised by general taxation upon the lands and other property
of the citizens of the State of Minnesota, and situated therein.
That the amount of taxes which said State of Minnesota can
collect, and the successful maintenance of its said public institutions, as well as the performance of its governmental functions
and affairs, depends largely upon the value of the real and personal property situated within its territorial limits, and the
general prosperity and business success of its citizens. That
the value of said real and personal property of the citizens of
the State of Minnesota, as well as their business success and
general prosperity, depend very largely upon maintaining in
said State free, open and unrestricted competition between the
railway lines of said Great Northern and Northern Pacific
Railway Companies respectively within said State.
C.
That it has been the settled policy and practice of the State
of Minnesota since its organization as a Territory to develop the
resources of the State by encouraging railroad building therein,
and in furtherance of this policy the Territory of Minnesota,
by an act thereof, under the date of May 22, 1857, granted to
the Minnesota and Pacific Railroad Company a charter, and
in consideration of the construction and maintenance of a line
of railway in Minnesota, by said company, said Territory do-

MINNESOTA v. NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.

203

Statement of the Case.

nated to it out of its public domain about seven hundred thousand
acres of land. That said Minnesota and Pacific Railroad Company thereafter became insolvent, and all its property was placed
in the hands of a receiver; that such proceeding were thereafter
had that all the property of the last named company, including
said land, was duly sold and conveyed to the St. Paul, Minneapolis and Manitoba Railway Company, hereinafter mentioned.
That the State of Minnesota, by an act of its legislature, and
in consideration of the construction and maintenance of a line
of railway by the Great Northern Railway Company, hereinafter referred to, between St. Cloud and Hinckley, a distance
of eighty-four miles, donated and conveyed to said last named
company upwards of four hundred thousand acres of land then
owned by and situated in the State of Minnesota, which said land
was then worth more than one million dollars. That in carrying
out said policy, and in aid of the building of railways within
the State of Minnesota, there has been granted out of the public domain within the limits of the State of Minnesota upwards
of 10,500,000 acres of land, nearly all of which has been granted
to said Great Northern and Northern Pacific Railway Companies, and the subsidiary companies owned and controlled by
them.
D.
of the State of Minnesota,
legislature
That by an act of the
approved March 3, 1881, entitled "An act granting swamp
lands to aid in the construction of the main line of the road of
the Little Falls and Dakota Railway Company," and which
now is a part of the Northern Pacific Railway Company system, hereinafter referred to, the State of Minnesota donated to
said Little Falls and Dakota Railway Company two hundred
and forty-three thousand five hundred and ninety-one (243,591)
acres of land situated in and then belonging to said State, in
consideration of the construction and maintenance by said last
named railway company of a line of railway extending from
Little Falls to Morris, in the State of Minnesota.
IV.
Your oratrix further alleges that immense quantities of wheat

OCTOBER TERMTI, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

and other products are shipped annually from East Grand Forks,
Crookston, Moorhead, Fergus Falls and other competitive points
within the State of Minnesota, and all on the lines of railway
of the said Great Northern and Northern Pacific Railway Companies, hereinafter referred to, to the cities of Duluth, St. Paul
and Minneapolis, within the State of Minnesota. That nearly
all of the shipment of such products made from the above named
initial points are consigned to various citizens at either the city
of Duluth, St. Paul or Minneapolis over one or the other of said
lines of railroad last above named. That enormous quantities
of merchandise have been and will continue to be shipped annually over said lines of railway, between the cities of St. Paul
and Minneapolis and various other cities and villages along said
lines of railway situated within the State of Minnesota, and
which are purchased and used entirely by the people of said
State. That the competition in both freight and passenger traffic to and from said places has always been sharp and active
between said railway companies, and has secured to the residents of said cities, as well as the State of Minnesota, and to
the State of Minnesota itself, much lower rates for both freight
and passengers than would otherwise have been obtained, or
than will or can be obtained in case the consolidation or unity
of control and management of said Great Northern and Northern Pacific Railway Companies, hereinafter alleged, is not enjoined as herein prayed.
V.
That the Great Northern Railway Company is a corporation
organized and existing under and by virtue of the laws of the
State of Minnesota, to wit, under an act duly passed by the
Territory of Minnesota, entitled "An act to incorporate the
Minneapolis and St. Cloud Railroad Company," approved March
first, A. D. 1856, and various subsequent acts of the State of
Minnesota amendatory thereof and supplemental thereto, respectively entitled as follows:
"An act to amend an act entitled ' An act to incorporate the
Minneapolis and St. Cloud Railroad Company,' passed March 1,
1856." Approved February 23, 1864.

MINNESOTA v. NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.

205

Statement of the Case.

"An act of the legislature of the State of Minnesota entitled
'An act granting swamp lands to aid the Minneapolis and St.
Cloud Railroad Company in building branches to connect with
the Lake Superior and Mississippi Railroad and the Winona
and St. Peter, or any other railroad in southern Minnesota.'
Approved February 11, 1865.
"An act to amend an act entitled ' An act to incoporate the
Minneapolis and St. Cloud Railroad Company,' approved
March 1, 1856, and to repeal certain portions of an act amending the charter of said company, passed February 23, 1864."
Approved February 28, 1865.
"An act to amend an act entitled ' An act granting swamp
lands to aid the Minneapolis and St. Cloud Railroad Company
in building branches to connect with the Lake Superior and
Mississippi Railroad and Winona and St. Peter Railroad, or any
other railroad in Southern Minnesota."' Approved March 5,
1869.
"An act to amend the charter of the Minneapolis and St.
Cloud Railroad Company." Approved March 6, 1869.
"An act to amend the charter of the Minneapolis and St.
Cloud Railroad Company." Approved March 2, 1870.
"An act to extend the time for the construction and completion of the branch of the Minneapolis and St. Cloud Railroad
Company." Approved March 11, 1879.
"An act to amend an act entitled 'An act granting swamp
lands to aid the Minneapolis and St. Cloud Railroad Company
in building branches to connect with the Lake Superior and
Mississippi Railroad and the Winona and St. Peter Railroad, or
any other railroad in southern Minnesota,' approved February 11, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and
sixty-five, as amended." Approved March 10, 1885.
That on the 16th day of September, 1889, the corporate name
of said company was duly changed to the Great Northern Railway Company. That during the year 1889 said railway company caused to be constructed a line of railway extending from
St. Cloud, Minnesota, to Hincldey, Minnesota, which line was
immediately conveyed to the St. Paul, Minneapolis and Manitob&Railway Company, a corporation duly organized and exist-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

ing under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Minnesota,
hereinafter referred to as the Manitoba Company. That said
Manitoba Company, prior to the first day of February, 1890,
had built, purchased and put in operation various lines of railway within the State of Minnesota, as well as in the States of
North Dakota, M'[ontana, Idaho and Washington, connecting
by rail the cities of St. Paul and Minneapolis, within the State
of Minnesota, and various other cities and villages within said
State, with each other, and with Puget Sound, on the Pacific
Ocean; which said railways are hereinafter more particularly
described.
That on the first day of February, 1890, said Manitoba Railway Company leased to the said Great Northern Railway Company, for a period of nine hundred and ninety-nine years, all of
the lines of railway, including the rolling stock then owned and
controlled by said Manitoba Company; that ever since said last
named date said Great Northern Railway Company has continued to and now does control, operate and maintain each and
all of said lines as one complete railroad system. That said
lines of railway so constructed by said Manitoba Company and
now so controlled, operated and maintained by said Great
Northern Railway Company under said lease, are described as
follows:
A line of railway extending from St. Paul, Minnesota, via
Minneapolis, Elk River, St. Cloud, Sauk Center, Fergus Falls,
Glyndon, Crookston to the northern boundary line of the State
of Minnesota at St. Vincent.
Another line of railway extending from Minneapolis, Minnesota, along the western bank of the Mississippi River to St.
Cloud, Minnesota.
Another line of railway extending from St. Cloud easterly to
Hinckley, Minnesota.
Another line of railway extending from Elk River, Minnesota, northward to Malaco, Minnesota, on the line of the St.
Cloud and Hinckley Branch, last above referred to.
Another line of railway extending from Minneapolis, Minnesota, to Breckenridge, Minnesota.
Another line extending from Sauk Center, Minnesota, to
Park Rapids, Minnesota.

MINNESOTA v. NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.

207

Statement of the Case.

Another line of railway extending from Hutchinson Junction
to Hutchinson, Minnesota.
Another line of railway extending from Benson, Minnesota,
thence in a westerly direction to the western boundary line of
the State; thence to Watertown, South Dakota.
Another line of railway extending from Evansville, Minnesota, westerly to the state boundary line, thence to Ellendale,
North Dakota.
Another line of railway extending from Moorhead, Minnesota, westerly to the state boundary line; thence to Wahpeton,
North Dakota.
Another line of railway extending from Moorhead, Minnesota, to Crookston, Minnesota.
Another line of railway extending from Barnesville, Minnesota, to Moorhead, Minnesota.
Another line of railway extending from Carman, Minnesota,
to Foster, Minnesota.
Another line of railway extending from Crookston, Minnesota, to Red Lake Falls and Thief River Falls, Minnesota.
All of the foregoing lines being situated in the State of
Minnesota, except as hereinafter otherwise expressly stated.
That said Great Northern Railway Company now either
owns or controls, and operates and maintains, by virtue of said
lease, a line or system of railways connecting with said lines
above referred to, and extending from the western boundary
line of the State of Minnesota through the States of North
Dakota, Montana, Idaho and Washington, to Puget Sound on
the Pacific Coast. The said railway lines covered by said lease,
or owned by said Great Northern Railway Company, aggregate a total of about four thousand five hundred miles.
That many of said railroads above described being located
within the State of Minnesota, were built by subsidiary companies or corporations, and said Great Northern Railway Company now owns all of the capital stock of such corporations in
addition and as supplemental to said lease; and in addition
thereto said Great Northern Railway Company owns all of the
capital stock of the Eastern Railway Company of Minnesota,
a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Minne-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

sota, and which owns and operates a railway line extending
from the cities of St. Paul and Minneapolis to Duluth, Minnesota; and from Duluth, Minnesota, to Bemidji, Minnesota; and
by virtue of such ownership of stock said Great Northern Railway Company dictates the policy of said railway company and
controls the lines of railway and properties of said Eastern
Railway Company, and operates the same as a part of the
Great Northern system of railway.
That said Great Northern Railway Company also owns all of
the capital stock of the Willmar and Sioux Falls Railroad Company, a corporation owning a railroad extending from Willmar,
Minnesota, to Yankton, South Dakota, and by virtue of such
ownership of stock dictates the policy of and owns and controls the railway line and property of said Willmar and Sioux
Falls Railroad Company.
That all of the railways and railway lines hereinbefore described are operated and controlled by and form a complete
system under the name of said Great Northern Railway Company.
That the charter of said Great Northern Railway Company
provides as follows: "That all of the affairs and business of
said company shall be conducted by or under the direction of a
board of directors, and they are authorized, for the purposes
specified in this act, to make and establish regulations and bylaws, and to do all things necessary to be done and not inconsistent with the Constitution and laws of the United States, or
the laws of this Territory, or this act."
Your oratrix further alleges that the board of directors of
said Great Northern Railway Company, at the time of the
organization of the Northern Securities Company, hereinafter
referred to, to wit, on or about the 13th day of November, 1901,
was and now is composed of the following named persons, to
wit: James J. Hill, James N. Hill, Samuel Hill, William P.
Clough, Edward Sawyer, M. D. Grover, Jacob fl. Schiff and
Henry W. Cannon; and at said date the managing or executive officers of said corporation were and now are as follows:
President, James J. Hill; Vice President, William P. Clough;
Secretary and Assistant Treasurer, E. T. Nichols. That on

MINNESOTA v. NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.

209

Statement of the Case.

said last named date said Great Northern Railway Company
had issued, and there was then outstanding, a total of one hundred and twenty-five million dollars, par value, of the capital
stock of said corporation, and your oratrix is informed and believes, and upon information and belief alleges, that said James
J. Hill was on said last named date the owner of or in possession and control of, or had subject to his direction and disposition, more than a majority of said capital stock so outstanding.
VI.
That the Northern Pacific Railway Company was formerly
a corporation organized and existing under and by virtue of an
act of the Congress of the United States, entitled, "An act
granting land to aid in the construction of a railroad and telegraph line from Lake Superior to Puget Sound on the Pacific
Coast, by the northern route," approved July 2, 1864; and a
joint resolution of Congress extending the time for the completion of said railroad until July 1, 1868; and a joint resolution
granting the consent of Congress provided for in section ten of
said act, incorporating the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, approved March 1, 1869; the joint resolution of Congress granting the right of way for the construction of a railroad from Portland, Oregon, to a point west of the Cascade
Mountains in Washington Territory, approved April 1, 1869;
the joint resolution of Congress authorizing the Northern Pacific Railroad Company to issue its bonds for the construction
of its road, and to secure the same by mortgage, and for other
purposes, approved May 31, 1870. And complainant asks leave
to refer to and have each of said acts and resolutions considered
as though fully herein set forth.
That under and in pursuance of the said several acts and
joint resolutions of Congress, the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company constructed and put into operation, prior to January 1, 1890, all of its main line of road, extending from Ashland, in the State of Wisconsin, westward across the States of
Minnesota, North Dakota, Montana and Idaho, and in the
State of Washington to Walla Walla Junction; also all that
other part of its main line of railroad extending from Portland,
VOL. CLXXXIV-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

Oregon, to Tacoma, Washington ; also the whole of its Cascade
Branch, extending from Pasco Junction, in the State of Washington, to Tacoma, in the State of Washington.
That said Northern Pacific Railroad Company had also,
prior to said first day of January, 1880, acquired and then
owned all of the capital stock of the following named railroad
companies and corporations, to wit, the St. Paul and Northern
Pacific Railroad Company, a corporation organized under the
laws of the State of Minnesota, and which then owned a railroad extending from St. Paul, Minnesota, to Brainerd, Minnesota; and from Little Falls, Minnesota, to Staples, Minnesota;
also of the Duluth and Manitoba Railroad Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Minnesota, and
which then owned a line of railroad extending from Winnipeg
Junction, Minnesota, via Red Lake Falls, Minnesota, to the
western boundary line of said State, and thence to Grand
Forks, North Dakota; and thence to the international boundary line between the state of North Dakota and Canada; also
of the Duluth, Crookston and Northern Railroad Company, a
corporation organized under the laws of the State of Minnesota, and which then owned a railroad extending from Fertile
Junction, Minnesota, through Crookston to Carthage Junction,
Minnesota; also of the Little Falls and Dakota Railroad Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of
Minnesota, and which then owned a railroad extending from
Little Falls, Minnesota, to Morris, Minnesota; also of the
Northern Pacific, Fergus Falls and Black Hills Railroad Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of
Minnesota, and which owned a line of railroad extending from
Wadena, Minnesota, thence westerly to the western boundary
line of the State; and thence to North Dakota points; also all
of the capital stock of various railroad corporations or companies organized in the States of North Dakota, South Dakota,
Montana and Washington, which owned and operated various
railvay lines in said States respectively. The said railway
lines built by said companies within the State of Minnesota, as
well as those built outside of the State of Minnesota, and the
capital stock of the corporations so building said lines, and

MINNESOTA v. NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.

211

Statement of the Case.
owned by said Northern Pacific Railroad Company, as hereinbefore alleged, were operated, managed and controlled by said
Northern Pacific Railroad Company as a system of railway or
railways extending from and between various points in the
State of Minnesota, more specifically hereinafter referred to,
through said State and thence to the Pacific Coast; and aggregate about four thousand five hundred miles of railway.
VII.
That the Northern Pacific Railway Company is now and for
upwards of five years last past has been a corporation organized
under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Wisconsin; said
corporation being organized during the year 1895. That thereafter and prior to the time said Northern Pacific Railway Company became possessed of and the owner of the railway lines
and property formerly owned and operated by said Northern
Pacific Railroad Company, said Northern Pacific Railway Company filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Minnesota,
in accordance with the terms and provisions of the laws of said
State of Minnesota, a duly authenticated and certified copy of
its articles of incorporation, and thereupon said Northern Pacific
Railway Company became a corporation of and within the
State of Minnesota, and subject to all of the laws, regulations
and provisions of said State of Minnesota relating to railway
or railroad corporations, including those acts or parts of acts
hereinafter specifically pleaded or referred to.
That under the charter or articles of incorporation of said
Northern Pacific Railway Company the powers of said company are delegated to and exercised by a board of fifteen directors; that during the month of April, 1901, the followingnamed persons constituted and now are the members of the
board of directors of said last named company: James J. Hill,
Robert Bacon, George F. Baker, E. H. Harriman, H. McK.
Twombly, Brayton Ives, D. Willis James, John S. Kennedy,
Daniel S. Lamont, Charles S. Mellen, Samuel Rea, William
Rockefeller, Charles Steele, James Stillman and Eben B. Thomas.
That on the 13th day of November, 1901, J. Pierpont Morgan,
with certain other persons to your oratrix unknown, but who

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

were acting with said Morgan, owned and had in their possession, or held under and subject to their control and disposition,
upwards of eighty-five per cent of the total capital stock of
said Northern Pacific Railway Company then outstanding.
That the total amount of capital stock of said Northern Pacific
Railway Company then issued and outstanding amounts to one
hundred and fifty-five millions of dollars, par value, seventy-five
millions of dollars of which was preferred stock, subject to retirement as provided by the articles of incorporation and agreement under which the same was issued.
That during the year 1893 the said Northern Pacific Railroad Company became insolvent, and all of the property of said
last named company, of whatever kind or character, was duly
placed in the hands of receivers appointed for that purpose by
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Wisconsin; and thereafter, in proceedings ancillary thereto,
by the various Circuit Courts of the United States in whose
jurisdictions said property was located. That after said Northern Pacific Railway Company had filed its said articles of incorporation in the State of Minnesota and had become subject
to its laws, and during the year 1896, said Northern Pacific
Railway Company duly purchased and became the owner of
the entire railroad properties and railway lines, including the
'right of way, rolling stock and capital stock, formerly owned
by said Northern Pacific Railroad Company; and immediately
thereafter entered into the possession thereof; and at all times
since has continuously owned and operated each and all of the
said lines of railway so situated within the State of Minnesota,
and which connect the cities of St. Paul and Minneapolis and
Duluth, and various other villages and cities within the State
of Minnesota, and connect with the lines of railway outside of
said State of Minnesota.
That during the year 1899 said Northern Pacific Railway
Company purchased, and ever since has owned and operated,
a line of railway extending from the cities of St. Paul and
Minneapolis to Duluth, Minnesota; that said last named line
parallels and is a competing line of railway for both freight
and passenger traffic with the line of railway between said

'MINNESOTA

v. NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.

213

Statement of the Case.

Minneapolis and St. Paul and Duluth, hereinbefore described,
and which is owned by said Eastern Railway Company of
Minnesota, but operated, controlled and managed by said Great
Northern Railway Company as a part of the system of said last
named company, as hereinbefore alleged.
That the lines of railway now owned and operated by said
Great Northern Railway Company within the State of Minnesota are parallel and competing lines for freight and passenger
traffic with the lines of railway now owned, operated and controlled by said Northern Pacific Railway Company within the
State of Minnesota, between the following points in said State,
to wit: The cities of St. Paul and Minneapolis and the city of
Duluth, Minnesota, and the various cities and villages between
said points; also between the cities of St. Paul and Minneapolis and Crookston, Minnesota, by way of Fergus Falls and the
various cities and villages between said points; also between
the cities of St. Paul and Minneapolis and Crookston by way
of Breckenridge, and the towns and cities between said points;
and also between the cities of Duluth and Crookston, and the
cities and villages between said points, as well as the country
adjacent to the lines of railway between each and all of said
cities; and the said lines of railway owned, operated and controlled by said Great Northern Railway Company, and also the
lines of railway owned, operated and controlled by said Northern Pacific Railway Company which connect with the said
lines of railway owned, operated and controlled by each of said
companies respectively within the State of Minnesota, are parallel and competing lines through the States of North Dakota,
Montana, Idaho and Washington to Puget Sound on the Pacific
Coast for passenger and freight traffic. That during all of the
time aforesaid each and all of said lines of railway were maintained and operated by said respective companies as common
carriers of freight and passengers within the State of Minnesota;
and that said companies are now, and for upwards of eleven
years last past have been, the only railway companies owning
or operating lines of railway crossing the State of Minnesota
and connecting the Pacific Ocean by rail with points in Minnesota; also the only lines of railway traversing east and west

OCTOBER TERML,

1901.

Statement of the Case.

the northern tier of States of the United States lying west of
the Mississippi River, and connecting such territory and territory tributary thereto by rail with the Pacific Ocean; and, with
one exception, the only hnes of railway crossing the north half
of the State of Minnesota in any direction.
VIII.
That the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railway Company is and, for many years last past has been, a corporation
duly organized and existing under and by virtue of the laws of
the State of Illinois; and, as such, until the disposition of its
capital stock as hereinafter alleged, owned, operated and controlled an extensive system of railway lines extending from the
city of Chicago, in the State of Illinois, in a westerly direction
to the city of Denver, in the State of Colorado; and also in a
westerly and northwesterly direction from said city of Chicago,
to the city of Billings, in the State of Montana; which last
named point is a junction and competitive point for freight and
passenger traffic with the said Northern Pacific Railway Company; and also from said city of Chicago to the cities of St.
Paul and Minneapolis, in the State of Minnesota; and in addition to said main lines, owned, operated and controlled a large
number of connecting and tributary lines, extending to various
cities and towns in the States of Illinois, Iowa, Missouri, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Nebraska, Kansas, Wyoming and Montana.
That the total mileage of said railway company is approximately
seven thousand four hundred miles. That during the year 1901
the said Great Northern Railway Company and said Northern
Pacific Railway Company jointly purchased ninety-eight per
cent of the total capital stock of said Chicago, Burlington and
Quincy Railway Company, aggregating approximately one
hundred and seven millions of dollars, par value, and now own
the same; and issued in payment therefor the joint bonds of
said Great Northern and Northern Pacific Railway Companies, payable in twenty years from the date thereof, and bearing interest at the rate of four per cent per annum, payable
semi-annually. That said Great Northern and Northern Pacific
Railway Companies issued and delivered in exchange for each

MINNESOTA v.NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.

215

Statement of the Case.

one hundred dollars in amount of said Chicago, Burlington and
Quincy Railway Company stock two hundred dollars in amount
of the said bonds.
That under and by virtue of the purchase of said stock the
joint ownership and control of the said Chicago, Burlington
and Quincy Railway Company is vested in and ever since has
been exercised by the said Great Northern and Northern Pacific
Railway Companies.
Ix.
That the defendant Northern Securities Company is a corporation organized, existing and doing business under and by
virtue of the laws of the State of New Jersey. That said corporation was organized on the 13th day of November, A. D.
1901, with its principal office for the transaction of its business
located at the city of Hoboken, county of Hudson and State of
New Jersey, and is a citizen of the State of New Jersey.
That the articles of incorporation of said Northern Securities
Company are as follows:
CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION
OF

NORTHERNx SECURITIES COWPANY.
STATE OF NEW JERSEY, 8s:

We, the undersigned, in order to form a corporation for the
purposes hereinafter stated, under and pursuant to the provisions of the act of the legislature of the State of New Jersey,
entitled "An act concerning corporations (Revision of 1896),
and the acts amendatory thereof and supplementary thereto,"
do hereby certify as follows:
First. The name of the corporation is Northern Securities
Company.
Second. The location of its principal office in the State of
New Jersey is at No. 51 Newark street, in the city of Hoboken,
county of Hudson. The name of the agent therein, and in
charge thereof, upon whom process against the corporation
may be served, is Hudson Trust Company. Such office is to be
the registered office of the corporation.
Third. The objects for which the corporation is formed are:

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

(1) To acquire by purchase, subscription or otherwise, and to
hold as investment, any bonds or other securities or evidences
of indebtedness, or any shares of capital stock created or issued
by any other corporation or corporations, association or associations, of the State of New Jersey, or of any other State, Territory or country.
(2) To purchase, hold, sell, assign, transfer, mortgage, pledge,
or otherwise dispose of, any bonds or other securities or evidences of indebtedness created or issued by any other corporation or corporations, association or associations, of the State of
:New Jersey, or of any other State, Territory or country, and,
while owner thereof, to exercise all the rights, powers and privileges of ownership.
(3) To purchase, hold, sell, assign, transfer, mortgage, pledge,
or otherwise dispose of, shares of the capital stock of any other
corporation or corporations, association or associations, of the
State of New Jersey, or of any other State, Territory or country; and, while owners of such stock, to exercise all the rights,
powers and privileges of ownership, including the right to vote
thereon.
(4) To aid in any manner any corporation or association of
which any bonds, or other securities or evidences of indebtedness or stock are held by the corporation; and to do any acts
or things designed to protect, preserve, improve or enhance the
value of any such bonds or other securities or evidences of indebtedness or stock.
(5) To acquire, own and hold such real and personal property
as may be necessary or convenient for the transaction of its
business.
The business or purpose of the corporation is from time to
time to do any one or more of the acts and things herein set
forth.
The corporation shall have power to conduct its business in
other States and in foreign countries, and to have one or more
offices out of this State, and to hold, purchase, mortgage and
convey real and personal property out of this State.
Fourth. The total authorized capital stock of the corporation
is four hundred million dollars ($400,000,000), divided into four

MINNESOTA v. NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.

217

Statement of the Case.

million (4,000,000) shares of the par value of one hundred dollars ($100) each. The amount of the capital stock with which
the corporation will commence business is thirty thousand
dollars.
Fifth. The names and post-office addresses of the incorporators, and the number of shares of stock subscribed for by each
(the aggregate of such subscriptions being the amount of capital stock with which this company will commence business) are
as follows:
Name and post office address.

George F. Baker, Jr., 258 Madison avenue .........
New York, New York.
Abram If. Hyatt, 214 Allen avenue ..............
Allenhurst, New Jersey.
Richard Trimble, 53 East Twenty-fifth street ......
New York, New York.

Number

100
100
100

Sixth. The duration of the corporation shall be perpetual.
Seventh. The number of directors of the corporation shall be
fixed from time to time by the by-laws; but the number, if
fixed at more than three, shall be some multiple of three. The
directors shall be classified with respect to the time for which
they shall severally hold office by dividing them into three
classes, each consisting of one third of the whole number of the
board of directors. The directors of the first class shall be
elected for a term of one year; the directors of the second class
for a tern of two years; and the directors of the third class for
a term of three years; and at each annual election the successors to the class of directors whose terms shall expire in that
year shall be elected to hold office for the term of three years,
so that the term of office of one class of directors shall expire
in each year.
In case of any increase of the number of directors the additional directors shall be elected as may be provided in the bylaws, by the directors or by the stockholders at an annual or
special meeting, and one third of their number shall be elected
for the then unexpired portion of the term of the directors of
the first class, one third of their number for the unexpired por-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

tion of the term of the directors of the second class, and one
third of their number for the unexpired portion of the term of
the directors of the third class, so that each class of directors
shall be increased equally.
In case of any vacancy in any class of directors through
death, resignation, disqualification or other cause, the remaining directors, by affirmative vote of a majority of the board of
directors, may elect a successor to hold office for the unexpired
portion of the term of the director whose place shall be vacant,
and until the election of a successor.
The board of directors shall have power to hold their meetings outside the State of New Jersey at such places as from time
to time may be designated by the by-laws, or by resolution of
the board. The by-laws may prescribe the number of directors
necessary to constitute a quorum of the board of directors,
which number may be less than a majority of the whole number of the directors.
As authorized by the act of the legislature of the State of
New Jersey passed March 22, 1901, amending the seventeenth
section of the act concerning corporations (Revision of 1896),
any action which theretofore required the consent of the holders of two thirds of the stock at any meeting after notice to
them given, or required their consent in writing to be filed,
may be taken upon the consent of, and the consent given and
filed by, the holders of two thirds of the stock of each class
represented at such meeting in person or by proxy.
Any officer elected or appointed by the board of directors
may be removed at any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the whole board of directors. Any other officer or
employ6 of the corporation may be removed at any time by
vote of the board of directors, or by any committee or superior
officer upon whom such power of removal may be conferred by
the by-laws, or by vote of the board of directors.
The board of directors, by the affirmative vote of a majority
of the whole board, may appoint from the directors an executive
committee, of which a majority shall constitute a quorum; and
to such extent as shall be provided in the by-laws, such committee shall have and may exercise all or any of the powers of

IMINNESOTA u. NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.

219

Statement of the Case.

board of directors, including power to cause the seal of the corporation to be affixed to all papers that may require it.
The board of directors may appoint one or more vice presidents, one or more assistant treasurers, and one or more assistant secretaries; and, to the extent provided in the by-laws, the
persons so appointed respectively shall have and may exercise
all the powers of the president, of the treasurer, and of the secretary, respectively.
The board of directors shall have power from time to time to
fix and to determine and to vary the amount of the working
capital of the corporation; to determine whether any, and if
any, what part of any accumulated profits shall be declared in
dividends and paid to the stockholders; to determine the time
or times for the declaration and the payment of dividends; and
to direct and to determine the use and disposition of any surplus or net profits over and above the capital stock paid in ; and
in its discretion the board of directors may use and apply any
such surplus or accumulated profits in purchasing or acquiring
its bonds or other obligations, or shares of the capital stock of
the corporation, to such extent and in such manner and upon
such terms as the board of directors shall deem expedient; but
shares of such capital stock so purchased or acquired may be
resold, unless such shares shall have been retired for the purpose of decreasing the capital stock of the corporation to the
extent authorized by law.
The board of directors from time to time shall determine
whether and to what extent, and at what times and places, and
under what conditions and regulations, the accounts and books
of the corporation, or any of them shall be open to the inspection of the stockholders, and no stockholder shall have any
right to inspect any account or book or document of the corporation, except as conferred by statute of the State of New
Jersey, or authorized by the board of directors or by a resolution of the stockholders.
The board of directors may make by-laws, and, from time to
time, may alter, amend or repeal any by-laws; but any by-laws
made by the board of directors may be altered or repealed
by the stockholders at any annual meeting, or at any special

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

meeting, provided notice of such proposed alteration or repeal
be included in the notice of the meeting.
In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and seals,
the twelfth day of November, 1901.
GEORGE F. BAKER, JR. (L. s.)

M.

HYArT.

(L. s.)

RICHARD TRIMBLE.

(L. S.)

ABRAM

Signed, sealed and delivered in presence ofGEORGE HoLMEs.
STATE

OF

NEW

YORK,)

CouxTY OF NEW YORK,

88:

MANHATTAN,

Be it remembered, that on this twelfth day of November,
1901, before the undersigned, personally appeared George F.
Baker, Junior, Abram M. Hyatt, Richard Trimble, who, I am
satisfied, are the persons named in and who executed the foregoing certificate, and I, having first made known to them, and
to each of them, the contents thereof, they did each acknowledge that they signed, sealed and delivered the same as their
voluntary act and deed.

GEORGE HOLMES,

Xaster in Chanceryof NVew Jersey.

Endorsed: "Received in the Hudson Co., N. J., Clerk's office, Nov. 13, A. D. 1901, and recorded in Clerk's Record, No.
Maurice J. Stack, Clerk. Filed Nov. 13,
.
, on page 1901, George Wurts, Secretary of State."
That said Northern Securities Company was incorporated at
the instigation and request, and under the direction of James
J. Hill and William P. Clough, and certain other stockholders
of said Great Northern Railway Company to your oratrix unknown, who were co6perating with said James J. Hill and
William P. Clough, and who, with said Hill and Clough, owned
and controlled, or have the disposition and management, as
hereinafter alleged, of a very large majority of the capital
stock of said Great Northern Railway Company; and J. Pierpont Morgan and certain other stockholders of said Northern
Pacific Railway Company, to your oratrix unknown, who were
co6perating with said Morgan, and who, with said Morgan,

MINNESOTA v. NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.
Statement of the Case.

owned and controlled, or have the disposition and management of, a very large majority of the capital stock of said
Northern Pacific Railway Company. That said Northern Securities Company was formed by George F. Baker, Jr., and
Richard Trimble, of the city of New York and State of New
York, and Abram Hyatt, of Allenhurst, in the State of New
Jersey, who adopted the said articles of incorporation. That
said three last named parties had no interest in said corporation other than the formation of the same for and at the request of said James J. Hill, William P. Clough, J. Pierpont
Morgan, and their several associate stockholders of said Great
Northern Railway Company and said Northern Pacific Railway Company, as above alleged, acting in concert with said
parties.
That said James J. Hill, William P. Clough and J. Pierpont
Morgan, who, with their associates, did on said 13th day of November, 1901, and prior thereto, own and control a large majority of the capital stock of both said Great Northern Railway
Company and said Northern Pacific Railway Company, were
prior to, and at the time of, the organization of said Northern
Securities Company, almost continually in conference with each
other and with a large number of other stockholders of said Great
Northern Railway Company and said Northern Pacific Railway
Company, but whose names are to your oratrix unknown, considering such organization and the scheme and agreement herein
referred to, and the means and manner by which the laws of
Minnesota, hereinafter referred to, could be most successfully
evaded or avoided, all of which facts were well known to the
organizers of said Northern Securities Company, including the
parties executing the'said articles of incorporation. That said
Northern Securities Company was organized solely for the
purpose of carrying out and accomplishing the designs, agreement and plans of said James J. Hill and J. Pierpont Morgan
and their said associate stockholders, as herein set forth, and to
effect a consolidation of the property, railway lines, corporate
powers and franchises of said Great Northern and Northern
Pacific Railway Companies, respectively, through said defendant the Northern Securities Company.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

That prior to the organization of said Northern Securities
Company the said owners and holders of a large majority of
the capital stock of said Great Northern Railway Company, as
well as the owners and holders of a large majority of the capital stock of said Northern Pacific Railway Company, as a part
of the scheme or plan herein alleged, as well as a part of the
plan and purpose of the organization of said Northern Securities Company, entered into a mutual agreement or arrangement,
the exact terms of which are unknown to your oratrix, but which
is in substance as follows:
The said owners of a large majority of the capital stock of
said Great Northern Railway Company and said Northern
Pacific Railway Company mutually agreed with each other
and certain persons who thereafter became the officers and
directors of said Northern Securities Company, to transfer or
cause to be transferred to said Northern Securities Company
in exchange for the capital stock of said last named company
substantially all of the capital stock of said Great Northern
Railway Company and said Northern Pacific Railway Company, respectively; the said capital stock of the Great Northern Railway Company to be transferred to and exchanged for
the capital stock of the said Northern Securities Company on
the basis of one share of the capital stock of the Great Northern Railway Company for one and 80-100 shares of the capital
stock of said Northern Securities Company, and one share of
the common stock of said Northern Pacific Railway Company
for one and 15-100 shares of the capital stock of said Northern
Securities Company. The $75,000,000 of the preferred stock
of said Northern Pacific Railway Company to be retired in
accordance with the provisions of the articles of incorporation
of said Northern Pacific Railway Company, and the conditions
and agreements under which the same was issued; said retirement to take place on the 1st day of January, 1902. The funds
for retiring said preferred stock to be raised by the issuance by
said Northern Pacific Railway Company of its negotiable bonds,
bearing date November 15, 1901, of the aggregate amount of
seventy-five million dollars, payable January 1, 1907, in gold
coin of the United States, with interest thereon at the rate of

MINNESOTA v. NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.

223

Statement of the Case.
four per cent per annum, payable semi-annually in like gold
coin, from and after January 1, 1902. The said bonds, however, to be convertible at the option of either the holders
thereof, or said railway company, into shares of the common
stock of said Northern Pacific Railway Company at the rate
of one share of stock for each one hundred dollars of the principal sum of such bonds, and the said common stock, when so
taken in exchange for such bonds, to be converted into stock of
said Northern Securities Company upon the basis of one share
for each one and 15-100 shares of stock of said Northern Securities Company.
That said preferred stock could only be retired by resolution
of the board of directors of said Northern Pacific Railway Company; that a very large majority of said preferred stock was
owned by certain individuals who were opposed to the agreement and plan herein referred to relative to turning over the
management and control of said Northern Pacific Railway Company to said Northern Securities Company, and the holding of
its stock by said Northern Securities Company; that the owners of said preferred stock so opposed to said agreement and
plan were also owners of sufficient of the common stock of said
Northern Pacific Railway Company to give them a small majority of the total capital stock of said Northern Pacific Railway
Company; thus making it necessary, in order to carry out the
plan and agreement herein set forth and to vest the management and control of said Northern Pacific Railway Company
in said Northern Securities Company in the manner and for the
purposes herein alleged, to retire said preferred stock; all of
which was well known to the board of directors of said Northern Pacific Railway Company and to said J. Pierpont Morgan
and his associate stockholders of said Northern Pacific Railway
Company, as well as said Northern Securities Company.
That on or about the 13th day of November, 1901, the board
of directors of said Northern Pacific Railway Company took
such official action as was necessary to retire said preferred
stock upon the basis and in accordance with the plan and agreement herein set forth; and thereafter said preferred stock was
retired by the issuance of convertible bonds to the amount and

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

in the manner herein alleged. That immediately after the retirement of said preferred stock, said Northern Pacific Railway
Company, acting through its board of directors and executive
officers, exercised its right and option of declaring said bonds
to be convertible into the shares of the common stock of said
Northern Pacific Railway Company, and thereupon the same
were so converted and the common stock of said Northern Pacific Railway Company issued in exchange therefor, upon the
basis and for the purposes herein alleged. That in order to
prevent the persons who owned said preferred stock, and who
were opposed to the carrying out of the plan and agreement
herein referred to, from acquiring a like control of the common
stock, it was provided that the $75,000,000 of common stock
into which the said bonds were convertible could only be subscribed for and taken by holders of the then outstanding
$80,000,000 of the common capital stock of said Northern Pa-.
cific Railway Company; each share of said common stock then
outstanding entitling the owner and holder thereof to take an
additional seventy-five eightieths of a share of said $75,000,000
additional common stock. That the retirement of said preferred
stock and the conversion of the said bonds into common stock
of said Northern Pacific Railway Company, and the exchange
of said common stock for stock of said Northern Securities Company, as herein alleged, were each and all a part of the agreement, plan and scheme of said J. Pierpont M[organ and his said
associate stockholders of said Northern Pacific Railway Company who then and there owned and controlled a large majority of the then outstanding common stock of said Northern
Pacific Railway Company, under and by which the complete
management and control of said Northern Pacific Railway Coin
pany was to be, and was thereafter, turned over to and vested
in said Northern Securities Company in order that said Northern Pacific Railway Company, its property and franchises,
might be in effect consolidated with the property and franchises
of said Great Northern Railway Company, as herein alleged.
That said James J. Hill and his associate stockholders of said
Great Northern Railway Company had full knowledge of and
assisted in retiring said preferred stock for the purposes and

MINNESOTA v.'NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.

225

Statement of the Case.

objects herein alleged. That as a part of said agreement and
plan entered into between said James J. Hill and his associate
stockholders and said J. Pierpont Morgan and his associate
stockholders, each and all of whom were then, and are now,
acting in concert for the purpose of evading and violating the
laws of the State of Minnesota, in the manner, for the purposes,
and with the object and design herein set forth, and in furtherance of said purposes and design, and to avoid the effect of any
litigation which might be instituted to defeat the consummation
of the agreement, plan and scheme herein referred to of vesting
the complete management and control of the railway lines,
properties and franchises of said Great Northern and Northern
Pacific Railway Companies in said defendant Northern Securities Company, said parties further undertook and agreed with
each other and the persons who thereafter became the officers
and directors of the defendant Northern Securities Company
that pending the delivery and transfer of a majority of the capital stock of said Great Northern Railway Company to said
Northern Securities Company, the same should be held by or
under the control of some person or corporation to your oratrix
unknown; and that pending such delivery it was mutually
agreed between said Hill and his associate stockholders and
said Morgan and his associate stockholders and the persons who
thereafter became the directors and officers of the defendant,
as well as the person or corporation so temporarily holding said
stock that the same should be held during said period for the
purposes above set forth in trust for the use and benefit of the
defendant, the Northern Securities Company; and that during
such time the parties holding said stock should attend and vote
the same at all meetings of the stockholders of said Great Northern Railway Company, in the interests of the defendant, and
as directed by the board of directors of said Northern Securities
Company or the executive committee thereof, or in unison with
the stock of said railway companies, actually assigned to and
held by the defendant. That said Northern Securities Company
has not purchased and does not intend to purchase the stock of
'either of said railway companies, except by issuing its stock in
exchange for and in lieu of the stock of said railway companies

VOL,. OiLXXXIV-15

OCTOBER TERAI, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

on the basis and in the manner and for the purposes herein alleged.
That for the unlawful purposes aforesaid the said Northern
Securities Company, by circular letter heretofore issued to the
public, has offered and is still offering to issue and exchange for
the capital stock of the said Great Northern and Northern
Pacific Railway Companies, capital stock of said Northern
Securities Company to the amount of one hundred and eighty
dollars par value thereof for each share of capital stock of said
Great Northern Railway Company, and to the amount of one
hundred and fifteen dollars par value thereof for each share of
stock of said Northern Pacific Railway Company. And that
the said Northern Securities Company is about to receive, on
the basis aforesaid, and will, unless enjoined therefrom, receive,
hold and hereafter control all the capital stock of said Great
Northern and Northern Pacific Railway Companies.
X.
That the organization of said Northern Securities Company
in the manner hereinbefore alleged, and the making of said
agreement or arrangement hereinbefore referred to, are each
and all a part of a scheme or plan on the part of said James J.
Hill and his said associate stockholders of the Great Northern
Railway Company, and J. Pierpont Morgan and his said associate holders of the stock of said Northern Pacific Railway
Company, under and by which the said two last named railway
companies are to be in effect consolidated, and the complete
management and control of the business affairs of said corporations respectively placed in one body and under the direction
and control of one man or one board of directors, through and
by means of said defendant. That pursuant to said plan, agreement and arrangement, and in consummation thereof, and for
the purpose of placing the complete management and control
of said Great Northern Railway Company and said Northern
Pacific Railway Company under one management, and for the
purpose of establishing, in effect, a consolidation of said railway companies, together with said railway lines and properties,
in and through said defendant, the said J. Pierpont Morgan

MINNESOTA v. NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.

927

Statement of the Case.

and his associate stockholders have actually assigned and delivered to said Northern Securities Company upwards of eightyfive per cent of the total capital stock of said Northern Pacific
Railway Company; and your oratrix alleges, on information and
belief, that said James J. Hill, and his associate stockholders
of said Great Northern Railway Company have also actually
assigned and delivered to said Northern Securities Company
upwards of eighty-five per cent of the said capital stock of said
Great Northern Railway Company. That the sole purpose,
object and effect of the transfer of said stock by said James J.
Hill and his said associates and the said J. Pierpout Morgan
and his said associates to said Northern Securities Company
was and is to transfer to and vest in said defendant Northern
Securities Company the complete management and control of
the respective lines of railway and railway properties of each
of said railway companies within and without the State of
Minnesota, and to place the complete management and control
of the same, and the power to dictate the policy of each of
said corporations, as well as the power and authority to fix
rates and charges for the transportation of both freight and
passengers within the State of Minnesota, as well as without
said State, in the hands of and under the control of one party
or board of directors, and thereby create, foster and perpetuate
a monopoly in railvay traffic in the State of Minnesota.
That the purpose, object and effect of the incorporation of
the defendant and the receipt by it of a controlling amount of
the capital stock of the said Northern Pacific and Great Northern Railway Companies, as well as each act of the officers and
board of directors thereof, in entering into, adopting or executing the agreement or plan herein set forth, including the issuance
and exchange of the capital stock of the Northern Securities
Company for the stock of the said Northern Pacific and Great
Northern Railway Companies on the basis hereinbefore set
forth, was and is to place the said railway companies and the
property and franchises thereof under a single management,
and enable a single party or body of men acting as the board
of directors of the said Northern Securities Company, or such
executive committee as they may designate, to fix all rates and

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

charges for the transportation of passengers and freight over
any and all the lines of railway of each of said companies
within the State of Minnesota; to determine what trains shall
be operated over each or any of the lines of railway of each
of said railway companies, and to remove all competition in
freight or passenger traffic over said parallel and competing
lines, and prevent the building of lines into new territory as
well as into the territory now reached by only one of said
lines of railway; that the purpose of said agreement and of
the parties thereto was the creation of a trust or the formation
of a combination by which a monopoly of railway traffic in
northern Minnesota and elsewhere will be perfected; that the
defendant company was organized for, and is to be used as a
medium through and by which this unlawful agreement, purpose and object can, and, if not enjoined, will be accomplished;
that this agreement and the consummation thereof is in restraint
of trade, tends to create a monopoly in railway traffic and is
against public policy, and void.
That holders of a large majority of the capital stock of both
said Great Northern and Northern Pacific Railway Companies
had knowledge of, consented to, and assisted in carrying out the
agreement, arrangement and scheme herein set forth by which
a large majority of the capital stock of each of said railway
companies was to be exchanged for the capital stock of said
Northern Securities Company upon the basis and for the purposes herein set forth ; and the said stockholders of said Great
Northern and Northern Pacifif Railway Companies so consenting to, taking part and assisting in the formation of said Northern Securities Company, and the perfecting of the agreement
and scheme herein set forth, constitute all of the stockholders
of said Northern Securities Company; and the board of directors and executive officers of said Northern Securities Company hereinafter named have been selected from and elected by
such stockholders of said Great Northern and Northern Pacific
Railway Companies.
That under the articles of association of said Northern Securities Company, its corporate powers and entire business
management is vested in a board of directors consisting of

MINNESOTA v. NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.

229

Statement of the Case.

such number as shall be fixed from time to time, by the bylaws of said corporation, and the board of directors itself is
authorized to make such by-laws as it deems best, and from
time to time to alter, amend or repeal any by-laws. That the
board of- directors of said company thereby has power to determine its own number, and to adopt rules and regulations for
its own conduct and the conduct of the affairs of said corporation. The articles of association further provide that said board
of directors may appoint an executive committee in the manner
provided by the by-laws of the company, which committee shall
exercise all the powers and duties of said board of directors.
That on or about the 14th day of November, A. D. 1901, the
following named persons were elected as and now constitute
the board of directors of said Northern Securities Company,
to wit For the term of one year, James J. 11ll, George F.
Baker, Daniel S. Lamont, James Stillman and N. Terhune; for
the term of two years, Samuel Thorne, Charles E. Perkins,
Jacob H. Schiff and William P. Clough; for the term of three
years, John S. Kennedy, D. Willis James, E. T. Nichols, Robert
Bacon and E. I. Harriman. That on the 15th day of November, A. D. 1901, said board of directors met and elected the following executive officers of said company, to wit: President,
James J. Hill; First Vice President, John S. Kennedy; Second
Vice President, George F. Baker; Third Vice President, D.
Willis James; Fourth Vice President, William P. Clough; Secretary and Treasurer, E. T. Nichols.
Complainant further alleges that said James J. Hill and said
William P. Clough were, on said last named date, the President
and Vice President respectively of said Great Northern Railway
Company; and both were members of the board of directors of
said last named company. That said E. T. Nichols was, on said
date and now is, the Secretary and Assistant Treasurer of said
Great Northern Railway Company. That said James J. Hill and
his associates either own or have in their possession or under their
control, a large majority of the capital stock of said Great
Northern Railway Company. That said James J. Hill, Robert
Bacon, George F. Baker, E. H. Harriman, D. Willis James,
John S. Kennedy, D. S. Lamont and James Stillman were, on

OCTOBER TERM. 1901.
Statement of the Case.

said 14th day of November, 1901, and now are members of the
board of directors of said Northern Pacific Railway Company,
and constitute a majority of the board of directors of said named
company.
That said James J. Hill and his associate directors and officers
of said Northern Securities Company own and control a majority of the capital stock of said last named company; that
during the month of December, 1901, said Northern Securities
Company, through its directors and executive officers, began
dictating the policy and management of said Northern Pacific
as well as said Great Northern Railway Company, and ever
since has been and now is directing and managing the business
and property of both said Great Northern and INorthern Pacific
Railway Companies, and determining and enforcing freight and
passenger rates on many of the lines of railway of said companies
in the State of Minnesota, together with the manner and means
of handling the freight and passenger business of said companies
on such lines of railway, and will continue so to do unless enjoined as herein prayed.
That said Northern Securities Company has no authorized
agent or representative within the State of Minnesota on whom
a summons or other process in any legal proceeding may be
served.
That the massing and concentration of said railway properties and the control and management thereof in the defendant
company in the manner hereinbefore outlined, tends to and does
create a monopoly in railway traffic in the State of Minnesota,
and tends to and does deprive the State of Minnesota and the
citizens thereof of the privilege of competition in fixing charges
and rates of transportation for a large amount of freight transported annually over the lines of railway of each of said railway companies, between stations upon the lines of railway of
both said companies within the State of Minnesota.
That it has ever been a part of the settled and public policy
of the State of Minnesota to prohibit therein, in any way, the
consolidation in any manner of competing and parallel lines of
railway; and to this end the legislature of the State of Minnesota did, in the year 1874, pass the following enactment, which

MINNESOTA v. NORTHERN SECUR'rIES CO.

231

Statement of the Case.

ever since has renained and now is a part of the statute law of
the State of Minnesota, known as chapter 29 of the General
Laws of 1871, to wit:
"SEo. 1. No railroad corporation, or the lessees, purchaser
or managers of any railroad corporation, shall consolidate the
stock, property or franchise of such corporation with, or lease
or purchase the works or franchise of, or in any way control
any other railroad corporation owning or having under its control a parallel or competing line; nor shall any officer of such
railroad corporation act as an officer of any other railroad corporation owning or having the control of a parallel or competing line, and the question whether railroads are parallel or competing lines shall, when demanded by the party complainant,
be decided by a jury as in other civil issues.
"SEc. 2. This act shall take effect and be in force from and
after its passage. Approved March 9, 1814."
That in the year 1881 the legislature of the State of Minnesota
passed the following enactment, which ever since has remained
and now is a part of the statute law of the said State and known
as chapter 94 of the General Laws of 1881, to wit:
"SEc. 3. No railroad corporation shall consolidate with, lease
or purchase, or in any way become the owner of or control any
other railroad corporation or stock, franchises, rights or property thereof, which owns or controls a parallel or competing
liue.
"SEc. 4. This act shall take effect and be in force from and
after its passage. Approved March 3, 1881.,
That said Northern Securities Company is a railroad corporation within the meaning of the laws of the State of Minnesota;
and the purpose, object and design of the said organizers and
promoters of said Northern Securities Company, both in the
organization thereof and in the making and carrying out of
the said plans, agreement and designs hereinbefore referred to,
was and is to violate the said legislative enactments of the State
of Minnesota, and to evade and escape the provisions thereof ;
and it is the purpose, intent and design of said corporation, its
stockholders, directors, executive committee, officers, agents
and representatives, to violate the said legislative enactments,

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

and to evade and escape the terms and provisions thereof, and
to effect a consolidation of said railway corporations and properties as herein alleged. That each and all the said acts are
violations and evasions of the said laws and the settled public
policy of the State of Minnesota, and unless said parties are enjoined will cause the State of Minnesota irreparable injury.
That for many years last past it has been a part of the settled
policy of the State of New Jersey to permit the consolidation
of only such lines of railroad as are or can be connected so as
to form continuous lines of railroad, and not to permit the consolidation of parallel or competing lines; and to that end, in
the year 1885, the legislature of the State of New Jersey enacted a law which permits the consolidation of such lines as
shall or may form connecting or continuous lines of railroads.
Your oratrix is informed and believes, and upon information
and belief alleges, that defendant is not the owner of any property or stock or securities of any corporation, except as above
set forth, and is not engaged in any business whatever except
such as is incidental to the ownership of such stock and the
general management and control of said Great Northern and
Northern Pacific Railway Companies and the railway lines and
properties thereof.
Your oratrix further alleges that if the defendant is permitted to control and manage the affairs of said Great Northern and Northern Pacific Railway Companies, in a manner
hereinbefore alleged or otherwise, all competition between them
will forever cease, and a monopoly in railway traffic in Minnesota be created, to the great and permanent and irreparable
damage and injury to the State of Minnesota and to the people
thereof, and in violation of its laws.
That your oratrix has and can have no other adequate remedy
or relief by action at law except as herein prayed for in equity.
To the end, therefore, that the defendant, the Northern Securities Company may, if it can, show cause why your oratrix
should not have the relief herein prayed for, and that it may
be compelled to answer all and singular the premises, and all
matters and things herein stated, as fully and particularly as if
they were here again repeated, and said company thereunto in-

MINNESOTA v. NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.

233

Statement of the Case.

terrogated, and that the defendant may be required to answer
without oath, its answer under oath being hereby expressly
waived.; and that the defendants may, by the decree of this
court, be perpetually enjoined and restrained:
First. From voting at any meeting of the stockholders of
either said Great Northern or Northern Pacific Railway Company any of the capital stock of either of said companies by
any means or in any manner whatsoever, and from attending,
by reason of such ownership, possession or control of stock,
either through its officers or by proxy, or in any other manner,
any meeting of the stockholders of either of said companies.
Second. That the defendant, its stockholders, officers, directors, or the executive committee thereof, its attorneys, representatives, agents or servants, and each of them, be enjoined
and restrained from, in any way, aiding, advising, directing, interfering with or in any way taking part, directly or indirectly,
in any manner whatsoever, in the management, control or
operation of any of the lines of railway of either of said companies, or in the management or control of the affairs of either
of said companies.
Third. That the said defendant, its officers, attorneys, representatives, agents or servants, including its board of directors,
or any of its members as such, be enjoined and restrained from
exercising any of the powers or performing any of the duties,
or in any manner acting as a representative, officer, member of
the board of directors or employ6, of either said Great Northern or Northern Pacific Railway Company, or in any way
exercising any management, direction or control over the same.
Fourth. That said defendant, its stockholders, directors and
other officers, representatives and agents, be enjoined and restrained from doing any and all acts and making any arrangements or combinations by contract or otherwise having for their
object, effect or result the consolidation or establishment of a
joint management or control in any manner whatsoever of the
said Great Northern and Northern Pacific Railway Companies,
their lines of railway or properties.
Fifth. That the said defendant be enjoined from either directly
or indirectly holding, owning or controlling any of the stock of

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

either of said companies at one and the same time for any of
the purposes or objects alleged in said bill, or otherwise.
Sixth. That in case it shall appear upon the hearing that the
defendant owns or controls, or is acting in concert with the
owners of, a majority of the capital stock of either of said railway companies, and owns or controls a minority of the stock
of the other of said companies, then that the defendant, its officers, directors, agents, or representatives, be enjoined and restrained from receiving, acquiring or controlling any additional
capital stock of such other railway company.
Seventh. And your oratrix further prays the leave of this
court to amend this, its bill of complaint, if amendment thereto
shall become necessary, including the right to bring in other
parties defendant for the purpose of giving force and effect to
any decree that may be made by the court herein.
And that complainant be granted such other and further or
different relief as the nature of this case may require, and as
shall be agreeable to equity and good conscience.
ir. TF B. Douglas and M'. X. D. 2unn for complainant.
Mr. George P. Milson was on their brief.
..Mr. William D. Guthrie and Mr. John I. Griggs for defendant. .Mr. John G. Johnson was on their brief.
MR. JUSTCE SHmAs, after making the above statement, de-

livered the opinion of the court.
Whether a bill in equity filed in this court, in the name of a
State, which seeks to prevent by injunction a corporation organized under the laws of another State, with power to acquire
and hold shares of the capital stock of any other corporation,
from obtaining and exercising ownership and control of two or
more competing railroad companies of the complainant State,
so as to evade and defeat its laws and policy forbidding the consolidation of such railroads when parallel and competing, presents the case of a controversy of a civil nature whereof this
court has jurisdiction under the Constitution and laws of the

MINNESOTA v. NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.

235

Opinion of the Court.

United States, and whether the bill in the present case is of
that description, or whether it is the case of a suit brought by
a State to enforce its penal statutes, and hence within the principle of the decision in Tisconsin v. Pelican Insurance Co., 127
U. S. 265, are questions which have been ably discussed by
counsel.
But it is not necessary for us to consider and answer those
questions, for, in view of the nature of the facts presented and
the remedies prayed for in the bill proposed. to be filed, we
think that the suit is defective for want of essential parties
whose rights would be vitally affected by the relief sought
therein.
The general rule in equity is that all persons materially interested, either legally or beneficially, in the subject-matter of
a suit, are to be made parties to it, so that there may be a complete decree, which shall bind them all. By this means the
court is enabled to make a complete decree between the parties,
to prevent future litigation, by taking away the necessity of a
multiplicity of suits, and to make it perfectly certain that no
injustice is done, either to the parties before it, or to others who
are interested in the subject-matter, by a decree which might
otherwise be granted upon a partial view only of the real merits.
When all the parties are before the court, the whole case may
be seen; but it may not, where all the conflicting interests are
not brought out upon the pleadings by the original parties
thereto. Story's Eq. Plds. sec. 72.
The established practice of courts of equity to dismiss the
plaintiff's bill if it appears that to grant the relief prayed for
would injuriously affect persons materially interested in the
subject-matter who are not made parties to the suit, is founded
upon clear reasons, and may be enforced by the court, sua
&ponte,though not raised by the pleadings or suggested by the
counsel. Shields v. Barrow, 17 How. 130; Hfipp v. Babmin, 19
How. 271, 278; Parker v. Winnipiseogee Lake Cottor and
Woolen Co., 2 Black, 545.
In the case of Shields v. Barrow,17 How. 130, the question was
fully discussed, and it was shown, upon a review of the previous
cases, that there are three classes of parties to a bill in equity.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

They are: 1. Formal parties. 2. Persons having an interest in
the controversy, and who ought to be made parties, in order
that the court may act on that rule which requires it to decide
on, and finally determine the entire controversy, and do complete justice, by adjusting all the rights involved in it. These
persons are commonly termed necessary parties; but if their
interests are separable from those of the parties before the
court, so that the court can proceed to a decree, and do complete and final justice, without affecting other persons not before the court, the latter are not indispensable parties. 3. Persons who not only have an interest in the controversy, but an
interest of such a nature that a final decree cannot be made
without either affecting that interest, or leaving the controversy
in such a condition that its final determination may be wholly
inconsistent with equity and good conscience. The court in
respect to the act of Congress of February 28, 1839, 5 Stat. 321,
and to the forty-seventh rule in equity practice, said (p. 140):
"The first section of that statute enacts: That when in any
suit, at law or in equity, commenced in any court of the United
States, there shall be several defendants, any one or more of
whom shall not be inhabitants of or found within, the district
where the suit is brought, or shall not voluntarily appear thereto,
it shall be lawful for the court to entertain jurisdiction, and
proceed to the trial and adjudication of such suit between the
parties who may be properly before it; but the judgment or
decree rendered therein shall not conclude or prejudice other
parties not regularly served with process, or not voluntarily appearing to answer; and the non-joinder of parties, who are not
so inhabitants, or found within the district, shall constitute no
matter of abatement or other objection to said suit.
"This act relates solely to the non-joinder of persons who are
not within the reach of the process of the court. It does not
affect any case where persons, having an interest, are not joined
because their citizenship is such that their joinder would defeat
the jurisdiction; and, so far as it reaches suits in equity, we
understand it to be no more than a legislative affirmance of the
rule previously established by the cases of Qameron v. JXcfloberts, 3 Wheat. 591; Osborn v. Te Bank of the United States,

MINNESOTA v. NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.

237

Opinion of the Court.

9 Wheat. 738, and.Hardingv. Handy, 11 Wheat. 132. For this
court had already there decided that the non-joinder of a party
who could not be served with process would not defeat the jurisdiction. The act says it shall be lawful for the court to entertain jurisdiction; but as is observed by this court, in -Mallow
v. Ilnde, 12 Wheat. 193, 198, when speaking of a case where
an indepensable party was not before the court, 'we do not
put this case upon the ground of jurisdiction, but upon a much
broader ground, which must equally apply to all courts of equity,
whatever may be their structure as to jurisdiction; we put it on
the ground that no court can adjudicate directly upon a person's
right, without the party being either actually or constructively
before the court.' So that, while this act removed any difficulty
as to jurisdiction, between competent parties, regularly served
with process, it does not attempt to displace that principle of
jurisprudence on which the court rested the case last mentioned.
And the forty-seventh rule is only a declaration, for the government of practitioners and courts, of the effect of this act of
Congress, and of the previous decisions of this court, on the
subject of that rule. Hogan v. Wralkr, 14 How. 36.
"It remains true, notwithstanding the act of Congress and
the forty-seventh rule, that a Circuit Court can make no decree
affecting the rights of an absent person, and can make no decree between the parties before it, which so far involves or depends upon the rights of an absent person, that complete and
final justice cannot be done between the parties to the suit without affecting those rights."
Californiav. Southern Pacift Co., 157 U. S. 229, was a case
in several particulars like the present one. There a bill was
filed in this court by the State of California against the Southern Pacific Company, a corporation of the State of Kentucky,
claiming title and jurisdiction by the State over certain large
tracts of land lying upon the shores of the bay of San Francisco and over the harbor waters of said bay, including San
Antonio Creek, and averring that the Southern Pacific Company claimed adversely to the State, and was engaged in placing
structures in and upon said tracts of land, thereby obstructing
navigation in the bay and adjoining waters. The bill prayed

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

for a decree quieting the title of the State and enjoining the
defendant company from maintaining the structures that it had
placed upon said tracts and the adjacent waters. The defendant company answered the bill, denying the ownership of the
complainant in the premises in dispute, and setting forth its
own title derived from the town of Oakland, as to the whole
of the water front of that town, through one Carpentier, as
grantee of said town by ordinance and deed of conveyance, and
claiming that by subsequent mesne conveyances the said title
and property had become vested, as to a part thereof, in the Central Pacific Railroad Company, and, as to another part, in the
South Pacific Coast Railway Company, and in the defendant
company as lessee. It further was claimed that certain ordinances and deeds of the town of Oakland operated as a grant
by the city of Oakland and the State of California of the land
to the Oakland Water Front Company, as grantee or alienee
of Carpentier. The case was duly put at issue, and a commissioner was appointed to take testimony therein and to return
the same to the court.
When the case came on for hearing it was held by this court
that the city of Oakland and the Oakland Water Front Company were so situated in respect to the litigation that the court
ought not to proceed in their absence. In reaching this conclusion the court reviewed the cases, including the cases above
cited and others.
Upon the contention that the city of Oakland and the Oak]and Water Front Company might be made parties defendant,
and the court thus enabled to proceed with the case, the court
held that this could not be done, because this court could not
exercise original jurisdiction in a suit between a State on the
one hand and a citizen of another State and citizens of the
complainant State on the other. Accordingly, the bill was dismissed for want of parties who should be joined, but could not
be without ousting our jurisdiction.
We shall, therefore, proceed to examine the substance of the
bill proposed to be filed, in order to see whether it discloses a
case in which a decree could be granted which would do final
and complete justice between the nominal parties without

MINNESOTA v. NORTHERN ,SECURITIES CO.

239

Opinion of the Court.

vitally affecting other persons not before the court. As already
stated, a conclusion reached that the suit cannot be entertained
for want of necessary and essential parties, will not imply any
expression of opinion beyond that question.
As the bill is set forth in full in the preceding statement, it
will not be necessary to here repeat its allegations. They may
be summarized as follows:
The complainant is the State of Minnesota; the defendant
is the Northern Securities Company, a corporation of the State
of New Jersey.
It is part of the policy of the State of Minnesota, as declared
in its public statutes, to prohibit therein the consolidation in
any manner of competing and parallel lines of railway. The
statutes specially recited in the bill are the act of March 9,
1874, the first section whereof is in the following terms: "No
railroad corporation, or the lessees, purchaser or managers of
any railroad company, shall consolidate the stock, property or
franchise of such corporation with, or lease or purchase the
works or franchise of, or in any way control any other railroad
corporation owning or having under its control a parallel or
competing line; nor shall any officer of such railroad corporation act as an officer of any other railroad corporation owning
or having the control of a parallel or competing line, and the
question whether railroads are parallel or competing lines shall,
when demanded by the party complainant, be decided by a
jury as in other civil issues;" and the act of March 3, 1881, of
which the third section is as follows: "No railroad company
shall consolidate with, lease, or purchase, or in any way become the owner of or control any other railroad corporation
or stock, franchises, rights or property thereof, which owns or
controls a parallel or competing line."
The Great Northern Railway Company is a corporation organized and existing under an act duly passed by the Territory
of Minnesota and under various subsequent acts of the State of
Minnesota, and owns and controls, as lessee, several important
lines of railroad, some only within and others extending beyond
the State of Minnesota, and which are maintained by the Great
Northern Railway Company as one oomplete system. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

board of directors of the Great Northern Railway Company,
at the time of the organization of the Northern Securities Company, to wit, on or about November 13, 1901, was and now is
composed of the following-named persons, to wit: James J.
Bill, James N. Hill, Samuel iHill, William P. Clough, Edward
Sawyer, Jacob I. Schiff and Henry W. Cannon. That on said
last mentioned date the Great Northern Railway Company had
issued and there was then outstanding a total of one hundred
and twenty-five million dollars, par value, of the capital stock
of said corporation, of which, it is alleged, that said James J.
Hill was on said last mentioned date the owner of or had subject to his direction and disposition, more than a majority of
said capital stock so outstanding.
The Northern Pacific Railway Company was organized under
the laws of the State of Wisconsin of the year 1895, and afterwards, by filing a certified copy of its articles of incorporation,
became a corporation of the State of Minnesota and subject to
the laws of that State relating to railroad corporations. In the
year 1896 the Northern Pacific Railway Company duly purchased and became the owner of the entire railroad properties
and lines formerly owned by the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company, and at all times since has continuously owned and
operated each and all of said lines of railway situated within
the State of Minnesota, and which connect the cities of St. Paul
and Minneapolis and Duluth, and connect with the lines of railways outside the State of Minnesota. During the year 1899 the
said Northern Pacific Railway Company purchased, and ever
since has owned and operated a line of railway extending from
the cities of St. Paul and Minneapolis to Duluth, Minnesota.
Said last mentioned line parallels and is a competing line of
railway for both freight and passenger traffic with the line of
railway between said Minneapolis and St. Paul and Duluth,
owned by the Eastern Railway Company of Minnesota, but
which is operated, controlled and managed by said Great Northern Railway Company, as a part of the system of that company.
The lines of railway now owned and operated by said Great
Northern Railway Company within the State of Minnesota are
parallel and competing lines for freight and passenger traffic

MINNESOTA v. NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.

241

Opinion of the Court.

with the lines of railway now owned, operated and controlled
by said Northern Pacific Railway Company within the State
of Minnesota; and also said lines of railway owned, operated
and controlled by said Great Northern Railway Company, and
also the lines of railway owned, operated and controlled by said
Northern Pacific Railway Company, which connect with the
lines of railway owned, operated and controlled by each of said
companies respectively within the State of Minnesota, are parallel and competing lines through the States of North Dakota,
Montana, Idaho and Washington to Puget Sound on the Pacific
Coast, for passenger and freight traffic. That said companies
are the only railway companies owning or operating lines of
railway crossing the State of Minnesota and connecting the
Pacific Ocean by rail with points in Minnesota.
That the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railway Company,
a corporation of the State of Illinois, has, for many years last
past, owned, operated and controlled an extensive system of railway lines, connecting the city of Chicago with the city of Denver, in the State of Colorado, and with the city of Billings, in the
State of Montana, which last named point is a junction and competitive point for freight and passenger traffic with said Northern Pacific Railway Company, etc. That during the year 1901
the said Great Northern Railway Company and said Northern
Pacific Railway Company jointly purchased ninety-eight per
cent of the total capital stock of said Chicago, Burlington and
Quincy Railway Company, aggregating approximately one hundred and seven million of dollars, par value, and now own the
same, and issued in payment therefor the joint bonds of said
Great Northern and Northern Pacific Railway Companies, payable in twenty years from the date thereof, and bearing interest
at the rate of four per cent per annum, payable semi-annually.
That the said Great Northern and Northern Pacific Railway
Companies issued and delivered in exchange for each one hundred dollars in amount of said Chicago, Burlington and Quincy
Railway Company stock two hundred dollars in amount of the
said bonds; and that under and by virtue of the purchase of
the said stock the joint ownership and control of the said Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railway Company are vested in,
VOL. eLxxxv-l6

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

and ever since have been exercised by, the said Great Northern
and Northern Pacific Railway Companies. During April, 1901,
and ever since, the following named persons constituted and
now are the members of the board of directors of the Northern
Pacific Railway Company: James J. Hill, Robert Bacon, George
F. Baker, E. H. Harriman, H. McK. Twombly, Brayton Ives,
D. Willis James, John S. Kennedy, Daniel S. Lamont, Charles
S. Mellen, Samuel Rea, William Rockefeller, Charles Steele,
James Stillman and Eben B. Thomas. On November 13, 1901,
J. Pierpont Morgan, with certain other unknown persons, but
who were acting with said Morgan, owned and had in their
possession, or held and had subject to their control and disposition, upwards of eighty-five per cent of the total capital stock
of said Northern Pacific Railway Company. The Northern
Securities Company was organized on November 13, 1901, with
its principal office at Hoboken, in the State of New Jersey, and
the objects for which the corporation was formed, as stated in
the articles of incorporation, are to acquire and hold, as investments, the bonds, securities and capital stock of any other corporation or corporations of the State of New Jersey, or of any
other State, Territory or country, and while owner of said stock
to exercise all the rights, powers and privileges of ownership,
including the right to vote thereon; and it is declared that the
corporation shall have power to conduct its business in other
States and in foreign countries, to have one or more offices out
of the State, and to purchase, hold and convey real and personal property out of the State.
It is alleged that the Northern Securities Company was incorporated at the instigation and request of James J. Hills William P. Clough, and certain unknown stockholders of said
Great Northern Railway Company, who, with said Hill and
Clough, owned or controlled, or have the disposition and management of, a large majority of the capital stock of said Great
Northern Railway Company, and with the coperation of.J.
Pierpont Morgan and certain other unknown stockholders of
said Northern Pacific Railway Company, who, with said Morgan, owned and controlled, or have the disposition and man-

3NNESOTA v. NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.

243

Opinion of the Court.

agement, of, a large majority of the capital stock of said Northern Pacific Railway Company.
On November 14, 1901, James J. Hill, George F. Baker,
Daniel S. Lamont, James Stillman, N. Terhune, Samuel Thorne,
Charles L. Perkins, Jacob H. Sohiff, William P. Clough, John
S. Kennedy, Willis James, E. T. Nichols, Robert Bacon and
E. H. Harriman were elected directors of the Northern Securities Company, and said directors on November 15, 1901, elected
James J. Hill to be president, and John S. Kennedy, George F.
Baker, Willis James and William P. Clough to be vice presidents, and E. T. Nichols, to be secretary and treasurer, of said
company. It is alleged that the holders of a large majority of
the capital stock of both said Great Northern and Northern Pacific Railway Companies had knowledge of and assisted in the
formation of the said Northern Securities Company, and that
such stockholders, so consenting and assisting, constitute all of
the stockholders of said Northern Securities Company.
The bill charges that the purpose of the formation of the
Northern Securities Company was to place the management
and control of the Great Northern Railway Company and of
the Northern Pacific Railway Company under one management, and to thus, in effect, establish a consolidation of said
railway companies, and defeat and evade the statutes and policy
of the State of Minnesota forbidding consolidation of parallel
and competing lines of railway.
The relief prayed by the bill is that the defendant company
be perpetually enjoined and restrained from voting, at any meeting of either said Great Northern and Northern Pacific Railway Company, any of the capital stock of either of said companies by any means or in any manner whatsoever, and from
attending, by reason of such ownership, possession or control of
stock, either through its officers or by proxy, or in any other
manner, any meeting of the stockholders of either of said companies, and from, in any way, aiding, advising, directing, interfering with or in any way taking part, directly or indirectly,
in any manner whatsoever, in the management, control, or
operation of any of the lines of railway of either of said companies; and that said defendant, its officers, attorneys, repre-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

sentatives, agents, or servants, including its board of directors,
or any of its members as such, be enjoined and restrained from
exercising any of the powers or performing any of the duties,
or in any manner acting as a representative, officer, member of
the board of directors or employS, of either said Great Northern or Northern Pacific Railway Company, or in any way exercising any management, direction or control over the same;
and that said defendant, its stockholders, directors and other
officers, representatives and agents, be enjoined and restrained
from doing any and all acts and making any arrangements or
combinations, by contract or otherwise, having for their object,
effect or result the consolidation or establishment of a joint management or control in any manner whatsoever of the said Great
Northern and Northern Pacific Railway Companies, their lines
of railway or properties; and that said defendant be enjoined
from either directly or indirectly holding, owning or controlling any of the stock of either of said companies at one and the
same time for any of the purposes or objects alleged in the bill,
or otherwise, and that in case it shall appear upon the hearing
that the defendant owns or controls, or is acting in concert with
the owners of, a majority of the capital stock of either of said
railway companies, and owns or controls a minority of the stock
of the other of said companies, then that the defendant, its officers, directors, agents or representatives, be enjoined and restrained from receiving, acquiring or controlling any additional
capital stock of such other railway company; and further for
leave to amend the bill of complaint, if amendment thereto
shall become necessary, including the right to bring in other
parties defendant for the purpose of giving force and effect to
any decree that may be made by the court herein.
Afore briefly stated, the case presented by the charges and
prayers of the bill is that the State of Minnesota is apprehensive that a majority of the stockholders respectively of the
Great Northern Railway Company and of the Northern Pacific Railway Company have combined and made an arrangement, through the organization of a corporation of the State
of New Jersey, whereby such a consolidation, or what is alleged to amount to the same thing, a joint control and man-

MINNESOTA v. NORTHERN SECURITIES CO.

245

Opinion of the Court.

agement of the Great'Northern and Northern Pacific Railway
Companies, shall be effected as will operate to defeat and overrule the policy of the State in prohibiting the consolidation of
parallel and competing lines of railway, and therefore appeals
to a court of equity to prevent by injunction the operation and
effect of such a combination and arrangement.
But at once, as we have seen, the court is put upon inquiry
whether the parties and persons to be affected by such an injunction are before it.
The narrative of the bill unquestionably discloses that the
parties to be affected by a decision of the controversy are, directly, the State of Minnesota, the Great Northern Railway
Company, the Northern Pacific Railway Company, corporations of that State, and the Northern Securities Company, a
corporation of the State of New Jersey, and, indirectly, the
stockholders and bondholders of those corporations, and of the
numerous railway companies whose lines are alleged to be owned,
managed or controlled by the Great Northern and Northern
Pacific Railway Companies.
Can such a controversy be determined with due regard to the
interests of all concerned, by a suit solely between the State of
Minnesota and the Northern Securities Company? It is, indeed, alleged that all of the stockholders of the Northern Securities Company are stockholders in the two railroad companies,
and, therefore, it may be said that the latter stockholders are
sufficiently represented in the litigation by the Northern Securities Company; but it is not alleged that the stockholders of the
Northern Securities Company constitute or are composed of
all the stockholders of the two railroad companies, and, in fact,
the contrary is conceded in the allegations of the bill that a
majority only of the stock of one, or perhaps both, of the two
railroad companies is owned, or at least controlled and managed, by the Northern Securities Company. It is obvious,
therefbre, that the rights of the minority stockholders of the
two railroad companies are not represented by the Northern
Securities Company. They have a right to be represented, in
the controversy, by the companies whose stock they hold, and
their rights ought not to be affected without a hearing, even if

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

it were conceded that a majority of the stock in such companies, held by a few persons, had assisted in forming some
sort of an illegal arrangement. Moreover, it must not be overlooked that it is not the private interests of stockholders that
are to be alone considered. The directors of the Great Northern and Northern. Pacific Railway Companies are appointed to
represent and protect not merely the private and pecuniary
interests of the stockholders, but the rights of the public at
large, which is deeply concerned in the proper and advantageous management of these public highways. It is not sufficient
to say that the Attorney General, or the Governor, or even the
Legislature of the State, can be conclusively deemed to represent
the public interests in such a controversy as that presented by
the bill. Even a State, when it voluntarily becomes a complainant in a court of equity, cannot claim to represent both
sides of the controversy. Not only have the stockholders, be
they few or many, a right to be heard, through the officers and
directors whom they have legally selected to represent them,
but the general interests of the public, which might be deeply
affected by the decree of the court, are entitled to be heard;
and that, when the State is the complainant, and in a case like
the present, can only be effected by the presence of the railroad companies as parties defendant.
Upon investigation it might turn out that the allegations of
the bill are well founded, and that the State is entitled to relief; or it might turn out that there is no intention or design
on the part of the railroad companies to form any combination in disregard of the policy of the State, but that what is
proposed is consistent with that policy and advantageous to the
communities affected. But, in making such investigation, a
court of equity must insist that both sides of the controversy
shall be adequately represented and fully heard.
When it appears to a court of equity that a case, otherwise
presenting ground for its action, cannot be dealt with because
of the absence of essential parties, it is usual for the court,
while sustaining the objection, to grant leave to the complainant to amend by bringing in such parties. But when it likewise appears that necessary and indispensable parties are be-

UNITED STATES v. ST. LOUIS &c. TRANS. CO.

24T

Statement of the Case.

yond the reach of the jurisdiction of the court, or that, when
made parties, the jurisdiction of the court will thereby be defeated, for the court to grant leave to amend would be useless.
Sec. 2 of Article 3 of the Constitution of the United States.
As then, the Great Northern and the Northern Pacific Railway Companies are indispensable parties, without whose presence the court, acting as a court of equity, cannot proceed, and
as our constitutional jurisdiction would not extend to the case
if those companies were made parties defendant, the motion
for leave to file the proposed bill must be and is
Denied.

UNITED STATES v. ST. LOUIS & MISSISSIPPI VALLEY TRAINSPORTATION COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF OLAIMS.
Wo. 89. Argued January 10, 13,1902.-Decided February 24,1902.

After the findings of fact, conclusions of law, and judgment in this case
were filed, two successive motions for a new trial were made on behalf of
defendant; whereupon the former findings were withdrawn, and new
and amended findings and opinion filed. Held, that as these amendments were made at defendant's request, the existing conclusions of law
and judgment were not thereby disturbed.
The evidence adduced shows that the facts found were sufficient to warrant the court below in holding that the collision in the Mississippi River

at New Orleans, whereby the Transportation Company lost a vessel, was
the result of the negligence of the officers in command of the United
States vessels.
There was also culpable negligence in the United States officers in anchoring in an unusual and improper position.
Upon the findings made the Transportation Company was not chargeable
with contributory negligence.

ON October 11, 1894, the St. Louis and Mississippi Valley

Transportation Company filed in the Court of Claims a suit by
way of petition against the United States, in pursuance of the
provisions of the act of August 3, 1894, alleging that said company was a corporation of the State of Missouri, and the owner

