LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RD. CO. v. EUBANK.

27

Statement of the Case.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY
v. EUBANK.
ERROR TO

THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF SIMPSON
KENTUCKY.

COUNTY,

STATE OF

No. 10. Argued November 8, 11, 1901.-Decided January 27, 1902.
Section 218 of the constitution of the State of Kentucky, reads as follows: "It shall be unlawful for any person or corporation, owning or
operating a railroad in this State, or any common carrier, to charge or
receive any greater compensation in the aggregate for the transportation
of passengers, or of property of like kind, under substantially similar
circumstances and conditions, for a shorter than for a longer distance
over the same line, in the same direction, the shorter being included
within the longer distance; but this shall not be construed as authorizing any common carrier, or person or corporation, owning or operating
a railroad in this State, to receive as great compensation for a shorter as
for a longer distance: Provided, That upon application to the Railroad
Commission, such common carrier, or person, or corporation owning or
operating a railroad in this State, may in special cases, after investigation by the Commission, be authorized to charge less for longer than for
shorter distances for the transportation of passengers or property; and
the Commission may, from time to time, prescribe the extent to which
such common carrier, or person, or corporation owning or operating a
railroad in this State, may be relieved fromthe operation of this section,"
As construed by the courts of that State, and so far as it is made applicable to or affects interstate commerce, it is invalid.

THE railroad company has brought this case here by a writ of
error to the circuit court of Simpson County, State of Kentucky, that being the highest court of the State in which a decision could be had, for the purpose of reviewing the judgment
of that court in favor of the defendant in error (plaintiff below)
based upon a violation of section 218 of the constitution of Kentucky. That section reads as follows:
"It shall be unlawful for any person or corporation, owning
or operating a railroad in this State, or any common carrier, to
charge or receive any greater compensation in the aggregate for
the transportation of passengers, Qr of property of like kind,

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

under substantially similar circumstances and conditions, for a
shorter than for a longer distance over the same line, in the same
direction, the shorter being included within the longer distance;
but this shall not be construed as authorizing any common carrier, or person or corporation, owning or operating a railroad
in this State, to receive as great compensation for a shorter as
for a longer distance: Provided, That upon application to the
railroad commission, such common carrier, or person, or corporation owning or operating a railroad in this State, may in special cases, after investigation by the commission, be authorized
to charge less for longer than for shorter distances for the transportation of passengers or property; and the commission may,
from time to time, prescribe the extent to which such common
carrier, or person, or corporation owning or operating a railroad
in this State, may be relieved from the operations of this section."
This action involves the question of the validity of the above
section, as construed by the court below with reference to interstate commerce.
The plaintiff, T. R. Eubank, on June 9, 1899, duly filed in the
clerk's office of the Simpson County circuit court a petition in
which he alleged, in substance, that he was doing business in
Franklin, in the State of Kentucky; that the defendant was a
corporation chartered under the laws of that State as a common
carrier, and that it owned and operated a line of railway for the
transportation of freight and passengers from Nashville, Tennessee, running north through Franklin, Kentucky, and continuing
on to Louisville, Kentucky, a distance of 185 miles, and that the
distance from Franklin, Kentucky, to Louisville, Kentucky, over
the defendant's line is 134 miles, and is included in and a part
of the distance of 185 miles from Nashville to Louisville; that
during the years 1897 and 1898 the defendant transported tobacco for the complainant from Franklin, Kentucky, to Louisville, Kentucky, at the rate of 25 cents per one hundred pounds,
and that during all this time the plaintiff was shipping and did
ship and transport tobacco from Nashville, Tennessee, to Louisville, Kentucky, over the same road at the sum of 12 cents for
one hundred pounds, and the complainant averred in his peti-

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RD. CO. v. EUBANK.

29

Statement of the Case.

tion that the company had no right to charge him a greater
freight rate for the transportation of tobacco from Franklin,
Kentucky, to Louisville, Kentucky, than 12 cents per one hundred pounds, and he therefore brought suit to recover back from
the defendant the difference between that sum and the sum
paid by him, viz., 13 cents per one hundred pounds, the amount
carried being 145,245 pounds.
The defendant tendered special and general demurrers to this
a
petition on the ground, among others, that it sought to make
by
charged
rate
a
to
law of the State of Kentucky applicable
defendant from Nashville, Tennessee, to Louisville, Kentucky,
and that if the law were so construed it would become a regulation of interstate commerce and be invalid, because in conflict
with and repugnant to subsection 3 of section 8 of article I of
the Constitution of the United States, and also in violation of
the interstate commerce act.
These demurrers were overruled by the court, and thereupon
the defendant tendered its answer, setting up its defences in
four separate paragraphs.
By paragraph 1 it substantially admitted the transportation
of the tobacco at the rates stated in the plaintiff's petition. In
the second paragraph it averred that its rate of 12 cents per
one hundred pounds for the transportation of tobacco, from
Nashville, Tennessee, to Louisville, Kentucky, was made under
and in conformity with the act of Congress called the interstate
commerce act, above referred to, and that in pursuance of the
sixth section of that act the rate was printed, posted and kept
open to public inspection and duly filed with the Interstate
Commerce Commission, and that by virtue of that act it would
have been unlawful for the defendant to have charged either
more or less than the rate of 12 cents per one hundred pounds
from Nashville, Tennessee, to Louisville, Kentucky. The defendant further averred that section 218 of the constitution
of the State of Kentucky applied only to a railroad in that
State, and had no application to that portion of any railroad
that was without the State of Kentucky, and hence had no application to the railroad of the defendant between Nashville,
Tennessee, and the state line between Tennessee and Ken-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

tucky; and it was averred that the rates which the defendant
might charge from Franklin, Kentucky, to Louisville, Kentucky, were not and could not become unlawful under the long
and short haul laws of Kentucky by reason of any rates that
might be charged by the defendant on traffic transported from
Nashville, Tennessee, to Louisville, Kentucky, and that the
long and short haul laws of Kentucky could apply only when
both the long and short hauls were within Kentucky, and that
the hauls from Nashville, Tennessee, to Louisville, Kentucky,
were not within the jurisdiction of Kentucky.
Defendant further averred that at the times named in the
petition it charged no rate on tobacco to Louisville, Kentucky,
from any point in the State of Kentucky on the same line with
Franklin and farther from Louisville, than Franklin, less than
the rate of 25 cents per one hundred pounds charged by it from
Franklin to Louisville. It was further averred that if the constitutional provision in question were so construed as to make
this rate of 25 cents per one hundred pounds from Franklin,
Kentucky, to Louisville, Kentucky, unlawful by reason of the
less rate charged by it from Nashville, Tennessee, to Louisville,
Kentucky, the result would be to regulate commerce among the
States by the long and short haul laws of Kentucky and
to
compel the defendant to and it would raise its rates of 12 cents
per one hundred pounds from Nashville, Tennessee, to Louisville, Kentucky, unless it could obtain the authority from the
railroad commission of Kentucky to charge the less rate from
Nashville, Tennessee, to Louisville, Kentucky; that thereby the
long and short haul laws of Kentucky would regulate commerce
among the States and would be in conflict with and repugnant
to the interstate commerce act, and also subsection 3 of section
8, article I, Constitution of the United States, and would therefore be void; and there was contained in the paragraph the
following averment, that "the defendant hereby sets up, pleads
and relies on the right and privilege secured to it by the said
act of Congress and by said provisions of the Constitution
of
the United States to have its interstate traffic and the commerce conducted among the States and between Kentucky and
Tennessee regulated by the Constitution and the laws of the

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RD. CO. v. EUBANK.

31

Statement of the Case.

United States and to be free from the regulation and interference of the constitution and laws of the State of Kentucky."
By paragraph 3 the defendant set up the statute of limitations of the State of Kentucky.
By paragraph 4, the defendant averred that its rate on tobacco from Franklin to Louisville during the times mentioned
was much less than the defendant's standard tariff rates for
that distance, and that the less rate resulted from and was
necessitated by the fact of competition existing at Franklin,
Kentucky, which arose from the fact that tobacco could be and
was hauled by wagon from Franklin, Kentucky, to Bowling
Green, Kentucky, and then shipped to Louisville on boats plying the Green and Barren and Ohio Rivers at extremely low
rates of transportation, and on account of competition the defendant had to and did accept the rate of 25 cents per one
hundred pounds; that, but for that competition, it would and
could have charged a much higher rate, which higher rate
would have been just and reasonable, and that the rate of 25
cents per one hundred pounds was just and reasonable in itself
by reason of the competition.
It was further averred that Nashville, Tennessee, was situated
on the Cumberland River, navigable by boats plying between
Nashville and various points on the Ohio River, including Louisville, Kentucky, and that these boats transported tobacco from
Nashville to Louisville at extremely low rates of transportation,
and that by reason of this water competition Nashville enjoyed
extremely low rates for the shipment of tobacco to Louisville
and many other places, and if the defendant, at any of the
times mentioned, had charged more for the transportation of
tobacco from Nashville, Tennessee, to Louisville, Kentucky,
than 12 cents per one hundred pounds, it would not have secured
the transportation of any of said tobacco from Nashville to
Louisville, but the same would have been shipped from Nashvile to Louisville, or some other tobacco market, at rates less
than 12 cents per one hundred pounds, and thereby the defendant would have wholly lost the transportation of any tobacco
from Nashville to Louisville, and that the defendant succeeded
in obtaining, even at the low rate of 12 cents per one hundred

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

pounds, the transportation of only 12 hogsheads of tobacco
from Nashville to Louisville during the time named in the petition. It was averred that the tobacco transported by the defendant from Nashville to Louisville was transported under the
circumstances and conditions thus stated, and that none of the
same could have been transported at any higher rate than 12
cents per one hundred pounds, and that at none of the times
mentioned in the petition was the transportation of tobacco
from Franklin to Louisville affected by the circumstances or
conditions set forth regarding the transportation of tobacco
from Nashville to Louisville, and that the competition at Nashville differed substantially from the competition at Franklin, in
that it was far more effective and necessitated a much lower
rate, and that in making the difference in rates between Franklin and Nashville the defendant simply recognized the substantial difference in the circumstances and conditions of the transportation from and to the two places.
It was also averred that it was to the advantage of the defendant to transport the tobacco that it might secure from
Nashville to Louisville at the rate of 12 cents per one hundred
pounds rather than lose such transportation altogether, as it
would have done if it had attempted to charge more than the
rate of 12 cents per one hundred pounds, but the fact that the
defendant did transport tobacco from Nashville to Louisville at
12 cents per one hundred pounds did not increase the rate that
it charged from Franklin to Louisville or make the rate from
Franklin to Louisville any higher than it would otherwise have
been, and that if it had refused to transport tobacco from Nashville to Louisville for any less rate than the rate charged from
Franklin to Louisville, the Nashville shippers of tobacco could
and would have shipped it to Louisville or other tobacco markets over routes which this defendant could not control and at
rates not exceeding 12 cents per one hundred pounds, and that
the defendant could and did engage in the transportation of tobacco from Nashville to Louisville at the rate of 12 cents per
one hundred pounds without in anywise injuring Franklin or
any person or interest at Franklin.
Other defences were set up not now material.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RD. CO. v. EUBANK. -33
Opinion of the Court

The plaintiff demurred to paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of the defendant's answer, which demurrer was sustained by the court.
The plaintiff then moved for judgment for the plaintiff upon
the pleadings, which inotion, under objection by the defendant,
the court granted, and thereupon it was adjudged that the plaintiff recover of the defendant the sum of $188.81 and his costs.
-Mr. Walker D. Hines for plaintiff in error.
Bruce was on his brief.

2r. H. W.

.Ar. H. TV. Rives for defendant in error.
MR. JUsTICE PEoKHAm, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The writ of error in this case does not bring up for review
any judgment of the Court of Appeals of the State of Kentucky,
the highest court of that State. Itappears that the circuit court
of that State is the highest court in which a decision of the
case could be had, presumably on account of the amount of the
judgment. There was no opinion delivered by the judge holding the court in which the case was tried, and as the case did
not go to the highest court of that State, we are without the
benefit of any written opinion of the courts of Kentucky in regard to the question involved. We have already held, in the
case of the Louisville & Haslville Railroad Company v. entucky, 183"U. S. 503, that the section of the Kentucky constitution above set forth, as applied to places, all of which are within
the State, violates no provision of the Federal Constitution.
The effect of the decision by the state court now under review is to hold that the provision of section 218 of the state
constitution -is not confined to a case where the long and short
hauls are both within the State of Kentucky, but that it extends to and embraces a long haul from a place outside of to
one within the State, and a shorter haul between points on the
same line and in the same direction, both of which are within
the State, and the question is whether the provision of that
-VOL.Oi XXV-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

constitution as thus construed is or is not a violation of the commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States.
It would seem that the foundation upon which the validity
of the constitutional provision is based is the theory that it
operates solely upon the rate within the State, making that
rate unlawful if it exceed the rate for the longer distance over
the same line in the same direction, though, as in this case, the
longer distance is from Nashville, Tennessee, to Louisville, Kentucky. The claim must be that the only effect of the provision
is to regulate the rate between points within the State and that
it has no direct effect upon nor does it in any degree regulate
or affect the rate between points outside and those points which
are within the State. The contention is that the State does not
prescribe or regulate the rates outside of its borders; that the
company may announce and enforce any rate it pleases regarding interstate commerce. It simply directs that between points
within the State of Kentucky the charge shall not be greater
for a shorter haul than for a longer haul, even though such longer
haul may be between a point outside and one inside of the State;
that this does not constitute an interference with or a regulation
by the State of interstate commerce, and hence the provision
is valid.
If this contention were correct, and the constitutional provision, as construed by the state court, did not by its enforcement regulate, or immediately and directly influence and affect
the interstate commerce of defendant, either as to amount or
rates, the provision in question would be valid. But is it correct? And is there no such immediate influence upon or regulation of the interstate commerce of the defendant?
By the demurrer and the motion for judgment on the pleadings it is admitted that the rates from all points on the defendant's road within the State of Kentucky to Louisville for the
transportation of tobacco are not too high, but are in fact just
and reasonable in themselves, and to that extent the general
obligation of a carrier to make charges that are just and reasonable is fulfilled. There is also a rate for the transportation of
tobacco from Nashville to Louisville of 12 cents per one hundred pounds, and that rate is arrived at because of the existence

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RD. CO. v. EUBANK.

35

Opinion of the Court.

of water competition between the two points which absolutely
prevents the company from making a greater charge, for if it
did it would get no business; and yet on account of the fact
that trains are to be run in any event and expenses incurred by
reason of the operation of the road, it pays the company to
take the tobacco at the rate named, even though it is below
what would otherwise be a fair and reasonable compensation
for the transportation. It follows, therefore, and the fact is
averred, that although under the circumstances it pays the company to transport the tobacco from Louisville at the rate of 12
cents per one hundred pounds, yet if it were confronted with
the alternative of either giving up such transportation (which
a charge of 25 cents per one hundred pounds would necessarily
result in) or of reducing the charge from Franklin to Louisville
to 12 cents per one hundred pounds for tobacco, it would be
compelled to give up the transportation from Nashville rather
than reduce the charge from Franklin to Louisville. If the
State of Kentucky has the right to base its provision for the
rate of a short haul within its own borders by comparison with
the rate for a longer haul partly within and partly without its
own borders, notwithstanding the direct effect of a limitation
arrived at by such comparison may be the regulation or even
the suppression of the interstate commerce of the carrier, then
this provision is valid; otherwise, it would seem to be the reverse.
That the railroad commission is authorized upon application
to permit the company to charge less for longer than for shorter
distances, is immaterial. If the provision in question, if enforced,
does directly affect interstate commerce, its invalidity is not
cured by the fact that if the railroad commission should choose,
it might permit the interstate charges to remain. In either
case the interference is illegal.
The result of the construction of this provision by the court
below is in effect to prohibit the carrier from making a less
charge for the transportation from Nashville to Louisville than
from Franklin to Louisville, or else to make a charge that will
prevent its doing any business between the States in the carrying of tobacco. The necessary result of the provision under

OCTOBER TERI,

1901.

Opinion of the Court.

the circumstances set up in the answer directly affects interstate
rates, or in other words, directly affects interstate commerce,
for it directly affects commerce between Nashville and Louisville. The fact is not altered by putting the proposition in another form, and saying that the constitutional provision only
prevents the carrier from charging a greater sum for the shorter
distance from Franklin to Louisville, both within the State,
unless the consent of the railroad commission is obtained, be-,
cause in either event the charge from Nashville to Louisville
enters into and forms a part of the real subject matter of the
provision, the greater sum for the shorter distance within the
State being compared with the lesser sum for the longer distance without the State; and the prohibition is absolute unless
the consent of the commission is obtained, from charging any
more for the shorter distance within the State than for the longer
distance partly within and partly without the State. And in
this case, in order to maintain its state rate, it must fix its interstate rate at an amount which prohibits its doing interstate
business.
We fully recognize the rule that the effect of a state constitutional provision or of any state legislation upon interstate
commerce must be direct and not merely incidental and unimportant; but it seems to us that where the necessary result of
enforcing the provision may be to limit or prohibit the transportation of articles from without the State to a point within
it, or from a point within to a point without the State, interstate commerce is thereby affected, and may be thereby to a
certain extent directly regulated, and in that event the effect
of the provision is direct and important and not a mere incident.
Although not exactly in point, yet the case of lMabash, St.
Louis &c. Raolway v. Jllinois, 118 U. S. 557, is somewhat
analogous in principle. In that case chapter 114 of the Revised
Statutes of Illinois, section 126, came under consideration.
That section enacted that if any railroad corporation should
charge for the transportation of freight, etc., upon its railroad,
for any distance within the State, the same or a greater amount
of toll or compensation than is at the same time charged, col-

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RD. CO. v. EUBANK.

37

Opinion of the Court.

'lected or received for the transportation in the same direction
of any passenger, etc., over a greater distance of the same road,
such charges should be deemed p2rimafacie evidence of unjust
discrimination prohibited by the act, and penalties were provided for its violation.
An action was brought to recover for a violation of the provisions of the act, and in the declaration it was alleged that the
company had charged Elder & McKinney for transporting goods
from Peoria in the State of Illinois to New York city at the rate
of 15 cents per one hundred pounds, and on the same day the
company charged Bailey & Swannell for transporting another
carload of the same kind of goods from Gilman in the State of
Illinois to the city of New York at the rate of 25 cents per one
hundred pounds, although the carload transported for Elder &
McKinney from Peoria was carried eighty-six miles further in
the State of Illinois than the other carload of the same weight,
and it was claimed that as the freight was of the same class in
both instances and carried over the same route, except as to the
difference of distance, a discrimination against Bailey & Swannell
was made in the charges against them as compared with those
given to Elder & McKinney, and hence suit was brought. Mr.
Justice Miller delivered the opinion of this court, in which he
expressed some doubt whether the statute of Illinois had been
correctly construed by the court below, yet as that court had
given an interpretation to it which made it apply to commerce
among the States, although the contract was made within the
State of Illinois and a part of its performance was within the
same State, this court was held to be bound as to the construction given to the act by the state court. What that construction was is stated by the court itself. It said:
"We see no reason to depart from the conclusion reached in
this case when it was here before. See People v. 1W. St. L. &
P. Railway Co., 104 Ill. 476. But to avoid misapprehension,
we deem it desirable to state explicitly that we disclaim an y
idea that Illinois has authority to regulate commerce in any
other State. We understand and simply hold that, in the absence of anything showing to the contrary, a single and entire
contract to carry for a gross sum from Gilman, in this State,

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

to the city of New York, implies necessarily that that sum is
charged proportionately for the carriage on every part of that
distance; and that a single and entire contract to carry for a
gross sum from Peoria, in this State, to the city of New York,
implies the same thing; and that, therefore, when it is shown
that there is charged for carriage upon the same line less from
Peoria to New York (the greater distance) than from Gilman
to New York (the less distance), and nothing is shown to the effect that such inequality in charge is all for carriage entirely beyond the limits of this State, aprimafacie case is made out of unjust discrimination under our statute occurring within this State.
We hold that the excess in the charge for the less distance presumably affects every part of the line of carriage between Gilman and the state line proportionately with the balance of the
line. The judgment is affirmed." Wabash, St. Louis & Pacifc Railway v. Rllinois, 105 Ill. 236.
In regard to this question, Mr. Justice Miller, in the course
of his opinion, said:
"It becomes, therefore, necessary to inquire whether the
charge exacted from the shippers in this case was a charge for
interstate transportation, or was susceptible of a division which
would allow so much of it to attach to commerce strictly within
the State, and so much more to commerce in other States. The
transportation, which is the subject-matter of the contract, being
the point on which the decision of the case must rest, was it a
transportation limited to the State of Illinois, or was it a transportation covering all the lines between Gilman in the one case
and Peoria in the other in the State of Illinois, and the city of
New York in the State of New York?"
The court held it was the latter, and said, after examining
the other cases (page 575):
"We must, therefore, hold that it is not, and never has been,
the deliberate opinion of a majority of this court that a statute
of a State which attempts to regulate the fares and charges by
railroad companies within its limits, for a transportation which
constitutes a part of commerce among the States, is a valid
law."

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RD. CO. v. EUBANK.

39

Opinion of the Court.

In regard to the effect of the Illinois statute upon interstate
commerce, it was further said:
"Let us see precisely what is the degree of interference with
transportation of property or persons from one State to another
which this statute proposes. A citizen of New York has goods
which he desires to have transported by the railroad companies
from that city to the interior of the State of Illinois. A continuous line of rail over which a car loaded with these goods
can be carried, and is carried habitually, connects the place of
shipment with the place of delivery. He undertakes to make
a contract with a person engaged in the carrying business at
the end of this route from whence the goods are to start, and
he is told by the carrier, I I am free to make a fair and reasonable contract for this carriage to the line of the State of Illinois, but when the car which carries these goods is to cross the
line of that State, pursuing at the same time this continuous
track, I am met by the law of Illinois which forbids me to make
a free contract concerning this transportation within that State,
and subjects me to certain rules by which I am to be governed
as to the charges which the same railroad company in Illinois
may make, or has made, with reference to other persons and
other places of delivery.' So that while that carrier might
be willing to carry these goods from the city of New York to
the .city of Peoria at the rate of fifteen cents per hundred
pounds, he is not permitted to do so because the Illinois railroad
company has already charged at the rate of twenty-five cents
per hundred pounds for carriage to Gilman, in Illinois, which
is eighty-six miles shorter than the distance to Peoria.
"So, also, in the present case, the owner of corn, the principal
product of the country, desiring to transport it from Peoria, in
Illinois, to New York, finds a railroad company willing to do
this at the rate of fifteen cents per hundred pounds for a carload,
but is compelled to pay at the rate of twenty-five cents per hundred pounds, because the railroad company had received from
a person residing at Gilman twenty-five cents per hundred
pounds for the transportation of a carload of the same class of
freight over the same line of road from Gilman to New York.
This is the result of the statute of Illinois, in its endeavor to

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

,prevent unjust discrimination, as construed by the Supreme
Court of that State. The effect of it is, that whatever may be
,the rate of transportation per mile charged by the railroad company from Gilman to Sheldon, a distance of twenty-three miles,
in which the loading and the unloading of the freight is the
.largest expense incurred by the railroad company, the same rate
per mile must be charged from Peoria to the city of New York."
Is not this reasoning applicable here? The Nashville owner
of tobacco wishes to have it transported to Louisville and asks
the defendant to carry it. It responds that it would like to
carry it at the rate of twelve cents per one hundred pounds,
but that it cannot do so because it has established a reasonable
rate between points both of which are in Kentucky, and which
rates are more than twelve cents, and that if it were to carry at
the rate of twelve cents from Nashville to Louisville it would
be necessary, on account of the law of Kentucky, to carry at the
same rate all tobacco between all points in that State, which
would entail a loss in the business between those points, which
the company would not be justified in sustaining; therefore the
transportation is declined, for it cannot get more than twelve
cents from the Nashville man. Is it an answer to this statement to say that the company can get this business by lowering
its rates within the State to the same rate as charged from Nashville? Is it bound, in order to secure this interstate commerce,
to lower its rates all through the State? If it be, is not the law
which accomplishes this result a directinterference by the State
with interstate commerce? And if it do not lower its state
rates and in consequence must raise its interstate rates, in order
to make its state rates valid, and thus must lose to an appreciable and important extent the interstate commerce, is not a
law from which such necessary and direct consequences result
a regulation in effect by the State, of that commerce which
ought to be free therefrom?
In Hall v., De Cuir, 95 U. S. 485, it was said: "But we think
it may safely be said that state legislation which seeks to impose a direct burden upon interstate commerce, or to interfere
directly with its freedom, does encroach upon the exclusive
power of Congress."

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RD. CO. v. EUBANK.

41

Opinion of the Court.

,-The vice of the provision lies in the regulation of the rates
-between points wholly within the State, by the rates which
.obtain between points outside of and those which are within
the-State.
The facts in this case have been thus fully referred to for the
purpose of showing how directly and also how injuriously such
a provision might affect interstate commerce. Other cases may
-be supposed, where the effect might not be so oppressive. But
the fact which vitiates the provision is that it compels the car-rierto regulate, adjust or fix his interstate rates with some reference at least to his rates within the State, thus enabling the
State by constitutional provision or by legislation to directly
affect, and in that way to regulate, to some extent the interstate
commerce of the carrier, which power of regulation the Constitution of the United States gives to the Federal CongTess.
It has been urged that, assuming Congress to have the power
to fix interstate rates, if that body should prescribe the interstate rate for the transportation of commodities -(tobacco, for
instance) from Nashville to Louisville, for a railroad carrier,
that the State might then fix the local rates by that standard,
nd if so, whyr could it not do the same thing when the carrier
itself fixes its interstate rate? In the case supposed, the rate
is fixed and the interstate commerce regulated by the body
which has the power to impose such rate on the carrier and to
regulate its interstate commerce. The State might, in the case
supposed, enact that the road should not charge more, or at a
greater rate, for a short haul within the State than Congress
provided for the long interstate haul. The reason is that Con-gress in the case presented is assumed to have the power to direct and regulate the interstate rate, and having that power
and exercising it the State could then provide that its internal
charge should not exceed that rate, and there would be in that
case no interference with or regulation of interstate commerce
-directly or indirectly by the State, its action could have no possible effect upon the interstate rate, as the amount of the charge
would be regulated by the body with which the right of regalation exists.
It seems also to be thought that there is no regulation of com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

merce, provided it is not interfered with or regulated in all ways
by which transportation of commodities between interstate localities may be accomplished; that if the commodity (tobacco
in this case) can be transported by any other means or route,
or by any other individual or corporation than the one affected
by the regulation, commerce is not regulated within the constitutional meaning. On the contrary, it seems quite clear that
any law which in its direct result regulates the interstate transportation of a single individual carrier, or company of carriers,
violates the provision in question; that it is no answer to say
the commodity can still be transported by another carrier or
by water instead of rail, so long as the direct effect of the state
legislation is to regulate the transportation of the commodity
by a particular means, by rail instead of by water, or by a particular individual or company.
It is also argued that if Congress should enact that an interstate rate shall be the sum of the local rates prescribed by the
several States for the parts in the line within its borders, it could
not correctly be maintained that such enactment would amount
to an interference with the power of the State over local rates,
and the mere fact that Congress accepted the local rates and
made them the basis of an interstate rate could not be held to
be an interference by Congress with local commerce, and if not,
how can it be held an interference by the State when it recognizes existing interstate rates as a basis for its legislation concerning local rates? We think there is no analogy between the
two cases.
In the case supposed, the States have fixed the local rates
within their respective borders, and the action of Congress in
fixing their sum as the rate for interstate commerce does not in
any way regulate or interfere with the respective state rates
already, or from time to time, adopted by the State. In thus
fixing the interstate rate Congress may most seriously interfere
with or regulate interstate commerce, but that it has the right
to do, and on the other hand the State by such a statute regulates the local rate, but that it has the right to do.
Congress does not directly or indirectly interfere with local
rates, by adopting their sum as the interstate rate.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R'D CO. v. EUBANK.

43

JUSTICES BREWER and GRxvY, dissenting.

In the case at bar the State claims only to regulate its local
rates by the standard of the interstate rate, and says the former
shall be no higher than the latter, but the direct effect of that
provision is, as we have seen, to regulate the interstate rate, for
to do any interstate business at the local rate is impossible, and
if so, it must give up its interstate business or else reduce the
local rate in proportion. That very result is a hindrance to, an
interference with, and .a regulation of, commerce between the
States, carried on, though it may be, by only a single company.
We are of opinion that as construed by the state court, and
so far as it is made applicable to or affects interstate commerce,
the two hundred and eighteenth section of the constitution of
Kentucky is invalid, and the judgment of the circuit court of
Simpson County, Kentucky, is therefore
Reversed, and the case remanded to that court for such fJurther proceedings therein as shall not be. inconsistent with
this opinion; and it is so ordered.

M . JUSTIcE, BREWER, with whom concurred MR. JUsTIcE
GRAY, dissenting.
I am unable to concur in the opinion and judgment in this
6
case. We have just held that secti n 218 of the constitution
of Kentucky and section 820 of the Kentucky Statutes; based
thereon, are not in conflict with the Constitution of the United
States when applied to a case in which both the long and the
short haul are wholly within the State. Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company v. Commonwealth of Hentucky, 183
U. S. 503. The constitutional section, briefly stated, forbids a
carrier from charging more for a short than for a long haul
within which the short haul is included. The prohibition is
upon the short haul charge. There is no prohibition in respect
to the long haul charge, no restriction of the power of the
carrier over it, no regulation concerning it, no prescribing by
whom or how or when it shall be made-all this is absolutely
untouched by the section.
The proposition now advanced is that while the State may
constitutionally prohibit a short haul charge in excess of a long

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
JusTIcEs BREWER and GRAY,

dissenting.

haul charge, it can do so only when both hauls are within the
limits of the State. Nothing in the section makes such limitation. Nothing in the Federal Constitution, in terms at least,
restricts the power of the State in this respect over its internal
commerce. This question may arise under either of two conditions: one in which Congress has prescribed the interstate
rate, and the other in which it has left the matter to be fixed
by the carrier.
Considering the first of these conditions, suppose Congress in
the exercise of its power over interstate commerce should enact
that all interstate passengers be charged exactly four cents a
mile, and the railroad company, while obeying that statute in
its charges for carrying passengers from Nashville to Louisville,
should from Franklin to Louisville charge five cents a mile,
could it be pretended that the prohibition of the state constitution against charging more for a short haul than for a long
haul was not operative because an interference with interstate commerce? Has the State no power to compel its corporations to give to parties traveling within its limits the same
rates and privileges that Congress prescribes for interstate
passengers? And can it not do so by simply prohibiting a
greater charge for a long than a short haul? In other words,
is it interfering with interstate commerce when the State, not
prescribing the charges for interstate travel, simply requires
that the passenger shall be charged no higher rates for local
travel
The form in which the state legislation is cast cannot be vital
in determining the question of power. If an act, which in
terms prescribes a rate per mile for local travel the same as
has been prescribed by Congress for interstate travel, is within
the power of the State, (and that it is cannot be doubted,) surely
one accomplishing the same thing by simply forbidding the
carrier to charge more for a short than for a long haul is likewise within its power. The State is merely using the standard
fixed by Congress and enforcing that standard in respect to
local rates.

In AEiller's Evecutors v. Swann, 150 U. S. 132, it

was held that the construction of that part of the state statute
which authorized the disposal of the state's lands in accordance

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RD. CO. v. EUBANK.

46

JUSTICES BR.EwR and GR.Y, dissenting.

with the provisions of the public land laws of the United States
involved no Federal question. The reference to the land laws
of the United States was simply by way of selecting a standard.
But if a State may select as a standard the interstate rates
prescribed by Congress and make its local rates the same, without interfering with interstate commerce, it would certainly
seem that it could in like manner take the interstate rates which
the carrier himself prescribes, and compel conformity of local.
rates thereto and still not be subject to the charge of interfering with interstate commerce. It is strange to be told that the
action of a carrier in fixing interstate rates is potent to render
unconstitutional the legislation of the State respecting local
rates, when the like action of Congress in prescribing interstate
rates is not so potent. In other words, action by the carrier in
pursuit of its own financial interests overturns the constitution
and statute of the State when like action by Congress in the
exercise of its constitutional power does not.
It must be borne in mind that there is here no question of
reasonableness of rates. It is true the carrier avers that the
rate of 25 cents per 100 pounds from Franklin to Louisville was
just and reasonable, but it also avers that it made that charge
only by reason of water competition, whereas "but for that
competition the defendant would and could have charged amuch higher rate, which higher rate would have been just and
reasonable." - According to these allegations, while 25 centswas a just and -reasonable rate, a much higher rate would alsobe just -and reasonable; and it is nowhere alleged that a rate
of 12 cents-that from Nashville to Louisville-would have
been unreasonable as a rate between Franklin and Louisville.
If invalid at all, it is not because it is no higher than the rate
between Nashville and Louisville, but because it is in and ofitself unreasonably low for the services rendered. As the
amount of tobacco which the defendant shipped from Nashville
to Louisville between February 23 and July 15 was only 12
hogsheads,- weighing 20,910 pounds, and paying $25.09 freight,
it is obvious that the loss of this entire amount of freight
would-not have worked a confiscation of the defendant's railroad property, if that be the test of reasonableness so far as

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
JUSTICES BREWER

and GRAY, dissenting.

the power of the legislature over rates is concerned'though,
as to the true test of reasonableness see Cotting v. Hansas City
STock Yards Co., 183 U. S. '79.
The question may be looked at in another light. The railroad company avers that it made its rate of 12 cents from Nashville to Louisville in conformity with the act of Congress;
that the said rate was duly printed, posted and kept open to
public inspection, and that by virtue of the interstate commerce
act it was unlawful for it to charge either more or less than the
rate of 12 cents from Nashville to Louisville. Suppose the legislature of Kentucky, accepting that statement as correct, should
pass an act in terms prohibiting this company from charging
more than 12 cents from Franklin to Louisville, who would
undertake to say that such act was unconstitutional without
evidence that in and of itself the rate of 12 cents was unreasonable within some recognized definition of reasonableness? Does
the act become yrima facie unconstitutional because, instead
of naming 12 cents, the legislature forbids the carrier from
charging more than 12 cents which the carrier has fixed as its
rate from Nashville to Louisville?
Again, Louisville is on the northern border of the State, and
the route of defendant's railroad extends through the State and
thence southward to Nashville. Every place on the line of the
road within the limits of Kentucky makes therefore, a shorter
haul to Louisville than the haul from Nashville, and is included
in the latter. Under the reasoning of this opinion the State
of Kentucky has no power to prescribe a rate from any point
within the State of Kentucky to Louisville which shall be less
than the rate which the company has fixed from Nashville to
Louisville. Nor are we to suppose that competition between
Nashville and Louisville is limited to the matter of the transportation of tobacco. It is a competition between water and
railroad transportation, and naturally extends to all articles of
freight as well as to passengers. By the reasoning of the opinion the State of Kentucky would be powerless to compel the
Louisville and Nashville Company to charge a less than the
competitive Nashville rate, no matter how reasonable, from any

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RD. CO. v. EUBANK.

47

JusmIoss,BnEw n and G.BY, dissenting.

point within its borders to Louisville. It does not -seem to me
that much is left of state control over local rates.
In the opinion of the court it is said:
"The result of the construction of this provision by the court
below is in effect to prohibit the carrier from making a less
charge for the transportation from Nashville to Louisville than
from Franklin to Louisville, or else to make a charge that will
prevent its doing any business between the States in the carrying of tobacco. The necessary result of the provision under
the circumstances set up in the answer directly affects interstate
rates, or, in other words, directly affects interstate commerce,
for it directly affects commerce between Nashville and Louisville: . . . We fully recognize the rule that the effect of a
state constitutional provision, or of any state legislation, upon
interstate commerce must be direct and not merely incidental
and unimportant; but it seems to us that where the necessary
result of enforcing the provision may be to limit or prohibit
the transportation of articles from without that State to a point
within it, or from a point within to a point without the State,
interstate commerce is thereby affected, and may be thereby to
a certain extent directly regulated, and in that event the effect
of the provision is direct and important and not a mere incident."
. The fallacy of this is that it makes transportation by the
Louisville and Nashville Company essential to commerce between Nashville and Louisville. The burden of the complaint
on the part of the company is that there is competition at Nashville for the transportation of tobacco to Louisville, and that it
must make a low charge to get a share of that transportation ;
not that the tobacco will not be transported, not that commerce
will be interfered with, but that this company will lose some
portion of that transportation. In other words, the power of
theState of Kentucky over this corporation, which it has created,
in respect to local rates, is denied in order that the corporation
may obtain some portion of interstate transportation. I think
we may well recall what was said only three weeks since by
this court in the opinion in the case referred to of this same
company against the Commonwealth of Kentucky:

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
JusTIoEs BREWER and GRAY, dissenting.

"It may be that the enforcement of the state regulation -forbidding discrimination in rates in the case of. articles of a like
kind carried for different distances over the same line may somewhat affect commerce generally; but we have frequently held
that such a result is too remote and indirect to be regarded as
an interference with interstate commerce; that the interference
with the commercial power of the general government to be
unlawful must be direct, and not the merely incidental effect
of enforcing the police powers of a State. _. Y Lake Erie
& Wetern Railroadv. Pennsylvania,158 _U. S. 431, 439; Hen-derson Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 166 U. S. 150."
Another matter is worthy of consideration. Suppose that
Congress enacts that an interstate rate shall be the sum of the
local rates prescribed by the several States for the parts of the
through line within their borders. Will it be contended that
this is an interference with the power of the State over local
rates? Does the mere fact Congress accepts the local rates and
makes them the basis of an interstate rate make it an interference by Congress with local commerce? And if that be not so,
how on the other hand can it be held that a mere recognition
by the State of existing interstate rates as a basis for its legislation concerning local rates is an interference with interstate
commerce?
I do not suppose it will be seriously contended that the defendant can invalidate all the local rates which the legislature
of Kentucky may see fit to enforce by simply saying that outside of the State it somewhere touches a competitive point and
is forced to reduce its interstate rates by reason of the competition there existing. In other words, if in the present case
there was in fact no water competition between Nashville and
Louisville, or if there was no tobacco shipped from Nashville
to Louisville, I take it no one would seriously contend that the
railroad company, by affirming that there was, could upset the
provisions of the Kentucky legislation. There would be a question of fact to be determined, even according to the theory that
competition in interstate rates has anything to do with local
rates, and that question of fact might be presented in actions
like the present, actions for overcharges, actions in which the

UNITED STATES u. SOUTHERN. PACIFIC R'D CO. 49
Syllabus.

parties w6uld have the right to trial by jury. Suppdse that
one jury upon the testimony presented before it should find
that there was water competition between Nashville and Louisville, and that there was tobacco shipped between the two places,
and another jury upon the testimony introduced in a succeeding
case exactly the contrary, is the legislation of Kentucky to be
declared unconstitutional in one case and constitutional in the
other?
It seems to me, in conclusion, that a state legislature has full
power over local rates, subject only to the restriction that it
cannot require a carrier to carry without reasonable compensation, and that when it legislates for local rates alone it may fix
those rates by figures, or upon the basis of any standard which
it sees fit to adopt, and the mere fact that it bases them upon
some standard is not legislation regulating that standard-the
local rates are alone the matter regulated. For these reasons
I cannbt concur in the opinion and judgment.
I am authorized to state that M]. JusToE GRAY agrees with
this dissent.

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PAOIFIO RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH OIRCUIT.
No. 25. Argued April 18, 19, 1901.-Decided January 27, 1902.

This case is a continuation of Southern Pacific RailroadCompany v. United
States, 168 U. S. 1, brought to quiet the title of the Government to lands
within the limits of the forfeited grant to the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad
Company. The questions in this case arise between the United States
and parties holding title or claiming rights to lands by deed from or contract with the railroad company. The title of the company having been
adjudged void, the acts of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 556; of February 12,
1896, 29 Stat. 6; of March 2, 1896, 29 Stat. 42, were passed for the pur-

VOL. CLxxxIv--4

