OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

The Court of Private Land Claims having discovered that
by the express prohibition of Congress it was without jurisdiction to decree and confirm the land to the petitioner, the merits
of the case cannot be decided, either by that court, or by this
court on appeal; and the decree below, which undertook to
pass upon the merits, must therefore be reversed, and the case
remanded with directions to dismiss the petition for want of
jurisdiction, without prejudice to the right of the petitioner to
assert his title in any court of competent authority. United
States v. Joselius, 15 How. 36, 38.
Decree reversed accordingly.

EMBLEN v. LINCOLN LAND COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 147. Submitted January 29, 1902.-Decided March 24, 1902.
While a contest over a preemption entry was peuding, Congress passed an
act confirming the entry and directing the patent to issue, which was
done. Held, That the act was within the power of Congress, and that its
operation could not be defeated by a contestant who had never made an
entry on the land, nor perfected the right to do so.

THIS was an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, affirming the decree of the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Nebraska,
dismissing a bill filed therein by George F. Emblen against the
Lincoln Land Company, George F. Weed, and others. The bill
averred that Weed, September 19, 1885, made a cash pre6mption
entry of the southeast quarter of section twenty-two of township two, north of range forty-eight west, at the land office of
the United States in the city of Denver, Colorado; that October 4, 1888, Emblen filed a contest against this entry on the
ground that Weed had not complied with the requirements of

EMBLEN v. LINCOLN LAND CO.
Statement of the Case.

the law in respect of residence on the premises, and that the
entry was fraudulent, and made for speculative purposes; that
Emblen's purpose in making the contest was not only that the
laws of the United States should be complied with by Weed,
but that by defeating Weed's entry he (Emblen) might be enabled to enter the land under the provisions of section 2 of
chapter 89 of the laws of the United States, approved May 14,
1880, 21 Stat. 140, c. 89, which section read as follows:
" SEc. 2. In all cases where any person has contested, paid
the land office fees, and procured the cancellation of any preemption, homestead, or timber culture entry, he shall be notified
by the register of the land office of the district in which such
land is situated of such cancellation, and shall be allowed thirty
days from date of such notice to enter said lands: P'ovided,
That said register shall be entitled to a fee of one dollar for the
givip~g of such notice, to be paid by the contestant, and not to be
reported."
The bill further averred that on a hearing the register and
receiver, on May 21, 1890, recommended the dismissal of the
contest; that Emblen appealed to the Commissioner of the General Land Office and his appeal was sustained; that thereupon
Weed moved for a rehearing, and the officials and inhabitants
of the town of Yuma, which had been located on the premises,
intervened for the protection of their rights; the rehearing was
granted, but before it was had a new land district was created
at Akron, Colorado, which embraced the land in question; and
the rehearing was ordered to take place at Akron on September 16, 1890; that Emblen did not appear, but filed objections
to the jurisdiction, averring that the receiver at Akron was an
interested party. On the rehearing the local officers found in
favor of Weed and dismissed the contest, and thereupon Emblen
appealed to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, and the
Commissioner affirmed the action of the local land office, from
which ruling Emblen further appealed to Mr. Secretary Noble,
then Secretary of the Interior, who, by a decision rendered January 9, 1893, affirmed the action of the local officers and of the
Commissioner.
The bill then averred that Emblen subsequently moved for a

OCTOBER TERM1, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

review of the decision before Mr. Secretary Smith, on the
ground, among other things, of newly discovered evidence, and
that a rehearing of the whole contest was ordered by him to be
had before the local officers, in obedience to which the register
and receiver at Akron set the case for rehearing on January 2,
1894, at which time Weed and other parties interested obtained
a continuance, it being charged that this continuance was obtained for the purpose of procuring the passage of an act of
Congress confirming the title of the original entryman, which
act was in fact passed and approved December 29, 1894, 28
Stat. 599, c. 15, and was in these words: "That the premption
cash entry numbered forty-nine hundred and ninety, of George F.
Weed, made at the district land office at Denver, Colorado, on
the nineteenth of September, eighteen hundred and eighty-five,
for the southeast quarter of section twenty-two, township two
north, of range forty-eight west, which tract embraces the town
of Yuma, Colorado, the county seat of Yuma County, Colorado,
be, and the same is hereby, confirmed; and that patent of the
United States issue therefor to said Weed."
Complainant alleged that while the bill for that act was pending
before both Houses of Congress, full information was furnished
them of the exact status of the contest over the land; that when
the act was passed, the question of the title thereto was pending in the land department, which, under the Constitution and
laws of the United States, is solely charged with the duty of
determining the rights of preemptors and contestants and the
right to issue patent therefor to the parties entitled thereto;
and that Congress had no right or power to adjudicate on the
question of the title to the premises in dispute; and that, moreover, under the provisions of section two of the act of Congress
of May 14, 1880, complainant had a vested right to enter the
land upon the determination of the contest then pending between himself and Weed; and that if complainant had been
permitted to continue the contest to final determination, he
would have succeeded in securing the cancellation of the Weed
entry; and that the passage of the act of Congress above cited,
and the issue of patent thereunder, deprived complainant of a
vested right without due process of law. It was also averred

EMfBLEN v. LINCOLN LAND CO.
Opinion of the Court.

that in January, 1886, the town of Yuma was located on a part
of the premises, and the town and a large number of other parties were made defendants, it being charged that they had full
knowledge of the facts regarding the Weed entry.
The bill prayed that the several defendants be decreed to hold
the title to the property in trust for the use and benefit of complainant, and that it be decreed that the patent issued under
the act of Congress to Weed conveyed no property in the premises against the rights of complainant. The principal defendants
interposed a demurrer to the bill, which was sustained, and the
bill dismissed with costs. 94 Fed. Rep. 710. The case was
then carried to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, and the decree of the Circuit Court affirmed. The opinion
of Judge Shiras in the Circuit Court was adopted as the opinion
of the Circuit Court of Appeals. 102 Fed. Rep. 299. An appeal was then prosecuted to this court.
.Mr. Edward IR. Duffie and -Mr. T. J. Mahoney for appellant.
.rM. J. I. Deweese aAd Mr. FrankE. Bishop for appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTME FULLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

At October term, 1895, appellant filed his petition in this
court for a writ of mandamus to the Secretary of the Interior
to hear and decide the contest between himself and George F.
Weed as to the quarter section of land in Colorado in question.
The petition alleged in substance the same matters set up in the
bill in this case. The writ of mandamus was denied, and Mr.
Justice Gray, speaking for the court, said: "Such being the
state of the case, it is quite clear that (even if the act of Congress was unconstitutional, which we do not intimate) the writ
of mandamus prayed for should not be granted. The determination of the contest between the claimants of conflicting rights
of preemption, as well as the issue of a patent to either, was
within the general jurisdiction and authority of the land department, and cannot be controlled or restrained by mandamus or

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

injunction. After the patent has once been issued, the original
contest is no longer within the jurisdiction of the land department. The patent conveys the legal title to the patentee; and
cannot be revoked or set aside, except upon judicial proceedings
instituted on behalf of the United States. The only remedy of
Emblen is by bill in equity to charge Weed with a trust in his
favor."
I re Emblen, Petitioner, 161 U. S. 52.
The bill before us is such a bill, and the question arises whether
it was within the power of Congress to exercise control over
the land, and direct, as it did, the issue of the patent to Weed;
and that depends on whether Emblen had obtained a vested
right in the land before the passage of the act of December 29,
1894, as otherwise the power of Congress over its disposition
as public land was plenary. ]I.risbie v. Whitney, 9 Wall. 187;
Shepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S. 330; Buxton v. T'aver, 130 U. S.
232; Gonzales v. French, 16d: U. S. 345.
The Weed entry had not been cancelled when the act of 1894
took effect, so that Emblen had no right to make entry under
the act of May 14, 1880. The jurisdiction of the land department ceased with the issue of the patent, and the power of Congress to direct the patent to issue was tinaffected by the possibility that Emblen, if he had been permitted to prosecute his
contest, might have succeeded. As Mr. Justice Miller said in
.'isbie v. Whitney, supra, the rights of a claimant are to be
measured by the acts of Congress, and if they show "that he
acquired no vested interest in the land, then, as his rights are
created by the statutes, they must be governed by their provisions, whether they be hard or lenient."
As Emblen never made an entry on the land, nor perfected a
right to do so, it results that he had no vested right or interest
which could defeat the operation of the act of 1894.
Decree affirmed.

