OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Syllabus.

not been notified to attend the meeting at which the bonds were
funded. It is not to be presumed that notice of the intended
meeting was not given. Under the provisions of the territorial
act, the proceedings of the board of loan commissioners were
legal.
We think the three objections made by the appellants are
untenable, and the judgment of the Supreme Court of Arizona
was right, and must be
Afflrmed.

SKANEATELES WATER WORKS COMPANY v.
SKANEATELES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NVEW YORK.
No 134. Argued January 24, 27,1902.-Decided March 3,1902.

On April 5, 1887, the village of Skaneateles granted a franchise to the waterworks company to maintain and operate within the village a system of
waterworks for furnishing pure and wholesome water to the village and
its inhabitants, under which the company constructed its works, and on
February 1, 1891, contracted to supply water to the village and its inhabitants for the period of five years. At the expiration of the term of this
contract some differences arose about the terms of its continuation, which
resulted in the construction of an independent system of waterworks by
the village authorities. In an action brought by the water company to
restrain the village authorities from proceeding with the construction of
that system or any other system for the village, it is held by the New
York court (1) that the village was not required to institute proceedings
to condemn the property of the plaintiff before commencing the construction of a waterworks system for the use of the village; (2) that the waterworks company under the contract did not acquire the exclusive right to
fnrnish the village with water; (3) that subsequently to the termination
of the contract no contractual relations existed between the water company and the village: Held,
(1) That the power of this court to review the judgment of the New York
Court of Appeals is limited to a consideration of whether any right
of the plaintiff's protected by the Federal Constitution has been
denied;

SKANEATELES WATER CO. v. SKANEATELES.

355

Statement of the Case.
(2) That the water company, in applying to the village and filing its certificate with the Secretary of State under the act of 1873, acquired
no contract right, express or implied, to any exclusive privilege of
using the streets of the village for supplying it with water;
(3) That by virtue of its incorporation it secured simply the right to be
a corporation and the authority to lay its water pipes in any of the
streets and avenues or public streets of the village of Skaneateles;
(4) That when the contract for five years had expired there was nothing
in the state legislation upon which to base an implied contract;
(5) That the decrease in the value of the property of the waterworks
company, caused by the exercise by the village of its right to
build and operate its own plant, furnishes no foundation for the
plaintiff's claim.
Txis is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
:New York, the record having been remitted to that court from
the Court of Appeals after the hearing of an appeal to the latter court and an affirmance by it of the judgment appealed
from. 161 N. Y. 154.
The action was brought by the water company to restrain
the village of Skaneateles and the individual defendants, its
officers, from proceeding further with the construction of a
waterworks system, or from doing any thing in furtherance of
the construction or operation of any system of waterworks for
that village. The plaintiff claimed that the village ordinance
under which the proposed action on the part of the village was
taken was void as impairing the obligation of a contract between plaintiff and the village; also, that its action if continued would result in the taking of plaintiff's property without
due process of law; that the action of the defendant, if permitted, would result in the taking of private property for publie use without compensation; and that such legislation denied
to plaintiff the equal protection of the laws.
The defendants answered denying the contentions of plaintiff, and the case was referred to a referee for trial, who, after
hearing the parties, reported that the defendants were entitled
to judgment, dismissing the complaint upon the merits, with
costs, and judgment was thereupon entered which was affirmed
by the appellate division of the Supreme Court of the State and
upon appeal by the Court of Appeals.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

As matters of fact the referee in his report found that the
plaintiff was a domestic corporation organized under the act of
1873, chapter 737, and the several acts amendatory thereof;
that the village of Skaneateles was a municipal corporation and
the individual defendants were respectively the president, water
commissioners and trustees of the village. On April 5, 1887,
the village granted a franchise to the plaintiff to maintain and
operate within the village of Skaneateles a system of waterworks for furnishing the village and its inhabitants pure and
wholesome water upon the terms and conditions stated in the
franchise. The plaintiff constructed the waterworks under this
franchise and completed it about the year 1889 and put the
same in operation; that the system was a complete and adequate one, no complaint having been made that the water furnished by the plaintiff was not pure and wholesome, or that it
had been inadequate for the purposes for which the system was
erected. ]rior to this time the village of Skaneateles was not
supplied with water by any company or corporation, nor did
it possess any system of its own; that since its incorporation,
and for the purpose of carrying on its works, the plaintiff had
incumbered its property by mortgages to secure the payment
of bonds issued by it, which bonds were outstanding at the
time of the trial. After the erection and completion of the
waterworks and on February 1, 1891, the plaintiff and defendants entered into a contract for the supply of water and the
erection of hydrants and for the payment of certain compensation therefor by the defendants; that such contract was limited
by its terms to the period of five years from February 1, 1891,
and that it has not been renewed since the time of its expiration on February 1, 1896; that after such time, without any
proceeding to vacate or annul the franchise of the plaintiff, or
to dissolve the corporation, the defendant Leslie, as president
of the village, appointed some of the other defendants to be
water commissioners of the village, having in contemplation
the purpose of constructing for said village a waterworks system of its own; that the persons so appointed commissioners
entered upon the performance of their duties, called a meeting
of the electors of the village, who voted in favor of municipal

SKANEATELES WATER CO. v. SKANEATELES.

357

Statement of the Case.

ownership of the waterworks, and after such election the water
commissioners issued, or caused to be issued bonds of the village
to the amount of $30,000, which they sold for the purpose of
obtaining money to construct a waterworks system of its own;
that the board of water commissioners of the village have entered into a contract for the construction of waterworks for said
village, and have expended thereon about the sum of $24,000,
and the works are substantially completed; that all of the proceedings were taken without instituting any proceeding to condemn the property of the plaintiff herein, although the plaintiff
offered to participate in a proceeding looking towards the condemnation of its property; that the works of the plaintiff were
constructed at large expense and its property rights and franchise mortgaged to secure its bonds which had been issued, and
the income of the plaintiff from the operation of its plant had
been insufficient to meet its outgoing expenses, and will be insufficient to meet its outgoing expenses when it shall cease to
furnish water to the village of Skaneateles.
As conclusions of law the referee held:
(1) That the village of Skaneateles was not required to institute proceedings to condemn the property of the plaintiff
before commencing the construction of a waterworks system
for the use of the village.
(2) That the consent of the village of Skaneateles to the organization of the plaintiff as a waterworks company, and the
making of a contract by the village of Skaneateles with the
plaintiff for the supply of pure and wholesome water, did not
vest in plaintiff the exclusive right to furnish said village with

water, or prevent the village from granting to another corporation the right to supply water within the said village, or the
village from constructing and maintaining a waterworks system
to supply itself with water.
(3) That subsequently to February 1, 1896, no contractual

relations existed between the plaintiff and the village of Skaneateles, and the village was not under legal obligation to enter
into any contract with the plaintiff after that date, or to continue to take water from the plaintiff ; but was entitled to construct and maintain a waterworks system of its own.

OCTOBER TERTI.

1901.

Opinion of the Court.

(4) That the defendants were entitled to judgment dismissing
the complaint upon the merits with costs, and judgment was
ordered accordingly.
Though not, perhaps, material upon the legal rights of the
parties, yet it is seen from correspondence found in the record
that prior to the expiration of the contract in February, 1896,
the company gave notice to the village that it intended to increase its rents for hydrants, etc., to fifty dollars, which sum
was tea dollars per hydrant more than it was entitled to under
the franchise granted it, and twenty dollars more than the sum
named in the expiring contract. The village authorities refused to pay the increase, and the water company, on learning
it had under its franchise the right to charge but forty dollars
per hydrant, reduced its demand, but the parties failed to agree,
and the contract expired. After its expiration the company
notified the village that the hydrants had been closed and that
there must be no interference with them, even in case of fire.
lBoth parties became somewhat excited, is would seem, and it
resulted in the village taking proceedings under chapter 181 of
the laws of 1875, and its amendments for erecting and operating waterworks of its own.
..r. CharlesA. Hawley for plaintiff in error.
Barrow was on his brief.

-Mr. George

.Mr. .IF. F. .Dillon and 31r. William G. Tracy for defendants
in error.
M . JUSTICE PEOKiiHAm, after making the above statement of
facts, delivered the opinion of the court.

The power of this court to review the judgment of the New
York Court of Appeals is limited to a consideration of the question whether any right of the plaintiff's protected by the Federal Constitution has been denied by the judgment. Whether
the plaintiff is entitled to relief under the facts disclosed in the
record upon general principles of equitable jurisdiction, is not
a matter for us to inquire into, so long as the question does not
involve the constitutional rights of the plaintiff.

SKANEATELES WATER CO. v. SKANEATELES.

359

Opinion of the Court.

The claim is made that the ordinance adopted by the authorities of the village of Skaneateles in 1896, providing in substance
for the erection and operation of a water system by the village,
which ordinance was passed pursuant to an authority of the legislature under the act, chapter 181 of the laws of 1875, and
amendments, (giving authority to cities and villages to build
their own waterworks,) impaired the obligation of the contract
existing between the village and the company. The contract
to which reference is made is not the one which was entered
into in 1891 between these parties for the term of five years,
because that contract was fully carried out and had expired by
its own limitation in February, 1896, but it is the contract which
the plaintiff in error claims was implied by reason of its organization and incorporation in 1887, in pursuance of an application
made to, and with the consent of, the village authorities, and
under the provisions of chapter 737 of the laws of New York
of 1873, and the acts amendatory thereof. It is said the village
at the time of plaintiff's incorporation had the election to do
the work itself under the above act of 1875, or to confer upon
a private company like the plaintiff, under the act of 1873, the
right to do it, and when with these two different methods for
obtaining a supply of water the village chose that which called
for a supply by a private company, it impliedly contracted that
it would not itself thereafter take.the other method for obtaining such supply, unless it bought the plant of the company or
condemned it under the provisions of the act of 1875. This, it
is said, was implied in the grant made by the village. Sections 1,
2, 3, 4 and 5 of the act of 1873, under which the plaintiff was incorporated, are set forth in the margin.'

I cA. 737, LAws oF 1873.
SEc. I. Any number of persons not less than seven may hereafter orgauize in any town or village of this State a waterworks company, under the
provisions of this act.
SEc. 2. Whenever any persons to the number of seven or more shall organize for the purpose of forming a waterworks company in any of the towns
or villages in this State, they shall present to the town or village authorities
an application, setting forth the persons who propose to form said company,
the proposed capital stock thereof, the proposed number and character of
the shares of such capital stock, and the name or names of the streams, ponds,

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

Under the act of 1875, chap. 181, the village was authorized
to erect and operate its own works. Provision was made in
the act indetail for the organization of a board of water commissioners and the building of waterworks, the mode of paying
for the same, and other matters connected with the supply of
water. That part of the twenty-second section of the act, in
springs, lakes or other sources and their locations, from which water is to
be supplied. Such applications shall be signed by the persons who propose
to form said company, and shall contain a request that the said town or village authorities shall consider the application of said company to supply
said town or village of this State, or the inhabitants thereof, with pure and
wholesome water. Upon the presentation of such application, the authorities of any town or village, which authorities are for the purposes of this
act defined to consist of incorporated villages and towns, the board of trustees and supervisor, and for all other towns, the supervisor, justices of the
peace, town clerk and commissioner of highways. Said authorities shall
within thirty days of the presentation of said application determine by a
vote of a majority of the authorities of said town or village, whether said
application shall be granted; and the authorities of any town or village in
this State are hereby authorized and empowered to make such determination, and when the same shall be made, to sign a certificate to that effect,
and immediately transmit the same to the person making such application
or either of them. Duplicate certificates of such determination shall be
filed in the office of the clerk of said town or village, and in the office of the
county clerk of the county in which said town or village granting such application shall be situated. The persons named in such application shall
thereupon meet and organize as a waterworks company under such corporate name as they may select. They shall file in the office of the secretary
of State a certificate of such organization. Said certificate shall contain
the name of the corporation, the names of the members of said corporation
and their residences, the amount of capital stock, the location of the office
of said company. Such certificate shall be subscribed and sworn to by the
president of said corporation, and shall be attested by the secretary thereof.
Upon the filing of said certificate said waterworks company shall be known
and deemed a body corporate, and shall be capable of suing and being sued
by the corporate name which they shall have selected, in any of the courts
of this State. The capital stock of said company shall be paid in the manner and within the time provided by the "Act to authorize the formation
of corporations for manufacturing, mechanical or chemical purposes,"
passed February seventeenth, eighteen hundred and forty-eight, and the
several amendments thereto, and the stockholders of said companies shall
be personably liable for the debts of said companies in the same manner
and to the same extent as is provided by said act and the amendments
thereto.

SKANEATELES WATER CO. v. SKANEATELES.

361

Opinion of the Court.

regard to the taking of the property of a private company, is
set forth in the margin.'
Pursuant to the provisions of the act of 1873, certain persons
on July 5, 1887, apply to the village authorities for permission
to organize a water company to supply the village with pure
and wholesome water, and on that day the authorities granted
the request. On August 1, 1887, a certificate was duly filed
in the office of the Secretary of State at Albany, by which the
corporation was formed under the name of The Skaneateles
Waterworks Company. Subsequently to the incorporation of
SEC. 3. Said corporation shall have power to take and hold real estate
for the purpose of their corporation, and may have, hold and occupy any
of the waters of this State; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be deemed to infringe upon any private right which shall not
have been the subject of an agreement and lease or purchase by said corporation. Provided, that said company shall have no power to take or use
water from any of the canals of this State or any canal reservoirs as feeders
or any streams which have been taken by the State for the purpose of
supplying the canals with waters.
SEc. 4. Any corporation organized under the provisions of this act may,
and they are hereby authorized and empowered, to lay their water pipes in
any streets or avenues or public places, in any streets or avenues of an
adjoining town or village, to the town or village where their application
shall have been granted.
SEc. 5.Said corporations are authorized and empowered to supply the
authorities or inhabitants of any town or village where they may have
organized, with pure and wholesome water, at such rates and cost to consumers as they shall agree upon.
I PART OF SEc. 22, CHAP. 181, LAws or 1875.

SEC. 22. "Whenever any corporation shall have been organized under
the laws of this State for the purpose of supplying the inhabitants of any
village with water, and it shall become or be deemed necessary by the
board of water commissioners herein authorized to be created, that the
rights, privileges, grants and properties of such corporation shall be required for any of the purposes of this act, the commissioners herein authorized to be created shall have the power, and it shall be their duty, to make,
or cause to be made, a thorough examination of the works, rights, privileges and properties owned or held by such corporations, or any of them,
and if such commissioners shall determine that said works, rights, privileges and properties are necessary for the purposes of this act, they shall
have the right to make application to the Supreme Court.

.

section then provides for taking the property by condemnation.

. o" The

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

the plaintiff it built the waterworks and entered into a contract
with the village authorities to supply water to the village for
five years from February 1, 1891.
It would seem to be clear, under the decisions of this court,
that the plaintiff in applying to the village and filing its certificate with the Secretary of State under the act of 1873 acquired
no contract right, expressed or implied, to any exclusive privilege of using the streets of the village for supplying it with
water. charles River Bridge Company v. Warren Bridge
Company, 11 Pet. 420; Long Jsland Water Supply Company
v. Brooklyn, 166 IT. S.685, 696; lfalla lfalla City v. Wyalla
Walla Water Com any, 172 U. S.1, 13. The Court of Appeals
of New York held to the same effect in regard to a provision
in the charter of Syracuse relating to the rights of a water
company, the provision being similar to the charter here involved. Syracuse Water Company v. Syracuse City, 116 N. Y.
167, decided in 1889; also Mlfatter of City of Brooklyn, 143
N. Y. 596, affirmed in this court, 166 U. S. supra. Indeed,
this proposition is conceded by counsel for the plaintiff, and it
admits that the village, notwithstanding its grant to the plaintiff, possessed the power to grant to any other individual company the same kind of privilege it had already granted to
plaintiff. But it denies the right of the village to avail itself
of the authority to itself build and operate the works, given
under the act of 1875, unless the plaintiff's plant be taken by
purchase or condemnation.
Having before it the above act of 1873, amended in 1877, the
Court of Appeals, in People ex rel. &c. v. Forrest and others, 97
N. Y. 97, 100, decided in 1884, said that: "The State authorized the formation of waterworks companies in its towns and
villages, (Laws of 1877T, chap. 171,) but it does not require one
so organized to supply water to the town or village, nor does
it require the town or village to take its supply of water from
the company so formed."
It is true that by chapter 566 of the laws of 1890 it was provided that the water companies "shall supply the authorities or
any of the inhabitants of any city, town or village through
which the conduits or mains of such corporation may pass, with

SKANEATELES WATER CO. v. SKANEATELES.

363

Opinion of the Court.

pure and wholesome water at reasonable rates and cost;" and
the act provided that contracts might be made therefor. But
there was no provision making it incumbent upon the municipal authorities to take water from any such company.
By virtue of its incorporation under this act of 1873 the plaintiff secured simply the right to be a corporation and the authority to lay its water pipes in any of the streets and avenues
or public streets of the village of Skaneateles. The village,
however, as stated, was under no obligation to take water from
the company. That was a matter for subsequent contract between the parties. Admitting that in every grant there is an
implication that the grantor will do nothing to detract from
the full and complete operation of the grant itself, we cannot
find any implication that, after the termination of the contract
the plaintiff and defendant were empowered to make, there
should be no right in the defendant to build its own system of
waterworks under the statute of 1875, unless it purchased or
condemned the property of the plaintiff.
There is no implied contract in an ordinary grant of a franchise, such as this, that the grantor will never do any act by
which the value of the franchise granted may in the future be
reduced. Such a contract would be altogether too far reaching
and important in its possible consequences in the way of limitation of the powers of a municipality, even in matters not immediately connected with water, to be left to implication. We
think none such arises from the facts detailed.
It is not amiss to here recall the situation at the time plaintiff became incorporated, in 1887, under the act of 1873. That
act provided for the organization and incorporation of water
companies which might furnish water to cities, villages and
towns of the State. There was also the act of 1875 (chapter
181) and its amendments, granting to the village authorities
the right to erect and operate a water system of their own.
There was the further statutory provision, (chapter 129 of the
Laws of 1879, relating to the municipality, and chapter 422 of
the Laws of 1885, relating to a water company,) that the contracts to be entered into between the water companies and the
municipal authorities should not extend beyond five years, un-

OCTOBER TERM. 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

less there was a vote of the electors authorizing a contract for
a longer period, but in no case longer than thirty years. Now
while the parties are prohibited from contracting for more
than five years without a vote of the electors, which was not
taken, how can it be said that when they contracted only for
the time permitted by the legislature, there was nevertheless
an implied contract that the village would never avail itself of
the right provided by statute, without purchasing or condemning the property of the plaintiff ? No such condition is stated
in any statute. We cannot see any solid foundation for the
claim that there was a final and conclusive election of methods
by the village, out of which sprang the implied contract contended for, when the legislature at that very time prohibited a
contract for more than five years. It would seem in the nature
of things that the election of methods was for no longer a time
than the law permitted a contract to be made under the
method chosen by the village. After the expiration of that time
we cannot see why the parties were not in the same condition
as to their respective rights that they were in before the contract for the five years was made. Otherwise, we have the
anomalous condition that the village may grant unconditionally,
the franchise to supply it with water, to another private company, while ceasing and refusing to take from the old company,
and yet it cannot erect its own water system, (unless it purchases or condemns the plant of the plaintiff,) because it chose
to enter into a contract with plaintiff for a supply of water by
it for five years, although the contract has expired by its own
limitation and the parties are under no legal obligation to renew it. We can appreciate the argument that the village had
no right to build and use its own plant during the running of
the five years' contract, but we fail to see the force of the claim
that, on account of once making a contract with the plaintiff
for five years, the village irrevocably bound itself by an implied
contract never to build its own plant without taking by condemnation the property of the plaintiff if the parties could not
agree on terms of purchase. We cannot see the logic of such
contention.
The very fact that the taking of the plant of a private exist-

SIANEATELES WATER CO. v. SKANEATELES.

365

Opinion of the Court.

ing company was not made a condition for the exercise of the
authority to build granted the village by the act of 1875, shows
there was no implied contract to take such property. The right
to build was specifically given to the village under the act of
1875, whether any private company existed or not, and that
right to build was nowhere in the statute conditional upon a
taking by the village of the plant of the private company. The
act recognized the fact that there might be an existing private
company, and the twenty-second section gave the village authority to take it, but did not compel it. It, therefore, authorized the village to build and operate its works without taking
the plant of the private company. Both these acts were in existence when the plaintiff was incorporated under the act of
1873, and it took the chance of the village thereafter availing
itself of the act of 1875 to build and operate, unconditionally,
its own plant.
When the contract for the five years had expired we look in
vain for anything in either of the statutes of 1873 or 1875 upon
which to base the implied contract contended for. The court
below, after careful consideration of the statute of 1875,
came to the conclusion that there was nothing in the language
of the twenty-second or any other section thereof compelling
the village to purchase or condemn the plant of the company,
and that no contract could be implied therefrom. Chief Judge
Parker, in his opinion in this case, (161 N. Y. 154, at page 162,)
says:
"On the other hand, the appellant urges that the statute authorizing villages to supply themselves with water, and permitting the acquisition of the works of any private corporation
that may be supplying such municipalities with water, also
makes it the duty of the water commissioners to acquire the
property of the existing corporation or corporations. But after
a very careful examination of the statute it seems to us very
clear that this is not so. It is probable that the legislature mistakenly assumed that such authorities would not act unjustly
or oppressively, but would recognize the property rights of
others. Be that as it may, the right to determine whether the
property of an existing waterworks corporation should be taken

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

or not is clearly submitted to the determination of the local
authorities. The refusal of the defendant, therefore, to acquire
the plaintiff's property by proceedings in invitum does not tend
to support the plaintiff's claim for an injunction. The defendant has done precisely what the statute authorizes, and all that
remains for the court to determine is whether the act was
within the legislative power, or void because in contravention
of the organic law."
The judge then proceeded to discuss that question, and held
that the action of the village was legal. We concur in this
view. The language too plainly leaves it to the discretion and
judgment of the water commissioners, to permit of any other construction. Not being bound by the statute to take the property
of the plaintiff as a condition of building its own plant, there
is, as we have said, no implication of a contract to do that which
the statute itself does not direct.
Reference was made on the argument to two Pennsylvania
cases, decided by the Supreme Court of that State. They are
IVite v. City of -Meadville, 177 Penn. St. 643, and .fetzger v.
Beaver Falls &c., 178 Penn. St. 1. They decide what is the
proper construction to be given certain statutes of that State relating to municipal corporations, and to water companies formed
to supply them with water. The actions were brought by taxpayers of the municipalities to restrain the latter from erecting
works of their own to supply water. The court held that under
the powers given to the municipalities by those statutes, they
had not the right to erect such works unless they took the plant
of the water companies then operating such plant. They did not
hold there was any implied contract on the part of the municipalities that they would so take the plant, or that to operate
works of their own without doing so would be a taking of the
property without due process of law or without making compensation, or that it would be a denial of the equal protection
of the laws. The cases were maintained on equitable principles
and in favor of taxpayers who were complainants, and there
was no question of contract between the city and the water
company upon the basis of which the actions were permitted
to stand. It was a simple question of the powers granted to the

SKANEATELES WATER CO. v. SKANEATELES.

367

Opinion of the Court.

parties by the different statutes. The court said that although
the city was not bound to become the owner of thd works, it
had no power to destroy their value by duplicating them at the
expense of the taxpayers. A taxpayer was the plaintiff. The
court decided no Federal question in either case. The statutes
of New York are somewhat different, and. the state court has
come to the conclusion that under them the village was not
bound to take the plant of the plaintiff. We agree in the view
that there was no implied contract to take the property of plaintiff, even though the village should subsequently to the expiration of the written contract erect its own water system.
It is also plain that as there was no contract, such as is
claimed by the plaintiff, the action of the village has not resulted in the taking of any of the property of the plaintiff
without due process of law or without compensation. It has
not taken any of the property of the plaintiff in any aspect of
the case. Its action may have seriously impaired the value of
the plaintiff's property, but it has taken none of it, and such
decrease in value, caused by the village exercising its right to
build and operate its own plant, furnishes, under the facts in
this case, no foundation for the plaintiff's claim. LehigA JTater
Company v. .Easton, 121 UC.S. 388, 390.
In Pumpelly v. Green Bay Company, 13 Wall. 466, the land
of the plaintiff had been overflowed by water under a claim of
right under a statute, and it was held that such continuous
overflow and user amounted to a taking of the plaintiff's property.
This is not such a case. The property of the plaintiff remains wholly untouched. Its value has decreased because the
village no longer takes water from it, and the inhabitants will
probably also take their supply from the village works, but the
plaintiff's property has not been taken, as that term is understood in constitutional law. What the village ought to do in
the moral aspect of the case is, of course, not a question for us
to determine.
The Court of Appeals has held in this case that the provisions
in the statute for the taxation of the property of the company
in common with other owners of property to pay the obliga-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Syllabus.

tions incurred in the construction of the works by the village,
and all dicriminating taxation of the patrons of the company
are invalid. See also Warsaw Waterworks Company v. -Fillage of Warsaw, 161 N. Y. 176. The plaintiff is, therefore,
freed from the obligations imposed by those provisions.
The views above expressed show that there was no such contract as claimed by the plaintiff, and consequently no impairment of the obligations of any contract, and there has been no
taking of plaintiff's property, nor has it been denied by the
State the equal protection of the laws. The judgment of the
Court of Appeals of New York is right, and must, therefore, be
A/flrmed.

DETROIT v. DETROIT CITIZENS' STREET RAILWAY
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 152. Argued November 4,5,1901.-Decided MIarch 3, 1902.

The Detroit Citizens' Street Railway Company, at the time this action was
commenced, was operating upwards of one hundred and thirty-five miles
of street railways in Detroit, under grants and permissions made by the
city government of Detroit, and by the statutes of Michigan set forth in
the statement of facts and in the opinion of the court in this case. This
litigation arises out of the different constructions placed by the parties
upon the statutes of Michigan, called respectively the Tram-railway Act,
and the Street-railway Act, both in force when said company acquired its
powers. The provisions made by those statutes are summed up in the
statement of facts. Held:
(1) That this was not such a case as on its face equity could have no jurisdiction over, and that, considering the public interests involved, a
case is made out for following the general rule that a defence of
want of equity jurisdiction will not be recognized where it has not
been taken by answer, or in any other manner, and is not insisted
upon on the hearing before the court;
(2) That there can be no question in this court as to the competency of
a state legislature, unless prohibited by constitutional provisions,

