BRAINARD v. BUCK.
Statement of the Case.

For the reasons stated the decree of which the State complains
must be affrmed and it is so ordered.
The OmEF JUSTICE having been of counsel for the city of
Chicago in the earliest stages of this litigation, took no part in
the consideration or decision of this case.

BRAINARD v. BUCK.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 110. Argued January 15,16, 1902.-DecidedFebruary 24, 1902.

The court below had power to authorize the amendment made to the bill.
It is the settled doctrine of this court that the concurrent decisions of two
courts upon a question of fact will be followed, unless shown to be clearly
erroneous; and in this case, after examining the evidence, it seems to this
court that the findings of the court below were justified by it: and that
they established that a trust resulted in favor of Buck.

THE appellants seek a review in this court of the judgment of
the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, in this case,
affirming a judgment of the Supreme Court of the District
enjoining the appellants from the further prosecution of an
action of ejectment brought by them against appellee Coleman
in the Supreme Court of the District, to recover a one fifth interest in a house and lot in the city of Washington, in the possession of Coleman as tenant of appellee, Leffert L. Buck, who
claims to be 'the owner thereof. The appellees, Buck and Coleman, commenced this suit in April, 1898, and in their bill of
complaint they alleged the bringing of the action of ejectment
on or about July 26, 1897, by William H. Brainard, as one of
the heirs of his brother, the late Charles F. Brainard, to recover
an undivided one fifth interest in the real estate mentioned.
The bill further alleged that the complainant Buck was the
brother of one Cornelia A. Brainard, whose husband was Charles
F. Brainard, both of whom lived in the city of Washington up
to the time of the death of Charles on May 13, 1881, and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

widow thereafter continued to live in that city until her death
on March 31, 1892. On June 12, 1872, Charles F. Brainard,
the husband, made and executed his last will and testament, by
which he devised and bequeathed to his wife all of his property
of every kind and description for her own use and benefit.
Afterwards and on July 18,1879, there was conveyed to Charles
F. Brainard by deed the premises in question. After the death
of Charles F. Brainard and on March 31, 1882, his widow, by
deed, duly conveyed her title to the premises to her brother,
the complainant Buck. The bill then contained the following
averments:
"8. The plaintiffs further show that the plaintiff, Leffert L.
Buck, was the brother of the said Cornelia A. Brainard, and
that her husband, the said Charles F. Brainard, was in his lifetime employed as a clerk in the Treasury Department; that he
had little or no means of support outside of the salary which
he received, and that the plaintiff, Leffert L. Buck, being willing to aid and assist his sister, and being solicited by her and
her husband so to do, furnished and advanced the money to pay
for the said property and premises first above described; that
the said premises were purchased with money so advanced by
the said plaintiff, L. L. Buck, in part directly to the said Brainard to pay for and on account of said property, and in part to
the wife of the said Brainard, and in part in taking up and paying encumbrances which had been put upon said property for
the purchase price thereof; that said money was so advanced
and said property purchased for the sole and only purpose of
giving to the said Cornelia A. Brainard, the sister of the said
L. L. Buck, a home, and that it was so understood by the said
Brainard at the time of said purchase; that the said property
was conveyed to the said Brainard instead of to his wife for the
reason that prior to said conveyance the said Brainard had executed his will, by which said will he had devised and bequeathed
to his said wife all of his property of every kind, and it was
understood and believed by the said Brainard and his wife that
if she should survive him the property would descend to her,
and that in event she should not survive him, her said husband,
she would have a home on said property during her lifetime,

BRAINARD v. BUCK.
Statement of the Case.

and that during said period said Brainard should hold the title
to said property as trustee for said plaintiff, Leffert L. Buck."
The bill then set forth the names of the surviving heirs at
law of Charles F. Brainard, and averred that some of them had
quitolaimed the property to the plaintiff Buck. It is also
averred that from the time of the death of Charles F. Brainard
his widow lived in the house, and that she conveyed the premises to Buck by deed on March 31, 1882, and that he believed
that the legal title was in him until the commencement of the
ejectment suit, when he was advised that the will of Charles F.
Brainard did not convey the property to his sister for the reason that it was acquired by Brainard after the execution of the
will, which did not operate to convey after-acquired property.
For relief, the bill asked that the plaintiffs in the action of
ejectment might be perpetually enjoined from further prosecuting the same, and that it might be declared that the land in
question was charged with a trust in favor of, and ought to be
held for, the use and benefit of the plaintiff Buck, and that the
defendants, or such of them as should appear to have the legal
title to the lands, should be decreed to convey such legal title
free and clear of all encumbrances done or suffered by them or
any or either of them unto the plaintiff Buck.
The defendant William iT. Brainard demurred to the bill on
the ground, among others, that the promise set forth in the bill
was not in writing or signed by the deceased, Charles F. Brainard, and was within the meaning of the statute for the prevention of frauds and perjuries ; also that Buck had been guilty
of gross and inexcusable laches in bringing his suit.
The demurrer was sustained with leave to the plaintiffs to
amend. Pursuant to such leave the plaintiff served an amended
bill, which was a full and complete bill, taking the place of the
original, and restated all the facts set forth in the original bill,
but left out the above quoted eighth paragraph. The complainants in the ninth, tenth, eleventh and twelfth paragraphs
of the amended bill made the following averments:
"9. That from March 12, 1815, until June 3, 1880, the said
plaintiff, Leffert L. Buck, sent to the said Charles F. Brainard,
for investment as agent for him, the said Leffert L. Buck, vari-

OCTOBER TERM. 1901.
Statement of the Case.

ous sums of money-the particular amounts of which, and the
dates at which they were received by said Charles F. Brainard,
deceased, are stated in 'Exhibit D,' hereto annexed-and authorized the said Charles F. Brainard, as agent for him, the
said Leffert L. Buck, to invest the same in real estate, bonds
and securities in the city of Washington; that on or about the
18th day of July, 1879, the said Charles F. Brainard purchased
the said property and premises hereinbefore described for the
sum of $6350, and paid on said purchase price the sum of $2550
out of the moneys so sent to him for investment by the said
plaintiff, Leffert L. Buck, as aforesaid; that upon said purchase
the said Charles F. Brainard took the deed of said property to
himself without the knowledge, consent or authority of said
plaintiff so to do; that said deed is the same deed hereinbefore
mentioned as 'Exhibit B;' that thereafter and on or about
March 12, 1880, said Charles F. Brainard made a further payment of $1266.66 on said property out of said moneys so sent
to him for investment by said plaintiff, Leffert L. Buck, as
aforesaid; that on the 8th day of June, 1880, there still remained in the hands of said Charles F. Brainard out of the
said moneys so received by him for investment as agent for the
said plaintiff, Leffert L. Buck, the sum of $793.58, no part of
which has ever been repaid to or received by said plaintiff;
that on or about the 25th day of July, 1879, said Charles F.
Brainard executed to John F. Waggaman and James A. Harban, trustees, a deed of trust on said property to secure payment of the balance of the purchase money then unpaid
thereon; and that said deed of trust was executed without
the knowledge, consent or authority of said plaintiff, Leffert
L. Buck; that after the 8th day of June, 1880, and before his
death, the said Charles F. Brainard made further payments on
said property, not exceeding in amount the sum of $650, out of
the said moneys so received by him from said plaintiff for investment as aforesaid, the particular dates of which payments
plaintiffs are unable more definitely at this time to state, for
the reason that the books and accounts of the Western Building Association, to which said payments were made, have been
destroyed.

BRAINARD v. BUCK.
Statement of the Case.
""10.That. after

the death of the said Charles Brainard the

plaintiff Leffert L. Buck was informed by his said sister, Cornelia A. Brainard, that she held the legal title to said property
under the last will and testament of her said husband, which
is the instrument hereinbefore mentioned as 'Exhibit A,' and
that there remained unpaid upon said trust deed the sum of
$1971.81; that thereupon, and on or about the 17th day of
March, 1882, said plaintiff, Leffert L. Buck, paid the balance
due upon said trust deed, which was thereupon discharged, to
wit, the sum $1971.81; and thereafter, and on the 31st day
of March, 1882, the said Cornelia A. Brainard conveyed the
said property to him by the deed referred to as IExhibit C,'
and the said plaintiff, Leffert L. Buck, thereupon and on that
day entered into and has ever since remained in undisturbed
possession of said premises.
"11. And the plaintiffs further show that all of the moneys
that were paid for the purchase of said property, including the
whole consideration thereof, were paid by the plaintiff Leffert
L. Buck.
"12. And the plaintiffs further show that not until after the
said action at law No.41,274, which is the suit of said William
H. Brainard against Tames Coleman, had been brought had the
plaintiff Leffert L. Buck any information that the legal title to
said premises did not pass to his sister, the said Cornelia A. Brainard, under the will of her said husband, Charles F. Brainard."
The defendants demurred to this amended bill on the same
grounds stated in the demurrer to the original bill, and also on
the ground that a new and different cause of action had been
set up in the amended bill from the one in the original bill.
The demurrer was overruled, and the defendants thereupon answered, in which among other things, they denied complainants'
allegation as to the payments for the premises by Buck, and
averred that the purchase money for the premises had been
paid out of Charles F. Brainard's own funds in cash or by his
notes secured by deed of trust, which notes were subsequently
paid by Brainard.
Upon the trial there was a final decree in favor of the complainants, and the defendants were enjoined from prosecuting

OCTOBER TERM. 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

the action at law, and they were directed to convey, quitclaim
and release the real estate unto the complainant Buck, and in
default of their doing so it was adjudged that the decree then
given should operate and stand as such conveyance, quitclaim
and release.
-Mr. Leo Simmons and XM'. Hugh T. Taggart for appellants.
i -.

TV. Baker was on their brief.

iXr. E. V Brookshire for appellees.
.Mr. James CoZeman filed a brief for Buck, appellee.
.M'. Nelson L. Robinson filed a brief for appellees.
MR. JUSTIO

PEcKHAM,

after stating the above facts, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The appellants insist that the Supreme Court of the District
had no power to authorize the amendment which was made by
the appellees to their original bill in this suit, because, as they
assert, the cause of action set forth in the amendment is new,
different and distinct from that set forth in the original bill,
and that therefore the demurrer to the amended bill should have
been sustained.
We fully agree with the courts below in holding that the allowance of the amendment was within the discretion of the
court, and that the demurrer on the ground stated was properly
overruled. The case comes within the principle of Jones v. Van
Doren, 130 U. S. 684, 690. The purpose in both bills was the
same, to establish a resulting trust in favor of the complainant
Buck on account of the transactions set forth in the bills, and
while the reasons are stated more fully in the amended bill and
in some respects differently from those in the original bill, yet
the purpose is the same, arising from the same transactions and
based upon the same general rule of law applicable to resulting
trusts.
Upon the merits of the case, the two courts below have come

BRAINARD v. BUCK.
Opinion of the Court.

to the same conclusion. The general finding of the trial court
in favor of the complainants was a finding in their favor of all
the material facts alleged in the amended bill, and those facts
have been repeated and affiried in the Court of Appeals, and
we are now asked to review and reverse those findings upon the
testimony contained in the record. It ought not to be done in
this case. It is the settled doctrine of this court that the concurrent decisions of two courts upon a question of fact will be
followed, unless shown to be clearly erroneous. The Carib
Prince,170 U. S. 655, 658, and cases there cited. After examining the evidence in the case, we are not convinced that the
findings of the court below were erroneous, but on the contrary
it seems to us that they are justified by the evidence.
In regard to the evidence on the part of the complainants
given on the trial, defendants assert it to be different from and
inconsistent with the statements of fact contained in the
amended bill, but a careful perusal of the whole evidence fails
to convince us that there exists any such real and material inconsistency, but on the contrary the evidence substantially corroborates and justifies the averments of the amended bill.
The account book of the deceased Brainard was put in evidence, and some criticism has been made by counsel for the defendants in regard to the manner in which the deceased kept
his accounts, as evidenced in that book, and some faint claim
seems to have been made that the book showed that moneys
had been sent by Brainard to Buck instead of the reverse, as
claimed by Buck. This criticism arises on account of the position of the words "Dr." and "Or." with regard to the statement of the account between the two people. However, a perusal of the accounts in the book, taken in connection with the
statement of the account between the parties made by Brainard
in his lifetime and in his handwriting and given to complainant Buck, shows beyond any controversy that the moneys were
advanced by Buck to Brainard and not the reverse. There is
really no contradiction of the evidence on the part of the complainants that it was the money of Buck, and his alone, which
paid for the property in question.
From the evidence which was taken upon the trial and upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

which the trial court gave judgment in favor of the complainants, the Court of Appeals itself found the facts similar to the
averments in the amended bill, and stated them as follows, 16
D. C. App. 595:
"Leffert L. Buck was a civil engineer and a bachelor. His
residence was in the city of New York; but his professional engagements called him to different parts of the world. He testified that he went to Peru in 1875, and before leaving sent about
$200 to Brainard for investment. He continued to send sums
of money from time to time from 1877 to 1880, and during the
latter year. Brainard invested from time to time in bonds
which he sold for reinvestment.
"Brainard kept an account book, which has been preserved,
and the entries therein of money received from Buck correspond
with a statement rendered to the latter and produced by him in
evidence.
"Buck testified that he suggested the joint purchase of the
house and lot in controversy, which Brainard wrote him could
be had for $6350. Brainard made the purchase at that price
on July 18, 1879, making a cash payment thereon of $2550 with
Buck's money, as the account book shows. The remainder
was raised by mortgage. The account book, under the same
date, shows the charge of the cost of recording the deed, and
of insurance against Buck. The deed was made to Brainard.
"Buck testified that early in 1880, he learned that the deed
was in the name of Brainard alone, and suggested to the latter
to convey to him and he would pay the balance, and Brainard
and wife could occupy the house as a home. Brainard was
then in bad health. He did not wish to make the transfer then,
saying that when he recovered he would be able to go on and
pay the balance on the property, and would also be able to pay
for Buck's half, and he thought that better than to go to the
expense of making two transfers. He said that, in any event,
the property would go to his wife with everything that he had
in case of his death. He was sick and nervous, and Buck did
not press the matter. Brainard died of Bright's disease, and
was suffering therefrom at the time, though it was not then
known.

BRAINARD r. BUCK.
Opinion of the Court.

"On March 12, 1880, he paid $1266.66 on the mortgage with
Buck's money in his hands.
"Some time after that Brainard made a statement in writing
of the cost of the property, showing the payments made with
Buck's money, and stating therein that he proposed to convey
to Buck a half interest in the property, and to give him his
note for the excess paid over one half. He expected to be able
to pay back to Buck this excess and also to finish paying for the
property.
"1Buck testified that he did not agree to this, but let matters
run on because of Brainard's nervous condition, and because
he expected the will of Brainard would vest the legal title in
his sister. Brainard died without completing the payment for
the property.
"Mrs. Brainard remained in possession, claiming under the
will, but conveyed the title to Buck, who paid the last mortgage, amounting to nearly $2000. Mrs. Brainard made her
home there until she died on March 31, 1892. Buck was frequently there, and contributed to her support. When she died
he leased the property and has since collected the rents, kept
the property in repair, and paid all the taxes.
"Without going into further details, it is sufficient to say
that the evidence on behalf of Buck, corroborated on all the
material points by the entries in the book of Brainard, shows
clearly that the purchase of the property was made with his
money in the hands of Brainard for investment; and that Brainard was his agent and trustee and not his debtor for money
lent for the purpose. From these facts it is clear that a trust
resulted in favor of Buck, which entitled him to a conveyance
of the legal title. 2 Por. Eq. sec. 1037."
We think the law in this respect was correctly stated by the
court below.
The defendants also rely upon the defence of laches on the
part of the complainants, in that they permitted so long a time
to elapse after they knew that the title was in the name of
Brainard.
We also agree with the court below that this defence is not
sustained. When the knowledge came to the complainant

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

Buck that the title was in Brainard, Buck asked him to transfer it to the complainant, and stated that he (Buck) would pay
the balance of the purchase money unpaid on the premises.
This Brainard disliked to do, and wanted Buck to wait and
see if he (Brainard) could not make payments, and thus keep
the house for himself. During this time Brainard was ill, and,
as it subsequently appeared, was then suffering from Bright's
disease, although he did not then know the cause of his illness,
and the complainant says that he acquiesced because he did not
wish to worry Brainard, and so the matter ran on for a little
while, and was terminated by the sudden death of Brainard
without anything having been done.
This did not amount to any settlement, nor did it in any way
bar the rights otherwise existing in favor of the complainant
Buck. It was a mere hope expressed on the part of Brainard
that he might thereafter be able to pay for the house and a
passive acquiescence on the part of the complainant that such
effort might be made. As is said, nothing was ever in fact
done, and no real alteration was ever made in the position of
the two parties.
We have then the conditions of the title taken to the property in the name of Brainard, unknown to the complainant at
the time, and the money furnished by Buck to Brainard as his
agent, and put into the purchase of the house and lot. Subsequently and a short time before the death of Brainard, Buck discovers the fact, and Brainard and his wife are then living on the
premises. He knows that Brainard has made a will in favor of
his wife, for he has been told by Brainard that upon his death
everything was to go to her, and wants his sister to have a
home, and is entirely satisfied in that way. He believed that
the property would pass to the wife by the will in case of the
death of Brainard. After Brainard's death, his widow (complainant's sister) remains in the house, and Buck contributes to
her support while living there. She conveys the premises to
him by deed, and he supposed that he thereby acquired full
title to the premises, and paid the balance of the purchase
money. After the death of his sister he takes possession of
the property, and has continued in possession ever since, and it

BRAINARD v. BUCK.
Opinion of the Court.

was not until after the commencement of the action of ejectment that the complainant Buck had any knowledge that the
legal title to the premises did not pass to his sister under the
will of her husband, because it was acquired subsequently to
that will. That action of ejectment was commenced in 1897,
and this bill was filed April 15, 1898. These facts, we think,
are sufficient to excuse all the delay that has been shown to
exist in this case. It is covered by the principles laid down in
Buckman v. 0Coy, 129 U. S. 387, 389, and Townsend v. Van
de&werker, 160 U. S. 171, 185, 186.
Upon this subject we fully agree with what was said by Mr.
Justice Shepard, in delivering the opinion in this case in the
Court of Appeals, as follows:
"Buck entertained affection for and had perfect confidence in
Brainard. He was anxious to secure a comfortable home for
his sister. Brainard became seriously ill, and his condition was
such that Buck would not aggravate it by importunity. Besides, he was assured that Brainard would devise the property
to his sister. In fact, Brainard had made, and executed with
due formality, a will leaving everything to his wife. This will
was then, and until the institution of the action of ejectment,
supposed to operate a conveyance of the property in question.
Buck, so believing, took a conveyance from his sister, who was
childless, and paid off the last encumbrance. He suffered her
to occupy the house until her death. In the meantime, none
of the heirs-at-law of Brainard made any claim to the property.
Their apparent acquiescence tended to confirm Buck, who was
in actual possession all of the time, in the belief that his title
was perfect. There was nothing, therefore, to suggest the
necessity or importance of resorting to a court of equity for the
confirmation of that title, until the institution of the action of
ejectment. When roused to action, he was diligent in taking
it. This long, undisturbed possession, under a title supposed to
be perfect, presents a stronger excuse for delay, also, than that
held sufficient in Rucman v. Cory, supra, wherein it was said:
'Nor has the plaintiff been guilty of any such laches as would
close the doors of a court of equity against him. He was in
the peaceful occupancy of the premises for some years prior to

OCTOBER TERM,

1901.

Opinion of the Court.

any assertion of title upon the part of the defendant under the
deed of 1872. If he had not been all the time in the possession
of the premises, controlling them as if he were the absolute
owner, the question of laches might be a more serious one than
it is. The bringing of the action of ejectment was, so far as
the record shows, the first notice he had of the necessity of
legal proceedings for his protection against the legal title held
by the defendant. As proceedings to that end were not unreasonably delayed, we do not perceive that laches can be imputed to him. Laches are rather to be imputed to the defendant, who, although claiming to have been the absolute owner
of the lands since 1862, took no action against the plaintiff until
the ejectment suit was instituted.'"
The last objection made by the appellants consists in an assertion that in no possible view of the evidence, even upon a
proper bill, could Buck be properly held to be entitled as a
matter of equitable right to more than a decree for an accounting, wherein he should be credited with advances of money
made by him to Brainard in the latter's lifetime and invested
by the latter in the property, and further credited with the
sum paid by him after Brainard's death in the settlement of
Brainard's debt to the building association secured by the deed
of trust, (thus subrogating him to the rights of the association,)
and charged with rents and other proper offsets and with an
equitable lien on the property for the balance thus found to be
due, if any.
Taking the facts as found by the courts below, this claim is
not well founded. The moneys of the complainant Buck were
used by his agent Brainard in the purchase of the premises and
at the time of the death of the agent the whole purchase price
had not been paid. After his death that balance was paid by
Buck, who thus paid every dollar that has gone into the purchase price of the premises, and the substance of the whole
evidence tends directly to show that while the funds were used
by the agent with the assent of his principal, Buck, the taking
of the title in Brainard's name was unknown to his principal.
Buck's money, and Buck's money alone, has been paid for the
whole premises, and there is neither equity nor justice in refus-

CLEVELAND TRUST CO. v. LANDER.
Statement of the Case.

ing him the legal title to the property purchased with his own
money.
The judgment should be
Affirmed.

CLEVELAND TRUST COMPANY v. LANDER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 88. Argued January 10, 102.-Decided February 24,1902.

What the constitution of the State of Ohio requires or what the statutes of
that State require as to taxation, must be left in this case to be decided
by the Supreme Court of the State, and its decision is not open to review
or objection here.
The manner of taxation in this case being legal under the statutes of the
United States, its effect cannot be complained of in Federal tribunals.

THIs is a writ of error, to review the judgment-of the Supreme
Court of the State of ,Ohio, which sustained the ruling of the
Court of Common Pleas of Cuyahoga County, dismissing upon
the demurrer of the defendant in error the petition of the plaintiff in error praying for an order and decree restraining the
collection of taxes levied upon the shares of the stockholders of
'plaintiff in error. 62 Ohio, 266.
The plaintiff (plaintiff in error was plaintiff in the court below) is a banking corporation with a capital stock of $500,000,
divided into 5000 shares of $100 each, all of which are paid up,
and for which certificates are outstanding and owned by a large
number of persons, most of whom reside in Ohio.
The plaintiff made in due time return of its resources and
liabilities, in accordance with section 2765 of the Revised Statutes of Ohio, to the auditor of the county, together with a full
statement of the names and residences of the stockholders of
the company, and with the number of shares held by each and
the par value thereof, as required by the statute. The return
included its real estate and one hundred and seventy-four bonds

