CASES ADJUDGED
IN

T

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.

MUELLER v. NUGENT.
OERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 257. Argued and submitted November 13, 1901.-Decided Jauuary 20,1902.

Referees in bankruptcy exercise much of the judicial authority of the court
of bankruptcy, and may enter orders to show cause subject to revision by
the District Court.
Commitment until assets of a bankrupt are surrendered pursuant to order
does not constitute imprisonment for debt.
The bankruptcy court has power to compel the surrender of money or other
assets of the bankrupt in his possession, or that of some one for him, on
petition and rule to show cause.
The filing of a petition in bankruptcy is a caveat to all the world, and in
effect an attachment and injunction, and on adjudication and qualification of trustee, the bankrupt's property is placed in the custody of the
bankruptcy court, and title becomes vested in the trustee.
The refusal to surrender property of the bankrupt does not in itself create
an adverse claim at the time the petition is filed.
EDWARD B. NUGENT was adjudicated a bankrupt March 23
1900, on the petition of the Wayne Knitting Mills and others,
his creditors, filed in the District Court of the United States for
the District of Kentucky, February 19, 1900, and the matter
was referred to a referee. Arthur E. Mueller was appointed
trustee of the bankrupt's estate, and on the seventh of April he
obtained an order from the referee requiring the bankrupt to
VOL. CLXXXV-1

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

show cause why he should not pay over the sum of $14,233.45,
made up of two items of $4133.45 and $10,100. The response
of the bankrupt was held insufficient; he was ordered to pay
over; on failure to do so, was adjudged guilty of contempt, and
the matter was reported to the court by the referee with a recommendation that he be committed. On the suggestion that
approaching senile imbecility made the bankrupt an unfit subject of punishment the court discharged him, without prejudice
to a renewal of the matter before the referee if subsequent developments rendered it proper.
April 13, 1900, the trustee filed his petition praying that an
injunction might be issued against William T. Nugent, restraining him from disposing of the sum of $14,435.45, or any part
thereof, belonging to the estate of the bankrupt, and for an order requiring him to pay the money to the trustee. This petition stated that William T. Nugent was in hiding. The referee
granted the injunction and entered an order that said William T.
iNugent show cause within five days from service thereof why
he should not be required to pay over.
A copy of this order was served on William T. Nugent, October 8, 1900, and on October 13 he appeared in person and by
counsel, and filed a response to the rule. In this respondent set
forth that "neither the court or the referee in bankruptcy
herein, has any jurisdiction either of this respondent or the matter involved, to make any order or to require this respondent to
answer thereto, because he says that said records herein show,
that, if respondent received said money or any part thereof, it
was before the petition in bankruptcy was filed, and in that
event neither the court or the referee in bankruptcy can proceed against this respondent as herein attempted by order or
rule to pay, and he now hereby asks that this be taken as his
response herein, and that said order be set aside and vacated.
He says that at no time since the filing of the petition in bankruptcy herein, has he received said $14,435.45 or any part
thereof."
For further response be said that he had been indicted in the
District Court for receiving said $14,435.45, after the filing of
the petition, and with retaining the same, and aiding and

MUELLER v. NUGENT.
Statement of the Case.

abetting in the retention thereof, both after the filing and the
adjudication, for the purpose of defeating the bankrupt law,
and that he ought not to be required to respond, and his response would tend to incriminate him.
The matter came on for hearing October 16, it being stipulated, without prejudice to the objection to the jurisdiction,
that the depositions of Edward B. Nugent, and others named,
(not including William T. iNugent,) theretofore taken in the
cause, might be read. The referee summarized the evidence,
as appears from his certificate, thus:.
"The testimony shows, and I so find, that on the 9th day of
February, 1900, the bankrupt, Edward B. Nugent, borrowed
from George L. Erbach and Frank Hohmann, executors, the
sum of $4500, and as security therefor executed a mortgage
upon the house and lot of land owned by said Edward B. Nugent, in the city of Louisville; that after paying the taxes and
expenses of procuring the loan there remained from said sum
so borrowed the sum of $4133.45; that on said day the said
balance of $4133.45 was delivered to said W. T. Nugent as
the agent of the bankrupt, and the said amount has not been
accounted for to the trustee in bankruptcy herein.
"I further certify that on the 19th day of February, 1900
before the hour of 2 o'clock P. m., being more than three hours
before the petition praying for an adjudication of said Edward
B. Nugent as bankrupt was filed in the clerk's office of said
court, the stock of merchandise belonging to the bankrupt was
sold to one Hermann Straus for the sum of $12,000, and on said
19th day of February, 1900, and before the hour of 2 o'clock
r. m., the said $12,000 was paid to said bankrupt by said Hermann Straus, in the form of a check on the German Bank of
Louisville, Ky.; that said bankrupt endorsed his name across
the said check and delivered the same to said W. T. Nugent, his
son, as his agent; that said W. T. Nugent received the cash
upon said check on that day before the hour of 2 o'clock r. m.,
and paid therefrom the sum of $1900 for rental on the building where said stock was located and the expenses of making
the sale, leaving the sum of $10,100, which then and there still
remained in the hands of said W. T. Nugent as the agent of
said bankrupt.

OCTOBER TERM

1901.

Statement of the Case.

"I further find that both of said balances, to wit, $4133.45
and $10,100, belonged to the said bankrupt and became and
still are the property of Arthur E. Mueller, trustee in bankruptcy in this cause, and that said W. T. Nugent holds the
same as agent or bailee only, and that he has not accounted
for any part of said sums."
The referee entered an order on the same day, October 16,
1900, omitting preliminary recitals, as follows:
"And after hearing counsel, now therefore it is ordered and
adjudged that the said response to the rule aforesaid be and the
same is hereby held insufficient; and it appearing from the evidence in this cause that there came to the hands of W. T. Nugent $4133.45, being the net proceeds realized from the mortgage executed by the bankrupt upon his house and lot in the
city of Louisville, and that there also came to the hands of said
W. T. Nugent the further sum of $10,100, being the net proceeds from the sale of the stock of merchandise sold to Herman
Straus-the first of said sums having come to the hands of said
W. T. Nugent as the agent of the bankrupt on February 9th,
1900, and the second sum, to wit, $10,100, having come to the
hands of the said W. T. Nugent as the agent of the bankrupt on
February 19th, 1900, before the hour of 2 o'clock P. m., on said
day, and it further appearing that the petition of the Wayne
Knitting Mills and others, praying that the said Edward B.
Nugent may be adjudged a bankrupt, was filed in the office of
the clerk of the above-styled court on February 19th, 1900, at
5 o'clock P. M., and it appearing that said W. T. Nugent has
failed to pay over said sums, or any part thereof, to the trustee
in bankruptcy herein, and that said sums are the property of
the bankrupt, Edward B. Nugent, and belong to said trustee as
part of said estate, it is ordered that said rule be and the same
is hereby made absolute to the amount of said two sums aggregating the sum of $14,233.45.
"It is further ordered that said W. T. Nugent be and he is
hereby required to pay to Arthur E. Mueller, trustee in bankruptcy in this cause, on or before 9:30 o'clock A. M. on October 17th, 1900, the said aggregate sum of $14,233.45."
Thereupon, October 17, William T. Nugent filed his petition

MUELLER v. NUGENT.
Statement of the Case.

that the order of October 16 might be reviewed by the District
Judge, and the referee made his certificate of the proceedings
and the foregoing summary of the evidence, the depositions put
in before him being returned therewith, concluding: "And the
said question, to wit, the validity of the said order of October 16th, 1900, above set forth in full, is certified to the judge
for his opinion thereon."
The referee also reported that William T. Nugent had failed
to comply with the order in whole or in part; that he was in
contempt of court; and recommended "that he be punished for
contempt and committed to prison until he shall have paid to
the said trustee the said sum of $14,233.45."
The record of the District Court shows that on the 1st day of
November the cause came on to be heard on the petition of
William T. Nugent for a review of the order of court entered
by the referee requiring said Nugent to pay over, and the certification of the referee, and his recommendation that said Nugent be punished for contempt, and that the court being fully
advised delivered a written opinion, which was ordered filed,
whereupon William T. Nugent moved the court to postpone the
entry of judgment until November 3, and it was so ordered.
The District Judge stated the facts at length; pointed out
that the response was put upon two grounds, namely, that the
court and referee were without jurisdiction, and that respondent had been indicted; held that as to the indictment, it was not
an indictment for disobedience to the order, but under § 29 of
the bankrupt act; that exculpation could not criminate; that
he could have denied receiving or concealing the money, or paid
it into court, but he had done neither; that he had the money
and that it belonged to the estate; that the response really
rested on the denial of jurisdiction; and that the referee had
the power to order the money to be surrendered. The matter
was summed up in these words:
"The respondent has the money in his hands as agent or
bailee only. His possession is that of his principal. His principal was his father, up to a certain stage of these proceedings;
but whether up to the filing of the petition, or up to the adjudication, we need not stop to inquire, as it is immaterial in this

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

case. At one or the other of those times his principal, by operation of law, was changed, and an officer of this court was substituted for his father. That change in no way lessened the
duty of paying the money to the proper principal upon notice
and demand. After the change, however, the money was potentially in the custody of the law in these proceedings, and
subject to the orders of the court. The rule and its service
constituted sufficient notice and demand. The order made was
that the respondent should pay the money to the proper officer. Disobedience of that order is made punishable as a contempt by the express provisions of the act.
"The court, therefore, has jurisdiction of the person and of
the subject matter. The rulings of the referee appear to be
right, and are approved and confirmed, and his recommendation as to punishing the respondent for the contempt adjudged
will be acted upon with appropriate vigor.
"The judgment of the court, in the exercise of its statutory
discretion, will be that the respondent, W. T. Nugent, for his
contempt aforesaid, be imprisoned in the county jail until he
shall deliver to Arthur E. Mueller, the trustee, said sum of
$14,233.45, and the court will reserve the right to suspend or
set aside this judgment and sentence upon the delivery and payment of the money as ordered."

Wayne Knitting .Mills v.

urgent, 104 Fed. Rep. 530.
On the third of November the respondent Nugent asked leave
to file an amended response, stating that he had not made full
response as to the entire facts because the referee had held he
could not be examined as to transactions involved in the indictment, and denying that the $14,233.45, or any part thereof,
was now in his possession or under his control, or was on October 8, 1900, and saying "that neither at the time of the filing
of the petition in bankruptcy herein against E. B. Nugent, or
at any time subsequent thereto, did he have in his hands any
amount of money belonging to said Nugent which he held as
his agent or bailee. He says that whatever money came to
his hands on February 19,1900, belonging to said E. B. Nugent,
or any such money at any subsequent date thereto, was not received or held by this respondent as agent or bailee, or in any

MUELLER v. NUGENT.
Statement of the Case.

trust capacity whatever, but was held adversely to said E. B.
Nugent."
The District Court would not permit the proposed amendment to be filed, and entered this order:
"Came William T. Nugent, respondent herein, and tendered
an amended response, and moved to file same, and the court
not having postponed the imposing of the sentence for that purpose, and being of opinion that it is not discreet or admissible
practice to permit amendments upon hearings such as this,
especially after the delivery of an opinion of the court, declines
at this stage of the proceedings to permit a further response to
be filed.
"And thereupon, pursuant to the opinion of the court, filed
herein on the 1st instant, it is the judgment of the court that
William T. Nugent, for his contempt aforesaid, be imprisoned
and confined in the county jail of Jefferson County, Kentucky,
until he shall deliver or pay to Arthur E. Mueller, the trustee
herein, said sum of $14,233.45, or otherwise satisfy the said
trustee with respect thereto, and the court reserves the right
and power to suspend or set aside the judgment and sentence
upon the delivery, payment or satisfaction aforesaid."
Thereafter William T. Nugent filed a petition for review,
under subdivision b, section 24, of the act, in the Circuit Court
of Appeals, praying "that the orders, judgments, and sentence
of the District Court be reviewed and revised in the matters of
law, so as to adjudge that your petitioner be released and discharged," or "that he be permitted to further respond in said
matter."
This petition alleged error in that the District Court held
that the referee and the court had jurisdiction to proceed
against petitioner in a summary way; that the court had jurisdiction on the proceedings and recommendations of the referee
to punish petitioner for contempt; that the referee had power
to grant the injunction against petitioner, or to proceed on rule
to show cause; that the response was insufficient; that the
facts were that the money belonged to the bankrupt's estate
and was held by petitioner as the bankrupt's agent, and was
not claimed adversely; that the amended response should not

OCTOBER TERI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

be filed; that the petitioner was properly before the court;
and that the contempt proceedings should not be dismissed and
petitioner discharged.
The amended response was attached as an exhibit to this
petition, although it had not been filed in the District Court or
made part of the record there by certificate of exceptions or
order of identification, and the petition also set up several
matters and exhibits which apparently were not before the
referee or the District Court in the proceeding. The trustee
moved to expunge these various matters and exhibits.
To expedite the hearing this motion was reserved, and it was
stipulated that "such affirmative allegations of said petition
for review as properly should be denied be treated as controverted of record without prejudice to the hearing of 'said
motion."
The Circuit Court of Appeals, December 13, 1900, filed a
memorandum opinion, and entered judgment reversing the decree of the District Court, with directions to that court to
vacate the order of the referee on respondent to show cause
and his order adjudging respondent to be in contempt thereof,
and that respondent be discharged from imprisonment. An extended opinion was subsequently filed. 105 Fed. Rep. 581.
The writ of certiorari was then granted by this court. 180
U. S. 640.
ilr. William WF Watts for Mueller. .M'. John Richard
Watts was on his brief.
.XA&.
. . Smith for Nugent submitted on his brief, on
which was also JlL..Fred. Forcht, Jr.
MR.

CHIEF JusTIcE

FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.

General order in bankruptcy XXVII (172 U. S. 662), provides: "When a bankrupt, creditor, trustee, or other person
shall desire a review by the judge, of any order made by the
referee, he shall file with the referee his petition therefor, setting
out the error complained of; and the referee shall forthwith

MUELLER v. NUGENT.
Opinion of the Court.

certify to the judge the question presented, a summary of the
evidence relating thereto, and the finding and order of the
referee thereon."
Respondent accordingly filed his petition for a review of the
order of October 16. The referee thereupon certified to the
judge the question presented, a summary of the evidence relating
thereto, and the finding and order of the referee thereon. He
pursued in so doing Form No. 56 of the Forms in Bankruptcy.
172 U. S. '718. The question certified was "the validity of the
said order of October 16, 1900, above set forth in full." At
the same time the referee reported the disobedience of William
T. Nugent and recommended that he be committed. No exception was taken before the referee or the District Court to
the sufficiency of the trustee's application, or to the adequacy
of the certificate, and the entire evidence was transmitted.
Subdivision b of section 24 of the act of July 1, 1898, c. 541,
30 Stat. 544, 553, provides: "The several Circuit Courts of Appeals shall have jurisdiction in equity, either interlocutory or
final, to superintend or revise in matter of law the proceedings
of the several inferior courts of bankruptcy within their jurisdiction."
The District Court affirmed .the order of October 16, and
ordered respondent to be committed for his failure to comply
therewith, and thereupon respondent filed in the Circuit Court
of Appeals his petition for review. The matters of law to be
passed on by that court were the validity of the order of October 16, as affirmed by the District Court, and the correctness
of the order of commitment. And these were to be determined
on the record of the District Court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals had in prior cases recognized
the general proposition that those courts are confined on petitions for review to matters of law arising on the record of the
courts below, and may well have assumed that there was no
necessity for a specific ruling on the motion to expunge the new
matter accompanying the petition in this instance. Cunningham v. German Insurance Bank, 103 Fed. Rep. 932; CourierJTournal Printing Co. v. Schaefer-Heyer Brewing Co., 101 Fed.
Rep. 699. The record of the District Court in respect of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

order of October 16 was the record made before the referee,
who had certified the question of the validity of the order at
the request of respondent, and to the adequacy of whose certificate respondent had made no objection as heretofore said.
It is true that after the decision of the District Court was
announced, and the final order was about to be entered, the entry
of the order was suspended, on the application of the respondent, for two days, and that then the respondent undertook, by
way of amendment, to set up a denial that he held the money
as the bankrupt's agent, or bailee, and to assert that he held adversely to him. The District Court refused to allow the amendment to be made at that stage of the proceedings, and we do
not understand that the Court of Appeals held that the District
Court abused its discretion in so refusing.
At an earlier stage perhaps this ruling might have been controlled by the rules of equity practice adopted by this court, but
that would not be so after hearing had been had, the decision
of the court had been announced, and judgment was about to be
entered.
The respondent had denied the jurisdiction on the ground
that he had not received the money, or any part of it, after the
petition in bankruptcy was filed. When the matter came on
to be heard on the rule to pay over, respondent agreed that the
enumerated depositions might be read, reserving his exceptions
to the jurisdiction. He then carried the matter to the District
Court, and after it was decided, sought to amend his response
to the rule by asserting that whatever money belonging to the
bankrupt came to his hands was not received as agent of but
was held adversely to the bankrupt. He did not even then set
forth what money he had received, and how and when it came
to his hands, or the circumstances under which he claimed to
hold it adversely, but put forward simply a conclusion of law.
The District Court held it not admissible practice to permit such
an amendment at that stage, that is, that the application came
too late, after the case had been heard and determined and a written opinion had been delivered and filed; and the District Judge
may have considered it a mere subterfuge in evasion of the effect
of the decision, or that the proposed amendment was insufficient.

MUELLER v. NUGENT.
Opinion of the Court.

If the proposed amended response be treated as properly before
us, we agree that the orders under consideration ought not to
be disturbed because of this ruling made in the competent exercise of judicial discretion. And, moreover, respondent did iot
ask to plead over before the referee, but had the case certified
to the judge as it stood.
Among the definitions set forth in section 1 of the bankruptcy
act are these: "' Court' shall mean the court of bankruptcy in
which the proceedings are pending, and may include the referee;" "' judge' shall mean a judge of a court of bankruptcy,
not including the referee; " "'refereeI shall mean the referee
who has jurisdiction of the case or to whom the case has been
referred, or any one acting in his stead."
By section 2, courts of bankruptcy are vested with power to
"(6) bring in and substitute additional persons or parties in
proceedings in bankruptcy when necessary for the complete
determination of a matter in controversy; ('[) cause the estates
of bankrupts to be collected, reduced to money and distributed,
and determine controversies in relation thereto, except as herein
otherwise provided; (10) consider and confirm, modify or overrule, or return, with instructions for further proceedings, records
and findings certified to them by referees; (13) enforce obedience by bankrupts, officers, and other persons to all lawful
orders, by fine or imprisonment, or fine and imprisonment;
(15) make such orders, issue such process, and enter such judgments in addition to those specifically provided for as may be
necessary for the enforcement of the provisions of this act;
(16) punish persons for contempts committed before referees."
Section 36 provides that "referees shall take the same oath
of office as that prescribed for judges of United States courts."
Section 38, that referees shall have jurisdiction to "(4) perform such part of the duties, except as to questions arising out
of the applications of bankrupts for compositions or discharges,
as are by this act conferred on courts of bankruptcy and as
shall be prescribed by rules or orders of the courts of bankruptcy of their respective districts, except as herein otherwise
provided."
And section 39, that among other duties of referees, they

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

shall "(5) make up records embodying the evidence, or the
substance thereof, as agreed upon by the parties in all contested
matters arising before them, whenever requested to do so by
either of the parties thereto, together with their findings therein,
and transmit them to the judges."
Section 41 provides that "a person shall not, in proceedings
before a referee, (1) disobey or resist any lawful order, process,
or writ;" and that "1b The referee shall certify the facts to
the judge, if any person shall do any of the things forbidden in
this section. The judge shall thereupon, in a summary manner,
hear the evidence as to the acts complained of, and, if it is such
as to warrant him in so doing, punish such person in the same
manner and to the same extent as for a contempt committed
before the court of bankruptcy, or commit such person upon
the same conditions as if the doing of the forbidden act had occurred with reference to the process of, or in the presence of,
the court."
General Order XII provides that after the order of reference
reaches the referee, "all the proceedings, except such as are
required by the act or by these general orders to be had before
the judge, shall be bad before the referee."
General Order XXIII is: "In all orders made by a referee,
it shall be recited, according as the fact may be, that notice
was given and the manner thereof ; or that the order was made
by consent; or that no adverse interest was represented at the
hearing; or that the order was made after hearing adverse
interests."
And we repeat General Order XXVII: "When a bankrupt,
creditor, trustee, or other person shall desire a review by the
judge of any order made by the referee, he shall file with the
referee his petition therefor setting out the error complained
of; and the referee shall forthwith certify to the judge the
question presented, a summary of the evidence relating thereto,
and the finding and order of the referee thereon."
No objection was made before the referee or the District
Court, to the authority of the referee as such, to entertain these
proceedings; to enter the order to show cause and thereby to
bring in William T. Nugent; and to enter the order of Octo-

MUELLER v. NUGENT.
Opinion of the Court.

ber 16; and we do not find that the act or the general orders
are to the contrary.
It is now said that the only power the referee has to direct
the taking possession of property is given by subsection three
of section 38a, providing that the referee may exercise the
powers of the judge in that respect on a certificate of the clerk
that the judge is absent or unable to act. "But that provision
seems to refer only to the seizure of property by the marshal
or a receiver prior to adjudication and the qualification of the
trustee as provided by section 2, section 3e, and section 69, and
it is at all events inapplicable here.
'Wethink the referee has the power to act in the first instance in matters such as this, when the case has been referred,
and'in aid of the court of bankruptcy, and exercises in such
cases "much of the judicial authority of that court." White v.
Schloerb, 178 U. S. 542. By petition for review the matter
can be carried to the bankruptoy court and the entire record
and findings laid before that tribunal as was done here.
And if the order of October 16 was in itself a lawful order,
the power of the District Court to commit William T. Nugent
until he surrendered the money to the trustee, or otherwise
satisfied the trustee with respect thereto, was unquestionable
under the express provisions of the bankruptcy act in that behalf, as well as the general jurisdiction of the court to enforce
its orders in the collection of assets.
It is objected that the order of commitment was invalid because it did not run in the name of the United States. This
objection was not made below; nor was this an attachment.
It was an order to detain Nugent until he complied with an
order made in a proceeding in equity under the bankrupt act.
The objection is untenable. Nor was the cQmmitment imprisonment for debt, as also contended. The order to pay over
the money was not an order for the payment of a debt, but an
order for the surrender of assets of the bankrupt placed in custodia legis by the adjudication.
The real question was whether the order of October 16, as
confirmed by the District Court, was a lawful order. It was
to be determined as a mere question of law on the facts found

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

that the money belonged to the bankrupt's estate, and was then
in Nugent's possession as the bankrupt's agent, he asserting no
adverse claim. And the question of the validity of that order
involved the validity of the order to show cause.
The proposition was that, as matter of law, where property
of a bankrupt has come into the hands of a third party before
the filing of the petition in bankruptcy, as the agent of the
bankrupt, and to which he asserts no adverse claim, the bankruptcy court has no power by summary proceedings to compel
the surrender of the property to the trustee in bankruptcy duly
appointed.
In other words, the question reduces itself to this: Has the
bankruptcy court the power to compel the bankrupt, or his
agent, to deliver up money or other assets of the bankrupt, in
his possession or that of some one for him, on petition and rule
to show cause? Does a mere refusal by the bankrupt or his
agent so to deliver up oblige the trustee to resort to a plenary
suit in the Circuit Court or a state court, as the case may be?
If it be so, the grant of jurisdiction to cause the estates of
bankrupts to be collected, and to determine controversies relating thereto, would be seriously impaired, and, in many respects,
rendered practically inefficient.
The bankruptcy court would be helpless indeed if the bare
refusal to turn over could conclusively operate to drive the trustee to an action to recover as for an indebtedness, or a conversion, or to proceedings in chancery, at the risk of the accompaniments of delay, complication, and expense, intended to be
avoided by the simpler methods of the bankrupt law.
It is as true of the present law as it was of that of 1867, that
the filing of the petition is a caveat to all the world, and in
effect an attachment and injunction, Bank v. Sherman, 101
7U. S. 403 ; and on adjudication, title to the bankrupt's property
became vested in the trustee, §§ 70, 21 e, with actual or constructive possession, and placed in the custody of the bankruptcy
court.
There was no pretence that at the date of the filing of this
petition in bankruptcy this money of the bankrupt, $4133.45
of which had been collected a few days, and $10,100, a few

MUELLER v. NUGENT.
Opinion of the Court.

hours, before, was held subject to any adverse claim, or that the
right or title thereto had been passed over to another.
The position now taken amounts to no more than to assert
that a mere refusal to surrender constitutes an adverse holding
in fact and therefore an adverse claim when the petition was
filed, and to that we cannot give our assent.
But suppose that respondent had asserted that he had the
right to possession by reason of a claim adverse to the bankrupt, the bankruptcy court had the power to ascertain whether
any basis for such a claim actually existed at the time of the
filing of the petition. The court would have been bound to
enter upon that inquiry, and in doing so would have undoubtedly acted within its jurisdiction, while its conclusion might
have been that an adverse claim, not merely colorable, but real
even though fraudulent and voidable, existed in fact, and so
that it must decline to finally adjudicate on the merits. If it
erred in its ruling either way, its action would be subject to
review.
In this case, however, respondent asserted no right or title
to the property before the referee, and the circumstances under
which he held possession must be accepted as found by the referee and the District Court.
The decisions of this court under the present law sustain the
validity of the action we are considering.
In Bag-des v. Hawarden Bank, 178 U. S. 524, the question
related to the jurisdiction of the District Court over suits brought
by trustees in bankruptcy to set aside fraudulent transfers of
money or property made by the bankrupt to third parties before the institution of proceedings in bankruptcy. The court
said: " H ad there been no bankruptcy proceedings, the bankrupt might have brought suit in any state court of competent
jurisdiction; or, if there was a sufficient jurisdictional amount,
and the requisite diversity of citizenship existed, or the case
arose under the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United
States, he could have brought suit in the Circuit Court of the
United States. He could not have sued in a District Court of
the United States, because such a court has no jurisdiction of
suits at law or in equity between private parties, except where,

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

by special provision of an act of Congress, a District Court has
the powers of a Circuit Court, or is given jurisdiction of a particular class of civil suits." And it was held that Congress, by
the second clause of section 23 of the bankruptcy act, had manifested its intention "that controversies, not strictly or properly
part of the proceedings in bankruptcy, but independent suits
brought by the trustee in bankruptcy to assert a title to money
or property as assets of the bankrupt against strangers to those
proceedings, should not come within the jurisdiction of the
District Courts of the United States, ' unless by consent of the
proposed defendant.'" The court was dealing there with a suit
of the trustee against a third party to recover property fraudulently transferred to him by the bankrupt before the filing of
the petition in bankruptcy, and which the third party claimed
as his own.
In TMhite v. Schloerb, 178 U. S. 542, where, after an adjudication in bankruptcy and reference of the case to a referee, and
before the appointment of a trustee, the referee had taken possession of the bankrupt's stock of goods in a store, a writ of
replevin of part of the goods was sued out by third persons
against the bankrupt from a state court and executed by the
sheriff forcibly entering the store and taking possession of the
goods, it was held that the District Court of the United States,
sitting in bankruptcy, had jurisdiction by summary proceedings
to compel the return of the property seized.
In Bryan v. Bernheimer, 181 U. S. 188, Abraham, nine days
before the filing of a petition in bankruptcy against him, made
a general assignment to Davidson of all of his property for the
benefit of his creditors. After the filing of the petition Davidson sold the property to Bernheimer. After the adjudication
in bankruptcy and before the appointment of a trustee, the petitioning creditors applied to the court for an order to the marshal to take possession of the property, alleging that this was
necessary for the interest of the bankrupt's creditors. The court
ordered that the marshal take possession, and that notice be
given to the purchaser to appear in ten days and propound his
claim to the property, or failing to do so, be decreed to have no
right in it. The purchaser came in and propounded his claim,

MUELLER v. NUGENT.
Opinion of the Court.

stating that he bought the property for cash in good faith of
the assignee, and praying that the creditors be remitted to their
claim against the assignee for the price, or that the price be ordered to be paid by the assignee into court and paid over to the
purchaser, who thereupon offered to rescind the purchase and
waive all further claim to the property. This court held that
the summary proceeding was properly entertained; that the
purchaser had no title in the property superior to the bankrupt's
estate; and that the equities between him and the creditors
might be determined by the District Court, bringing in the assignee if necessary. In that case it was observed that the remark in Bardes v. Bank, that the powers conferred on the
courts of bankruptcy after the filing of a petition in bankruptcy,
and in case it was necessary for the preservation of the, property of the bankrupt to authorize receivers or the marshals to
take charge of it untila trustee" was appointed, "'can hardly
be considered as authorizing the forcible seizure of such property in the possession of an adverse claimant,' was an inadvertence, and upon a question not arising in the case then before
the court, which related exclusively to jurisdiction of a suit by
the trustee after his appointment." The court also said: "Th 'e
general assignment, made by Abraham to Davidson, did not
constitute Davidson an assignee for value, but simply made him
an agent of Abraham for the distribution of the proceeds of the
property among Abraham's creditors." And. further. "Th e
,present case involves no question of jurisdiction over a suit by
a trustee against a person claiming an adverse interest in himself."
In the case before us, William T. Nugent held this money as
the agent of his father, the bankrupt, and without any claim of
adverse interest in himself. If it was competent to deal with
Davidson, the assignee in the case of Bryan v. Bernheimer, by
summary proceeding, William T. Nugent could be dealt with
in the same way,
The cases are indeed different, for Bernheimer, the purchaser,
submitted himself to the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court
and the sale was after petition filed, but nevertheless, sb fr.as
the question of subjecting a mere volunteer in possession of asVOL. oLXXxIv-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.

Syllabus.
sets belonging to the bankrupt's estate to the control of that
court by summary proceedings is concerned, the ruling in Bernheimer'8 case is in point.
We are of opinion that the order of October 16 was a lawful
order. In arriving at that conclusion we have confined ourselves to the record of the District Court. If in the effort to
escape the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court, that record is
not in a condition as favorable to respondent as the actual facts
might have justified, he has only himself to thank for it; but,
lest any injustice should be done, the judgment will be:
Decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed decree and
order of the District Courtaffirmed ; andcause remanded to

the latter court with liberty to take suchfurtherproeedings
as it may be advised.

LOUISVILLE TRUST COMPANY v. COMINGOR
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR

THE

SIXTH

CIRCUIT.

No. 309. Submitted April 29, 1901.-Decided January 27,1902.
A general assignment for the benefit of creditors had been made under the
statutes of Kentucky in that behalf and a suit involving the administration and settlement of the assigned estate was pending in the state Circuit Court, when a petition in bankruptcy was filed against the assign
ors, to which the assignee was made defendant, although no special
relief was prayed for as against him, but an injunction was granted
restraining all the defendants from taking any steps affecting the estate,
and especially in the suit pending in the state court. The assignee had
paid into court in that suit a considerable amount of money, which, gn
the trustee in bankruptcy becoming a party to the suit, had been paid
over to him by order of the state court.
Rules were laid on the assignee by the referee in the bankruptcy proceedings to show cause why he should not pay over the sums of $3398.90
and of $3200, alleged to belong to the bankrupts' estate, in response to
which the assignee showed as cause that he had paid the $3200 to
counsel for services rendered to him as assignep, and had retained and
expended the $3398.90 as his own commissions asa Uch, all before the

