342

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Statement of the Case.

313 U. S.

HOLIDAY v. JOHNSTON, WARDEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 14, original. Argued May 5, 6, 1941.-Decided May 26, 1941.
1. The erroneous imposition of two sentences for a single offense of
which the accused has been convicted, or as to which he has pleaded
guilty, does not constitute double jeopardy. P. 349.
2. A prisoner while serving a valid sentence can not by habeas corpus
attack a second sentence for the same offense timed to begin at the
end of the first, although the second must be vacated before he can
apply for parole under the first. P. 349.
His remedy is to apply for vacation of the sentence and for a
re-sentence in conformity with the statute under which he was
adjudged guilty.
3. Petitions for habeas corpus are not to be regarded meticulously;
and, even if insufficient in substance, may be amended in the interest
of justice. P. 350.
In the present instance, the district judge, by regarding the petition, traverse, and return as making issues of fact justifying the
taking of evidence, did not abuse his discretion.
4. Under the habeas corpus statute, the district judge must himself
hear the prisoner's testimony and in the light of it and other testimony must find the facts and base his disposition of the case upon
his findings. P. 351.
A practice of commanding that the prisoner be taken before a
Commissioner to take evidence and report and of disposing of the
case upon the record made before the Commissioner, can not be
sustained because of its convenience or because it is a practice of
long standing which has found its place in a rule of court.
5. Rule 53 of the Rules of Civil Procedure dealing with references to
Masters, has no application to habeas corpus cases. P. 353.
Reversed.

312 U. S. 673, to review an order refusing
a petition for leave to appeal in forma pauperis from a
judgment of the District Court discharging a writ of habeas
corpus.
CERTIORARI,

HOLIDAY v. JOHNSTON.
342

Argument for Petitioner.

Mr. CharlesA. Horsky for petitioner.
The Court has jurisdiction (In re 620 Church Street
Corp., 299 U. S. 24, 26), and also the power to proceed
in forma pauperis. 28 U. S. C. 832. Even though the
technical issue before the Court may be only whether the
Circuit Court of Appeals abused its discretion in denying
an appeal in forma pauperis, nevertheless, for many reasons, the Court should now pass on the merits of the issues
raised.
The writ was not valid. It did not comply with the
provisions of the statute requiring the production of the
petitioner "before the judge who granted the writ," R. S.
§ 758, nor with the requirement that the judge shall determine the facts by hearing the testimony. R. S. § 761.
A United States commissioner has not a judge's authority. Grin v. Shine, 187 U. S. 181, distinguished.
The procedure of a commissioner's report is completely
inconsistent with the policy expressed in recent decisions
of this Court.
Rule 53 of the Rules of Civil Procedure is not applicable.
Even if the reference to a special master in habeas corpus proceedings is proper, the Court should not sanction
the manner in which the device was utilized here. The
hearing was held in prison-certainly pot "judicial" procedure. The commissioner based his decision on plain
errors of law, which are demonstrably prejudicial and not
cured by the District Court. The District Court made no
findings of fact. The hearing on the "approval" of the
report was apparently ex parte.
On the facts stated, there is plainly a denial of the
assistance of counsel guaranteed in the Fifth and Sixth
Amendments to the Constitution.
The case is controlled by Walker v. Johnston, 312 U. S.
275, and Johnsonv. Zerbst, 304 U. S. 458.
That the consecutive sentences punish petitioner twice
for the same offense is admitted by the Government. The

344

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Respondent.

313 U. S.

question of which sentence is valid is properly before the
Court, inasmuch as it must be determined in order to
decide whether the petition is in this respect premature.
That question must be resolved against the validity of
the fifteen-year sentence on the second count.
Mr. Herbert Wechsler, with whom Assistant Solicitor
General Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Berge, and
Mr. Alfred B. Teton were on the brief, for respondent.
The petition and traverse stated no case for the issuance
of the writ. The petition for the writ attacked the legality
of the detention on two grounds: (1) that the cumulative
sentences on the two counts constituted double jeopardy;
and (2) that the judgment was in conflict with the Sixth
Amendment because the right to counsel was denied. The
traverse alleges no new facts and makes no additional
contentions. The petition was premature on the first
ground; and, on the second, the facts alleged are legally
insufficient to entitle the petitioner to relief. Hence,
there was no occasion to issue a writ of habeas corpus
(Walker v. Johnston, 312 U. S. 275) and the application
was properly dismissed.
The procedure was equivalent to a reference to the
commissioner to hear and report the testimony, with
findings of fact and conclusions of law.
The procedure was in keeping with the historic practice of the federal courts for California. The reference
of issues of fact arising in habeas corpus proceedings to
a United States commissioner to hear the evidence and
report findings originated long ago as a response to the
tremendous number of petitions filed in Chinese exclusion
cases. Decisions of the period refer to such references
as "the established practice" of the District Court.
We are not aware that it was ever questioned, though
it was followed in at least two cases which reached this
Court. Cf., Nishimura Ekiu v. United States, 142 U. S.
651,652, 656; UnitedStates v. Ju Toy, 198 U. S. 253, 264.

HOLIDAY v. JOHNSTON.
342

Argument for Respondent.

The federal courts in California have referred issues
of fact to commissioners in habeas corpus cases for more
than fifty years and the issuance of a writ returnable before a commissioner is a traditional equivalent of such
an order of reference.
The statutory command that the court "shall proceed
in a summary way to determine the facts of the case, by
hearing the testimony and arguments" does not preclude
a reference to a master to hear and report the testimony
with his findings of fact and conclusions of law-so
long as the actual adjudication is made by the court.
The equity practice is peculiarly persuasive in the present context because in England-at least since the Habeas
Corpus Act (31 Car. II, c. 2)-the writ of habeas corpus
issued out of chancery as well as the law courts. Cf.
People ex rel. Woodbury v. Hendrick, 215 N. Y. 339, 346.
The analogy of equity has been observed by this Court.
Storti v. Massachusetts, 183 U. S. 138, 143.; see also Ex
parte Royall, 117 U. S. 241, 251. If a reference were impossible under the statute, it is difficult to see how this
Court could ever practically exercise its power to issue an
original writ of habeas corpus if issues of fact were involved. The mandate of the statute "is applicable to
this Court whether it is exercising its original or appellate
jurisdiction." Storti v. Massachusetts, supra.
There is English precedent, and prior to the federal
statute, for ordering a reference (The Case of the Hottentot Venus, 13 East 194); the practice of taking the verdict
of a jury appears to be more common. In the Matter of
Andrews, 8 Q. B. 153, 160; Re Guerin, 60 L. T. 538, 542n.;
Re Gibson, 15 Ont. L. R. 245, 247; see In re Hakewill, 12
C. B. 223, 228. Both practices have been followed in the
state courts, especially, though not exclusively, in infant
custody cases. Neither has been regarded as detracting
from a judicial inquiry into the facts or the function of a
habeas corpus hearing.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Respondent.

313 U. S.

The use of a master or commissioner is not precluded in
other proceedings which may terminate in punishment,
notably in the case of contempt. Cf., United States v.
Shipp, 214 U. S. 386; Chin Bak Kan v. United States,
186 U. S. 193, 200; Ng Fung Ho v. White, 259 U. S. 276,
279.
If a reference is not incompatible with the habeas corpus statute, the power to refer exists in the inherent power
of federal courts "to provide themselves with appropriate
instruments required for the performance of their duties"
(Ex parte Peterson, 253 U. S. 300, 312), a power broadly
articulated in Rule 53 (a) of the Rules of Civil Procedure.
There was no objection to the reference to the Commissioner either at the hearing or in court. Under these
circumstances, it is certainly too late to challenge the
action of the court on a matter peculiarly within its discretion.
Moreover, there is an "exceptional condition" well
known to the District Court. From June 1, 1938 to April
1, 1941, there were 131 petitions for writs of habeas corpus
filed in the Northern District of California by prisoners
in Alcatraz Penitentiary, 75 based upon the decision in
Johnson v. Zerbst, 304 U. S. 458, and 3 upon the decision
in Walker v. Johnston, 312 U. S. 275. Prisoners are sent
to Alcatraz only if they are regarded as custodial problems,
requiring maximum security. The hazards of escape are
great and require unusual precautions for safe custody.
See Federal Offenders (1938) p. 95; ibid. (1939) p. 30;
Annual Report of the Attorney General (1935) p. 151.
These considerations constitute an "exceptional condition"
and would, in our view, justify an order of reference.
Nothing in Rule 53 (b) indicates that the "exceptional
condition" must appear of record when it is within the
knowledge of the court.
The procedure did not otherwise deprive the petitioner
of any substantial right.

HOLIDAY v. JOHNSTON.
342

347

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the Court.

The petitioner applied to the District Court for the
Northern District of California for a writ of habeascorpus.
His petition alleged that he was unlawfully detained by
the respondent in Alcatraz Penitentiary; that he had been
indicted in the District Court for North Dakota under an
Act of May 18, 1934, §2,1 the indictment being in two
counts, one for robbery of an insured bank and the other
for jeopardizing the lives of officials of the bank in the
course of the robbery; that he pleaded guilty to both
counts and was sentenced to ten years under the first and
to fifteen years under the second, "commencing at the
expiration of the sentence imposed under count one." The
petition charged that he was unlawfully detained because
he was tried without the advice and assistance of counsel,
was ignorant of his right to have counsel although unable
to pay for an attorney, was not advised by the court that
he was entitled to counsel, and was unable to, and did
not, intelligently waive his constitutional right to have
counsel. The petition alleged that the two counts of the
indictment charged but one offense and that the petitioner
was placed in double jeopardy by the imposition of the
consecutive sentences.
The court issued a rule on the respondent to show cause
why a writ should not issue. The respondent made return
showing that the petitioner was held under a commitment
issued pursuant to his conviction upon the indictment in
question. He attached a certificate of the judge who
imposed the sentence, attesting to his uniform practice of
inquiring of prisoners charged with felony whether they
wanted counsel and his firm belief that he so inquired of
the petitioner, and the affidavit of a deputy marshal to
the effect that petitioner said he did not desire counsel.
Petitioner filed a traverse in which he denied that the
148

Stat. 783, 12 U. S. C. § 588b.

348

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

trial judge had interrogated him as stated and denied
that he had made the alleged statement to the deputy
marshal. The district judge issued a writ commanding
the respondent to produce the petitioner before a commissioner of the District Court at the Alcatraz prison on
a day named. This was done and the commissioner
there took the petitioner's testimony and later received
the depositions of two witnesses on behalf of the respondent. The commissioner submitted a report in which he
recited his proceedings, summarized the asserted grounds
for relief, made findings of fact, stated conclusions of
law, and recommended that the application be denied.
After hearing argument on the report the judge entered
an order discharging the writ.
The petitioner applied for leave to appeal in forma
pauperis. This was denied by an order which recited
that, so far as the petition was based on the alleged invalidity of the sentence on the second count of the indictment it was premature and, so far as it was grounded
on the deprivation of the assistance of counsel, the evidence sustained the finding of the commissioner that the
petitioner had competently and intelligently waived his
right to such assistance. Accordingly, the judge denied
an appeal for want of merit in the application.
The petitioner moved the Circuit Court of Appeals
for leave to appeal in forma pauperis, which was denied.
He then petitioned this Court for certiorari 2 and for
leave to proceed in forma pauperis. Both petitions were
granted and counsel was appointed to represent him in
this Court.
The burden of petitioner's complaint is that the procedure adopted by the District Court-that of a hearing before a commissioner and the disposition of the cause
on the record made before him-is a plain violation of
'We have jurisdiction under § 262 of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C.
§ 377; In re 620 Church Street Corporation,299 U. S. 24.

HOLIDAY v. JOHNSTON.
342

Opinion of the Court.

the Acts of Congress regulating the practice in habeas
corpus cases. In addition, he seeks a reversal of the
judgment on the ground that the sentence on the second count is void. He insists that he is entitled to a
decision to this effect so that he may apply for parole
under the sentence imposed on the first count.
The respondent argues that we need not consider
the question of the regularity of the hearing in habeas
corpus, since the petition should have been denied as
premature so far as it rested on the asserted illegality of
the sentence, and since the District Court should have
dismissed the petition for insufficiency of the allegations
concerning the denial of assistance of counsel.
1. The respondent admits that § 2 of the Act of May
18, 1934, supra, does not create two separate crimes but
prescribes alternative sentences for the same crime depending upon the manner of its perpetration. This concession, however, does not aid the petitioner. The erroneous imposition of two sentences for a single offense
of which the accused has been convicted, or as to which
he has pleaded guilty, does not constitute double jeopardy. And if, as the petitioner contends, the first sentence of ten years is valid and the second void, he is
no better off. Conceding, without deciding, that he is
right in saying the first sentence is the only valid one,
he has not served that sentence and is not entitled now
to be discharged from custody under it. He urges that
if the second sentence is adjudged void he will now be
entitled to apply for parole under the first. But we have
recently decided that habeas corpus cannot be awarded
to afford a prisoner such an opportunity.' His remedy is
to apply for vacation of the sentence and a resentence in
conformity to the statute under which he was adjudged
guilty.
'McNally v. Hill, 293 U. S. 131.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

2. The respondent's contention that we should affirm
the judgment because the petition for the writ insufficiently alleges a denial of constitutional right and fails

to rebut the presumption of regularity which attaches
to the record of petitioner's trial and conviction may be
shortly answered. A petition for habeas corpus ought
not to be scrutinized with technical nicety. Even if it
is insufficient in substance it may be amended in the
interest of justice. In the present instance, moreover,
the judge, by calling on the respondent to show cause,
adjudged that, in his view, the petition was sufficient
and, by referring the cause to a master, evinced a judgment that the petition, the return, and the traverse
made issues of fact justifying the taking of evidence.
These decisions did not constitute an abuse of discretion
and we will not review them.
3. The respondent insists that the petition was premature if the petitioner's claim that he was denied the assistance of counsel is without merit, but the contention is
pressed only if we find that no question as to such denial
is presented.
4. We come then to the serious question in the case.
Was the method of trial of the fact issues presented by
the pleadings in accordance with law?
Revised Statutes §§ 757, 758, and 761 " prescribe the
procedure to be followed. The first requires that "The
person to whom the writ is directed shall certify to the
court, or justice, or judge before whom it is returnable
the true cause of the detention of such party"; and the
second that: "The person making the return shall at the
same time bring the body of the party before the judge
who granted the writ." ' The third provides that: "The
'28 U. S. C. §§ 457, 458, 461.
Both these sections are derived from the Habeas Corpus Act of
February 5, 1867, c. 28, 14 Stat. 385. In the codification the language
of the original statute was altered to indicate that the return might

HOLIDAY v. JOHNSTON.
342

Opinion of the Court.

court, or justice, or judge shall proceed in a summary way
to determine the facts of the case, by hearing the testimony
and arguments, and thereupon to dispose of the party as
law and justice require."
It is plain, as the respondent concedes, that a commissioner is not a judge and that the command of the court's
writ that the petitioner appear before that officer was
not a literal compliance with the statute. The respondent argues, however, that the writ in effect referred the
cause to the commissioner as a master whose function was
to take the testimony and subnit it, together with his
findings and conclusions, for such action as the court might
take upon such submission. The argument runs that this
practice is in substance equivalent to a hearing before the
judge in his proper person, has long been followed in the
district courts in California, has not incurred the criticism
of this Court in cases brought here where it was followed,
is a convenient procedure, tends to expedite the disposition
of such cases, is in accordance with long standing equity
practice and is countenanced by Rule 53 (a) (b) of the
Rules of Civil Procedure.'
We cannot sanction a departure from the plain mandate
of the statute on any of the grounds advanced. We have
recently emphasized the broad and liberal policy adopted
by Congress respecting the office and use of the writ of
habeascorpus in the interest of the protection of individual
freedom to the end that the very truth and substance of
the cause of a person's detention may be disclosed and
justice be done.' The Congress has seen fit to lodge in
be made to the court, justice, or judge, whereas, in the original statute,
the provision is that the respondent "shall make return of said writ and
bring the party before the judge who granted the writ, and certify
the true cause of the detention of such person . . ." 14 Stat. 386.

Nothing in this case turns on the diversity between the language
employed in the statute and that found in the revision.
'28 U.S. C. following § 723c.
'Johnson v. Zerbst, 304 U. S. 458; Walker v. Johnston, 312 U. S. 275.

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

the judge the duty of investigation. One of the essential
elements of the determination of the crucial facts is the
weighing and appraising of the testimony. Plainly it
was intended that the prisoner might invoke the exercise
of this appraisal by the judge himself. We cannot say
that an appraisal of the truth of the prisoner's oral testimony by a master or commissioner is, in the light of the
purpose and object of the proceeding, the equivalent of
the judge's own exercise of the function of the trier of the
facts.
The circumstance that the practice has grown up of
referring such causes to a commissioner, has long been
indulged in in the federal courts of California, and has
found a place in a rule of court, cannot overcome the plain
command of the statute. It is true that the practice was
followed in certain deportation cases which were reviewed
by this Court, but, so far as appears, no point was made
as to theprocedure followed in those cases and the matter
was passed without notice.
It may be that the practice is a convenient one, but, if
so, that consideration is for Congress. In view of the
plain terms in which the Congressional policy is evidenced
in the Habeas Corpus Act, the courts may not substitute
another more convenient mode of trial.
It is said that the procedure tends to expedite the disposition of habeas corpus cases. The record in this case
would seem to contradict the argument.' And when it
is remembered that R. S. 756 ' required that the return
" The petition was filed May 8, 1939. The order to show cause
issued June 29, 1939. The return was presented July 10, 1939; the
traverse July 31, 1939. The writ issued December 14, 1939. The
commissioner held hearings on December 16, 1939, and April 30, 1940.
He filed his report May 23, 1940, and the judge entered an order
confirming the report and discharging the writ July 1, 1940. No
explanation is vouchsafed for what seems, in view of the peremptory
terms of the statute, an inordinate protraction of the proceeding.
*28 U. S. C. § 456.

HOLIDAY v. JOHNSTON.
342

Opinion of the Court.

in this case be made within three days of the issue of the
writ, and that R. S. 758, supra, required the respondent
to produce the body at the same time he made the return; that R. S. 759 10 commands that the hearing shall
be set not more than five days after the return; and that
R. S. 761, supra, enjoins the judge to proceed in a summary way to hear the cause and dispose of the petitioner,
it is difficult to see how the comparatively cumbersome
and time-consuming procedure of reference, report, and
hearing upon the report, can be thought a more expeditious method than that prescribed by the statute.
The practice of referring equity causes to masters presents no persuasive analogy. The scope and purpose of
the two proceedings are obviously different. Moreover,
when Congress prescribed the procedure in habeas corpus
the practice of reference to masters in chancery was well
known to it. The legislature, nevertheless, saw fit to
require a different procedure in habeas corpus cases.
Finally, the sanction by Rule 53 of the Rules of Civil
Procedure of references to masters does not aid in the
decision of the question presented. Rule 81 (a) (2)
provides that appeals in habeas corpus cases are to be
governed by the rules, but that the rules are not applicable "otherwise than on appeal" in habeas corpus cases
"except to the extent that the practice in such proceedings is not set forth in statutes of the United States and
has heretofore conformed to the practice in actions at
law or suits in equity . . ." Since the practice in habeas
corpus is set forth in plain terms in the Revised Statutes,
to which reference has been made, Rule 53 has no application.
In summary, we hold that the provisions of the habeas
corpus act, as embodied in the Revised Statutes, are too
plain to be disregarded for any of the reasons advanced.
The District Judge should himself have heard the pris1028

U. S. C. § 459.

326252'-41----2.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

313 U. S.

oner's testimony and, in the light of it and the other
testimony, himself have -ound the facts and based his
disposition of the cause upon his findings. The petitioner has not been afforded the right of testifying before
the judge, which the statute plainly accords him. In
order that he may have that right we reverse the judgment and remapd the cause to the District Court for
further proceedings in conformity to this opinion. We
express no opinion as to the weight or sufficiency of the
evidence heretofore adduced. The issues of fact will be
for solution by the District Court upon a further
hearing.

Reversed.
BROOKS v. DEWAR ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEVADA.

No. 718. Argued May 1, 1941.-Decided May 26, 1941.
1. The judgment being erroneous on the merits, the Court abstains
from inquiring whether this suit to enjoin a subordinate federal
officer from alleged invasion of plaintiff's rights under color of a
federal statute but without authority, is a suit against the United

States, or whether the Secretary of the Interior should have been
joined as a necessary party defendant, or whether the state court
was without power to enjoin a federal officer. P. 359.

2. In administering the Taylor Grazing Act of June 28, 1934, the
Secretary of the Interior, relying on the broad powers conferred by

§ 2, issued temporary licenses to stockowners, for the grazing of
their livestock upon the public lands within grazing districts, and
charged a uniform price per head, rather than have the grazing

lands go unregulated pending the lengthy period required for instituting the plan, contemplated by § 3, of renewable term permits at
reasonable fees adjusted to each case, etc. With full knowledge of
this, Congress repeatedly appropriated part of the money thus
brought into the Treasury for expenditure by the Secretary in improvement of the ranges. Held, that the Secretary's construction
of the statute wap thereby confirmed and his action as agent of

