GELFERT v. NATIONAL CITY BANK.
215

221

Syllabus.

Bank, 8 How. 586, 613. Yet none of these considerations
is applicable here. The facts do not justify the invocation of estoppel against Downey's individual creditors.
Respondent is neither a lien creditor nor an innocent
grantee for value. At best it is in no more favorable
position than a judgment creditor who has not levied
execution. Furthermore, respondent had at least some
knowledge as to the fraudulent character of Downey's
corporation. Cf. Goodwin v. Hammond, .13 Cal. 168;
Bull v. Ford, 66 Cal. 176; 4 P. 1175. And title to the
property fraudulently conveyed has vested in the bankruptcy trustee of the grantor. We have not been referred
to any state law or any equitable considerations which
under these circumstances would accord respondent the
priority which it seeks. It therefore is entitled only to
pari passu participation with Downey's individual creditors. Buffum v. Barceloux Co., 289 U. S. 227.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and that of the District Court affirmed.
Reversed.
GELFERT, EXECUTOR, v. NATIONAL CITY BANK
OF NEW YORK.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 740. Argued April 3, 4, 1941.-Decided April 28, 1941.

1. A state statute (N. Y. Laws, 1938, c. 510, amending § 1083 Civil
Prac. Act), directing that the amount of a deficiency judgment
after foreclosure sale of mortgaged property shall be ascertained
by deducting from the amount of the debt the fair and reasonable market value of the property (to be determined by the court
upon affidavits or otherwise) or the sale price of the property,
whichever is higher, is not invalid under the Contract Clause of
the Federal Constitution as applied to the case of a mortgagee who
bought in the property at the foreclosure sale for much less than
the debt, and who, under the law as it existed when the mortgage
was made, would have been entitled to a deficiency judgment for

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Respondent.

313 U. S.

the difference between the amount of the debt and the amount of
the sale price. P. 231.
The fact that the later statute was not based on any declared
public emergency and that it confined the determination of the
right to a deficiency judgment to the foreclosure proceeding, leaving the mortgagee no alternative remedy substantially co-extensive
with that afforded by the older statute, did not affect the validity
of the later statute as applied to the mortgage.
2. It is quite uniformly the rule in this country, as in England, that
while equity will not set aside a foreclosure sale for mere inadequacy of price, it will do so if the inadequacy is so great as to
shock the conscience or if there are additional circumstances
against its fairness, such as chilled bidding. P. 232.
3. There is no constitutional reason why, in lieu of the more restricted
control by a court of equity, the legislature can not substitute a
uniform rule designed to prevent mortgagees, bidding at foreclosure
sales, from obtaining more than their just due. P. 233.
257 App. Div. 1076; 14 N. Y. S. 2d 995, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 312 U. S. 674, to review a judgment entered on remittitur from the Court of Appeals of New
York, 284 N. Y. 13; 29 N. E. 2d 449, which, reversing a
judgment of the Supreme Court, Appellate Division,
affirmed and reinstated (1) an order at Special Term confirming a referee's report of a mortgage foreclosure sale
and (2) a deficiency judgment entered pursuant to that
order.
Mr. George Link, Jr. for petitioner.
Mr. Barney B. Fensterstock for respondent.
As applied to a mortgage executed prior to its enactment, the new § 1083 contravenes the prohibition of Art.
I, § 10 of the Federal Constitution against the passage
by a State of legislation impairing the obligation of contracts.
It is neither emergency nor temporary legislation. Cf.
Home Building & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S.398.
It is a permanent statute applicable to foreclosures of all
mortgages, regardless of date, amount or parties, and con-

GELFERT v. NATIONAL CITY BANK.
221

223

Argument for Respondent.

tains no provisions apposite to the relief of any pressing
public needs. W. B. Worthen Co. v. Thomas, 292 U. S.
426. The Court of Appeals found that it is not addressed
to the general welfare of the State, but is directed solely to
the private contractual rights of parties to an indebtedness secured by a mortgage on real property. Cf. Veix
v. Sixth Ward Assn., 310 U. S. 32.
The law which provides a remedy for the enforcement
of a contract, as that law exists at the time of the making
of the contract, enters into and becomes part of the contract as if fully set forth therein, Farmers Bank v. Federal Reserve Bank, 262 U. S. 649; Bronson v. Kinzie, 1
How. 311, and subsequent legislation may not constitutionally change such remedy in any material respect, at
least unless a substantially co-extensive remedy remains
or is furnished thereby. Edwards v. Kearzey, 96 U. S.
595; McCracken v. Hayward, 2 How. 608, 612; Oshkosh
Water Works Co. v. Oshkosh, 187 U. S. 437, 439; Home
Building & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S. 398, 434.
See Clark v. Reynolds, 8 Wall. 318, 322.
No remedy substantially equivalent to that afforded by
the old § 1083 remains to the mortgagee. The right
to recover the mortgage debt at law, apart from the
mortgage security, is circumscribed by a statutory prohibition against the levy of execution on the mortgagor's
equity of redemption. New York Civil Practice Act,
§ 710. The maintenance of a second action, after foreclosure, to recover a deficiency resulting from the foreclosure sale is prohibited by statute except by leave of
the court, New York Civil Practice Act, § 1078, but
settled authority is against the granting of such leave in
respect of a party who could have been made a defendant
in the foreclosure action unless special circumstances are
shown manifestly requiring that relief. Equitable Life
Assurance Society v. Stevens, 63 N. Y. 341; Scofield v.
Doscher, 72 N. Y. 491; Vanderbilt v. Schreyer, 91 N. Y.

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Respondent.

313 U. S.

392; Morrison v. Slater, 128 App. Div. 467; Darmstadtv.
Manson, 144 App. Div. 249; Stehl v. Uris, 210 App. Div.
444. Whether the new § 1083 has superseded § 1078 so

as to forbid the granting of such leave in any case was
left open by the Court of Appeals in its opinion, but
some indication was given that such a holding was not
improbable. See Honeyman v. Hanan, 275 N. Y. 382,
392.
State statutes similar in purpose and effect have been
held unconstitutional as applied to contracts in existence
at the time of their enactment. Bronson v. Kinzie, 1
How. 311; McCracken v. Hayward, 2 How. 608; Gantly's
Lessee v. Ewing, 3 How. 707. Cf., Jeffries v. Federal
Land Bank, 302 U. S. 708.
In recent years, numerous state courts of last resort
have voided similar statutes as applied retroactively.
Bontag v. McCurdy, 59 P. 2d 326 (Ariz.); Adams v.
Spillyards, 61 S. W. 2d 686 (Ark.); Hales v. Snowden, 65
P. 2d 847 (Cal.); Atlantic Loan Co. v. Peterson, 181 Ga.
266; Vanderbilt v. Brunton Piano Co., 111 N. J. L. 596;
Federal Land Bank v. Garrison,193 S. E. 308; cert. denied sub nom. Jeffries v. Federal Land Bank, supra;
Langever v. Miller, 76 S. W. 2d 1025 (Tex.) Dist'g
Honeyman v. Jacobs,306 U. S. 539.
See W. B. Worthen Co. v. Thomas, 292 U. S. 426;
Worthen Co. v. Kavanaugh,295 U. S. 56.
So far as the opinion in the Honeyman case may have
indicated that the act there considered was sustainable,
apart from the existent emergency, on the ground that
it merely codified a power which courts of equity in New
York have always possessed to control the measure of
deficiency judgments in foreclosure actions, the Court of
Appeals, in an unbroken line of decisions from earliest
times to the case at bar, has held that no such equitable
jurisdiction in foreclosure suits ever existed or now exists,
apart from statute, in New York. Morris v. Morange,

GELFERT v. NATIONAL CITY BANK.
221

225

Argument for Respondent.

38 N. Y. 172; Wager v. Link, 134 N. Y. 122; Feiber
Realty Corp. v. Abel, 265 N. Y. 94; Frank v. Davis, 135
N. Y. 275, 277-8; Emigrant Industrial Savings Bank v.
Van Bokkelen, 269 N. Y. 110, 116; Guaranteed Title &
Mortgage Co. v. Scheffres, 275 N. Y. 30.
Equity courts have always had and still have power to
refuse confirmation of foreclosure sales upon equitable
grounds,-fraud, collusion, inadequacy of price so gross
as to shock the conscience of the court, etc. But the
only relief which the court could grant the mortgagor
would be to order a resale. Emigrant IndustrialSavings
Bank v. Van Bokkelen, 269 N. Y. 110, 115.
In respect of matters of local law, the pronouncements
of the Court of Appeals are controlling and conclusive
upon this Court. Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64;
Ruhlin v. New York Life Ins. Co., 304 U. S. 202.
Distinguishing Richmond Mortgage & Loan Corp. v.
Wachovia Bank & Trust Co., 300 U. S. 124.
The decision at bar is sustainable upon a further
ground. At the time the mortgage herein was made and
at the time the moneys secured thereby were advanced,
mortgages executed on and after July 1, 1932 were, by
express statutory exception, excluded from the coverage
of the moratory deficiency judgment act. Laws of 1933,
Chap. 794, § 4. The stimulation of business by the encouragement of new loans was an integral part of the
legislative policy in dealing with the then existing emergency. In effect, therefore, there was direct legislative
assurance to lenders that loans secured by mortgages
made after July 1, 1932 would be enforceable in the manner provided by the then § 1083. While this assurance
may not have the full contractual force of the government bonds involved in the "Gold Clause" cases, there
is sufficient analogy in the legislative attempt, by the
new § 1083, to revoke its pledge retroactively, to give
appreciable aptness to the language of this Court in one
326252--41-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Respondent.

313 U. S.

of those cases. Perry v. United States, 294 U. S. 330,
351. See Home Owners Loan Corp. v. Robinson, 285
N. W. 768.
Upon the same analysis and for the same reasons the
new § 1083, as applied to the mortgage at bar, is violative of § 6 of Article I of the Constitution of the State
of New York and is also invalid thereunder. Sliosberg
v. New York Life Ins. Co., 217 App. Div. 67, 72; aff'd
244 N. Y. 482; People v, Otis, 90 N. Y. 48.
The judgment is sustainable apart from the constitutional question. The proceedings in the Supreme Court,
Kings County, were, as a matter of local practice, a
compliance with the requirements of new § 1083.
The loans secured by the guaranty of the appellant's
testator, which was in turn secured by the mortgage at
bar, were ordinary commercial loans to a business corporation. They were not advances made on the security of real estate, and neither by the agreement of the
parties nor by any reasonable construction of their transaction was real estate to be the primary source of repayment. It would be neither "just" nor "equitable"
to compel the Bank to credit upon the indebtedness thus
incurred an amount in excess of the actual proceeds of
the foreclosure sale of the property which, at most, was
secondary security. In fact, any such requirement would
be contrary to the public interest in the stability and
liquidity of banks. Rothschild v. Manufacturers Trust
Co., 279 N. Y. 355, 359-361. The Bank could not have
agreed at the inception of the transaction to accept land
in repayment, for that would have been, in effect, an
agreement to purchase real property, which is prohibited
by the National Banking Act, 44 Stat. 1277, c. 191, § 3;
12 U. S. C. § 29. The public policy underlying this statute is the desirability of keeping the capital of banks
liquid and of preventing the accumulation of real estate
in their hands, National Bank v. Matthew, 98 U. S. 621,

GELFERT v. NATIONAL CITY BANK.
221

227

Opinion of the Court.

626, and it would be a manifest frustration of that policy
to permit a borrower to convert his obligation to repay his
loan in cash into a right to repay it with real estate
merely because the bank had taken a mortgage as additional security.
Nor is the instant decision unjust or inequitable to the
appellant. The debt was contracted in 1937 and was to
be repaid within a short time. The same general economic conditions prevailed throughout this period.
The judgment is sustainable on the ground that the
price realized at the foreclosure sale was the fair and
reasonable market value of the premises at the time of
such sale.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This action was brought by respondent to foreclose a
mortgage made in December, 1932, by Carpenter. At
that time § 1083 of the New York Civil Practice Act provided that the amount of the deficiency judgment was
to be measured by the residue of the debt remaining unsatisfied after a sale of the mortgaged property and the
application of the proceeds pursuant to the directions
contained in the judgment. In November, 1938, a judgment of foreclosure and sale was entered for $18,401.25,
and in December, 1938, the foreclosure sale was held at
which the property was purchased by respondent's nominee for $4,000. The referee, appointed by the court to
sell, reported a deficiency which after the inclusion of
taxes, fees and expenses was computed at $16,162.12.
Respondent moved to confirm the referee's report of sale
and asked that a deficiency judgment be entered for that
amount. Petitioner took exceptions to the report and
made a cross-motion to have the court fix the value of
the property for the purpose of determining the amount
of the deficiency judgment on the ground that the sale

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

price was "wholly inequitable and unconscionable." A
new § 10831 (L. 1938, ch. 510), effective April 7, 1938,
provides in substance that the court in determining the
amount of a deficiency judgment should, on appropriate
motion, "determine, upon affidavit or otherwise as it shall
direct, the fair and reasonable market value of the mortgaged premises" and should deduct from the amount of
the debt the "market value as determined by the court
or the sale price of the property whichever shall be the
higher." The right to recover any deficiency is made de'That section provides:
"Judgment for deficiency; limitation. If a person who is liable
to the plaintiff for the payment of the debt secured by the mortgage
is made a defendant in the action, and has appeared or has been
personally served with the summons, the final judgment may award
payment by him of the whole residue, or so much thereof as the
court may determine to be just and equitable, of the debt remaining
unsatisfied, after a sale of the mortgaged property and the application of the proceeds, pursuant to the directions contained in such
judgment, the amount thereof to be determined by the court as
herein provided. Simultaneously with the making of a motion for
an order confirming the sale provided such motion is made within
ninety days after the date of the consummation of the sale by the
delivery of the proper deed of conveyance to the purchaser in all
cases where the sale is held after the date this section as hereby
amended takes effect, and in all cases where the sale was held prior
to the date this section as hereby amended takes effect and said
sale has not heretofore been confirmed, then within ninety days
from the date this section as hereby amended takes effect or within
ninety days after the date of the consummation of the sale by delivery of the proper deed of conveyance to the purchaser, regardless
of whether the sale was held prior or subsequent to or on the
date this section as hereby amended takes effect, the party to
whom such residue shall be owing may make a motion in the action
for leave to enter a deficiency judgment upon notice to the party
against whom such judgment is sought or the attorney who shall
have appeared for such party in such action. Such notice shall be
served personally or in such other manner as the court may direct.
Upon such motion the court, whether or not the respondent appears,

GELFERT v. NATIONAL CITY BANK.
221

229

Opinion of the Court.

pendent on the making of such a motion. The court
denied petitioner's cross-motion 2 and directed the entry
of a deficiency judgment for $16,162.12. The judgment
of the Appellate Division denying respondent a deficiency
judgment because it had not made a motion for one under
the new § 1083 (257 App. Div. 465, 13 N. Y. S. 2d 600),
was reversed by the Court of Appeals, which held, one
judge dissenting, that the new § 1083, as applied to mortgage contracts previously made, violated the contract
clause of the Federal Constitution. 284 N. Y. 13, 29
N. E. 2d 449. We granted the petition for certiorari because of the important constitutional question which was
raised.
As noted by the Court of Appeals, the measure of a deficiency under the new § 1083 is in substance the same as

that prescribed by the New York moratory deficiency
shall determine, upon affidavit or otherwise as it shall direct, the
fair and reasonable market value of the mortgaged premises as of
the date such premises were bid in at auction or such nearest earlier
date as there shall have been any market value thereof and shall
make an order directing the entry of a deficiency judgment. Such
deficiency judgment shall be for an amount equal to the sum of the
amount owing by the party liable as determined by the judgment
with interest, plus the amount owing on all prior liens and encumbrances with interest, plus costs and disbursements of the action
including the referee's fee and disbursements, less the market value
as determined by the court or the sale price of the property whichever shall be the higher. If no motion for a deficiency judgment
shall be made as herein prescribed the proceeds of the sale regardless
of amount shall be deemed to be in full satisfaction of the mortgage
debt and no right to recover any deficiency in any action or proceeding shall exist. .. "
'An affidavit of a real estate broker submitted by petitioner in
support of his cross-motion stated that in his opinion the fair market
value of the property was $11,000. An affidavit of an appraiser
submitted by respondent in opposition stated that in his view the
fair market value of the property was $6,500. The property was
assessed by New York City for tax purposes at $15,000.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

judgment act-§ 1083-a of the Civil Practice Act. The
latter section was sustained by this Court under the contract clause of the Federal Constitution in Honeyman v.
Jacobs,306 U. S. 539. But the Court of Appeals said that
the new § 1083, unlike the moratory deficiency judgment
act, is not addressed to a declared public emergency, is
unrestricted in its application,3 "concerns merely the private contract relationship of the parties to a real property
mortgage," is not "designed for the relief of urgent public
needs," is not "conditioned upon any equitable factor,"
leaves "no room for the play of any equitable consideration," benefits "every mortgagor irrespective of the character or amount of his investment," and burdens "every
mortgagee no matter what his necessities." The Court
pointed out that, under previously existing statutes of
New York, the liability for a deficiency was to be finally
determined by a judgment of foreclosure and sale, that the
"subsequent docketing of a deficiency judgment was a
merely clerical act," and that the deficiency was to be
ascertained by a sale and "not by the estimates of witnesses or other less satisfactory evidence." It held that
that system of foreclosure "entered into the engagement
of the present parties and created and defined the legal
and equitable obligations of their contract." It also
pointed out that, unlike the situation in Richmond Mortgage & Loan Corp. v. Wachovia Bank & Trust Co., 300
U. S. 124, there remained under the laws of New York
no remedy available to the mortgagee which was "substantially coextensive" with that afforded by the old
§ 1083, since, though an action at law for the debt might
lie, the judgment debtor's equity of redemption could
not be sold under an execution upon that judgment, and
since the right to bring a second action to recover a defi'The moratory deficiency judgment act did not apply to mortgages
or connected agreements dated on or after July 1, 1932. See 284
N. Y. 13, 16-17; 29 N. E. 2d 449.

GELFERT v. NATIONAL CITY BANK.
221

231

Opinion of the Court.

ciency resulting on a foreclosure sale, if it existed at all
under the new legislation, was drastically restricted. Accordingly, it held that in light of such cases as Barnitz v.
Beverly, 163 V. S. 118, the new § 1083 could not be applied
to mortgage contracts previously made, without violation
of the contract clause of the Federal Constitution.
We take a different view.'
The formula which a legislature may adopt for determining the amount of a deficiency judgment is not fixed
and invariable. That which exists at the date of the
execution of the mortgage does not become so embedded
in the contract between the parties that it cannot be constitutionally altered. As this Court said in Home Building & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell,290 U. S. 398, 435, "Not only
are existing laws read into contracts in order to fix obligations as between the parties, but the reservation of essential attributes of sovereign power is also read into contracts as a postulate of the legal order." And see Voeller
v. Neilston Warehouse Co., 311 U. S. 531. It is that
reserved legislative power with which we are here
concerned.
The control of judicial sales of realty by courts of equity
and by legislatures in order to prevent sacrificial prices
has a long history. Weiner, Conflicting Functions of the
Upset Price, 27 Col. L. Rev. 132, 133, et seq. In chancery
sales in England dring the eighteenth century, there developed the practice of opening the bidding, prior to confirmation, on an offer to advance the price 10 per cent.
Graffam v. Burgess, 117 U. S. 180, 191. That practice,
much criticized by Lord Eldon, was gradually supplanted
by reserved bidding-in the first instance by equity (Jervoise v. Clarke, 1 Jac. & W. 388) and subsequently by stat'We are concerned here solely with the application of this statute
to a situation where the mortgagee purchases the property at foreclosure sale. We intimate no opinion on its constitutionality as
applied to the case where the mortgagee is not the purchaser.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

ute. Sale of Land by Auction Act, 1867, 30 & 31 Vict. c.
48, § 7; Graffam v. Burgess, supra, p. 191; 1 Daniell,
Chancery Practice (7th ed. 1901) pp. 879-880. Though
the early English rule of advance bidding found little foothold in this country, reserved bidding has its counterpart
here in the occasional utilization by equity courts of the
upset price in mortgage foreclosures. Blair v. St. Louis,
H. & K. R. Co., 25 F. 232; Pewabic Mining Co. v. Mason,
145 U. S. 349; 2 Bonbright, Valuation of Property, pp. 849,
et seq.; Stetson et al., Some Legal Phases of Corporate
Financing, Reorganization and Regulation (1927), p. 202.
And it is quite uniformly the rule in this country, as in
England, that while equity will not set aside a sale for
mere inadequacy of price,5 it will do so if the inadequacy is
so great as to shock the conscience or if there are additional
circumstances against its fairness, such as chilled bidding.
Cocks v. Izard, 7 Wall. 559; Graffam v. Burgess, supra;
Ballentyne v. Smith, 205 U. S. 285. Beyond that, a number of states by statute have endeavored to prevent property going for a song at judicial sales. Provisions that the
property shall not be sold at less than a designated percentage of its appraised value, and requirements that a
stated percentage of the appraised value above the sales
price must be credited on the debt, are illustrative. 3
Jones, Mortgages (8th ed. 1928) §§ 1695 et seq., 2
Bonbright, Valuation of Property, pp. A39 et seq.
We mention these matters here because they indicate
that for about two centuries there has been a rather continuous effort, either through general rule or by appeal to
the chancellor in specific cases, to prevent the machinery
of judicial sales from becoming an instrument of oppression. And, so far as mortgage foreclosures are con'But see Suring State Bank v. Giese, 210 Wis. 489; 246 N. W. 556;
Wilson v. Fouke, 188 Ark. 811; 67 S. W. 2d 1030; Teachers' Retire-

ment Fund Assn. v. Pirie,150 Ore. 435; 46 P. 2d 105.

GELFERT v. NATIONAL CITY BANK.
221

233

Opinion of the Court.

cerned, numerous devices have been employed to safeguard mortgagors from sales which will, or may, result
in mortgagees collecting more than their due. The variety of formulae which has been employed to that end
is ample evidence not only of the intrusion which advanced notions of fairness have made on the earlier concern for stability of judicial sales but also of the flexibility of the standards of fairness themselves. Underlying
that change has been the realization that the price which
property commands at a forced sale may be hardly even
a rough measure of its value. The paralysis of real
estate markets during periods of depression, the wide
discrepancy between the money value of property to the
mortgagee and the cash price which that property would
receive at a forced sale, the fact that the price realized
at such a sale may be a far cry from the price at which
the property would be sold to a willing buyer by a willing seller, reflect the considerations which have motivated
departures from the theory that competitive bidding in
this field amply protects the debtor.
Mortgagees are constitutionally entitled to no more
than payment in full.0 Honeyman v. Jacobs, supra.
They cannot be heard to complain on constitutional
grounds if the legislature takes steps to see to it that
they get no more than that. As we have seen, equity
will intervene in. individual cases where it is palpably
apparent that gross unfairness is imminent. That is the
law of New York. 284 N. Y. 13, 20; 29 N. E. 2d 449.
And see Fisher v. Hersey, 78 N. Y. 387. But there is no
constitutional reason why in lieu of the more restricted
control by a court of equity the legislature cannot substitute a uniform comprehensive rule designed to reduce
or to avoid, in the run of cases, the chance that the mort'As to the bankruptcy power see Wright v. Union Central Life
Ins. Co., 311 U. S. 273, and cases cited.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

gagee will be paid more than once. Cf. Suring State
Bank v. Giese, 210 Wis. 489; 246 N. W. 556. Certainly
under this statute it cannot be said that more than that
was attempted. The "fair and reasonable market value"
of the property has an obvious and direct relevancy to
a determination of the amount of the mortgagee's prospective loss. In a given case the application of a specified criterion of value may not result in a determination
of actual loss with mathematical certitude. But "incidental individual inequality" is not fatal. Phelps v.
Board of Education, 300 U. S. 319, 324. The fact that
men will differ in opinion as to the adequacy of any particular yardstick of value emphasizes that the appropriateness of any one formula is peculiarly a matter for legislative determination. Certainly, so far as mortgagees
are concerned, the use of the criterion of "fair and reasonable market value" in cases where they obtain the property for a lesser amount holds promise of tempering the
extremes of both inflated and depressed market prices.
And so far as mortgagors are concerned, it offers some
assurance that they will not be saddled with more than
the amount of their obligations. To hold that mortgagees are entitled under the contract clause to retain
the advantages of a forced sale would be to dignify into
a constitutionally protected property right their chance
to get more than the amount of their contracts. Honeyman v. Jacobs, supra. The contract clause does not protect such a strategical, procedural advantage.
In conclusion, the statute in question, like the one involved in Richmond Mortgage & Loan Corp. v. Wachovia Bank & Trust Co., supra, p. 130, "cannot fairly be
said to do more than restrict the mortgagee to that for
which he contracted, namely, payment in full." Here,
as in that case, the obligation of the mortgagee's contract is recognized; the statute does no more than limit

GELFERT v. NATIONAL CITY BANK.
221

235

Opinion of the Court.

"that right so as to prevent his obtaining more than
his due." Id., p. 130. To be sure, the mortgagee retained in that case an alternative remedy, while in the
instant one the Court of Appeals has said that under
New York law there remained no alternative remedy
"substantially coextensive" with that which had been
removed. But it is clear from Honeyman v. Hanan,
302 U. S. 375, that a requirement that the right to a
deficiency judgment should be determined in the foreclosure proceeding, or that a mortgagee is not entitled
to a deficiency judgment unless he moves for one, raises
no substantial federal question. As stated by this Court
in that case (302 U. S. at p. 378), the Federal Constitution does not prevent the states from determining, on
due notice and opportunity to be heard, "by what process
legal rights may be asserted or legal obligations" enforced. The principles of those cases are applicable
here. The fact that an emergency was not declared to
exist when this statute was passed does not bring within
the protective scope of the contract clause rights which
were denied such protection in Honeyman v. Jacobs,
supra. See Home Building & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell,
supra.
Respondent points out that earlier decisions of this
Court have struck down under the contract clause, as
respects contracts previously made, a state statute requiring judicial sales to bring two-thirds of the amount
of the appraised value of the property. Bronson v.
Kinzie, 1 How. 311; McCracken v. Hayward, 2 How.
608. And see Gantly's Lessee v. Ewing, 3 How. 707.
Those cases, however, have been confined to the special
circumstances there involved. Home Building & Loan
Assn. v. Blaisdell, supra, pp. 431-434. We cannot permit
the broad language which those early decisions employed
to force legislatures to be blind to the lessons which
another century has taught.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.

236

Argument for Respondents.

4

313 U. S.

The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded
to the New York Supreme Court for proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
OLSEN, SECRETARY OF LABOR OF NEBRASKA, v.

NEBRASKA EX REL. WESTERN REFERENCE &
BOND ASSOCIATION, INC., ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEBRASKA.

No. 671. Argued April 8, 9, 1941.-Decided April 28, 1941.
1. A Nebraska statute limiting the amount of the fee which may be
charged by private employment agencies, to ten per cent. of the
first month's salary or wages of the person for whom employment
was obtained, held consistent with due process of law. Ribnik v.
McBride, 277 U. S. 350, overruled. P. 243.
2. The wisdom, need and appropriateness of this legislation are for
the State to determine. P. 246.
138 Neb, 574; 293 N. W. 393, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

312 U. S. 673, to review a judgment for a

peremptory writ of mandamus requiring the Secretary of
Labor of the State of Nebraska to issue licenses for the
operation of private employment agencies. The abovenamed association was the original relator. A number
of other employment agencies, which sought and obtained the same relief by intervention, were also respondents in this court. Mr. Olsen was substituted for his
predecessor in office, Mr. Kinney, post, p. 541.
Mr. Don Kelley, Assistant Attorney GeneraI of Nebraska, with whom Mr. Walter R. Johnson, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Walter Gordon Merritt for respondents.
The statute violates the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Ribnik v. McBride, 277 U. S. 350,
359.

