OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

HORT v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
SECOND CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

No. 517. Argued March 7, 1941.-Decided March 31, 1941.
1. An amount received by a lessor in consideration of the cancellation of a lease of real estate is income taxable to him under § 22
(a) of the Revenue Act of 1932 and must be reported as gross
income in its entirety. P. 30.
2. Although the amount so received be less than the difference between the present value of the unmatured rental payments and
the fair rental value of the property for the unexpired period of
the lease, there is no loss deductible under § 23 (e) of the Act.
P. 32.
3. Even though the lease be regarded as "property," the consideration received for its cancellation is not, for the purposes of the
Revenue Act of 1932, a return of capital. P. 31.
112 F. 2d 167, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

311 U. S. 641, to review the affirmance of

a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 39 B. T. A. 922,
sustaining the determination of a deficiency in income
tax.
Messrs. Walter J. Rosston and Edwin Hort submitted
for petitioner.
Mr. Richard H. Demuth, with whom Solicitor General
Biddle, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Messrs.
Sewall Key and Morton K. Rothschild were on the brief,
for respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE MURPHY

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
We must determine whether the amount petitioner
received as consideration for cancellation of a lease of
realty in New York City was ordinary gross income as

HORT v. COMMISSIONER.
28

Opinion of the Court.

defined in § 22 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1932 (47 Stat.
169, 178), and whether, in any event, petitioner sustained
a loss through cancellation of the lease which is recognized in § 23 (e) of the same Act (47 Stat. 169, 180).
Petitioner acquired the property, a lot and ten-story
office building, by devise from his father in 1928. At
the time he became owner, the premises were leased to
a firm which had sublet the main floor to the Irving Trust
Co. In 1927, five years before the head lease expired,
the Irving Trust Co. and petitioner's father executed a
contract in which the latter agreed to lease the main
floor and basement to the former for a term of fifteen
years at an annual rental of $25,000, the term to commence at the expiration of the head lease.
In 1933, the Irving Trust Co. found it unprofitable to
maintain a branch in petitioner's building. After some
negotiations, petitioner and the Trust Co. agreed to cancel the lease in consideration of a payment to petitioner
of $140,000. Petitioner did not include this amount in
gross income in his income tax return for 1933. On the
contrary, he reported a loss of $21,494.75 on the theory
that the amount he received as consideration for the
cancellation was $21,494.75 less than the difference between the present value of the unmatured rental payments and the fair rental value of the main floor and
basement for the unexpired term of the lease. He did
not deduct this figure, however, because he reported other
losses in excess of gross income.
The Commissioner included the entire $140,000 in gross
income, disallowed the asserted loss, made certain other
adjustments not material here, and assessed a deficiency.
The Board of Tax Appeals affirmed. 39 B. T. A. 922.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed per curiam on the
authority of WarrenService Corp. v. Commissioner, 110 F.
2d 723. 112 F. 2d 167. Because of conflict with Commissioner v. Langwell Real Estate Corp., 47 F. 2d 841, we

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

granted certiorari limited to the question whether, "in
computing net gain or loss for income tax purposes, a
taxpayer [can] offset the value of the lease canceled
against the consideration received by him for the cancellation." 311 U. S. 641.
Petitioner apparently contends that the amount received for cancellation of the lease was capital rather
than ordinary income and that it was therefore subject
to §§ 101, 111-113, and 117 (47 Stat. 169, 191, 195--202,
207) which govern capital gains and losses. Further, he
argues that even if that amount must be reported as ordinary gross income he sustained a loss which § 23 (e)
authorizes him to deduct. We cannot agree.
The amount received by petitioner for cancellation of
the lease must be included in his gross income in its
entirety. Section 22 (a), copied in the margin,' expressly defines gross income to include "gains, profits, and
income derived from . . . rent, . . . or gains or profits

and income derived from any source whatever." Plainly
this definition reached the rent paid prior to cancellation
just as it would have embraced subsequent payments if
the lease had never been canceled. It would have included a prepayment of the discounted value of unmatured rental payments whether received at the inception of the lease or at any time thereafter. Similarly, it
would have extended to the proceeds of a suit to recover
damages had the Irving Trust Co. breached the lease in22 (a). "Gross income" includes gains, profits, and income
derived from salaries, wages, or compensation for personal service,
of whatever kind and in whatever form paid, or from professions,
vocations, trades, businesses, commerce, or sales, or dealings in property, whether real or personal, growing out of the ownership or use of
or interest in such property; also from interest, rent, dividends, securities, or the transaction of any business carried on for gain or
profit, or gains or profits and income derived from any source whatever.
1Sec.

HORT v. COMMISSIONER.
28

Opinion of the Court.

stead of concluding a settlement. Compare United
States v. Safety Car Heating Co., 297 U. S. 88; Burnet v.
Sanford, 282 U. S. 359. That the amount petitioner received resulted from negotiations ending in cancellation
of the lease rather than from a suit to enforce it cannot
alter the fact that basically the payment was merely a
substitute for the rent reserved in the lease. So far as
the application of § 22 (a) is concerned, it is immaterial
that petitioner chose to accept an amount less than the
strict present value of the unmatured rental payments
rather than to engage in litigation, possibly uncertain and
expensive.
The consideration received for cancellation of the lease
was not a return of capital. We assume that the lease
was "property," whatever that signifies abstractly. Presumably the bond in Helvering v. Horst, 311 U. S. 112,
and the lease in Helvering v. Bruun, 309 U. S. 461, were
also "property," but the interest coupon in Horst and the
building in Bruun nevertheless were held to constitute
items of gross income. Simply because the lease was
"property" the amount received for its cancellation was
not a return of capital, quite apart from the fact that
"property" and "capital" are not necessarily synonymous
in the Revenue Act of 1932 or in common usage. Where,
as in this case, the disputed amount was essentially a
substitute for rental payments which § 22 (a) expressly
characterizes as gross income, it must be regarded as ordinary income, and it is immaterial that for some purposes the contract creating the right to such payments
may be treated as "property" or "capital."
For the same reasons, that amount was not a return
of capital because petitioner acquired the lease as an
incident of the realty devised to him by his father.
Theoretically, it might have been possible in such a case
to value realty and lease separately and to label each a
capital asset. Compare Maass v. Higgins, 312 U. S. 443;

32

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

Appeal of Farmer, 1 B. T. A. 711. But that would not
have converted into capital the amount petitioner received from the Trust Co., since § 22 (b) (3)2 of the 1932
Act (47 Stat. 169, 178) would have required him to include in gross income the rent derived from the property,
and that section, like § 22 (a), does not distinguish rental
payments and a payment which is clearly a substitute
for rental payments.
We conclude that petitioner must report as gross income the entire amount received for cancellation of the
lease, without regard to the claimed disparity between
that amount and the difference between the present value
of the unmatured rental payments and the fair rental
value of the property for the unexpired period of ihe
lease. The cancellation of the lease involved nothing
more than relinquishment of the right to future rental
payments in return for a present substitute payment and
possession of the leased premises. Undoubtedly it diminished the amount of gross income petitioner expected to
realize, but to that extent he was relieved of the duty
to pay income tax. Nothing in § 23 (e) ' indicates that
'Sec. 22 (b). The following items shall not be included in gross income and shall be exempt from taxation under this title: ...
(3) The value of property acquired by gift, bequest, devise, or
inheritance (but the income from such property shall be included in
gross income).
'Sec. 23 (e). Subject to the limitations provided in subsection (r)
of this section, in the case of an individual, losses sustained during
the taxable year and not compensated for by insurance or otherwise
[shall be deductible from gross income](1) if incurred in trade or business; or
(2) if incurred in any transaction entered into for profit, though
not connected with the trade or business; or
(3) of property not connected with the trade or business, if the
loss arises from fires, storms, shipwreck, or other casualty, or from
theft. No loss shall be allowed as a deduction under this paragraph
if at the time of the filing of the return such loss has been claimed
as a deduction for estate tax purposes in the estate tax return.

NYE v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

28

Congress intended to allow petitioner to reduce ordinary
income actually received and reported by the amount of
income he failed to realize. See Warren Service Corp. v.
Commissioner, supra; Josey v. Commissioner, 104 F. 2d
453; Tiscornia v. Commissioner, 95 F. 2d 678; FarrellyWalsh, Inc., v. Commissioner, 13 B. T. A. 923; Goerke Co.
v. Commissioner, 7 B. T. A. 860; Merckens v. Commissioner, 7 B. T. A. 32. Compare, United States v. Safety
Car Heating Co., supra; Voliva v. Commissioner, 36 F.
2d 212; Appeal of Denholm & McKay Co., 2 B. T. A. 444.
We may assume that petitioner was injured insofar as the
cancellation of the lease affected the value of the realty.
But that would become a deductible loss only when its
extent had been fixed by a closed transaction. Regulations No. 77, Art. 171, p. 46; United States v. White
Dental Mfg. Co., 274 U. S. 398.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

NYE

ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 558.

Argued March 12, 1941.-Decided April 14, 1941.

1. Seeking to terminate a suit for wrongful death which an administrator had brought in a federal district court, petitioners
(strangers to the suit) induced the administrator, by undue in-

fluence, to file a final account and obtain his discharge as administrator, and to send letters to his attorney and the district
judge asking dismissal of the suit. The misbehavior occurred
more than 100 miles from the district court. Petitioners were
adjudged guilty of contempt by the district judge; ope was ordered
to pay the costs of the contempt proceeding, including a sum to
the administrator's attorney; and on both, fines were imposed.
A notice of appeal was filed. Held:
326252 -41-3

