CASKEY BAKING CO. v. VIRGINIA.
Opinion of the Court.

CASKEY BAKING CO., INC. v. VIRGINIA.
APPEAL FROM

No. 676.

THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS
VIRGINIA.

OF

Argued April 2, 1941.-Decided April 28, 1941.

A statute of Virginia imposes an annual fee of $100 for each vehicle
used in the business of peddling goods, wares, or merchandise "by
selling and delivering the same at the same time to licensed
dealers or retailers at other than a definite place of business
operated by the seller." The statute exempts manufacturers taxable by the State on capital; distributors of manufactured goods
paying a state license tax on their purchases; and wholesale dealers regularly licensed by the State. Held-as applied to a foreign
corporation which had its principal office and place of business
outside of the State and whose drivers brought into the State
bread which they there sold and delivered to regular customersnot in contravention of the commerce clause or the equal protection
clause of the Federal Constitution. P. 119.
176 Va. 170; 10 S. E. 2d 535, affirmed.
APPEAL from the affirmance of a conviction for violation of a state license tax statute.

Messrs. R. Gray Williams and Clarence E. Martin,
with whom Messrs. J. Sloan Kuykendall and Clarence
E. Martin, Jr. were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Abram P. Staples, Attorney General of Virginia,
with whom Mr. W. W. Martin, Assistant Attorney General, was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the

opinion of the

Court.
The appellant, a corporation of West Virginia has its
principal office and place of business in Martinsburg, in
that State. As a foreign corporation registered in Virginia, it has paid the latter State an annual registration
fee and an income tax on its net profits allocable to its

118

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

Virginia business. It makes bread which it sells to
grocers and other retailers in territory adjacent to Martinsburg, including Winchester and other places in Virginia. Appellant's trucks carry the bread into Virginia
where they serve regular routes at regular intervals. The
drivers call only on regular customers, inquire of each
how much bread he needs and, in response to his order,
take it from the truck and deliver it to the customer.
Thus each such transaction in Virginia is a sale and
delivery in that State to a regular customer.
The company has no property permanently located in
Virginia and no place of business in the State, except
that, as required by the statute respecting registered foreign corporations, it maintains an office in the State where
claims against it may be audited, settled, and paid.
The appellant was convicted for making a sale in Virginia without having procured a license pursuant to
§ 192b 1 of the Tax Code of Virginia and a fine was imposed. The Supreme Court of Appeals affirmed the
conviction.
So far as material the statute provides: "There is
hereby imposed an annual State license tax on every person, firm and corporation (other than . . .a manufacturer taxable on capital by this State, or a distributor of
manufactured goods paying a State license tax on his
purchases) who or which shall peddle goods, wares or
merchandise by selling and delivering the same at the
same time to licensed dealers or retailers at other than
a definite place of business operated by the seller. Provided, however, this act shall not be construed to apply
to wholesale dealers regularly licensed by this State, and
who shall at the same time sell and deliver merchandise
'Acts of Virginia, 1932, p. 376, 1938, p. 440; Va. Tax Code,
1936, 192b, Michie, p. 2458, 1940 Supp. 472.
176 Va. 170, 10 S. E. 2d 535.

CASKEY BAKING CO. v. VIRGINIA.
117

119

Opinion of the Court.

to retail merchants." The annual fee is $100 for each
vehicle used in the business.
It is admitted that appellant was not a manufacturer
taxable on its capital stock, nor a distributor of manufactured products paying a state license tax on its purchases, nor a licensed wholesale dealer, and did not, therefore, come within any of the classes exempted by the
Act.
In the state courts, and here, the appellant challenged
the statute as contravening the commerce clause and the
equal protection clause of the federal Constitution. Its
position is that it is doing either an interstate business
which the State may not burden by imposing a license
tax, or an intrastate business as to which the exaction
works a forbidden discrimination. We hold both contentions untenable.
1. While the transportation of bread across the state
line is interstate commerce, that is not the activity which
is licensed or taxed. The purely local business of peddling is what the Act hits, and this irrespective of the
source of the goods sold. It is settled that such a statute
imposes no burden upon interstate commerce which the
Constitution interdicts.' The appellant, however, urges
that the Act discriminates against interstate commerce
by exempting from its operation the privilege of sales
by manufacturers paying tax on their capital employed
in manufacture in Virginia. It is said that if its bakery
were situate in Virginia the appellant would have the
benefit of this exemption and, since it is not, the marketing of appellant's goods shipped into the State is the
target of a hostile discrimination. But the argument
overlooks the fact that peddlers resident in Viriginia who
buy their goods within the State, or buy or procure them
'Machine Co. v. Gage, 100 U. S. 676; Emert v. Missouri, 156
U. S. 296; Wagner v. Covington, 251 U. S. 95.

120

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

from extra-state sources, are alike subject to the Act.
The contention that the Act discriminates against interstate commerce by virtue of the exemption in question
is negatived by our decisions.'
2. Examination of the Tax Code of Virginia discloses
that the Act in question is but one portion of a comprehensive scheme of taxation. Manufacturers who sell
their own products pay a tax on capital, which the State
deems sufficient to cover all their activities, including
the vending of the goods.' Wholesale merchants who
have a fixed place of business pay a license tax measured
by a percentage of all their purchases; and if they are
also licensed by the town or city in which they have their
place of business or, in lieu thereof, are taxed by such
town or city on the capital employed in the business, they
may sell and deliver at the same time and place anywhere in the State without payment of any additional
license tax.' Every distributing house, whether operated
by a manufacturer or wholesaler, for distributing goods
amongst the owner's retail stores, must be licensed and
pay the same tax as if it were a wholesaler.7 Retail
merchants 8 and peddlers at retail 9 must be licensed and
pay license taxes,-the former a percentage of the value
of his purchases and the latter a fixed annual fee. Those
who have no fixed place of business, who peddle their
wares only to licensed dealers or retailers at the places
of business of the latter, fall into none of the described
classes. As the court below points out, were it not for
'Armour & Co. v. Virginia, 246 U. S. 1, and cases therein cited.
'Tax Code of Virginia, 1936, §§ 73, 188, Va. Code, 1936, Michie,
pp. 2416, 2451.
'Tax Code of Virginia, § 188, Va. Code, 1936, Michie, pp. 24512452.
Ibid.
'Ibid.
Id., § 192, Va. Code, 1936, Michie, p. 2457.

CITY BANK CO. v. HELVERING.
117

Syllabus.

§ 192b, such peddlers would be the only vendors in Virginia to escape some form of taxation.
Peddlers at wholesale are not entitled to be licensed
and taxed on the same basis as other vendors, as respects
either form or amount. As we have repeatedly held,
the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment does not prevent a State from classifying businesses
for taxation or impose any iron rule of equality. 0 Some
occupations may be taxed though others are not. Some
may be taxed at one rate, others at a different rate.
Classification is not discrimination. It is enough that
those in the same class are treated with equality. That
is true here.
Affirmed.
CITY BANK FARMERS TRUST CO., TRUSTEE, v.
HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
ON WRITS OF CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.

Nos. 408 and 409.

Argued April 1, 1941.-Decided April 28, 1941.

The administration of a trust by a testamentary trustee whose duties

and activities are confined to holding and safeguarding a fund of
stocks and bonds, collecting income, making safe investments and
reinvestments, distributing income to beneficiaries, keeping accounts, preparing and filing income tax returns, etc., is not a
"carrying on business" within § 23 (a) of the Revenue Act of
1928. Hence the commissions allowed and paid the trustee are
not deductible under that section as expenses of carrying on a
business. In computing the taxable income the trust is subject
to the same rules as an individual, Revenue Act, 1928, §§ 161-162.
Higgins v. Commissioner, 312 U. S. 212, followed. P. 124.
112 F. 2d 457, affirmed.
'"State Board of Tax Commissioners v. Jackson, 283 U. S. 527, 537,
and cases cited.

