OCTOBER TERM, 1940.

236

Argument for Respondents.

4

313 U. S.

The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded
to the New York Supreme Court for proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
OLSEN, SECRETARY OF LABOR OF NEBRASKA, v.

NEBRASKA EX REL. WESTERN REFERENCE &
BOND ASSOCIATION, INC., ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEBRASKA.

No. 671. Argued April 8, 9, 1941.-Decided April 28, 1941.
1. A Nebraska statute limiting the amount of the fee which may be
charged by private employment agencies, to ten per cent. of the
first month's salary or wages of the person for whom employment
was obtained, held consistent with due process of law. Ribnik v.
McBride, 277 U. S. 350, overruled. P. 243.
2. The wisdom, need and appropriateness of this legislation are for
the State to determine. P. 246.
138 Neb, 574; 293 N. W. 393, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

312 U. S. 673, to review a judgment for a

peremptory writ of mandamus requiring the Secretary of
Labor of the State of Nebraska to issue licenses for the
operation of private employment agencies. The abovenamed association was the original relator. A number
of other employment agencies, which sought and obtained the same relief by intervention, were also respondents in this court. Mr. Olsen was substituted for his
predecessor in office, Mr. Kinney, post, p. 541.
Mr. Don Kelley, Assistant Attorney GeneraI of Nebraska, with whom Mr. Walter R. Johnson, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Walter Gordon Merritt for respondents.
The statute violates the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Ribnik v. McBride, 277 U. S. 350,
359.

OLSEN v. NEBRASKA.
236

Argument for Respondents.

The Act imposes a maximum limit on the fees to be
charged, and forbids the exaction of any other "compensation or reward," regardless of the amount of service
rendered, or the expense of placing the employee. Moreover, if the employee arbitrarily rejects the position offered, any fee paid beyond the registration fee must be
returned. If the employee remains less than a week in
the job, whether due to his own fault or the fault of his
employer, the agency is required to repay all fees in excess of the registration fee, either to the employee or his
employer, as the case may be.
The statute upon its face-and particularly as applied
to executive, technical and professional employment-is
far more-arbitrary and unreasonable than the statute in
the Ribnik case.
The Ribnik case has been recognized as established law
in many subsequent cases in this Court and has never
been disapproved or overruled. Williams v. Standard
Oil Co., 278 U. S. 235, 239; Tagg Bros. v. United States,
280 U. S. 420, 438-9; Near v. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 697,
707-8; Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S. 502, 536-7; Old
Dearborn Distributing Co. v. Seagram-Distillers Corp.,
299 U. S. 183, 192; United States v. Rock Royal Co-operative, 307 U. S. 533, 570.
Freedom of contract is the general rule and restraint
the exception. Legislative abridgment of this freedom
can be justified only by exceptional circumstances. Cf.,
Chas. Wolff Packing Co. v. Industrial Court, 262 U. S.
522, 534; s. c., 267 U. S. 552, 566. See, also, Liggett v.
Baldridge, 278 U. S. 105, 111; Nebbia v. New York, 291
U. S. 502, 523; Old Dearborn Co. v. Seagram-Distillers
Corp., 299 U. S. 183, 192.
Special circumstances creating exceptions must be
shown in order to support such drastic regulation as
price-fixing. In some cases, they may appear from the
inherent nature of the subject matter regulated, while in

238

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Respondents.

313 U. S.

other cases the burden of proof is on him who challenges
the validity of the act. See Liggett Co. v. Baldridge,
278 U. S. 105. Here, a presumption arises from the
Ribnik case that legislative price-fixing, as applied to
employment exchanges, is arbitrary and unreasonable;
and the burden of overcoming that presumption rests
upon the petitioner.
If the power to fix maximum wages is added to the
power to fix minimum wages, there is little left of the
personal liberty to make contracts, which is both a right
of liberty and property. Can it be said that fixing maximum fees for securing positions for executive, technical
and professional workers is any more subject to legislative control than are the salaries of such classes of
workers? These occupations involve a class of people
who have not been thought to be in need of special protection from exploitation.
It was said in Near v. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 697, 708,
that "The power of the state stops short of interference
with what are deemed to be certain indispensable requirements of the liberty assured, notably with respect
to the fixing of prices and wages."
In Tyson & Brother v. Banton, 273 U. S. 418, and the
Ribnik case this Court struck down attempts at legislative price-fixing for personal services. In Wilson v.
New, 243 U. S. 332, the Court denied such power except
to meet the temporary emergency of a threatened railroad strike.
In a different class are minimum wage laws. West
Coast Hotel Co. v. Parrish,300 U. S. 379; United States
v. Darby, 312 U. S. 100.
In O'Gorman & Young v. Hartford Fire Ins. Co., 282
U. S. 251, the Court laid stress upon the fact that the
insurance business is so far affected with a public interest that the State may regulate the rates. German Alliance Ins. Co.. v. Lewis, 233 U. S. 389. The Court was

OLSEN v. NEBRASKA.
236

Argument for Respondents.

dealing with an activity which traditionally was subjected to far-reaching regulations of various kinds, including rate-fixing. Tagg Bros & Moorhead v. United
States, 280 U. S. 420; Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S. 495.
The Court held in the Tagg Bros. case that the statute
and the orders issued by the Secretary of Agriculture,
fixing charges by market agencies, were valid, but emphasized the fact that these agencies had a monopoly and
were accustomed to fix prices by agreement among themselves.
Thus far only has this Court gone in fixing maximum
charges for personal services. Dist'g Townsend v. Yeomans, 301 U. S. 441, and Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113.
In the case of employment exchanges, and particularly
those providing employment for executives, technicians
and professional men, services rendered are not capable of
standardization without arbitrariness, as has already been
found by this Court, and as was found in effect by the
Nebraska Supreme Court in this case.
Legislative limitation on maximum fees for employment agencies is certain to react unfavorably upon those
members of the community for whom it is most difficult
to obtain jobs.
The argument showing the impracticability and injustice of such regulation is entitled to special consideration as respects an industry which is subject to subsidized
competition from free public employment exchanges in
almost every section of the Nation; so that the evil of
excessive charges, whatever may have been its extent in
the past, no longer exists. No one wishes unnecessarily
to destroy the liberty of people to serve and be served on
terms agreed upon, or to reduce unnecessarily the circle
of constitutional liberty.
Because of increasing competition of the public employment agencies, as well as the increasing number of

240

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

charitable, labor union and employer association employment agencies, any tendency of the past toward excessive fees by private employment agencies must have
come to an end. Those private agencies which have not
been put out of business by competition, publicly subsidized, can no longer hope to collect excessive fees.
There is therefore no constitutional base for regulating
their charges. See the dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice
Stone in Ribnik v. McBride, 277 U. S. 350, 360; Lawton
v. Steele, 152 U. S. 133, 137.
In Wolff Co. v. Industrial Court, 262 U. S. 522, 535-6,
the Court deals, in detail, with the classification of industries which may be subject to price regulation, and points
to the fact that this includes a group of occupations
which may be subject to such changing circumstances as
to result in their being transferred to the group which is
affected with the public interest.
Accord: Tyson & Bro. v. Banton, 273 U. S. 418, 431;
Ribnik v. McBride, 277 U. S. 350, 355; Williams v.
Standard Oil Co., 278 U. S. 235, 239; New State Ice Co.
v. Liebman, 285 U. S. 262, 277; Nebbia v. New York, 291
U. S. 502, 536; Old Dearborn Distributing Co. v. Seagram-DistillersCorp., 299 U. S. 183, 192.
Other cases indicate that the limits of constitutional
power in cases of this character may hinge on changing
conditions in respect to the evil or emergency justifying
such a drastic intrusion on liberty. Wilson v. New, 243
U. S. 332; Block v. Hirsh, 256 U. S. 135; Marcus Brown
Holding Co. v. Feldman, 256 U. S. 170; Pennsylvania
Coal Co. v. Mahon, 260 U. S. 393.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In reliance upon Ribnik v. McBride, 277 U. S. 350, the
Supreme Court of Nebraska held, one judge dissenting,

OLSEN v. NEBRASKA.

241

Opinion of the Court.

236

that a statute of that state fixing the maximum compensation which a private employment agency might collect
from an applicant for employment' was unconstitu1Neb.

Comp. Stat. 1929, ยง 48-508:

"Private Employment Agencies, Registration Fee. A registration
fee not to exceed two dollars may be charged by such licensed
agency when such agency shall be at actual expense in advertising
such individual applicant, or in looking up the reference of such applicant. In all such cases a complete record of such references shall
be kept on file which record shall, during all business hours, be open
for the inspection of the secretary of labor, the chief deputy secretary
of labor, or any other inspector appointed by the secretary of labor
to make such inspection, and upon demand shall be subject to the
inspection and examination by the applicant. For such registration
fee a receipt shall be given to said applicant for help or employment, giving name of such applicant, date of payment and character
of position or help applied for. Such registration fee shall be returned to said applicants on demand, after thirty days and within
sixty days from date of receipt, less the amount'that has been
actually expended by said licensed agency for said applicant, and
an itemized account of such expenditures shall be presented to said
applicant on request at the time of returning the unused portion of
such registration fee, provided no position has been furnished by said
licensed agency to and accepted by said applicant. No licensed
person or persons shall, as a condition to registering or obtaining
employment for such applicant, require such applicant to subscribe
to any publication or exact other fees, compensation or reward, other
than the registration fee, aforesaid, and a further fee, the amount
of which shall be agreed upon between such applicant and such
licensed person, to be payable at such time as may be agreed upon
in writing, 'the amount of which, together with said registration fee
of $2.00 added thereto shall in no case exceed 10 per cent of all
moneys paid to or to be paid or earned by said applicant, for the
first month's service growing out of said employment furnished by
said employer. Provided, however, that if through no fault of said
applicant or employee, he fails to remain in service with said employer and other positions or places of employment are furnished
to said applicant by said licensed agency, then said licensed agency
shall not accept, collect or charge more than one fee every three
months,' but the further fee aforesaid shall not be received by such
licensed person before the applicant has been tendered a position
326252'---41-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

tional' under the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. 138 Neb. 574, 293 N. W. 393. The case
is here on a petition for certiorari which we granted beby said licensed person. In the event that the position, so tendered
is not accepted by or given such applicant, said licensed person
shall refund all fees requested by said applicant, other than the
registration fees aforesaid within three days after demand is made
therefor. No such licensed person shall send out any applicant
for employment without having obtained a bona fide order therefor,
and if it shall appear that no employment of the kind applied for
existed at the place where said applicant was directed, said licensed
person shall refund to such applicant within five days after demand,
any sum paid by such applicant for transportation in going to and
returning from said place and all fees paid by said applicant. In
addition to the receipt provided to be given for registration fee it
shall be the duty of such licensed person to give, to every applicant
for employment from whom other fee or fees shall be received, an
additional receipt, in which shall be stated the name of such applicant, the date and amount of such other fees; and to every applicant for help from whom other fee or fees shall be received, an
additional receipt, stating the name and address of said applicant,
the date and amount of such other fee or fees, and the kind of
help to be provided. All receipts shall have printed on the back
thereof, in the English language, the name and address of the state
secretary of labor and the chief deputy secretary of labor. Every
such licensed person shall give to every applicant for employment, a
card or printed paper containing the name of the applicant, the
name and address of such employment agency, and the written
name and address of the person to whom the applicant is sent for
employment. If an employee furnished fails to remain one week
in a situation, through no fault of the employer, then all fees paid
or pledged, in excess of the registration fee aforesaid, shall be refunded to the employer upon demand. If the employment furnished
the applicant does not continue more than one week, through no
fault of the employee, then all fees paid or pledged, in excess of
the registration fee aforesaid, shall be refunded to the employee upon
demand."
'The court upheld those provisions of the statute under ยง 3, Art.
I of the Nebraska Constitution which provides that "No person
shall be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process
of law." See Art. XV, ยง 9.

OLSEN v. NEBRASKA.
236

Opinion of the Court.

cause of the importance of the constitutional question
which was raised.
The action is for a peremptory writ of mandamus
ordering petitioner, Secretary of Labor of Nebraska, to
issue a license to the relator ' to operate a private employment agency for the year commencing May 1, 1940.
The license was withheld because of relator's refusal to
limit its maximum compensation, as provided by the
statute, to ten per cent of the first month's salary or
wages of the person for whom employment was obtained.
The petition in mandamus challenged the constitutionality of those provisions of the act.' The answer sought
to sustain them by alleging that the business of a private
employment agency is "vitally affected with a public
interest" and subject to such regulation under the police
power of the state. The relator's motion for judgment
on the pleadings was sustained and it was ordered that
a peremptory writ of mandamus should issue.
We disagree with the Supreme Court of Nebraska.
The statutory provisions in question do not violate the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
'The

petition in mandamus was filed by respondent Western

Reference & Bond Assn., Inc. The other respondents are Mills
Teachers Agency, Thomas Employment Service, Co-Operative Reference Co., Marti Reference Co., Watts Reference Co., Cornhusker
Teachers Bureau, Grace Boomer, and Davis School Service, who
intervened in the action and challenged the constitutionality of the
act. Their petition of intervention stated that they, as well as the
relator, confine their business "to soliciting and securing positions
for clerical, executive, technical and professional workers, and do
not engage in the business of securing placements for common laborers, domestic servants or other classes of unskilled workers." That
seems to be conceded.
'By stipulation filed in the state court it was agreed that the
"sole and only issue for determination" was the constitutionality of
the act "in so far as the same fixes or limits the fees or compensation of private employment agencies."

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

The drift away from Ribnik v. 'McBride, supra, has
been so great that it can no longer be deemed a controlling authority. It was decided in 1928. In the following year this Court held that Tennessee had no power
to fix prices at which gasoline might be sold in the state.
Williams v. Standard Oil Co., 278 U. S. 235. Save for
that decision and Morehead v. Tipaldo, 298 U. S. 587,
holding unconstitutional a New York statute authorizing
the fixing of women's wages, the subsequent cases in
this Court have given increasingly wider scope to the
price-fixing powers of the states and of Congress.' Tagg
Bros. v. United States, 280 U. S. 420, decided in 1930,
upheld the power of the Secretary of Agriculture under
the Packers and Stockyards Act to determine the just
and reasonable charges of persons engaged in the business of buying and selling in interstate commerce livestock at a stockyard on a commission basis. In 1931 a
New Jersey statute limiting commissions of agents of
fire insurance companies was sustained by O'Gorman &
Young v. Hartford Fire Ins. Co., 282 U. S. 251. A New
York statute authorizing the fixing of minimum and
maximum retail prices for milk was upheld in 1934.
Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S. 502. And see Hegeman
Farms Corp. v. Baldwin, 293 U. S. 163; Borden's Farm
Products Co. v. Ten Eyck, 297 U. S. 251. Cf. Baldwin
v. G. A. F. Seelig, Inc., 294 U. S. 511; Mayflower Farms
v. Ten Eyck, 297 U. S. 266. In 1937 Adkins v. Children's Hospital, 261 U. S. 525, was overruled and a statute
of Washington which authorized the fixing of minimum
wages for women and minors was sustained. West
Coast Hotel Co. v. Parrish,300 U. S. 379. In the same
year, Townsend v. Yeomans, 301 U. S. 441, upheld a
'But see New State Ice Co. v. Liebmann, 285 U. S. 262; Old
Dearborn Distributing Co. v. Seagram-Distillers Corp., 299 U. S.
183, 192; Carter v. Carter Coal Co., 298 U. S. 238, 316.

OLSEN v. NEBRASKA.
236

Opinion of the Court.

Georgia statute fixing maximum warehouse charges for
the handling and selling of leaf tobacco. Cf. Mulford v.
Smith, 307 U. S.38; Currinv. Wallace, 306 U. S.1. The
power of Congress under the commerce clause to authorize the fixing of minimum prices for milk was upheld
in United States v. Rock Royal Co-operative, 307 U. S.
533, decided in 1939. The next year the price-fixing provisions of the Bituminous Coal Act of 1937 were sustained. Sunshine Coal Co. v. Adkins, 310 U. S. 381.
And at this term we upheld the minimum wage and
maximum hour provisions of the Fair Labor Standards
Act of 1938. United States v. Darby, 312 U. S. 100.
These cases rejresent more than scattered examples of
constitutionally permissible price-fixing schemes. They
represent in large measure a basic departure from the
philosophy and approach of the majority in the Ribnik
case. The standard there employed, following that used
in Tyson & Brother v. Banton, 273 U. S.418, 430 et seq.,
was that the constitutional validity of price-fixing legislation, at least in absence of a so-called emergency,"
was dependent on whether or not the business in question was "affected with a public interest." Cf. Brazee v.
Michigan, 241 U. S.340. It was said to be so affected
if it had been "devoted to the public use" and if "an
interest in effect" had been granted "to the public in that
use." Ribnik v. McBride, supra, p. 355. That test,
labelled by Mr. Justice Holmes in his dissent in the
Tyson case (273 U. S. at p. 446) as "little more than a
fiction," was discarded in Nebbia v. New York, supra,
pp. 531-539. It was there stated that such criteria "are
not susceptible of definition and form an unsatisfactory
test of the constitutionality of legislation directed at
business practices or prices," and that the phrase "affected with a public interest" can mean "no more than
Cf. Highland v. Russell Car & Snow Plow Co., 279 U. S. 253..

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

that an industry, for adequate reason, is subject to control for the public good." Id., p. 536. And see the
dissenting opinion in Ribnik v. McBride, supra, at
p. 359.
The Ribnik case, freed from the test which it employed, can no longer survive. But respondents maintain that the statute here in question is invalid for other
reasons. They insist that special circumstances must be
shown to support the validity of such drastic legislation
as price-fixing, that the executive, technical and professional workers which respondents serve have not been
shown to be in need of special protection from exploitation, that legislative limitation of maximIm fees for employment agencies is certain to react unfavorably upon
those members of the community for whom it is most
difficult to obtain jobs, that the increasing competition
of public employment agencies and of charitable, labor
union and employer association employment agencies
have curbed excessive fees by private agencies, and that
there is nothing in this record to overcome the presumption as to the result of the operation of such competitive,
economic forces. And in the latter connection respondents urge that, since no circumstances are shown which
curb competition between the private agencies and the
other types of agencies, there are no conditions which
the legislature might reasonably believe would redound
to the public injury unless corrected by such legislation.
We are not concerned, however, with the wisdom,
need, or appropriateness of the legislation. Differences
of opinion on that score suggest a choice which "should
be left where . . . it was left by the Constitution-to
the States and to Congress." Ribnik v. McBride, supra,
at p. 375, dissenting opinion. There isl no necessity for
the state to demonstrate before us that evils persist despite the competition which attends the bargaining in
this field. In final analysis, the only constitutional pro-

HELVERING v. FLACCUS LEATHER CO. 247
236

Statement of the Case.

hibitions or restraints which respondents have suggested
for the invalidation of this legislation are those notions
of public policy embedded in earlier decisions of this
Court but which, as Mr. Justice Holmes long admonished, should not be read into the Constitution. Tyson
& Brother v. Banton, supra, at p. 446; Adkins v. Children's Hospital, supra, at p. 570. Since they do not find
expression in the Constitution, we cannot give them continuing vitality as standards by which the constitutionality of the economic and social programs of the states is
to be determined.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded to
the Supreme Court of Nebraska for proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
OAK
v. WILLIAM
FLACCUS
REVENUE,
CO.
LEATHER
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 627. Argued April 3, 1941.-Decided April 28, 1941.
A sum received by a taxpayer as proceeds of insurance on buildings
and equipment destroyed by fire (no part of the sum so received
having been expended to replace the destroyed property, which
prior to 1935 had been completely depreciated for income tax
purposes), held not a gain from the "sale or exchange" of capital
assets within the meaning of ยง 117 (d) of the Revenue Act of
1934. P. 249.
114 F. 2d 783, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 312 U.'S. 671, to review the reversal of a
decision of the Board of Tax Appeals which sustained
the Commissioner's determination of a deficiency in
income tax.

