LABOR BOARD v. WHITE SWAN CO.
Counsel for Parties.

NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v. WHITE
SWAN CO.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 529.

Argued March 10, 1941.-Decided March 31, 1941.

1. Questions certified by the Circuit Court of Appeals in this case,
involving the validity of an order of the National Labor Relations Board which required a company, engaged in the operation
of a laundry and dry cleaning business located in a city on a state
line, to cease and desist from certain unfair labor practices and
to offer employment with back pay to certain employees found to
have been discharged because of union affiliation and activities,
held defective because of "objectionable generality," since the
questions do not reflect the precise conclusions of the Board and
the precise findings on which those conclusions were based; and
also because, even if they did reflect those conclusions and findings, they would call for a "decision of the whole case." P. 27.
2. The necessity in this case of making a supposition as to the sense
in which the Board made its finding under § 10 (a) that the unfair
labor practices were "affecting commerce," reveals the hypothetical
and abstract quality of the questions certified. P. 27.
Certificate dismissed.

CERTIFICATE from the Circuit Court of Appeals upon a
petition to that court for enforcement of an order of the
National Labor Relations Board. 19 N. L. R. B. 1079.

Mr. Warner W. Gardner argued the cause, and Solicitor General Biddle and Messrs. Arnold Raum, Robert
B.

Watts, Laurence A. Knapp, and Mortimer B.

Wolf

were on the brief, for the National Labor Relations

Board.
Mr. H. C. A. Hofacker for the White Swan Company.

24

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

MR. Jus icE DOUGLAs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
A certificate from the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Fourth Circuit submitted pursuant to § 239 of the Judicial Code (28 U. S. C. § 346) is as follows:
This is a petition for enforcement of an order of the
National Labor Relations Board, which directed the
White Swan Company, a corporation of Wheeling, West
Virginia, engaged in the operation of a laundry and dry
cleaning business, to cease and desist from certain unfair
labor practices and to offer employment with back pay
to certain employees held to have been discharged because of union affiliation and activities. The findings
of the Board with respect to the unfair labor practices
and discriminatory discharge of employees are sustained
by substantial evidence; but a question has arisen, as
to which the members of the Court are divided and in
doubt, with respect to the jurisdiction of the Board in
the premises.
The respondent, White Swan Company, operates a
combined laundry and dry cleaning establishment in the
city of Wheeling, West Virginia. While certain of its
supplies are obtained from without the state, the volume
of the interstate business thus involved is not sufficient,
in our opinion, to bring the business within the jurisdiction of the Board. The record shows that these supplies
consist of soap, bluing, bleach, solvent, coal, water, paper,
tape and padding, and that respondent's purchases thereof during 1938 amounted to $38,333.15, of which 310,810.90 came from without the state. Respondent, however, operates delivery trucks in Ohio as well as in West
Virginia, three of the delivery routes from its plant being in Ohio and eleven in West Virginia. The business
involved is necessarily of a purely local character, as the
record shows that a radius of fifteen miles is the practical limit for a laundry or dry-cleaning business in this
territory. The fact that business is done in Ohio outside
the state in which respondent's laundry is located, results from the fact that this purely local business is

LABOR BOARD v. WHITE SWAN CO.
23

Opinion of the Court.

located in a city on a state line. Respondent transports
garments in its trucks from those of its customers who
reside in Ohio to its plant in West Virginia to be serviced,
and then after servicing returns the garments in its
trucks to the customers. Approximately 12.93 per cent
of its gross income for 1938 was derived from this source.
In addition thereto, approximately 5 per cent of its gross
income during 1938 was derived from the servicing of
garments which persons not in its employment collected
in Ohio, brought to its plant for servicing and delivered
in Ohio after they had been serviced. Respondent's
total gross income in 1938 was $128,752.96. The total
income from the business obtained from persons in Ohio
during this period was $28,088.43.
We recognize that the collection and delivery of garments across state lines, as above described, constitutes
interstate commerce. We are advertent, however, to the
admonition of the court that in applying the act we are
to bear in mind "the distinction between what is national and what is local in the activities of commerce."
N. L. R. B. v. Jones & Laughlin (301 U. S. 1, 30). And
although the letter of the National Labor Relations Act
may cover such collections and deliveries in interstate
commerce as are here involved, the question arises
whether a proper interpretation of the Act, in view of
the intent of Congress, would include them. Cf. United
States v. Sorrells, 287 U. S. 435, 446. We are divided and
in doubt as to whether such collection and delivery, which
results from the fact that business of a local character,
such as a laundry, is located on a state line, is sufficient
to bring such business within the jurisdiction of the
Board under the National Labor Relations Act. To so
hold would be to bring under the jurisdiction of the
Board a great variety of businesses of purely local character simply because they maintain a delivery service in
cities located on state lines. As there are many such
cities in the United States, the question seems to us one
of sufficient importance to justify us in certifying it to
the Supreme Court so that it may be definitely settled.
Being divided and in doubt, therefore, this Court respectfully certifies to the Supreme Court of the United
States, for its instruction and advice, the following ques-

26

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

tions of law, the determination of which is indispensable
to a proper decision of the case.
1. Should the National Labor Relations Act be interpreted as having application to a business of purely local
character, such as a laundry, merely because such business is located in a city on a state line and derives a substantial portion of its income from business which involves collections or deliveries of articles in a state other
than that in which the business is located?
2. Where a local business, such as a laundry, is located
in a city on a state line, and is not engaged in interstate commerce, except in so far as it may collect articles
to be serviced and may make deliveries to customers living across the state line, is such business, by reason of
such collections and deliveries, deemed engaged in "commerce" within the meaning of Subsection 6 of Section 2
of the Act of July 5, 1935, ch. 372, 29 U. S. C. A. 152 (6),
so that an unfair labor practice on its part would be an
unfair labor practice "affecting commerce" within the
meaning of Subsection 7 of said section (29 U. S. C. A.
152 (7)) and Subsection (a) of Section 10, 29 U. S. C. A.
160 (a) ?I
-The certificate must be dismissed.
By § 10 (a) of the National Labor Relations Act (49
Stat. 449, 453; 29 U. S. C. § 160 (a)) the Board is empowered "to prevent any person from engaging in any
unfair labor practice (listed in section 8) affecting commerce." The term "affecting commerce" is defined in
§ 2 (7) as "in commerce, or burdening or obstructing commerce or the free flow of commerce, or having led or
tending to lead to a labor dispute burdening or obstructing commerce or the free flow of commerce." And
"commerce" by § 2 (6) is defined so as to include "trade,
traffic, commerce, transportation, or communication
among the several States." On a review of an order of
1The

court denied a motion made by the Solicitor General to

amend the certificate by embodying the purchase of supplies in inter-

state commerce as well as the collections and deliveries.

LABOR BOARD v. WHITE SWAN CO.
23

Opinion of the Court.

the Board in a Circuit Court of Appeals the "findings of
the Board as to the facts, if supported by evidence, shall
be conclusive." § 10 (e).
The questions do not focus "the controversy in its setting." Lowden v. Northwestern National Bank & Trwst
Co., 298 U. S. 160, 163. From the certificate we do not
know on what grounds the Board based its jurisdictionthat the business was "in commerce" or that it was embraced within the other categories described in § 2 (7) of
the Act. The terms "business of purely local character"
and "local business" are meaningful for purposes of
§ 10 (a) of the Act only in light of specific findings of
the Board. To answer the questions we would have to
make a supposition as to the sense in which the Board
made its finding under § 10 (a) that the unfair labor
practices were "affecting commerce." The necessity of
making that supposition reveals the hypothetical and abstract quality of the questions. And the fact that on the
whole record the answer might be clear whichever the
theory of the Board's findings does not make the questions any 'the less defective. The reviewing court is passing on the validity of a specific order of the Board.
Since the questions certified do not reflect the precise
conclusions of the Board and the precise findings on
which those conclusions were based, they necessarily have
an "objectionable generality." See United States v.
Mayer, 235 U. S. 55, 56; White v. Johnson, 282 U. S. 367
371; Triplett v. Lowell, 297 U. S. 638, 648; Atlas Life
Ins. Co. v. W. I. Southern, Inc., 306 U. S. 563, 571;
Pflueger v. Sherman, 293 U. S. 55, 57, 58. And if, in
this case, they did reflect those conclusions and findings,
they would be defective as calling for a "decision of the
whole case." News Syndicate Co. v. New York Central
R. Co., 275 U. S. 179, 188.
Dismissed.

