UNITED STATES v. CLASSIC.

299

Syllabus.

UNITED STATES v. CLASSIC ET

AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 618.

Argued April 7, 1941.-Decided May 26, 1941.

1. Review under the Criminal Appeals Act of a judgment sustaining a
demurrer to an indictment is confined to the questions of statutory
construction and validity decided by the District Court. P. 309.
2. In Louisiana, a primary election to nominate a party candidate for
the office of Representative in Congress is conducted at the public
expense and regulated by statute. Candidates who may be voted
for at general elections are restricted to primary nominees; to persons, not candidates in the primary, who file nomination papers with
the requisite number of signatures; and to persons whose names may
be lawfully written into the ballots by the electors. The practical
effect is to impose serious restrictions upon the choice of candidates
by the voters save by voting at the primary election. The primary
election is an integral part of the procedure for choosing Representatives; and in this case, as alleged by the indictment, its practical
operation, in the particular Congressional District involved, is to
secure the election of the primary nominee of a particular political
party. P. 311 et seq.
3. The right of the people to choose Representatives in Congress is
a right established and guaranteed by Art. I, § 2 of the Constitution
and hence is one secured by it to those citizens and inhabitants of
the State who are entitled to exercise the right. P. 314.
The right to vote for Representatives in Congress is a right "derived from the States," only in the sense that the States are authorized by the Constitution to legislate on the subject, as provided by
§ 2 of Art. I, to the extent that Congress has not restricted state action
by the exercise of its powers to regulate elections under § 4, and its
more general power, under Art. I, § 8, cl. 18, "to make all laws which
shall be necessary and proper for carrying into execution the foregoing powers."
4. Included within the right to choose, secured by the Constitution, is
the right ol qualified voters within a State to cast their ballots and
have them counted at Congressional elections. P. 315.
Since the constitutional command is without restriction or limitation, this right, unlike those guaranteed by the Fourteenth and Fif-

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

313 U. S.

teenth Amendments, is secured against the action of individuals as
well as of States.
5. Where the state law has made the primary election an integral
part of the procedure of choosing Representatives, or where in fact
the primary effectively controls the choice, the right of the qualified
elector to vote and have his ballot counted at the primary, is part of
the right to choose Representatives secured by Art. I, § 2. P. 316.
In determining whether a provision of the Constitution applies
to a new subject matter, it is of little significance that it is one with
which the framers were not familiar. For in setting up an enduring
framework of government they undertook to carry out for the indefinite future and in all the vicissitudes of the changing affairs of
men, those fundamental purposes which the instrument itself discloses. Hence we read its words, not as we read legislative codes
which are subject to continuous revision with the changing course
of events, but as the revelation of the great purposes which were
intended to be achieved by the Constitution as a continuing instrument of government.
6. A primary election which is a necessary step in the choice of candidates for election as Representatives in Congress, and which in the
circumstances of the case controls that choice, is an election within
the meaning of Art. I, §§ 2 and 4 of the Constitution, and is subject
to Congressional regulation as to the manner of holding it. P. 317.
7. Art. I, § 8, cl. 18 of the Constitution empowers Congress to safeguard by appropriate legislation the right of choice by the people
of Representatives in Congress secured by § 2 of Art. I. P. 320.
8. Section 19 of the Criminal Code, making it a crime to conspire
to "injure" or "oppress" any citizen "in the free exercise of any
right or privilege secured to him by the Constitution," embraces
a conspiracy to prevent qualified voters from exercising their
constitutional right of voting, and having their votes counted,
in a primary election prerequisite to the choice of party candidates for a Congressional election. P. 321.
9. Section 20 of the Criminal Code provides that whoever, "under
color of any law," willfully subjects any inhabitant of any State
to the deprivation of any rights, privileges or immunities secured
or protected by the Constitution and laws of the United States
"or to different punishments, pains, or penalties, on account of
such inhabitant being an alien, or by reason of his color, or race,
than are prescribed for the punishment of citizens," shall be punished as prescribed. Held:

UNITED STATES v. CLASSIC.
299

Argument for the United States.

(1) The acts of election officials who conducted a primary election to nominate a party candidate for Representative in Congress in willfully altering and falsely counting and certifying the
ballots, were acts under color of state law depriving the voter
of constitutional rights within the meaning of the section. P. 325.
(2) The section authorizes punishment for two different offenses: The offense of willfully subjecting any inhabitant to the
deprivation of rights secured by the Constitution, and the offense
of willfully subjecting any inhabitant to different punishments
on account of his alienage, color or race, than are prescribed for
the punishment of citizens. P. 327.
10. The Court declines to consider the application of § 20 to deprivations of the right to equal protection of the laws guaranteed by
the Fourteenth Amendment, a point apparently raised for the first
time by the Government's brief in this Court and not assigned
as error. Since the indictment on its face does not purport to
charge a deprivation of equal protection to voters or candidates,
the Court is not called upon to construe the indictment in order
to raise a question of statutory validity or construction. P. 329.
35 F. Supp. 66, reversed.
APPEAL

from an order of the District Court sustaining

a demurrer to two counts of an indictment.
Mr. Herbert Wechsler, with whom Solicitor General
Biddle, Assistant Attorney General Berge, and Messrs.
Warner W. Gardner, Alfred B. Teton, Rene A. Viosca,
and Robert Weinstein were on the brief, for the United
States.
The right to choose members of Congress is secured and
protected by § 2 of Art. I of the Constitution, against
interference by private individuals, as well as against
interference by action of the States. Congress may protect the rights by providing for the punishment of both
types of interference and has done so by §§ 19 and 20
of the Criminal Code.
As a matter of law, the Louisiana primary elections
determine the candidates at the general election. As a
matter of unbroken practice, the Democratic primary

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for the United States.

313 U. S.

election determines the victor at the general election.
Either of these considerations demonstrates that the
right to choose Representatives, secured by § 2 of Art. I,
reaches to the Louisiana primary.
If the machinery of choice involves two elections, primary and general, rather than one, the right to participate in the choice must include both steps.
Art. I, § 2 applies to the decisive phase of the process by
which Representatives are chosen. Cf., United States v.
Wood, 299 U. S. 123, 143. The framers may not have anticipated the primary, but they gave to the qualified electors of the States the right to choose their Representatives
in Congress.
The chief source of serious disagreement at the Constitutional Convention, so far as the suffrage was concerned,
had to do with the qualifications of voters. United States
Documents Illustrative of the Union of the American
States (1927) 487, 488, 489, 492. It was to avoid any
obstacles to ratification which might have arisen from this
controversy that the Convention accepted the compromise
embodied in Article I, § 2. Story, Commentaries on the
Constitution of the United States (Bigelow, 5th ed. 1891),
§ 584. In the state ratifying conventions the debate
shifted to the grant of Congressional power to regulate
national elections which is contained in Article I, §4. It is
true that six States included in their resolutions of ratification the recommendation that a Constitutional
amendment be adopted to deny Congressional authority
t6 regulate elections unless the States should refuse
to provide for them or should be unable to do so because
of invasion or for any other reason. But no such amendment was ever adopted, and any lingering doubt as to the
unconditional power of Congress to regulate the conduct
of national elections was removed in Ex parteSiebold, 100
U. S. 371. Clearly neither of these disputes is relevant to

UNITED STATES v. CLASSIC.
299

Argument for the United States.

the nature and bounds of the constitutionally protected
right to choose. Indeed, the word "elected" in a draft of
the proposal which became Art. I, § 2, was eliminated by
the Committee of Detail in favor of the seemingly broader
word "chosen." Distinguishing United States v. Gradwell, 243 U. S. 476; Newberry v. United States, 256 U. S.
232; and Grovey v. Townsend, 295 U. S. 45.
Congressional practice has weight in determining the
meaning of constitutional provisions. But it is especially
significant where the practice involves a Congressional interpretation of the Constitution in a field in which Congress has an autonomous power. Cf., Smiley v. Holm, 285
U. S. 355, 369.
Voters in a primary election are denied the equal protection of the laws by state officers who refuse to count
their votes as cast and count them in favor of an opposing"
candidate. It is of no consequence that the indictment
does not count in terms upon the Fourteenth Amendment
and the right of the voters to equal protection of the laws.
The charge is laid in the language of the statute and specifies as the right "secured" and "protected" by the Constitution the right of the voters whose ballots were altered
to have their votes counted as cast. If the infringement
of that right by the alleged acts of the defendants constitutes a denial of equal protection, the District Court erred
in holding that the right is not "secured" and "protected"
by the Constitution of the United States.
Sections 19 and 20 of the Criminal Code are otherwise
applicable to the acts alleged in the indictment.
It is no more material that primary elections were unknown when the statute was passed than it would be that
a city ordinance which worked a deprivation of federal
rights was enacted after 1870 or, indeed, that the city which
enacted the ordinance was not established until after
that time. Nor is there significance in the fact that in

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Appellees.

313 U. S.

1894 Congress repealed the companion provisions of the
statute dealing with specific irregularities in elections.
United States v. Mosley, 238 U. S. 383.
Nothing in the enabling clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment suggests that legislation is not "appropriate"
to enforce the Amendment if it deals not only with rights
guaranteed by the Amendment against state action but
also with rights protected by other constitutional provisions against individual action as well. Karem v.
United States, 121 F. 250; cf., United States v. Reese, 92
U. S. 214; Flack, The Adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment, 1908, 219 et seq.; Guinn v. United States, 238 U. S.
347, 368.
Mr. Warren 0. Coleman, with whom Mr. Charles W.
Kehl was on the brief, for appellees.
The district judge correctly sustained the demurrer.
Section 19 does not apply to the affairs of a political
party in conducting a party primary. Nor could it apply to the purely private political rights of a candidate
to a vote cast by a citizen. The right to vote and to
have the vote counted as cast belongs to the citizen,
not to the candidate. United States v. Mosley, 238 U. S.
383.
The commissioners are not officers or employees of
the State. They are officers of a political party. They
act for and on behalf of the political party, and not for
and on behalf of the State, and therefore do not act
under color of any law of the State. The candidates
alone have the right to name them.
The fact that a political party, and its nominating
primary, is regulated by state law, does not make it a
creature of the State, nor does it make the party's officials, officers or employees of the State.
Primaries are in no sense elections for an office, but
merely methods by which party adherents agree upon
candidates whom they intend to offer to support for

UNITED STATES v. CLASSIC.
299

Argument for Appellees.

ultimate choice by all qualified electors. General provisions affecting elections in Constitutions or statutes are
not necessarily applicable to primaries,-the two things
being radically different. Newberry v. United States,
256 U. S. 232; United States v. Gradwell, 243 U. S. 476;
Grovey v. Townsend, 295 U. S. 45; Nixon v. Herndon, 273
U. S. 536; Nixon v. Condon, 286 U. S. 73; United States
v. O'Toole, 236 F. 993.
The state courts differentiate between a nominating
primary and an election. They have held that primary
elections to choose delegates to conventions are not
within constitutional or statutory requirements in regard to elections; that primary elections are not a part
of the general election because held at the same time as
the latter, with the same machinery, merely for convenience and economy; that primaries are not elections
within the common law meaning of the term; that laws
providing for the determination of contested elections do
not apply to primary elections; that a statute making it
a misdemeanor to place any bet or wager on any election does not apply to primaries; that a statute disqualifying a person from holding office when he shall have
given a bribe, threat or reward to secure his election does
not apply to primaries; and that it is not an offense for
officials at primaries to electioneer, when the general election laws forbid it.
If the word "elections" is held to include the manner
by which a voluntary association or political party selects its candidates by direct primary (a concept unknown by the framers of the Constitution), then Congress may pass laws to regulate the internal affairs of
political parties, and dictate the time, place and manner
of their selection or nomination of the candidate they
will support in the ensuing general election, or may prohibit the holding of primaries altogether. State v. Simmons, 117 Ark. 159.
326252.-41--2

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Appellees.

313 U. S.

In Nixon v. Herndon, 273 U. S. 536, the Court did not
adopt the theory that exclusion from a primary by specific state law would constitute a denial of the right to vote
within the meaning of the Fifteenth Amendment, but
found the law unconstitutional under the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. So in Nixon
v. Condon,286 U. S. 73.
The power conferred upon Congress in § 4 of Art. I is a
limited power. It was not intended to deprive the people
of the States of their freedom with respect to their political
activities.
Since Congress asserted its power to the fullest extent,
in the enforcement Act of 1870, the limitation upon its
power is illustrated by a consideration of the history of
those bills in United States v. Gradwell, 243 U. S.476,
482-484.
The Constitution gives to Congress no power to regulate the process of nomination. United States v. Gradwell, 243 U. S.476, 487-489; United States v. Blair, 250
U. S. 273, 278-279; United States v. O'Toole, 236 F. 993,
996.
A nominating primary is not an election any more than
the nominating convention, or its predecessor the caucus,
is an "election."
What the term "elections" meant at the time of the
adoption of the Article it means now. Hawke v. Smith,
253 U. S.221.
The power exercised must be found within the definition of the power conferred. See In re Debs, 158 U. S.
564,591.
The word "election" should be restricted to the welldefined meaning that it had when incorporated into the
Constitution. Cf. the Hawke case, supra, concerning the
word "Legislatures."
Other Articles of the Constitution show that the term
"elections" has exclusive reference to elections for the
office itself.

UNITED STATES v. CLASSIC.
299

Opinion of the Court.

The opponents of § 4 of Art. I were in a measure appeas ed by the assurance given them to the effect that the
clause was confined to the regulation of the times, places,
and manner of holding elections. Story on the Constitution, §§ 815-828; The Federalist, LX.
Alexander Hamilton could never have defended the
theory that the people were surrendering such rights to
the Federal Government as would authorize supervising
the methods that should be employed to enlist support
of a candidacy.
If Congress has the power which appellant seeks to attribute to it, then it has the power to abolish all primary
elections for Senators and Representatives in every State
in the Union; the power to establish conventions, to overthrow conventions, to provide any sort of a primary that
it may desire.
MR.

JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Two counts of an indictment found in a federal district
court charged that appellees, Commissioners of Elections,
conducting a primary election under Louisiana law, to
nominate a candidate of the Democratic Party for representative in Congress, willfully altered and falsely
counted and certified the ballots of voters cast in the primary election. The questions for decision are whether
the right of qualified voters to vote in the Louisiana
primary and to have their ballots counted is a right "secured by the Constitution" within the meaning of 9§ 19
and 20 of the Criminal Code, and whether the acts of
appellees charged in the indictment violate those sections.
On September 25, 1940, appellees were indicted in the
District Court for Eastern Louisiana for violations of
§§ 19 and 20 of the Criminal Code, 18 U. S. C. §§ 51, 52.
The first count of the indictment alleged that a primary
election was held on September 10, 1940, for the purpose
of nominating a candidate of the Democratic Party for

308

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

the office of Representative in Congress for the Second
Congressional District of Louisiana, to be chosen at an
election to be held on November 10th; that in that district nomination as a candidate of the Democratic Party
is and always has been equivalent to an election; that
appellees were Commissioners of Election, selected in accordance with the Louisiana law to conduct the primary
in the Second Precinct of the Tenth Ward of New Orleans,
in which there were five hundred and thirty-seven citizens
and qualified voters.
The charge, based on these allegations, was that the
appellees congpired with each other, and with others unknown, to injure and oppress citizens in the free exercise
and enjoyment of rights and privileges secured to them
by the Constitution and Laws of the United States,
namely, (1) the right of qualified voters who cast their
ballots in the primary election to have their ballots
counted as cast for the candidate of their choice, and
(2) the right of the candidates to run for the office of
Congressman and to have the votes in favor of their
nomination counted as cast. The overt acts alleged were
that the appellees altered eighty-three ballots cast for
one candidate and fourteen cast for another, marking and
counting them as votes for a third candidate, and that
they falsely certified the number of votes cast for the
respective candidates to the chairman of the Second Congressional District Committee.
The second count, repeating the allegations of fact already detailed, charged that the appellees, as Commissioners of Election, willfully and under color of law subjected registered voters at the primary who were inhabitants of Louisiana to the deprivation of rights, privileges
and immunities secured and protected by the Constitution and Laws of the United States, namely their right
to cast their votes for the candidates of their choice and
to have their votes counted as cast. It further charged

UNITED STATES v. CLASSIC.
299

Opinion of the Court.

that this deprivation was effected by the willful failure
and refusal of defendants to count the votes as cast, by
their alteration of the ballots, and by their false certification of the number of votes cast for the respective candidates in the manner already indicated.
The District Court sustained a demurrer to counts 1
and 2 on the ground that §§ 19 and 20 of the Criminal
Code, under which the .indictment was drawn, do not
apply to the state of facts disclosed by the indictment,
and that, if applied to those facts, § § 19 and 20 are without
constitutional sanction, citing United States v. Gradwell,
243 U. S.476, 488, 489; Newberry v. United States, 256
U. S. 232. The case comes here on direct appeal from
the District Court under the provisions of the Criminal
Appeals Act, Judicial Code, § 238, 18 U. S. C. § 682; 28
U. S. C. § 345, which authorize an appeal by the United
States from a decision or judgment sustaining a demurrer
to an indictment where the decision or judgment is "based
upon the invalidity or construction of the statute upon
which the indictment is founded."
Upon such an appeal our review is confined to the questions of statutory construction and validity decided by
the District Court. United States v. Patten, 226 U. S.
525; United States v. Birdsall, 233 U. S.223, 230; United
States v. Borden Co., 308 U. S.188, 192-193. Hence, we
do not pass upon various arguments advanced by appellees as to the sufficiency and construction of the indictment.
Section 19 of the Criminal Code condemns as a criminal offense any conspiracy to injure a citizen in the exercise "of any right or privilege secured to him by the
Constitution or laws of the United States." Section 20
makes it a penal offense for anyone who, acting "under
color of any law," "willfully subjects, or causes to be subjected, any inhabitant of any State . . . to the deprivation of any rights, privileges, and immunities secured and

310

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

protected by the Constitution and laws of the United
States." The Government argues that the right of a
qualified voter in a Louisiana congressional primary election to have his vote counted as cast is a right secured
by Article I, §§ 2 and 4 of the Constitution, and that a
conspiracy to deprive the citizen of that right is a violation of § 19, and also that the willful action of appellees
as state officials, in falsely counting the ballots at the
primary election and in falsely certifying the count, deprived qualified voters of that right and of the equal
protection of the laws guaranteed by the Fourteenth
Amendment, all in violation of § 20 of the Criminal Code.
Article I, § 2 of the Constitution, commands that "The
House of Representatives shall be composed of members
chosen every second Year by the People of the several
States and the Electors in each State shall have the qualifications requisite for electors of the most numerous
Branch of the State Legislature." By § 4 of the same
article "The times, places and manner of holding elections
for Senators and Representatives shall be prescribed in
each State by the Legislature thereof; but the Congress
may at any time by Law make or alter such Regulations,
except as to the Places of chusing Senators." Such right
as is secured by the Constitution to qualified voters to
choose members of the House of Representatives is thus
to be exercised in conformity to the requirements of state
law subject to the restrictions prescribed by § 2 and to the
authority conferred on Congress by § 4, to regulate the
times, places and manner of holding elections for representatives.
We look then to the statutes of Louisiana here involved
to ascertain the nature of the right which under the constitutional mandate they define and confer on the voter,
and the effect upon its exercise of the acts with which
appellees are charged, all with the view to determining,

UNITED STATES v. CLASSIC.
299

Opinion of the Court.

first, whether the right or privilege is one secured by the
Constitution of the United States, second, whether the
effect under the state statute of appellees' alleged acts is
such that they operate to injure or oppress citizens in the
exercise of that right within the meaning of § 19 and to
deprive inhabitants of the state of that right within the
meaning of § 20, and finally, whether §§ 19 and 20 respectively are in other respects applicable to the alleged
acts of appellees.
Pursuant to the authority given by § 2 of Article I
of the Constitution, and subject to the legislative power
of Congress under § 4 of Article I, and other pertinent
provisions of the Constitution, the states are given, and in
fact exercise, a wide discretion in the formulation of a
system for the choice by the people of representatives in
Congress. In common with many other states, Louisiana
has exercised that discretion by setting up machinery for
the effective choice of party candidates for representative
in Congress by primary elections, and by its laws it
eliminates or seriously restricts the candidacy at the general election of all those who are defeated at the primary.
All political parties, which are defined as those that have
cast at least 5 per cent of the total vote at specified preceding elections, are required to nominate their candidates for representative by direct primary elections.
Louisiana Act No. 46, Regular Session, 1940, §§ 1 and 3.
The primary is conducted by the state at public expense. Act No. 46, supra, § 35. The primary, as is the
general election, is subject to numerous statutory regulations as to the time, place and manner of conducting
the election, including provisions to insure that the ballots cast at the primary are correctly counted, and the
results of the count correctly recorded and certified to the
Secretary of State, whose duty it is to place the names
of the successful candidates of each party on the official

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

ballot.1 The Secretary of State is prohibited from placing on the official ballot the name of any person as a candidate for any political party not nominated in accordance with the provisions of the Act. Act 46, § 1.
One whose name does not appear on the primary ballot,
if otherwise eligible to become a candidate at the general
election, may do so in either of two ways: by filing nomination papers with the requisite number of signatures
or by having his name "written in" on the ballot on the
final election. Louisiana Act No. 224, Regular Session
1940, §§ 50, 73. Section 87 of Act No. 46 provides "No
one who participates in the primary election of any
political party shall have the right to participate in a
primary election of any other political party, with the
view of nominating opposing candidates, nor shall he
be permitted to sign any nomination for any opposing
candidate or candidates; nor shall he be permitted to
be himself a candidate in opposition to anyone nominated
at or through a primary election in which he took part."
Section 15 of Article VIII of the Constitution of Louisiana as amended by Act 80 of 1934, provides that "no
person whose name is not authorized to be printed on the
official ballot, as the nominee of a political party or as
"The ballots are printed at public expense, § 35 of Act No. 46,
Regular Session, 1940, are furnished by the Secretary of State, § 36
in a form prescribed by statute, § 37. Close supervision of the delivery of the ballots to the election commissioners is prescribed, §§
43-46. The polling places are required to be equipped to secure

secrecy, §§ 48-50; §§ 54-57. The selection of election commissioners'
is prescribed, § 61 and their duties detailed. The commissioners must
swear to conduct the election impartially, § 64 and are subject to
punishment for deliberately falsifying the returns or destroying the
lists and ballots, §§ 98, 99. They must identify by certificate the
ballot boxes used, § 67, keep a triplicate list of voters, § 68, publicly
canvass the return, § 74 and certify the same to the Secretary of
State, § 74.

UNITED STATES v. CLASSIC.
299

Opinion of the Court.

an independent candidate, shall be considered a candidate" unless he shall file in the appropriate office at
least ten days before the general election a statement
containing the correct name under which he is to be voted
for, and containing the further statement that he is willing
and consents to be voted for for that office. The article
also provides that "no commissioners of election shall
count a ballot as cast for any person whose name is not
printed on the ballot or who does not become a candidate
in the foregoing manner." Applying these provisions,
the Louisiana Court of Appeals for the Parish of Orleans
has held, in Serpas v. Trebucq, decided April 7, 1941, 1 So.
2d 346, rehearing denied with opinion April 21, 1941, 1 So.
2d 705, that an unsuccessful candidate at the primary
may not offer himself as a candidate at a general 6lection,
and that votes for him may not lawfully be written into
the ballot or counted at such an election.
The right to vote for a representative in Congress at
the general election is, as a matter of law, thus restricted
to the successful party candidate at the primary, to those
not candidates at the primary who file nomination papers,
and those whose names may be lawfully written into the
ballot by the electors. Even if, as appellees argue, contrary to the decision in Serpas v. Trebucq, supra, voters
may lawfully write into their ballots, cast at the general
election, the name of a candidate rejected at the primary
and have their ballots counted, the practical operation
of the primary law in otherwise excluding from the ballot
on the general election the names of candidates rejected
at the primary is such as to impose serious restrictions
upon the choice of candidates by the voters save by voting
at the primary election. In fact, as alleged in the indictment, the practical operation of the primary in Louisiana
is, and has been since the primary election was established
in 1900, to secure the election of the Democratic primary

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

nominee for the Second Congressional District of Louisiana.'
Interference with the right to vote in the Congressional
primary in the Second Congressional District for the
choice of Democratic candidate for Congress is thus, as
a matter of law and in fact, an interference with the
effective choice of the voters at the only stage of the election procedure when their choice is of significance, since
it is at the only stage when such interference could have
any practical effect on the ultimate result, the choice of
the Congressman to represent the district. The primary
in Louisiana is an integral part of the procedure for the
popular choice of Congressman. The right of qualified
voters to vote at the Congressional primary in Louisiana
and to-have their ballots counted is thus the right to
participate in that choice.
We come then to the question whether that right is one
secured by the Constitution. Section 2 of Article I commands that Congressmen shall be chosen by the people of
the several states by electors, the qualifications of which
it prescribes. The right of the people to choose, whatever its appropriate constitutional limitations, where in
other respects it is defined, and the mode of its exercise
is prescribed by state action in conformity to the Constitution, is a right established and guaranteed by the Constitution and hence is one secured by it to those citizens
and inhabitants of the state entitled to exercise the right.
Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651; United States v.
Mosley, 238 U. S. 383. And see Hague v. C. I. 0., 307
U. S. 496, 508, 513, 526, 527, 529, giving the same interpretation to the like phrase "rights" "secured by the
"For a discussion of the practical effect of the primary in controlling

or restricting election of candidates at general elections, see, Hasbrouck,
Party Government in the House of Representatives (1927) 172, 176,
177; Merriam and Overacker, Primary Elections (1928) 267-269;
Stoney, Suffrage in the South; 29 Survey Graphic, 163, 164.

UNITED STATES v. CLASSIC.
299

Opinion of the Court.

Constitution" appearing in § 1 of the Civil Rights Act of
1871, 17 Stat. 13. While, in a loose sense, the right to
vote for representatives in Congress is sometimes spoken
of as a right derived from the states, see Minor v. Happersett, 21 Wall. 162, 170; United States v. Reese, 92 U. S.
214, 217-218; McPherson v. Blacker, 146 U. S.1, 38-39;
Breedlove v. Suttles, 302 U. S.277, 283, this statement is
true only in the sense that the states are authorized by
the Constitution, to legislate on the subject as provided
by § 2 of Art. I, to the extent that Congress has not restricted state action by the exercise of its powers to regulate elections under § 4 and its more general power under Article I, § 8, clause 18 of the Constitution "to make
all laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into execution the foregoing powers." See Ex parte
Siebold, 100 U. S. 371; Ex parte Yarbrough, supra, 663,
664; Swafford v. Templeton, 185 U. S. 487; Wiley v.
Sinkler, 179 U. S.58, 64.
Obviously included within the right to choose, secured
by the Constitution, is the right of qualified voters within
a state to cast their ballots and have them counted at
Congressional elections. This Court has consistently
held that this is a right secured by the Constitution. Ex
parte Yarbrough, supra; Wiley v. Sinkler, supra;Swafford
v. Templeton, supra; United States v. Mosley, supra; see
Ex parte Siebold, supra; In re Coy, 127 U. S.731; Logan
v. United States, 144 U. S.263. And since the constitutional command is without restriction or limitation, the
right, unlike those guaranteed by the Fourteenth and
Fifteenth Amendments, is secured against the action of
individuals as well as of states. Ex parte Yarbrough,
supra; Logan v. United States, supra.
But we are now concerned with the question whether
the right to choose at a primary election, a candidate for
election as representative, is embraced in the right to
choose representatives secured by Article I, § 2. We may

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

assume that the framers of the Constitution in adopting

that section, did not have specifically in mind the selection and elimination of candidates for Congress by the
direct primary any more than they contemplated the application of the commerce clause to interstate telephone,
telegraph and wireless communication, which are concededly within it. But in determining whether a provision of the Constitution applies to a new subject matter,
it is of little significance that it is one with which the
framers were not familiar. For in setting up an enduring
framework of government they undertook to carry out for
the indefinite future and in all the vicissitudes of the
changing affairs of men, those fundamental purposes
which the instrument itself discloses. Hence we read its
words, not as we read legislative codes which are subject
to continuous revision with the changing course of events,
but as the revelation of the great purposes which were
intended, to be achieved by the Constitution as a continuing instrument of government. Cf. Davidson v. New
Orleans,96 U. S. 97; Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591, 595;
Robertson v. Baldwin, 165 U. S. 275, 281, 282. If we
remember that "it is a Constitution we are expounding,"
we cannot rightly prefer, of the possible meanings of its
words, that which will defeat rather than effectuate the
constitutional purpose.
That the free choice by the people of representatives
in Congress, subject only to the restrictions to be found
in §§ 2 and 4 of Article I and elsewhere in the Constitution, was one of the great purposes of our constitutional
scheme of government cannot be doubted. We cannot
regard it as any the less the constitutional purpose, or its
words as any the less guarantying the integrity of that
choice, when a state, exercising its privilege in the absence of Congressional action, changes the mode of choice
from a single step, a general election, to two, of which
the first is the choice at a primary of those candidates

UNITED STATES v. CLASSIC.
299

317

Opinion of the Court.

from whom, as a second step, the representative in
Congress is to be chosen at the election.
Nor can we say that that choice which the Constitution
protects is restricted to the second step because § 4 of
Article I, as a means of securing a free choice of representatives by the people, has authorized Congress to
regulate the manner of elections, without making any
mention of primary elections. For we think that the
authority of Congress, given by § 4, includes the authority
to regulate primary elections when, as in this case, they
are a step in the exercise by the people of their choice of
representatives in Congress. The point whether the
power conferred by § 4 includes in any circumstances the
power to regulate primary elections was reserved in United
States v. Gradwell, supra, 487. In Newberry v. United
States, supra, four Justices of this Court were of opinion
that the term "elections" in § 4 of Article I did not embrace
a primary election, since that procedure was unknown
to the framers. A fifth Justice, who with them pronounced the judgment of the Court, was of opinion that
a primary, held under a law enacted before the adoption
of the Seventeenth Amendment, for the nomination of
candidates for Senator, was not an election within the
meaning of § 4 of Article I of the Constitution, presumably because the choice of the primary imposed no legal
restrictions on the election of Senators by the state legislatures to which their election had been committed by
Article I, § 3. The remaining four Justices were of the
opinion that a primary election for the choice of candidates for Senator or Representative were elections subject
to regulation by Congress within the meaning of § 4 of
Article I. The question then has not been prejudged by
any decision of this Court.
To decide it we turn to the words of the Constitution
read in their historical setting as revealing the purpose
of its framers, and search for admissible meanings of its

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

words which, in the circumstances of their application,
will effectuate those purposes. As we have said, a dominant purpose of § 2, so far as the selection of representatives in Congress is concerned, was to secure to the people
the right to choose representatives by the designated electors, that is to say, by some form of election. Cf. the
Seventeenth Amendment as to popular "election" of
Senators. From time immemorial an election to public
office has been in point of substance no more and no less
than the expression by qualified electors of their choice
of candidates.
Long before the adoption of the Constitution the form
and mode of that expression had changed from time to
time. There is no historical warrant for supposing that
the framers were under the illusion that the method of
effecting the choice of the electors would never change
or that, if it did, the change was for that reason to be permitted to defeat the right of the people to choose representatives for Congress which the Constitution had guaranteed. The right to participate in the choice of representatives for Congress includes, as we have said, the right
to cast a ballot and to have it counted at the general
election, whether for the successful candidate or not.
Where the state law has made the primary an integral
part of the procedure of choice, or where in fact the primary effectively controls the choice, the right of the
elector to have his ballot counted at the primary is likewise included in the right protected by Article I, § 2. And
this right of participation is protected just as is the right
to vote at the election, where the primary is by law made
an integral part of the election machinery, whether the
voter exercises his right in a party primary which invariably, sometimes or never determines the ultimate choice
of the representative. Here, even apart from the circumstance that the Louisiana primary is made by law an

UNITED STATES v. CLASSIC.
299

Opinion of the Court.

integral part of the procedure of choice, the right to choose
a representative is in fact controlled by the primary because, as is alleged in the indictment, the choice of candidates at the Democratic primary determines the choice
of the elected representative. Moreover, we cannot close
our eyes to the fact, already mentioned, that the practical
influence of the choice of candidates at the primary may
be so great as to affect profoundly the choice at the general election, even though there is no effective legal prohibition upon the rejection at the election of the choice
made at the primary, and may thus operate to deprive
the voter of his constitutional right of choice. This was
noted and extensively commented upon by the concurring
Justices in Newberry v. UnitedStates, supra, 263-269, 285,
287.
Unless the constitutional protection of the integrity of
"elections" extends to primary elections, Congress is left
powerless to effect the constitutional purpose, and the
popular choice of representatives is stripped of its constitutional protection save only as Congress, by taking over
the control of state elections, may exclude from them the
influence of the state primaries.' Such an expedient would
end that state autonomy with respect to elections which
the Constitution contemplated that Congress should be
free to leave undisturbed, subject only to such minimum
regulation as it should find necessary to insure the freedom
Congress has recognized the effect of primaries on the free exercise
of the right to choose the representatives, for it has inquired into frauds
at primaries as well as at the general elections in judging the "Elections
Returns and Qualifications of its Own Members," Art. I, § 5. See
Grace v. Whaley, Hl. Rept. No. 158, 63d Cong., 2d Sess.; Peddy v. Mayfield, S. Rept. No. 973, 68th Cong., 2d Sess.; Wilson v. Vare, S. Rept.
No. 1858, 70th Cong., 2d Sess., S. Rept. No. 47, 71st Cong., 2d Sess.,
and S. Res. 111, 71st Cong., 2d Sess.
See also Investigation of Campaign Expenditures in the 1940 Campaign, S. Rept. No. 47, 77th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 48 et seq.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

and integrity of the choice. Words, especially those of a
constitution, are not to be read with such stultifying narrowness. The words of §§ 2 and 4 of Article I, read in
the sense which is plainly permissible and in the light of
the constitutional purpose, require us to hold that a primary election which involves a necessary step in the choice
of candidates for election as representatives in Congress,
and which in the circumstances of this case controls that
choice, is an election within the meaning of the constitutional provision and is subject to congressional regulation
as to the manner of holding it.
Not only does § 4 of Article I authorize Congress to
regulate the manner of holding elections, but by Article I,
§ 8, Clause 18, Congress is given authority "to make all
laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into
execution the foregoing powers and all other powers vested
by this Constitution in the Government of the United
States or in any department or officer thereof." This provision leaves to the Congress the choice of means by which
its constitutional powers are to be carried into execution.
"Let the end be legitimate; let it be within the scope of
the Constitution, and all means which are appropriate,
which are plainly adapted to that end, which are not prohibited, but consist with the letter and spirit of the Constitution, are constitutional." McCulloch v. Maryland,
4 Wheat. 316, 421. That principle has been consistently
adhered to and liberally applied, and extends to the congressional power by appropriate legislation to safeguard
the right of choice by the people of representatives in
Congress, secured by § 2 of Article I. Ex parte Yarbrough,
supra,657, 658; cf. Second Employers Liability Cases, 223
U. S. 1, 49; Houston & Texas Ry. Co. v. United States, 234
U. S. 342, 350, 355; Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332, 346,
347; First National Bank v. Union Trust Co., 244 U. S.
416, 419; Selective Draft Law Cases, 245 U. S. 366, 381;
United States v. Ferger, 250 U. S. 199, 205; Hamilton v.

UNITED STATES v. CLASSIC.
299

Opinion of the Court.

Kentucky DistilleriesCo., 251 U. S.146, 155, 163; Jacob
Ruppert v. Caffey, 251 U. S. 264; Smith v. Kansas City
Title & Trust Co., 255 U. S.180; United States v. Darby,
312 U. S.100, and cases cited.
There remains the question whether §§ 19 and 20 are
an exercise of the congressional authority applicable to
the acts with which appellees are charged in the indictment. Section 19 makes it a crime to conspire to "injure"
or "oppress" any citizen "in the free exercise or enjoyment
of any right or privilege secured to him by the Constitution."
In Ex parte Yarbrough, supra, and in United
States v. Mosley, supra, as we have seen, it was held that
the right to vote in a congressional election is a right
secured by the Constitution, and that a conspiracy to
prevent the citizen from voting, or to prevent the official
count of his ballot when cast, is a conspiracy to injure
and oppress the citizen in the free exercise of a right
secured by the Constitution within the meaning of § 19.
In reaching this conclusion the Court found no uncertainty or ambiguity in the statutory language, obviously
devised to protect the citizen "in the free exercise or enjoyment of any right or privilege secured to him by the
Constitution," and concerned itself with the question
whether the right to participate in choosing a representa'Section 19 of the Criminal Code (U. S. C., Title 18, § 51):
"If two or more persons conspire to injure, oppress, threaten, or
intimidate any citizen in the free exercise or enjoyment of any right
or privilege secured to him by the Constitution or laws of the United
States, or because of his having so exercised the same, or if two or more
persons go in disguise on the highway, or on the premises of another,
with intent to prevent or hinder his free exercise or enjoyment of any
right or privilege so secured, they shall be fined not more than $5,000
and imprisoned not more than ten years, and shall, moreover, be thereafter ineligible to any office, or place of honor, profit, or trust created
by the Constitution or laws of the United States." (R. S. § 5508;
Mar. 4, 1909, c. 321, § 19, 35 Stat. 1092.)
326252°--41-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

tive is so secured.' Such is our function here. Conspiracy to prevent the official count of a citizen's ballot,
held in United States v. Mosley, supra, to be a violation
of § 19 in the case of a congressional election, is equally
a conspiracy to injure and oppress the citizen when the
ballots are cast in a primary election prerequisite to the
choice of party candidates for a congressional election. In
both cases the right infringed is one secured by the Constitution. The injury suffered by the citizen in the exercise of the right is an injury which the statute describes and
to which it applies in the one case as in the other.
The suggestion that § 19, concededly applicable to
conspiracies to deprive electors of their votes at congressional elections, is not sufficiently specific to be deemed
applicable to primary elections, will hardly bear examination. Section 19 speaks neither of elections nor of primaries. In unambiguous language it protects "any
right or privilege secured by the Constitution," a phrase
which, as we have seen, extends to the right of the voter
to have his vote counted in both the general election and
in the primary election, where the latter is a part of the
election machinery, as well as to numerous other constitutional rights which are wholly unrelated to the
choice of a representative in Congress. United States v.
Waddell, 112 U. S. 76; Logan v. United States, 144 U. S.
263; In re Quarles, 158 U. S. 532; Motes v. United States,
178 U. S. 458; Guinn v. United States, 238 U. S. 347.
In the face of the broad language of the statute, we
are pointed to no principle of statutory construction
'In United States v. Mosley, 238 U. S. 383, 386, the Court thought
that "Manifestly the words are broad enough to cover the case," it
canvassed at length the objections that § 19 was never intended to
apply to crimes against the franchise, and the other contention, which
it also rejected, that § 19 had been repealed or so restricted as not to
apply to offenses of that class. It is unnecessary to repeat that
discussion here.

UNITED STATES v. CLASSIC.
299

323

Opinion of the Court.

and to no significant legislative history which could be
thought to sanction our saying that the statute applies
any the less to primaries than to elections, where in one
as in the other it is the same constitutional right which
is infringed. It does not avail to attempt to distinguish
the protection afforded by § 1 of the Civil Rights Act of
1871,6 to the right to participate in primary as well as
general elections secured to all citizens by the Constitution, see Guinn v. United States, 238 U. S. 347; Nixon
v. Herndon, 273 U. S. 536; Nixon v. Condon, 286 U. S.
73; Lane v. Wilson, 307 U. S. 268, on the ground that in
those cases the injured citizens were Negroes whose
rights were clearly protected by the Fourteenth Amendment. At least since Ex parte Yarbrough, supra, and
no member of the Court seems ever to have questioned
it, the right to participate in the choice of representatives in Congress has been recognized as a right protected by Art. I, §§ 2 and 4 of the Constitution.! Differences of opinion have arisen as to the effect of the
primary in particular cases on the choice of representatives. But we are troubled by no such doubt here.
Hence, the right to participate through the primary in
the choice of representatives in Congress--a right clearly
secured by the Constitution-is within the words and
Section 1 now reads, 8 U. S. C. § 43: "Every person who, under
color of any statute, ordinance, regulation, custom or usage, of any
State or Territory, subjects or causes to be subjected, any citizen of
the United States or other person within the jurisdiction thereof to
the deprivation of any rights, privileges, or immunities secured by
the Constitution and laws, shall be liable to the party injured in
an action at law, suit in equity, or other proper proceeding for
redress."
'See e. g. Guinn v. United States, 238 U. S. 347; United States
v. O'Toole, 236 F. 993, aff'd United States v. Gradwell, 243 U. S.
476; Aczel v. United States, 232 F. 652; Felix v. United States, 186
F. 685; Karem v. United States, 121 F. 250; Walker v. United
States, 93 F. 2d 383; Luteran v. United States, 93 F. 2d 395.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

purpose of § 19 in the same manner and to the same
extent as the right to vote at the general election.
United States v. Mosley, supra. It is no extension of
the criminal statute, as it was not of the civil statute
in Nixon v. Herndon, supra, to find a violation of it in
a new method of interference with the right which its
words protect. For it is the constitutional right, regardless of the method of interference, which is the subject of the statte and which in precise terms it protects
from injury and oppression.
It is hardly the performance of the judicial function to
construe a statute, which in terms protects a right secured by the Constitution, here the right to choose a
representative in Congress, as applying to an election
whose only function is to ratify a choice already made
at the primary, but as having no application to the primary which is the only effective means of choice. To
withdraw from the scope of the statute an effective interference with the constitutional right of choice, because
other wholly different situations not now before us may
not be found to involve such an interference, cf. United
States v. Bathgate, 246 U. S. 220; United States v. Gradwell, 243 U. S. 476, is to say that acts plainly within the
statute should be deemed to be without it because other
hypothetical cases may later be found not to infringe
the constitutional right with which alone the statute is
concerned.
If a right secured by the Constitution may be infringed
by the corrupt failure to include the vote at a primary
in the official count, it is not significant that the primary,
like the voting machine, was unknown when § 19 was
adopted.8 Abuse of either may infringe the right and
S

No conclusion is to be drawn from the failure of the Hatch Act,

53 Stat. 1147, 18 U. S. C. § 61, to enlarge § 19 by provisions specifically applicable to primaries. Its failure to deal with the sub-

ject seems to be attributable to constitutional doubts, stimulated by

UNITED STATES v. CLASSIC.
299

Opinion of the Court.

therefore violate § 19. See United States v. Pleva, 66
F. 2d 529, 530; cf. Browder v. United States, 312 U. S.
335. Nor does the fact that in circumstances not here
present there may be difficulty, in determining whether
the primary so affects the right of the choice as to bring
it within the constitutional protection, afford any ground
for doubting the construction and application of the statute once the constitutional question is resolved. That
difficulty is inherent in the judicial administration of
every federal criminal statute, for none, whatever its
terms, can be applied beyond the reach of the congressional power which the Constitution confers. Standard
Sanitary Mfg. Co. v. United States, 226 U. S. 20; Hoke
v. United States, 227 U.oS. 308; Nash v. United States,
229 U. S. 373; United States v. Freeman, 239 U. S. 117;
United States v. Darby, 312 U. S. 100.
The right of the voters at the primary to have their
votes counted is, as we have stated, a right or privilege
secured by the Constitution, and to this § 20 also gives
protection.' The alleged acts of appellees were committed in the course of their performance of duties under the Louisiana statute requiring them to count the
Newberry v. United States, 256 U. S. 232, which are here resolved.
See 84 Cong. Rec., 76th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 4191; cf. Investigation
of Campaign Expenditures in the 1940 Campaign, S. Rept. No. 47,
77th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 48.
'Section 20 of the Criminal Code (U. S. C., Title 18 § 52):
"Whoever, under color of any law, statute, ordinance, regulation,
or custom, willfully subjects, or causes to be subjected, any inhabitant
of any State, Territory, or District to the deprivation of any rights,
privileges, or immunities secured or protected by the Constitution and
laws of the United States, or to different punishments, pains, or
penalties, on account of such inhabitant being an alien, or by reason
of his color, or race, than are prescribed for the punishment of citizens, shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned not more
than one year, or both." (R. S. § 5510; Mar. 4, 1909, c. 321, § 20,
35 Stat. 1092.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

ballots, to record the result of the count, and to certify
the result of the election. Misuse of power, possessed by
virtue of state law and made possible only because the
wrongdoer is clothed with the authority of state law, is
action taken "under color of" state law. Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339, 346; Home Telephone & Telegraph
Co. v. Los Angeles, 227 U. S. 278, 287, et seq.; Hague v.
C. I. 0., 307 U. S. 496, 507, 519; cf. 101 F. 2d 774, 790.
Here the acts of appellees infringed the constitutional
right and deprived the voters of the benefit of it within
the meaning of § 20, unless by its terms its application
is restricted to deprivations "on account of such inhabitant being an alien or by reason of his color, or race."
The last clause of § 20 protects inhabitants of a state
from being subjected to different punishments, pains or
penalties, by reason of alienage, color or race, than are
prescribed for the punishment of citizens. That the
qualification with respect to alienage, color and race, refers only to differences in punishment and not to deprivations of any rights or privileges secured by the Constitution, is evidenced by the structure of the section and
the necessities of the practical application of its provisions. The qualificatiGn as to alienage, color and race,
is a parenthetical phrase in the clause penalizing different punishments "than are prescribed for citizens," and
in the common use of language could refer only to the

subject-matter of the clause and not to that of the
earlier one relating to the deprivation of rights to which
it makes no reference in terms.
Moreover, the prohibited differences of punishment on
account of alienage, color or race, are those referable to
prescribed punishments which are to be compared with
those prescribed for citizens. A standard is thus set up
applicable to differences in prescribed punishments on
account of alienage, color or race, which it would be diffi-

UNITED STATES v. CLASSIC.
299

327

Opinion of the Court

cult, if not impossible, to apply to the willful deprivations of constitutional rights or privileges, in order to determine whether they are on account of alienage, color
or race. We think that § 20 authorizes the punishment
of two different offenses. The one is willfully subjecting
any inhabitant to the deprivation of rights secured by
the Constitution; the other is willfully subjecting any
inhabitant to different punishments on account of his
alienage, color or race, than are prescribed for the punishment of citizens. The meager legislative history of
the section supports this conclusion. °
°The precursor of § 20 was § 2 of the Civil Rights Act of April
9, 1866, 14 Stat. 27, which reads:
"That any person who, under color of any law, statute, ordinance,
regulation, or custom, shall subject, or cause to be subjected, any inhabitant of any State or Territory to the deprivation of any right
secured or protected by this act, or to different punishment, pains,
or penalties on account of such person having at any time been held
in a condition of slavery or involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime whereof the party shall have been duly convicted,
or by reason of his color or race, than is prescribed for the punishment of white persons, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and,
on conviction shall be punished by fine ...
"
This section, so far as now material, was in substance the same as
§ 20 except that the qualifying reference to differences in punishment made no mention of alienage, the reference being to "different
punishment . . . on account of such person having at any time been
held in a condition of slavery or involuntary servitude."
Senator Trumbull, the putative author of S. 61, 39th Cong., 1st
Sess., the Civil Rights Bill of 1866, and Chairman of the Senate
Judiciary Committee which reported the bill, in explaining it stated
that the bill was "to protect all persons in the United States in their
civil rights, and furnish the means of their vindication... .' Cong.
Globe, 39th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 211. He also declared, "The bill applies to white men as well as black men." Cong. Globe, 39th Cong.,
1st Sess., p. 599. Opponents of the bill agreed with this construction of the first clause of the section, declaring that it referred to
the deprivation of constitutional rights of all inhabitants of the
states of every race and color. Pp. 598, 601.

328

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

So interpreted, § 20 applies to deprivation of the constitutional rights of qualified voters to choose representatives in Congress. The generality of the section, made applicable as it is to deprivations of any constitutional right,
does not obscure its meaning or impair its force within
On February 24, 1870, Senator Stewart of Nevada, introduced S.
365, 41st Cong., 2d Sess., § 2 of which read:
"That any person who, under color of any law, statute, ordinance,
regulation, or custom shall subject, or cause to be subjected, any inhabitant of any State or Territory to the deprivation of any right
secured or protected by this act, or to different punishment, pains,
or penalties on account of such person being an alien, or by reason
of his color or race, than is prescribed for the punishment of white
persons, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. .. "
In explaining the bill he declared, Cong. Globe, 41st Cong., 2d Sess.,
p. 1536, that the purpose of the bill was to extend its benefits to
aliens, saying, "It extends the operation of the Civil Rights Bill, which
is well known in the Senate and to the country, to all persons
within the jurisdiction of the United States." The Committee reported out a substitute bill to H. R. 1293, to which S. 365 was added
as an amendment. As so amended the bill when adopted became
the present § 20 of the Criminal Code which read exactly as did § 2
of the Civil Rights Act, except that the word "aliens" was added
and the word "citizens" was substituted for the phrase "white
persons."
While the legislative history indicates that the immediate occasion
for the adoption of § 20, like the Fourteenth Amendment itself, was the
more adequate protection of the colored race and their civil rights, it
shows that neither was restricted to the purpose and that the first
clause of § 20 was intended to protect the constitutional rights of all
inhabitants of the states. H. R. 1293, 41st Cong., 2d Sess., which
was later amended in the Senate to include § 2 of S. 365 as § 17 of
the bill as it passed, now § 20 of the Criminal Code, was originally
entitled "A bill to enforce the right of citizens of the United States
to vote in the several States of this Union, who have hitherto been
denied that right on account of race, color, or previous condition of
servitude." When the bill came to the Senate its title was amended
and adopted to read, "A bill to enforce the right of citizens of the
United States to vote in the several States of this Union and for
other purposes."

UNITED STATES v. CLASSIC.
299

DoUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

the scope of its application, which is restricted by its
terms to deprivations which are willfully inflicted by
those acting under color of any law, statute and the like.
We do not discuss the application of § 20 to deprivations of the right to equal protection of the laws guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment, a point apparently
raised and discussed for the first time in the Government's
brief in this Court. The point was not specially considered or decided by the court below, and has not been
assigned as error by the Government. Since the indictment on its face does not purport to charge a deprivation
of equal protection to voters or candidates, we are not
called upon to construe the indictment in order to raise
a question of statutory validity or construction which we
are alone authorized to review upon this appeal.
Reversed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JusTIcE DOUGLAs,

dissenting.

Free and honest elections are the very foundation of
our republican form of government. Hence any attempt
to defile the sanctity of the ballot cannot be viewed with
equanimity. As stated by Mr. Justice Miller in Ex parte
Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651, 666, "the temptations to control
these elections by violence and corruption" have been a
constant source of danger in the history of all republics.
The acts here charged, if proven, are of a kind which carries that threat and are highly offensive. Since they corrupt the process of Congressional elections, they transcend
mere local concern and extend a contaminating influence
into the national domain.
I think Congress has ample power to deal with them.
That is to say, I disagree with Newberry v. United States,
256 U. S. 232, to the extent that it holds that Congress

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

313 U. S.

has no power to control primary elections. Art. I, § 2
of the Constitution provides that "The House of Representatives shall be composed of Members chosen every
second Year by the People of the several States." Art. I,
§ 4 provides that "The Times, Places and Manner of holding Elections for Senators and Representatives, shall be
prescribed in each State by the Legislature thereof; but
the Congress may at any time by Law make or alter such
Regulations, except as to the Places of chusing Senators."
And Art. I, § 8, clause 18 gives Congress the power "To
make all Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Powers, and all
other Powers vested by this Constitution in the Government of the United States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof." Those sections are an arsenal of power ample
to protect Congressional elections from any and all forms
of pollution. The fact that a particular form of pollution
has only an indirect effect on the final election is immaterial. The fact that it occurs in a primary election or
nominating convention is likewise irrelevant. The important consideration is that the Constitution should be
interpreted broadly so as to give to the representatives
of a free people abundant power to deal with all the exigencies of the electoral process. It means that the Constitution should be read so as to give Congress an expansive implied power to place beyond the pale acts which,
in their direct or indirect effect, impair the integrity of
Congressional elections. For when corruption enters; the
election is no longer free, the choice of the people is affected. To hold that Congress is powerless to control
these primaries would indeed be a narrow construction of
the Constitution, inconsistent with the view that that
instrument of government was designed not only for contemporary needs but for the vicissitudes of time.
So I agree with most of the views expressed in the
opinion of the Court. And it is with diffidence that I
dissent from the result there reached.

UNITED STATES v. CLASSIC.
299

DouGLAs, J., dissenting.

The disagreement centers on the meaning of § 19 of
the Criminal Code, which protects every right secured by
the Constitution. The right to vote at a final Congressional election and the right to have one's vote counted
in such an election have been held to be protected by § 19.
Ex parte Yarbrough, supra; United States v. Mosley, 238
U. S. 383. Yet I do not think that the principles of those
cases should be, or properly can be, extended to primary
elections. To sustain this indictment we must so extend
them. But when we do, we enter perilous territory.
We enter perilous territory because, as stated in United
States v. Gradwell,243 U. S. 476, 485, there is no common
law offense against the United States; "the legislative
authority of the Union must make an act a crime, affix
a punishment to it, and declare the Court that shall have
jurisdiction of the offence." United States v. Hudson,
7 Cranch 32, 34. If a person is to be convicted of a crime,
the offense must be clearly and plainly embraced within
the statute. As stated by Chief Justice Marshall in United
States v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 76, 105, "probability is not
a guide which a court, in construing a penal statute, can
safely take." It is one thing to allow wide and generous
scope to the express and implied powers of Congress; it
is distinctly another to read into the vague and general
language of an act of Congress specifications of crimes.
We should ever be.mindful that "before a man can be punished, his case must be plainly and unmistakably within
the statute." United States v. Lacher, 134 U. S. 624, 628.
That admonition is re~mphasized here by the fact that
§ 19 imposes not only a fine of $5,000 and ten years in
prison, but also makes him who is convicted "ineligible
to any office, or place of honor, profit, or trust created by
the Constitution or laws of the United States." It is not
enough for us to find in the vague penumbra of a statute
sorie offense about which Congress could have legislated,
and then to particularize it as a crime because it is highly

332

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
DoucLAS, J., dissenting.

313 U. S.

offensive. Cf. James v. Bowman, 190 U. S. 127. Civil
liberties are too dear to permit conviction for crimes which
are only implied and which can be spelled out only by
adding inference to inference.
Sec. 19 does not purport to be an exercise by Congress
of its power to regulate primaries. It merely penalizes
conspiracies "to injure, oppress, threaten, or intimidate
any citizen in the free exercise or enjoyment of any right
or privilege secured to him by the Constitution or laws
of the United States." Thus, it does no more than refer
us to the Constitution' for the purpose of determining
whether or not the right to vote in a primary is there secured. Hence we must do more than find in the Constitution the power of Congress to afford that protection.
We must find that protection on the face of the Constitution itself. That is to say, we must in view of the wording
of § 19 read the relevant provisions of the Constitution
for the purposes of this case through the window of a
criminal statute.
There can be put to one side cases where state election
officials deprive negro citizens of their right to vote at a
general election (Guinn v. United States, 238 U. S. 347),
or at a primary. Nixon v. Herndon, 273 U. S. 536; Nixon
v. Condon, 286 U. S. 73. Discrimination on the basis of
race or color is plainly outlawed by the Fourteenth Amendment. Since the constitutional mandate is plain, there
is no reason why § 19 or § 20 should not be applicable.
But the situation here is quite different. When we turn
to the constitutional provisions relevant to this case we
find no such unambiguous mandate.
Art. I, § 4 specifies the machinery whereby the times,
places and manner of holding elections shall be established
and controlled. Art. I, § 2 provides that representatives
shall be "chosen" by the people. But for purposes of the
1 While

§ 19 also refers to "laws of the United States," § 19 and

§ 20 are the only statutes directly in point.

UNITED STATES v. CLASSIC.
299

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

criminal law as contfasted to the interpretation of the
Constitution as the source of the implied power of Congress, I do not think that those provisions in absence of
specific legislation by Congress protect the primary election or the nominating convention. While they protect
the right to vote, and the right to have one's vote counted,
at the final election, as held in the Yarbrough and Mosley
cases, they certainly do not per se extend to all acts which
in their indirect or incidental effect restrain, restrict, or
interfere with that choice. Bribery of voters at a general
election certainly is an interference with that freedom of
choice. It is a corruptive influence which for its impact
on the election process is as intimate and direct as the
acts charged in this indictment. And Congress has ample
power to deal with it. But this Court in United States v.
Bathgate, 246 U. S. 220, by a unanimous vote, held that
conspiracies to bribe voters at a general election were not
covered by § 19. While the conclusion in that case may
be reconciled with the results in the Yarbroughand Mosley
cases on the ground that the right to vote at a general
election is personal while the bribery of voters only indirectly affects that personal right, that distinction is not
of aid here. For the failure to count votes cast at a primary has by the same token only an indirect effect on the
voting at the general election. In terms of causal effect,
tampering with the primary vote may be as important
on the outcome of the general election as bribery of voters
at the general election itself. Certainly from the viewpoint of the individual voter there is as much a dilution
of his vote in the one case as in the other. So, in light
of the Mosley and Bathgate cases, the test under § 19 is
not whether the acts in question constitute an interference
with the effective choice of the voters. It is whether the
voters are deprived of their votes in the general election.
Such a test comports with the standards for construction
of a criminal law, since it restricts § 19 to protection of

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

313 U. S.

the rights plainly and directly guaranteed by the Constitution. Any other test entails an inquiry into the indirect or incidental effect on the general election of the acts
done. But in view of the generality of the words employed, such a test would be incompatible with the criteria
appropriate for a criminal case.
The Mosley case, in my view, went to the verge when
it held that § 19 and the relevant constitutional provisions made it a crime to fail to count votes cast at a
general election. That Congress intended § 19 to have
that effect was none too clear. The dissenting opinion
of Mr. Justice Lamar in that case points out that § 19
was originally part of the Enforcement Act of May 31,
1870, c. 114, § 6, 16 Stat. 140. Under another section of
that act (§ 4), which was repealed by the Act of February 8, 1894 (28 Stat. 36), the crime charged in the
Mosley case would have been punishable by a fine of not
less than $500 and imprisonment for 12 months.' Under
§ 19 it carried, as it still does, a penalty of $5000 and ten
years in prison. The Committee Report (H. Rep. No.
18, 53d Cong., 1st Sess.), which recommended the repeal
of other sections, clearly indicated an intent to remove
the hand of the Federal Government from such elections
and to restore their conduct and policing to the states.
'See. 5506, Rev. Stat.: "Every person who, by any unlawful means,
hinders, delays, prevents, or obstructs, or combines and confederates
with others to hinder, delay, prevent, or obstruct, any citizen from
doing any act required to be done to qualify him to vote, or from
voting at any election .

.

. shall be fined not less than five hundred

dollars, or be imprisoned not less than one month nor more than one
year, or be punished by both such fine and imprisonment." See.
5511 provided: "If, at any election for Representative or Delegate in
Congress, any person . . . knewingly receives the vote of any person

not entitled to vote, or refuses to receive the vote of any person
entitled to vote .

.

. he shall be punished by a fine of not more than

five hundred dollars, or by imprisonment not more than three years,
or by both

. .

UNITED STATES v. CLASSIC.
299

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

As the Report stated (p. 7): "Let every trace of the reconstruction measures be wiped from the statute books;
let the States of this great Union understand that the
elections are in their own hands, and if there be fraud,
coercion, or force used they will be the first to feel it.
Responding to a universal sentiment throughout the
country for greater purity in elections many of our States
have enacted laws to protect the voter and to purify the
ballot. These, under the guidance of State officers, have
worked efficiently, satisfactorily, and beneficently; and
if these Federal statutes are repealed that sentiment will
receive an impetus which, if the cause still exists, will
carry such enactments in every State in the Union."
In view of this broad, comprehensive program of repeal,
it is not easy to conclude that the general language of
§ 19, which was not repealed, not only continued in effect
much which had been repealed but also upped the penalties for certain offenses which had been explicitly covered by one of the repealed sections. Mr. Justice
Holmes, writing for the majority in the Mosley case,
found in the legislatiye and historical setting of § 19 and
in its revised form a Congressional interpretation which,
if § 19 were taken at its face value, was thought to afford
voters in final Congressional elections general protection.
And that view is a tenable one, since § 19 originally was
part of an Act regulating general elections, and since the
acts charged had a direct rather than an indirect effect
on the right to vote at a general election.
But as stated by a unanimous court in United States
v. Gradwell, supra, p. 486, the Mosley case "falls far
short" of making § 19 "applicable to the conduct of a
state nominating primary." Indeed, Mr. Justice
Holmes, the author of the Mosley opinion, joined with
Mr. Justice McReynolds in the Newberry case in his
view that Congress had no authority under Art. I, § 4
of the Constitution to legislate on primaries. When § 19

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

313 U. S.

was part of the Act of May 31, 1870, it certainly would

never have been contended that it embraced primaries,
for they were hardly known at that time.3 It is true
that "even a criminal statute embraces everything which
subsequently falls within its scope." Browder v. United
States, 312 U. S. 335, 340. Yet the attempt to bring
under § 19 offenses "committed in the conduct of primary elections or nominating caucuses or conventions"
was rejected in the Gradwell case, where this Court said
that in absence of legislation by Congress on the subject
of primaries it is not for the courts "to attempt to supply
it by stretching old statutes to new uses, to which they
are not adapted and for which they were not intended.
. I.. the section of the Criminal Code relied upon, originally enacted for the protection of the civil rights of the
then lately enfranchised negro, cannot be extended so
as to make it an agency for enforcing a state primary
law." 243 U. S. pp. 488-489. The fact that primaries
were hardly known when § 19 was enacted, the fact that
it was part of a legislative program governing general
elections, not primary elections, the fact that it has been
in nowise implemented by legislation directed at primaries, give credence to the unanimous view in the
Gradwell case that § 19 has not by the mere passage of
time taken on a new and broadened meaning. At least
it seems plain that the difficulties of applying the historical reason adduced by Mr. Justice Holmes in the Mosley
case to bring general elections within § 19 are so great in
case of primaries that we have left the safety zone of interpretation of criminal statutes when we sustain this
indictment. It is one thing to say, as in the Mosley case,
that Congress was legislating as respects general elections
when it passed § 19. That was the fact. It is quite
'Merriam & Overacker, Primary Elections (1928) chs. I-III, V;
Sait, American Parties & Elections (1927) ch. X; Brooks, Political
Parties & Electoral Problems (1933) ch. X.

UNITED STATES v. CLASSIC.
299

DouGLAs, J., dissenting.

another thing to say that Congress by leaving § 19 unmolested for some seventy years has legislated unwittingly on primaries. Sec. 19 was never part of an act
of Congress directed towards primaries. That was not
its original frame of reference. Therefore, unlike the
Mosley case, it cannot be said here that § 19 still covers
primaries because it was once an integral part of primary
legislation.
Furthermore, the fact that Congress has legislated only
sparingly and at infrequent intervals even on the subject
of general elections (United States v. Gradwell, supra)
should make us hesitate to conclude that by mere inaction
Congress has taken the greater step, entered the field of
primaries, and gone further than any announced legislative
program has indicated. The acts here charged constitute
crimes under the Louisiana statute. La. Act No. 46, Reg.
Sess. 1940, § 89. In absence of specific Congressional action we should assume that Congress has left the control
of primaries and nominating conventions to the statesan assumption plainly in line with the Committee Report,
quoted above, recommending the repeal of portions of the
Enforcement Act of May 31, 1870 so as to place the details
of elections in state hands. There is no ground for inference in subsequent legislative history that Congress has
departed from that policy by superimposing its own primary penal law on the primary penal laws of the states.
Rather, Congress has been fairly consistent in recognizing
state autonomy in the field of elections. To be sure, it
has occasionally legislated on primaries.' But even when
dealing specifically with the nominating process, it has
never made acts of the kind here in question a crime. In
this connection it should be noted that the bill which
became the Hatch Act (53 Stat. 1147; 18 U. S. C. § 61)
'Act of June 25, 1910, c. 392, 36 Stat. 822, as amended by the Act
of August 19, 1911, c. 33, 37 Stat. 25; Act of October 16, 1918, c. 187,
40 Stat. 1013.
326252°-41-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
DouGLAs, J., dissenting.

313 U. S.

contained a section which made it unlawful "for any person to intimidate, threaten, or coerce, or to attempt to
intimidate, threaten, or coerce, any other person for the
purpose of interfering with the right of such other person to
vote or to vote as he may choose, or of causing such other
person to vote for, or not to vote for, any candidate for
the nomination of any party as its candidate" for various
federal offices, including representatives, "at any primary
or nominating convention held solely or in part" for that
purpose. This was stricken in the Senate. 84 Cong. Rec.,
pt. 4, 76th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 4191. That section would
have extended the same protection to the primary and
nominating convention as § 1 of the Hatch Act" extends
to the general election. The Senate, however, refused
to do so. Yet this Court now holds that § 19 has protected the primary vote all along and that it covers conspiracies to do the precise thing on which Congress refused
to legislate in 1939. The hesitation on the part of Congress through the years to enter the primary field, its refusal to do so 6 in 1939, and the restricted scope of such
primary laws as it has passed, should be ample evidence
"That it shall be unlawful for any person to intimidate, threaten,
or coerce, or to attempt to intimidate, threaten, or coerce, any other
person for the purpose of interfering with the right of such other person
to vote or to vote as he may choose, or of causing such other person

to vote for, or not to vote for, any candidate for the office of President,
Vice President, Presidential elector, Member of the Senate, or Member
of the House of Representatives at any election held solely or in part
for the purpose of selecting a President, a Vice President, a Presidential
elector, or any Member of the Senate or any. Member of the House of

Representatives, Delegates or Commissioners from the Territories and
insular possessions."
'See. 2 of the Hatch Act, however, does make unlawful certain acts
of administrative employees even in connection with the nominations
for certain federal offices. And see 54 Stat. 767, No. 753, ch. 640, 76th
Cong., 3d Sess. As to the power of Congress ever employees or officers
of the government, see United States v. Wurzbach, 280 U. S. 396.

UNITED STATES v. CLASSIC.
299

DouGLAs, J., dissenting.

that this Court is legislating when it takes the initiative
in extending § 19 to primaries.
We should adhere to the strict construction given to § 19
by a unanimous court in United States v. Bathgate, 246
U. S. 220, 226, where it was said: "Section 19, Criminal
Code, of course, now has the same meaning as when first
enacted . . . and considering the policy of Congress not
to. interfere with elections within a State except by clear
and specific provisions, together with the rule respecting
construction of criminal statutes, we cannot think it was
intended to apply to conspiracies to bribe voters." That
leads to the conclusion that § 19 and the -elevant constitutional provisions should be read so as to exclude all
acts which do not have the direct effect of depriving voters
of their right to vote at general elections. That view has
received tacit recognition by Congress. For the history
of legislation governing Federal elections shows that the
occasional Acts of Congress 7 on the subject have been
primarily directed towards supplying detailed regulations
designed to protect the individual's constitutional right
to vote against pollution and corruption. Those laws, the
latest of which is § 1 of the Hatch Act, are ample recognition by Congress itself that specific legislation is necessary
in order to protect the electoral process against the wide
variety of acts which in their indirect or incidental effect
interfere with the voter's freedom of choice and corrupt
the electoral process. They are evidence that detailed
regulations are essential in order to reach acts which do
not directly interfere with the voting privilege. They
are inconsistent with the notions in the opinion of the
'See for example, Act of May 31, 1870, 16 Stat. 140; Act of July 14,
1870, 16 Stat. 254, 255-256; Act of Feb. 28, 1871, 16 Stat. 433; Act of
June 25, 1910, 36 Stat. 822; Act of August 19, 1911, 37 Stat. 25; Act
of August 23, 1912, 37 Stat. 360; Act of October 16, 1918, 40 Stat.

1013; Federal Corrupt Practices Act, 1925, 43 Stat. 1070; Hatch Act,
August 2, 1939, 53 Stat. 1147.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

313 U. S.

Court that the Constitution, unaided by definite supplementary legislation, protects the methods by which party
candidates are nominated.
That § 19 lacks the requisite specificity necessary for
inclusion of acts which interfere with the nomination of
party candidates is re~mphasized by the test here employed. The opinion of the Court stresses, as does the
indictment, that the winner of the Democratic primary
in Louisiana invariably carries the general election. It
is also emphasized that a candidate defeated in the Louisiana primaries cannot be a candidate at the general election. Hence, it is argued that interference with the right
to vote in such a primary is "as a matter of law and in
fact an interference with the effective choice of the voters
at the only stage of the election procedure when their
choice is of significance," and that the "primary in Louisiana is an integral part of the procedure for the popular
choice" of representatives. By that means, the Gradwell
case is apparently distinguished. But I do not think it
is a valid distinction for the purposes of this case.
One of the indictments in the Gradwell case charged
that the defendants conspired to procure one thousand
unqualified persons to vote in a West Virginia primary
for the nomination of a United States Senator. This
Court, by a unanimous vote, affirmed the judgment which
sustained a demurrer to that indictment. The Court specifically reserved the question as to whether a "primary
should be treated as an election within the meaning of
the Constitution." But it went on to say that, even
assuming it were, certain "strikingly unusual features" of
the particular primary precluded such a holding in that
case. It noted that candidates of certain parties were
excluded from the primary, and that even candidates who
were defeated at the primary could on certain conditions
be nominated for the general election. It therefore concluded that whatever power Congress might have to control such primaries, it had not done so by § 19.

UNITED STATES v. CLASSIC.
299

DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

If the Gradwell case is to survive, as I think it should,
we have therefore this rather curious situation. Primaries
in states where the winner invariably carries the general
election are protected by § 19 and the Constitution, even
though such primaries are not by law an integral part of
the election process. Primaries in states where the successful candidate never wins, seldom wins, or may not
win in the general election are not so protected, unless
perchance state law makes such primaries an integral part
of the election process. Congress, having a broad control
over primaries, might conceivably draw such distinctions
in a penal code. But for us to draw them under § 19 is
quite another matter. For we must go outside the statute,

examine local law and local customs, and then, on the basis
of the legal or practical importance of a particular primary,
interpret the vague language of § 19 in the light of the
significance of the acts done. The result is to make refined
and nice distinctions which Congress certainly has not
made, to create unevenness in the application of § 19
among the various states, and to make the existence of a
crime depend, not on the plain meaning of words employed interpreted in light of the legislative history of
the statute, but on the result of research into local law
or local practices. Unless Congress has explicitly made
a crime dependent on such facts, we should not undertake
to do so. Such procedure does not comport with the strict
standards essential for the interpretation of a criminal law.
The necessity of resorting to such a circuitous route is
sufficient evidence to me that we are performing a legislative function in finding here a definition of a crime which
will sustain this indictment. A crime, no matter how
offensive, should not be spelled out from such vague
inferences.
MR. JUSTICE BLAcK and MR. JUSTICE MURPHY join in

this dissent.

