OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

313 U.S.

PITTSBURGH PLATE GLASS CO. v. NATIONAL
LABOR RELATIONS BOARD.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 521.

Argued March 7, 10, 1941.-Decided April 28, 1941.

1. A ruling of the National Labor Relations Board determining an
appropriate unit for collective bargaining is not directly reviewable
but is subject to challenge when a complaint of unfair practices is
based upon it. P. 154.
2. An order of the National Labor Relations Board requiring an employer to cease and desist from recognizing or dealing with a union
as a labor organization, entered on stipulation of the employer,
without hearing, in a proceeding charging violations of §§ 8 (1) and
(2) of the National Labor Relations Act to which the union was
not a party, is binding upon the employer but leaves the union's
private rights untouched. P. 155..
3. In proceedings before the Board under § 9 (b) of the Act to determine the appropriate bargaining unit or units for the employees
in a plurality of plants operated by the same employer and
manufacturing similar products, the desire of the employees
at one of the plants to be represented by their own union rather
than by a single organization representing the employees in all the
plants, is a fact to be weighed, together with the similarity of
working duties and conditions, the character of the various plants,
and the anticipated effectiveness of the unit to be chosen in maintaining industrial peace through collective bargaining. P. 156.
4. The availability of a workers' organization for purposes of representation at a particular plant is not in itself decisive against joining the employees in that plant with those of other plants of the
same employer as an appropriate bargaining unit. P. 156.
5. In determining whether the employees of a plant having its separate union should be included with those in other plants operated
by the same employer, as an appropriate bargaining unit, the fact
of employer-domination in that plant is to be considered; but it
*Together with No. 523, Crystal City Glass Workers' Union v.
National Labor Relations Board, also on writ of certiorari, 311 U. S.
642, to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.

PITTSBURGH GLASS CO. v. BOARD.
146

Syllabus.

pertains rather to the subsequent certification of bargaining representative. P. 156.
6. In proceedings under § 9 (b) of the National Labor Relations Act
in which all the employees in a plurality of separate plants were
found to constitute an appropriate bargaining unit and a single
labor federation was certified as their bargaining representative, the
Board had received the petition of a union including a large majority of the workers at one of the plants showing their desire to
be classed as a separate unit with separate representation. In a
subsequent proceeding under §§ 8 (1) and (5), charging the employer with unfair labor practice in refusing to bargain with the
federation so certified, further evidence of this desire of the workers
in the single plant was offered in the endeavor to show that their
inclusion in the unit was unlawful. Held:
(1) That refusal by the Board to admit the additional evidence
was not arbitrary, since the two proceedings were virtually one and
the knowledge of the workers' desires obtained in the first could
properly be considered in the second. P. 157.
(2) A refusal to admit evidence that the union at the single
plant was free from employer-domination, was within the discretion of the Board, in view of an order forbidding such domination,
which it had made, on stipulation of the employer, in a distinct
proceeding in which the union failed to appear, and in view of the
full investigation made by the Board in the unit hearing, at which
the union and all other interested parties were present. P. 158.
(3) Refusal to admit evidence cumulative to that received at the
unit hearing, to show that the employees at the local plant had interests distinct from those of the employees at the other plants, was
justifiable in view of the testimony on the subject adduced by the
union at the unit hearing. P. 161.
(4) Evidence that the union had bargained for its members
with the employer until the employer refused to do so because of
charges of domination filed against it, and evidence that the membership of the union had increased, might properly be rejected by
the Board as of slight probative value in determining an appropriate
bargaining unit. P. 162.
(5) Considering together all the contentions about exclusion of
evidence, the Court does not find that in the aggregate the evidence
excluded could have materially affected the outcome of the "appropriate unit" issue, in the light of the criteria by which the Board
determined that issue. P. 163.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Counsel for Parties.

313 U. S.

7. Evidence held adequate to support a conclusion of the Labor Board
that all of the employees in a plurality of plants should be included
in one bargaining unit notwithstanding that one of them was a
separate industrial unit, which was not mechanically integrated with
the others, which did not exchange employees with them, and which
had its own superintendent to deal with labor grievances and its
own purchasing agent. P. 163.
Labor policies and wages for all the plants were determined at a
central office. Work, wages, hours, working conditions and manufacturing processes were similar. The Board was justified in finding
that an independent unit at the plant in question would frustrate
general effort at labor adjustments, and would enable the employer
to use the plant for continuous operation in case of stoppage of
labor at the other plants. P. 164.
8. Section 9 (b) of the National Labor Relations Act, which provides
that the Board "shall decide in each case whether, in order to insure the employees the full benefit of their right to self-organization
and to collective bargaining, and otherwise to effectuate the policies
of this Act, the unit appropriate for the purpose of collective bargaining shall be the employer unit, craft unit, plant unit, or subdivision thereof," supplies adequate standards for administrative action and does not unconstitutionally delegate legislative power.
P. 164.
113 F. 2d 698, affirmed.
CERTIORA.I, 311

U. S. 642, to review a judgment affirm-

ing an order of the National Labor Relations Board. 15
N. L. R. B. 515. See also 102 F. 2d 1004, enforcing 8
N. L. R. B. 1210; and 10 N. L. R. B. 1111.
Mr. J. W. McAfee, with whom Messrs. Leland Hazard

and Joseph T. Owens were on the brief, for petitioner in
No. 521. Mr. Henry H. Oberschelp for petitioner in

No. 523.
Solicitor General Biddle, with whom Messrs. Warner

W. Gardner,Robert B. Watts, Laurence A. Knapp, Mortimer B. Wolf, and Owsley Vose were on the brief, for

respondent.

PITTSBURGH GLASS CO. v. BOARD.
146

149

Opinion of the Court.

M . JusTIcm

REED

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The petitioners in the two cases covered by these certioraris' are the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company, an
employer, and the Crystal City Glass Workers Union, an
"independent" or "local" union, that is a union unaffiliated with any other employee organization. Charged
with an unfair labor practice in refusing to bargain collectively with duly accredited representatives of its employees, the Company countered the complaint with the
assertion that it had and did bargain collectively with
the proper representatives of its employees but that it
denied the validity of a Board decision including the
Crystal City plant of the Company as a part of the appropriate bargaining unit. The central issue thus is the
legality of the Labor Board's decision, under § 9 (b) of
the National Labor Relations Act,' determining that "the
production and maintenance employees of the Company"
at all six plants of its flat glass division, as a whole, constitute the appropriate unit for collective bargaining for
the Crystal City employees, rather than the employees
of the Crystal City plant only. The Board's conclusion
is challenged on the merits, on procedural and on constitutional grounds. The certioraris were granted because of the importance of the "appropriate unit" problem in the administration of the Act.
The six plants of the flat glass division are located in
five different states: Ford City, Pennsylvania; Creighton, Pennsylvania; Mount Vernon, Ohio; Clarksburg,
West Virginia; Henryetta, Oklahoma; and Crystal City,
'Certioraris granted, 311 U. S. 642.

'49 Stat. 449.

150

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

Missouri.' The normal number of employees in the
whole division is about 6500. The Crystal City plant,
with 1600, and the slightly larger plants at Ford City and
Creighton account for the bulk of these workers; the
remaining three together employ only about 1000. The
Federation of Flat Glass Workers, an affiliate of the Congress of Industrial Organization, has a majority of all
the employees in the flat glass division and also a majority at each plant except Crystal City. Its position,
which the Board sustained, is that the entire division
should be a single bargaining unit. The Crystal City
Union, which claims a majority at that plant, and the
Company both contend that the circumstances of this
case require Crystal City to be separated from the rest
of the division for the purpose of fixing the unit.
The present proceedings are the third stage of this
labor dispute. Originally, in June, 1938, the Board filed
a complaint against the Company alleging domination
of and interference with the Crystal City Union in violation of §§ 8 (1) and (2).' The Crystal City Union
was not named as a party in that proceeding. Before
any hearing had been held the Company consented to
entry of an order that it would cease and desist from
dominating or contributing to the Crystal City Union or
from recognizing or dealing with it as a labor organization. The Board issued the stipulated order in September, 1938, and later, also pursuant to the stipulation,
obtained an enforcement order from the Circuit Court
"The division also includes two small plants with 65 employees
at Kokomo and Elwood, Indiana. The work done at these plants
is not similar to that at any of the six referred to, and none of the
parties contended that they should be included in the unit. Accordingly, the Board excluded them.
'The complaint also alleged certain unlawful discriminations in
regard to hire and tenure, and other interferences with the em-

ployees' right of self-organization.

PITTSBURGH GLASS CO. v. BOARD.
Opinion of the Court.

146

of Appeals.' The Federation of Flat Glass Workers,
which had filed the charges leading to the issuance of the
complaint, also had requested an investigation and certification of representatives pursuant to § 9 (c) of the
Act. Extensive hearings on this second stage took place
in October, 1938, at which the Crystal City Union appeared and participated. On January 13, 1939, the
Board issued its decision fixing the bargaining unit and
certification of representatives. The Board found that
the Company's production and maintenance employees
throughout the entire flat glass division (with the exception of window glass cutters, clerical employees not directly connected with production, and supervisory employees) constitute an appropriate unit, and it certified
the Federation as the exclusive representative of all the
employees in the unita This order, under our ruling in
American Federation of Labor v. Labor Board,' was not
subject to direct judicial review under § 10 (f) of the
Act. The Company, however, continued to assert that
the Crystal City plant should be excluded from the unit,
and refused to bargain with the Federation with respect
to that group of employees. Accordingly, about a month
after its certification order, the Board issued a complaint
in this proceeding, the third and pending stage of the
labor dispute, alleging a refusal to bargain collectively in
violation of §§ 8 (1) and (5). At the hearing on this
complaint, at which the Crystal City Union was permitted to intervene, the trial examiner excluded a certain
offer of proof by it and the Company. For various reasons the Board found that the exclusion was in part
proper and for the rest non-prejudicial. On the merits
the Board, with one member dissenting, adhered to its
102 F. 2d 1004, enforcing 8 N. L. R. B. 1210.

610 N. L. R. B. 1111.
'308 U. S. 401.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

original view that the Crystal City plant should be included in the unit and therefore found that the Company
had committed an unfair labor practice
The Company
and the Crystal City Union sought review of the Board's
decision in the Circuit Court of Appeals, which affirmed,9
and we brought the case here on certiorari.
To reach a conclusion upon the complaint under consideration against the Company of unfair labor practices,
violating § 8, subsections (1) and (5) of the National Labor Relations Act, the validity of the Board's decision as
to the appropriate unit must be decided. As the unfair
practice charged was the refusal to bargain collectively
because of the inclusion of the Crystal City employees in
the unit, if they were improperly included the complaint
fails.
The Labor Act places upon the Board the responsibility of determining the appropriate group of employees
for the bargaining unit. In accordance with this delegation of authority, the Board may decide that all employees of a single employer form the most suitable unit for
the selection of collective bargaining representatives, or
the Board may decide that the workers in any craft or
plant or subdivision thereof are more appropriate."0 The
815 N. L. R. B. 515.
'113 F. 2d 698.
10 49 Stat. 453:
"SEc. 9. (a) Representatives designated or selected for the purposes of collective bargaining by the majority of the employees in
a unit appropriate for such pruposes, shall be the exclusive representatives of all the employees in such unit for the purposes of
collective bargaining in respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of
employment, or other conditions of employment: Provided, That
any individual employee or a group of employees shall have the
right at any time to present grievances to their employer.
"(b) The Board shall decide in each case whether, in order to
insure to employees the full benefit of their right to self-organization and to collective bargaining, and otherwise to effectuate the

PITTSBURGH GLASS CO. v. BOARD.
146

153

Opinion of the Court.

petitioners' contention that § 9 (a) grants to the majority
of employees in a unit appropriate for such purposes the
absolute right to bargain collectively through representatives of their own choosing " is correct only in the sense
that the "appropriate unit" is the one declared by the
Board under § 9 (b), not one that might be deemed appropriate under other circumstances. In its Annual Reports, the Board' has stated the general considerations
which motivate its action:
"In determining whether the employees of one, several, or all plants of an employer, or the employees in
all or only a part of a system of communications, transportation, or public utilities, constitute an appropriate
unit for the purposes of collective bargaining, the Board
has taken into consideration the following factors: (1)
the history, extent, and type of organization of the employees; (2) the history of their collective bargaining,
including any contracts; (3) the history, extent, and type
of organization, and the collective bargaining, of employees of other employers in the same industry; (4) the relationship between any proposed unit or units and the
employer's organization, management, and operation of
his business, including the geographical location of
the various plants or parts of the system; and (5) the
skill, wages, working conditions, and work of the employees." 12
In its hearings on the appropriate unit the Board
received evidence as to the organization of the Compolicies of this Act, the unit appropriate for the purposes of collective bargaining shall be the employer unit, craft unit, plant unit,
or subdivision thereof."
1§ 7.
Fourth Annual Report (1939) 89-90. See also First Annual
Report (1936) 112-20; Second Annual Report (1937) 1:22-40;
Third Annual Report (1938) 156-97; Fifth Annual Report (1940)
63-72.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

pany, the variety of its business, its distribution of this
business into divisions and the location, size and method
of operation of its flat glass plants, which composed the
flat glass division. The history of collective bargaining
in the business was developed. Finally the relation of
the several plants of the flat glass division was examined
and the characteristics of each plant and their respective employees gone into. From this evidence the Board
determined that the production and maintenance employees of the six scattered flat glass plants were the
appropriate unit and that the Federation, which had
majorities of the employees in all the plants except
Crystal City, was the labor representative for purposes
of collective bargaining.
The Company and the local union contend that
Crystal City's inclusion was erroneous because neither in
the hearings on the appropriate unit nor on this unfair
labor practice did the Board permit the introduction
of material evidence on the question of appropriate
units, the exclusion of which was prejudicial to the
respondents.
While the ruling of the Board determining the appropriate unit for bargaining is not subject to direct
review under the statute, the ruling is subject to challenge when, as here, a complaint of unfair practices is
made predicated upon the ruling. " Petitioners press
that challenge upon the ground (1) that the procedure
denied due process of law, (2) that there was no substantial evidence to justify the ruling, and (3) that the
authority granted the Board is an unconstitutional
delegation of legislative power.
First. Petitioners find in the refusal of the Board to
admit certain proffered evidence in the unit hearing and
"American Federation of Labor v. Labor Board, 308 U. S. 401,
408-411.

PITTSBURGH GLASS CO. v. BOARD.
146

Opinion of the Court.

in this hearing a denial of due process in that the exclusion was illegal and arbitrary in depriving the parties
of a full and fair hearing as guaranteed by the Fifth
Amendment. The petitioners sought to adduce the
excluded evidence by petition to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for an order that the additional evidence be
taken by the Board. " This was denied.
There is no challenge to the September 22, 1938, order
of the Board, subsequently affirmed by the Court, 5 in
the original proceeding where the Crystal City Glass
Workers Union was not a party. This withdraws the
employer's recognition of the Union as the employees'
representative "as a labor organization." As the order
does not run against the Union, its presence -was unAfter such an order the employer may not
necessary.'
be compelled by any other agency of the government to
perform any acts inconsistent with that order. 7 While
it leaves the Union's private rights untouched this order
does forbid further dealings by the Company with the
Union as labor representative of the employees.
National Licorice Co. v. Labor Board, 309 U. S. 350,
366.
Acquiescing, for the argument, in the conclusion that
selection of the appropriate unit is a function of the
Board, petitioners urge that this function must be exercised in the light of properly available evidence. Much
may be and was said upon either side of the issue as
to whether Crystal City plant or the flat glass division
would be the most efficient collective bargaining unit.
Additional evidence might have brought the Board to a
' § 10(e) and (f); Corsolidated Edison Co. v. Labor Board, 305

U. S. 197, 226.
102 F. 2d 1004.
"Labor Board v. Greyhound Lines, 303 U. S. 261, 271; National
Licorice Co. v. Labor Board, 309 U. S. 350, 365.
'National Licorice Co. v. Labor Board, supra, 364.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

different conclusion. Hence, urge petitioners, the Board's
refusal to permit the introduction of certain evidence
before it, either in the hearing on the appropriate unit
and certification of representatives or in this present
hearing on unfair labor practices predicated upon that
determination and certification, is important. As the
Board's conclusion upon the appropriate unit determined
that the Federation, the choice of a majority in the
selected unit, would be the bargaining representative for
all, including the Crystal City employees, we need not
give specific consideration to the refusal of the Board
to certify the petitioner, the Crystal City Glass Workers
Union, as the bargaining representative of those workers. Certification of the bargaining representative follows the determination of the appropriate unit. As will
presently appear, however, this does not dispose of the
admissibility of evidence as to the Crystal City workers'
desire to be represented by the Union. This is a fact
which has a bearing on the determination of the
appropriate unit.
For the same reason, the availability of a workers'
organization for purposes of representation is not in itself
decisive in determining the appropriate bargaining unit.
Naturally the wishes of employees are a factor in a Board
conclusion upon a unit. They are to be weighed with
the similarity of working duties and conditions, the character of the various plants and the anticipated effectiveness of the unit in maintaining industrial peace'through
collective bargaining. It can hardly be said that the
domination of a labor union by an employer is irrelevant
to the question of what unit is appropriate for the choice
of labor representative, but certainly it is a collateral
matter in that investigation. It is only a fact to take
into consideration. If the unit chosen has an employer
dominated union, the workers may be given an opportunity to choose representatives, free of this infirmity,

PITTSBURGH GLASS CO. v. BOARD.

157

Opinion of the Court.

146

and if the union is free of employer influence, it may
be chosen as representative. In short, domination pertains directly to representation but influences the choice
of a unit only casually.
Turning to the refusal of the Board to admit tendered
evidence in this case, there are five instances alleged
as error. 18 In the next preceding paragraph we have
referred to the first, the desire of 1500 worker out of
1800 in the Crystal City plant to have that plant a
bargaining unit and their opposition to Federation representation. This was before the Board. The petition of
the Crystal City workers was presented in the hearing
on the appropriate unit, was admitted and considered.19
It is entirely proper for the Board to utilize its knowledge
S15 N. L. R. B. at 518.
The petition was admitted after the following colloquy:
"Mr. HOLMES. We certainly object to the introduction of a petition of that kind in evidence, being irrelevant, not proper to show
the wishes of the individual employees or members of this claimed
Union at Crystal City. It has no place at this hearing, it is not
proper evidence.

"Mr.

BUCHANAN.

We ask for the records.

"Trial Examiner DUDLEY. I will admit the exhibits for such weight
as it may have."
In its opinion on the appropriate unit the Board said (10 N. L.
R. B. at 1118):
"Moreover, the prior existence of the Crystal City Union for
over 3 years, until almost the day of the hearing in this proceeding,
to a large degree explains the desire of the 1,300 Crystal City
employees for a separate bargaining unit, as expressed in their
petition, and such desires may well undergo a radical change as the
effect of the termination of the Crystal City Union's function as
a labor organization is fully realized by these employees."
In its opinion on the refusal to bargain (15 N. L. R. B. at 523):
"In so far as this evidence can be assumed to show opposition
among the Crystal City plant employees to the Federation, the
Board's Decision of January 13, 1939, considered such arguments
by the respondent and the Crystal City Union. We see no reason
to alter our determination there set forth."

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

of the desires of the -workers obtained in the prior unit
proceeding, since both petitioners, ,the employer and
the Crystal City Union, were parties to that prior proceeding.2 The unit proceeding and this complaint on
unfair labor practices are really one. 2' Consequently
the refusal to admit further evidence of the attitude
of the workers is unimportant.
The second offer refused is to produce evidence that the
Crystal City Union, contrary to the previous finding of
the Board in a distinct proceeding in which the Union was
' Cf. Final Report of the Attorney General's Committee on Administrative Procedure, p. 70.
2149 Stat. 453, § 9:

"(c) Whenever a question affecting commerce arises concerning the
representation of employees, the Board may investigate such controversy and certify to the parties, in writing, the name or names
of the representatives that have been designated or selected. In any
such investigation, the Board shall provide for an appropriate hearing
upon due notice, either in conjunction with a proceeding under section 10 or otherwise, and may take a secret ballot of employees, or
utilize any other suitable method to ascertain such representatives.
"(d) Whenever an order of the Board made pursuant to section 10 (c) is based in whole or in part upon facts certified following
an investigation pursuant to subsection (c) of this section, and there
is a petition for the enforcement or review of such order, such certification and the record of such investigation shall be included in the
transcript of the entire record required to be filed under subsections 10 (e) or 10 (f), and thereupon the decree of the court enforcing, modifying, or setting aside in whole or in part the order of
the Board shall be made and entered upon the pleadings, testimony,
and proceedings set forth in such transcript."
Section 10 (c) sets out the procedure before the Board for the
hearing of complaints alleging unfair labor practices by employers.
It requires a written record of the hearing. Sections 10 (e) and
10 (f) give the right of judicial enforcement and review of the
Board's orders on such complaints to the Circuit Courts of Appeals
on petition of the Board or any person aggrieved by the order.

PITTSBURGH GLASS CO. v. BOARD.
146

Opinion of the Court.

not a party," is free of employer domination. The entry
of the order upon stipulation and consent does not detract
from its force. Swift & Co. v. United States, 276 U. S.
311, 327. As previously explained, this question of domination is a collateral issue to the determination of the
appropriate unit and we think to refuse to hear again upon
a subject this remote from the inquiry was well within the
discretion of the Board.2
On September 22, 1938, the
Board issued its cease and desist order directed against
"recognizing or dealing with the Union as a labor organization" and on January 13, 1939, its appropriate unit
order. The first order is not attacked. It is true that the
Board based its refusal to permit this evidence partly on
the finality of the original order. But it was of the view
that the Crystal City Union had not availed itself of its
chance to enter an appearance or voluntarily intervene
N. L. R. B. 1210. After stipulation the following excerpts
became part of the Board's order:
The Company shall
"1. Cease and desist:
"(a) From such unfair labor practices as have occurred in the
past; ...
"(h) From in any manner dominating or interfering with the
administration of the Crystal City Glass Workers' Union or any
other organization of its employees, or contributing aid or support
to said organization, or any other labor organization of its employees; from recognizing or dealing with the Crystal City Glass
Workers' Union as a labor organization, or any person or group of
persons purporting to represent said organization.
"2. Take the following affirmative action which the Board finds
will effectuate the policies of the Act:
"(a) Withdraw all recognition from the Crystal City Glass Workers' Union as the representative of the respondent's employees, or
any of them, as a labor organization, and notify said organization
to that effect; .
United States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., 310 U. S. 150, 228;
Tennessee Power Co. v. T. V. A., 306 U. S. 118, 145.
'28

160

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

in that proceeding."
The Board had just barred the
Company from dominating the Union and caused it to
withdraw recognition from it as an employee labor organization. At the hearing on the appropriate unit, at
which all parties here were represented and took active
part, full investigation was made of the relevant criteria
to determine the appropriate bargaining unit. The history of the Federation was appraised, its efforts at divisionwide collective bargaining, the opposition of Crystal City
employees to the Federation and the characteristics of
the various plants. These are factors which the Board
thought determinative of the appropriate unit. Whether
the Union was dominated by the employer or not was not
stressed in fixing the unit. Counsel for the Union stated
his position at the unit hearing as follows:
"I want to make a statement inasmuch as counsel for
the Federation of Flat Glass Workers has made his statement. Very briefly I want to state the position of the
Crystal City Glass Workers' Union. When the first
statement was made by counsel, it was apparent that this
proceeding is going to revolve about the Crystal City
plant, which is Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company Plant
No. 9. We expect to show on behalf of Plant No. 9
that approximately 1,300 out of the total of 1,600 employees are members of the Crystal City Glass Workers'
Union. We expect to show that with reference to the
integration at the plant the conditions are entirely different, they are very different in Crystal City than in
any other plant. We expect to show that there are
certain distinct features with reference to the CrystalCity plant that do not exist at any other plant.
"We expect to show further that community conditions differ entirely at Crystal City from what they are
at any other plant.
' 15 N. L. R. B. at 519, n. 4.

PITTSBURGH GLASS CO. v. BOARD.
146

Opinion of the Court.

"We expect to show that the social status, the economic status and the community status in general of
the employees who work in the Crystal City plant is entirely different than it is in any other plant of the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company.
"If we show those things we feel that the proper unit
for the Crystal City plant is the plant unit because of
the conditions that I have mentioned, and if any other
organization with any other unit was recognized at that
plant, it would defeat the purpose of the Act."
Each of these points was fully covered by the evidence
before the Board on the unit hearing, with the result
that the Crystal City Union received a full and complete
hearing on every proposition covered by the statement.
The refusal to reconsider the issue of domination in
the present unfair labor practice hearing accords, in our
view, with the Board's discretionary powers.
The other three instances may be listed in the language of the Board, adopted by petitioners, as follows:
(3) that the employees at the Crystal City plant had
distinct interests from employees at the Company's other
plants; (4) that the Crystal City Union had bargained
collectively with the Company for its members until the
Company refused to continue such bargaining because ol
the charges filed against it by the Federation; and (5)
that since the stipulation of July 22, 1938, was entered
into by the Board, the Company and the Federation, and
since the Board's decision of January 13, 1939, the membership of the Crystal City Union had increased.
With respect to item (3), the distinct interests of the
Crystal City employees, the Board ruled that in the unit
proceeding the Company and the Crystal City Union
were given full opportunity to present such evidence,
and in the present proceeding neither of them had indicated that the proof sought to be admitted related to
evidence unavailable at, discovered since, or not intro:326252 --41-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

troduced in, the unit hearing. The full justification for
this ruling by the Board becomes clear only after an examination of the record in the unit proceeding, which
under § 9(d) of the Act is part of the record here.
The Crystal City Union appeared at the unit proceeding; it participated in the hearings; it called witnesses, and cross-examined those called by the other
parties. A great deal of the hearing was taken up by
testimony designed to bring out any interests of the
Crystal City workers that might be distinct from those
of employees at other plants. Thus there was abundant
testimony with respect to their racial origins, their agricultural surroundings, their inclination or disinclination
to visit cities, their lack of a "union" background, their
recreational habits, etc. There was also a thorough canvassing of all the details in which the processes of production and the working conditions at Crystal City
diverged from those at the other plants. If the Company or the Crystal City Union desired to relitigate this
issue, it was up to them to indicate in some way that
the evidence they wished to offer was more than cumulative. Nothing more appearing, a single trial of the
issue was enough.
As to (4), collective bargaining by the Crystal City
Union, and (5), that Union's growing membership at
Crystal City, the Board said:
"Accepting the foregoing offer of proof as correctly
stating the facts, nevertheless, in view of the proceedings against the respondent culminating in the court
decree of January 14, 1939, negotiations between the
respondent and the Crystal City Union cannot be regarded by the Board as evidence of genuine collective
bargaining; nor can the Crystal City Union's membership and representation of employees at the Crystal City
plant be considered by the Board as expressing the free

PITTSBURGH GLASS CO. v. BOARD.
'146

163

Opinion of the Court.

choice of the employees at that plant or as establishing
the existence of another labor organization, in addition
to the Federation, capable of bargaining collectively with
the respondent for the employees there." "
The fact that the local union had undertaken negotiations with the employer or that it had grown in numbers
would be of slight probative value in a proceeding to
determine the bargaining unit. The Board might properly say as it did that accepting the offers of proof it
would not alter the determination of the appropriate
unit.
Further, if we consider all the contentions about
exclusion of evidence together instead of separately, we
do not find that in the aggregate the evidence excluded
could have materially affected the outcome on the
"appropriate unit" issue, in the light of the criteria by
which the Board determined that issue.
Second. Petitioners complain that the record contains no evidence to support certain essential findings.
One of these is the finding in regard to the history of
collective bargaining. The Board determined that the
Federation after 1934 and until 1937 held written labor
agreements covering their members in all the plants of
the Company, including Crystal City:
"Not until January 20, 1937, did the Company for
the first time insist that Crystal City be excluded from
the agreement between it and the Federation on the
ground that the Federation did not have as members a
majority of the employees at this plant. The written
agreement signed on that day, at the insistence of the
Company, despite the Federation's objections, did not
cover the Federation members at Crystal City." 26
15 N. L. R. B. at 523.
"10 N. L. R. B. at 1117.

164

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S'

The Board thought the evidence justified the conclusion
that the Federation had sought and sometimes succeeded
in organizing the Company on a "division-wide" basis.
An examination of the contracts shows that three were
entered into with the Federation between 1934 and 1937,
all three of which recognized obligations towards "employees who are members of the Federation of Flat Glass
Workers of America." Another granted a five per cent
wage increase "in all plate and safety glass plants." This
included Crystal City. There was testimony that all
plants were covered and testimony by petitioners that
the Crystal City plant was not covered. There were certain provisions applicable only where a plant had a local
union. There was none at Crystal City. The evidence,
we conclude, justifies the Board's finding that contracts
were signed on a division-wide basis. Certainl' the express exclusion of Crystal City employees in the 1937
contract on the employer's demand shows an endeavor
to organize on that basis.
Petitioners find failure of evidence to establish the appropriateness of the division-wide unit. It is true the
record shows a substantial degree of local autonomy.
Crystal City is a separate industrial unit, not one mechanically integrated into the division. The local superintendent deals with labor grievances, the plant has its
own purchasing agent and there is no exchange of employees. On the other hand, labor policies and wages
come from the central office in Pittsburgh, there is great
similarity in the class of work done. Wages, hours,
working conditions, manufacturing processes differ only
slightly among the plants. An independent unit at
Crystal City, the Board was justified in finding, would
frustrate division-wide effort at labor adjustments. It
would enable the employer to use the plant there for
continuous operation in case of stoppage of labor at the

PITTSBURGH GLASS CO. v. BOARD.
146

Opinion of the Court.

other plants. 7 We are of the view that there was adequate evidence to support the conclusion that the bargaining unit should be division-wide.
Third. Finally petitioners urge that the standards for
Board action as to the appropriate unit are inadequate to
give a guide to the administrative action and the result
is necessarily capricious, arbitrary and an unconstitutional
delegation of legislative power. We find adequate standards to guide the Board's decision. While the exact limits
of the Board's powers or the precise meaning of the terms
have not been fully defined, judicially, we know that they
lie within the area covered by the words "employer,"
"plant," and "craft." 28 The division-wide unit here
deemed appropriate is well within these limits. As a
standard,, the Board must comply, also, with the requirement that the unit selected must be one to effectuate the
policy of the act, the policy of efficient collective bargaining. Where the policy of an act is so definitely and elab"With reference to the shifting of orders, the head of the Company's flat glass division testified:
"Q. There is some testimony from you about strikes. I don't
know how long. During that time I think you said these plants
were shut down except the Crystal City plant; is that correct?
A. That is right.
Q. And during the time of the strike, did you fill orders from the
Crystal City plant that you would normally have filled from the
other plants?
A. Yes.
Q. And you found that you could successfully transfer the orders
from Creighton and Ford City?
A. There is no difference in the kind of orders they work on.
They may be working at times on the same pattern for the same
automobile company.
Q. All you would do would be to wire Crystal City or Creighton?
A. Yes."
' § 9 (b). Cf. Fifth Annual Report, N. L. R. B., V, G, 1 to 4
inclusive.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
SToNE, J., dissenting.

313 U. S.

orately stated, this requirement acts as a permitted
measure of delegated authority."9
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE:

I think the judgment below should be reversed.
The Board's order, so far as it directs petitioner, the
Glass Company, to recognize and bargain with respondent Federation as the representative of the Company's
employees at its Crystal City plant, cannot be sustained
unless the Board's certification of the Federation as the
appropriate bargaining agency for those employees is
upheld. I think that both should be set aside because
of the Board's failure in those proceedings to afford
to petitioner, Crystal City Glass Workers' Union, an
"appropriate hearing," and its failure to determine the
unfair labor practice issue on the evidence, both of which,
to say nothing of constitutional requirements, are commanded by §§ 9 (c) and 10 (c) of the National Labor
Relations Act.
The Federation, affiliated with the C. I. 0., has organized local unions at each of the Company's six plants
except that at Crystal City, whose employees, some
1600 in number, have been organized by the Union.
The Company has recognized and bargained with the
Federation as the representative of its employees at all
except its Crystal City plant. In 1934 it entered into
a written contract with the Federation which provided
a method of settling grievances of employees at all its
Cf. New York Central Securities Corp. v. United States, 287
U. S. 12, 24-25; Opp Cotton Mills v. Administrator of Wage and
Hour Division, 312 U. S. 126.
Cf. also Labor Board v. Bradford Dyeing Assn., 310 U. S. 318,
340; InternationalAssn. of Machinists v. Labor Board, 311 U. S. 72;
American Federationof Labor v. Labor Board, 308 U. S. 401. Section 9 (b) is treated as valid in these cases.

PITTSBURGH GLASS CO. v. BOARD.
146

SToNE,

167

J., dissenting.

plants, through local unions of the Federation. These
provisions were renewed in 1935 but as the efforts of
the Federation to organize a local union at Crystal City,
begun in 1933 and continued actively during 1937 and
since, have never succeeded, those provisions have remained inoperative at Crystal City. The renewal contract with the Federation in 1937, which is still in force,
does not include the Crystal City plant.
The Union was incorporated in 1938. In April it
organized the employees at the Crystal City plant and
in the following month the Board, on petition of the
Federation, instituted the certification proceeding now
before us. In June of that year the Board issued its
complaint, charging the Company with unfair labor
practices, specifically alleging that it had "dominated
and interfered with the formation and administration"
of the Union. The Company answered denying the allegation. The Union was not a party to the proceeding
and so far as appears had no knowledge of it. The
Board, without taking any evidence and without making any finding of an unfair labor practice, which is
prerequisite to an order under § 10 (c), made its order,
on consent of the Company, directing it to cease and
desist from "in any manner dominating or interfering
with the administration" of the Union, or "contributing
aid or support" to it and "from recognizing or dealing
with it." The usual provision disestablishing the Union
was omitted from the order.
As soon as the Board had made this order it proceeded with hearings in the certification proceeding in
which both the Federation and the Union participated
and in which the Board certified the Federation as the
appropriate bargaining agency for the employees in all
six of the Company's plants.
Upon the refusal of the Company to recognize the
Federation as the agent of its employees at Crystal City,

168

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
STONE, J.,

dissenting.

313 U. S.

the Board, on complaint of the Federation, began the
present unfair labor practice proceeding against the Company. An agreement was then entered into between
the Company and the Federation that the existing bargaining contract with the Federation, which did not
include Crystal City, should remain in force pending a
final determination of the appropriate bargaining unit
for Crystal City.
In the present unfair labor practice proceeding the
Board reconsidered and heard evidence on the question
Df the appropriate unit. In the course of the hearings
both the Union and the Company offered to prove: (1)
that 1500 out of the 1800 employees at Crystal City
belonged to the Union and that these members were
opposed to being represented by the Federation; (2) that
the Union was not dominated by nor had its formation
or administration been interfered with by the Company
and that the Company had not contributed to its financial or other support; (3) that the employees at Crystal
City had distinct interests from those at the other plants
of the Company; (4) that the representatives of the
Union had bargained collectively for its members with
the Company until the Company declined to continue
such bargaining by reason of the consent order of September, 1938, which the Board had entered against it,
to which order and proceedings leading to it the Union
was not a party; and (5) that since the order was made
and since the certification of the Federation as the representative for collective bargaining of all the employees
the membership in the Union had increased.
All of these offers were rejected and the proffered evidence was excluded. The Board reaffirmed its finding
in the certification proceeding that the Federation was
the appropriate bargaining agency and made its order
directing the Company to bargain with the Federation.

PITTSBURGH GLASS CO. v. BOARD.
146

SToNE,

J., dissenting.

One member of the Board, Mr. Leiserson, dissented,
on the ground that the Board's decision was based upon
an assumption that the Crystal City employees were
incapable of making a free choice of representatives and
that the Board's order imposed on the employees at that
plant a representative not of their own choosing without
any opportunity to express their own choice as to representation, and that it disregarded the history of the
bargaining by the Company with the employees at the
Crystal City plant and its existing contract with the
Federation which excluded the Crystal City plant from
its operation.
Throughout the certification and the later unfair
labor practice proceedings the Board took the position
that the Union and the Glass Company, because of the
consent order against the Company, were no longer free
to urge the wishes of the Union members as to representation or to show the actual bargaining relation
between the Union and the Company or that the Company did not in fact dominate the Union. In the certification proceeding the Board stated that the Union, by
reason of the consent order, had "ceased to be able to
function as a labor organization and its existence as
such at Crystal City then terminated" and that "Since
the Crystal City Union can no longer function as a labor
organization, its wishes are immaterial."
In reviewing the evidence in the unfair labor practice
proceeding the Board adhered to its view that the Union
by reason of the consent order must be treated by it as
dominated by the Company and that for that reason
the proffered and rejected evidence on this point was
without weight, and that accordingly it must be taken
that there never had been a "genuine and legitimate
attempt by the Crystal City employees to bargain with
the Company separately from the other plants."

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
STOwm, J., dissenting.

313 U. S.

A substantial part of the Board's findings in both proceedings is devoted to the inferences justifying its conclusion as to the appropriate unit, which it drew from
this so-called finding of domination derived wholly from
the consent order. It found that the wishes of the Union
were immaterial since, under the order, it could no longer
function as a labor organization. It stated that the
existence of the Union for more than three years "to a
large degree explains the desire of the 1300 Crystal City
employees for a separate bargaining unit, as expressed
in their petition, and such desires may well undergo a
radical change as the effect of the termination of the
Crystal City Union's function as a labor organization is
fully realized by those employees."
In addition the Board thought that the evidence of
negotiations between the Company and the Union, could
not be "evidence of genuine collective bargaining"; it
found that the membership of the large majority of the
Crystal City employees in the Union cannot be considered "as expressing the free choice of the employees at
that plant or as establishing the existence of another
labor organization, in addition to the Federation, capable
of bargaining with the respondent [company] for the
employees there"; and it declared that one of the factors
leading to the conclusion "that the interests of all the
employees of the various plants are interwoven and that
collective bargaining for all the employees involved can
most effectively be achieved through the establishment
of a single bargaining unit," was "the fact that the
membership of the Crystal City Union is coerced and
not voluntary." Thus on the questions as to the desires
of the employees in each of the six plants and the history
of collective bargaining there-both factors which the
Board has uniformly considered heretofore in determining the probable effectiveness of future bargaining on
the basis of a unit claimed to be appropriate-the Board

PITTSBURGH GLASS CO. v. BOARD.
146

STONu, J.,

171

dissenting.

has not only rejected proffered evidence, admittedly
relevant, but has drawn conclusions contrary to the
rejected evidence, from facts found by the Board to be
true, only by treating the conflicting evidence tendered
by the Union as without weight.
In order to appraise the issues in the several proceedings before the Board and its action taken with respect to them, it is necessary to consider the function
which the Board was called on to perform both in the
certification proceedings and the unfair labor practice
proceeding, both of which are now before us for review
as provided by § 9 (d) of the Act. Section 9 (a) provides that representatives "designated or selected for the
purposes of collective bargaining by the majority of
the employees in a unit appropriate for such purposes,
shall be the exclusive bargaining representatives of all
the employees in such unit for the purposes of collective
bargaining." And under § 9 (b) it is the duty of the
Board to "decide in each case whether, in order to insure
to employees the full benefit of their right to self-organization and to collective bargaining, and otherwise to effectuate the policies of this Act, the unit appropriate for
the purposes of collective bargaining shall be the employer unit, craft unit, plant unit, or subdivision thereof."
The policies of the Act which the Board is to effectuate
by its choice of the proper bargaining unit, are declared
by § 1 to be the mitigation and elimination of obstructions to interstate commerce resulting from labor disputes
"by encouraging the practice and procedure of collective
bargaining and by protecting the exercise by workers of
full freedom of association, self-organization, and designation of representatives of their own choosing," for purposes of collective bargaining "or other mutual aid or
protection."
It wili be observed that the function assigned to the
Board is not the choice of the labor organization to rep-

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
STONE, J., dissenting.

313 U. S.

resent a bargaining unit, for that is to be the free choice
of the majority of the employees in some defined group
of employees which the Board finds to constitute the appropriate unit. In making the choice of the unit,
whether composed of the employees of a plant, a craft,
or of an employer, the Board is required to observe the
standards prescribed by the Act, which are "to insure
to employees the full benefit of their right to self-organization and to collective bargaining" and to protect "the
exercise' by workers of full freedom of association, selforganization, and designation of representatives of their
own choosing."
These are obviously the standards to be applied in a
certification proceeding under § 9 (c) which provides that
when a question arises "concerning the representation of
employees, the Board may investigate such controversy
and certify to the parties, in writing, the name or names
of the representatives that have been designated or selected. In any such investigation, the Board shall provide for appropriate hearing upon due notice, either in
conjunction with a proceeding under section 10 [complaints for unfair labor practices] or otherwise and may
take a secret ballot of employees or utilize any other suitable method to ascertain such representatives." A similar requirement is imposed on the Board upon complaint
of unfair labor practices.
It is evident therefore that in the present proceeding
the Board could not find the Company guilty of an unfair labor practice unless it had refused to bargain with
the representative of an appropriate unit, which in turn
required the Board to find from relevant evidence which
it was required to hear whether the employees of the
Crystal City plant constituted such a unit. In making
that determination the Board considered, as it could
under § 9 (d), the certification proceeding, but it was
not required to and did not confine its consideration to

PITTSBURGH GLASS CO. v. BOARD.
146

STONE,

J., dissenting.

that proceeding. It heard evidence by numerous witnesses bearing on the question of the appropriate unit.
It was bound to receive and consider all the evidence
relevant to that issue, which was whether the policies of
the Act would be better effectuated and whether the right
of all of the Company's employees to self-organization
would be fully secured by certifying a unit comprising
all the employees of the six plants, or two units, one composed of the Crystal City employees and the other the
employees in the five plants where the Federation admittedly had a majority.
The Board has always hitherto weighed the desires of
the employees in determining the appropriate unit. And
here the Board concedes that the Crystal City employees
strongly preferred to be represented by the Union. In
refusing to attribute any weight to this fact the Board
found that their choice was not free, since it considered
that the Union, because of the consent order, was company dominated. Whether the Union and the employees
were in fact dominated by the employer, and the nature
of the bargaining relations with the employer, were
thus crucial issues in the case to be determined on evidence. And we are confronted with the extraordinary
fact that the Board has determined those issues without
ever having heard any evidence on the subject either in
the present or the two earlier proceedings.
The present wishes of the employees, their freedom
in self-organization from the domination and interference of the employer, their past bargaining relations
with the employer, were all admittedly relevant considerations. Even though the Board could have refused to
hear the evidence offered as to the wishes of the Crystal
City employees and as to the prior bargaining history
there, on the ground that, if true, the greater effectiveness of employee bargaining through a division-wide
representative and the common interests of the em-

174

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

313 U. S.

ployees in the six plants warranted the selection of the
employees in the six plants as the appropriate unit,
it did not attempt to do so. Instead, it rejected the
evidence proffered by the Union not on technical or procedural grounds, nor because it thought these circumstances immaterial, or insufficient to change its determination, but on the sole ground that the Union was company dominated and "had ceased to function" by reason
of the Board's order directing the Company not to bargain with it. It did this without having found in the
present or in either of the earlier proceedings that the
Union had ever been dominated or interfered with by
the Company, and without having made any order running against the Union or purporting to bind it. The
position of the Board thus seems to be that the right
of the Crystal City employees to act as a unit, and the
right of the Union to represent them in proceedings for
ascertaining the appropriate bargaining unit and in collective bargaining with the employer, were forever foreclosed in a proceeding in which they were not represented, to which the Union was not a party, in which no
evidence was received or finding made of any unfair
labor practice, and which resulted only in an order on
consent of the employer which did not purport to control
the Crystal City employees or the Union, or determine
their rights.
The only support which the opinion of the Court
affords for a result so extraordinary is an intimation that
the Crystal City employees and the Union had forfeited
their right to have the proffered evidence considered by
the Board because the Union had failed to intervene in
the first proceeding in which the Board made its consent
order against the Company, and because in the opinion
of the Court the excluded evidence, if considered, would
not have materially affected the outcome.

PITTSBURGH GLASS CO. v. BOARD.
146

SToNE, J., dissenting.

As the opinion of the Court itself points out, the first
order of the Board did not run against or purport to
bind the Union, see Labor Board v. Pennsylvania Greyhound Lines, 303 U. S. 261; and as this Court has decided the Board is without authority under the provisions of the Act, to say nothing of constitutional limitations, to make any order determining the rights of a
labor organization in a proceeding to which it is not
made a party. It was because the Board purported
thus to determine the rights of an absent party which
had failed to intervene, that we modified its order in
National Licorice Co. v. Labor Board, 309 U. S. 350, 362,
367. It is new doctrine in the law, that one who is not
a necessary party to a proceeding in which no order is
made against him, nevertheless in some way and on some
undisclosed theory, forfeits his rights if he does not voluntarily become a party. At the present term of Court
we have had occasion to reaffirm the long recognized
principle that a judgment of a court which purports to
bind parties not present or represented in the litigation
is without efficacy to bind them because if given such
effect the judgment would be a denial of due process.
Hansberry v. Lee, 311 U. S. 32. The order of an administrative board can have no greater force.
There is no provision of the statute providing for
notice or other procedure on the basis of which the rights
of absent parties are to be foreclosed, and in the present
case it does not even appear that the Union or the Crystal City employees were notified or were otherwise aware
of the proceeding in which the order was made on consent of the employer, which it is now asserted operated
to terminate the existence of the Union and for that
reason forfeited its right and the right of the employees
to have relevant evidence considered in a representation
proceeding.

176

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

313 U. S.

The suggestion that an appropriate hearing upon evidence may be dispensed with because the rejected evidence would not have materially affected the outcome,
seems to be based either on the assumption that the Board
has in some way passed on the weight of the rejected evidence without hearing it, or that the Court is now free to
appraise it and perform the ftinction which the Board,
neglected to perform. Neither position is tenable. The
Board refused to consider any of the proffered evidence
on the sole and erroneous ground that the Union and the
Crystal City employees had lost the status which they
otherwise would have had entitling them to have their
wishes and their relations with the employer considered
in a representation proceeding. We have no warrant
for saying that the Board would have attributed less
weight to these factors than to others favorable to the
Federation which it did consider, or that if it had thought
that it was free to consider them the outcome would have
been the same, or that in any case, on review of the Board's
order, the interested parties would not have been entitled
to urge that the Board, upon consideration of all the
evidence, had not properly exercised its discretion.
As we are often reminded, most of the decisions of the
Board involve discretion which is to be exercised by it
alone and not the courts. For that reason the only substantial right of the litigant before the Board is, in most
cases, the right to invoke the exercise of that discretion
upoh a full and fair consideration of all the relevant evidence. That right the Board has denied to petitioners in
this !case by refusing to consider the evidence upon palpably erroneous grounds. We are no more free in this case
to pass upon the weight and sufficiency of the evidence,
with the details of which, like the Board, we are unacquainted, than in any other case in which the Board is
required to receive and pass upon evidence.

PITTSBURGH GLASS CO. v. BOARD.
146

177

Syllabus.

One of the most important safeguards of the rights of
litigants and the minimal constitutional requirement, in
proceedings before an administrative agency vested with
discretion, is that it cannot rightly exclude from consideration facts and circumstances relevant to its inquiry which
upon due consideration may be of persuasive weight in
the exercise of its discretion. InterstateCommerce Commission v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 218 U. S. 88, 102;
St. Joseph Stock Yards Co. v. United States, 298 U. S. 38,
75, 78; Ohio Bell Telephone Co. v. Commission, 301 U. S.

292,304,305.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS concur in

this opinion.

PHELPS DODGE CORP. v. NATIONAL

LABOR

RELATIONS BOARD.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 387.

Argued March 11, 1941.-Decided April 28, 1941.

1. Under § 8 (3) of the National Labor Relations Act, an employer
who refuses to hire an applicant for employment solely because of
the applicant's affiliation with a labor union is guilty of an unfair
labor practice. P. 182.
2. When applicants have been unlawfully refused employment solely
because of their affiliations with a labor union, § 10 (c) of the Labor
Act empowers the Labor Board to order the employer to undo the
discrimination by offering them the opportunity for employment
which should not have been denied them. P. 187.
3. In this the Act does not violate the Fifth Amendment. P. 187.
4. In § 10 (c) of the Labor Act, empowering the Labor Board to
require an employer guilty of an unfair labor practice to desist and
*Together with No. 641, National Labor Relations Board v. Phelps
Dodge Corp., also on writ of certiorari, 312 U. S. 669, to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
226252°-41-

12

