CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1940
MAGUIRE ET ux. v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 346.

Argued March 5, 6, 1941.-Decided March 31, 1941.

1. Under the Revenue Act of 1928, the basis for ascertaining gain
or loss from the sale of personalty which had been delivered to
the taxpayer by testamentary trustees is(1) In the case of personalty which the decedent owned, its
value at the time when it was received by the trustees from the
executors. P. 3.
(a) This conclusion is supported by the legislative history of
the applicable provision of § 113 (a) (5) of the Act. P. 5.
(b) Under § 113 (a) (5), which provides that the basis for
ascertaining gain or loss from the sale of property acquired by
general bequest shall be the value at the time of the "distribution
to the taxpayer," the time of "distribution to the taxpayer" in
this case was the time of the delivery of the property to the
trustees by the executors. P. 7.
(2) In the case of personalty purchased by the trustees, the
cost thereof to the trustees. P. 8.
(a) The property purchased by the testamentary trustees and
subsequently delivered to the taxpayer was not "acquired by
will"; and the basis is governed by § 113 (a), not by § 113 (a)

(5).

P. 9.

2. Although the title of an Act may not be construed to limit the
plain meaning of the text, it may be of aid in resolving an ambiguity. P. 9.
111 F. 2d 843, affirmed.
326252-41-

1

1

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

CERTIORARI, 311 U. S. 627, to review the reversal of a
decision of the Board of Tax Appeals redetermining a
deficiency in income tax.
Mr. Francis E. Baldwin, with whom Mr. Albert H.
Veeder was on the brief, for petitioners.
Miss Helen R. Carloss argued the cause, and Solicitor
General Biddle, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and
Messrs. Sewall Key, Norman D. Keller, Thomas E.
Harris, and Arthur A. Armstrong were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JuSTlcE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The taxpayer's 1 share of a testamentary trust, established pursuant to the will of her father, was delivered
to her in kind in 1923. The property was personalty,
part of which had been owned by the decedent and part
purchased by the trustees. The decedent died in 1903
and his executors were discharged by the probate court
in 1905. Pursuant to that order the executors turned
over to themselves, as trustees, all of the residue of the
estate.2 From that residue the taxpayer's claim to the
property in question derived. During the year 1930
'Petitioners are husband and wife who filed a joint return. The
income here involved is that of the wife.
'The will directed the executors and trustees, not less than ten
and not more than twenty years after the death of the testator, to
make final distribution of this residue as follows: ".

.

. to my wife

the one-third part thereof, the balance to be equally divided among
my children, share and share alike, and should my wife not be living
at the time of such distribution, then the same shall be divided
equally among my children, share and share alike, the descendants
of any deceased children in such distribution to take the proportion
of their deceased parent, . . ."

MAGUIRE v. COMMISSIONER.
1

Opinion of the Court.

parts of both groups of property were sold.' The questions presented relate to the proper basis under the
Revenue Act of 1928 (45 Stat. 791) for determining gain
or loss upon those sales: (1) whether the basis in case
of the personalty owned by decedent is its value when
received by the trustees from the executors or its value
at the date of delivery by the trustees to the taxpayer;
and (2) whether the basis in case of the personalty purchased by the trustees is its cost to the trustees or its
value at the date of delivery by the trustees to the taxpayer. The case is here on a petition for certiorari which
we granted because of a conflict among the circuits on
those two questions.'
I. As respects the property owned by the decedent at
his death, we are of the view that the date when it was
received by the trustees from the executors, rather than
the date when it was delivered by the trustees to the taxpayer, governs. In the case of general bequests,
§ 113 (a) (5) of the Revenue Act of 1928 provided that
"the basis shall be the fair market value of the property
at the time of the distribution to the taxpayer."
But
'The sales were made by trustees of new inter vivos trusts under
which the property had been placed on its delivery in 1923.

It was

stipulated that the beneficiaries (including the taxpayer) were taxable
as though the sales were made by them individually.
'The opinion of the court below is reported at 111 F. 2d 843.

On

the first question it held that the basis was the value at the time
the property was received by the trustees from the executors; on the
second, that the basis was cost to the trustees. On those two questions that decision is in conflict with Commissionerv. Gambrill, 112 F.
2d 530, from the Second Circuit Court of Appeals. And see Commissioner v. Libbey, 100 F. 2d 458.
"Sec. 113 (a) (5) provided: "(a) Property acquired after February
28, 1913.-The basis for determining the gain or loss from the sale
or other disposition of property acquired after February 28, 1913,
shall be the cost of such property; except that . . . (5) Property

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

in case of specific bequests of personalty or in case of
realty, the basis was the fair market value of the property at the death of the decedent. § 113 (a) (5). In the
latter cases the property either vested in the heir or
devisee at death or was rather definitely marked at the
time of death for the legatee. In the former the legatee
normally must have awaited administration of the estate
before the property bequeathed to him could have been
identified with certainty. That difference suggests the
distinction in treatment under § 113 (a) (5) of general
bequests of personalty. It emphasizes that the words
"at the time of the distribution to the taxpayer" meant
the time when the distribution was made out of the estate. It supports the view that Congress focused
transmitted at death.--If personal property was acquired by specific
bequest, or if real property was acquired by general or specific devise
or by intestacy, the basis shall be the fair market value of the property at the time of the death of the decedent. If the property was
acquired by the decedent's estate from the decedent, the basis in the
hands of the estate shall be the fair market value of the property at
the time of the death of the decedent. In all other cases if the
property was acquired either by will or by intestacy, the basis shall
be the fair market value of the property at the time of the distribution to the taxpayer. In the case of property transferred in trust
to pay the income for life to or upon the order or direction of the
grantor, with the right reserved to the grantor at all times prior to
his death to revoke the trust, the basis of such property in the
hands of the persons entitled under the terms of the trust instrument
to the property after the grantor's death shall, after such death, be
the same as if the trust instrument had been a will executed on the
day of the grantor's death;"
Sec. 113 (b) provided: "(b) Property acquired before March 1,
1913.-The basis for determining the gain or loss from the sale or
other disposition of property acquired before March 1, 1913, shall be:
(1) the cost of such property (or, in the case of such property as is
described in subsection (a) .. . (5) .. .of this section, the basis

as therein provided), or (2) the fair market value of such property
as of March 1, 1913, whichever is greater."

MAGUIRE v. COMMISSIONER.
Opinion of the Court.

§ 113 (a) (5) on the decedent's death and the administration of his estate, and not on subsequent transfers or
transmissions of the property.
The legislative history of § 113 (a) (5) lends support
to that conclusion. Prior to the 1928 Act the basis for
property obtained by bequest, devise, or inheritance was
the fair market value "at the time of such acquisition." 6
The House Bill " which became the Revenue Act of 1928
provided that the basis for all property acquired by bequest, devise, or inheritance should be the fair market
value of the property at the date of the decedent's
death-a provision designed to clarify I the meaning of
"acquisition" in the earlier acts.' In the Senate that
"Revenue Act of 1921 (42 Stat. 227). § 202 (a); Revenue Act of
1924 (43 Stat. 253) § 204 (a); Revenue Act of 1926 (44 Stat. 9)
§ 204 (a).
1
H. R. 1, 70th Cong., 1st Sess.
8
H. Rep. No. 2, 70th Cong., 1st Sess., Int. Rev. Bull., Cum. Bull.
1939-1, Pt. 2, p. 396. And see Report of the Joint Committee on
Internal Revenue Taxation, H. Doc. No. 139, 70th Cong., 1st Sess.,
pp. 17-18.
'Much of that confusion was later eliminated by Brewster v.
Gage, 280 U. S. 327, holding that in case of a residuary legatee of
personal property the time of "acquisition" was the date of decedent's
death, not the date of distribution of the property by the executors
to the legatee. That decision was rendered in 1930 under the 1918
and 1921 Acts. The wording of § 113 (a) (5) contained in the 1928
Act was continued in the 1932 Act (47 Stat. 169, 199). But under
the 1934 Act (48 Star. 680, 706) there was a return to the language
of the 1926 Act, the Senate Report stating: "Section 113 (a) 5 of
the Revenue Act of 1932 is a reenactment of a similar provision contained in the 1928 Act. The change in the 1928 Act was made because there was some doubt as to the meaning of the term 'date of
acquisition,' which was the term used under the Revenue Act of
1926. Since the 1928 Act was passed, the Supreme Court has defined 'the date of acquisition' to mean the date of death in the case
of all property passing by bequest, devise, and inheritance, whether
real or personal.. (Brewster v. Gage, 280 U. S. 327.) Section

6

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

language of § 113 (a) (5) was changed to the form in
which it appeared in the Revenue Act of 1928-a change
specifically designed to avoid the confusion as to the
basis on which gain or loss on the sale of property purchased by the executor0 and distributed to beneficiaries
1
was to be determined.
113 (a) 5 of the House bill conforms to the language contained in the
Revenue Act of 1926, so that a uniform basis rule may be required
in the case of property passing at death, whether real or personal."
S. Rep. No. 558, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., Int. Rev. Bull., supra note 8,
pp. 612-613.
10 S. Rep. No. 960, 70th Cong., 1st Sess., Int. Rev. Bull., supra note
8, p. 409, where it was said (p. 427): "It appears that the House bill
is inadequate to take care of a number of situations which frequently
arise. For example, the executor, pursuant to the terms of the will,
may purchase property and distribute it to the beneficiaries, in which
case it is impossible to use the value at the decedent's death as the
basis for determining subsequent gain or loss, for the decedent never
owned the property. Moreover, the fair market value of the property at the decedent's death can not properly be used as the basis,
in case of property transferred in contemplation of death where the
donee sells the property while the donor is living.
"Accordingly, the committee has revised section 113 (a) 5 and certain related sections, so as to provide that in the case of a specific
bequest of personalty or a general or specific devise of realty, or the
transmission of realty by intestacy, the basis shall be the fair market
value at the time of the death of the decedent. In these cases it
may be said, as a matter of substance, that the property for all
practical purposes vests in the beneficiary immediately upon the decedent's death, and therefore the value at the date of death is a
proper basis for the determination of gain or loss to the beneficiary.
The same rule is applied to real and personal property transmitted
by the decedent, where the sale is made by the executor. In all other
cases the basis is the fair market value of the property at the time
of the distribution to the taxpayer. The latter rule would obtain,
for example, in the case of personal property not transmitted to the
beneficiary by specific bequest, but by general bequest or by intestacy. It would also apply in cases where the executor purchases
property and distributes it to the beneficiary."

MAGUIRE v. COMMISSIONER.
1

Opinion of the Court.

There does not appear to be the slightest suggestion
that this change was designed as a substantial departure
from the value-at-death rule. To be sure, it did produce a limited deviation from that principle in that no
income tax effect was to be given changes in value of
personal property, passing otherwise than by specific bequest, during the administration of the estate. But to
hold that it effected the change which petitioner urges
would be to impute to Congress a purpose to go far beyond the exigencies of the specific situations with which
it was dealing.
The language used does not require that result. "Distribution to the taxpayer" is not necessarily restricted
to situations where property is delivered to the taxpayer.
It also aptly describes the case where property is delivered by the executors to trustees in trust for the taxpayer. Such distribution of the estate results in the
acquisition by the taxpayer of an equitable estate under
the testamentary trust. The fact that he does not then
obtain possession or control, the fact that his interest is
conditional or contingent, the fact that legal title may
not be transferred to him until years later, are immaterial. Sec. 113(a) (5) merely provided a point of reference and a standard of value for determination of gains
or losses realized on subsequent sales of property acquired
by bequest, devise, or inheritance. In Brewster v. Gage,
280 U. S. 327, 334, this Court held under earlier acts "
that the date of death was the date of "acquisition"
even in case of a residuary legatee whose interest at the
date of death clearly was not absolute. *That conclusion
suggests that the critical date-is the time when the legatee
acquires some interest in the property although his interest then may not be unconditional. Hence, in case of
remainders governed by § 113 (a) (5) of the 1928 Act, it
1

See note 9, supra.

8

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

cannot realistically be asserted that the date when the
remainderman acquired his interest came later than the
time when he obtained an equitable estate under the testamentary trust.
There are other reasons why we cannot infer that Congress intended to make more than a limited departure
from the value-at-death principle in enacting § 113 (a)
(5) of the 1928 Act. As respondent points out, there
would be a substantial disparity between the treatment
of remaindermen of realty and remaindermen of personality under the same testamentary trust, if the latter
vere given a basis of value at the time of distribution by
the trust. Furthermore, we cannot on the basis of the
legislative history of § 113 (a) (5) impute to Congress a
purpose to allow trustees either to sell the property or to
distribute it in kind, as would be most advantageous for
tax purposes. The creation of such an opportunity for
manipulation of tax liability cannot be lightly presumed.
Similarly we cannot assume in absence of explicit provisions that Congress intended to create substantial
periods of time following the date of death during which
the value of the property bequeathed would have no incidence as respects subsequent gains or losses. Respect
for the obvious symmetry of this statutory scheme induces the conclusion that there was a "distribution to the
taxpayer" when this property was delivered by the executors to the trustees. 2
II. As respects the property which was purchased by
the trustees, we are of the view that its cost to them,
rather than its value at the date of delivery to the tax12We are not aided by administrative construction. The Bureau
of Internal Revenue originally took the view which we have reached.
G. C. M. 6195, VIII-1 Cum. Bull. 99 (1929). This view was reversed in G. C. M. 11309, XII-1 Cum. Bull. 126 (1933). Its
original view was again taken in G. C. M. 14893, XIV-1 Cum. Bull.
202 (1935).

MAGUIRE v. COMMISSIONER.
1

Opinion of the Court.

payer, governs. Sec. 113 (a) provided that the basis in
case of property acquired after February 28, 1913, should
be "the cost of such property." " That standard controls here unless these transactions are governed by the
provision of § 113 (a) (5) that, "In all other cases if the
property was acquired either by will or by intestacy, the
basis shall be the fair market value of the property at
the time of the distribution to the taxpayer." The latter
provision is applicable if the property in question was
"acquired . . . by will." We think it was not.
The title of § 113 (a) (5) is "Property transmitted at
death." While the title of an act will not limit the plain
meaning of the text (Caminetti v. United States, 242
U. S. 470, 490; Strathearn S. S. Co. v. Dillon, 252 U. S.
348, 354), it may be of aid in resolving an ambiguity.
Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41, 65. It suggests, as
does the legislative history which we have related, that
the foregoing provision of § 113 (a) (5) was confined, with
minor exceptions, to the specific property owned by the
decedent at his death. To be sure, the taxpayer's right
in the property in question had its source in the provisions of the will. But there is no indication that Congress in drafting § 113 (a) (5) looked beyond the distribution of the estate by the executors. In that connection, the Senate Report specifically stated that the
foregoing provision of § 113 (a) (5) governed purchases
by the executors.'
No reference was made to purchases
by testamentary trustees. The inference is strong that
Congress was fashioning § 113 (a) (5) on the theory that
for income tax purposes acquisition of personal property
passing by general bequest or intestacy did not occur
until distribution of the estate was made. In that pos" See note 5, supra. And see § 113 (b), supra note 5, as respects
the basis in case of property acquired before March 1, 1913.
" S. Rep. No. 960, supra note 10.

10

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

ture of the problem, property purchased by the executor
(acting, so to speak, in the decedent's stead) prior to
that distribution was acquired by the distributee "by
will." But once the administration of the estate had
been completed and the basic testamentary disposition
effected, subsequent purchases were to be governed by
cost as provided in § 113 (a). Property so purchased
would not be part of the original inheritance. Certainly
if the trustees themselves had sold the property, the
transaction would have been taxable on the cost basis.
To hold that a different basis applies in case the beneficiary made the sale would be to open an avenue for
tax avoidance. Furthermore, we are dealing here with
a statutory scheme which in general recognizes value
at the date of death in computing subsequent gains or
losses. We are not inclined in absence of clear and unambiguous language to imply a 'greater deviation from
that principle than that which is necessitated by the
declared objective of Congress.
Affirmed.
are of
opinion that the judgment should be reversed for the
reasons stated in the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Commissioner v. Gambrill,
112 F. 2d 530.
The CHIEF JusTIcE and MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

