DETROLA CORP. v. HAZELTINE CORP. 259
256

Syllabus.

nition and understood that peril was imminent. Petitioner testified without contradiction that he "hollered"
his warning loudly; that only a narrow space separated
his perch from the engineer's seat; that the engineer's
hearing was "all right"; that petitioner and the engineer
could and did carry on "normal conversations" while the
train was operating; and that there was comparatively
little noise in the cab from the train.
Judged by the test outlined above, that evidence was
ample to warrant submission of the issue to the jury.
Since other questions, which our decision does not touch,
were presented to the Supreme Court of Missouri, the
judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded to that
court for further proceedings not inconsistent with this
opinion.
Reversed.
DETROLA RADIO & TELEVISION CORP. v. HAZELTINE CORPORATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 666. Argued April 7, 1941.-Decided May 12, 1941.
Wheeler reissue patent, No. 19,744, Claims 1-7, inclusive, and 9-13, inclusive, relating to amplifiers in modulated current-carrying signaling
systems, wherein the limit of amplification is automatically maintained
substantially at a predetermined level,-held invalid for want of invention over the prior art. P. 268.
The alleged invention, as upheld by the court below, was of
improved means for obtaining automatic amplification control by
the combination in a radio receiver of a diode detector with a
high resistance connected between the anode of the detector and
the cathode of the amplifying tube, and a direct connection between the anode of the detector and the grid of the amplifier for
impressing negative potential upon the latter, thus obtaining from
the signal voltage a so-called linear response to the variations in
the amplitude of the signal current.

260

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

Wheeler accomplished an old result by a combination of means
which, singly or in similar combination, were disclosed by the
prior art, and notwithstanding the fact that he was ignorant of
the pending applications which antedated his claimed date of
invention and eventuated into patents, he was not in fact the
first inventor, since his advance over the prior art, if any, required only the exercise of the skill of the art.
117 F. 2d 238, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 312 U. S. 671, to review a decree which
affirmed the District Court in upholding a patent, enjoining infringement, and retaining jurisdiction to take an
account of profits, assess damages, etc.

Mr. Samuel E. Darby, Jr., with whom Mr. Floyd H.
Crews was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. William H. Davis, with whom Messrs. R. Morton
Adams and George E. Faithfull were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
July 7, 1927, Harold A. Wheeler applied for a patent
for a circuit designed automatically to control the amplitude of amplified signal voltage in modulated carriercurrent signalling systems. Patent No. 1,879,863 issued
September 27, 1932, to the respondent as assignee of
Wheeler.
A suit was brought in the Eastern District of New
York for infringement of Claims 1, 5, 6, and 10.1 The
District Court held the claims invalid for want of invention. The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit affirmed the decree
September 26, 1934, while the appeal to the Circuit
Court of Appeals was pending, respondent applied for
'Hazeltine Corporation v. Abrams, 7 F. Supp. 908.
'Hazeltine Corporation v. Abrams, 79 F. 2d 329.

DETROLA CORP. v. HAZELTINE CORP.
259

261

Opinion of the Court.

a reissue. After the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals, respondent redrafted the claims and, October 29,
1935, a reissue patent, No. 19,744, was granted. The
present suit was thereafter instituted against the petitioner for infringement of all the thirteen claims of the
reissue except Claim 8.* The District Court held the
patent valid and infringed, and its decree was affirmed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals.8 The petition for certiorari presented, inter alia, the question whether the
decision conflicts with that of the Second Circuit.
Control of the amplification of a modulated carrierwave signal is useful in connection with transmitting and
receiving apparatus and, in the original patent, Wheeler
claimed his system as respects both. In his specifications, however, he confined himself to its application to
receivers, wherein its function is to control the volume
of sound emitted from the loud speaker. In broadcasting, a high frequency wave, known as a carrier wave, is
impressed with another low frequency wave or, as it is
said, modulated. The high frequency, or signal, wave is
picked up by the antenna of a receiver and conducted
thence to the input of an amplifying device which consists of an amplifier tube, or several of them in series.
These tubes have three electrodes, a cathode, an anode,
and a grid, and are called triodes. The signal wave, as
amplified, is carried from the output of the amplifying
device to the input of a vacuum tube, known as a detector or rectifier, which transmutes the alternating current into a unidirectional or direct pulsating current.
This is led to audio tubes which enhance its volume,
and thence to a loud speaker. Such a receiving set has
other equipment for selecting signals of varying frequency and adjusting the amplification of the audio
waves, with which we need not concern ourselves.
*As amended by order of October 13, 1941, see 314 U. S. -

REPORTER.

'Detrola Radio & Television Corp. v. Hazeltine Corporation, 117
F. 2d 238.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

One of the problems of the art has arisen from varia-.
tions of the received signals. When the set is tuned from
a weak signal to a much stronger one, the tendency is for
potential to build up in the last amplifying tube, which
results in what is known as blasting in the loud speaker.
Often the same signal varies in intensity. Weakening
may result in fading, whereby the sound production
weakens or disappears; and strengthening may beget distortion of the sounds emitted.
Wheeler essayed to obviate these objectionable features. It was known that the amplification of the carrier signal could be controlled by increasing or decreasing the potential upon the grid of a triode amplifier.
Wheeler proposed automatically to vary this potential so
as to increase or decrease the degree of amplification and
thus hold it at a substantially predetermined level. To
this end he provided means to increase the negative potential upon the anode of the detector tube in step with
the increased strength of the signal and to conduct a
direct current from that anode to the grid electrode of
one or more of the amplifying tubes. Thus an increase
of the strength of the signal would automatically increase
the negative potential on the grid of the amplifier and
decrease the amplification; the reverse result would be
effected if the signal weakened. The means he adopted
to accomplish this were alternative.
According to one method, the signal was amplified to
a comparatively high voltage, and a diode used as a detector. The output voltage from the detector was approximately as great as that of the amplified signal. By
coupling the cathode and anode of the detector and inserting a resistance in the coupling he could maintain
the anode of the detector slightly negative at all times.
Since he connected all the cathodes in parallel the cathode of the detector was maintained at substantially the
same potential as the cathode of the radio frequency-am-

DETROLA CORP. v. HAZELTINE CORP.
259

263

Opinion of the Court.

plifier. By this means, the anode of the detector could
be maintained normally negative relative to at least a
part of the amplifier cathode. When the rectified current
flowing through the detector circuit increased with the
strength of the signal, there was developed at the output
terminal of the detector circuit, through the operation
of the resistance, which was also connected between the
anode of the detector and the grid of the amplifier, an
increase of negative voltage which, through the direct
current connection from the terminal of the detector circuit to the grid of the amplifier, increased the negative
potential thereof, and lessened the signal amplification.
Conversely, if the strength of the signal current decreased,
the negative potential developed upon the anode of the
detector correspondingly decreased and there was a decreased inhibition of the amplifying power of the signal
amplifier.
In his alternative method, he accomplished the same
result with a triode detector. In this arrangement he
maintained a negative voltage on the grid of the detector
triode by the use of a battery and a potentiometer connected across the cathode of the detector tube. The output circuit of the detector included a resistance connected
between the anode of the detector and the common "B"
battery of a radio set. A direct connection was provided from the output terminal of this circuit to the grid
of the signal amplifier for impressing thereon the potential developed on the anode of the detector. The amplified signal voltage operated to bring into play the
voltage of the battery which created the potential on
the anode of the detector.
According to the specifications, each arrangement had
advantages and disadvantages. The diode detector used
in the first furnished no amplification but it dispensed
with the necessity of an additional battery or source of
current supply. The second not only required an addi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

tional battery but an adjustment between the voltage delivered by the two batteries which co~perate to vary the
negative potential on the anode of the triode detector.
Both arrangements include devices to prevent the
passage from the detector to the audio tubes, and from
the detector to the grid of the amplifier tubes, of undesired forms of electrical energy and both embrace means
to provide a time constant with respect to the transmission of negative potential from the anode of the detector
to the grid of the amplifier. None of these are now asserted to be novel or to constitute a part of the asserted
invention.
In Wheeler's drawings and specifications he exhibited
both methods and said of them that they operate "substantially in the same manner," and again that they are
"substantially similar in operation." In his application
he presented claims which did not specify the kind of detector to be used, and others calling for a diode. All of
the latter were disallowed and he concurred in their cancellation without prejudice. He had asserted in prosecuting his application that "the invention can obviously
be used with any kind of detector." Nine claims were
finally allowed. Just before the patent issued, and nearly
five years after original applitation, Wheeler presented a
number of additional claims. In two he described the
detector as a diode and in one of these he denominated
the resistance connected between the detector anode and
the amplifier cathode as a "high resistance." He asserted that these two claims were "practically the same as
allowed Claim 11," which became Claim 1 of the patent
as issued and specified no particular form of detector tube
and no high resistance. They were allowed as Claims 10
and 11 of the patent as issued.
In the Abrams suit only Claims 1, 5, 6 and 10 were in
issue. The contention was that the invention was a broad
one covering the principle of automatic volume control
by means of any form of circuit. The defendant insisted

DETROLA CORP. v. HAZELTINE CORP. 265
259

Opinion of the Court.

that the patent involved no invention in view of the prior
art and cited patents issued before Wheeler's date of conception ' and others issued before the patent in suit on
applications antedating his date of invention and pending
when his application was filed.'
Some of these were for transmission systems and some
for receiving systems. Several disclosed automatic amplification control. All constituted prior art.' Hazeltine attempted to distinguish them from the Wheeler patent in
three respects. It contended that Wheeler's patent was
limited to the receiving art and that prior inventions addressed to automatic amplification control in transmission
did not constitute anticipation. The District Court
answered that Wheeler's patent was not limited but was
for any modulated wave carrier signalling system. Hazeltine also insisted that some of tht prior art dealt with
amplification control in amplifiers beyond the detector
rather than in those through which the controlled current
passed before it reached the detector, as in Wheeler. The
District Court was unable to find any such distinction
from the prior art in the Wheeler claims. Finally, Hazeltine urged that the time constant device was not found in
the prior art cited. The District Court held that, if any
of these alleged differences constituted invention on
Wheeler's part the claims did not disclose them, and that
to sustain Hazeltine's contention would be to rewrite the
claims.
'Wheeler's date of conception of his invention, according to his
testimony, was December 17, 1925.
'Affel, 1,574,780, March 2, 1926; Heising, 1,687,245, October 9,
1928; Bjornson, 1,666,676, April 17, 1928, and Schelleng, 1,836,556,
December 15, 1931. Friis, 1,675,848, July 3, 1928, and Evans,
1,736,852, November 26, 1929, were also cited but not discussed in
the opinion. It was stipulated that the disclosures and claims of
these patents did not differ materially from those embodied in the
applications therefor.
"Alexander Milburn Co. v. Davis-Bournonville Co., 270 U. S. 390.

OCTOBER TERM. 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

The Circuit Court of Appeals took a more liberal view
of the Wheeler patent as evidenced by the claims in connection with the specifications. It assumed, for the purposes of decision, that Wheeler's patent was limited to
receivers. It recognized the difference between the feed
of the negative potential back to the radio frequency
amplifiers instead of forward but it found no invention in
the change. It held there was no invention in the provision of a time constant. That court, therefore, found
that all Wheeler did was to take certain obvious steps in
an already crowded art, which steps were based upon various disclosures of that art, and that the changes he made
did not amount to invention. Both the District Court
and the Circuit Court of Appeals found that the mention
of a diode detector in Claim 10 represented no new inventive element since at least one of the patents in the prior
art-that of Heising-disclosed the use of such a tube
in an automatic amplification control system.
Confronted with these holdings, Hazeltine, as has been
stated, rewrote the specifications and claims in its application for reissue. It eliminated all reference to the use
of a triode detector in its drawings and specifications
and limited them to a system employing a diode. Certain of the claims of the old patent, however, were
retained which make no distinction between a diode and
a triode since they refer merely to a detector. Hazeltine
also altered the specifications to refer particularly to a
diode and a high resistance. Such a high resistance had
been claimed as part of the invention in Claim 11 of the
original patent, which claim, was not in suit in the
Abrams case. This fact is significant for, if the high
resistance had been considered novel or essential to the
invention, it is hard to see why suit was not founded on
Claim 11, the only claim which disclosed it.
It is evident that Hazeltine found it necessary to
abandon its broad claims to a monopoly of automatic

DETROLA CORP. v. HAZELTINE CORP. 267
259

Opinion of the Court.

volume control circuits and to limit the claims to an
alleged improvement in such circuits. The petitioner
insists that the effort is unavailing for the reason that
the patent, as defined in the reissue, fails to disclose
invention in view of the prior art.
As is admitted, automatic amplification control was
old in the art when Wheeler made his alleged invention.
The invention must then consist in the conception of
improved means for obtaining such control. The courts
below have found invention in the combination in a
radio receiver of a diode detector with a high resistance
connected between the anode of the detector and the
cathode of the amplifying tube and a direct 'connection
between the anode and the grid of the amplifier for
impressing negative potential upon the latter, thus
obtaining from the signal voltage a so-called linear response to the variations in the amplitude of the signal
current. This combination, they held, was such an
advance in the art as to constitute invention. We think
the decision below conflicts with that in the Abrams case
and fails to give due weight to the disclosures of the
prior art.
The Circuit Court of Appeals distinguishes from
Wheeler's conception automatic amplification control
used in receivers, such control used in transmitters, such
control used for other purposes than volume control of
audio waves, or accomplished by the use of a triode or
by means other than those which employ the signal
current itself and also sets apart amplification control
which does not produce a linear response.
There can be no question that the patents cited as
prior art disclose the accomplishment of linear response.
The curve exhibited in Wheeler's drawings to illustrate
the result of the use of his system is duplicated in similar
curves by Affel and Friis. It cannot be claimed, therefore, that Wheeler has accomplished a new result. At
most he can have obtained an old result by new means.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

The prior art discloses that automatic amplification
control is useful both in receiving and transmitting devices for the accomplishment of various ends, including
volume control. We agree with the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit that the limitation of
Wheeler's claims to receivers of radio signals would not
spell invention.
The respondent insists, and the courts below held, that
the reissue patent is limited to claiming a diode detector
and a high resistance connected between the detector
anode and the amplifier cathode and a direct connection
of anode with cathode. Passing the fact that Claims 2,
3, and 6 in suit embrace any sort of detector without
limitation, and assuming that the reissue is limited as
suggested, it remains that practically all of the patents
cited from the prior art employ a resistance to impress the
required potential on the amplifier grid for controlling
amplification and that two of them, those of Heising and
Slepian, disclose the use of a resistance in connection with
a diode.
The court below distinguishes Heising on the ground
that his purpose was not to control the volume of audio
waves but rather to use less current in the radio frequency amplifiers of a transmitter. We hold, as did the
Circuit Court of Appeals of the Second Circuit, that
these distinctions do not negative anticipation by'
Heising. With respect to Slepian, the court below remarks that his device was intended to accomplish a
different end. This is true for his object was to provide
a receiving system which would admit of an extremely
high amplification of received signal impulses. But the
use of automatic amplification control, whatever the end
in view, is the critical consideration.
The court below states that neither Heising nor Slepian
succeeded in producing automatic amplification control.
In this the court overlooked the uncontradicted testimony

DETROLA CORP. v. HAZELTINE CORP.
259

269

Opinion of the Court.

of the respondent's expert, Dr. Hazeltine, who flatly testified that each of them does produce it. And Heising produces it from the signal current by the use of a diode
detector, a "high resistance" inserted between the anode
thereof and the cathode of the amplifier and a direct current connection from the detector anode to the amplifier
cathode.
We think the court below was in error in stating that all
the workers in the prior art obtained their control potential
from an additional battery whereas Wheeler obtained it
from signal energy. This is not true of Heising or
Slepian.
Nor can Wheeler claim novelty, as the court held, in
the production of a linear response. While Friis obtained
energy for the production of potential from a battery, he
discloses a resulting linear response comparable to that
claimed by Wheeler. If, as is now asserted, the insertion of
a high resistance between the anode of the detector and
the cathode of the amplifier is an integral part of Wheeler's
conception, it may be noted that a resistance to develop a
potential to be carried to the amplifier grid is disclosed by
prior inventors, including Heising, Friis, Slepian, Affel
and Evans and several of them describe it as Wheeler
does, namely, a "high resistance."
We conclude that Wheeler accomplished an old result by
a combination of means which, singly or in similar combination, were disclosed by the prior art and that, notwithstanding the fact he was ignorant of the pending applications which antedated his claimed date of invention
and eventuated into patents, he was not in fact the first
inventor, since his advance over the prior art, if any,
required only the exercise of the skill of the art.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

