NYE v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

28

Congress intended to allow petitioner to reduce ordinary
income actually received and reported by the amount of
income he failed to realize. See Warren Service Corp. v.
Commissioner, supra; Josey v. Commissioner, 104 F. 2d
453; Tiscornia v. Commissioner, 95 F. 2d 678; FarrellyWalsh, Inc., v. Commissioner, 13 B. T. A. 923; Goerke Co.
v. Commissioner, 7 B. T. A. 860; Merckens v. Commissioner, 7 B. T. A. 32. Compare, United States v. Safety
Car Heating Co., supra; Voliva v. Commissioner, 36 F.
2d 212; Appeal of Denholm & McKay Co., 2 B. T. A. 444.
We may assume that petitioner was injured insofar as the
cancellation of the lease affected the value of the realty.
But that would become a deductible loss only when its
extent had been fixed by a closed transaction. Regulations No. 77, Art. 171, p. 46; United States v. White
Dental Mfg. Co., 274 U. S. 398.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

NYE

ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 558.

Argued March 12, 1941.-Decided April 14, 1941.

1. Seeking to terminate a suit for wrongful death which an administrator had brought in a federal district court, petitioners
(strangers to the suit) induced the administrator, by undue in-

fluence, to file a final account and obtain his discharge as administrator, and to send letters to his attorney and the district
judge asking dismissal of the suit. The misbehavior occurred
more than 100 miles from the district court. Petitioners were
adjudged guilty of contempt by the district judge; ope was ordered
to pay the costs of the contempt proceeding, including a sum to
the administrator's attorney; and on both, fines were imposed.
A notice of appeal was filed. Held:
326252 -41-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

313 U. S.

(1) The case was not one of civil but of criminal contempt.
P. 42.
(a) A contempt is considered civil "when the punishment is
wholly remedial, serves only the purposes of the complainant, and
is not intended as a deterrent to offenses against the public."
P. 42.
(b) That the contempt proceeding was entitled in the administrator's suit, and that the United States was not a party until the
appeal, are not conclusive as to the nature of the contempt. P. 42.
(c) Nor is the fact that one of the petitioners was ordered to
pay the costs of the proceeding, including a sum to the administrator's attorney, decisive. P. 42.
(d) The punitive character of the judgment of contempt was
dominant. P. 43.
(2) The appeal is not governed by the Criminal Appeals Rules.
P. 43.
(a) In this case there was no "plea of guilty," no "verdict of
guilt by a jury," and no "finding of guilt by the trial court where
a jury is waived." The quoted qualifying language of the Rules
does not designate merely the stage of the proceedings in criminal cases when the Rules become applicable, but describes the
kinds of cases to which they are to be applied. P. 43.
(b) In the light of the history of the Act authorizing the Rules,
and the amendatory Act, the categories embraced in the Rules
may not be expanded by interpretation to include the present
case. P. 44.
(3) The appeal is governed by § 8 (c) of the Act of February
13, 1925. P. 44.
(4) This Court being equally divided in opinion as to whether
the Circuit Court of Appeals had power, in the absence of an
application for allowance of the appeal, to decide the case on the
merits, the action of that court in taking jurisdiction of the
appeal is affirmed. P. 44.
(5) The conduct of petitioners did not constitute "misbehavior
. ..so near" the presence of the court "as to obstruct the administration of justice" within the meaning of § 268 of the Judicial
Code. P. 52.
So far as the crime of contempt is concerned, the fact that the
district judge received the administrator's letter is inconsequential.
2. The words "so near thereto" in § 268 of the Judicial Code are to
be construed as having a geographical, rather than a causal,
connotation. P. 48.

NYE v. UNITED STATES.
33

Argument for Petitioners.

3. The phrase "so near thereto as to obstruct the administration of justice" likewise connotes that the misbehavior must have occurred in
the vicinity of the court. P. 48.
4. The history of §§ 1 and 2 of the Act of March 2, 1831, and of
§ 135 of the Criminal Code, requires meticulous regard for the
separate categories of offenses therein embraced, so that the instances where there is no right to jury trial will be narrowly
restricted. P. 49.
5. The phrase "so near thereto" must be Testricted to acts in the
vicinity of the court and not be construed to apply to all acts
which have a "reasonable tendency" to "obstruct the administration of justice." P. 49.
6. Toledo Newspaper Co. v. United States, 247 U. S. 402, overruled.
P. 52.
113 F. 2d 1006, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 311 U. S. 643, to review the affirmance of
an order upon an adjudication of contempt.

Mr. Lycurgus R. Varser, with whon Messrs. J. Bayard
Clark and 0. L. Henry were on the brief, for petitioners.
The court had no personal knowledge of the matters
shown in the evidence. Therefore, it was necessary that
the facts be set forth in an affidavit before the court in
order to give the court jurisdiction to issue the order to
show cause. In re Deaton, 105 N. C. 59, 64; Sona v. Aluminum Castings Co., 214 F. 326. The testimony of Elmore
was given on the defendants' motion to dismiss the suit for
wrongful death, and not for the purpose of initiating a
contempt proceeding.
The conduct alleged against the petitioners can not be
construed as an affront to, or interference with, the court
and its functions. Nothing was done in the presence of
the court.
The District Court proceeded as in civil contempt.
The caption in its findings of fact and judgment, in its
order to show cause, in the motion of plaintiff's counsel,
in the court minutes showing denial of motions and exceptions, and in the motions filed by the petitioners, is

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Petitioners.

313 U. S.

the caption of the suit for damages for wrongful death.
There was no order characterizing the charge as criminal
contempt; and the conduct charged took place, if at all,
so far from the District Court that it knew nothing about
it until the efforts of plaintiff's counsel, and the testimony
of Elmore on the motion to dismiss the main action,
brought it to the attention of the court.
The District Court proceeded for constructive civil
contempt under the "so near thereto" clause of § 268,
Jud. Code, when it did not have the power to.proceed for
civil contempt and did not have power to enter a judgment otherwise. Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co.,
221 U. S. 418, 448; In re Sixth & Wisconsin Tower, Inc.,
108 F. 2d 538, 540.
If the conduct of the petitioners was hostile to any
court, it was to the probate court. The District Court
could entertain the action for wrongful death only as
long as Elmore remained administrator of the estate,
and the effect on the District Court of a discharge in the
probate court could be only incidental.
If the affidavit and final account had been contemptuously procured by the petitioners and filed in the
probate court, the power to punish for such conduct would
have been in the probate court and not in the District
Court.
The court concluded that all that Nye did by procuring the writing of the letters to the court and to
plaintiff's counsel was for the purpose of preventing the
prosecution of the civil action on its merits. Though
the court says that this caused a long delay, several
hearings and expense, there is no finding that Elmore's
rights were prejudiced, or that the suit in the federal
court was discharged on account of the filing of the
final account in the probate court.
The judgment of non-suit rendered void the judgment of contempt.

NYE v. UNITED STATES.
33

Argument for the United States.

Mr. Herbert Wechsler, with whom Solicitor General
Biddle, Assistant Attorney General Berge, and Mr. Louis
B. Schwartz were on the brief, for the United States.
The contempt adjudicated and charged was unmistakably criminal and the proceeding was appropriate for
the purpose. For purposes of appeal, the nature of the
judgment is decisive of the criminal or civil character of
the contempt. The judgment imposed unconditional
fines payable to the United States. Apart from the nature of the sentence, the judgment specifically found the
petitioners guilty of misbehavior so near the presence of
the court as to obstruct the administration of justice.
This was unequivocal evidence that the purpose of the
fines and of the adjudication of contempt was to vindicate the authority of the court, not to perfect the remedies
of a private suitor.
The proceedings anterior to the judgment support the
same conclusion. The prayer of the motion for a rule
to show cause was not for remedial punishment in aid
of the main suit. It speaks the language of public justice not of private litigation. The acts charged were unmistakably criminal contempt, if contempt at all. They
did not violate a court order; they obstructed the work of
the court and attempted to deceive the judge. Moreover,
the respondents to the rule to show cause were not parties
to a pending action; they were strangers. And the
movant for the rule was not the plaintiff in the action,
but his attorney. While the proceedings were entitled in
the original action and the United States was not a party
until the appeal, neither circumstance is decisive of the
nature of the contempt. The defendants could not have
been uncertain that punishment rather than relief was
the object in view.
Since the contempt was criminal the jurisdictional objection must prevail. In any event, the proceedings were

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for the United States.

313 U. S.

adequate to support the imposition of a criminal penalty.
The findings of fact support the conclusion that the
petitioners were guilty of misbehavior so near the presence
of the court as to obstruct the administration of justice,
within the meaning of § 268 of the Judicial Code.
The petitioners' conduct was a deliberate attempt to
thwart the prosecution of an action by undue influence
exercised on the litigant and misrepresentations made to
the court. Such an attempt is a contempt when the
means consists of force or threats directed against a suitor;
and the type of influence exerted in the present case is
indistinguishable. Moreover, the conduct of the petitioners amounted to a misrepresentation. Falsehood
may have obstructive qualities which warrant a finding
of contempt.
The misbehavior was in the presence of the court or
"so near thereto as to obstruct the administration of
justice." The early view that the power of summary
punishment in cases of misbehavior is confined by the
statute to assuring order and decorum in court has been
abandoned. It is also clear that the language is not to
be "spatially construed." It is unnecessary to rely upon
the majority opinion in Toledo Newspaper Co. v. United
States, 247 U. S. 402; the present case falls fairly within
the dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice Holmes. A court
without plaintiffs can not do business as a court. While
the petitioners' efforts to eliminate Elmore as a plaintiff
ultimately failed, there was an actual obstruction of the
administration of justice. Moreover, the letter which
the petitioners had Elmore write to the judge was itself
contumacious.
The contention that the District Court was without
jurisdiction because the verification was filed a week
after the motion for an order to show cause is without
merit.

NYE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

33

The contention that the settlement of Elmore's action for wrongful death, pending this appeal, requires
the judgment of contempt to be set aside, rests upon
the unsound premise that the contempt was civil.
MR. JusTIcE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioners were adjudged guilty of contempt under
§ 268 of the Judicial Code (36 Stat. 1163, 28 U. S. C.
§385) for their efforts to obtain a dismissal of a suit
brought by one Elmore in the federal District Court for
the Middle District of North Carolina. Elmore, administrator of the estate of his son, brought that action, in
forma pauperis, against one Council and Bernard, partners, trading as B. C. Remedy Co., and alleged that his
son died as a result of the use of a medicine, known as B C
and manufactured and sold by them. The court appointed William B. Guthrie to represent Elmore. Defendants filed an answer April 29, 1939. On April 19,
1939, Elmore notified the District Judge and his lawyer
by letters that he desired to have the case dismissed.
The substance of the episode involving the improper
conduct of petitioners was found as follows:
Elmore is illiterate and feeble in mind and body. Petitioners,' through the use of liquor and persuasion, induced Elmore to seek a termination of the action. Nye
directed his own lawyer to prepare the letters to the District Judge and to Guthrie and to prepare a final administration account to be filed in the local probate court.
Nye took Elmore to the probate court, had him discharged as administrator, and paid the clerk a fee of $1.
' Nye's daughter was married to the son of Council, one of the
defendants in the Elmore action. Mayers (Meares) was Nye's tenant who was acquainted with Elmore.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

He then took Elmore to the postoffce, registered the letters and paid the postage. Elmore, however, was not
promised or paid anything. These events took place
more than 100 miles from Durham, North Carolina,
where the District Court was located.
On September 30, 1939, Guthrie filed a motion 2 asking
for an order requiring Nye to show cause "why he should
not be attached and held as for contempt of this Court."'
The court issued a show cause order to Nye and Mayers
who filed their answers. There was a hearing. Evidence was introduced and argument was heard on motions to dismiss. The court found that the writing of
the letters and the filing of the final account were pro'The court had deferred action on Elmore's inspired request for a
dismissal at the request of Guthrie and pending an investigation by
him. On July 20, 1939, Nye and Elmore's son were examined under
oath before the court as to the episode. On August 29, 1939, defendants moved to dismiss Elmore's action on the ground that he had been
discharged as administrator. A hearing was held on that motion and
Elmore testified respecting his discharge. The evidence so adduced
was the basis of the motion for an order to show cause on September
30, 1939.
'The motion for an order to show cause also prayed: "2. That the
Court call to the attention of the United States District Attorney for
this district the entire record in this cause with request to the said
United States District Attorney to investigate the question as to
whether or not a conspiracy was entered into by and between R. H.
Nye, W. E. Timberlake and L. C. Mayers, all of Robeson County,
North Carolina, to defeat the administration of justice and the orderly
process of this Court and further as to whether or not they have
been guilty of subornation of perjury and further vzhether they
conspired to practice a fraud and did practice a fraud upon this
Court. 3. That this matter through the office of the United States
District Attorney for this district be submitted and inquired into by
the Grand Jury for such action and attention the Grand Jury shall
deem proper. 4. For such other and further procedure as to this
Court may seem proper."

NYE v. UNITED STATES.
33

Opinion of the Court.

cured by Nye "for the express and definite purpose of
preventing the prosecution of the civil action in the federal court and with intent to obstruct and to prevent the
trial of the case on its merits"; and that the conduct of
Nye and Mayers "did obstruct and impede the due administration of justice in this cause; that the conduct has
caused a long delay, several hearings and enormous expense." It accordingly held that their conduct was
"misbehavior so near to the presence of the court as to
obstruct the administration of justice" and adjudged each
guilty of contempt. It ordered Nye to pay the costs of
the contempt proceedings, including $500 to Guthrie,
and a fine of $500; and it ordered Mayers to pay a fine of
$250. The District Court filed its finding of facts and
judgment on February 8, 1940. On March 15, 1940,
petitioners filed a notice of appeal from the judgment."
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed that judgment.'
113,F. 2d 1006. We granted the petition for certiorari
because the interpretation of the power of the federal
courts under § 268 of the Judicial Code to punish contempts raised matters of grave importance.
We are met at the threshold with a question as to the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of Appeals over the appeal. The government concedes that if this was a case
of civil contempt, the notice of appeal was effective under
Rule 73 of the Rules of Civil Procedure. It argues, however, that the contempt was criminal-in which case the
appeal was not timely if the Criminal Appeals Rules
'On March 13, 1940, Elmore, with the assent of Guthrie, submitted
to a judgment of voluntary non-suit in the action for wrongful death
upon payment of a "substantial sum."
"The United States was made a party when the case was docketed
in the Circuit Court of Appeals. It entered its appearance but its
attorneys apparently took no further part in the proceedings in that
court.

42

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

govern, 6 and not made in the proper form if § 8(c) of
the Act of February 13, 1925 (43 Stat. 936, 940, 45 Stat.
54, 28 U. S. C. § 230) is applicable.7
We do not think this was a case of civil contempt.
We recently stated in McCrone v. United States, 307
U. S. 61, 64, "While particular acts do not always readily
lend themselves to classification as civil or criminal contempts, a contempt is considered civil when the punishment is wholly remedial, serves only the purposes of
the complainant, and is not intended as a deterrent to
offenses against the public." The facts of this case do
not meet that standard. While the proceedings in the
District Court were entitled in Elmore's action and the
United States was not a party until the appeal, those
circumstances though relevant (Gompers v. Bucks Stove
& Range Co., 221 U. S.418, 445-446) are not conclusive
as to the nature of the contempt. The fact that Nye
was ordered to pay the costs of the proceeding, including $500 to Guthrie, is also not decisive. As Mr. Justice Brandeis stated in Union Tool Co. v. Wilson, 259
U. S. 107, 110, "Where a fine is imposed partly as compensation to the complainant and partly as punishment,
the criminal feature of the order is dominant and fixes
"Promulgated May 7, 1934. Rule III provides that an appeal
shall be taken within five days after entry of judgment of conviction

or of an order denying a motion for new trial. In the present case,
the notice of appeal was filed more than a month after the judgment
of the District Court. In case the Criminal Appeals Rules govern,
the government also points out that Rule XI requires that petitions
for certiorari to review a judgment of the appellate court shall be
made within thirty days after the entry of judgment of that court.
In the present case the petition for a writ of certiorari was filed about
two months after the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
"No appeal intended to bring any judgment or decree before a

circuit court of appeals for review shall be allowed unless application
therefor be duly made within three months after the entry of such
judgment or decree."

NYE v. UNITED STATES.
33

Opinion of the Court.

its character for purposes of review." The order imposes unconditional fines payable to the United States.
It awards no relief to a private suitor. The prayer for
relief 8 and the acts charged 1 carry the criminal hallmark.
Cf. Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., supra, p. 449.
They clearly do not reveal any purpose to punish for
contempt "in aid of the adjudication sought in the principal suit." Lamb v. Cramer,285 U. S.217, 220. When
there is added the "significant" fact (Bessette v. W. B.
Conkey Co., 194 U. S. 324, 329) that Nye and Mayers
were strangers, not parties, to Elmore's action, there can
be no reasonable doubt that the punitive character of
the order was dominant.
We come then to the question of the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court of Appeals. We disagree with the government in its contention that the appeal in this case
was governed by the Criminal Appeals Rules. Those
rules were promulgated pursuant to the provisions of the
Act of March 8, 1934 (48 Stat. 399; 28 U. S. C. § 723a)
which provided, inter alia, that this Court should have
"the power to prescribe, from time to time, rules of practice and procedure with respect to any or all proceedings
after verdict, or finding of guilt by the court if a jury
has been waived, or plea of guilty, in criminal cases."
The rules were adopted "as the Rules of Practice and
Procedure in all proceedings after plea of guilty, verdict
of guilt by a jury or finding of guilt by the trial court
where a jury is waived, in criminal cases." 292 U. S.
661. In this case there was no plea of guilty, there was
8Supra, note 3.
9 On October 30, 1939, the District Court denied motions to dismiss the rule to show cause saying that "the question to be determined is whether the respondents, or either of them, is guilty of
misbehavior in the presence of the Court, or so near thereto to obstruct the administration of justice in this Court, and that is a matter of fact to be determined by the evidence and not on motion."

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

no verdict of guilt by a jury, and there was no finding
of guilt by the court where a jury was waived. To be
sure, the rules and the Act are applicable "in criminal
cases." But we do not agree with the government that
the qualifying language of the rules designates merely the
stage of the proceedings "in criminal cases" when the
rules become applicable. It is our view that the rules
describe the kinds of cases to which they are to be applied. The Act of March 8, 1934 amended the Act of
February 24, 1933 (47 Stat. 904) which gave this Court
rule-making power "with respect to any or all proceedings after verdict in criminal cases." The legislative history makes it abundantly clear that the amendment in
1934, so far as material here, was made because "it would
not seem to be desirable that there should be different
times and manner of procedure in cases of appeal where
there is a verdict of a jury as distinguished from cases
in which there is a finding of guilt by the court on the
waiver of a jury." H. Rep. No. 858, 73d Cong., 2d Sess.,
p. 1; S. Rep. No. 257, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., p. 1. In light
of this history and the language of the order promulgating the rules we conclude that the categories of cases
embraced in the rules cannot be expanded by interpretation to include this type of case.
That conclusion means that this appeal was governed
by § 8 (c) of the Act of February 13, 1925. The Court
is equally divided in opinion as to whether the Circuit
Court of Appeals, in absence of an application for allowance of the appeal, had the power to decide the case on
the merits. Hence the action of that court in taking
jurisdiction over the appeal is affirmed.
We come then to the merits.
The question is whether the conduct of petitioners constituted "misbehavior . . . so near" the presence of the
court "as to obstruct the administration of justice" within

NYE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

33

the meaning of § 268 of the Judicial Code."0 That section derives from the Act of March 2, 1831 (4 Stat. 487).
The Act of 1789 (1 Stat. 73, 83) provided that courts of
the United States "shall have power . . . to punish by
fine or imprisonment, at the discretion of said courts, all
contempts of authority in any cause or hearing before the
same." Abuses arose,11 culminating in impeachment proceedings against James H. Peck, a federal district judge,
who had imprisoned and disbarred one Lawless for publishing a criticism of one of his opinions in a case which
was on appeal. Judge Peck was acquitted. 2 But the
history of that episode makes abundantly clear that it
served as the occasion for a drastic delimitation by Congress of the broad undefined power of the inferior federal
courts under the Act of 1789.
The day after Judge Peck's acquittal Congress took
steps to change the Act of 1789. The House directed its
Committee on the Judiciary "to inquire into the expediency of defining by statute all offences which may be
punished as contempts of the courts of the United States,
and also to limit the punishment for the same." 13 Nine
This section provides: "The said courts shall have power to impose and administer all necessary oaths, and to punish, by fine or
imprisonment, at the discretion of the court, contempts of their authority: Provided, That such power to punish contempts shall not be
construed to extend to any cases except the misbehavior of any
person in their presence, or so near thereto as to obstruct the administration of justice, the misbehavior of any of the officers of said
courts in their official transactions, and the disobedience or resistance by any such officer, or by any party, juror, witness, or other
person to any lawful writ, process, order, rule, decree, or command of
the said courts."
" See Nelles & King, Contempt by Publication in the United
States, 28 Col. L. Rev. 401, 409 et seq.
12 Stansbury, Report of the Trial of James H. Peck (1833).
13 7 Cong. Deb., 21st Cong., 2d Sess., Feb. 1, 1831, Cols. 560-561.
And see House Journal, 21st Cong., 2d Sess., p. 245.
10

46

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

days later James Buchanan brought in a bill which became the Act of March 2, 1831. He had charge of the
prosecution of Judge Peck and during the trial had told
the Senate: '" "I will venture to predict, that whatever
may be the decision of the Senate upon this impeachment, Judge Peck has been the last man in the United
States to exercise this power, and Mr. Lawless has been
its last victim." The Act of March 2, 1831, "declaratory
of the law concerning contempts of court," contained two
sections, the first of which provided:
"That the power of the several courts of the United
States to issue attachments and inflict summary punishments for contempts of court, shall not be construed to
extend to any cases except the misbehaviour of any person or persons in the presence of the said courts, or so
near thereto as to obstruct the administration of justice,
the misbehaviour of any of the officers of the said courts
in their official transactions, and the disobedience or resistance by any officer of the said courts, party, juror,
witness, or any other person or persons, to any lawful
writ, process, order, rule, decree, or command of the
said courts."
Sec. 2 of that Act, from which § 135 of the Criminal
Code" (35 Stat. 1113, 18 U. S. C. § 241) derives,
provided:
"That if any person or persons shall, corruptly, or by
threats or force, endeavour to influence, intimidate, or
impede any juror, witness, or officer, in any court of the
14Stansbury, op. cit. p. 430.
15That section presently provides: "Whoever corruptly, or by
threats or force, or by any threatening letter or communication,
shall endeavor to influence, intimidate, or impede any witness, in any
court of the United States or before any United States commissioner
or officer acting as such commissioner, or any grand or petit juror,
or officer in or of any court of the United States, or officer who may
be serving at any examination or other proceeding before any United

NYE v. UNITED STATES.
33

Opinion of the Court.

United States, in the discharge of his duty, or shall, corruptly, or by threats or force, obstruct, or impede, or
endeavour to obstruct or impede, the due administration
of justice therein, every person or persons, so offending,
shall be liable to prosecution therefor, by indictment, and
shall, on conviction thereof, be punished, by fine not exceeding five hundred dollars, or by imprisonment, not
exceeding three months, or both, according to the nature
and aggravation of the offence."
In 1918 this Court in Toledo Newspaper Co. v. United
States, 247 U. S. 402, 418, 419, stated that "there can be
no doubt" that the first section of the Act of March 2,
1831 "conferred no power not already granted and imposed no limitations not already existing"; and that it
was "intended to prevent the danger by reminiscence
of what had gone before, of attempts to exercise a power
not possessed which . . . had been sometimes done in
the exercise of legislative power." The inaccuracy of
that historic observation has been plainly demonstrated.
Frankfurter & Landis, Power of Congress Over Procedure
in Criminal Contempts in "Inferior" Federal Courts-A
Study in Separation of Powers, 37 Harv. L. Rev. 1010.
Congress was responding to grievances arising out of the
exercise of judicial power as dramatized by the Peck impeachment proceedings. Congress was intent on curtailing that power. The two sections of the Act of
March 2, 1831 when read together, as they must be,
clearly indicate that the category of criminal cases which
could be tried without a jury was narrowly confined.
That the previously undefined power of the courts was
States commissioner or officer acting as such commissioner, in the
discharge of his duty, or who corruptly or by threats or force, or by
any threatening letter or communication, shall influence, obstruct, or
impede, or endeavor to influence, obstruct, or impede, the due administration of justice therein, shall be fined not more than one
thousand dollars, or imprisoned not more than one year, or both."

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

substantially curtailed by that Act was early recognized
by lower federal courts. United States v. Holmes, Fed.
Cas. No. 15,383, at p. 363; Ex parte Poulson, Fed. Cas.
No. 11,350; United States v. New Bedford Bridge, Fed.
Cas. No. 15,867, at p. 104; United States v. Seeley, Fed.
Cas. No. 16,248a; United States v. Emerson, 4 Cranch
(C. C.) 188; Fed. Cas. No. 15,050; Kent's Commentaries
(3rd ed. 1836) pp. 300-301. And when the Act came
before this Court in Ex parte Robinson, 19 Wall. 505, 511,
Mr. Justice Field, speaking for the Court, acknowledged
that it had limited the power of those courts. And see
Ex parte Bradley, 7 Wall. 364, 374. So far as the decisions of this Court are concerned, that view persisted
to the time when Toledo Newspaper Co. v. United States,
supra, was decided. See Ex parte Wall, 107 U. S. 265;
Savin, Petitioner,131 U. S. 267, 276; Cuddy, Petitioner,
131 U. S. 280, 285; Eilenbecker v. District Court, 134
U. S. 31, 38.
Mindful of that history, we come to the construction of
§ 268 of the Judicial Code in light of the specific facts of
this case. The question is whether the words "so near
thereto" have a geographical or a causal connotation.
Read in their context and in the light of their ordinary
meaning, we conclude that they are to be construed as
geographical terms. In Ex parte Robinson, supra, at p.
511, it was said that as a result of those provisions the
power to punish for contempts "can only be exercised to
insure order and decorum" in court. "Misbehavior of
any person in their presence" plainly falls in that category. Ex parte Terry, 128 U. S. 289. And in Savin,
Petitioner, supra, it was also held to include attempted
bribes of a witness, one in the jury room and within a
few feet of the court room and one in the hallway immediately adjoining the court room. See Cooke v. United
States, 267 U. S. 517. The phrase "so near thereto as
to obstruct the administration of justice" likewise con-

NYE v. UNITED STATES.
33

Opinion of the Court.

notes that the misbehavior must be in the vicinity of the
court. Nelles & King, Contempt by Publication in the
United States, 28 Col. L.' Rev. 525, 530. It is not sufficient that the misbehavior charged has some direct relation to the work of the court. "Near" in this context,
juxtaposed to "presence," suggests physical proximity not
.relevancy. In fact, if the words "so near thereto" are
not read in the geographical sense, they come close, as
the government admits, to being surplusage. There may,
of course, be many types of "misbehavior". which will
"obstruct the administration of justice" but which may
not be "in" or "near" to the "presence" of the court.
Broad categories of such acts, however, were expressly
recognized in § 2 of the Act of March 2, 1831 and subsequently in § 135 of the Criminal Code. It has been held
that an act of misbehavior though covered by the latter
provisions may also be a contempt if committed in the
"presence" of the Court. Savin, Petitioner,supra. And
see Sinclair v. United States, 279 U. S. 749. Yet in view
of the history of those provisions, meticulous regard for
those separate categories of offenses must be had, so that
the instances where there is no right to jury trial will be
narrowly restricted. If "so near thereto" be given a
causal meaning, then § 268 by the process of judicial
construction will have regained much of the generality
which Congress in 1831 emphatically intended to remove.
See Thomas, Problems of Contempt of Court (1934) c.
VII. If that phrase be not restricted to acts in the
vicinity of the court but be allowed to embrace acts which
have a "reasonable tendency" to "obstruct the administration of justice" (Toledo Newspaper Co. v. United
States, supra, p. 421) then the conditions which Congress
sought to alleviate in 1831 have largely been restored.
See Fox, The History of Contempt of Court (1927) c. IX.
The result will be that the offenses which Congress designated as true crimes under § 2 of the Act of March 2,
326252 o41-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

1831 will be absorbed as contempts wherever they may
take place. We cannot by the process of interpretation
obliterate the distinctions which Congress drew.
We are dealing here only with a problem of statutory
construction, not with a. question as to the constitutionally permissible scope of the contempt power. But
that is no reason why we should adhere to the construction adopted by Toledo Newspaper Co. v. United States,
supra, and leave to Congress the task of delimiting the
statute as thus interpreted. Though the statute in question has been on the books for over a century, it has
not received during its long life the broad interpretation
which that decision gave it. Rather, that broad construction is relatively recent. So far as decisions of this'
Court are concerned, the statute did not receive any such'.
expanded interpretation until Toledo Newspaper Co. v*
United States, supra, was decided in 1918. The decisions of this Court prior to 1918 plainly recognized kas we]
have noted, that Congress through the Act of March 2,
1831 had imposed a limitation on the power topunish for
contempts-a view consistent with the holdings of the
lower federal courts during the years immediately fol2
lowing the enactment of the statute. The early view
was best expressed in Ex parte Poulson, supra, decided in
1835. In that case it was held that the Act of March 2,
1831 gave the court no power to punish a newspaper
publisher for contempt for publishing an "offensive"
article relative to a pending case. It was held that the
first section of the Act "alludes to that kind of misbehavior which is calculated to disturb the order of the
court, such as noise, tumultuous or disorderly behavior,
either in or so near to it as to prevent its proceeding in
the orderly dispatch of its business." p. 1208. That was
a plain recognition that the words "so near thereto"
connoted physical proximity. And prior to 1918 the decisions of this Court did not depart from that theory,

NYE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

33

however they may have expanded the earlier notions of
"misbehavior." To be sure, the lower federal courts in
the intervening years had expressed a contrariety of views
on the meaning of the statute 1 and some were giving it
an expanded scope 17 which was later approved in Toledo
Newspaper Co. v. United States, supra. But it is sig-

nificant that not until after the turn of this century did
the first line of fracture appear suggesting that the statute authorized summary punishment for publication.""
Thus the legislative history of this statute and its career
demonstrate that this case presents the question of correcting a plain misreading of language and history so as
to give full respect to the meaning which Congress unmistakably intended the statute to have. Its legislative
history, its interpretation prior to 1918, the character and
nature of the contempt proceedings, admonish us not to
'give renewed vitality to the doctrine of Toledo News-'
'paper Co. v. United States, supra, but to recognize the
substantial legislative limitations on the contempt power
which were occasioned by the Judge Peck episode. And
they necessitate an adherence to the original construction of the statute so that, unless its requirements are
clearly satisfied, an offense will be dealt with as the law
deals with the run of illegal acts. Cf. Mr. Justice Holmes
6

That "so near thereto" is a geographical term see Ex parte Schulenburg, 25 F. 211, 214 (1885); Hillmon v. Mutual Life Ins. Co., 79 F.
749 (1897); Morse v. Montana Ore-PurchasingCo., 105 F. 337, 347
(1900); Cuyler v. Atlantic & N. C. R. Co., 131 F. 95 (1904). And
see Nelles & King, op. cit., pp. 532, 539-542.
17 For cases expanding the concept of "presence" and "so near
thereto" see In re Brule, 71 F. 943 (1895); MeCaully v. United
States, 25 App. D. C. 404 (1905); United States v. Zavelo, 177 F.
536 (1910); Kirk v. United States, 192 F. 273 (1911); In re Independent Pub. Co., 228 F. 787 (1915).
18 Nelles & King, op. cit., p. 539 citing Ex parte McLeod, 120 F.
130 (1903) and United States v. Huff, 206 F. 700 (1913).

OCTOBER TIRM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

dissenting in Toledo Newspaper Co. v. United States,
supra, pp. 422 et seq.
The conduct of petitioners (if the facts found are taken
to be true) was highly reprehensible. It is of a kind
which corrupts the judicial process and impedes the administration of justice. But the fact that it is not reachable through the summary procedure of contempt does
not mean that such conduct can proceed with impunity.
Section 135 of the Criminal Code, a descendant of § 2 of
the Act of March 2, 1831, embraces a broad category of
offenses. And certainly'it cannot be denied that the conduct here in question comes far closer to the family of
offenses there described than it does to the more limited
classes of contempts described in § 268 of the Judicial
Code. The acts complained of took place miles from the
District Court. The evil influence which affected Elmore
was in no possible sense in the "presence" of the court or
"near thereto." So far as the crime of contempt is concerned, the fact that the judge received Elmore's letter is
inconsequential.
We may concede that there was an obstruction in the
administration of justice, as evidenced by the long delay
and large expense which the reprehensible conduct of petitioners entailed. And it would follow that under the
"reasonable tendency" rule of Toledo Newspaper Co. v.
United States, supra, the court below did not err in
affirming the judgment of conviction. But for the reasons stated that decision must be overruled. The fact
that in purpose and effect there was an obstruction in
the administration of justice did not bring the condemned conduct within the vicinity of the court in any
normal meaning of the term. It was not misbehavior
in the vicinity of the court disrupting to quiet and order
or actually interrupting the court in the conduct of its
business. Cf. Savin, Petitioner,supra, at p. 278. Hence,
it was not embraced within § 268 of the Judicial Code.

NYE v. UNITED STATES.
33

STONE,

53

J., dissenting.

If petitioners can be punished for their misconduct, it
must be under the Criminal Code where they will be
afforded the normal safeguards surrounding criminal
prosecutions. Accordingly, the judgment below is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE, dissenting:

The court below did not pass on the question, mooted
here, whether it acquired jurisdiction under the appeal
provisions of the applicable section, 8 (c), of the Jurisdictional Act of February 13, 1925. Only four members
of this Court are of opinion that it did. Assuming for
present purposes that it had jurisdiction to decide the
merits, I think its decision was right and that the judgment below should be affirmed.
We are concerned here only with the meaning and application of an act of Congress which has stood unamended on the statute books for one hundred and ten
years. It gives statutory recognition to the power of
the federal courts to punish summarily for contempt and
provides that that power "shall not be construed to extend to any cases except the misbehavior of any person
or persons in the presence of the said courts, or so near
thereto as to obstruct the administration of justice."
The issue is not whether this statute has curtailed an
authority which federal courts exercised before its enactment. Concededly it has. The only question before
us is whether it has so limited that authority as to preclude summary punishment of the contemptuous action
of petitioner which, it is not denied, is "misbehavior" although not in the presence of the court, and which, it is
admitted, seriously obstructed the administration of justice in a cause pending in the court. The question is
important, for if conduct such as this record discloses may
not be dealt with summarily the only recourse of a federal court for the protection of the integrity of proceed-

54

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

313 U. S.

ings pending before it, from acts of corruption and intimidation outside the court room, is to await the indictment
of the offenders, with or without adjournment of the
pending proceedings as the exigencies of the case may
require.
It is not denied that the distance of the present contemptuous action from the court in miles did not lessen
its injurious effect, and in that sense it was "near" enough
to obstruct the administration of justice. The opinion
of the Court supports its conclusion on the ground that
"near" means only geographical nearness and so implicitly holds that no contempt is summarily punishable unless it is either in the presence of the court or is some
kind of physical interference with or disturbance of its
good order, so that the nearness to the court of the contemptuous act has an effect in obstructing justice which
it would not have if it took place at a more distant
point. From all this it seems to follow that the surreptitious tampering with witnesses, jurors or parties in the
presence of the court, although unknown to it, would
be summarily punishable because in its presence, but that
if it took place outside the court room or while the witness, juror or party was on his way to attend court it
would not be punishable because geographical nearness is
not an element in making the contemptuous action an
obstruction to justice.
These contentions assume that "so near thereto" can
only refer to geographical position and they ignore the
entire history of the judicial interpretation of the statute.
"Near" may connote proximity in causal relationship
as well as proximity in space, and under this statute, as
the opinion seems to recognize, even the proximity to the
court, in space, of the contemptuous action, is of significance only in its causal relationship to the obstructions
to justice which result from disorder or public disturbances. This Court has hitherto, without a dissenting

NYE v. UNITED STATES.
33

STONE, J., dissenting.

voice, regarded the phrase "so near thereto" as connoting
and including those contempts which are the proximate
cause of actual obstruction to the administration of justice, whether because of their physical nearness to the
court or because of a chain of causation whose operation
in producing the obstruction depends on other than geographical relationships to the court. See Savin, Petitioner, 131 U. S. 267; Cuddy, Petitioner, 131 U. S. 280;
Toledo Newspaper Co. v. United States, 247 U. S. 402;
Sinclair v. United States, 279 U. S. 749, 764, 765; Craig
v. Hecht, 263 U. S. 255. Cf. McCann v. New York
Stock Exchange, 80 F. 2d 211, 213. Contempts which
obstruct justice because of their effect on the good order
and tranquillity of the court must be in the presence
of the court or geographically near enough to have that
effect. Contempts which are surreptitious obstructions
to justice, through tampering with witnesses, jurors and
the like, must be proximately related to the condemned
effect. We are pointed to no legislative history which
militates against such a construction of the statute.
In the Savin, the Craig, and the Sinclair cases, as well
as in the Toledo case, the contempts were of this latter
kind. The contempt held summarily punishable by this
Court in the Savin case, decided sixty years ago, was the
attempted bribery of a witness at a place in the court
house but outside the courtroom, without any disorder
or disturbance of the court. The contemptuous acts in
the other cases took place at points distant from the court
in the city where it sat. In all, the injurious effect on
the administration of justice was unrelated to the distance from the court. In holding that they were contempts within the summary jurisdiction of the court this
Court definitely decided that "so near thereto" is not confined to a spatial application where the evil effect of the
alleged contempt does not depend upon its physical nearness to the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
SwONE, J., dissenting.

313 U. S.

The Savin and Sinclair cases were decided by a unanimous court. The dissenting judges in the Toledo and
Craig cases, in which the acts held to be contemptuous
were the publication, at a distance from the court, of
comments derogatory to the judge, made no contention
that the phrase imposed a geographical limitation on the
power of the court. Their position was that the particular contemptuous acts charged did not in fact have the
effect of obstructing justice, a contention which cannot
be urged here. In the Toledo case, Justice Holmes said,
page 423: "I think that 'so near as to obstruct' means
so near as actually to obstruct-and not merely near
enough to threaten a possible obstruction." And in the
Craig case, after commenting on the fact that no cause
was pending before the court, he said, p. 281: "Suppose
the petitioner falsely and unjustly charged the judge with
having excluded him from knowledge of the facts, how
can it be pretended that the charge obstructed the administration of justice. . .

."

Complete agreement with

the dissents in these cases neither requires the Court's
decision here nor lends it any support.
I do not understand my brethren to maintain that the
secret bribery or intimidation of a witness in the court
room may not be summarily punished. Cf. Savin, supra;
Sinclair, supra. If so, it is only because of the effect of
the contemptuous act in obstructing justice, which is precisely the same if the bribery or intimidation took place
outside the court house. If it may be so punished I can
hardly believe that Congress, by use of the phrase "so
near thereto," intended to lay down a different rule if
the contemptuous acts took place across the corridor, the
street, in another block, or a mile away.
If the point were more doubtful than it seems to me,
I should still think that we should leave undisturbed a
construction of the statute so long applied and not
hitherto doubted in this Court. We recently declined to

UNITED STATES v. RESLER.
33

Syllabus.

consider the contention that the Sherman Act can never
apply to a labor union, because of long standing decisions of this Court to the contrary, a construction which
Congress had not seen fit to change. See Apex Hosiery
Co. v. Leader, 310 U. S. 469, 487, 488.
In view of our earlier decisions and of the serious consequences to the administration of justice if courts are
powerless to stop, summarily, obstructions like the present, I think the responsibility of departing from the long
accepted construction of this statute should be left to
the legislative branch of the Government, to which it
rightfully belongs.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS concur

in this opinion.
UNITED STATES v. RESLER, DOING BUSINESS AS

RESLER TRUCK LINE AND AS BRADY TRUCK
LINE.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 616. Argued March 14, 1941.-Decided April 14, 1941.
1. Section 212 (b) of the Motor Carrier Act of 1935, which subjects to the rules and regulations of the Interstate Commerce
Commission transfers of certificates and permits, applies to a
transfer of operating rights though not more than twenty motor
vehicles are involved, notwithstanding the provision of § 213 (e)
that "the provisions of this section requiring authority from the
Commission for consolidation, merger, purchase, lease, operating
contract, or acquisition of control shall not apply where the total
number of motor vehicles involved is not more than twenty." P. 59.
2. Under the Motor Carrier Act of 1935, the Interstate Commerce
Commission had authority to promulgate a rule making approval by the Commission prerequisite to an effective transfer
of operating rights. P. 59.
Reversed.

