CITY BANK CO. v. HELVERING.
117

Syllabus.

§ 192b, such peddlers would be the only vendors in Virginia to escape some form of taxation.
Peddlers at wholesale are not entitled to be licensed
and taxed on the same basis as other vendors, as respects
either form or amount. As we have repeatedly held,
the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment does not prevent a State from classifying businesses
for taxation or impose any iron rule of equality. 0 Some
occupations may be taxed though others are not. Some
may be taxed at one rate, others at a different rate.
Classification is not discrimination. It is enough that
those in the same class are treated with equality. That
is true here.
Affirmed.
CITY BANK FARMERS TRUST CO., TRUSTEE, v.
HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
ON WRITS OF CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.

Nos. 408 and 409.

Argued April 1, 1941.-Decided April 28, 1941.

The administration of a trust by a testamentary trustee whose duties

and activities are confined to holding and safeguarding a fund of
stocks and bonds, collecting income, making safe investments and
reinvestments, distributing income to beneficiaries, keeping accounts, preparing and filing income tax returns, etc., is not a
"carrying on business" within § 23 (a) of the Revenue Act of
1928. Hence the commissions allowed and paid the trustee are
not deductible under that section as expenses of carrying on a
business. In computing the taxable income the trust is subject
to the same rules as an individual, Revenue Act, 1928, §§ 161-162.
Higgins v. Commissioner, 312 U. S. 212, followed. P. 124.
112 F. 2d 457, affirmed.
'"State Board of Tax Commissioners v. Jackson, 283 U. S. 527, 537,
and cases cited.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Petitioner.
CERTIORARI,

313 U. S.

312 U. S. 672, to review a judgment affirm-

ing a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 39 B. T. A. 29.
Mr. Rollin Browne, with whom Messrs. John G. Jackson, Jr. and George Craven were on the brief, for petitioner.
The Commissioner's concession at the trial that certain items were deductible as business expenses in computing the net income of the trusts was an admission
that the administration of the trusts was a business.
That issue was thus removed from the case. The Commissioner should not have been permitted to repudiate
his concession.
By settled and uniform administrative practice, "ordinary and necessary" trustees' commissions have been
allowed as "business" expenses. While this administrative practice has been in effect, the statutory provision
allowing deductions for ordinary and necessary business
expenses has been reenacted twelve times. This indicates Congressional approval of the administrative practice and gives to it the force and effect of law.
The administrative practice is sound, and should be
approved. Higgins v. Commissioner, 312 U. S. 212, involving personal investment activities of an individual,
is distinguishable. Here, the trusts were separate legal
and taxable entities, and the trustee was administering
the trust estates for the benefit of others. Therefore, the
commissions of the trustee and the other expenses of administering the trusts can not possibly be regarded as
"personal" expenses.
The trusts were established for the investment and
reinvestment of a large sum and accumulating and reinvesting the income therefrom, thus building up an
ever-increasing fund. Investment activities of that
nature, when carried on by a corporation or a trust, have
often been held to constitute the conduct of business.

CITY BANK CO. v. HELVERING.
121

Opinion of the Court.

The disallowance of trustees' commissions as "business"
expenses would produce difficult complications, and
would result in only a slight increase in the public
revenues.
The commissions here in issue should not be disallowed
merely because they were computed on the basis of and
paid out of principal of the trust funds. Such commissions were paid for the trustee's care and management of
the trusts, and not for the mere act of receiving the principal. They differ in no respect from the commissions
paid on income, which the respondent conceded are allowable deductions. An item otherwise deductible in
computing net income taxable to a trust as an entity may
not be disallowed just because it is charged against principal instead of income of the trust.
Mr. Arnold Raum, with whom Assistant Attorney General Clark and Messrs. Newman A. Townsend, Sewall
Key, and Lee A. Jackson were on the brief, for respondent.
Mr. Weston Vernon, Jr. filed a brief on behalf of the
Committee of Banking Institutions on Taxation, as amicus curiae, in support of the petitioner.
MR. JUSTIcE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The ultimate question here involved is whether two
testamentary trusts of which petitioner is trustee were in
1931 "carrying on . . . business" within the meaning of
§ 23 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1928.
Pursuant to the will of Angier B. Duke, two trusts,
consisting of stocks and bonds worth approximately $7,600,000, were established in 1923 for the benefit of Duke's
two minor sons. Petitioner, as trustee, was charged with
the duty of applying a sufficient amount of the income of
each trust to the support and education of the beneficiary;

124

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

the surplus income was to be accumulated until the beneficiary's majority; and at that time all accumulated income was to be paid to the beneficiary, while the principal
was to be continued in trust for the benefit of the son
and his descendants. By 1931, the principal and accumulated income of the two trusts aggregated about $10,000,000. In that year the Surrogate Court of New York
County allowed trustees' commissions of about $77,000,
ordering that payment be made out of principal. In reporting trust income for 1931, the trustee did not claim
any deduction for these commissions. Later, in proceedings before the Board of Tax Appeals, the deduction was
claimed but denied. The ground of denial was that during the taxable year the trusts had not been "carrying on
any trade or business," the carrying on of such an activity
being a condition precedent to the allowance of the claimed
deduction under the controlling Revenue Act.' The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed.' Differing interpretations
as to the meaning and scope of "carrying on any trade or
business" prompted us to grant certiorari in this case, in
the case of Pyne v. United States, 92 Ct. Cls. 44; 35 F.
Supp. 81; post, p. 127, and in the case of Higgins v. Commissioner, 111 F. 2d 795, 312 U. S. 212.
In the Higgins case, 312 U. S. 212, we affirmed the judgment of the same Circuit Court of Appeals that rendered
the decision below. Higgins, an individual taxpayer
whose activities did not vary materially from the activi1 Revenue

Act of 1928, § § 23 (a), 161, 162, 45 Stat. 799, 838.

Cf.

George Vanderbilt Trust, 36 B. T. A. 967. Though petitioner urges
that the Commissioner, because of concessions made before the
Board of Tax Appeals, should be barred from asserting that the
trusts were not carrying on business, the judgment of the Board
rested on its finding that the trusts were not so engaged, and the
issue is properly before us.
' 112 F. 2d 457.

CITY BANK CO. v. HELVERING.
121

Opinion of the Court.

ties of the taxpaying trusts in the case at bar,3 was denied
the deduction which petitioner here seeks. And §§ 161162 of the Revenue Act of 1928 provide: "The taxes imposed by this title upon individuals shall apply to the
income of estates or of any kind of property held in trust.
. I. The net income of the estate or trust shall be computed in the same manner and on the same basis as in the
case of an individual. . . ." Since the trust is subject to
the same rules as the individual, and since the findings of
the Board of Tax Appeals in the Higgins case and in the
case at bar are substantially the same,4 the Higgins case
is controlling here, unless, as petitioner contends, disThe Board found in this case that the trustee's activities were
limited to reviewing the stocks and bonds in trust several times a
year; selling securities and reinvesting the proceeds in other stocks
and bonds; collecting interest and dividends on security; keeping
account books for the trusts and rendering statements to the interested parties; preparing and filing income tax returns; and distributing income to the beneficiaries. Summarizing, the Board of
Tax Appeals said, "The above facts demonstrate conclusively to us
that this is a case of passive investment and not of carrying on a
business, for not only is the trustee limited in its investments, but
it is cautioned in effect to be a safe investor rather than a participant in trade or business, and, plainly carrying out the testator's
injunctions, it conducts no business, because it has, as above seen,
no expenses of conducting business other than the collection of
coupons and mailing bonds, amounting to a few dollars, and an
even more negligible amount for transfer stamps or notary fees ...
Extensive authority need not be compiled to demonstrate that a
mere passive investor, collecting interest and clipping coupons, and
making a very few reinvestments, is not engaged in trade or
business."
"It is clear that the Board was justified in reaching the conclusion that the instant trusts were not "business trusts" but existed
merely to hold and conserve property and distribute the income
received. Compare Morrisey v. Commissioner, 296 U. S. 344, 356357; Von Baumbach v. Sargent Land Co., 242 U. S. 503, 515; Zonne
v. Minneapolis Syndicate, 220 U. S. 187.

126

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

313 U. S.

tinguishable by reason of administrative practice in
relation to trusts.
But we regard the Higgins decision as controlling despite petitioner's insistence that administrative practice
has long permitted deduction of trustees' commissions.
In view of the express Congressional command that the
same method and basis of computation must be applied
to trust income as to individual income, it is doubtful
whether any administrative practice, no matter how clear
or long existing, would warrant our applying one concept
of carrying on business in the case of an individual and
another concept in the case of a trust. This is particularly true here, where the statutory interpretation petitioner urges has never received support in any regulations promulgated by the Secretary of the Treasury.' And
not only is the result reached by the court below consistent with our decision in Higgins v. Commissioner, but,
as we said in the Higgins case, the conclusion of the Board
of Tax Appeals "is adequately supported by this record,
and rests upon a conception of carrying on business similar to that expressed by this Court for an antecedent section." 6 The judgment below is accordingly
Affirmed.
'Biddle v. Commissioner, 302 U. S. 573, 582; Helvering v. New
York Trust Co., 292 U. S. 455, 467-468.
The case referred to was Van Wart v. Commissioner, 295 U. S.
112, 115.

