Oct. 1876.]

WESTERN UNION TEL.

Co. v.

ROGERS.

665

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH CoimPANY v. ROGERS.
This court has no jurisdiction to review the judgment of a circuit court rendered
subsequently to May 1, 1876, unless the matter in dispute exceeds the sum or
value of $5,000, exclusive of costs. Interest on the judgment cannot enter into
the computation.

MOTION to dismiss a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Nebraska.
The judgment below was as follows It is considered and adjudged by the court that said plaintiff,
Jonathan Rogers, have and recover of and from said defendant,
the Western Union Telegraph Company, the sum of five thousand ($5,000) dollars and the costs of this suit, taxed at two
hundred twenty and % ($220.33) dollars, and that he have
execution therefor.
Mr. Montgomery Blair for the defendant in error, in support
of the motion, cited Walker v. United States, 4 Wall. 163.

Mr. G. P. Lowrey and Mr. JL Hubley Ashton, contra.
The question upon the present motion is, whether this is not
in fact and law a judgment for $5,220.33, and, therefore, .for an
amount greater than $5,000.
The costs are here ascertained, taxed, and liquidated at
$220.33; and this is part of the aggregate amount for which
judgment is rendered and execution awarded, and which, therefore, exceeds the jurisdictional amount of $5,000.
It is quite inconceivable that a writ of error would be dismissed in a case whefe the damages amounted to $5,000, or less,
and the costs as taxed, and included in the judgment, amounted
to, say, $10,000, or any other very large sum.
The principle applicable to the matter is, of course, not affected by the amount of the costs included in the judgment.
Here is a small record of eleven or twelve pages, and the plaintiff's costs have been taxed at $220.33; and if such a judgment
is not reviewable by this court under the act of 1875, it is not
very easy to see how a party will ever be able to obtain relief
against excessive and abusive costs in any case where the damages included in the judgment amount to $5,000, or a less sum.
There can be no taxation of costs, except under the act of
Feb. 26, 1853, which repealed absolutely all previous laws on

"566

WESTERN UNION TEL.

Co. v. ROGERS.

[Sup. Ct.

the subject, and regulates the amount recoverable as legal costs
of suit by the successful party. Lyell v. iM.iller, 6 McLean, 422;
The Liverpool Packet, 2 Sprague, 37.
Any taxation of costs in'violation of this actC(known as the
Fee Bill) is error, cognizable by this court.
The third section of the act of 1853 (now Rev. Stat., sect.
983) provides that the bills of fees of the clerk, marshal, and
attorney, &c., shall be taxed in conformity with the act, and
"shall be filed with the papers in the case."
Where the costs are taxed and liquidated prior to or at the
time of the entry of the judgment, and constitute a part of the
judgment as rendered, nd the whole judgment, including
the damages and .costs, is for a definite amount, greater than
$5,000, this court, we submit, has jurisdiction, under the act of
1875, although the damages recovered may be less than $5,000.
Very often costs are not actually taxed until after the judgment is rendered; and any general judgment for costs, without
fixing the amount, would be interpfeted to mean legal costs.
.Insuch a case, the judgment, to the extent of the costs, would
not be reviewable in this court.
The case of Walker v. United ;Ytates, 4 Wall. 163, cited by
defendant- in error, was a judgment for "the sum of $2,000,
with interest thereon," &c.; and the court held, that, in determining the jurisdictional sum, interest on the judgment could
not be considered, because interest on a judgment can only arise'
after rendition, while the jurisdictional amount, if determined
by the judgment, is fixed at rendition.
Here there is a definite judgment for $5,000+$220.33 for
costs; and for that aggregate amount ($5,220.83) execution is
awarded against the defendant, now plaintiff in error.
delivered the opinion of the
court.
Before the act of Feb. 16, 1875 (18 Stat. 316), increasing the
sum or valie of the matter in dispute, necessary to give this
court jurisdiction, from $2,000 to $5,000, after May 1, 1875, it
was held that w had no jurisdictiori in cases where the matter
in dispute -was $2,000, and no nore, and that in determining
the jurisdictional amount "neither interest on the judgment
MR. Cara=_

JUSTICE W AITE

Oct. 1876.]

COUNTY OF CALLAWAY v. FOSTER.

nor costs of suit can enter into the computation." Walker v.
United States, 4 Wall. 164; Knapp v. Banks, 2 How. 73. The
act of 1875 simply increases the jurisdictional amount. No other
change is made in the old law.

The judgment in this case was

rendered Mlay 8, 1875, for $5,000 and no more, except costs.
It followVs that, according to the practice established under the
old law, this writ must be
Dismissed.for want of jurisdiction.

COUNTY OF CALLAWAY V. FOSTER.
1. The powers of a railroad company, in Missouri, in existence prior to the adoption of the constitutional provision of 1865, prohibiting subscriptions to the
stock of any corporation by counties, cities, or towns, unless two-thirds of
the qualified electors thereof shall assent, are not affected by such provision,
but remain the same as if it had never been adopted.
2. The power conferred by the statute of Missouri of March 10, 1859, upon a
county in which may be any part of-the route of the Louisiana and Missouri River Railroad Company, to subscribe to the capital stock of that
company without submitting the question of such subscription to the vote
of the people, was not taken away by the amendatory act of March 24,
1868.
3. Every reasonable construction of the language of the act of March 10, 1859,
embraces the county of Callaway, and the road has been actually located
through it.
4. The subscription to the stock of the railroad company, having been actually
made by that county, under the authority of a legislative act, in January,
1868, was legal, and the circumstance that the bonds were issued at a later
date does not impair their validity.

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District cf Missouri.
A copy of the bonds and coupons in question, and a full statement of -the statutory provisions governing the case and of the
facts shown in the record, are set forth in the opinion of the
court.
Argued by Mr. William .. BEvrts for the plaintiff in error,
2.T. D. Stevenson for the defendant in error.
and by Ad&.
ERROR

delivered the opinion of the court.
This is one of the bond cases of -which so many have been
brought before this court .within the last few years. The county
.MA. JUSTICE HIUNT

