Oct. 1876.]

WISWALL ET AL. V. CAMPBELL ET AL.

347

interest. They had loaned their money without requiring any
other security than the obligation of the other party, except
that which might arise from the property coming to thbir hands.
To make this property a sufficient security, the contract required
of the plaintiffs that they should invest in the same property
twenty dollars of their own money to every eighty dollars
borrowed of defendants. The relinquishment of this right to
control the sale of the property was a good considerationfor the
commissions which they would have made if they had sold it.
While it was possible to make such a transaction a mere
cover for usury, it was at the same time possible that the contract was a fair one, in aid of defendants' business, - a business
in which they were actually and largely engaged, and in which
lending money was the mere incident and not the main pursuit.
It was, therefore, properly left to the jury to say whether,
under all the circumstances, it was or was not a usurious transaction, under instruction to which we can see no objection.
We do not think the express reservation of ten per cent
interest makes the contract usurious because the law of Maryland forbids more than six. The contract was quite as much
an Illinois contract, where ten per cent is lawful, as a Maryland
contract, and the former is the law of the forum. The ruling
of the court below was in accord with what this court had held
Judgment affirmed.
in Andrews v. Pond, 13 Pet. 65.

WISWALL ET AL.

V. CA-XPBELL ET AL.,

ASSIGNEES.

This court has no jurisdiction to review a judgment of the Circuit Court, rendered
in a proceeding upon an appeal from an order of the District Court, rejecting
the claim of a supposed creditor against the estate of a bankrupt.

to dismiss a writ of error to the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Northern District of Illinois.
.111r. Lawrence Proudfoot in support of the motion.
Mr. John H. Thompson in opposition thereto.
MOTION

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This writ of error brings here a record of the Circuit Court

WISWALL ET AL. V.

CAMPBELL ET AL.

[Stup. Ot.

for the Northern District of Illinois, in a proceeding upon an
appeal taken under sect. 4984, Rev. Stat., from an order of the
District Court rejecting a claim presented by a supposed creditor
against the estate of a bankrupt. A motion is now made to dismiss, upon the ground that judgments of the circuit courts in
such cases are not reviewable here upon error.
By sect. 691,tRev. Stat., "all final judgments of any circuit
court . . . in civil actions, brought there by original process,
or . . . removed there from any district court by appeal or

writ of error, where the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs,
exceeds the sum, or value of $2,000 [now $5,00.0], may be
re-examined, and reversed or affirmed in the Sup'reme Court
upon a writ of error."
If we have jurisdiction of this case, it is by virtue of this
statute.
The cases are numerous in which it has been decided that we
cannot review the action of the circuit courts in the exercise
of their supervisory jurisdiction under the bankrupt law.
organ v. Thornhill, 11 Wall. 74; Hall v. Allen, 12 id. 454;
Mead v. Thompson, 15 id. 638; Marshall v. Knox, 16 id.
555; Coit v. Bobinson, 19 id. 274; Stickney v. Wilt, 23
id. 150; Sandusky v. National Bank, id. - 293. The principle upon which these decisions rests is, that a proceeding in
bankruptcy, from its commencement to its close upon the final
settlement of the estate, is but one suit. The several motions
made and acts done in the bankrupt court in the progress of
the cause are not distinct suits at law or in equity, but parts
of one suit in bankruptcy, from which they cannot be separated.
As our jurisdiction extends only to a re-examination of final
judgments or decrees in suits at law or in equity, it follows
that we have no control over judgments and orders made by
the courts below in mere bankruptcy proceedings.
The circuit and district courts have concurrent jurisdiction
of "all suits at law or in equity brought by an assignee in
bankruptcy against any person claiming an adverse interest, or
by any such person against an assignee touching any property
or rights of the bankrupt transferable to or vested in such
assignee" (Rev. Stat. sect. 4979); but such suits, when prosecuted, are no part of the bankruptcy proceeding. They are in

Oct. 1876.]

WISWALL ET AL. V. CAMPBELL ET AL.

aid of such a proceeding, but, while progressing, are entirely
separate from and independent of it. They are used by the
bankrupt court to settle the rights of parties who are not subject to its jurisdiction in the suit in bankruptcy, and who,
therefore, cannot be affected by any judgment or decree that
may be made in that cause. Appeals and writs of error to
this court in such suits are allowed, and these are the appeals
and writs of error referred to in sect. 4989.
The question, then, to be determined in this case is, whether
proceedings by creditors to prove their demands against the
estate of a bankrupt are part of the suit in bankruptcy, or separate and independent suits at law or in equity.
To entitle a creditor to have his demand allowed, he must
verify it in the manner provided by sect. 5077, and, when so
verified, it must be delivered to the register having charge of
the case. Sect. 5079. If the proof is satisfactory to the
register, he is required to deliver it to the assignee, who must
examine and compare it with the books and accounts of the
bankrupt. It is the duty of the assignee, also, to register, in a
book to be kept by him for that purpose, the names of the
creditors who have proved their claims, in the order in which
the proof is received, stating the time of the receipt of the
proof, and the nature and amount of the debts. This book is
open to the inspection of all creditors. Sect. 5080. The court
may, on the application of the assignee, or of any creditor, or
of the bankrupt, or without any application, examine upon
oath the bankrupt or any person tendering or who has made
proof of a claim, and may summon any person capable of giving
evidence concerning such proof, or concerning the debt sought
to be proved, and shall reject all claims not duly proved, or
when the proof shows the claim to be founded in fraud, illegality, of" mistake. Sect. 5081. The court must allow all
debts duly proved, and cause a list thereof to be made and
certified to one of the registers. Sect. 5085.
So far, clearly a proceeding to prove a debt is part of the suit
in bankruptcy. It has none of the qualities of an independent
suit at law or in equity. By sect. 4980, any supposed creditor
whose claim is wholly or in part rejected, or an assignee who is
dissatisfied with the allowance of a claim, may appeal from the

WiSWALL ET AL. V.

CAMPBELL ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

decision of the District Court to the Circuit Court of the same
district. Such appeal (sect. 4982) must be entered at the
term of the Circuit Court which shall be held within the district next after the expiration of ten days from the time of
claiming the same, and, on entering it (sect. 4984), the supposed creditor must file in the clerk's office of the Circuit
Court "a statement in writing of his claim, setting forth the
same, substantially, as in a declaration for the same cause of
action at law, and the assignee shall plead or answer thereto in
the like manner, and like proceeding shall thereupon be had
in the pleadings, trial, and determination of the cause, as in
actions at law commenced and prosecuted in the usual manner
in the courts of the United States, except that no execution
shall be awarded against the assignee." The final judgment of
the Circuit Court rendered pon the appeal is, by sect. 4985,
made conclusive, and the list of debts must, if necessary, be'
altered to conform thereto. Even under the operation of these
provisions of the statute the proceeding originally commenced
as part of the bankruptcy suit is not, as we think, separated
from it, and converted into a suit at- law. The form of the
proceeding in the Appellate Court must coniform to that of a
suit at law; but that does not make the proceeding itself such
a suit, any more than a proceeding in the Circuit Court under
its supervisory jurisdiction is a suit in equity, because, by sect.
4986, it is provided that it shall be heard and determined "as
in a court of equity."
Congress, in enacting the bankrupt law, had apparently in
view, (1) the discharge, under some circumstances, of an honest
debtor from legal liability for debts he could not pay; and
(2) an early pro rata distribution, according to equity, of his
available assets among his several creditors. Prompt action is
everywhere required by law. In. Bailey v. Glover, 21 Wall.
346, we said, speaking through Mr. Justice Miller, that "it is
obviously one of the purposes of the bankrupt law that there
should be a speedy distribution of the bankrupt's assets. This
is only second in importance to securing equality of distribution. The act is filled with provisions for quick and summary
disposal of questions arising in the progress of the case, without
regard to usual modes of trial attended by some necessary

Oct. 1876.]

WISWALL ET AL. V. CAIPBELL ET AL.

85t

delay." The list of debts "entitled to share in the bankrupt's
property" (sect. 5091) is an important element in the settlement of the estate. Without it there can be no dividend.
Hence the necessity for as "quick and summary" a disposal of
the -questions arising under this part of the case as is consistent
with a ieasonable protection of the rights of the parties in
interest. Every person submitting himself to the jurisdiction
of the bankrupt court in the progress of the cause, for the
purpose of having his rights in the estate determined, makes
himself a party to the suit, and is bound by what is judicially
determined in the legitimate course of the proceeding. A
creditor who offers proof of his claim, and demands its allowance, subjects himself to t1e dominion of the court, and must
abide the consequences. His remedies for the purpose of this
proof are prescribed by the law. As has been seen, he must
first submit his case to the register. It is then examined by
the assignee, who must record it in a book open to the inspection of creditors. An opportunity is then given to parties in
interest to call upon the District Court to take further testimony, and pass upon the claim. That court must then decide,
and from its decision an appeal may be taken to the Circuit
Court, where further litigation may be had; but when that court
acts, all parties are concluded. The judgment of that tribunal
is final. From it no appeal lies. There is no more hardship
in this than in holding that the action of the Circuit Court,
under the supervisory jurisdiction provided for in sect. 4986,
is conclusive, and not subject to re-examination here.
This is in accordance with the views expressed by Mr. Justice Clifford, when he delivered the opinion of the court in
Morgan v. Tkornhill, 11 Wall. 65. As, however, the question
-was not then directly presented for adjudication, the same
learned justice subsequently saw fit, in Coit v. Robinson, 19
Wall. 284, to leave it open for further consideration. Now,
however, when the question is fairly presented, and after it has
been fixll argued-, we are clearly of the opinion that what was
thus said in Morgan v. Thornhill was correct, and that we have
no jurisdiction upon error in this class of cases.
-Dismissedfor want of jurisdition.

