FULLER ET AL. V. CLAFLIN ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

relying at all upon the report of the engineers, which was
before Congress, and which recommended, precisely what was
done, we can come to no other conclusion than that the defendants are aac'ng within the authority of the statutes, and that
the structure at the cross-tides intended to divert the water
from the northern channel into the southern is, in the judgment
of the law, no illegal obstruction. The plaintiff has, therefore,
made iro case sufficient to justify an injunction, even if the
State is in a position to ask for it.
But, in resting our judgment upon this ground, we are not
to be understood as admitting that a State, when suing in this
court for the prevention of a nuisance in a navigable river of
the United States, must not aver and show that it will sustain
some speci'al and peculiar injury therefrom, such as would
-enable a private person to maintain a similar action in another
court. Upon that subject we express no opinion. It is sufficient for the present case to hold, as we do, that the acts of the
defendants, of which South Carolina complains, are not unlawfuil, and consequently that there is no nuisance .against which
an injunction should be granted.
The special injunction heretofore ordered is dissolved, and
the
Bill dismissed.

FULLER BT AL. .v. CLAFL]W ET AL.
-1.An order striking out an answer, as it ends the cause, leaves the action undefended, and confers a right to immedite judgment, is subject to review in
the ap ellate court.
2. The court below having, on demurrer, held an knswer to be sufficient, directed
it to be made more specific and certain. The party thereupon filed an
answer, which, although in substantial compliance with the order, was
stricken out, and judgment rendered in favor of the plaintiff for the
amount of the claim sued on. Held, that the action of the'court in striking
out the answer and proceeding to judgment was erroneous.

ERR O to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western- Districi of Arkansas.
Submitted on printed arguments by .Ar. Benjamin T. -Duval

Oct. 1876.]

FULLER ET AL. V. CLAFLIN ET AL.

for the plaintiffs in error, and by Mr. Isaac Dayton for the
defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought to recover the amount of two promissory notes of $1,000 each, given by the firm of Fuller & McKibben to H. B. Claflin & Co., and dated July 1, 1870.
A defence was set up that the execution of the notes was
procured by an agent of the holders, who presented the statement of an account showing a balance of $8,407.73; that,
believing the statement to be accurate, the defendants gave
the notes in suit and two others, in all equalling the amount
claimed by the statement; that the statement was, 'in fact,
false and fraudulent; that due on the account there was less
than $1,550, which has since been paid to Claflin & Co.
To this answer a demurrer -was interposed and overruled.
A motion was then made, and granted, that the answer be
rendered more specific, by setting forth the statement therein
referred to, ana the items and particulars of the alleged falsity.
In obediende to this order a further answer was filed.
A motion was then made to strike 6u.the further answer as
not being a compliance with the order, and for judgment. The
motion was granted, a request for time until the next morning
to perfect the answer was refused, and judgment -entered for
the amount of the notes. From this judgment the present
writ of error is brought.
It is objected, preliminarily, that the order directing the'
answer to be made more specific is one depending upon the discretibn of the court, and that it is not appealable. It is said
that the refusal of the court to grant further time. to. perfect
the answer. is also a discretionary order, and not appealable.
This may be true. 'There is undoubtedly a large class of cases
involving the procedure merely in a cause, in Which: the court
acts as in its discretion it thinks best, and where no appeal can
be taken from its decision.
It is quite likely that an order to make the answer more
specific falls within this category. So it may welLbe conceded
that the refusal to give further time until the next morning,
to comply with the direction, comes within the same rule. It

FULLER ET AL. Vs. CLAFLIN ET AL.

[[Sup. Ct.

may appear -harsh to us, but the judge holding the circuit was
better able, knowing all the circumstances, to determine the
point -than are we,. at a distant time and place.
The rule we are speaking of has sometimes been held to
apply to an order refusing to strike out an answer. 4 How.
Pr. 432.. But it does not apply to an order which strikes out
an answer. - That is not a mere procedure in the cause. It is
the ending of the cause, leaving the action undefended and
with a right to immediate judgment. Accordingly, we find in
this case,.that the same order entered on the 8th of December, 1873, at nine o'clock in the morning, which directed the
amended answer to be struck out and denied permission to file
a further answer on the next morning, also contained a final
judgment for the amount of the notes described, with interest
and costs, and directed that execution issue therefor. Such an
order has often been held to be appealable. liandebaum*v. The
.People, 8 Wall. 310 ; Hozey v. Bachan, 16 Pet. 215; Trustees
v. Forbes, 8 How. 285; Crucible Co. ,v.Steel Works, 9 Abb.
Pr. x. s. 195; Union Bank v. Mott, 11 Abb. Pr. 42; Shelden v. Adams, 18 id. 405.
The question then recurs upon the merits of the order striking out the answer, on the ground that it-was not in compliance with the rule requiring certain particulars to be stated.
The first answer alleged thai the statement furnished by the
agent of Claflin & Co. was false, and that instead of there
being a balance of $3,400 then due from the- debtors, as in the
stateiaent set forth, there was due less .than $1,550. The court
ordered that this answer should be made more definite and
precise, in two particulars: 1st, that the statement referred to
should be set forth in the ahswer; and, 2d, that the particulars and itenis of alleged fraud or error shfould be stated with
certainty and precision.
The first direction was performed by the allegatiQn of the
answer that "the original of said statement had been"lost or
destroyed, but a copy of which, except the credits dated on said
copy on and after July 1, 1870, is filed with the deposition of
Lyman Mallory, marked exhibit B, of depositions in said
cause." A copy of a lost document is attached to the depcsition of Mallory, the agent who made ±he statement, and who

Oct. 1876.]

FULLER ET AL.

V.

CLAFLIN ET AL.

appears to have been examined upon deposition, and, as we
may presume, on behalf of his employers. This is a reasonable
compliance with the direction. It is an allegation that the
creditors themselves are in possession of and have filed a copy
of the statement, that the debtors admit the accuracy of the
copy filed by their adversaries, that the original is lost or destroyed, and that it is out of their power to produce it.
Tile second requisition is also fairly complied with; to wit,
that a specification of the alleged items of error shall be made.
Thus, it was alleged in the second answer, that, instead of
there being due to Claflin & Co. the sum of $3,407, there was
due less than $1,550; and the difference between these two
sums, and in items which should have been credited in the
statement, were set forth as follows: -1. The sum of $801, the amount of a bill of goods lost in transit, which the plaintiffs recovered from the owners, but which
they fraudulently included in the account against the defendants.
2. The sum of $162.25, the amount of a bill of balmorals,
which was twice charged against the defendants.
3. That the plaintiffs fraudulently omitted to give a sufficient credit, by the sum of $602.79, for money received on
account of the defendants for cotton sunk in the Arkansas
River, from certain underwriters at New Orleans.
4. That there was a failure to credit the sum of $24.22, paid
on the ninth day of April, 1868.
These four items aggregate the sum of more than $1,590,
and, so far as they went, were specifications of the items set
forth in the answer. We think there was no ground for the
alleged failure to comply with .the order of the court in respect
to specifying the items.
It is further objected that the answer is not good in' law, for
that it does not show how the fraud was effected. The court
below, upon demurrer, held the answer to be good. This -decision stands unreversed, and is the law of this case. But we
are not discussing that question: The point whether the answer
contained a sufficient compliance with the previous order of the
court, and whether, for tha absence of such compliance,'the court
was justified- in striking it out, is all that is before us.
We are of the opinion that there was error in the proceed-.
VOL. 111.

2

EX PARTE PARKS.

[Sup. Ot.

ing below; that the order striking out the answer and the final
judgment rendered should be reversed, and the case remanded
to the Circuit Court for-further proceedings.
It is 8o ordered.

EX PARTE PARKS.
1.- Where an inferior court has jurisdiction of the cause and the person in a
criminal suit, and no writ of error lies from this court, it will not on habeas
corpus review the legality of the proceedings.
2. It is only where the proceedings below are entirely void, either for want of
jurisdiction; or other cause, that such relief will be given.
3. Whether a matter for which a party is indicted in the District Court is, or is
not, a crime against the laws of the United States, is a question within the
jurisdiction of that court, which it must decide. Its decision will not be
reviewed here by habeas corpus.
4. .Ex parte Yerger, 8 Wall. 86, and B: parte Lange, 18 id. 163, referred to and
approved.

MR. WriIAx GRiEBY presented the petition of Richard S.
Parks praying for a writ of habeas corpus.
The petition is set forth, and the facts. in the case are stated,
in the opinion of the court.
MR. JusTICE BRADLEy delivered the opinion of the court.
The petitioner for Jabeas corpus in this case was convicted
of forgery in the District Court of the United States for the
Western District of Viijinia, and is in custody by virtue of a
commitment under sentence of imprisonment in the penitentiary for said offence. Complaining that his conviction was
illegal, by reason that the act for which he was.convicted was
not a crime against the laws of the United. States, he applied
to the circuit judge for a habeas corpus, and, after a hearing
'thereon, was remanded into custody. Not being satisfied with
this decision, h now applies to this court for a habeas corpus.
His petition is as follows: "To. the HTonorable Mhorrison B. Waite, Chief ,Tustice, and his
Associates, J7ustices of the Supreme Court of the United
States:
"The petition *ofRichard S. Parks respectfully represents, that
your petitioner is illegally confined in jail, at Harrisonburg, in Vir-

