Oct. 1876.]

GRYmEs v. SANDERS ET AL.

8. An exception to such portions of a charge as are variant
from the requests made'by a party, not pointing out the variances, cannot be sustained. 40 N. Y. 556; 45 id. 129; 47 id.
570. It is not the duty of a judge at the circuit court, or of an
appellate court, to analyze and compare the requests and the
charge, to discover what are the portions thus excepted to. One
object of an exception is to call the attention of the circuit judge
to the precise point as to which it is supposed he has erred, that
he may then and there consider it, and give new and different
instructions to the jury, if in his judgment it should be proper
to ao so. Ayrault v. The Pacific Bank, 47 N. Y. 576. An
exception in the form we are considering entirely defeats that
object.
For these three reasons, the bill of exceptions fails to present
any point that we can consider.
We are also of the opinion, upon an examination of the
record, that the case was well submitted to the jury, and that
the plaintiff has no just ground of complaint.
Judgment affirmed.

GRY3MES v. SANDERS ET AL.
1. A mistake as to a matter of fact, to warrant relief in equity, must be material;
and the fact must be such that it animated and. controlled the conduct of the
party. It must go to the essence of the object in view, and not be merely
incidental. The court must be satisfied that but for the mistake the complainant would not have assumed the obligation from which he seeks to be
relieved.
2. Mistake, to be available in equity, must not have arisen from negligence
where the means of knowledge were easily accessible. The party complaining must Have exercised at least the degree of diligence "which may
be fairly expected from a reasonable person."
3. Where a party desires to rescind, upon the ground of mistake or fraud, he
must, upon the discovery of the facts, at once announce his purpose, and
adhere to it. If he be silent, and continue to treatthe property as his own,
he will be held to have waived the objection; and will be as conclusively
bound by the contract, as if the mistake or fraud had not occurred. This
applies peculiarly to speculative property, which is liable to large and costant fluctuations in value.
4. A coprt of equity is always reluctant to rescind, unless the parties can be put
back in statu quo. If this cannot be done, it will give such relief only where
the clearest and strongest equity imperatively demands it.

GRYmES v. SANDERS ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

AIPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Eastetn District of Virginia.
The case was argued by Mr. Conway Bobinson and Xr.Leigh
Robinson for the appellant, and by Mr. -Edwin L. Stanton and
Hr. G6,orge A. -Dallasfor the appellees.
MR. JUSiICE SwAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.The appellant was the defendant in the court below. The
record discloses no ground for any imputation against him. It
was not claimed in the discussion at the bar, nor is it insisted in
the printed arguments submitted by the counsel for the appellees, that there was on his part any misrepresentation, intentional or otherwise, or any indirection whatsoever. Nor has it
been alleged that there was any intentional misrepresentation or
purpose to deceive on the part of others.
The case rests entirely upon' the ground of mistake. The
question presented for our determination is whether that mistake
was of such a character, and attended with such circumstances,
as entitle the appellees to the relief sought by their bill aid
decreed to them by the court below.
Peyton Grymes, the appellant; owned two tracts of land
in Orange County, Va., lying about twenty-five miles from
Orange court-house. -Thelarger tract was regarded as valuable,
on account of the gold supposed to be upon it. The two tracts
were separated by intervening gold-bearing lands, which the
appellant had sold to others. Catlet applied to-him-for authority to sell the two tracts, which The appellant still owned. It
was given by-parol; and the appellant agreed to give, as Catlett's
compensation, all he could get for the property above $20,000.
Catlett offered to sell to Lanagan. Lanagan was ,unable to
spare the time to visit the property, but proposed to send Howel
Fisher to examine it.. This was assented to; and Catlett there,upon wrote to Peyton Grymes, Jr., the son of the appellant, to
have a conveya nce ready for Fisher and himself at the courthouse upon their arrival. The conveyance was provided accordingly, and Peyton G"rmes, Jr., drovethem to the lands. They
arrived after dark, and, stayed all night at a house on the goldbearing tract. "Fisher insisted that he must be back at the
court-house in time to take a designated train east the ensuing

Oct. 1876.]

GRYmIES v.

SANDERS ET AL.

day. This involved the necessity of an early start the next
morning. It was arranged that Peyton Grymes, Jr., should
have Peyton Hume, who lived near at hand, meet Fisher on the
premises in the morning and show them to him, while Gryimes
got his team ready for their return to the court-house. Hume
met Fisher accordingly, and showed him a place where there
had been washing for surface-gold, and then took him to an
abandoned shaft, which he supposed was on the premises.
There Fisher examined the quartz and other d bris lying about.
But a very few minutes had elapsed when Grymes announced
that his team was ready. The party immediately started back
to the -court-house. Arriving too late for the train, they drove
.to the house of the appellant: and Fisher remained there until
one o'clock that night. While Fisher was there, considerable
conversation occurred between him and the appellant in relation to the property; but it does not appear that any thing was
said materialo.to either party in this controversy. Fisher proceeded to Philadelphia, and reported favorably to Lanagan, and
subsequently, at his request, to Repplier, who became a party
to the negotiation. He represented -to both of them that the
abandoned shaft was upon the premises. Catlett went to Philadelphia, and there le sold the property to the appellees for
825,000. Fisher was sent to the court-house to investigate the
title. He employed Mr. Williams, a legal gentleman living
there, to assist him. A deed was prepared by Mr. Williams,
and executed by the appellant on the 21st of March, 1866. On
the 7th of April ensuing, the appellees paid over $12,500 of the
purchase-money, and gave their bond to the appellant for the
same amount, payable six months fron date, with interest.
The seed was placed in the hands of a depositary, to be held as
an escrow until the bond should be paid. - Catlett, under a
power of attorney, received the first instalment, paid over to
the appellant $10,000, and retained the residue on account of
the compensation to which he was entitled under the contract
between them. The vendees requested Iliune to hold possession of ,the property for them until they should make some
other arrangement.' He occupied the premises until the following July, when, with their consent, he transferred the possession
to Cordon, In that month, Lanagan and Repplier came to see

GRYmES V. SANDERS ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

the property. Huae was there washing for gold. He began
to do so with the permission of the appellant before the sale,
and had continued the work without intermission. The appel.lees desired to be shown the boundary-lines. iHume said he did
not know where they were, and referred them to Johnson.
Johnson came. The appellees desired to be taken to the shaft
which had been shown to Fisher. Johnson said it was not on
the premises. iHume thought it was. Johnson was positive;
and he was right. The appellees seemed surprised, but said
little on the subject. They proceeded to examine the premises
within the lines, and, before faking their departure, employed
Gordon- to explore the property for gold. Subsequently this
arrangement was abandoned, and they paid him for- the time
and money he had expended in getting ready for the work. In
September, they sent Bowman as their agent to make the exploration. On his way, he stopped at the court-house, and told the
appellant that the shaft shown to Fisher as on the land was not
on it. The appellant replied instantly, " that there was no shaft
on the land he had sold to Repplier and Lanagan, and that he
had never represented to any one that there was a shaft on the
land, and that he had never authorized any one to make such a
representation, nor did lie know or have reason to believe that
any such representation had, in fact, been made by any one."
It does not appear that his attention had before been called
to the subject, or.that he was before advised that any mistake as to the shaft had occurred. Bowman spent some days
upon the land, and made a number of cuts, all of which were
shallow. The deepest was only fifteen feet in depth. It
was made under the direction of Embry and Johnson, two
experienced miners living in the neighborhood. It reached a
vein of quartz, but penetrated only a little way into it. They
thought the prospect very encouraging, and urged that the cut
should be made deeper.
.Bowman declined to do any thing more, and left the premises.
No further exploration was ever made. Johnson says, "I
know the land well, and know there has been gold found upon
it, and a great deal of gold, too, - that is to say, surface-gold, b- t it has never been worked for vein-gold. The gold that I
refer to was found by the defendant, Grymes, arid those that

Oct. 1876.]

GRYMES v.

SANDERS ET AL.

worked under him." Re considered Bowman's examination
"imperfect and insufficient." He had had ' twenty-three years'
experience in mining for gold."
Embry's testimony is to the same effect, both as to the surface-gold and the character of, the examination made by Bowman. The premises.lie between the Melville and the Greenwood
Mines. Before the war, a bucket of ore, of from three to four
gallons, taken from the latter mine, yielded $2,400. of gold.
This, however, was exceptional. In the spring of 1869.a vein
was struck, from forty to fifty feet below the surface, yielding
$500 to the ton. Work was stopped by the influx of -water.
It was to be resumed as soon as an engine, 'which was ordered,
should arrive. Ore at that depth, yielding from eight to ten
dollars a ton, will pay a profit. Embry says he is well acquainted with the courses of the veins in the Melville and the
Greenwood Mines, and that " the Greenwood veins do pass
through the land in controversy, and some of the Melville
veins do also." Speaking of Bowman and his .last cut, he
says

-

"At the place I showed him where to cut he struck a vein,
but just cut into the top of it; he did not go down through it,
or across it. From the appearance of the vein, I was very certain .that be would find gold ore, if he would cut across it and
go deep into it, and I told him so at the time; but he said that
they bad sent for him to return home, and he couldn't. stay
longer to make the examination, and went off, leaving the
cut as it was; and the exploration to this day has never been
renewed. I am still satisfied, that, whenever a proper examination is made, gold, and a great deal .of it, will be found in
that vein; for it is the same vein which passes through 'the
Greenwood Mine, which was struck last spring, and yielded
$500 to the ton. His examination in other respects, ai well as
this, was-imperfect and insufficient. I don"t think he did any
thing like making a proper exploration'for gold. , I don'i think
he had more than three or four hands, and they were not
engaged more than eight or ten days at the utmost."
In September, 1866, Repplier instructed Catlett to advise
the appellant, that, by reason of the mistake as to the shaft, the
appellees demanded the return of the purchase-money which

GRYMES v. SANDERS ET AL.

[Sup. Ot.

had been paid. In the spring of 1867, Lanagan, upon the
same ground, made the same demand in person. The appellant replied, that he had parted with the money. He promised
to reflect on the subject, and address Lanagan by letter. He
did write accordingly, but the appellees have not produced the
letter. This bill was filed on the 21st of March, 1868.
A mistake as to a matter of fact, to warrant relief in equity,
must be material, and the fact must be such that it animated
and controlled the conduct of the party. It must go to the
essence of the object in view, and not be merely incidental.
The court must'be satisfied, that but for the mistake the complainant would not have assumed the obligation from which
lie seeks to be relieved. Kerr on Mlistake and Fraud, 408;
Trigg v. Bead, 5 Humph. 529; Jennings v. Broughton, 17
Beav. 541; Thompson v. Jackson, 3 Rand. 507; Ifarrod's
I-eirs v. Cowan, Hardin, 543; 'Mll v. Bush, 19 Barb. (Ark.)
522; Jouzan v. Toulmin, 9 Ala. 662.
Does the case in hand come within this category?
When Fisher made his examination at the shaft, it had been
abandoned. This was prima fade" proof that it was of n'o
account. It does not appear that he thought of having an
analysis made of any of the debris about it, nor that the d6bris
indicated in any wise the presence of gold. He requested
lHume to send him specimens from the shafts on the contiguous tracts, and it was done. No such request was made touching the'shaft in question, and none were sent. It is neither
alleged nor proved that there was a purpose at any time, on
the part of the appellees, to work the shaft. The quartz found
was certainly not more encouraging than that taken from the
last cut made by Bowman under, the advice of Embry and
Johnson. This cut he refused to deepen, and abandoned.
When Lanagan and Repplier were told by Johnson that the
shaft was not on the premises, they said nothing about abandoning the contract, and nothing which manifested that they
attached any particular consequence to the matter, and certainly nothing -which indicated that they regarded the shaft as
vital to the value of the property. They proceeded with their
examinatio-i of the premises as if the discovery had not been
made. On 'his way to Philadelphia, after this visit, Lanagan

Oct. 1876.]

GRYMES v.

SANDERS ET AL.

saw and talked several times with Williams, who had prepared
the deed. Williams says, "I cannot recollect all ihat. was
said in those conversations, but I do know that nothing was
said about the shaft, and that he said nothing to produce the
impression that he was dissatisfied or disappointed in any
respect -%,ith the property after the examination that he had
made of it." Lanagan's conversation with Houseworth was to
the same effect.
The subsequent conduct of the appellees shows that the
mistake had no effect upon their minds for a considerable
period after its discovery, and then it seems to have been
rather a pretext than a cause.
Mistake, to be available in equity, must not have arisen
from negligence, where the means of knowledge were easily
accessible. The party complaining must have exercised at
least the degree of diligence "which may be fairly expected
from a reasonable person." Kerr on Fraud and 'Mistake,
407.
Fisher, the agent of the appellees, who had the deed prepared, was within a few hours' travel of the land when the
deed was executed. He knew the grantor had sold contiguous
lands upon which veins of gold had been found, and that the
course and direction of those veins were important to .the
premises in question. lie could easily have taken measures to
see and verify the boundary-lines on the ground. He did
nothing of the kind. The appellees paid their money without
even inquiring of any one professing to know where the lines
were. The courses and distances specified in the deed show
that a surveyor had been employed. Why was he not called
upon? The appellants sat quietly in the dark, until the mistake was developed by the light of subsequent events. Full
knowledge was within their reach all the time, from the
beginning of the negotiation until the transaction was dosed.
It was tlieir own fault that they did not avail themselves of
it. In 3lanser v. Davis, 6 Ves. 678, the complainant, being
desirous to become a freeholder in Essex, bought a house
which he supposed to be in that county. It proved to be in
Kei.,. He was compelled in equity to complete the purchase.
The mistake there, as here, was the result of the want of

GRYmES v. SANDERS ET AL.

[Sup. Ot.

proper diligence. See also Seton v. Slade, 7 Ves. 269; 2 Kent's
Com. 485; 1 Story's Eq., sects. 146, 147; Atwood v. Small,
6 C1. & Fin. 388; Jennings v. Broughton, 17 Beav. 141;
Campbell v. Ingilby, 1 De G. & J. 405; Garrett v. Burleson, 25 Tex. 44; Warner v. Daniels et al., 1 Woodb. &
M. 91; Person v. Sanger, id. 139; Lamb v. Harris, 8 Ga.
546; Trigg v. Read, 5 Humph. 529; Haywood v. Cope, 25
Beav. 143.
Where.a party desires to rescind upon the ground of mistake
or fraud, he must, upon the discovery of the facts, at once
announce his purpose, and adhere to it. If he be silent, and
continue to treat the property as his own, he will be held to
have waived the objection, and will be conclusively bound by
the contract, as if the mistake or fraud had not occurred. He
is not permitted to play fast and loose. Delay and vacillation
are fatal to the right which had before subsisted. These remarks are peculiarly applicable to speculative property like
that here in question, which is liable to large and constant fluctuations in value. Thomas v. Bartow, 48 N. Y. 200; Flint v.
Wood, 9 Hare, 622; Jennings v. Broughton, 5 De G., M. & G.
139 ; Lloyd v. Brewster,4 Paige, 537 ; Saratoga & S. B. B. Co.
v. Bowe, 24 Wend. 74; Minturn v. Main, 3 Seld. 220; 7 Rob.Prac., c. 25, sect. 2, p. 432; Campbell v. Fleming, 1 Ad. & El.
41; Sugd. Vend. (14th ed.) 335; Diman v. Providence,. W.
B. B. B. Co., 5 R. I. 130.
A court of equity is always reluctant to rescind, unless the
parties can be put back in statu quo. If this cannot be done,
it will give such relief only where the clearest and strongest
equity imperatively demands it. Here the appellant received
the money paid on the contract in entire good faith. He
parted with it before he was aware of the claim of the appellees, and cannot conveniently restore it. The imperfect and
abortive exploration made by Bowman has injured the credit
of the property. Times have since changed. There is less
demand for such property, and it has fallen largely in market
value. Under the circumstances, the loss ought not to be
borne by the appellant. Hfunt v. Silk, 5 East, 452; Mffinturn
v. Main, 3 Seld. 227; Okill v. Whittaker, 2 Phill. 340; Brisbane v. Davies, 5 Taunt. 144; Andrews v. Hancick, 1 Brod. &

Oct. 1876.]

GRYIEs V.

SANDERS ET AL.

B. 37; Skcyring v. Greenwood, 4 Barn. & 0. 289; Jennings
v. Broughton, 5 De G., M. & G. 139.
The parties, in dealing with the property in question, stood
upon a footing of equality.. They judged and acted respectively for themselves. The contract was deliberately entered
into on both sides. The appellant guaranteed the title, and
nothing more. Thd appellees assumed the .payment of the
purchase-money. They assumed no other liability. There was
neither obligation nor liability on either side, beyond what was
expressly stipulated. If the property had proved unexpectedly
to be of inestimable value, the appellant could have no further
or other claim. If entirely worthless, the appellees assumed
the risk, and must take the consequences. Segur v. Tingley,
11 Conn. 142; Haaywood v. Cope, 25 Beav. 140; Jennings v.
Broughton, 17 id. 232; Atwood v. Small, 6 Cl. & Fin. 497;
Marvin v. Bennett, 8 Paige, 321; Thomas v. Bartow, 48 N. Y.
198; Hunter v. Goudy, 1 Ham. 451; LHalls v. Thonipson,
1 Sm. & M. 481.
The bill, we have shown, cannot be maintained.
In our examination of the,,case, we have assumed that those
who are alleged to have spoken to the agent of the appellees
upon the subject of the shaft, before the sale, had the requisite
authority from the appellant.
Considering this to be as claimed by the appellees, our views
are as we have expressed them. We have not, therefore, found
it necessary to consider the question of such authority; and
hence have said nothing upon that subject, and nothing as to
the aspect the case would present if that question were resolved
in the negative.
Decree reversed, and case remanded with directions to dismiss
the bill.

