92

DRESSER V. MISSOURI, ETC. R.R. CONST. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

execution must still be withheld until the time had elapsed
within which the further security might be given as a matter
of right. This changed the law from what we held it to be in
Commissioners v. Gorman, and at once, upon the discovery of
the effect of what had been done, the amendment was adopted
limiting the time" to ten days, as it originally stood. Nothing
was done, however, towards adapting the section as revised to
the liberal construction of the act of 1872, indicated in Telegraph
Company v. _EBser.
We are, therefore, of the opinion, that, under the law as it
now stands, the service of a writ of error, or the perfectioi of
an appeal within sixty days, Sundays exclusive, after the rendering of the judgment or the passing of the decree complained
of, is an indispensable prerequisite to a supersedeas, and that
it is not within the power of a justice or judge of the appellate
court ti grant a stay of process on the judgment or decree, if
this has not been done.
The appeal was taken in this case after the expiration of
sixty days, and the motion to vacate the supersedeas must for
that reason be granted.
Motion granted.

D.RESSER v. IVISSOURI AND IOWA RAILWAY CONSTRUCTION
CoMPANY.
A bona fide holder of negotiable paper, purchased before its maturity upon an
unexecuted contract, on which part payment only had been made when he
received notice of fraud, and a prohibition to pay, is protected only to the
amount paid before the receipt of such notice.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.
Submitted on printed arguments by Hr. James Grant for the
plaintiff in error, and by 1r. George G. TFright, contra.
MRt. JUSTICE HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.

This action is brought upon three several promissory notes
made by the Missouri and Iowa Railway Construction Company,
dated Nov. 1,1872, payable at two, three, and four months, to the
order of William Irwin, for the aggregate amount of $10,000.

Oct. 1876.]

DRESSER V. Missouni, EyrC.

R.R. CONST. CO.

93

The defence is made that they were obtained by his fraudulent representations.
But a single point requires discussion. Conceding that the
present plaintiff received the notes before maturity, and that
his holding is bona fide, the question is as to the amount of his
recovery.
Under the ruling of the court he recovered $500. His contestation is, that he is entitled to recover the face of the note,
with interest.
After the evidence was concluded, the plaintiff asked the
court to charge the jury, that if they bulieved, from the evidence, that the plaintiff purchased the notes in controversy of
William Irwin for a valuable consideration, on the 1st of November, 1872. and paid $500, part of the consideration, on 21st
of January. 1873, before any notice of any fraud in the contract,
he was entitled to recover the whole amount of the notes; and
the court refused this instruction. But the court charged the
jury, "That, in the first place, the jury must find that there was
fraud in the inception of the notes as alleged; and that if the
defendants failed to satisfy the jury of that fact, the whole
defence fails.
" That if the fact of fraud be established, and the jury find
from the evidence that the plaintiff paid $500 upon the notes
without notice of the fraud, and that after receiving notice of
the fraud the plaintiff paid the balance due upon the notes, he
is protected only pro tanto; that is, to the amount paid before
he received notice."
It does not appear that, upon the purchase of the notes in
suit, the plaintiff gave his note- or othef bbligition which "might
by its transfer subject him to liability. '-His agreement seems
to have been an oral one merely, - to pay the amount agreed
upon, as should be required; and he had paid'$500, and no more,
when notice of the fraud was brought home to him.
The argument of the plaintiff in error is that negotiable
paper may be sold for such sum as the parties may agree upon,
and that, whether such sum is large or small, the title to the
entire paper passes to the purchaser. This is true; arid if the
plaintiff had bought the notes in suit for $500, before maturity

94

DRESSER v. MissouRi,

Erc. R.R. CONST. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

and without notice of any defence, and paid that sum, or given
his negotiable note therefor, the authorities cited show that the
whole interest in the notes would, have passed to him, and lie
could have recovered the full amount due upon them. Fowler v.
Strickland, 107 Mass. 552; Park Bank v. Watson, 42 N. Y. 490;
Bank of -Michig:anv. Green, 83 Iowa, 140. The present case
differs from the cases referred to in this respect. The notes in
question were purchased upon an unexecuted contract, upon
which $500 only had been paid when notice of the fraud and a
prohibition to pay was receiv6d by the purchaser. The residue of the contract on the part of the purchaser is unperformed, ana honesty and fair dealing require that he should not
perform it; certainly, that he should no .be permitted, by performing it, to obtain'from the defendants money which they
ought not to pay. As to what he pays after notice, ne is not a
pureaser in good faith. He then pays with knowledge of the
fraud, to which he becomes a consenting party. One who pays
with knowledge of a fraud is in no better position than if he
had not paid at all. He has no greater equity, and receives no
greater protection. Such is the rule as to contracts generally.
In the case of the sale of real estate for a sum payable in instalments, and circumstances occur showing the existence of
fraud, or that it -would be inequitable to take the title, the purchaser can recover back the sum paid before notice of the fraud,
but not that paid afterwards. Barnardv. Campbell, 58 N. Y.
73; lewis v. Bradford, 10 Watts, 82; Juvenal v. Jackson,
2 Harris, 529; id. 480; Youst v. Afartin, 3 S. & R. 423, 480.
In Weaver v. Barden, 49 N. Y. 291, the court use this language: " To entitle a purchaser to the pro.tection of a court of
equity, as against a legal title or a prior equity, he must not
only be a purchaser without notice, but he must be a purchaser
for a valuable consideration; that is, for value paid. Where a
man purchases an estate, pays part and gives bonds for the residue, notice of an equitable incumbrance before payment of the
money, though after giving the bond, is sufficient. Touville v.
Naish, 8 P. Wins. 806; Story v. Lord Windsor, 2 Atk. 680.
Meie security to pay the purchase price is not a purchase for a
valuable consideration. ffardingham v. Wicholls, 3 Atk. 304;
-'aundrell v. Afaundrell, 10 Ves. 246, 271 ; Jackson v. Cadwell,

Oct. 1876.]

DRESSER V. MISSOUm, ETC. R.R. CoNST. Co.

95

1 Cowen, 622; Jewell v. Palmer, 7 J. C. 65. The decisions
are placed upon the ground, according to Lord Hardwicke, that
if the money is not actually paid the purchaser is not hurt.
He can be released from his bond in equity."
The plaintiff here occupies the same position as the bona fide
purchase'r of the first of a series of notes, of which, after notice
of a fraud, he purchases the rest of the series. He is protected
so far as his good faith covers the purchase, and no farther.
Upon receiving notice of the fraud, his duty was to refuse further payment; and the facts before us required such refusal by
him. Authorities supra.
Crandell v. Vickery, 45 Barb. 156, is in point. Holdridge
had obtained the indorsement by Vickery of his (Holdridge's)
notes by false and fraudulent representations. These notes were
transferred to Crandell without notice or knowledge of the fraud,
lie giving to Holdridge several checks for the amount, upon the
understanding that they were not to be presented for payment,
but when the money was wanted, he was to give new checks as
needed. Before giving the new checks, plaintiff was informed
of the fraud, and requested not to make payment, or to give his
checks. He did, however, give his new checks, according to the
original agreement, and brought suit upon the notes against
Vickery, the indorser.
It was held that he was not a bona fide holder; for the reason
that the transaction was executory when he received notice of
the fraud; that lie had then parted with no value; that the
real obligations were given afterwards, and under circumstances
that afforded no protection.
That case is stronger for the holder than the one before us,
in the fact that checks were there given on the original transaction, which might have been presented or -passed off to the
prejudice of the maker; while here the transaction was oral
throughout.
To the same purport in principle, although upon facts somewhat different, are the cases of Garlandv. The Salem Bank,
9 Mass. 408, The Fulton Bank v. The Phenix Bank, 1 Hall,
562, and White V. Springfield Bank, 3 Sandf. S. C. 227.
The cases are numerous that where a bona fide holder takes
a note misappropriated, fraudulently obtained, or without con-

96

BIRD ET AL., Ex'Rs, v. LOUISIAN-A STATE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

sideration, as collateral security, he holds for the amount
advanced upon it, and for that amount only. WTilliams v. Smith,
2 Hill, 301.
In Allaire v. ffartsiorn, 1 Zabr. 663, the case was this:
Hartshorn sued Allaire on a note of $1,500 at ninety days,
made by Allaire. It was proved that the note had been misapplied by one Pettis, to whom it had been entrusted; that be
had pledged it to the plaintiff as security for $750 borrowed of
him on 1iegeman's check, and also as security for a $400 acceptance of another party then given up to Pettis.
On the trial, the court charged the jury, that, if any consideration was given by the plaintiff for. the note, "they should not
limit their verdict to the amount so given, but should find the
whole amount due on the face of the note." The case was carried to the court of errors and appeals of the State of New Jer-"
sey, upon an exception to this charge.. The court reversed the
judgment, holding that, although a bona fide holder, Hartshorn
could recover only the amount of his advances.
The case before us is governed by the rule that the portion
of an unperformed contract whikh is completed after notice of
a fraud is not within- the principle which protects a bona fide
purchaser.
No respectable authority has been cited to us sustaining a
contrary position, nor ,have we been able to find any. The
judgment below is based upon authority, and upon the soundest
principles of honesty and fair dealing, It has our concurrence,
and is affirmed.

BIRD ET AL., EXECUTORS, v. LOUISyANA STATE BANK.
1. A promissory note, bearing date Jan. 28, 1859, payable twelve months thereafter at the Citizens' Bank, New Orleans, and indorsed by A., the payee,
and B., the then owner thereof, who resided in Missouri, was, before maturity, placed in the branch of the Louisiana State Bank at Baton Rouge,
whose cashier indorsed and forwarded it to the mother bank at New Orleans
for collection. It was duly protested for non-payment by the notary of
the mother bank, who mailed notices of protest for the indorsers to the
cashier of the branch bank. A., upon whom reliafice was principally placed,
died, and his executors were qualified before the maturity of the note; but
neither they nor B. was served by the branch bank with ioticd of protest.

