Oct. 1876.]

HOiE INS. Co. v. BALT. WAREHOUSE CO.

527

as the call is for the post where the survey begins. And these
courses and distances enclose the identical land in dispute. In
such a case, it would be wrong to let two false boundaries stand
in order to defeat a conveyance.
It is proper to remark that a map will accompany the report
of this case, so as to make this opinion intelligible.
Judgment affirmed.
HOiE INSURANCE CO-mPANY v. BALTIMORE WAREHOUSE
COMPANY.
1. A policy of insurance taken out by warehouse-keepers, against loss or damage
by fire on "merchandise, their own or- held by them in trust, or in which
they have an interest or liability, contained in" a designated warehouse,
covers the merchandise itself, and not merely the interest or claim of the
warehouse-keepers.
2. If the merchandise be destroyed by fire, the assured may recover its entire
value, not exceeding the sum insured, holding the remainder of the amount
recovered, after satisfying their own loss, as trustees for the owners.
3. Goods described in a policy as "merchandise held in trust" by warehousemen, are goods intrusted to them for keeping. The phrase, "held in trust,"
is to be understood in its mercantile sense.
4. A policy was taken out by warehousemen on "merchandise" contained in
their warehouses, "their own or held by them in trust, or in which they
have an interest or liability." Depositors of the merchandise, who received
advances thereon from the warehousemen, took out other policies covering
the same goods. Held, that the several policies constituted double insurance, and that they bear a loss proportionally.
5. In a case of contributing policies, adjustments of loss made by an expert may
be submitted to the jury, not as evidence of the facts stated therein, or
as obligatory, but for the purpose of assisting the jury in calculating the
amount of liability of the insurer upon the several hypotheses of fact mentioned in the adjustment, if they find either hypothesis correct.
6. What evidence may be submitted to a jury from vhich they may find a waiver
of preliminary proofs.
7. No part of a letter written as an offer of compromise is admissible in evidence.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Maryland.
This was assumpsit by the defendant in error, .commenced
June 2, 1873, on a policy of insurance issued to it Dec. 7, 1869,
by the plaintiff in error, and containing, among others, the
following provisions "By this policy of insurance the Home Insurance Company, in
consideration of 8100 to them paid by the insured hereinafter

528

HOME INS. CO. V. BALT. WAREHOUSE CO.

[Sup. Ct.

named, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, do insure Baltimore Warehouse Company against loss or damage by fire to the
amount of $20,000, on merchandise hazardous or extra hazardous,
their own or held by them in'trust, or in which they have an interest or liability contained in that part of the State tobacco-warehouse No. 2, used by them, lying between Frederick-Street Dock
and-Long Dock, separated by a street from the south end of the
Maryland Sugar Refinery. Other insurance permitted without notice, unless required.
"To cover whilst on the street and pavement around said warehouse. As per application.
"And the Home Insurance Company above named, for the consideration aforesaid, do hereby promise and agree to make good
unto the said assured, their executors, administrators, or assigns,
all such loss or damage, not exceeding in amount the sum insured,
as shall happen by fire to the property as above specified during one
year,-to wit, from the seventh day of December, 1869 (at twelve
o'clock at noon), until the seventh day of December, 1870 (at
twelve o'clock at noon), -the said loss or damage to be estimated
according to the actual cash value of the said property at the time
the same shall happen; and to be paid within sixty days after due
notice and proof thereof made by the insured, in conformity to the
conditions-annexed to'this policy, unless the property be replaced
by similar proper'ty of equal value and goodness, or the company
have given notice of their intention to rebuild or repair the damnaged premises."
Also the following conditions
"9. Persons sustaining loss or damage by fire shall forthwith
give notice thereof in writing to the company, or its agent, and as
soon after as possible they shall deliver as particular an account of
their loss and damage as the nature of the case will admit, signed
with their own hands. And they shall accompany the same with
their oath or aflirnation, declaring the said account to be true and
just; showing also.the ownership of the property insured ; what
other insurance, if any, existed on the same property, and giving a
copy of the written portion of the policy of each company; what
was the whole cash value of the subject insured; what wastheir
interest therein ; in what general manner (as to trade, manufactory,
merchandise, or otherwise) the building insured- or containing the
subject insured, and the several parts thereof, were occupied ft
the time of the loss, and who were the occupants of such build-

Oct. 1876.]

HOME INS.

Co. v.

BALT. WAREHOUSE CO.

529

in-; and when and how the fire originated, so far as they know
or believe."
"13. It is furthermore hereby expressly provided, that no suit or
action of any kind against said company, for the recovery of any
claim upon, under, or by virtue of this policy, shall be sustainable
in any court of law or chancery, unless such suit or action shall be
commenced within the term of twelve months next after any loss
or damage shall occur; and in case any such suit or action shall
be commenced against said company after the expiration of twelve
months next after such loss or damage shall hav occurred, the lapse
of time shall be taken and. deemed as conclusive evidence against
the validity of the claim thereby so attempted to be enforced."

By an act of the general assembly of Maryland, passed at the
January session, 1867, the defendant in error was chartered for
the purpose of carrying on the business of warehousemen and
forwarders in the city of Baltimore. It was "expressly prohibited from buying o.r selling any goods, wares, or merchandise, or
other property, as dealers or on commission," but was authorized to receive and collect the usual and customary rates of
dockage, wharfage, storage, and lighterage on all goods deposited
with it, which, together with all charges and expenses incurred
for labor or otherwise in the receipt, delivery, or custody of such
goods, was made a lien thereon.
The tenth section of the charter was as follows: "The receipts, warrants, or warehouse certificates issued by this
corporation for goods, wares, and merchandise in their possession
or under their control, shall, in all cases, be signed by the president
or vice-president and secretary of the corporation, and attested by
the corporate seal; and copies thereof shall be registered in two
books kept for that purpose, one of which books shall be kept by
each of the officers whose signatures are to be affixed as aforesaid,
which books shall be at all times open for the inspection of dealers
with said corporation. The said receipts, warrants, or certificates
may be transferred by indorsement thereof; and any person to
whom the same may be transferred shall be deemed and taken to
be the owner of 'the goods, wares, And merchandise .therein specified, so far as to give validity to any pledge, lien, or transfer made
or created by such person or persons ; but 'no property shall be
delivered except on surrender and cancellation of said original receipt, warrant, or certificate. Every such receipt, warrant, or wareVOL. II.

34

HomE INs. Co. v. BALT. WAREHOUSE CO.

530

[Sup. Ct.

house certificate shall contain on its face a notice that the property
mentioned therein is held by this corporati6n as bailees only, and
is not insured by this corporation."
The charter was, in 1870, amended so as to authorize -the corporation "to make advances upon all goods, wares, merchandise,
or Gther property which may be received by or stored with it."
It was admitted at the trial, that, on the 18th of July, 1870,
State tobacco warehouse No. 2 was destroyed by fire; that, at the
time of the fite, property was .stored by the following persons,
in, accordance with receipts given by the defendant in error to
them respectively, of which the subjoined is a specimen Notice.
The property mentioned in this receipt is held by this corporation as bailees only, and is not insured by this corpbration.
BALTIMORE

WAREHOUSE

COMPANY.

Incorporated 1867.
No. 1168.]

May 24, 1870.
Received by the Baltimore Warehouse Company, in
store at No. 2 tobacco warehouse, from Hough, OlenBALTIMORE,

morks.

x Q.

dening, & Co., one hundred and nine bales cotton, to
hereon, but
only on the surrender and cancellation of this receipt,
reeit
and on the payment of the charges payable thereon.
JAMES HOOPER, .President.

IMPTSES.

t
stooge 2c "pe
be delivered according to the indorsement
La.bo...

Cooperage .
Gougng..,
IV6ighg..

JAM ES B.

BALTo. WAREHOUS
00o. SEAL.

Commis....

Advaces

EDwIARDS,
Secretary and Registrar.

1168.
Copy.]

BALTIMORE,

Deliver to the order of

18

the within-described

merchandise.
(Signed)

IHouGH, CLENDENING, &

Witness:
Iough, Olendening, & Co., cotton.
Hawkins, Williamson, & Co., ,.
.
Elliott Bros.,
M cCloud'
o,
F. L. Brauns & Co.,
W. B. Hooper,
F. W. Beck & Co.,

Total ...............

....

,I ...
,,........
,, .......
,,.....

tobacco

$52,863.00

....

.

...

26,861.16
8,188.81
1,862.35

2,888.00
.

.

.

.

320.97
6,000.00

$98,984.29

Co.

HOME INs. Co. v. BALT. WAREHOUSE CO.

Oct. 1876.]

531

That all of said property was destroyed by fire on the 18th
of July, 1870, except that embraced in a salvage statement
made by a committee appointed by the underwriters, and signed
by George B. Coale for the committee.
Previously to and at the time of said fire, the defendant in
error held a policy, substantially in the same form as that now in
suit, issued by the Associated Firemen's Insurance Company of
Baltimore, in the sum of $10,000. The following policies in the
names of other parties as assured, covering only specific portions
of said property hereinafter mentioned, were in force, viz.:On the property stored by Elliott Bros., three policies of the
following companies, viz., in name of Elliott Bros. :
W. H., Potomac Ins. Co. for ..
W. H., Peabody
W. H., Royal

,,
,,

,
,

.......

.$14,000

.......
.......

.3,500

3,400

$20,900
On the property stored by F. W. Beck & Co. policies in
their name as assured in W. H., The People's Ins. Co. for ...
......
86,000
On that of Hough, Clendening, & Co. in their name as
assured : -

W. H., The Hartford Ins. Co;for ...
W.
W.
W.
W.

H., ,,
H., ,,
H., ,,
H., ,,

W. H.,
W. H.,

W. H.,
W. H.,
W. H.,
W. H.,

Franklin
People's
Potomac
Peabody

City

,,
,,
,,

......

, ......
, ......
,......

..
.

,
,,
,,

,,
Washington ,,

,,

Consolidated Ins. Co. for . .
Home Ins. Co. of Baltimore for
Citizens' ,,
,,
,,
,,

,,

,,

83,500

,.
, .......

.

3,500
2,500
900
6,000

7,700

.

7,300

Atlantic (1 83,500 and 1 for $6,000)=
.

9,500
. 12,100
6,000
1,400

Said last-mentioned policies covered 676 bales of cotton, if the
two $6,000 policies of the Peabody and Atlantic were each on
110 separate bales, and 566 bales, if they both were only the
same 110 bales, and that said cotton was worth at the time of
the fire $78.32 per bale.
. On the property -stored by Hawkins, Williamson, & Co. in
their name as assured: -

532

HOmIE INS. Co. v. BALT. WAREHOUSE CO.

Royal Ins. Co. for . ....

..........
..
....
Connectiefit Ins. Co. for .
......
Peabody
,.
. . .....
Hartford
.....
Home Ins. Co. of Baltimore for . .

Western

W. H.,
W. H.,
W. H.,

W. H.,

,,

,..

..

.

[Sup. Ct.

.$10,000
6,500
.
16,000
5,000
.. 3,000
. 5,000

On the property stored by F. L. Brauns & Co. in their name
as assured: People's Ins. Co. for ...
..........
.$2,888
It was also admitted that the defendant in error had advanced
to the owners of said property, on the deposit thereof, the sums
hereinafter named, and that it held the said property as security
therefor, viz. : To Hou-gh, Clendening, & Co..........
$48,720
Hawkins, Williamson, & Co. . . .....
...
16,800
McCloud & Co ..........
. . .
1,48b
,, F. W. Beck & Co ...............
4,234
$71,234
It was further admitted, that all of the before-mentioned
.policies marked "W. H." were. made payable on their face to
the defendant in error, in these words: "Loss, if any, payable
to the Baltimoie Warehouse Company," and delivered to and
held by it as additional security for advances at the time of the
making of said advances.
Among other points on which no; agreement between the
underwriters and the insured could be reached, was the question
whether the general *policy of the plaintiff in error and that
of the Associated Firemen's Insurance Company were liable to
contribute with the specific policies for losses on the property
covered by the latter.
Cases involving this question were instituted in the State
courts. Among others, was one by Hough, Clendening, & Co.,
to the use of the warehouse company, on, a specific policy
against the People's Insurance Company.
For the purpose of awaiting the decision by the State courts
of this question of contribution, and also of the question whether
the policies of the Peabody and Atlantic companies covered
the same lot of one hundred and ten bales of cotton, or two
lots each of that number, amounting together to two hundred

Oct. 1876.]

HomE INs. Co. v. BALT. WAREHOUSE CO.

533

and twenty bales, the plaintiff entered into a written agreement
with the defendant, extending, to a named day, the period
within which suit might be brought on the policy sued on in
this case. The final decision of these questions not having
been made within the period prescribed in the first agreement,
another agreement was made, providing for a further extension.
Pending this state of facts, the defendant in error presented to
the plaintiff in error preliminary proof as to, and received payment for, twenty-four bales of cotton, which were not covered by
any of the specific policies, nor affected by any of the questions involved in the cases pending in the State court, nor otherwise the subject of dispute. When this payment was made, the
plaintiff in error asked to have its policy surrendered. Hooper,
the president of the defendant in error, refused to surrender it,
saying that he wanted to retain it to cover all losses, whether
then seen or not,- all against which it might turn out, from
the decision of the cases then pending, or from other causes
which could not then be anticipated or seen, that the defendant
in error was not otherwise protected; adding that some of the
companies which had issued specific policies were ah-eady contending that the policies issued by the plaintiff in error and
the Associated Company were bound to contribute to the losses
covered by the specific policies. He also then made claim for
the one hundred and ten bales of cotton, if not covered by the
policies of the Peabody and Atlantic, on the ground that the
policy in suit was intended to cover all losses of every kind
which could not be seen or specified. Coale, the agent of the
plaintiff in error, denied that it could be held responsible for
any other loss than that of the twenty-four bales. No final
settlement was made. But, after consulting with the home
officers of his company, he settled for the twenty-four bales,
allowed Hooper to retain its policy, and took a receipt for the
special settlement then made. No objection to the want of
preliminary proof as to the claims retained was made, until a
few days before the institution of this suit. The plaintiff in
error denied its liability on these claims, until the decision of
the State court in one of the cases pending" in it; after which
Coale, its 'agent, admitted that its liability was thereby established, and made various calculations of the amount thereof.

534

HomE INS. Co. v.

BALT. WAREHOUSE

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Barney, who was elected president of the defendant in error
after the fire, and after the settlement between Hooper and
Coale, became convinced that the policies of the Peabody and
Atlantic companies covered only the same lot of one hundred
and ten bales, and settled with these companies on that basis.
It was hot sought at the trial to bind the plaintiff below by
that settlement; but the question, whether one hundred and
ten bales were uncovered by specific policies or not, was left as
an open one to the jury for their decision.
At the trial, the above-mentioned facts having been all
proved, and the defehdant in error having proved that Frank
P. Clark wag a lawydr by profession ; that he had occupied him-self in making insurance adjustments, as a specialty; and that,
in 1870, he had devoted himself principally to that business, offered as part of his evidence several statements or adjustments
made by him as illustrations of the results arrived at upon the
different theories of adjustment therein adopted. The plaintiff
in error objected to their admission in evidence; but the court
overruled the'objection, and allowed them to go to the jury, only
for the purpose of assisting them -in calculating the amount of
liability of the plaintiff, upon the several hypotheses of facts
stated in said calculations, with the express instruction, that
they were admitted only as calculations to aid the jury, and
were in no way binding on them. To this ruling the plaintiff
in error excepted.
The plaintiff in error afterwards offered in evidence a letter,
which was admitted to be part of a negotiation for a compromise; offering to read only a portion of it, if the whole was
objected to. The defendant in error objected to the reading
of any part of it. The objection was sustained, and the plaintiff in error excepted.
The plaintiff below thereupon submitted several prayers to
the court for instruction to the jury, which -said prayers were
refused, except the fifth, which was as follows :5th, If the jury shall find, from the evidence, that Hooper,
the president of the plaintiff, at the time of receiving from the
defendant -the moneys receipted for on the said policy for
the losses mentioned therein, was requested by Coale, the
defendant's agent, to surrender the said policy, but refused to

Oct. 1876.]

HOME INS. Co. v. BALT. WAREHOUSE CO.

535

do so, and notified Coale that he retained the said policy in
order to assert, against the defendant thereafter, any claims
thereunder not then known to him, but which might thereafter
appear; and that said Coale accordingly left said policy in the
hands of Hooper, and wrote and sighed the receipt written
thereupon, and altered the usual receipt of the company to
conform thereto in the manner testified to by said Coale, and
sent to the defendant a copy of said receipt as altered, with the
memorandum thereon proven by said Coale;
And if the jury shall further find, that said Coale did not, nor
did the defendant, make any objection to the retention of said
policy by said Hooper, for the purpose aforesaid, but, on the
contrary, assented thereto, and that said Coale simply denied
and protested that the defendant was not liable, and would not
and did not recognize or concede its liability under the terms
of said policy for any other losses than those paid and receipted
for as aforesaid;
And shall further find, that the agreements for the waiver of
the thirteenth condition of said policy, which have been given
in evidence, were executed by the defendant, for the purpose of
giving to the plaintiff a continuing right to assert by suit its
claims reserved by Hooper, as aforesaid, pending litigation in
the State courts, involving the legal principles on which the
respective rights of the parties under said policy might depend;
and that no suggestion or intimation of any defence to said
claims on the ground of defect or failure of preliminary proofor notice under the ninth condition of insurance, was made by
defendant or its said agent, until a short time before the institution of this suit, and after ineffectual efforts between the
parties to settle the claims of the plaintiff under said policy
upon their merits, thenThe jury are entitled, from such facts, with the other facts
in the case, to find that the defendant waived the compliance
by the plaintiff as to such reserved claims, with the fifteenth
paragraph of the ninth of the conditions of insurance attached
to the policy.
And if the jury find such waiver as aforesaid, then the failare
to offer such preliminary proof is no bar to the plaintiff's right
to recover in this suit.

536

Ho IE INS.

Co. v.

BALT. WAREHOUSE

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

The defendant below, at the same time, presented the following seven prayers, and prayed the court to give to the jury the
several instructions therein asked for: 1. The policies obtained by Hough, Clendening, & Co. upon
their cotton, and made payable to the Baltimore Warehouse
Company, being for a different assured, were upon a different
interest from that covered by the policy now in suit; and the
latter is not bound to contribute to any losses for which the
former ore liable.
2. If the jury find, that, in the course of dealing -between the
Baltimore Warehouse Company and its dep6sitors, the latter,
before receiving advances upon goods stored, were required to
insure the same to an amount not less than-the sun advanced,
and that for the purpose of securing the said warehouse company the policies in such cases were made payable to the
warehouse company, and7 were delivered to the'm at the time of
procuring such advances; and shall further find, that the two
policies of o6,000 each, issued on the twenty-fourth day of May,
1870, by the Atlantic and Peabody Insurance Companies, were
obtained by Hough, Clendening, & Co., with, knowledge on
the part of said companies that they were intended to secure
the warehouse company for advances, and that Hough, Clendening, & Co. then took them to the said warehouse company, and that the latter received them without notice to the
said warehouse company of the circumstances under which
they were obtained ; and that, upon the faith thereof, the said
warehouse company, their officers believing that each policy
insured the full quantity mentioned in the same, and that the
two together covered two hundred and twenty bales, thereupon advanced to Hough, Clendening, & Co. a sum of money
larger than would have been advanced but for the existence of
both said policies, and the belief that they were independent of
then the said Atlantic and Peabody companies
one
were another,
respectively bound as between them and the said
warehouse company by the representations contained in the respective
policies, and could not limit their responsibility to a joint responsibility for one hundred and ten bales-of cotton; but were
each liable, as separate insurers, to the amount of one hundred
and ten bales.

Oct. 1876.]

Ho-ME Ixs. Co. v. BALT. WAREHOUSE Co.

537

3. If the jury shall find from the evidence, that, from the time
of the fire of July 18, 1870, until after the 25th of June, 1872,
no claim or demand was made by the plaintiff on the defendant
for any loss by reason of said fire, except for the twenty-four
bales of cotton mentioned in the written proofs and settlement off~red in evidence, and for an alleged liability of the defendant, under the policy declared on, for contribution with
the special policies set forth in the agreement filed in this case,
then there is no evidence before the jury from which they
can infer a waiver of preliminary proof, on the part of the.
defendant, in regard to any other claim under the policy declared on, except the claim for contribution with the said
special policies.
4. By the ninth condition of the policy upon which this suit
is brought, it was made necessary for the insured, after the
fire, forthwith to give notice of their loss to the defendant, and
as soon as possible thereafter to deliver as particular an account
of their loss and damage as the nature of the case admitted of,
and to accompany the same with proof as therein provided;
and no acts or declarations of the agent, Coale, subsequent to
the 10th of October, 1870, are admissible to show waiver by
the, defendant of said condition.
5. In determining the question, whether there has been a
waiver of preliminary proof, the jury cannot consider declarations of the defendant's agent, Coale, made to parties other
than the officers or agents of defendant, denying the defendant's
liability to the plaintiff for any loss whatever beyond that of
the twenty-four bales of cotton which were included in the
settlement offered in evidence.
6. There is no evidence in this case of any waiver, on the
part of the defendant or of its agent, in such manner as to bind
them, of notice of loss and preliminary proof as to the one
hundred and ten bales of cotton alleged to have been left without specified insurance by reason of the Atlantic and Peabody
policies of $6,000 -being upon the same one hundred and ten
bales.
7. That, if the jury shall find from the evidence and under
the instructions of the court that, at the time of the fire of
July 18, 1870, there were one hundred and ten bales of cotton

HOME INS. Co. v. BALT. WAREHOUSE CO.

[Sup. Ct.

deposited by Hough, Clendening, & Co. in the warehouse of the
plaintiff, which were not covered by any of the special policies
tajen out by said Hough, Clendening, & Co., and made payable
to plaintiff, and that the plaintiff had notified the said Hough,
r-Tlendening, & Co. that they themselves must insure all cotton
'eposited by them; and if the jury shall find that there was,
on the part of the defendant, a waiver of preliminary proof in
regard to the loss on said'one hundred and ten bales, and that
the plaintiff is entitled to recover on account of said loss, - then
the amount the said plaintiff is entitled to recover on account
of said one hundred and ten bales should be two-thirds of
plaintiff's own loss by reason of the damage of said bales by
said fire; and, in order to ascertain the plaintiff's own loss on
said one hundred and ten bales, the salvage thereon received
by the plaintiff, and the amount due on all the said special
policies, should be deducted from the total amount advanced by
the plaintiff to the said Hough, Clendening, & Co.
The court rejected all of said prayers of the defendant, excepting the fifth, and instructed the jury as follows :If the jury shall find, from the evidence in this case, that, at
the time of the fire of July 18, 1870, there were one hundred
and ten bales "of cotton in the warehouse of plaintiff, deposited
by Hough, Clendening, & Co., which were not covered by any
of the special'policies -taken out by said depositors; and that
on said one hundred and ten bales the plaintiff had made advances, which were unpaid at the time of the fire; and shall
further find for the plaintiff as to the waiver of preliminary
proof, under the fifth prayer of the plaintiff, which is granted
by the court, - then the plaintiff is entitled to recover in this
action for the two-thirds of all loss or damage to said one hundred and ten bale5, to the extent of its advances as aforesaid.
And if the jury shall find, from the evidence, that there was
other cotton deposited by depositors in plaintiff's warehouse,
and which was covered by special policies of insurance given in
evidenc6 in this case, and upon which plaintiff had made
advances, -then the said plaintiff is entitled to recover also for
the two-thirds of all loss or damage to said cotton, to the extent
of its advances on the same, less the amount which the jury
may find to be due from said special policies made payable to

Oct. 1876.]

HomE INs. Co. v. BALT. WApmOUSE Co.

539

the said plaintiff, each of said special policies contributing to
the loss on the cotton insured by it with the geneial policies
held by the plaintiff.
The defendant thereupon excepted to the rejection by the
court of its first, second. third, fourth, sixth, and seventh
prayers, and to the granting of the fifth prayer of the plaintiff, and to the instruction given to the jury in accordance therewith, and also to the court's instructions, and severally to each
proposition in said instruction contained.
The jury found a verdict for the plaintiff below for $16,585.73,
and judgment was rendered thereon; whereupon the defendan
below brought the case here, and assigns for error,1st, The admission of the statements or adjustments of the
witness Clark.
2d, The refusal to admit the.letter from Barney to Coale.
3d, The admission of the record of the suit of Hough, Clendening, & Co. v. People's ins. Co.
4th, The granting of plaintiff's fifth prayer.
5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, The rejection of the defendant's
second, third, fourth, sixth, and seventh prayers.11th and 12th, The first and second paragraph of the charge
to the jury, as given.
Mr. A. W. Ahahelen and Mr. Thomas D)onaldson for the plaintiff in error.
The plaintiff in error is not bound to contribute to the payment of losses for which the policies of Hough, Clendening, &
Co. are liable. They were for a different assured, and upon a
different interest There was, therefore, no double insurance.
The memorandum upon their face, the "loss, if any, payable
to the Baltimore Warehouse Company," does not affect the
principle; but is simply " a mode of appoiiting that the loss
of the party assured shall be paid by the company to such third
person." Bates v. Equitable Ins. Co., 10 Wall. 33; Grovesnor
v. Atlantic Fire Ins. Co., 17 N. Y. 391; Hale v. Meeh. Mut.
Fire Ins. Co., 6 Gray, 172; -Fogg v. llliddlesex 31lanuf. Co.,
10 Cush. 346; Afacomber v. Camzbridge iiut. Ins. Co., 8 id: 135;
Young v. Eagle Fire Ins. Co., 14 Gray, 153; State Mut. -Fire
Ins. Co. v. Roberts, 81 Penn. 438; Loringq v.: Mfanuf. Ins. Co.,
'8 Gray, 28; Woodbury Savfigs Ban/c v. Charter Oak Ins. Co.,

540

HOME INS. CO. v. BALT. WAREHOUSE CO.

[Sup. Ct.

29 Conn. 374; Turner v. Quincy 11fut. Fire Ins. Co., 109 Mass.
568; Tallman v. Atlantic F. & Il. Ins. Co., 29 How. Pr. 71.
The decision of the Court of Appeals of Maryland in Rough,
Uendening, & Co. v. People's Ins. Co., 36 -Md. 398, cannot bind
the plaintiff in error, which was in no sense a party to that
case, nor can it affect .the decision of this court in the present suit. 1 Greenl. Ev., sect. 523; Garpenterv. Prov. ,. W1as/i.
Ins. Co., 16 Pet. 495, 511.
The circumstance that that court, long after this contract
was entered into and the occurrence of the loss, put an erroneous construction on another contract between other parties, cannot alter the meaning of this. Martineau v. Kitching, L. R.
7 Q. B. 436 ; lorth Brit. Ins. Co. v. iA1offatt, L. R. 7 C. P. 25;
Lee v. Adsit, 37 N. Y. 78.
The respective policies of the Atlantic and Peabody Insurance Companies each appearing to be on one hundred and ten
bales of cotton, without indicating any identity of subject-matter, and there being in the warehouse two distinct lots to which
they were respectively applicable, and having been accepted
and acted upon by the warehouse company as covering distinct
lots, on both of which it made advances, the former companies
knowing that the policies were made to cover-advances,- it
was not competent for them to contradict the representations
contained in their respective policies. Each of said companies
was liable, as a separate insurer, to the amount of one hundred
and ten bales.
No suggestion of a claim for a loss on one hundred and ten
bales, as uninsured by any particular policy of any depositor,
having been made until after the lapse of some two years from
the time of the loss, there was no evidence from which the jury
could infer any waiver of preliminary proof in regard to said
one hundred and ten bales.
The declarations of the agent,. made after the lapse of the
period within which preliminary proof should have been made,
could not have the effect of a waiver of such proof as against
the company. I Tayl. Ev., sects. 539, 540.
The.plaintiff's fifth prayer, which was granted, is liable to
special objection, because the facts selected, if found by the
jury, did not authorize a finding of a waiver of preliminary

Oct. 1876.]

HomE INS. Co. v. BALT. WAREHOUSE 00.

541

proof, - certainly not as to all the claims of loss now made, and
not as we suppose to any of them; and because it was improper
to leave to the jury the construction of the written agreements
referred to, and the determination of their effect.
The statements of calculations and adjustments made by the
witness Clark, and offered in evidence,- were not proper evidence to go to the jury; being both irrelevant and calculated
to mislead it.
The part of Barney's letter offered in evidence was competent, and should have been admitted. A statement accompanying an offer of compromise, even if intended as an inducement
to a compromise, is admissible. Seldner v. Smith, 40 Md. 602.
iAr. John H. Thomas, contra.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.

The most important question in this case relates to the proper
construction of the defendants' policy of insurance. It is contended on their behalf that it covered only the warehouse company's interest in the goods contained in the warehouse. If this
is the true meaning of the contract, the instruction given by the
Circuit Court to the jury was erroneous. If, on the other hand,
the policy covered the merchandise itself, ahd not merely the
interest which the warehouse company had therein, there is
no just ground of complaint of the charge of the circuit judge.
Blanket and floating policies are sometimes issued to factors or
to warehousemen, intended only to cover margins uninsured by
other p'licies, or to cover nothing more than the limited interest which the factor or warehouseman may have in the property which he'has in charge. In. those cases, as in all others,
the subject of the insurance, its nature and its extent, are to be
ascertained from the words of the contract which the parties
have made. It is as true of policies 6f insurance as it is of
other contradts, that, except when the language is ambiguous,
the intention of the parties is to be gathered from the policies
alone. There are cases in which resort may be had to parol
evidence to ascertain the subject insured; but they are cases of
latent ambiguity. So, in the' construction of other contracts,
parol evidence is admissible to explain such' ambiguities. In
this paricular, the rule for the construction of all written con-

542

HoirE INS. Co. v. BALT. WAREHOUSE CO.

[Sup. Ct.

tracts is the same. Lord Mansfield said long ago that courts
are always reluctant to go out of a policy for evidence respecting its meaning. Loraine v. Tomlinson, Doug. 564. And so
are the authorities generally. Astor v. Union Ins. Co., 7 Cow.
202 ; iurray,v. Hatch, 6 'ass. 465 ; Levy v. Merrill, 4 Greenl.
480; Baltimore Fire Ins. Co. v. Loney, 20 Md. 36; Arnould
on Ins. 1316, 1317, and notes; 2 Greenl. on Ev. 377. It
is no exception to the rule, that, when a policy is taken out
expressly "for or on account of the owner" of the subject
insured, or "on account of whomsoever it may concern," evidence beyond the policy is received to show who are the owners or who were intended to be insured thereby. In such
cases, the words of the policy fail to designate the real party
to the contract, and, therefore, unless resort is had to extrinsic evidence, there is no contract at all. Finney v. Bedford
Ins. Co., 8 Mlet. 348.
Turning, then, to the policy issued to the plaintiff below, and
construing it by the language used, the intention of the parties
is plainly exhibited. Its words are, The Home Insurance Company "insure Baltimore Warehouse Company against loss or
damage by fire, to the amount of $20,000, on merchandise hazardous or extra-hazardous, their own or held by them in trust,
or in which they have an interest or liability, contained in" a
certain described warehouse. There is nothing ambiguous in
this description of the subject insured. It is as broad as possible. The subject was merchandise stored or contained in a
warehouse. It was not merely an interest in that merchandise.
The merchandise of the warehouse company, owned by them,
was covered, if any they had. So was any merchandise in the
warehouse in which they had an interest or liability. And so
was any merchandise which they held in trust. The description of the subject must be entirely changed before it can be
held to mean what the insurers now contend it means. If, as
they claim, only the interest which the warehouse company had
in the merchandise deposited in their warehouse was intended
to be insured, why was that interest described as the merchandise itself ? Why not as the assured's interest in it? Throughout the policy, wherever the subject intended to be insured is
spoken of, it is described, not as a partial interest, not as a

Oct. 1876.]

HomE INs. Co. v. BALT. WAREHOUSE CO.

543

mere lien for advances and charges upon the goods held in
storage, but as the property itself, whatever might be the existing rights to it. Thus the insurance company covenanted to
make good to the assured all such loss or damage, not exceeding the sum insured, as should happen by fire "to the property
as above specified." What that specification was, we have seen.
The policy also contained a provision that, in case of fire, the
"property" destroyed might be replaced by similar "property" of equal value and goodness. There are other like designations. Nowhere is any less interest in the goods insured
alltded to than the entire ownership. The words of the policy
are not satisfied if their import be restrained, as the plaintiff in
error seeks to confine it. The parties to whom the policy was
issued were warehouse-keepers, receiving from various persons
cotton and other merchandise on deposit. They were empowered by their charter to receive bailments and to make charges
against the bailors for handling, labor, and custody. They
were also authorized to make advances upon the goods deposited with them, and their charges, expenses, advances, and
commissions were made liens upon the property. They had,
therefore, an interest in the merchandise deposited with them,
which they might have caused to be specifically insured. It
was also at their option to obtain insurance upon the entire
interest in the merchandise, whether held by them or by the
depositors. Nothing in their charter forbids such insurance.
It is undoubtedly the law that wl'arfingers, warehousemen, and
commission-merchants, having goods in their possession, may
insure them in their own names, and in case of loss may recover
the full amount of insurance, for the satisfaction of their own
claims first, and hold the residue for the owners. Waters v.
Monarch Assur. Co., 5 Ell. & B1. 870; London and North-western Railway Co. v. Glyn, 1 Ell. & Ell. Q. B. 652; DeForest v.
Fulton Ins. Co., 1 Hall, 136; Siter v. Moritz, 13 Penn. St. 219.
Such insurance is not unusual, even when not ordered by the
owners of goods, and when so made it inures to their benefit.
And such insurance, we must hold, the warehouse company
sought and obtained by the policy of the plaintiff in error.
The words "merchandise held in trust" aptly describe the
property of the depositors. The warehouse company held mer-

544

IorE INS.

Co. v.

BALT. WAREHOUSE Co.

[Sup. Ct.

chandise in trust for their customers, not, it is true, as technical trustees, but as trustees in the sense that the goods had
been entrusted to them. They were not empowered by their
charter to hold property under technical trusts cognizable only
in equity. Hence, when they sought insurance of merchandise
held by them in trust, it must have been intended of such as
they held in trust, - in a' mercantile sense, goods entrusted
to them by the legal owners. That such is the meaning of the
words as used in this policy we cannot doubt. And such has
been held by courts of the highest authority to be the meaning
of similar words in fire policies. In Waters v. iIfonarchFire and
Life Assurance Company, above cited, the policy was issued to
persons described as corn and flour factors, who were, in fact,
flour-merchants, warehousemen, and wharfingers. It was on
goods in their warehouses, and on goods in trust or on commission therein. The assured had in their warehouses goods
belonging to their customers, deposited with them as warehouse-keepers, and on which they had a lien for charges for
cartage and warehouse rent, but no further interest of their
own. They made no charge to the custoner for insurance, nor
was the customer informed of the existence of the policy. It
was ruled that the goods were held in trust, within the meaning of the policy; and, there having been a destruction by fire,
that the assured were entitled to recover their entire value,
applying so much as necessary to cover their own interest, and
holding the remainder as trustees for the owners. Lord Chief
Justice Campbell said, "It was not intended to limit the policy
to the personal interest of the plaintiff, for in this and all other
floating policies the promise is to make good the damage to
the goods." A similar ruling was made in the London and
North-western Railway Co. v. Glyn, supra. There the plaintiffs,
who were common carriers, had obtained insurance of goods
against fire, in a company of which the 'defendant was treasurer. The policy declared £15,000 to be insured "on goods
their (the plaintiffs') own and in trust as carriers" in a certain
warehouse, and it was stipulated that the company were to be
liable to make good to the "assured" all loss which they, "the
assured," should suffer on the property therein particularized.
In an 'action on the policy, it was held, that, to the extent of

Oct. 1876.]

HOME INS. Co. v. BALT. WAREHOUSE CO.

545

£15,000, the whole value of the goods in the warehouse in the
plaintiffs' possession was insured by it, and not merely their
interest in the goods ; and that the plaintiffs would be regarded
as trustees for. the owners of the amount thus recovered, after
deducting their charges as carriers.
In opposition to this construction of the policy now before us,
our attention has been called by the plaintiffs in error to a provision in the charter of the -warehouse company, and to the
notice accompanying the receipts they gave for the merchandise delivered to them in storage. The tenth section of their
bharter, after requiring that the receipts, warrants, or warehouse certificates issued by the corporation for goods, wares, and
merchandise in their possession, should be signed by the president or vice-president and secretary, and attested by the corporate seal, after requiring that copies should be registered, and
declaring that they should be transferable by indorsement, enacted that every such receipt, warrant, or warehouse certificate
should contain on its face a notice that the property mentioned
therein was held by the corporation as bailees only, and was not
insured by the corporation. Accordingly, all the warehouse receipts did contain such notices. But we are unable to perceive
how these facts can have any bearing on the proper construction of the policy. The company was not prohibited by its
charter from obtaining insurance to their full value of the goods
left with them in bailment. At most, the requirement of the
charter was that they should not themselves become insurers.
And the notice required to be given to the bailors meant no
more than that neither the receiving of the goods nor the certificate of receipt amounted to a contract of insurance. It would
be straining the language of the notice most unwarrantably,
were we to treat it as amounting to an engagement that the
company would not obtain insurance of the property from some
corporation authorized to insure.
Without purs.uing this discussion further, we have said enough
to vindicate our opinion that the policy upon which this suit
was brought covered the merchandise held by the warehouse
company on storage, and not merely the interest of the bailees
in that property. It follows, necessarily, 'that there was double
insurance. The policy issued to the warehouse company, and
VOL. 1i.

35

546

HoME INS. Co. v. BALT. WAREHOUSE CO.

[Sup. Ct.

those obtained by the depositors of the merchandise, covered the
same property, and they were for the benefit of the same owners. The persons assured were the same; for if the policies
taken out by -lough, Clendening, & Co. were upon their goods,
notwithstanding the memorandum that the loss, if any, was
payable to the Baltimore Warehouse Company, as may be
conceded was the case, so -was the policy now in suit. The
insurers are liable, therefore, prb rata, each contributing proportionately. It follows that the plaintiffs in error have no
reason to complain of the refusal of the court below to affirm
their first and seventh points, and none to complain of the instructions given to the jury respecting the extent to which the
plaintiffs were entitled to recover, if they could recover at all.
The next question presented by the record, which we propose
to consider, is raised by the fourth, the seventh, eighth, and the
ninth assignments of error. Those assignments complain of the
affirmance of the plaintiffs' fifth point, and of the disaffirmance
of the defendants' third, fourth, and sixth. Beyond doubt it
was a question for the jury whether furnishing preliminary
proof of loss was waived by the defendants or by their authorized agent, if there was any evidence of waiver to be submitted
to them. And we think there was such evidence. The defendants were an insurance company of the State of New York.
By the act of the Maryland legislature, which empowered them
to do business in Maryland, the agent of the company was required to have authority "from the parent office or offices to
settle -losses, without the interference of the officer or officers of
the said parent office or offices." Mr. Coale was their agent,
and clothed with such authority. He could, therefore, waive
the presentation of preliminary proofs, and his waiver was binding on his principals.. Franklin Fire Ins. Co. v. Chicago Ice
Co., 36 Md. 102. A waiver m.,y be proved indirectly by circumstances as well as by direct testimony. If, after the time
for presenting preliminary proofs had gone by, Mr. Coale acted
and spoke as if they had been presented in season; if, while
resisting the claim upon his company, he placed his objections
entirely upon other grounds, and never alluded to any failure
of the plaintiffs to exhibit preliminary proofs until those other
grounds were apparently swept away; if, after making a payment

Oct. 1876.]

HtoIE

INS. 'CO. v. BALT. WAREHOUSE CO.

547

for a loss of twenty-four bales of cotton, and after be was notified
that the policy would be retained in order to assert afterwards
other claims upon it, he expressly waived another one of its
conditions, for the purpose of giving to the plaintiffs a continuing right to bring a suit, - the jury might well have inferred
that the condition of giving notice of the loss and making preliminary proof had been waived. Such conduct on his part was
consistent with a conclusion that such a waiver had been made.
It is difficult to account for it, if there had been none. Yet
all this evidence, and more, was before the jury. These assignments of error, therefore, cannot be sustained.
The sixth assignment of error requires but a single remark.
We do not see that the evidence warranted the hypothesis upon
which the defendants' second prayer was based; but if it did,
it would be impertinent to the case. If the plaintiffs were mistaken in regard to their rights as against other insurers, such a
mistake cannot affect their claim on the defendants' policy.
The tenth assignment has already been shown to be unfounded, by what we have heretofore said.
It remains only to notice some rulings of the Circuit Court
in respect to offers of evidence. The court admitted in evidence, notwithstanding objection by the defendants, several
statements or plans of adjustment of the loss, made by an expert, and founded upon different theories of the law. They
were not admitted as evidence of the facts stated in them, or as
obligatory upon the jury, but only for the purpose of assisting
the jury in calculating the amount of liability of the defendants
upon the several hypotheses of fact stated in them, and stated
only hypothetically. It is impossible that the defendants could
have been injured by their reception, and without some such
assistance no intelligent verdict could have been rendered. The
jury was left free to accept either hypothesis, or reject them all.
We think there was no error in admitting the calculations.
Nor was there error in receiving the record of the suit
of Hfough, Clendening, & Co. v. People's Ins. Co., in the Maryland courts, under the circumstances of the ease. The present
parties had agreed to extend the time within which this suit
might be brought until the decision of the questions involved
in the suit of Hough, Clendening, & Co. Tlie record of that

548

STANTON ET AL. V. E

BREY, ADMINISTRATOR.

[Sup. Ct.

suit, therefore, was evidence to show its termination. But if
not, it was merely irrelevant, and it is not shown that it tended
in the least to mislead the jury. A judgment is not to be reversed because evidence was admitted at the trial which could
have had no bearing upon the issue, unless it appears that it
was misleading in its tendency.
The only remaining assignment of error is that the Circuit
Court would not receive in.evidence any part of a letter written
by the president of the warehouse company to Mr. Coale, the
defendants' agent. The letter was an offer of compromise, and
as such, upon well-recognized principles, it was inadmissible.
And it contains no statement which can be separated from the
offer and convey the idea which was in the writer's mind. The
court was clearly right in rejecting it.
Judgment affirmed.
STANrTON ET AL. V. EMI.BREY, ADIMINISTRATOR.
1. Pleading over to a declaration adjudged good on demurrer is a waiver of tle
demurrer.
2. The pendency of a prior suit in a State court is not a bar to a suit in a circuit court of the United States, or in the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, by the same plaintiff against the same defendant for the same
cause of action.
S. Writs of error from this court to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia are governed by the same rules and regulations as are those to the circuit courts. When, therefore,'the record shows that an exception was taken
and reserved at the trial, it -is not necessary that the bill of exceptions be
drawn out in form, and signed or sealed by the judge, before the jury retires;
but it may be so signed or sealed at a later period ; and, when filed nunc
pro tunc, brings the case within the settled practice of courts of error.
4. An agreement to pay a contingent compensation for professional services of
a legitimate character, in prosecuting a claim against the United States
pending in one of the executive departments, is not in violation of law or
public policy.
5. Where the amount of compensation to be paid was not fixed, evidence of what
is ordinarily charged by attorneys-at-law in cases of the same character is
admissible.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
On the 13th of January, 1872, the plaintiff below, administrator of Robert- J. Atkinson, filed his declaration, claiming
from the defendants -$10,000 with interest, from May 1, 1871,
for services alleged to have been performed by the deceased in

