Oct. 1876,]

DODGE V. FREEDMAN'S SAV.

& TRUST Co.

379

pockets of varying lengths are to be stopped or closed in the
process of weaving. Conclusive support to that proposition is
found in the fact that it became necessary for the infringers to
experiment for a long time before they could imitate the patented product.

DODGE ET AL. v. FREEDAAN'S SAVINGS AND TRUST

COMPANY.

1. Declarations made by the holder of a promissory note or of a chattel, while he
held it, are not admissible in evidence in a suit upon or in relation to it by
a subsequent owner.
2. The declarations of a party when in possession .of land -are, as against those
claiming under him, competent evidence to show the character of his possession, and the title by which he held it, but not to sustain or destroy the
record title.
3. In law, a person with whom a note is deposited for collection is the agent of
the holder, and not of the maker. The maker has no interest in it, except
to pay, the note. Failing to do this, he leaves it to be-dealt with as others
interested may choose.
4. Where a note, deposited in bank for collection by its owner, was paid by a
person not a party thereto, with the intention of having it remain as an
existing security, and tIe money so paid was received by the owner of the
note,-I eld, that such person thereby became the purchaser of the note,
the negotiability of which remilins after as before maturity, subject to the
equities between the parties.

from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The Freedman's Savings and Trust Company, on the seventeenth day of May, 1873, exhibited its bill of complaint in the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, alleging that it
owned and held certain unpaid and overdue promissory notes
made by the defendant Dodge, and that certain real estate in
the city of Georgetown, which had been conveyed in trust to
the defendants Jones and Darneille, to secure the payment of
said notes. bad been unlawfully and fraudulently released from
the operation of the deed of trust, and had been conveyed by
defendant Dodge to the defendant Darneille, who had conveyed
it to the defendant Dunlop, in trust for the benefit of the wife
of the defendant Darneille.
The bill prays for the cancellation of the release, and also of
the other conveyances; for a sale of all the property covered
APPEAL

380

DODGE v. FREEDMAN'S SAV. & TRusT Co.

[Sup. Ct.

by the original trust deed; for the appEcatign of the proceeds
to the payment of the notes; for damages, if any should be
found, against Jones and Darneille; for jdqgment against Dodge
for any balance of said notes remaining unpaid; and for general
relief.
The defendant Dodge answered, admitting the making bf the
notes, and of the deed of trusf to secure them, but insisted that
the notes had been paid an& extinguished through an arrangement between him and William S. Huntington for the purchase
of one of the pieces of property included in the trust, and that
the complainant obtained the notes after they were due and
had been paid.
The other defendants made no defence, and a decree pro
confesso was taken against all of them.
The case was heard upon the pleadings and evidenee, and
the court, at special term, dismissed the bill. This decree was,
on an appeal to the general term, reversed, and a decree entered
according to the prayet of the bill. The case is here on appeal
by the defendants from that decree.
The defunce rests entirely Ulon the allegation that the notes
made by Dodge, in January, 1869, were paid in January, 1870.
Mr. Jfalter S. Cox for the appellants.
The appellee acquired the notes after maturity, and when they
had been paid. A deposit for collection means for payment.
It does not authorize the bank to assign, but simply to receive
a payment which extinguishes the note. The notices sent out
by the bank are a demand for payment.. No one had a right
to take an assignment of the notes without the consent of the
holders. When:, therefore, some one goes and tacitly Pays the
money into bank when due, and takes up the notes, the legal
effect is a payment and extinguishment, whether it be by the
maker or a stranger. Even if done at the request of the maker,
if there be no further agreement, it is none the less a payment,
and gives only a right of action for money paid, laid out, and
expended. Burr v. Smith, 21 Barb. 262; Bastman v. Plumer,
32 N. I. 238; Cook v. -Lister,13 C. B. 594.
The only doubt ever entertained was, whether the debtor's
authority or ratification was necessary. There can be no doubt
of such authority in the present case.

Oct. 1876.]

DODGE V. FREEDMIAN'S SAV.

&

TRUST CO.

381

Again: as the bank had no authority to transfer the notes,
a person dealing with it must be presumed to have knowledge
of that fact, and that h6 would acquire no title by the transfer.
This infirmity of title would follow the notes into the hands of
any one else taking after maturity. Byles on Bills, p. 151;
Texas v. White, 7 Wall. 700.
But, besides, in this case, the notes were taken by the appellee from or through Huntington. He paid them under an
express contract to do so, and transferred them after that contract had been performed.
It is clear that the appellee did not give the money directly
to the holders of the notes. Their actuary gave one check
for the entire sum, much larger than any one note. It must
have been given first to some third person, who either had
paid, or thereupon paid, the notes. That person clearly was
Huntington.
The notes, taken when overdue, were taken subject to all
defences which Dodge might have made against the holders to
whom. they were paid, or against Huntington, who held them
afterwards. Story on Promissory Notes, sect. 190; Andrews v.
Pond et al., 13 Pet. 65; Powler v. Brantley, 14 id. 318.
01fr. Enoch Totten for the appellee.
Dodge, the maker of the notes, has never paid a dollar on
account thereof. He cannot now be heard to say that the notes
were extinguished by the transaction between Huntington and
the appellee. Gernon v. McUan, 23 La. Ann. 84.
The notes cannot be held to be paid and extinguished. The
Trust Company surely did not intend to pay them. The fact
that it took them into possession, and held them, shows this was
not its intei-tion. It acted in good faith.
When money is paid on account of notes- by a third party
not liable on them, the notes will be extinguished or not, according to the intention of the party paying. Harbeck v. Vanderbilt,
20 N. Y. 395. Payment to a bank of notes held by it for, collection, by one not liable on the notes, does not amount to an
extinguishment of them. Byles on Bills, 175; PacificBank
v. Mitchell, 9 M
vet. 297; Deacon v. Stodhart, 2 M. & Gr. 317;
Jones v. Broadhurst, 9 M., Gr. & Sc. 173.
Huntington did not pay out &aymoney whatever; and, if he

382

DODGE V. FREEDMAN'S SAV. & TRUST CO.

[Sup. Ct.

ever had the notes in his possession, he held them only as
cashier of the bank, or as agent of the Trust Company.
If these notes, instead of being transferred to the possession
of the Trust Company, had been retained by the respective
holders, and actions at law had been by them instituted thereon
against Dodge, notwithstanding the payment of the amount due
on them by the Trust Company, a plea of satisfaction by the
Trust Company, interposed on behalf of the defendant Dodge,
would have been bad on demurrer.
Clow v. Borst, 6 Johns. 37;
-Daniels v. Hollenbeck, 19 Wend. 408; Jones v. Broadhurst,
9 M., Gr. & Sc. 173.
MR. JUsTI E HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
It is conceded in the pleadings that Dodge made the notes
in question; that the property described in the trust deed was
conveyed to Jones and Darneille to secure their payment; that
the notes were just debts, and the trust deed a valid security
for their payment. Why, then, should not the security of the
trust deed remain to the holder of the notes? The answer
is, that the ifotes have been paid; therefore the trust deed h'as
discharged its office, and the security by law reverts to or is
held for the benefit of its original owner. The principle of
law involved in this proposition is too plain to justify discussion, and hence it is that the defence, which seeks to cancel
this security, rests upon the sole ground that the notes have
been paid.
A portion of the evidence contained in the bill of exceptions
consists of the declarations made by William S. Huntington.
Evidence of this character was given by each party, and admitted, notwithstanding the objection of the other. 'o principle
can be found to justify the admission of this evidence. It has
long been settled that the declarations made by the holder of achattel or promissory note, while he held it, are not competent
evidence.in a suit upon it, or in relation to it, by a subsequent
owner. This was settled in the State of New York in the case
of Paige v. Cagwin, 7 "Hill, 361, and is now addmitted to be
sound doatrine; dud that the party is since deceased makes no
difference (Beach v. Wise, 1 Hill, 612) ; or that the transfer is
made after maturity (Paige v. Cagwin, supra). The same is

Oct. 1876.]

DODGE v. FREEDM1AN'S SAY. & TRUST CO.

383

true of the declarations of a mortgagee (.Earl v. Clute, 2 Abb.
Ct. App. Dec. 1); or of the assignor of a judgment (16 N. Y.
497) ; or of an indorser (Anthon's N. P. 141) ; or of a judgment
debtor (1 Denio, 202). Assuming that Huntington was the
owner or holder of these notes, his declarations are not thereby
made competent evidence.
Nor can these declarations be admitted in evidence, on the
theory that Huntington was the owner of -the real estate
described in the trust deed, and in its actual'possession. He
never had a legal title, but occupied one of the houses described in the trust deed, a portion of the time as a tenant,
paying rent, and during a subsequent period, as it is claimed,
under a verbal agreement to purchase it from Dodge by paying
the notes in question, paying interest on the notes instead
of rent.
The declarations of a party in possession of land are competent evidence: 1st, As against those claiming the land under
him. Warrivg v. Warren, 1 Johns. 340; Jackson v. Cale, 10 id.
377. The Fieedman's Bank claim nothing under Huntington.
They insist that they are the legal holders of the notes, and as
such are entitled to avail themselves of the security given for
their payment. 2d, Such declarations are competent only to
show the character of the possession of the person making
them, and by what title he holds, but not to sustain or to
destroy the record title. Pitts v. Wilder, 1 N. Y. 525; Gibney'
v. i1farchay, 34 id. 301; Jackson v. Miller, 6 Cowen, 751;
Jackson v. lfce'ey, 15 J. R. 234. To show that the party
went into possession under the lessors is a common instance
of the admissibility of such declarations. Jackson v. Dobbin,
3 Johns. 223.
Conceding, therefore, that Huntington was in possession of
the premises, his declarations are competent only to show the
character in which he claimed, as that of tenant under a lease,
or tenant by virtue of an executory contract to purchase. His
declarations as to the ownership or payment of the notes are
incompetent upon every principle, and must be laid out of view
in determining the case.
Upon the reihaining evidence the question stands in this
wise: The Freedman's Bank establishes its title to the notes

DODGE v. FREEDMAN'S SAV. & TRUST Co.

[Sup. Ct.

by the production of the notes, by proof that it purchased
them by giving its check for $13,786.50, the full amount of
principal and interest due on the notes,, dated Jan. 24, 1870,
and that it has held them from that time to the present. That
the bank took the notes upon an intended purchase; that it
received interest upon them. in January, 1871, and again in
January, 1872, is clearly proved. Eaton, the actuary of the
bank, by whom the check was drawn, is dead. Huntington,
with Whom it is alleged an arrangement was made, is also dead.
We are thus deprived of the evidence of the chief actors.
We think the truth is here. Huntington made a verbal
agreement with Dodge to buy the house he had rented of him,
and to pay these notes in satisfaction of the price. The evidence on this point is not free from doubt; and Huntington
was certainly at liberty to repudiate the agreement, as being
within the Statute of Frauds. But there is no evidence that he
wished to do so. When the notes matured, he was not in a
condition, or did not wish,. to pay them. One note ($2,000)
was held by the- Chatham Bank, of New York, and sent for
collection to the First National Bank of Washington, of which
Huntington was the cashier. Huntington's bank forwarded
the note to the Farmers' and Mechanics' Bank of Georgetown,
and received credit for the amount, $2,121. This - note was
entered on the bank-books of Washington as due Jan. 24,
and as being paid on'that day. This was an error; it was, in
fact, payable on the 22d.
The note of $4,000" was held by Mr. Robinson, who deposited
it in the Farmers' and Mechanics' Bank of Georgetown, for
collection, and on the 22d of January, 1870, he was there
credited on his account with the amount, to wit, $4,242.
The $7,000 .note was held by Mr. Todd, and Was by him
deposited in the National Metropolitan Bank of. Washington,
for oollection, and his account was in like manner credited
with the amount. The record contains no further -evidence in
relation to the payment of this note.
The evidence is complete and certain that I-untington did
not pay the notes or ad-ance the money -by which they wer6
taken up. The evidence is quite satisfactory that the Y reedman's Bank did advance the money and take up the notes

Oct. 1876.]

DODGE V. FREEDMAN'S SAV. & TRUST

Co.

385

by its check for $13,786.50, bearing date Jan. 24, and that it
has held them since that time. There is no evidence that
this check was actually drawn on that day; and it would
reconcile some of the discrepancies, if we were to suppose
that it bore date of the 24th, but was actually drawn on the
22d, and on that day used in the purchase of the notes. We
do not see that it is very material which way this shall be
held to be. The title of the Freedman's Bank is the same in
either case. There is no evidence that it had knowledge of
any obligation of Huntington to take up the notes, if any such
existed; and there is no evidence that Huntington did any
thing about procuring an arrangement for their being taken
up. It dealt with the bank or banks holding the notes in the,
ordinary way. By law, a collecting bank is the agent of the
holder of the note, and in no sense the agent of the maker.
Montgomery Bank v. Albany City Bank, 7 N. Y. 459; 22 Barb.
627. What the holddr was entitled to was his money, or the
proper diligence to obtain it. If the maker had any thing to
say or do in the premises, it was to present himself with the
money when the notes matured, pay them, and secure his obligatiQns. Failing in this, he leaves the securities to be dealt
with as others interested may choose. There would appear,
therefore, in the nature and propriety of the subject, to be no
objection to a transfer to a third person paying the money,
instead of a technical payment and discharge of the notes. It
is to be observed, also, that payment technically can only be
made by a party to a bill, or by a stranger, supra prote8t.
Chitty on Bills, 392. Such parties may either pay in satisfaction of the note, or pay and hold it as by a transfer, leaving
it an existing security. Byles on Bills, 166; Green v. Key,
8 B. & Ad. 318. It can, therefore, make no differgnce to the
holder, whether, when taken by a stranger, it is taken and
held as upon a, transfer, or in satisfaction of the instrument.
The negotiability of a bill or note remains after maturity as
before (Byles, 160-162), subject to the equities betiveen the
parties.
The books are full of cases to the. effect that an agent to
whom a bill is 'ent for collection cannot lawfully transfer or
pledge the same in payment of his own debt, and that the
VOL. 11.

25

386

DODGE V. FREEDMAN'S SAV. & TRUST CO.

[Sup. Ct.

transferee with knowledge or after maturity gets no .title as
against the true owner. 1 Pars. on Bills and Notes, 119.
In cases like that before us, where the intention to continue
the existence of the note and not to cancel it by payment is
made evident, when the money is paid to the collecting agent
appointed to receive it, and the owner of the note receives the
amount due to him, the authorities sustain the transaction as a
purchase.
In Deacon v. Stodhardt, 2 Man. & G. 317, it was held,
that where, to a count by the executors of A., an indorser,
against D., the acceptor of a bill, the defendants pleaded payment, and the evidence was tlmat A. had placed- the bill in the
hands of E. to be presented, who improperly had it discounted,
and to regain possession of it paid the amount to the bankers
of the acceptor, thus obtained the bill and returned it to A., it
was held that there was no payment. Bosanquet, J., said, "It
is clear that the payment of the bill by Jones was a payment
not on account of the defendants (the acceptors), but that in
order that Jones might regain the possession of it." Erskine, J.,
says, "It appears that Jones, having raised money on the bill,
took it up when at maturity, and then returned it to the testator, who was at liberty to proceed upon it at any future time."
The bill was thus paid at maturity without the knowledge or
consent of the true owner, and was then remitted to the owner,
and it was held to be a valid bill in his hands.
In the Pacific Bank v. I1itchell, 9 let. 297, it was held,
that where the holder of a bill of exchange accepted for the
accommodation of the drawer sends it to a bank for collection,
and the bank, when the bill comes to maturity, passes the
amount thereof to the credit of the holder, this is not such a
payment as discharges the acceptor, but the bank succeeds to
the right of the holder, and may maintain an action on the bill
against the acceptor. The plaintiffs, it was held, succeeded to
the rights of the bank, and became bona fide holders of the bill.
In Burr v. Smith, 21 Barb. 262, it was held that a stranger
may advance the morley and hold the note, if such is the clear
intention of the parties at the time of the transaction. The
court remark upon it as a suspicious circumstance, that the
payer in that case was not called as a witness. He knew, it is

Oct. 1876.]

CALLANAN V. HURLEY.

said, in what character and in whose behalf he paid the money,
and whose money it was with which the note was paid.
In Harbeck v. Vanderbilt, 20 N. Y. 395, it was held, that
when the amount due upon a judgment is paid, wholly or in
part, by one who is not a party nor bound by it, the judgment
is extingtishe.d or not, according to the intention of the party
paying. So held, where one of the defendants in a judgment
upon a joint obligation paid his aliquot portion in cash, gave
his note for the remainder indorsed by a third person, and procured the judgment to be assigned to a trustee for such person,
without his knowledge. The judgment, it was held, remained
unsatisfied for the amount not actually paid by the defendant
therein, and might be enforced by the indorser as an indemnity
against his contingent liability.
In Keystone Bank v. Gay, 21 Barb. 459, the principle was
laid down, that to constitute payment, money, or some other
valuable thing, must be delivered by the debtor to the creditor
for the purpose of extinguishing the debt, and the creditor
must receive it for the same purpose.
Judgment affirmed.

CALLA-\:7A

v. HUiLEY.

I. A treasurer's deed for lands sold for delinquent taxes in the State of Iowa, if
substantially regular in form, is, under the statutes of that State, at least
prinafacie evidence that a sale was made; and, if there was a bonafide sale,
in substance or in fact, the deed is conclusive evidence that it was made at
the proper time and in the proper manner.
2. In a case where a tax-deed, regular in form, recited that the land was sold
Jan. 4, and where the treasurer certified that the sales of land for delinquent
taxes in the county began on that day, and were continued from day to day
until Jan. 18, and that lie entered all the sales as made on the- 4th, it was
held, that a sale of land at any time during the period from the 4th to the
18th was valid, and that recording such sale as made on the first day, though
actually-made later, did not impair the title.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.
The complainant asserts title to the lands in controversy, by
virtue of his having entered them pursuant to the provisions of
the act of Congress; and the defendant Callanan claims to be

