Oct. 1876.]

OBER V. GALLAGHER.

OBER

v.

GALLAGHER.

1. In a suit brought by a citizen of Louisiana, in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Arkansas, to enforce a lien on lands situate within that district, one of the defendants, a citizen of Tennessee, was
served with process in Arkansas. Held, that, under the act of Feb. 28,
1839 (5 Stat. 321), such service brought him within the jurisdiction of the
court.
2. A court which has acquired rightful jurisdiction of the parties and subjectmatter will retain it for all purposes within the general scope of the equities
to be enforced.
3. The holder of a note which is secured by mortgage may proceed at law and
in equity at the same time, until he obtains actual satisfaction of the debt.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Arkansas.
Thompson purchased from Fleming, Jan. 15,.1867, a plantation situated partly in Prairie County and partly in Pulaski
County, Ark., at the price of $60,000, to be paid in ten equal
instalments, the first March 1, 1867, and the remainder annu-,
ally thereafter. Notes, negotiable in form, and expressing on
their face that their consideration was the purchase of this
plantation, were executed by Thompson to Fleming for the
several instalments, payable at the times agreed upon. On the
same day, the date of the purchase, Fleming and his wife conveyed the property to Thompson by a deed in which, after a
recital of the notes for the purchase-iaoney, was the following:
" But it is expressly agreed by the parties of the first and second part, that the said parties of the first.part shall, and do
hereby, retain a lien upon all of said lands for the payment of
said ten promissory notes given for the purchase-money, and,
when the same are fully paid off, said lien is to stand released
and discharged." This deed was recorded in Pulaski County,
Feb. 26, 1867. It was also duly recorded in Prairie County.
At the time of the purchase, Thompson was a citizen of Louisiana, and Fleming, of Arkansas. The note falling due March
1, 1867, was paid Jan. 19, 1867; and on March 20, 1867,
Fleming transferred all the other notes, by indorsement, to
Gallaher, a citizen of Louisiana. Gallagher afterwards sued
Thompson in the fifth district court for the parish of Orleans,
La., upon the note falling due March 1, 1869, and, June 7,

200

OBER

v.

GALLAGHER.

[Sup. Ct;.

1869, recovered judgment thereon for $6,000 and interest from
March 4, with costs. This judgment he has been unable to
collect by execution or otherwise.
At the time of the purchase there was also a judgment in the
Prairie County Circuit Court of Arkansas, against Fleming,
in favor of one Embry, for $643.43 debt, and $63 damages,
which was a lien upon the part of the plantation in Prairie
County. An execution was issued upon this judgment April 29,
1867, levied May 14,1867, on the lands covered by thd judgment
lien; and they were offered for sale by the sheriff, and struck
off, Aug. 19,1867, to one English, for $844.70.' In pursuance of
this sale, the sheriff conveyed them to English, Aug. 24, 1867;
and, Feb. 29, 1868, English conveyed them to Ober, the appellant, to whom at the same time Thompson also conveyed them.
Gallagher afterwards, being' a citizen of Louisiana, filed this
bill against Ober, a citizen of Arkansas, and Thompson, then
a citizen of Tennessee, in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Arkansas, setting forth the sale
from Fleming to Thompson; the execution of the notes by
Thompson to Fleming; the reservation of the lien in the deed
from Fleming; the indorsement of the note falling due March 1,
1869, by Fleming to Gallagher; the judgment against Thompson thereon in the fifth district court for the parish of Orleans;
the judgment of Embry against Fleming; its lien; the sale and
conveyance by the sheriff to English; and the conveyance by
English to Ober, - substantially as above stated. The bill then
alleges, in effect, that the purchase by English at the sheriff's
sale was for the use of*Thompson; that Thompson paid him
the money he advanced to the sheriff; that the conveyance
to Ober was for the benefit and at the request of Thompson;
and that Ober at the time had full knowledge of all the
facts. The prayer is, that the property conveyed by Fleming
to Thompson may be subjected, under the lien reserved in 'the
deed, to the payment of the amount due upon the judgment in
favor of 'Gallagher.
At the time of the commencement of this suit, Fleming, as
well as Thompson, was a citizen of Tennessee. He was not
made a party. Ober -and Thompson were both served with
Process in Arkansas, Thompson having beea found there at the

Oct. 1876.]

OBER v. GALLAGHER.

time; and they both demurred to the bill, assigning special
cause, as follows: "1st Said bill shows that said Thompson is a non-resident of
said district, and not within the jurisdiction of this court.
"2d, Said complainant, as the assignee of the note named in said
bill, did not take any lien, nor has he any under and by virtue of
the assignment of said note.
" 3d, Said bill fails to show that John T. Fleming, the original
holder and payee of said note, could have. brought suit 'thereon in
this court.
"4th, Said bill fails to show that complainant has exhausted his
remedies at law to collect the debt named in said bill.
"5th, The judgment exhibited with said bill rendered in the
State of Louisiana merged the note named in the bill, and this
court has no jurisdiction to enforce such judgment as a lien against
the lands describedin the bill, or to enforce it at all, until a judgment
is rendered on the same in this court at law.
"6th, Said complainant having elected to sue said Thompson at
law, he must abide such election, or show that he has used all
remedy under such suit; but to no purpose, which said bill does
not show."
This demurrer was overruled. Thompson elected to stand
by his demurrer, but Ober answered, insisting that the title of
English was superior to that. of Fleming, and that he was a
bona fide purchaser from English, without notice. In this way,
he claimed to hold the property in Pulaski County free from
the lien reserved by Fleming. As to that in Prairie County,
he insisted that the note due March 1, 1867, exceeded in
amount the value of this part of the property, and that in
equity it should be released from the lien.
After this answer, Gallagher, by cbnsent, amended his bill,
by setting up his ownership of the other notes indorsed to him,
and asking that "as to any of said notes that may be due at
the time of rendering the final decree herein," he might, have
"the same relief that lie hath already in and by his original
bill prayed; and that, as to the remainder of said notes, the
court may give him such relief as may tend to secure. the payment of the same when they respectively fall- due, yiithout
further litigation or delay." At' the time 6f filing this amend-

OBER v. GALLAGHER.

[Sup. Ot.

ment, it was agreed that the answer of Ober to the original bill
should be taken as his answer to the amended bill; that Thompson should have the same benefit from his demurrer to the
original bill that he would have if he had demurred to the
bill as amended: and the cause was set down for hearing upon
bill, amended bill, answer, and replication, with leave to both
parties to take depositions.
The Circuit Court rendered a decree, April 24, 1874, finding
due to Gallagher, upon his judgment, and upon the notes then
past due and unpaid, 849,903; establishing a lien in his favor
upon the whole plantation in the hands of Ober, as security for
the amount so found to be due; and oraering a sale, and an
application of the proceeds to its payment. Further directions
were also given in respect to the notes not then due.
From this decree Ober alone appeals.
./1r.A. H. Garlandfor the appellant.
1. The complainant and Thompson were non-residents of the
State, and the latter was not within the jurisdiction of the
court. When there is' a plurality of plaintiffs- or defendants,
each one must'possess the requisite character to sue and be
sued. The bill must expressly aver 'this citizenship. Conk'ing's Treatise, 143 (4th ed.) 343-349; Story' Eq. PI., sects.
492, 721.
The act of Feb. 28, 1839, does not modify that rule further
than to permit the suit-to progress against the defendant residing in the State, and to be dismissed 'against the other.
1 Wheat. 91; 1 Paine, C. C. 410; 3 Cianch, '267.
2. Tha complainant did not take a special lien, nor has he any
under and by virtue of the assignment of said note. 1 Lead. Ca .
in Eq. (Hare & Wall.) 367 (3d Am. ed.) 3 Campbell's Appeal,
6 Am. Law lieg. 751"765; 2 Wash. Real Prop. 92, sect. 18 (3d
ed.); Shall v. Biscoe, 18 Ark. 142; In re Brookcs,.2 Bk. Reg.
149; 2 Story, Eq. Jur. 1039, 1040, 1057; Story, Eq. P1.118, 134,
153, 158;'4 Rand. (Va.) 447; 1 Eq. Cas. Ab. 93; 6 B. Mon.
(Ky.) '393; 7 Cranch, 94; 1 Johns. h.' 119; 10 Johns. 65i
18 id. 402; 2 Johns. Ch.418; 1 Paige, 329; 10 Ves. 411; 11 id.
13; 2-Story, sect. 1250 ; 11 Ohio, 21 ; 5 Cranch,-322; 2 Spence,
Eq. Jur. 850-852;12 Wheat. 594.
-3.The bill fails to) show that. Fleming'the original holder*

Oct. 1876.]

OBER

. GALLAGHER.

and payee of said note, could have brought suit thereon in the
court below. Sheldon v. Sill, 8 How. 441; Conkling's Treatise,
109, 133 ; 4 Cranch, 46 ; 16 Pet. 315 ; 2 How. 241 ; 13 id. 183;
8 Wall. 393.
4. The bill fails to show that complainant has exhausted his
remedies at law to collect the debt named therein. Liingston
v. Van Ingen, 1 Paine, 45; Loman v. Clarke, 2 McLean, 568;
Toby v. County of Bristol, 3 Story, 800; Bennett v. Butterworth, 11 How. 669; Jones v. l"iclasters,20 id. 9; 4 Dall. 5;
1 Pet. 232; 3 id. 210; 15 How. 299; 2 Black, 245; 2 Curt.
592; Baldw. C. C. 394; 5 McLean, 337; Hex v. Autbury,
6 Eng. (11 Ark.) 411; Wiggins v. Armstrong, 2 Johns. Ch. 144;
Apperson v. Ford, 23 Ark. 746; Story, Eq. PI., sect. 257 a;
1 Clarke (Iowa),.98, 148; Carter v. Bennett, 6 Fla. 214; Scott
v. McFarland,34 Miss. (5 George), 363.
5. The judgment rendered in Louisiana merged the note; and
the court below had no jurisdiction to enforce Oich judgment
as a lien against the lands, or to enforce it at all, until a judgment
should be rendered thereon in Arkansas. areen v. Sarmiento,
Pet. C. C. 74; 3 W. C. C. 17; Postlewaite v. Howe, 3 Clarke
(Iowa), 365; Besby v. Palmer, 1 Hill (N. J.), 482; Jones v.
Jamison',15 La. Ann: 35; iittredge v. Stephens, 16 Cal. 381;
Temple v. Scott, 3 Mirn. 419 et seq.; Freeman on Judgments,
215-221 ; Story, Confl. Laws, 584-603,, 609 a; Bright. Dig. p.
499, sect. 188; Carter v. Bennett, supra; 1 Rob. Pr. 194-288;
16 Pet. 26; 1 McLean, 167; 6 Pet. 389; 34 Miss. 708; Bean
v. Smith et al., 2 Mason, C. C. 252; Shields v. Thofnas, 18
How. 253; Conkling's Treatise, 272; 2 Story, 598; 3 Sumn.
425-429; 2 id. 589; 20 How. 591; Bright. Dig. 291.
6. The compflainant, having elected to sue Thompson at law,
must abida by such election, or show that he has used all remedy under such suit, but to no purpose. 24 Ark. 410; Mitf.
P1. 10, note 1 et seq.; Wigram's Discov. 54, note 4; id. 67.
Mr. T. M. Rose, for the appellee.
MR. CH1EF JUSTICE WAITE stated the case, and delivered
the opinion of the court.
No errors have" been assigned either upon the record or in
the briefs of counsel, as required by our Rule 21. For this

OBER V.,GALLAGHER.

[Sup. Ct.

reason, we might very properly affirm the decree without looking into the record; but, as the case has been submitted and
briefs filed on both sides, we will, without making this a precedent to justify such neglect of thig salutary rule in the future,
proceed to the consideration of the points suggested by the
counsel for the appellant in opposition to the decree.
1. It is insisted, that as Thonipson was, at the time of the
commencement of the suit, a citizen of Tennessee, and a necessary party, the court could not take jurisdiction of the cause;
and in support of this objection, it is said, that, where there is
a plurality of plaintiffs or defendants, each one must have the
requisite character of citizenship to sue and be sued.
The question here presented cannot be one of practical
importance in the future, as the act of Mlarch 3, 1875 (18 Stat.
470, sect. 1), has extended the jurisdiction of the circuit courts
to controversies "between citizens of different States," using
for that purpose the very words of the- Constitution (art. 3,
sect. 2), and thus avoiding the embarrassments that frequently
arose under'the act of 1789 (1 Stat. 78, sect. 11), which limited their authority to controversies between "a citizen of the
State where the suit is brought and a citizen of another State."
It is, therefore, sufficient to say, that, since the act of Feb. 28,
1839 (5 Stat. 321, sect. 1), it has never been doubted that the
circuit courts had jurisdiction of a suit in equity of a local
nature, where a citizen of one State prosecuted citizejis of other
States, in a distridt where the property in controversy was situated, and of which one of the defendants was an inhabitant.
If all the defendants were served with process in the district,
or voluntarily appeared in the suit, the decree when passed
would bind all. But if they were not served, or did not appear,
and they wete not indispensable parties, the case might proceed without them, and their interests irould not be affected by
what was done.in their absence. If, however, an indispensable
party was a citizen of the same State with the plaintiff, the
jurisdiction would be defeated; because the controversy would
not be between citizens of.different States, and thus not within
the judicial power of the United States as defined by the Constitution. The decisions to this effect are numerous. Ilagan v.
-Walker, 14 Hew. 36 ; Shields v. Barrow, 17 id. 141 ; Clear-

Oct. 1876.]

OBER v. GALLAGHER.

water v. Meredith, 21 id. 492; Inbusch v. Farwell, 1 Black,
571; Barnes v. Baltimore City, 6 Wall. 286; Jones v. Andrews,
10 id. 332; Commercial & R. B. Bank of Vickcsburg 'v. Slocomb, 14 Pet. 65. In Louisville Railroad Company v. Litson,
2 How. 497, it is also distinctly stated (p. 556), that the act of
1839 " was passed exclusively with an intent to rid the courts
of the decision in the case of Strawbridge v. Curtis," 3 Cranch,
267, which, with that of The Banc v. Deveaux, 5 Cranch, 84,
had "never been satisfactory to the bar.", p. 555.
"*Here, Gallagher could sue both Thompson and Ober separately in the courts of the United States, and they could each
sue him. The suit is of a local nature, its object being to subject lands in Arkansas to the payment of a debt. It must,
therefore, be brought in the district where the property is situated. Ober is a citizen of that State, and is the principal
defendant. The relief demanded consists:in bringing his property to sale, to pay a debt charged uRon it. As to him, the
court confessedly had jurisdiction. Thompson, though a citizen of Tefnnessee, was served with process in Arkansas; and
this, under the provisions of the act of 1889, brought him into
the case, and within the jurisdiction of the court.
2. As Fleming, the payee of the notes secured by the lien,
was, when the suit vas commenced, a citizen of Tennessee,
and, consequently, incompetent to sue Thompson, also a; citizen
of that State, in the courts of the United States, it is claimed
that Gallagher cannot maintain this suit."
This objection is also based upon a clause in sett. 11 of the
Judiciary Act of 1789, repealed by the act of March 3, 1875,
which provides that no circuit court shall have cognizance of
any suit to-recover the contents of a promissory note in favor
of an assignee, unless a suit might have been prosecuted in
such court to recover such contents if no assignment had been
made. Under this act, it was held, in Sheldon v. Sill, 8 How.
441, that an ind6rsee of a negotiable promissory note, secured
to the payee by a mortgage, could not sue in the courts of the
United States to foreclose the mortgage, unless the mortgagee
could. Gallagher did not sue in this case originally as the
indorsee of a note, but as the owner of a judgment of record
in his own favor, secured by a lien which he asked 'to have

OBER

v.

GALLAGHER.

[Sup. Ct.

enforced. The note was no longer in existence as an outstandimg liability. It had been merged in the judgment, and was,
as a note, extinguished. Gallagher no longer claims as the
assignee of the note, but as the owner of a judgment in his
favor against Thompson. He can sue Thompson upon the
judgment in the courts of the United States in Tennessee. As
-was well said by Mr. Justice Story, in Bean v. Smith, 2 Mass.
269, " It is no objection to the jurisdiction, that at some anterior period the transaction assumed a shape not within the
reach of that jurisdiction. It is sufficient, if it has now become
so modified by the act of the parties, or by the principles of
law, that jurisdiction now rightfully attaches." Thompson is
no longer a debtor by note to Fleming, but by judgment to
Gallagher.. In the collection of the judgment, Gallagher does
not sue or proceed upon the note and its assignment, but upon
the judgment.
The court had, therefore, jurisdiction of the suit as originally
brought; and this jurisdiction was not defeated by the amendment which introduced the notes, not in judgment, but secured
by the lien, into the case. Having obtained rightful jurisdiction of the parties and the subjeqt-matter of the action for one
purpose, the court will make its jurisdiction effectual for complete relief. Story's Eq. 64 7. If the amendment had not
been made, the courtwould in its decree have taken car6 to
protect ihe rights of ihe'holders of the outstanding not'es; and
that is all it is called upon to do by the amendment. Having
jurisdiction for one purpose, it may be retained for all within
bhe general scope of the equities to be enforced.
3. Another, objection urged is, that the assignment of the
n'otes by Fleming did not transfer the lien he had reserved as
security for'their payment. It is undoubtedly true, that, in
many of the States, the implied lien' which 'equity raises in
favor of the vendor of real property to secure the payment of
the purchase-money does not pass by- an'assignment of the
debt; but here the lien was not left to implication: it was
expressly reserved. In fact, it is more than a lien. In equity,
it is a mortgage, so made by express contract. The acceptance
by Thompson of the deed containing the reservation amounts
to an express agreement on his part that the land should be

Oct. 1876. ]

OBER

v.

GALLAGHER.

held as security for the payment of what he owed on account
of the purchase-money. This created an equitable mortgage;
and such a security passes by an assignment of the debt it
secures. We so held in Batesville Institute v. Kauffman, 18
Wall. 154, a case which also came .from the Eastern District of
Arkansas.
It is claimed, however, that the law of Arkansas is different,
and that the Supreme Court of that State ha' decided that
a lien to secure the payment of purchase-money, expressly
reserved by the vendor in his deed, does not pass by an assignment of the debt. If such was the settled rule of law in the
State when the notes which are under consideration in this
case were assigned, we should be compelled to recognize it as a
rule of property there, and be governed accordingly. Suydam
v. Williamson, 24 How. 434. But we do not understand such
t6 have been the -fact. The first case in 'which this ruling was
made was Sheppard v. Thomas, 26 Ark. 617, decided at the
June Term, 1871, by a divided court, two out of the five judges
dissenting. This case was followed also by a divided court in
Jones v. Doss, 27 Ark. 518, decided at the December Term,
1872; but almost immediately thereafter, April 24, 1873,-the
legislature provided by statute as follows: "The lien or equity held or possessed by the vendor of any real
estate, for the sale -of the same, shall inure to the benefit of any
assignee of the notes or obligations given for the purchase-money
of such real estate, and such lien or equity shall be assignable, and
-payable by indorsement or otherwise in the hands of such assignee,
and any such assignee may maintain'an action or suit to enforce
the same :. Provided,the said lien or equity is expressed upon or
appears from the face of the deed of conveyance." Pamphlet Laws,
1873; p. 217, sect.. 28.
* This legislation was followed, at the December Term, 1873,
by the case of Campbell v. Bankin,28 Ark. 401, in which it
was strongly intimated, that, if it were necessary, the, previous
cases in which this question was decided would be overruled.
Under these circumstances, we are not satisfied that, when thesenotes were assigned, it was a settled rule of property in Arkan,
sas' that a lien for purchase-money expressly reserved would
not pass by an'assignment of the debt. Such being the case,
N-

OBER V. GALLAGHER.

[Sup. lot.

the Circuit Court was right in following our decision in Batesville Institute v. Kauffman, especially as its decision was not
made until after the doubts expressed in Campbell v. Rankin,
as to the correctness of the rulings in the previous cases.
4. It is finally insisted that Gallagher must exhaust his remedies at law before he can come into a court of equity to subject the land. This is not a creditor's bill to reach equitable
assets. There is no attempt to enforce the judgment as a judgment, but to reach securities held for the debt. 'The suit is in
reality one to-enforce a mortg-age given to secure a note, but
riot commenced until after the note had gone into judgment at
law. The . note was merged in the judgment: but the lien
which secured it was not; that was simply transferred from
the note to .the judgment.
An election to sue at law upon a note secured by mortgage
does not make it necessary for the holder to exhaust his remedies in that forum before he can go hito equity to enforce
his mortgage. He may proceed at law and in equity at the
same time, and until actual satisfaction of the debt has been
obtained.
This disposes of all the questions presented in the demurrer,
and brings us to a consideration of the case upon its facts.
Without going into the details of the evidence, it is sufficient
to say, that we are entirely satisfied that English purchased
the property in Pulaski County at the sheriff's sale, for the benefit of Thompson; that Thompson either furnished him the
money to pay the sheriff, or repaid him what he may have
advanced within a short time thereafter; that the sale to Ober
was made by Thompson to pay or secure a debt he owed; that
English conveyed to Ober at the request of Thompson, and to
give effect'to the arrangement he had made; that Ober,at the
time of his purchase, -had full knowledge of all the facts, and
that he took the title to the property incumbered by the lien
reserved in the deed from Fleming.
It follows that the decree of the Circuit Court was right, and
Affirmed.
it is, therefore,

