Oct. 1876.]

NORT0N,

ASSIGNEE, v.

SWITZER.

The fact that the retainer was by the trustees in the mortgages, who h ave since died, and that the present suit was prosecuted by the bondholders, the cestuis que trust, does not affect
the position of the claim. The trustees, had they lived, would
,have been entitled to retain out of the funds received by them
sufficient to meet the claim. They would have had an equitable right not merely to be reimbursed from such funds all
reasonable expenses incurred, but also to retain from the funds
sufficient to meet all reasonable liability contracted in the execution of their trust. From the time of the employment of the
intervenor, the funds derived from the mortgaged property
were chargeable with the liability consequent upon the retainer;
and it matters not whether those funds were obtained by the
trustees, or, in consequence of their death or of the action of the
court, by other parties having charge of the property.
Decree affirmed.

NOI.TOx, ASSIGNEE, V. SWITZER.
1. A suit pending against a party at the time he is adjudged a bankrupt, may,
after due notice to his assignee, be prosecuted to final judgment against the
latter in his representative capacity, where he makes no objection to the
jurisdiction and the bankrupt pourt does not arrest the proceedings.
2. Such judgment may be filed with the assignee as an ascertainment of the
amount due to the creditor by the bankrupt, and as a basis of dividends, but
it is effectual and operative for that purpose only.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Louihiana.
Switzer brought suit against Mary Hein and John Hein in
the Second Judicial District Court for the parish of Jefferson,
which, by consent of parties, was transferred to the Fifth District
Court of the parish of Orleans. During its pendency, he suggested that since the institution thereof the defendants had
taken the benefit of the bankrupt law, and that Emory E. Norton had been appointed and qualified as their assignee. The
court ordered that the latter, in his capacity as such assignee,
be made a party to the suit in their place and stead. Process
was personally served upon him; but he failed to appear. The
cause coming on for trial, judgment was rendered in favor of

NORTON, ASSIGNBE, V. SWITZER.

[Sup. Ct.

Switzer against Norton, said assignee. The latter appealed to
the Supreme Court of the State; and the judgment having been
there affirmed, he sued out this writ of error.
Submitted on printed arguments by lfr. B. .T. Merrick and
.
. Race for the plaintiff in error, who, upon the quesil.
tion as to whether an assignee in bankruptcy can, after citation
in a pending suit, be substituted by a State court as a defendant
in the place and stead of the bankrupt, referred to In re Cook
and Gleason, 3 Biss. 119; In re -Ernest Sacchi, 10 Blatchf. 29;
In r e Geo. W. Anderson, 9 Bank. Reg. 360.
No counsel appeared for the defendant in error.
M . JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

State legislatu'rs have no authority'to create a maritime lien,
nor can they confdr any jurisdiction upon a State court to enforce such a lien by a suitor proceeding in rem, as practised in
.the admiralty courts.
Causes of action which give rise to a maritime lien, whether
contracts or torts, may be prosecuted in other modes of proceeding as well as in rem in the admiralty.
Wherever a maritime lien arises, the libellant or plaintiff may
waive the lien in the admiralty, and pursue his remedy by a
suit in personam, or he may institute an action at law, if the
common law is competent to give him a remedy. Such a party
may, if he sees fit, proceed in rem in the admiralty ; and, if he
elects to enforce the maritime lien which arises in the case, he
cannot proceed in any other mode or forum, as the jurisdiction
of the admiralty courts to enforce a maritime lien is exclusive,
and cannot be exercised in any other mode than by a proceeding in rem.

Parties in maritime cases are not restricted to that mode of
proceeding, even in the admiralty, as they may waive the lien
and proceed in personam against the owner or master of the
vessel, in the same jurisdiction; nor are they compelled to proceed in the admiralty at all, as they may resort to their common-law remedy in the State courts, or in the Circuit Court, if
the party seeking redress and the other party are citizens of
different States. Leon v. Galceran, 11 Wall. 190.
Sufficient appears to show that the plaintiff sued John and

Oct. 1876.]

NORTON,

ASSIGNEE, V. SWITZER.

M ary Hein as owners of the steamboat "Frolic," in an action
of assumpsit, and that he alleged in his petition that they were
indebted to him in the sum of $870 with interest, for services
rendered as master and superintendent in repairing the vessel,
at the rate of $300 per month, for the period specified in the
bill of particulars annexed to the petition. He also alleged that
he was a privileged creditor, that the steamboat was about to
leave the jurisdiction, and that he was apprehensive he should
lose his claim if she should depart before it was satisfied;
wherefore he prayed for a writ of provisional seizure, and-for
process to compel the appearance of the defendants.
Summonses were issued and served; and the defendants
appeared and filed a plea to the jurisdiction of the court, in
which they alleged that the suit is not a.proceeding in rem, but
a proceeding against the persons of the defendants, and that
they reside outside of the jurisdiction of the court. They also
filed an exception, that the plaintiff cannot proceed by provisional seizure, because the services for which he claims payment
did not arise while the steamboat was navigating or trading
within the State.
Pursuant to the order of the court, the steamboat -as surrendered to the defendants, and they gave the usual bond for
value; and the cause, by the consent of the parties, was transferred from the second to the fifth judicial district, where the
residue of the proceedings took place.
Four days later the defendants appeared and filed an answer,
in which they denied all the allegations of the petition; that
John Hein was ever owner of the steamboat; that the plaintiff
has any privilege on the steamboat for any work or services,
or that he ever rendered services as charged; and prayed
judgment in their favor.
On the same day the court granted a rule that the plaintiff
show cause. on a day named why the provisional seizure issued
in the case should not be set aside. Reasons were also assigned
by the defendants in support-of the motion; but the plaintiff,
before the return-day of the rule, amended his petition, and
alleged that he omitted to state in his original petition that
John Hein, the agent and manager of the steamboat, gave him
note for the sum of $870, as an acknowledgment for the ser-

NORTON, ASSIGNEE, v. SWITZER.

[Sup. Ct.

vices charged in the bill of particulars; and he prayed leave to
file the note and the amended petition, and that the defendants
might be cited to appear and answer.
Leave to file the petition and note was granted; and they
were filed, as appears by the record. New summonses were issued
to the defendants ; and they appeared and filed an exception to
the supplemental petition, because the same alters the demand,
showing that the claim as stated in the original petition has been
novated by the taking of a note. Hearing was had, and the
exception was dismissed; and it also appears that the rule to
show cause why the provisional seizure should not be set aside
was also dismissed, by consent of the parties.
Separate answers were then filed by the defendants, as follows: The defendant first named denies that he was or is the
owner of the steamboat, and says that the note was given as a
novation of the prior debt, and was accepted by the plaintiff.
Mary Hein also denies that she is indebted as charged, or that
the note was given as evidence of the debt; but avers that it
was given by John Hein as a novation and in payment of the
original debt, as acknowledged by the plaintiff. Subsequently
she pleaded payment of the sum of $400, as per receipt exhibited
in the record.
Testimony was taken; and the defendants subsequently
pleaded' as a peremptory exception that the suit is against a
steamboat, and that the District Court, sitting in admiralty, has
exclusive jurisdiction of such cases. Both parties were heard,
and the court sustained the exception. Due application was
made by the plaintiff for a new trial; and, pending that motion,
the plaintiff suggested to the court that the defendants had severally taken the benefit of the Bankrupt Act, and that Emory
E. Norton had been appointed and qualified as their assignee;
whereupon the court ordered that the assignee of the defendants be made a party to the suit, in his capacity aforesaid, in
place and stead of the defendants. Regular process was accordingly issued and served in person upon the assignee.
Two continuances followed, and the cause subsequently came
on for trial. Evidence was introduced by the plaintiff; and
the court, on the 22d of April, 1870, rendered judgment in his
favor, that he recover of Emory E. Norton, assignee of the

Oct. 1876.]

NORTON, ASSIGNEE, V. SWITZER.

defendants John and Mary Hein, the sum of $870, with interest
until paid, and with costs and privilege on the steamboat.
Within due time the assignee claimed a devolutive appeal to
the Supreme Court of the State; and it was granted. Seasonable entry of the appeal was made in the Supreme Court; and
that court affirmed the judgment of the court of original jurisdiction, holding, First,that the suit was a personal action against
the owners, and not a proceeding in rem to enforce a maritime
lien; second, that the State court, having acquired jurisdiction before the bankrupt proceedings were commenced, was not
divested of jurisdiction by the decree adjudging the defendants
bankrupts, so long as the amount of the debt claimed was in
dispute and remained unascertained.
Application for a new trial was made, and was refused by
the court; and Emory E. Norton, as assignee of the bankrupt
defendants, sued out a writ of error, and removed the cause into
this court.
Since the cause was entered here the assignee has assigned
two errors, to the effect as follows: 1. That the State court was
without authority or jurisdiction to render the judgment against
the plaintiff in error, as assignee of John and Mary Hein, adjudged bankrupts, for the sum specified in the record. 2. That
the judgment is erroneous, because the claim of the plaintiff
was against the steamboat for a claim thereon, as master and
superintendent, which was cognizable exclusively in the admiralty, and not in the courts of the State where it was
adjudicated.
Assignees in bankruptcy are appointed by the creditors, and
the judge or register is required to. assign and convey to the
assignee all the estate, real and personal, of the bankrupt, with
all his deeds, books, and papers relating thereto; and the fourteenth section of the Bankrupt Act provides to the effect that
all the properties of the bankrupt of every kind, including
property conveyed by the bankrupt in fraud of his creditors,
and all rights of action, shall, in virtue of the adjudication of
bankruptcy and the appointment of his assignee, be at once
vested in such assignee, and that the assignee may sue for and
recover the said estate, debts, and effects, and may prosecute
and defend all suits at law or in equity pending at the time of

NORTON, ASSIGNEE,

V. SWITZER.

[Sup. Ct.

the adjudication of bankruptcy, in which such bankrupt is a
party, in his own name, in the same manner and with the like
effect as they might have been prosecuted or defended by such
bankrupt. 14 Stat. 522, sect. 14; 14 id. 523.
Except where the amount is in dispute, no creditor of the
bankrupt is allowed to prosecute his suit, whether at law or in
equity, to final judgment, until the question of the debtor's
discharge shall have been determined; but the provision. is, that
if the amount due the creditors is in dispute, the suit may, by
leave of the court in bankruptcy, proceed to judgment for the
purpose of ascertaining the amount due; in which event the
amount recovered may be proved in bankruptcy, but the execution must be stayed to await the determination of the question of discharge. 14 Stat. 527, sect. 21.
Argument to show that the assignee in bankruptcy may in
his own name prosecute and defend suits pending in the name
of the debtor at the time he, the debtor, is adjudged bankrupt,
is quite unnecessary, as the act of Congress so provides in
express terms; nor is it necessary in this case to determine
whether the other party may, as matter of right, have process
to compel the assignee to appear and prosecute or defend such
a suit, where the assignee does not apply to the court to be
admitted to prosecute or defend the suit in his own name.
Such a question does not arise under the present writ of error,
for the reason that the court of original jurisdiction passed an
order that the assignee should be made a party defendant to
the suit, in his capacity as such assignee, in the place and stead
of the bankrupt defendants, and that he was subsequently made
a party as ordered, in pursuance of a regular citation duly served,
as appears by the return of the sheriff.
Judgment was rendered against him in the subordinate State
court as assignee of the bankrupt defendants, and the record
shows that he, as such assignee, took a devolutive appeal to the
Supreme Court of the State, where the judgment of the subordinate court was affirmed. What he alleged in that court as
the ground for claiming an appeal was, that there was error in
the judgment to his prejudice; and the judgment having been
affirmed in the Supreme Court, the assignee of the bankrupt
defendants sued out the writ of error, and removed the cause

Oct. 1876.]

NORTON, ASSIGNEE, V. SWITZER.

here for re-examination, from which it follows that it was his
duty, under the rule of this court, to assign such error as he
alleges occurred in the judgment. None of the proceedings
prior to the judgment are specifically assigned for error; from
which it may be assumed that they are correct, and they may
be passed over without further remark.
Stripped of unnecessary verbiage, the first error assigned is to
the effect that the State court was without jurisdiction to render the judgment exhibited in the transcript, for the reason that
the assignee held his office and performed the duties thereof
under the Bankrupt Act. Superadded to that is the allegation
that the judgment and proceedings of the court below were in
violation of the acts of Congress and the rights of the defendant,
which, in the judgment of the court here, is nothing more than
a repetition of the charge that the court was without jurisdiction
inthe case.
Errors must be assigned in a case like the one before the
court; and the rule is, that the assignment "shall set out
separately and specifically each error intended to be urged in
the argument of the cause."
Aided by the opinion given in the State appellate court, it
seems to be safe to assume that the assignee urged two propositions there, deduced from the decree in bankruptcy, as a ground
for reversing the judgment of the bourt of original jurisdiction,
both of which, it may be inferred from the printed argument,
were intended to be embodied here in the first assignment of
errors: 1. That the decree in bankruptcy divested the subordinate court of all authority to proceed further in the case.
2. That the court had no jurisdiction, in any point of view, to
render judgment against the assignee, even in the form exhibited
inthe record.
Much discussion of the first proposition is unnecessary, as it
is directly opposed to several provisions of the Bankrupt Act, and
particularly to that one which empowers the assignee to defend
as well as prosecute all suits at law or in equity, pending at the
time the debtor is adjudged bankrupt, in which such bankrupt
is a party. Nor does the view of the plaintiff here derive any
support from the fact that the Bankrupt Act contemplates that
the assignee shall make defence in his own name, inasmuch as

NORTON, ASSIGNEE, V. SWITZER.

[
[SUP.
Ct.

the same clause of the section provides that he may defend
in the same manner and with like effect as the suit might have
been defended by the bankrupt, which -shows conclusively that
the decree adjudging the debtor bankrupt does not ipso facto
divest the court in such a case of all jurisdiction in the premises.
Rev. Stat., sect. 5047.
Opposed to that, it is suggested that creditors having debts
provable under the Bankrupt Act are forbidden to prosecute to
judgment suits at law or in equity against the bankrupt; but it
must be borne in mind that the prohibition in that regard only
operates until the question of the debtor's discharge has been
determined. Creditors cannot sue the bankrupt, and recover
judgment against him pending the bankrupt proceedings; but
the regulation in respect to suits pending when the proceedings
commenced is special, and should receive careful consideration.
Pending suits are usually continued, at least during a reason'able time, for the.reason that the Bankript Act provides that
any such suit or proceeding shall, upon application of the
bankrupt, be stayed, if there be no unreasonable delay, to await
the decision of the bankrupt court as to the discharge of the
debtor. Applications of the kind are usually granted; but the
same section of the Bankrupt Act provides that if the amount
due the creditor is in dispute, the suit, by leave of the court in
bankruptcy, may proceed to judgment for the purpose of ascertaining the amount due, which amount may be' proved in
bankruptcy, the rule being, that the judgment ascertains the
amount, but that execution must be stayed. 14 Stat. 527; Rev.
Stat., sect. 5106.
Contradicted as the first proposition is by these several
provisions of the Bankrupt Act, it is evident that it must be
rejected as destitute of any proper foundation.
Taken literally and .without explanation, the second proposition would be correct, as it assumes that the judgment in ques-tion is a personal judgment against the assignee, to be levied
and satisfied out of his own goods and estate; which is an entire
misapprehension of its true character and legal effect, whether
the question is tested by the order making the assignee a party
to the suit, or by the form of the judgment exhibited in the
transcript. Instead of that, it is clear that the record negatives

Oct. 1876.]

NORTON, ASSIGNEE, V. SWITZER.

every such pretence. Evidence to that effect is found in the
preliminary suggestion made on behalf of the plaintiffs, which
is as follows: That since the institution of the suit the defendants
have been adjudged bankrupts, and that Emory E. Norton has
been appointed and qualified as their assignee, and it appears
that the court passed an order that thd assignee of the defendants
be made a party to the suit, in his capacity aforesaid, in place
and stead of the defendants.
Much difficulty must attend any effort to misunderstand the
true intent and meaning of that order, as it in terms makes the
person named a party to the suit in his capacity as assignee, and
in place and stead of the bankrupt' defendants, and in no other
character whatever; nor does it make any difference that the
assignee did not appear at the trial, as the record shows that he
was notified in person that he had been made a party to the
suit. Having been duly served with a citation in due form, he
might have appeared, if he had' seen fit, and objected to the
further prosecution of the suit by plea or motion; but he silently
acquiesced in the order of the court; and, two continuances
having followed, the court proceeded to hear the evidence and
render judgment for the plaintiff that he recover of the representative party, assignee of the bankrupt defendants, the sum
of $870, with legal interest until paid, with costs.
Suppose the judgment in this case must be regarded as a
judgment against the assignee in his individual character, it
would be clearly erroneous and void, as having been rendered
without jurisdiction or authority of law; but we are all of
opinion that it is not to be viewed in that light; nor is it pretended by the plaintiff below that he can proceed to take
judgment against the bankrupts with the ordinary right to take
out execution and levy it upon the property or estate of the
bankrupt defendants in the hands of th6 assignee. What he
claims is, that the judgment is a judgment against the estate of
the bankrupts under administration in the hands of the assignee,
and that he might lawfully proceed in the manner in which
suits are prosecuted against executors and administrators by
the creditors of the decedent, in order to establish the validity
and ascertain the amount of their respective claims, and that
the effect of the judgment is to fix the amount of the plaintiff's

NORTON,

ASSIG-iEE,

v. SWITZER.

[Sup. Ct.

demand against the bankrupts, which he will be entitled to file
with the assignee as the basis of his claim for a dividend.
Certain creditors of an insolvent debtor who dies pending an
action are allowed in many of the States to summoh in the
representative party and to prosecute the suit to final judgment,
with a view of ascertaining the amount of the debt; and it is
evident that the Bankrupt Act contemplates a corresponding
proceeding by the creditor of a bankrupt when it provides that
the creditor having a pending actioii against the bankrupt may,
in a certain contingency, proceed to judgment for the purpose
bf ascertaining the amount due, and when it also provides that
the amount so ascertained may be proved in bankruptcy. Exe'cution, however, cannot be issued on such a judgment, the
express provision of the same section being that the execution
shall be stayed.
Adjudged cases may be found in which it is denied that such
a judgment could be rendered under the' prior Bankrupt Act;
and those decisions are doubtless correct, for the reason that the
act under which they were made contained no such provision
as that enacted in the twenty-first section of the present Bankrupt Act. Ilinot v. Briceet, 8 Met. 560.
Persons coming in and proving their debts under the former
act were prohibited from maintaining any suit at law or in
equity for the same; and the provision was, that" all proceedings
already commenced, and all unsatisfied judgments already obtained thercon, shall be deemed to be surrendered thereby."
5 Stat. 445.
. Actions pending in favor of a creditor, under such circumstances, at the time the debtor is adjudged bankrupt under the
present Baikrupt Act, if no objection is made by the assignee
or the bankrupt court, may, due notice being-first given to the
assignee, be prosecuted to final judgment to ascertain the amount
due to the creditor; but the judgment recovered will be effectual
and operative only to establish the validity and amount of the
claim;
Notice in due form having been given to the assignee, the
judgment may be filed with him, as an ascertainment of
the amount due to the creditor, and as a basis of dividends; but
it is effectual and operative only for that purpose, the express

Oct. 1876.]

NORTON, ASSIGNEE, V. SWITZER.

requirement of the same section of the Bankrupt Act being that
the execution shall be stayed, from which it follows that the
alleged privilege on the steamboat cannot be enforced, and that
the closing words of the judgment recognizing such a privilege
are irregular, unauthorized, and inoperative.
Keeping in view the special nature of the judgment and the
limited scope of its operation, a few additional observations
will be sufficient to show that there is no merit in the second
assignment of rror, which assumes in effect that the libel in
this case is a proceeding in rem, and that the suit as such is
exclusively cognizable in the admiralty and not in the State
courts.
Libels in rem to enforce a maritime lien are exclusively
cognizable in the. courts exercising admiralty jurisdiction; but
the difficulty in, the way of the present plaintiff is, that the
closing words of the judgment to which he refers are wholly
inoperative and incapable of being enforced for any such purpose.
Special proceedings of the kind are utterly unavailing, where
the defendant is adjudged bankrupt'pending the action, and
the suit is allowed to proceed to judgment under the twenty-first
section of the Bankrupt Act, for the mere purpose of establishing
the validity of the claim and the amount due to the creditor.
Nor would it benefit the present plaintiff, in the support of his
second assignment of error, even if it were conceded that the
effect of the judgment is. to secure to the plaintiff the alleged
preference, for the reason that such a claim for services rendered to a domestic vessel does not, under the recent decision
of this court, give rise to a maritime lien in favor of the person
rendering the services. The Lottawanna,21 Wall. 571: Seamen
have a maritime lien for their wages wherever the services may
be rendered; but that just .rule was never extended to the
master, except in cases where the lien is created by statute.
Smith v. Plummer, 1 B. & Ald. 575; Wilkins v. Carmichael,
1 Doug. 101; Russey v. Christie, 9 East, 426; Maclachlan on
Ship. (2d ed..) 198; Maude & P. on Ship. (3d ed.) 91; The
Orleans, 11 Pet. 184.
Authority does not exist in the State courts to hear and
determine a suit in rem, as in the admiralty courts to enforce

COHN V.

UNITED' STATES CORST CO.

[Sup. Ct.

a maritime lien. Doubt upon that subject cannot be entertained;
but the recent decision of the court holds that such a lien does
not arise in a contract for repairs and supplies to a vessel in her
home port, and, if not, then it follows that in respect to such
contracts it is competent for the states, under the prior decisions
of the court, to create such liens as their legislatures may deem
just and expedient, not amounting to a regulation of commerce,
and to enact reasonable rules and regulations prescribing the
mode of their enforcement. The Belfast, 6 Wall. 645; The
Moses Taylor, 4 id. 427; Hine v. Trevor, id. 569.
Contract9 for ship-building are held not to be maritime contracts, and, of course, they fall within the same category; but in
all cases where a maritime lien arises, the original jurisdiction
to enforce .he same by a proceeding in rem is exclusive in the
district courts sitting in admiralty.
Costs cannot properly be taxed to the assignee before he
be.came a party to the suit. It was the assignee -that removed
the cause here, and of course he is liable for the costs in this
court. Bead v. Waterhouse, 12 Abb. Pr. N. s. 255; s. c.
52 N. Y. 588; 1olland v. Seaver, 1 Fost. 387; Penniman v.
Norton, I-Barb. Ch. 248; Smith v. Gordon, 6 Law Rep. 314.
Judgment affirmed with costs in this court.

Comr v. UNITED STATES CORSET Co-IA.,',Y.
1. To defeat a party suing for an infringement of letters-patent, it is sufficient to
plead and prove that prior to his supposed invention or diseovery the thing
patented to him had been patented, or adequately described in some printed
publication. A sufficiently certain and clear description of the thing patented is required, not of the steps necessarily antecedent to its production.
2. Letters-patent No. 137,893, issued April 15, 1873, to IMoritz Cohn, for an improvement in corsets, are invalid, the invention claimed by him having been
clearly anticipated and described in the English provisional specification of
John Henry Johnson, deposited in the Patent Office Jan. 20, 1854, and officially published in England in that year.

Appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
This was a suit for an infringement of the complainant's letters-patent, which are as follows :-

Oct. 1876.]

COHN V. UNITED STATES CORSET

C0.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

"To all to whom these presents shall come:
"Whereas, Moritz Cohn, of New York, N. Y., has presented to
the Commissioner of Patents a petition praying for the grant of letters-patent for an alleged new and useful improvement in corsets,
a description of which invention is contained in the specification, of
which a copy is hereunto annexed and made a part hereof, and has
complied with the various requirements of law in such cases made
and provided; and,
"Whereas, upon due examination made, said claimant is adjudged to be justly entitled to a patent under the law:
"Now, therefore, these letters-patent are to grant unto the said
Moritz Cohn, his heirs or assigns, for the term of seventeen years
from the fifteenth day of April, 1873, the exclusive right to make,
use, and vend the said -invention throughout the United States and
the Territories thereof.
"In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused
the seal of the Patent Office to be affixed, at the city of Washington, this fifteenth day of April, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventy-three, and of the Independence of
the United States of America the ninety-seventh.
"Countersigned,
"B. R. CoWEN,
"Acting Secretary of the Interior.

[L. s.]

"M. D. LEGGETT,
" Commissioner of Patents."
UNITED STATES PATENT OFFICE.

Improvement in Corsets.
"Specification forming part of letters-patent No. 137,893, dated
April 15, 1873 ; application filed JaH. 30, 1873.
"To all whom it may concern:
"Be it known that I, Moritz Cohn, of. New York City, in the
State of New York, have invented certain new and useful improvements in corsets; and I do hereby declare that the following is a
full and exact description thereof, reference being had to the accompanying drawing making part of this application : "Previous to my invention, it has been customary, in the manufacture of corsets, to weave the material with pocket-like openings
or passages running through from edge to edge, or all stopped and
finished off at a uniform distance from the edge, and adapted to
receive the bones, which are inserted to stay the woven fabric, and

