664

HERVEY ET AL. V. R.I. LOCOMOTIVE WORKS.

[Sup. Ct.

HERvBY ET AL. v. RHODE ISLAND LOCOOTrVE WORKS.

1. The doctrine announced in Green v. Van Buskirk, 5 Wall. 307, id. 139,- that
the liability of property to be sold under legal process, issuing from the
courts of the State where it is situated, must be determined by the law of
that State rather than the law of the jurisdiction where the owner lives, reaffirmed.
2. The real owner of personal property, who vests another, to whom it is delivered, with an interest therein, must, if desirous- of preserving a lien on it
in Illinois, compJy with the requirements of the chattel-mortgage act of that
State.
3.Where personal property has been sold and delivered, secret liens, which
treat the vendor as its owner until tile payment of the purchase-money,
cannot be maintained in Illinois. They are held to be constructively
fraudulent as to creditors, and the property, so far as their rights are
concerned, is considered as belonging to the vendee holding the possession.
4. Nor is the transaction changed by the agreement assuming the form of a lease.
The courts look to the purpose of the parties ; and, if that purpose be to
give the vendor a lien on the property until payment in full of the purchase-money, it is liable to be defeated by creditors of the vendee who is
in possession of it.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern Distrieb of Illinois.
On the twenty-first day of August, 1871, the Rhode Island
Locomotive Works entered into a contraet with J. Edwin
Conant & Co., as follows : "This agreement, made this twenty-first day of August, 1871,
by and between the Rhode Island Locomotive Works of Providence, R. I., party of the first part, and J. Edwin Conant & Co.,
contractors for the Chicago & Illinois Southern Railroad Co., party
of the second part, witnesseth :
"That whereas the said party of the fitst part is the owner of
one locomotive-engine and tender complete, named Alfred N.
Smyser, No. 3; and whereas the said party of the second part is
desirous of using and eventually purchasing the same : now, therefore, in consideration of the sum of one dollar to the said party of
the first part by the said party of the second part in hand paid, the
receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, and in consideration of
the covenants and agreements hereinafter dontained, the said party
of the first part agrees to let and lease, and hereby does let and
lease, to the said.patty of the second part, and the said part" of

Oct. 1876.]

HERvEy ET AL. v. R. I. LocobioTIvE WORKS.

665

the second part agrees to have and take from the said party of the
first pait, the said one locomotive-engine and tender, with the right
to place the same upon its railroad, and to use the same in the
usual manner in transacting the business of the said railroad; and
in consideration thereof the said party of the second part hereby
covenants and agrees to pay to the said party of the first part for
the use and rent of the same the sum of $12,093.96 in notes, as
follows :-

10% cash .....
...............
One note due Feb. 24, 1872 ..
.......
One ,
,, May 24, 1872 ..
.......
One ,
,, Aug. 24, 1872.
........

$1,150.00
.3,580.16
.3,647.90
3,715.90

$12,093.96
"And the said party of the second part hereby further covenants
and agrees, during the time hereby demised, to keep and. maintain
the said one locomotive-engine and tender in as good condition as
it now is, reasonable and ordinary wear and tear excepted; but it
is understood and agreed, that any injury by collision, by running
off the track, or by fire, or by destruction from any cause, is not to
be considered reasonable and ordinary wear and tear.
"And the said party of the first part, in consideration of the
foregoing, further covenants and agrees, that in case said party of
the second part shall pay the said notes promptly, as hereinbefore
set forth, upon payment of the last-mentioned note, viz., $3,715.90,
and all renewals of same, it will grant, sell, assign, transfer, and
convey to the said party of the second part the said one locomotiveengine and tender in the condition it then is, to have and to hold
the same to the said party of the second part, its legal representatives, successors, and assigns for ever. And the said party of the
second part further covenants and agrees, that if it shall fail to
make any of the said payments when due, then the said party of the
first part shall be at liberty, and it shall be lawful for it, to enter
upon and take possession of the said one locomotive-engine and
tender, and to that end to enter upon the road and other property
of said party of the second part.
"And the said party of the second part further covenants and
agrees, that, in case of any default on its part in any of the payments, as hereiblbefore provided, it will, within thirty days thereafter, deliver the said one locomotive-engine and tender to the said
party of the first part.

666

HERVEY ET AL. v. R. I. LocOMOTIVE WORKS.

[Sup: Ct.

"And the said party of the first part shall thereafter, upon thirty
days' written notice to the said party of the second part of the
times and place of sale, proceed to sell the said one locomotiveengine and tender, and shall apply the proceeds of such sales, first,
to the payment of the expenses of the sale; second, to the payment of any balance then due, or thereafter to become due, for
or on account of the rent, as hereinbefore provided; and, if after
these payments there shall remain any balance of the proceeds
of the sale, the same shall be paid to the said party of the second
part.
"And the said party of the second part further covenants and
agrees, that they will not in any way exercise or claim the right to
release, incumber, or in any way dispose of said one locomotiveengine and tender, or employ them during the term of this lease in
aihy other way than in the service of J. Edwin Conant & Co., contractors for the Chicago & Illinois Southern Railroad Company,
or in any way or manner interfere with the said party of the first
part in repossessing and retaking said one locomotive-engine and
tender, should default be made in any of the hereinbefore provided
for payments, but the full'legal right and title of said one locomotive-engine and tender shall and does remain in the Rhode Island
Locomotive 'Works, as fully, to all intents and purposes, as though
the lease had not been made.
"And the said party of the first part hereby covenants and
agrees, that if the said party. of the second part shall and do well
and truly make each of the payments aforesaid at the times hereinbefore specified, without any let or hindrance or delay whatever as
to any or either of said payments, that upon the last-mentioned
payment, viz., S3,715.90, and all renewals being made, as well as
each and all of the other said payments, the said party of the first
part will and shall convey the said one locomotive-engine and tender to the said party of the second part, and give them a full acquittance for the same, and that the title. thereto shall irsofacto,
by the completion of such payment, vest in the said J. Edwin Conant & Co., contractors for the Chicago & Illinois Southern Railroad Company.
"In witness whereof, the parties hereto have hereunto set the
corporate seal, by the respective officers duly authorized.
"RHODE ISLAND LOCOMOTIVE WORKS.
"EDw. P. MAsON, Treasurer.
J. EDWIN- CONANT & CO.,
"J.
ConaNt
w
C lPo. .
Conractors C. 4- Ill. So. R.R."

SEAL RHODE ISLAND
LOCOMOTIVE WORKS,
ROVIDENCE, R. i.

Oct. 1876.]

HERVEY ET AL.

v. R. I. LocOMoTIVE WORKS.

'667

Which agreement was indotsed as follows :
"STATE

OF ILLINOIS, CUMBERLAND

COUNTY:

"I hereby certify that the within instrument was filed in this
office for record on the twenty-eighth day of January, 1873, at
two o'clock P.m., and duly recorded in book D of mortgages, page
485, and examined.

SANDREW

CARSON,

" Clerk and Ex-Oficio Recorder."

It was admitted that the agreement was executed at its
place of business, in Rhode Island, by the Rhode Island Locomotive Works, and in New York by Conant & Co., where they
resided; that Conant & Co. paid no part of the principal of
the purchase-money, except the amount admitted on the face
of the agreement; and that they obtained possession of said
engine and its tender under said agreement, and took it to
Illinois.
On the 28th of October, 1871, by virtue of a writ of attachment issued out of the Court of Common Pleas of Coles County,
Illinois, in an action of assumpsit wherein Conant & Co. were
defendants, the sheriff seized the Smyser as their property, and
sold it to the plaintiff in error, Hervey.
On the 29th of January, 1873, the marshal of the United
States for the southern district of Illinois took possession of the
Smyser under a writ of replevin sued out of the Circuit Court
of the United States for that district by the Rhode Island
Locomotive Works against Hervey, and the Paris and Decatur
Railroad Company.
At the trial, the court below found a special verdict as
follows : -

That the lease offered in evidence by plaintiff was a subsisting executory contract between the parties thereto.
That the plaintiff had not parted with the legal possession
of the locomotive in controversy.
That the plaintiff had never received payment for the locomotive in controversy other or further than as stated in the
face of their lease.
That the plaintiff delivered to Conant & Co. the said locomotive to be used by them in Illinois, and that said locomotive
was so used in that State.

668

HERvEY ET AL.

v. R. I. LocooTIv

WORKS.

[Sup'. Ct.

That the possession of Conant & Co. was the possession of
the plaintiff.
That the defendant obtained possession of the locomotive in
controversy in due form 6f law, under execution, levy, and
sale, in. pursuance of a valid judgment obtained in a court
of competent jurisdiction, after due service upon the parties
thereto in a suit against Conant & Co.
That a sale under said execution was, by an officer duly authorized thereto, made to the defendant, Robert G. Hervey, and
that payment was made, in the full amount bid at said sale, by
said Iervey to said officer, and that the said officer delivered
the said locomotive to said Hervey.
That, subsequent to such sale and delivery by said officer to
said Hervey, plaintiffs placed upon record, in the proper recorder's office in the county of Coles, in the State of Illinois,
where the said property was held, the said lease, in the chattelmortgage records in said county.
That such recording of said lease was more than one year
subsequent to the sale of said locomotive under said execution
and levy.
That said sale by said officer to said Hervey was under a
special execution, as shown by the public records of said Coles
County.
Wherefore the court.found for the plaintiff, and gave judgment accordingly.
The d4fendants 'thereupon brought the case here.
1r. Robert G. Ingersoll, for the plaintiffs in error.
1. The contract between the defendant in error and Conant
& Co. is subject to the laws of Illinois. An agreement that
the vendor of personal property shall, after possession is delivered to the vendee, retain the ownership until the payment of
the purchase-money, is void as to the creditors of the vendee.
lfcCormick v. ifadden, 37 Ill. 370; Ketchum v. Watson, 24
id. 591; Thompson v. ,Yeck, 21 id. 73; .lrch v. Wright, 46
id. 487.
2., The lien of the vendor can only be preserved by his compliance with the Chattel-Mortgage Act.
Mlr. if. S. Greene and M}fr. D. T. Littler, contra.
The Chattel--lMortgage Act has nothing whatever to do

Oct. 1876.]

HERVEY ET AL. V.

R. I. Loco1IOTIVE

WORKS.

669

with the case. The portions- of that act which require the
recording of the instrument within less than five years refer
solely to cases in which a party, having once been the owner
of chattels, seeks to sell or pledge them and yet retain possession.
The only statutory provisions which relate to cases like
this are directly against the position assumed by plaintiff in
error.
They are found in the Statute of Frauds, and are intended to
cover cases in which possession of chattels has been delivered
to one who never had the title, while the ownership remains
in another. Peters v. Smith, 42 Ill. 416.
Defendant in error resided in Rhode Island; Conant & Co.
in New York. The construction and effect of the contract
depended on the laws of those. States, as it was made there.
If they, when applied to the contract, did not vest the title
in Conant & Co., but held them to be mere bailees, that relation followed them to Illinois, unless some positive provision
of local law changed their status. Black v. Zacharie, 3 How.
483.
There was no rule of Illinois law which operated to divest
the title of defendant in error. In fact, the question at issue
is one of commercial law. Such contracts are almost universal
in this country.
An examination of -41turchv. JY'ight, 46 Ill. 488, relied upon
by the other side, will sho-w that the rule contended for was
not a settled one in Illinois. The very cases cited by the court
show that there was not a full consideration of the question.
In one of them, - Jennings v. Sage, 13 Ill. 613, - the court
makes the very distinction for which we 'now contend. It
says, "This was a case of fraudulent sale, of possession obtained fraudulently, in a case where the vendor intended to
have the title pass with the possession. It was not a conditional sale where possession is given but title is not intended
to pass with possession. It is insisted that as between plaintiff
and Jennings, tho law is that as between them, both parties
being innocent, the loss should fall on the own-e.rs who, br
intrusti g Van Valin with the possession, enabled him to commit a fraud. This is unquestionably the law where owners

670

HrRYVEY ET AL. v. R.

I. LocoMrOTIVE WORKS.

[Sup. Ct.

with the intention of sale have voluntarily parted with possession. But this principle does not apply to sales on condition,
and where the original owners have -never consented to the
transfer of the property."
Bundag-e v. Camp, 21 Il1. 330, is also relied upon in ifurch
v. Wright, as authority for the conclusion there reached. Yet
in that case the court say, "This is a case where the plaintiff,
with the intention of selling, or changing the title, parted with
the possession, relying on the vendee to give a second note at
a future day, and is like in its principle to the case of 13
id. 613."
In A.IcCormick v. ifadden, 37 Ill. 370, horses had been sold
by one brother to another, with the agreement that a chattel mortgage should be made by the latter for the purchasemoney. The mortgage was not made. The vendee, after
the lapse of a year, mortgaged the horses to' a third party.
The very fact that he was to execute a mortgage was evidence that the title was intended to pass to him from the beginning; and it might well be held that the vendor, by not
taking a mortgage foi such a length of time, had waived the
condition, and looked to the credit of the vendee for the
purchase-money.
Ketchtum v. Watson, 24 Ill. 591, does not support the doctrine of lJurch v. Wright. An absolute sale was there made
with delivery. The purchaser could not pay, so a resale was
made, but not a redelivery. The property, as to third parties,
was held to remain in the first purchaser.
It is thus shown that the rule was not settled in Illinois at
the time when this agreement was made; for ITIurch v. Wright,
ill considered as it was, and in conflict with the very cases
relied upon to support it, cannot be regarded as settling the
law. It requires something more than this to change the relations of parties lawfully created in other States. The defendant in error, residing in Rhode Island, cannot be held guilty
of violating the policy of Illinois, with respect to a mere
rule of commercial law. This court, while paying all respect
to State courts as to matters peculiarly within their jurisdiction, will settle the principles of the common law and of the
lMw of commerce for itself. As to the effect of the condi-

Oct. 1876.]

HERvEY ET AL. v. R. I. LocomIOTIVE WORKS.

671

tional sale being as we contend, the weight of' authority is
overwhelming.
Chancellor Kent says, vol. ii. p. 497, " When there is a condition precedent attached to a contract of sale and delivery,
the property does not vest in the vendee on delivery until he
perform the condition."
Hilliard on Sales lays down the same rule, vol. iii. sect. 2.
It is admitted by the Supreme Court of Illinois that such
an agreement is good between the parties. The authorities
are quite as numerous that it is good against everybody. Patton v. lfeCave, 15 B. Mon. (Ky.) 555; Tomlinsons v. Collins,
20 Conn. 364, 2 Pick. (Mass.) 512, and 4 id. 449; Reed v.
Upton, 9 id. 156; Haven v. Emory, 33 N. H. 66; Sargeant v.
Gile, 8 id. 325; Porter v. Pettingall, 12 id. 299; Buckmaster
v. Smith, 22 Vt. 203; Armington v. Houston, 38 id. 448; Strong
v. Taylor, 2 Hill (N. Y.), 326; Little v. Page, 44 Mo. 412;
Forbes v. farsh, 15 Conn. 384; Ballard v. Boguett, 47 Barb.
648; Whitney v. Eaton, 15 Gray (Mass.), 225; Bueher v. Hall,
15 Iowa, 277; Humble v. Ackly, 12 id. 27; 1 Parsons on Contracts, 441; Story on Sales, sect. 313; Sambling v. Bead,
1 Miss. 281; Copeland v. Barrett, 4 Wash. 594; Gayler v.
Dyer, 5 Cranch, C. C. 461; In re Lyon, 4 Chicago Legal
News, 421.
MAR. JUsTICE DAvis delivered the opinion of the court.
It was decided by this court, in Green v. TTan Buskirk, 5
Wall. 307, 7 id. 139, that the liability of property to be sold
under legal process, issuing from the courts of the State where
it is situated, must be determined by the law there, rather than
that of the jurisdiction where the owner lives. These decisions
rest on the ground that ever.y State has the right to regulate
the transfer of property within its limits, aud that whoever
sends property to it impliedly submits to the regulations concerning its transfer in force there, although a different rule
of transfer prevails in the jurisdiction where he resides. He
has no absolute right to have the transfer of property, lawful in that jurisdiction, respected in the courts of the State
where it is found, and it is only on a principle of comity
that it is ever allowed. But this principle- yields when the

672

HERVEY ET AL. V.

R. I.

LoCOMOTIVE WORKS.

[Sup. Ct.

laws and policy of the latter State conflict with those of the
former.
The policy of the law in Illinois will not permit the owner of
personal property to sell it, either absolutely or conditionally,
and still continue in possession of it. Possession is one of the
strongest evidences of title to this class of property, and cannot be rightfully separated from the title, except in the manner pointed out by statute. The courts of Illinois say that to
suffer without notice to the world the real ownership to be in
ohe person, and the ostensible ownership in another, gives a
false credit to the latter, and in this way works an injury
to third persons. Accordingly, the actual owner of personal
property creating an interest in another, to whom it is delivered, if desirous of preserving a lien on it, must comply
with the provisions of the Chattel-Mlortgage Act. R. S. Ill.
1874, 711, 712. It requires that the instrument of conveyance, if it have the effect to preserve a mortgage or lien on
the 1property, must be recorded, whether the party to it be a
resident or non-resident of the State. If this be not done,
the instrument, so far as third persons are concerned, has no
validity.
Secret liens which treat the vendor of personal property, who
has delivered possession of it to the purchaser, as the owner
until the payment of the purchase-money, cannot be maintained
in Illinois. They are held to be constructively fraudulent as
to creditors, and the property, so far as their rights are concerned, is considered as belonging to the purchaser holding the
lcCormick v. .Jladden, 37 Ill. 370; Ketchum v.
possession.
Watson, 24 id. 591. Nor is the transaction changed by the
agreement assuming the form of a lease. In determining the
real character of a contract, courts will always look to its purpose, rather than to the name given to it by the parties. If
that purpose be to give the vendor a lien on the property until
payment in full of the purchase-money, it is liable to be defeated by creditors of the purchaser who is in possession of it.
This was held in Murch v. Wright, 46 id. 488. In that case the
purchaser took from the seller a piano at the price of $700.
He paid $50 down, which was called rent for the first month,
and agreed to pay, as rent, $50 each month, until the whole

Oct. 1876.]

HERVEY ET AL.

v. R. I. Loco OTivE WORKS.

673

amount should be paid, when he was to own the piano. The
court held, "that it was a mere subterfuge to call this transaction a lease," and that it was a conditional sale, with the right
of rescission on the part of the vendor, in case the purchaser
should fail in payment of his instalments, - a contract legal and
valid as between the parties, but subjecting the vendor to lose
his lien in case the property, while in possession of the purchaser, should be levied upon by his creditors. That case and
the one at bar are alike in all essential particulars.
The engine Smyser, the only subject of controversy in this
suit, was sold on condition that each and all of the instalments should be regularly paid, with a right of rescission on
the part of the vendor in case of default in any of the specified
payments.
It is true the instrument of conveyance purports to be a lease,
and the sums stipulated to be paid are for rent; but this form
was used to cover the real transaction, as much so as was the
rent of the piano in Murch v. Wright, supra. There the price
of the piano was to be paid in thirteen months, and here, that
of the engine, $12,093.96, in one year. It was evidently not
the intention that this large sum should be paid as rent for the
mere use of the engine for one year. If so, why agree to sell
and convey the full title on the payment of the last instalment? In both cases, the stipulated price of the property was
to be paid in short instalments, and no words employed by the
parties can have the effect of changing the true nature of the
contracts. In the case at bar the agreement. contemplated that
the engine should be removed to the State of Illinois, and used
by Conant & Co., in the prosecution of their business as constructors of a railroad. It was accordingly taken there and
put to the use for whic]h it was purchased; but while in the
possession of Conant & Co., who exercised complete ownership
over it, it was seized and sold, in the local courts of Illinois, as
their property. These proceedings were valid in the jurisdiction where they took place, and must be respected by the
Federal tribunals.
The Rhode Island Locomotive Works took the risk of losing
its lien in case the property, while in the possession of Conant
& Co., should be levied on by their creditors, and it cannot
VOL. 11.

43

KIBBE v. DimTO ET AL.

[Sup. Ot.

complain, as the laws of Illinois pointed out a way to preserve
and perfect its lien.
By stipulation the judgment of the court below is affirmed as
to the locomotive Olney, No. 1.
As to the locomotive and tender called Alfred N. Smyser,
No. 3,
Judgment reversed.
NOTE. -7ndianapolis, Bloomfnton, and IMestern Railway Company v. Rhode rsland
Locomotice Works, error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Illinois, was argued by the counsel who appeared in the preceding
case. For the reasons there given, the judgment was reversed.

KiwE v. DiTro -ET AL.
The act of the general assembly of Illinois, entitled "An Act to protect married
women in their separate property," approved Feb. 21, 1861, repeals, by implication, so much of the saving clause of the Statute of Limitations of 1839 as
relates to married women.

EPROI to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Submitted on printed arguments by lIr. T. C. Goudy for the
plaintiff in error, and by ir. T. G. Frost for the defendants in
error.
M.n. JUSTICE DAvIs delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendants in this action of ejectment, which was commenced March 20, M872,
for a quarter-section of land in Mercer
County, Illinois, pleaded not guilty. A verdict and a judgment were rendered in their favor. The plaintiff sued out this
writ of error.
William 111. O'Hara, the owner in fee of the land, died intestate in the'summer of 1821, leaving a widow, who outlived him
less than a year, and four children, three of whom died intestate. Helen, their surviving sister, inherited their respective
interests. She intermarried, Sept. 23, 1840, with Abram D.
Harrel, who died Dec. 16, 1871. Said Abram and Helen, by
deed executed Mlay 2, 1868, conveyed the land to the plaintiff,
who thus showed a clear primafacie right to recover.

