586

UNITED STATES V. THOMPSON ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

proportion, or any part, of the property. Certainly not, unless
the goods of both owners are of the same quality and value.
Such intermixture is a fraud. And so, if the wrong-doer confounds his own goods with goods which he suspects may belong
to another, and does this with intent to mislead or deceive
that other, and embarrass him in obtaining his right, the effect
must be the same. Thus it was ruled in Ryder v. Hathaway, 21 Pick. 306. Such is the present case. The confusion
of the bales of cotton was not accidental. It was purp6sely
made. The intermixture was evidently intended to render any
identification of particular bales impracticable, and to cover
them agaiist the search of a suspected owner. It was, therefore, wrongful. And the bales were not of uniform value.
They. differed in weight and in grade. But even if they were
of the same kind and value, the wronged party would have a
right to the possession of the entire aggregate, leaving the
wrong-doer to reclaim his own, if he can identify it, or to demand his proportional part. Stephenson v. Little, 10 Mich. 447.
The libellants have made no attempt to identify any part.
See, upon this subject of confusion of. goods, 2 Kent's Com.
(11th ed.) 364, 365; Hart v. -Ten ByEck, 2 Johns. Ch. 62, 108;
JTeil v. Silverston, 6 Bush (Ky.), 698; Hesseltine v. Stockwell,
30 Me. 370.
It follows from all we have said that the delivery by the
"Idaho" of the one hundred and sixty-five bales, to the order
of Porter & Co., was justifiable, and that the libellants have
sustained no legal injury.
-Decreeaffirmed.

UmnTED STATES v. THomwSN ET AL.
Judgments in the State courts against the United States cannot be brought here
for re-examination upon a writ of error, except in cases where the same relief
would be afforded to private parties.

ERROr to the Court of Appeals of the State of Maryland.

In the progrds6 of a suit pending in the Circuit Court of
Queen Anne's County, Md., to settle the affairs of McFreely &
Hopper, an insolvent partnership, and to collect and apply the

Oct. 1876.]

UNITED STATES v. THOniPsoN ET AL.

assets of the firm to the payment of its liabilities, the United
States presented a petition for the allowance of a claim in
their favor, and its payment out of the fund in court in preference to other creditors, on account of the priority given to
debts due the United States by the act of March 3, 1797.
1 Stat. 515, sect. 5; Rev. Stat. sect. 3466.
This petition was referred to an auditor, to take testimony,
and report. The facts, as they appear in his report, are substantially as follows Thompson, one of the appellees, was a deputy-collector of
internal revenue for the first district of Maryland. In the
course of his business he permitted McFreely & Hopper to
dispose of and receive the money for internal-revenue stamps,
which had been furnished him by the United States to sell.
On a settlement with the firm, in December, 1865, there was
found due him on that account between $1,500 and $1,600.
During the same month of December he held checks received
from various parties in payment of internal-revenue taxes, and
these he indorsed and delivered to the firm to collect for him.
The money was collected, and deposited in bank to the credit
of the firm. Some time in February, 1866, the firm gave
Thompson a check for $3,000, to pay the amount due him for
stamps and checks, - viz., $2,537,- and an amount that was due
to him on account of other transactions. With this check, and
other checks and current hotes, be obtained from the National
Exchange Bank of Baltimore a certificate of deposit payable
to the treasurer of the United States, for about $24,000. This
was at once remitted to the treasurer, to whom it was afterwards paid. Some days after, the check of McFreely & Hopper was protested; ,and Thompson took it up from the National
Exchange Bank, using therefor moneys belonging to the
United States in his hands as deputy-collector. Sept. 1, 1866,
McFreely & Hopper took up the check from him, paying in
money all but $2,537, and giving him their note for that
amount, with two sureties, payable one day after date.
This note Thompson presented for allowance, as a claim
in his favor. The United States claimed, on account of the
money originally received for the stamps sold and checks
collected.

UNITED STATES

v.

THOMPSON ET AL.

[Sup. t

The auditor reported against the United States, upon the
ground, that, even if they ever had any claim against the firm,
it was extinguished by the payment of the certificate of deposit
to the treasurer. The report of the auditor was confirmed by
the Circuit Court, and a decree entered accordingly. This
decree was affirmed by the judgment of the court of appeals.
The present writ of error to that court was sued out.
Mr. Ass istant Attorney- eneral Smith for the plaintiff in
error. No opposing counsel.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
Judgments in the State 'courts against the United St~tes
cannot be broughu here for re-examination upon a writ of error,
except in cases where the same relief would be afforded to
private parties. It was conceded upon the argument in behalf
of the United States, that the question of priority of payment,
under the laws of the United States, was not decided in the
court below, because it was found that there was no debt due.
With this concession, which could not be avwided, it is difficult
to see what Federal question there is in the record.
It appears affirmatively that the Circuit Court rejected the
claim, because it had been paid; and the presumption, in the
absence of any showing to the contrary, is, that the Court
of Appeals based its decision upon the same ground. But,
in addition to thi., on looking into the opinion which has
been sent here as part of the record in that court, we find
that all questions as to the original liability of MeFreely &
Hopper to the United States were expressly waived, and the
decision placed solely upon the ground that "any claim the
United States may have ever had against-the firm, growing
out of these dealings with Thompson, has been paid and extinguished."
It is not contended that this decision is repugnant to the
Constitution, or any law or treaty of the United States; but
the argument is, that, as the check of MeFreely & Hopper was
not paid, it did not pay their debt. Whether this is so or not,
does not depend upon any statute of the United States, but
upon the principles of general law alone. We have many

Oct. 1876.]

MACKIE ET AL. V.

STORY.

times held that we have no power to review the decisions of
the State courts upon such questions. Bethel v. Demaret, 10
Wall. 537; _Delmas' v. Ins. Go., 14 id. 666 ; Ins. Co. v. Hendren, 92 U. S.287; Rockhold v. Rockhold, id. 130.
Writ dismissed.

MACIE ET A.L. V. STORY.
1. In Louisiana, a legacy to two persons, "to be divided equally between them,"
is a conjoint one. If but one of them survives the testator, he is entitled,
by accretion, to the whole of the thing bequeathed.
2. Parol evidence, to show the intention of the testator, is not admissible.

to the Circuit Court of the UnitedI States for the
District of Louisiana.:
Submitted on printed arguments by Mr. aeorge L. Bright
for the plaintiffs in error, and by Mr.John Finney and Mr.
Henry C. Miller, contra.
ERROR

MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

Norman Story, of the city of New Orleans, now deceased,
made his will, dated April 24, 1867, the third paragraph of
which was in these words: "I will and bequeath to Henry C.
Story and Benjamin S. Story all properties I die possessed of, to
be divided equally between them." The legatees were brothers of the deceased, and Henry died before him, leaving chil.
dren; Benjamin survived. The question in this case is, whether
the whole legacy accrued to Benjamin, the survivor, or whether
only one half of it did so, lbaving the deceased intestate as to
the other half.
On the trial, the children of Henry C. Story offered parol
evidence to show the good-will and affection of the deceased
towards him, for the purpose of demonstrating the intention
of the testator in the bequest. This evidence was properly
rejected. The paper must speak for itself, and its meaning and
effect be ascertained by the court.
The court below decided that the legacy was a conjoint one,
and that by the right of accretion the whole of it accrued to
Benjamin'; and in this opinion we concur. The civil law does

