634

HLEYDENFELDI v. DANEY GOLD, Ec. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

The assignment relates back to the -commencement of the
proceedings in bankruptcy, and vests, by operation of law, in
the assignee the property of the bankrupt, with certain specified exceptions, although the same be then attached. It also
dissolves any attachment made' within four months next preceding the commencement of the proceedings. If there be no
such liens, and the property has not been conveyed in fraud of
creditors, he has no greater interest in or better title to it than
the bankrupt. Only the defeasible title of the latter to the
goods in controversy passed to the assignee, and it was determined by a prompt disaffirmance of the contract.
Judgment affirmed.

HEYDENFELDT v.

DAxY GOLD AND SILvER MnINlG
COMPANY.

1. At the time of the passage of the Nevada Enabling Act, approved March 21,
1864 (13 Stat. 30), sections 16 and 36 in the several townships in Nevada
had not been surveyed, nor had Congress then made, or authorized to be
made, any disposition of the public domain within her limits.
2. The words of present grant in the seventh section of that act are restrained
by words of -qualification which were intended to protect the proposed new
State against loss that might happen through the subsequent action of Congress in selling or disposing of the public domain. If by such sale or disposal the whole or any part of the sixteenth or thirty-sixth section in any
township, was lost to the State, she was to be compensated by other lands
equivalent thereto, in legal subdivisions of not less than one-quarter section
each.
8. A qualified person, whose settlement on mineral lands which embrace a part
of either of said sections was prior to the survey of them by the United
States, and who, on complying with the requirements of the act approved
July 26, 1866 (14 Stat. 251), received a patent for such lands from the
United States, has a better title thereto than has the holder of an older
patent therefor from the State.
4. The legislative act of Nevada, of Feb. 13, 1867, recognized the validity of the
claim of the United States to the mineral lands within that State.

R .Or to the Supreme Court of the State of Nevada.
This is an action of ejectment brought by Heydenfeldt in the
District Court of the First Judicial District of Nevada, against
the Daney Gold and Silver Mining Company. The case was
tried by the court, which found the following facts: -

Oct. 1876.]

HEYDENFELDT

v.

DANEY

GOLD, ETC. CO.

635

On the fourteenth day of July, 1868 the. State of Nevada
issued to one William Webelhuth its patent for the west half of
the south-west quarter of section 16, township 16 north, range
21 east -(lying in Lyon County, State of Nevada), Mount
Diablo base and meridian, containing eighty acres, according
to the official plat of the survey of public lands as made by the
United States surveyor-general for the district of Nevada;
which said patent was recorded in the recorder's office of the
county of Lyon on the twenty-fifth day. of July, 1868, and was
issued by the State authorities, under and by virtue of the
statute of Nevada, conveying -lands assumed to have been
granted to the State by the act of Congress approved March
21, 1864, entitled "An Act to enable the people- of the Territory of Nevada to form a State government upon certain conditions."
On the eighteenth day of August, 1873, William Webelhuth,
by deed of conveyance duly signed, sealed, and acknowledged,
conveyed the same premises to one Philip Kitz, which deed
was recorded in the recorder's office of the county of Lyon
Jan. 13, 1874.
On the ninth day of January, 1814, Philip Kitz, by deed
duly signed, sealed, and acknowledged, conveyed the same
premises to this plaintiff, which said deed was duly recorded in
the recorder's office of the county of Lyon on the same day.
The defendant is in the possession of the premises. The
plaintiff, prior to bringing this action, denanded the possession
thereof, but the same was refused.
On the second day of March, 1874, the United States, by its
proper authorities, granted to the defendant, by its patent, in
due and regular form, lot No. 72, embracing a portion of section 16, in township 16 north of range 21 east, Mount Diablo
meridian, in the Devil's Gate mining district, in the county of
Lyon and State of Nevada, in the district of lands -subject to
sale at Carson City, embracing thirteen (13) acres and seventyeight one hundredths (- %-) of an acre, more or less, with the
exclusive right of possession and enjoyment. of all the land
included within the exterior lines of the survey of said premises
not expressly excepted, and of two thousand linear teet of
Mammoth Lode ledge, vein, or deposit for said two thousand

638

HEYDENFELDT V. DAN'EY GOLD, ETC. CO.

[Sup. Ct.

ter title is the point for decision. As it has been the settled
policy of the government to promote the development of the
mining resources of the country, and -as mining is the chief
industry in Nevada, the question. is of great interest to her
people.
It is true that there are words of present grant in this law;
but, in construing it, we are not to look at any single phrase in
it, but to its whole scope, in order to arrive at the intention of
the makers of it. "It is better always," says Judge Sharswood, "to adhere to a plain common-sense interpretation of
the words of a statute, than to apply to them refined and
C/ger's Estate,
technical rules of grammatical construction.
65 Penn. St. 312. If a literal interpretation of any part of
it would operate unjustly, or lead to absurd results, or be
contrary to the evident me;,ning of the act taken as a whole,
it should be rejected. There is no better way of discovering its true meaning, when expressions in it are rendered
ambiguous by their connection with other clauses, than by
considering the necessity for it, and the causes which induced
its enactment. With these rules as our guide, it is not difficult, we .think, to give a true construction to the law under
consideration.
Congress, at the time, was desirous that. the people of the
Territory of Nevada should form a State government, and come
into the Union. The terms of admission were proposed, and,
as was customary in previous enabling acts, the particular sections of the public lands to bhe donated to the new State for the
use of common schools were specified. These sections had not
been surveyed, nor had Congress then made, or authorized to
be made, any disposition of the national domain within that
Territory.
But this condition of things did not deter Congress from
making the necessary provision .to place, in this respect, Nevada on an equal footing with States then recently admitted.
Her people were not interested in getting the identical sections 16 and 36 in every township. Indeed, it could not be
known until after a survey where they would fall, and a grant
of quantity put her in as good a condition as the other States
which had received the benefit of this bounty. A grant, oper-

Oct. 1876.]

HEYDENFELDT

v.

DANEY GOLD,

EC. Co.

639

ating at once, and attaching prior to the strveys by the United
States, would deprive Congress of the power of disposing of any
part of the lands in Nevada, until they were segregated. from
those granted. In the mean time, further improvements would
be arrested, and the persons, who prior to the surveys had
occupied and improved the country, would lose their possessions
and labor, in case it turned out that they had settled upon the
specified sections. Congress was fully advised of the condition of Nevada, of the evils which such a measure would entail
upon her, and of all antecedent legislation upon the subject
of the public lands within her bounds. In the light of this
information, and surrounded by these circumstances, Congress
made the grant in question. It is ambiguous; for its different
parts cannot be reconciled, if the words used receive their usual
meaning. Schulenberg v. Harriman,21 Wall. 44, establishes
the rule that "unless there are other clauses in a statute
restraining the operation of words of present grant, these must
be taken in their natural sense." We do not seek to depart
from this sound rule; but, in this instance, words of qualification
restrict the operation of those of present grant. Literally construed, they refer to past transactions; but evidently they were
not employed in this sense, for no -lands in Nevada had been
sold or disposed of by any act of Congress. There was no occasion of making provision for substituted lands, if the grant took
effect absolutely on the admission of the State into the Union,
and the title to the lands then vested in the State. Congress
cannot be supposed to have intended a vain thing, and yet it is
quite certain that the language of the qualification was intended
to protect the State against a loss that might happen through
the action of Congress in selling or disposing of the public
domain. It could not, as we have seen, apply to past sales or
dispositions, and, to have any effect at all, must be held to apply
to the future.
This interpretation, although seemingly contrary to the letter
of the statute, is really within its reason and spirit. Itaccords
with a wise public policy, gives to Nevada all she could reasonably ask, and acquits Congress of passing a law whicl in its
effects would be unjust to the people of the Territory. Besides,
no other construction is consistent with the statute as a whole,

640

.

HEYDENFELDT v. DANEY GOLD, ETC. CO.

[Sup. Ct.

and answers the evident intention of its makers to grant to the
State in presenti a quantity of lands equal in amount to the
16th and 36th sections in each township. Until the status of
the lands was fixed by a survey, and they were capable of identification, Congress reserved absolute power over them; and if
in exercising it the whole or any part of a 16th or 36th section
had been disposed of, the State was to be compensated by other
lands equal in quantity, and as near as may be in quality. By
this means the State was fully indemnified, the settlers ran no
risk of losing the labor of years, and Congress was left free to
legislate touching the national domain in any way it saw fit, to
promote the public interests.
It is argued, that, conceding the soundness of this construction, the defence cannot be sustained, because the land in controversy was not actually sold by direction of Congress until
after the survey. This position ignores a familar rule in the
construction of statutes, that they must be so construed as to
admit all parts of them to stand, if possible. 1 Bouv. Inst.
p. 42, sect. 7. The language used is, "sold or otherwise disposed of by any act of Congress." The point made by the
plaintiff would reject a part of these words, and defeat one
of the main purposes in view. .Congress knew, as did the
whole country, that Nevada was possessed of great mineral
wealth, and that lands containing it should be disposed of
differently from those fit only for agriculture. No method
for doing this had then been provided; but Congress said to
the people of the Territory, " You shall, if you decide to come
into the Union, have for the use of schools sections numbered 16 and 36 in every township, if on survey no one else
has any valid claim to them; but until this decision is made
and the lands are surveyed, we reserve the right either to
sell them or dispose of them in any other way that commends
itself to our judgment. If they are sold or disposed of, you
The right so
shall have other lands equivalent thereto."
reserved is subject to no limitiation, and the wisdom of not surrendering it is apparent. The whole country is interested in
the development of our mineral resources, and to secure it adequate protection was required for those engaged in it. The act
of Congress of July 26; 1866, supra, passed. hefor e-the land.

Oct. 1876.]

UEYDENFELDT ti. DANEY GOLD, ETC.

Co.

641

in controversy was surveyed, furnishes this protection, by disposing of the mineral lands of the United States to actual
occupants and claimants, and pioviding a method for the acquisition of title. , The defendant, and those;under whom it claims,
occupied the land prior to the survey, and were entitled to purchase. The patent subsequently obtained from the United
States relates back to the time of the original location 'and
entry, and perfects their right to the exclusion of all adverse
intervening claims.
These views dispose of this case; but there is another ground
equally conclusive. Congress, on the 4th of July, 1866, 14 Stat.
85, by an act concerning lands granted to the State of Nevada, among other things, reserved from sale all mineral lands
in the State, and authorized the lines of surveys to be changed
from rectangular, so as to -exclude them. This was doubtless
intended as a construction of the grant under consideration;
but whether it be correct or not, and whatever may be the
effect of the grant in its original shape, it was clearly competent for the grantee to accept it in its modified form, and agree
to the construction put upon it by the grantor. The State,
by its legislative act of Feb. 13, 1867, ratified that construction,
and accepted the grant with the conditions annexed.
We agree with the Supreme Court of Nevada, that this
acceptance "was a recognition by the legislature of the State
of the validity of the claim made by the government of the
United States to the mineral lands."
It is objected that the constitution of Nevada inhibited such
legislation; but the Supreme Court of the State, in the case
we are reviewing, held that it did not, 10 Nev. 314; and we
think their reasoning on this subject is conclusive.
Judgment affirmed.

VOL. i1.

