Oct. 1876.]

THE " JOHN L. HASBROUCK."

are within that State jails that are both suitable and available.
It is for the court to determine whether the imprisonment shall
be in a jail or a penitentiary. If in a penitentiary, then a
penitentiary must be found inside -of the State suitable and
available, in order that the sentence to be pronounced may
be executed there. If there is none, resort may be had to
those of another State. Imprisonment need not necessarily
be ordered in a jail because the penitentiary of the State is
unsuitable.
As the whole record is before us, and.the case has been fully
Denied,
argued upon the merits, the writ is
NOTE. -In
Ex parte Henderson, the application for a writ of habeas corpus was
denied, for the reasons assigiied in the foregoing opinion.

TiEn

"Jom

L. HASBROUCK."

1. The rule requiring a sailing-vessel to keep her course when approaching a
steamer in such direction as to involve risk of collision does not forbid such
necessary variations in her course as will enable her to avoid immediate
danger arising from natural obstructions to navigation.
2. Where well-known usage has sanctioned one comse for a steamer ascending, and another for a sailing-vessel descending, a river, the vessel, if
required by natural obstructions to navigation to change her course, is, after
passing them, bound to resume it. Failing to do so, and continuing, her
course directly into that which an approaching steamer is properly navigating, she is not entitled to recover for a loss occasioned by a collision,
which the steamer endeavored to prevent, by adopting the only meaIs in
her power.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Eastern District of New York.
This was a libel by the owners of the sloop" Venus " against
the steam-propeller "John L. Hasbrouck," to recover damages
for the sinking of the sloop by a collision with the propeller
on the Hudson River, near West Point, on the night of Nov.
27, 1869. The Distiict Court held that the collision was
caused by the sole fault of the "Venus," and entered a decree
dismissifig "the libel; which decree having been affirmed by the
Circuit Court, the libellant brought the case here.

THE

"1 JOHN

L. IIASBROUGK."

[Sup. Ot.

Argued Jby Mr. William Allen Butler for the appellant, and
by Mr. B. D. Benedict, contra.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion.of the court.

Rules of navigation are ordained, and required to be observed,
to save life and property employed in marine pursuits, and not
to promote collisions, or to justify the wrong-doer where such a
disaster has occurred. The Sunnyside, 1 Otto, 210.
. Ships and vessels engaged in commerce ought to observe the
rules of navigation in all cases where they apply; and it is
safe- to affirm that they itlways apply when there is impending risk of collision, except in special cases, where their observance would tend to promote what they were ordained to
prevent, or where special circumstances render a delarture
from them indispensably necessary to avoid immediate danger.
13 Stat. 61.
Both parties admit that the collision described in the record
occurred at the .time and place alleged in the pleadings, and it
appears that the owner of the sloop, having suffered pecuniaty
loss by the disaster, instituted a libel in rem in the District
Court against the steamer, to' recover compensation for the
value of 'the sloop and her cargo.
Enough appears to show that the sloop was laden with
flagging-stone, and that she was bound on a voyage from Catskill,
on the Hudson River, to the city of Brooklyn; and that the
steamer was bound on a trip up the river, with a barge lashed
to her starboard side. Proper signal-lighs were displayed by
both vessels, and it is not controverted that they both had
competent lookouts, nor that they were both well manned and
equipped.
Precisely what took place before the sloop reached Newburg
does not appear, nor would it be *ofmuch importance if it were
known. When they left that place, they took in the mainsail
and jib, for the reason, that the wind blew pretty hard, and it
appears that they did not hoist those sails again until they went
past Ma,gazine Point, which is on the east shore of the river.
Before they reached. West Point, all agree that the course of
the sloop was well over to the west side of the channel of
,navigation. Thtoughout .the same period the. steamer was'

Oct.-1876.]

THE "JOHN

L.

HASBROUCKL"

proceeding up the river on the east side of the channel,
which is the usual pathway of steamers navigating in that
direction.
Sailing-vessels, especially when descending the river, usdally
keep well over to the western side of the channel, leaving the
eastern side of the same for the uninterrupted passage of vessels
propelled by steam. Usage has sanctioned that course of navigation, where there are no impediments or natural obstructions
in the pathway of-ascending or descending vessels. Vessels of
all kinds, whether propelled by steam or sails, are allowed and
expected to vary their respective courses to correspond with
the well-known sinuosities of the navigable portion of the river,
and to avoid the dangers of navigation arising from rocks, shoals,
and sand-bars, as well as from curves and bends in the banks of
the river or the channel of navigation.
Steamers running up the river may make such necessary
variations in their course as is necessary to avoid every such
natural obstruction to navigation; nor are sailing-vessels descending the river required to hold their course at the hazard of
being grounded or shipwrecked by natural obstructions, even
though they are required to adopt that precaution in all cases
where a steamer is approaching, if the navigation is free from
such difficulties. Instead of that, every mariner knows that a
sailing-vessel descending the river from above West Point, if
her course has been well over to the right bank of the river,
must, as she approaches the bend in the river there, incline to
port sufficiently to round the projection at that place, even if
those in charge of her deck intend to continue down the river
on the west side, in the same general course as the vessel
pursued before they arrived at that locality.
Variations of the kind in the course of the vessel are allowable, because they cannot be avoided without imminent danger
of immediate destruction; nor is a sailing-vessel under such
circumstances forbidden to yield to such a necessity, even
though those in charge of her deck are aware at the time that
a steamer is coming up the river on a course which involves
risk of collision, if it appears that a change of course is reasonably necessary to prevent the sailing-vessel from running into
.the bank, or encountering any other natural obstruction to the

THE "JOHN

IA HASBROUCK."

[Sup. Or.

navigation. Necessary changes made in the course of the
voyage to avoid such obstructions are not violations of the sailing-rule which requires the sailing-vessel to keep her course
whenever an approaching steamer is required to keep out of
the way. Departures of the kind from the general requirements
of the sailing-rules are rendered necessary to avoid impending
peril and immediate danger, which can only be justified in such
an emergency, and to the extent that the immediate danger
demands their adoption.
Tested by these suggestions, it is clear that the sloop, when
she found herself in the cove just above West Point, might
properly incline to port sufficiently to clear any obstruction
there and to round that point in safety; but it is equally clear
that it was her duty, when that object was safely accomplished,
'o incline to starboard sufficiently to resume her regular course
down the river, well .over on the west side of the channel.
Three donsiderations -should have induced those in charge of
her deck to adopt that course: 1. Because it was her regular
iourse, as shown by the usages of the river. 2. Because tte
steamer was coming up on the opposite side of the river.
3. Because there were no -vessels in view coming up on the
western side of the channel.
Enough appears in the consequences which followed from the
adoption of the opposite course to show that the preceding
suggestions should have been adopted and followed, and that,
if they had been, the disaster never would have happened.
Proof of that is seen in the fact that the steamer; when. the
sloop emerged from the cove and her lights came in view as
she rounded the point, was fast coming up on the eastern side
of the river, without the least warning of approaching danger.
For a moment the red light of the sloop came in view; but it
soon disappeared, and was substituted by the-green .light, which
indicates very clearl' -that the sloop held hdr course acrbss the
channel instead of inclining'to the starboard, as she should
have done, under a port helm; in order to resume her regular
course down the river on the western side.
Danger being manifest from those indications, the steamer
ported -her helm and stopped her engine, which was all she
,could do in the emergency to prevent a collision. Her course

Oct. 1876.]

THE " JOHN L. HASBROUCK."

was already well over on the eastern side of the channel,
and with a barge lashed to her starboard side she could not
bear away much under a port helm, without being in danger of departing from the navigable channel of 'the river.
Witnesses estimate the channel at that point as five hundred yads in Width, and all agree that it is a good boating
channel.
Hearing was had, and the District Court entered a decree
dismissing the libel. Due appeal was taken by the libellant to
the Circuit Court, where the decree of the District Court was
affirmed, and the libellant appealed to this court.
Proof of a satisfactory character shows that those in charge
of the sloop did not change the course of the vessel subsequent
to the time when they first saw the lights of the steamer, and
the mate of the sloop testifies to the effect that he first saw the
lights of the steamer over the starboard bow of the sloop, that
they were not then far enough around the point to see straight
down the river, and that the steamer at that time was heading
to the eastward of the sloop, which shows conclusively that the
steamer was so far advanced when the mate made that observation that she could not prevent the collision by stopping her
engine.
Conclusive support to the proposition that the sloop did not
change her course from the time those on board of her first
saw the lights of the steamer to the collision is also found in
the testimony of the master of the sloop, in the allegations of
the libel, and in the propositions of fact submitted by the
libellant. Nothing appears in the record to justify the conclusion that the libellant even pretends that the sloop changed
her course subsequent to the discovery of the lights of the
steamer, or that those in charge of her deck did any thing to
prevent a collision, unless it was to hold her course across the
channel, towards the left bank of the river. Evidence to support any thing of the kind is entirely wanting. Opposed to
that, the libellant contends that it was the duty of the sloop
to hold her course, and insists that the steamer was in fault
because she did. not keep out of the way, as required by the
fifteenth sailing-rule. 13 Stat. 60.
Beyond doubt, a steamer must keep out of the way of a sail-

THE "JOHN

L.

HASBROUCK."

[Sup. Ct.

ing-ship, where the two are properly sailing in such directions
as to involve risk of collision; but neither that regulation, nor
any other sea law,.will justify a sailing-ship in unnecessarily
leaving her pathway for the purpose of taking a course directly
into the pathway of a steamer in order to compel the steamer
to abandon the pathway in which she is properly navigating
and seek another usually navigated by-sailing-vessels, or incur
the peril of an immediate collision.
Litigations of the kind prior to the present have come here,
in which the evidence tended to show that steamers, in passing
the locality where the collision in question occurred, usually
navigate te eastern side of the channel, and that sailing-vessels, whether ascending or descending, usually pass on the opposite side. Testimony tending to prove such a usage in respect
to the locality of the collision is exhibited in the case before
the court; but the court here is not inclined to rest the decision
of the case entirely upon that ground, for the reason that the
evidence is satisfactory and uncontradicted, that the steamer
was ascending on a course well over to the east side of the channel, and that the sloop, prior to reaching West Point, was descending the river on the western side, in the regular course of
navigation.
Neither of those propositions can be succ~ssfully controverted:
and, if not, the court is of the opinion that the sloop wis not
authorized to cross the channel to the eastern -side; that all she
had a right to do in that regard was to incline to port sufficiently to round the point in safety and that it was neglig6ut
seamanship to continue to hold her course across the channe. or
to deviate from her regular course, beyond what was necessary
to cojrespond with the sinuosity of the channel; and that it was
her duty, when that object had ,been safely accomplished, to
have inclined to starboard, and have resumed her regular course
down the river on the western side of the channel of navigation.
Necessary deviation to avoid the obstruction is plainly allowable; but to admit that the deviation may be continued after
the necessity for it ceases; Would be to concede that the sailingvessel under such circumstances may hold her course across the
channel, and force a collision with a steamer coming up on the

Oct. 1876.]

THE "JOHN L. HASBROUCK."

eastern side of the channel, or compel the steamer, if 9he can,
to abandon her accustomed pathway and seek another pathway
usually navigated by sailing-iessels.
Attempt is made in argument to exonerate the sloop, or those
in charge of her, from all culpable negligence in the premises,
by an appeal to the evidence, by which it appears, as the libellant contends, that the wind was not sufficient, to enable the
sloop to go to starboard hfter she rounded West Point. Support
to that proposition, however, is not derived to any considerable
extent from the libel, which, though it describes the wind as very.
light, nevertheless alleges that there was a strong ebb tide running; and the manifest theory of the libel is, not that those in
charge of the sloop made any effort to port the wheel after the
sloop rounded West Point, but that she held her course from
the time the lights of the steamer were first seen to the moment
of the collision.
Considerable conflict exists in the evidence as to the state of
the wind; but the great weight of it shows that the wind was
from the north-west, and that the theory of the libellant, that it
was not sufficient to give steerage-way to the sloop, is not well
founded. Important facts are disclosed in the testimony given
by the libellant inconsistent with the theory that there was a
calm. He, or his witnesses, admit that the wind blew hard
before they got down to Magazine Point, so thaf they took in
all sail; and it also appears from the testimony that when they
had passed that point they again hoisted the mainsail to the
reef, showing very satisfactorily that the wind was still too
strong for a full sail.
Four witnesses, including the two pilots and the master and
lookout, called by the steamer, testify that the wind was northwest, and that it was blowing a stiff breeze; -and they are confirmed by one of the witnesses of the libellant, to. the'extent
that there was a good strong breeze blowing down the river.
Two witnesses from the barge were also examined in behalf of
the steamer; and they also testified that the wind was blowing
a-good stiff breeze, and one of them stated that he inquired of
the mate of the sloop why he did not have up all sail, and that
the mate replied that it was because the wind was so heavy
that they came down under bare poles. Five other witnesses

412

SAGE

ET AL. V. CENTRAL

R...

Co. ET AL.

[Sup

Ct.

from other crafts were also examined by the steamer; and they
all contradict the theory set up by the libellant, that there was
a calm which disqualified the sloop from adopting the proper
precaution to prevent a collision.
Conclusive evidence, if more be needed, is also found in the
injuries which the sloop caused to the steamer by the blow, to
show that the theory of the libellant as to the wind is incorrect.
That the sloop held her course across the channel has already
been shown, and it also appears that she struck the steamer on
her port side some forty feet from the stem, the two vessels
coming together nearly at right angles. Convincing proof is
exhibited to that effect; and it appears that it was the bowsprit
of the sloop that first struck thp port side of the steamer, and
the evidence shows that the force of the blow was such that it
broke a hole through the outside planking, which was three
inches thick, and also broke a hole through the inside planking,
which was also three inches thick, and broke through an oak
timber eight inches in diameter.
Viewed in the light of these facts and circumstances, we are
all of the opinion that the decree of the Circuit Court is correct, and that there is no error in the record.
-Decreeaffirmed.

SAGE _ET AL.

v.

CENTRAL

RAILROAD

CO3IPANY OF IOWA

ET AL.
1. To make a ner pro tunc order effectual for the purposes of a supersedeas, it
must appear that the delay was -he act of the court, and not of the parties.
and that injustice will not be done.
2. A motion to set aside a decree, made by persons not parties to the suit, but
who are permitted to intervene only for the purpose of an appeal from the
decree as briginally rendered, will not operate to suspend such decree.
3. Their separate appeal having been properly allowed and perfected, the case
is here to the extent necessary for the protection of their intereso.
4. A cause, involving private interests only, will not be advanced for a hearing
in preference to other suits on the docket.

1. To vacate a supersedeas-; 2. Dismiss the appeal.
Mr. 1B. L. Ashturst in support of the motions.
Mr. N. A. Cowdrey, contra.
M IO N,

