SOUTH

CAROLINA

v.

GEORGIA ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Arkansas.
Submitted on, printed -arguments by Mr. W. M. Bose for the
plaintiffs in error, and by 31r. Albert Pike, Mr. B. W. Johnson, Mr. J B. Sanborn, and Mr. -FrederickP. Stanton, for the

defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

The decision made by this court in Hot Springs Cases at the
last term, 92 U. S. 698, has disposed of the principal controversy between the parties in this case, by declaring that neither
of them is entitled to the land in question; and that the same
belongs to the United States. As the decree of the Supreme
Court of Arkansas, in the present case, does not contravene

this decision, but refuses aid to any of the parties against each
other, except as to the improvements erected by each respectively, and as to these, saves the rights of the United States,
we do not perceive any error in said decree on any Federal
-Decreeaffirmed.
question.

SOUTH

CAROLiNA v. GEORGIA :ET AL.

1. The compact between South Carolina and Georgia, made in 1787, by which
it was agreed that the boundary between the two States should be the
northern branch or stream of the Savannah River, and that the navigation
of the river along a specified channel should for ever be equally free to the
citizens of both States, and exempt from hinderance, interruption, or molestation, attempted to be -enforced by one State on the citizens of the other,
has no effect upon the subsequent constitutional provision that Congress
shall have power to regkilate commerce with foreign nations and among the
several States.
2. Congress has the same power over the Savannah River that it has over the
other navigable Waters of the United States.
3. The right to regulate commerc6 ncludes the -right to regulate navigation,
and hence to regulate and improve navigable rivers and ports on such
rivers.
4. Congress has power, to close one of several channels in a navigable stream,
if, in its judgment, the navigation of the river will be thereby improved.
It may declare that an actual obstruction is not, in the view of the law, an
illegal one.
5. An appropriation for the improvement of a harbor on a navigable river, "to
be expended under the direction of the Secretary of War," confers upon
that. officer the discretion to determine the mode of improvement, and

Oct. 1876.]

SOUTH CAROLINA

v.

GEORGIA ET AL.

authorizes the diversion of the water from one channel into another, if in
his judgment such is the best mode. By such diversion preference is not
given to the ports of one State over those of another. Quare, Whether a
State suing for the prevention of a nuisance in a navigable river, which is
one of its boundaries, must not aver and show that she sustains some special
and peculiar injury thereby, such as would enable a private person to maintain a similar action.

THIS is a bill in equity, filed in this court by the State of
South Carolina, praying for an injunction restraining the State
of Georgia, Alonzo Taft (Secretary of War), A. A. Humphries
(chief of. the corps of engineers United States army), Q. A.
Gilmore (lieutenant-colonel of that corps), -and their agents
and subordinates, from "obstructing or interrupting" the navigation of the Savannah River, in- violation of the compact
entered into between-the States of South Carolina and Georgia
on the twenty-fourth day of April, 1787. The first and second
articles of that compact are as follows:" ARTICLE 1. The most northern branch or stream of the river
Savannah, from the sea or mouth of such stream to the fork or
confluence of the rivers now called Tugoloo and Keowee, and
from thence, the most northern branch or stream of the said river
Tugoloo, till it intersects the northern boundary-line of South
Carolina, if the said branch or stream extends so far north, reserving all the islands in the said rivers Tugoloo and Savannah to
Georgia; but if the head spring or source of any branch or stream
of the said river Tugoloo does not extend to the north boundaryline of South Carolina, then a west line to'the Mississippi, to be
drawn from the head spring or source of the said branch or stream
of Tugoloo River which extends to the highest northern latitude,
shall, for ever hereafter, form the separation, limit, and boundary
between the States of South Carolina and Georgia.
"ART. 2. The navigation of the river Savannah, at and
from the bar and mouth, along the north-east side of Cockspur
Island, and up the direct course of the main northern channel,
along the northern side of Hutchinson's Island, opposite the town
of Savannah, to the upper end of the said island, and from thence
up the bed or principal stream of the said river to the confluence
of the rivers Tugoloo and Keowee, and from the confluence up
the channel of the most northern stream of Tugoloo River to its
source, and back again by the same channel to the Atlantic Ocean,
is hereby declared to be henceforth equally free to the citizens of

SOUTH CAROLINA

v. GEORGIA ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

both States, and exempt from all duties, tolls, hinderance, interruption, or molestation whatsoever attempted to be enforced by
one State on the citizens of the other, and all the rest of the river
Savannah to the southward of the foregoing description is acknowledged to be the exclusive right of the State of Georgia.",
Congress enacted June 23, 1874: "That the following sums
of money be, and are hereby, appfopriated to be paid out of
any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, to be
expended under the direction of the Secretary of War, for the
repair, preservation, and completion of the following public
works hereinafter named."
"For continuing the improvement of the harbor at Savannah, 850,000." 18 Stat. 240.
The act of March 3, 1875 (18 id. 459), contains the following appropriation: "For the improvemeut of the harbor at
Savannah, Ga., $70,000."
The work which the bill seeks to arrest is doing pursuant to
the authority conferred by these acts.
The Savannah River, where it flows past the city of Savannah, is divided into two channels by Hufchinson's Island,
which extends above and below the city, with a length of
about six miles, and -a width, where widest, of one mile or
more. Of these channels, the more northerly is known as
Back River, whilst that which passes immediately by the city
of Savannah is called Front River.
The improvement consists in the construction of a crib dam
at. a point known as the "Cross Tides," for the purpose, by
diverting a sufficient quantity of the water passing through
the Back River into the Front River channel, of securing to
the city a depth of fifteen feet at low water.
111r. William Henry Trescot and Mr: Phil'p Phillips for the
complainant.
1. The terms of the treaty of Beaufort are perpetual. Biordan & Duane, U. S. Laws, vol. i.; 1 Stat. So. Ca.; Wheaton's
Int. Law, pt. 2, c. 2, sect. 268; Heffter, Droit Int., 170 ; Chirac
v. Chirac, 2 Wheat. 259 ; Chappell's Historical Mis. of Georgia,
pt. 2, 65; Bancroft, vol. viii. 137; vol. ix. 257; Articles .of
Confederation, Amer. Archives, vol. iv. 35-359.
2. Georgia and South Carolina were competent to execute

Oct. 1876.]

SOUTH CAROLINA V. GEORGIA ET AL.

that treaty.

Articles of Confederation ; Harcourtv. Gaillard,

12 Wheat. 523; Spooner v. 1c Connell, 1 McLean, 347; Journal American Congress, vol. iv.; 2 Stat. 57.
3. The adoption of the Federal Constitution did not abrogate the treaty. Constitution of United States; Spooner v.
McConnell, supra; Ordinance of 1787; Wilson v. Blackbird
Creek Co., 3 Pet. 245; Hogg v. Zanesville 1Mfanuf. Co., 5 Ohio,
410; Woodbourn v. Kilbourn lAanuf. Co., 1 Abb. 158; Pollard
v. Hogan's Lessee, 3 How. 212; Permolli v. First Hunicipality,
id. 589; Strader v. Graham, 10 id. 82; Dred Scott, 19 id. 396;
Howard v.
g~gersoll, 13 id. 405; American State Papers, Public Lands, vol. i. 103 ; President's Message, 1835, Dec. 8, Senate
Doe. 1, p. 108; Engineer Report, 1838, MSS.; President's Message, February, 1840, Doc. 2; id. July, 1850, Ex. Doe. 19;
Appropriation Acts, 1828-73; Annual Report, Gen. Gilmore,
1873, pp. 16, 17; Gilman v. Philadelphia,3 Wall. 928; Fowler
v. Lindsey, 3 Dall. 411.
4. The acts of Congress should be so construed and executed
as not to invade the rights of the State under the compact
(Aldridge v. Williams, 3 How. 24; Savings-Bank v. United
States, 19 Wall. 237; Fisher v. United States, 2 Cr*anch, 385;
United States v. Kirby, 7 Wall. 486; Dashv. Vankleek, 7 Johns.
502; Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264; Comm. v. Daunes, 24
Pick. 230), or to give preference to the ports of one State
over those of another.
5. The State is the proper party complainant. Georgetown
v. Canal Co., 12 Pet. 91; Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264;
Georgia v. Stanton, 6 Wall. 75.
6. The equity side of the court is properly invoked. Wheeling Bridge Case, 13 . How. 560; Georgetown v. Canal Co.,
supra.
7. The court will not enter into the question as to the degree
of the obstruction.
Green v. Biddle, 8 Wheat. 2; King v.
Ward, 4 Ad. & El. 384.
Mr.Solicitor-General Phillips, contra.
1. South Carolina and Georgia, by becoming members of
the Union, stripped themselves of all power under the second
article of their agreement of 1787, when the United States
undertook to regulate the navigation of the river. Both States

SOUTH CAROLINA

v. GEORGIA

ET AL.

were, thereafter,.excluded from interference with it.

.[Sup.

Ct.

Cooley v.

Board of Wardens of Port of Philadelphiaet al., 12 How. 299;
'Gilman v. Philadelphia,8 Wall. 713; Crandall v. State of
Nevada, 9 id. 85.
2. That agreement confers no present rights upon citizens
of South Carolina to navigate the Savannah. Their rights, in
common with those of all citizens of the United States, are perfect under the Constitution, and cannot be vindicated by a suit
in the name of the State.
8. When a State brings suit in a court of the United States,
it appears in its private capacity, is treated as other litigants,
and must make out such a cause of action as would entitle
them, under the same circumstances, to recover. Pennsylvania
v. The Wheeling and Belmont Bridge Co., 18 How. 518; City of
Georgetown v. The Alexandria Canal Co., 12 Pet. 91. The
property rights of South Carolina are not involved, and there
is no pretence of any apprehended damage to them by reason
of this pretended obstruction. The only ground of complai*nt
is, that the interests of. her citizens may be thereby injuriously
affected.
4. The navigation of the Savannah River will not be obstructed by the contemplated mode of improvement. The plan
therefor adopted after thorough examination by experienced
and skilful engineers, and approved by the appropriate committees of the two -houses, received the ultimate sanction of
Congress. That body has the unquestionable power to improve the navigable waters of the United States, and is the
exclusive judge of the most expedient mode of exercising it.
Full discretion in the expenditure of the sum appropriated has
been confided to the Secretary of War, who will carry out that
plan. It is an idle pretence, that, by so doing, preference will
be given to the ports of one State over those of another.
M . JusTic. STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
We do not perceive that, in this suit, the State of South
Carolina stands in any better position than that which she
would occupy if the compact of 1787 between herself and
Georgia had never been made. That compact defined the
boundary between the two States as the most northern branch

Oct. 1876.]

SOUTH CAROLINA v. GEORGIA ET AL.

or stream of the river Savannah from the sea, or mouth of the
stream, to the fork or confluence of the rivers then called Tugoloo and Keowee. The second article declared that the navigation of the river Savannah, at and from the bar and mouth,
along the north-east side of Cockspur Island, and up the direct
course of the main northern channel, along the northern side
of Hutchinson's Island, opposite the town of Savannih, to the
upper end of said island, and from thence up the bed or principal stream of the said river to the confluence of the rivers
Tugoloo and Keowee, . . . should thenceforth be equally free

to the citizens of both States, and exempt from all duties, tolls,
hinderance, interruption, or molestation whatsoever, attempted
to be enforced by one State on the citizens of.the other. Undoubtedly this assured to the citizens of the two States the free
and unobstructed navigati6n of the channel described, precisely
the same right which they would have possessed had the original charters of the two provinces, Georgia and South Carolina,
fixed the Savannah River as the boundary between them. It
needed no compact to give to the citizens of adjoining States a
right to the free and unobstructed 'navigation of a navigable
river which was the boundary between them. But it matters
not to this case how the right was acquired, whether under the
compact or not, or what the extent of the right of South Carolina was in 1787. After the treaty between the two States
was- made, both the parties to it became members of the
United States. Both adopted the Federal Constitution, and
thereby joined in delegating to the general government the
right to "regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among
the several States." Whatever, therefore, may have been their
rights in the navigation of the Savannah River befor.e they
entered the Union, either as between' themselves or against
others, they both agreed that" Congress' might thereafter do
every thing which is within the power thus delegated. That
the power to regulate inter-State commerce, and commerce
with foreign nations, conferred upon Congress by the Constitation, extends to the control of navigable rivers between States,
-rivers
that are accessible from other States, at least to the
extent of improving their navigability, - has not been questioned during the argument, nor could it be with any show of

SOUTH OCAuoIINA v. GEORGIA ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

reason. From an early period in the history of the government, it has been so understood and determined. Prior to the
adoption of the Federal Constitution, the States of South Carolina and Georgia together had complete dominion over the
navigation of the Savannah River. By mutual agreement they
might have regulated it as they pleased. It was in their power
to prescribe, not merely on what conditions commerce might
be conducted upon the stream, but also how the river might be
navigated, and whether it might be navigated at all. They
could have determined that all vessels passing up and down
the stream should pursue a defined course, and that they should
pass along, one channel rather than another, where there were
two. They had plenary authority to make improvements in
the bed of the river, to divert the water from one channel to
another, and to plant obstructions therein at their will. This
will not be denied; -but the power to "regulate commerce,"
conferred by the Constitution upon Congress, is that which
previously existed in the States. As was said in Gilman v.
Philadelphia, 3 Wall. 724, " Commerce includes navigation..
The power to regulate commerce comprehends the control for
that purpose, and to the extent necessary, of all the navigable
rivers of -the United States which are accessible from a State.
other than those in which they lie. For this purpose they are
the public property of the nation, and subject to all the requisite legislation by Congress. This necessarily iricludes the
power to keep .these open and free from any obstruction to
their navigation' interposed by the States, or otherwise; to
remove such obstructions where they exist; and to provide, by
such sanctions as they may deem proper, against the occurrence
of the evil and for the punishment pf the-offenders. .For these
purposes Cdngress possesses all the powers which existed in
the States before the adoption of the ilational Constitution, and
which have always existed in the Parliament in England."
Su hlihas -uniformly been the construction given to that clause
of the Constitution-which confers upon Congress the power to
regulate commerce.
But it is insistu'. on behalf -of the complainant, that, thoughCongress -may have the power to remove obstructions in the
navigable waters of the United States, it has no right to

.Oct. 1876.]

SOUTH CAROLINA V. GEORGIA ET AL.

authorize placing obstructions therein; that while it may improvenavigation, it may not impede or destroy it. Were this
conceded; it could not affect our judgment of the present case.
The record exhibits that immediately above the city of Savannah the river is divided by Hutchinson's Island, and that there
is a natural channel on each side of the island, both uniting at
the head. The obstruction complained of is at the point of
divergence of the two channels, and its purpose and probable
effect are to improve the southern channel at the expense of
the northern, by increasing the flow of the water through the
former, thus increasing its .depth and water-way, as also the
scouring effects of the current. The action of the defendants
is not, therefore, the destruction of the navigation of the river.
True, it is obstructing the water-way of one of its channels, and
compelling navigation to use the other channel; but it is a
means employed to render navigation of the river more convenient, -a mode of improvement not uncommon. The two
channels are not two rivers, and closing one for the improvement of the other is in no just or legal sense destroying or
impeding the navigation. If it were, every structure erected
in the bed of the river, whether in the channel or not, would
be an obstruction. It might be a light-house erected on a submerged sand-bank, or a jetty pushed out into the stream to narrow the water-way, and increase the depth of water and the
direction and the force of the current,'or the pier of a bridge
standing where vessels now pass, and where they can pass only
at *ery high water. The impediments to navigation caused by
such structures are, it is true, in one sense, obstructions to navigation ; but, so far as they tend to facilitate commerce, it is not
claimed- that they are unlawful. In what respect, except in
degree, do they differ from the acts and constructions of which
the plaintiff complains ? All of them are, obstructions to the
natural flow of the river, yet all, except the pier, are improvements to its navigability, and consequently they add new facilities to the conduct of commerce. It is not, however, to be
conceded that Congress has no power to order obstructions to
be placed in the navigable waters of the United States, either
'to assist navigation or to change its direction by forcing it into
one channel of a river rather than the other. It may build

SOUTO CAROLINA V. GEORGIA ET AL.

S
[Sup.
Ct.

light-houses in the bed of the stream. It may construct jetties.
It may require all navigators to pass along a prescribed channel, and may close any other channel. to their passage. If, as
we have said, the United States have succeeded to the power
and rights of the several States, so far as control over interState and foreign commerce is concerned, this is not to be
doubted. Might not the States of South Carolina and Georgia,
by mutual agreement, have constructed.a dam across the crosstides between Hutchinson -and Argyle Islands, and thus have
confined the navigation of the Savannah River to the southern channel? Might they not have done this before they
surrendered to the Federal government a portion of their
sovereignty? Might they not have constructed jetties, or
manipulated the river, so that commerce could have been
carried on exclusively through the southern channel, on the
south side of Hutchinson's Island ? It is not thought that
these questions can be answered in the hegative. Then why
may, not Congress, succeeding, as it has done, to the authority
of the States, do the same thing? 'Why may it not confine
the navigation of the river to the channel south of Hutchinson's Island; and why is this not a regulation of commerce, ii
commerce includes navigation ? We think it is such a regulation.
Upon 'this subject the case of Pennsylvaniav. The Wheeling .and Belmont Bridge Co., 18 How. 421,. is instructive.
There it was ruled that the power of Congress to regulate
commerce includes the regulation of intercourse and navigation, *and consequently the power to determine what shall or
shall not be deemed, in the judgment of law, an obstruction of
navigation. It was, therefore, decided that an. act of Congress
declaring a bridge over the Ohio- River, "which in fact did
impedd steamboat navigation, to be a lawful structure, and
requiring the officers and crews of vessels navigating the river
to regulate their vessels so as not to inteifere with the elevgtion and construction of the bridge, was a legitimate exercise
of the power of Congress to regulate'commerce.
It was further ruled that the act was not in conflict with the
provision"bf the Constitution, which declares that no preference shall be given by any regulation of commerce or revenue
-

Oct. 1876.]

SOUTH CAROLINA V. GEORGIA ET AL'.

to the ports of one State over those of another. The judgment
in that case is, also, a sufficient answer to the claim made by
the present complainant, that closing the channel on the
South Carolina side of Hutchinson's Island is a preference
given to the ports of Georgia forbidden by this clause of the
Constitution. It was there said that the prohibition of such a
preference does not extend to acts which may directly benefit
the ports of one State and only incidentally injuriously affect
those of another, such as the improvement of rivers and harbors, the erection of light-houses, and other facilities of commerce. "It will not do," said the court, "to say that the
exercise of an admitted power of Congress conferred by the
Constitution is to be withheld, if it appears or can be shown
that the effect and operation of the law may incidentally
extend beyond the limitation of the power." The case of The
Clinton Bridge, 10 Wall.'454, is in -full accord with this decision. It asserts *plainlythe power of Congress to declare what
is and what is not an illegal obstruction in a navigable stream.
The plaintiff next contends that if Congress has the power
to authorize the construction of the -work in contemplation and
in progress, whereby the water will be diverted from the northern into the southern channel of the river, no such authority
has been given. With this we cannot concur. By am act of
Congress of June 23, 1874, n appropriation was made of
$50,000, to be.expended under- the direction of the Secretary
of War, for the repairs, preservation, and completion of certain
public works, and, inter alia, "for the improvement of the harbor of Savannah." The act of March 3, 1875, made an additional appropriation of $70,000, "for the improvement of the
harbor of Savannah, Georgia." It is true that neither of these
acts directed the manner in which these- appropriations should
be expended. The mode of improving the harbor was left to
the discretion'of the Secretary of War, and the, mode adopted
under 'his supervision plainly tends to the improvemen t contemplated. We know judicially the fact-that the harbor is the
river in front of the city, and the case, as exhibited by the pleadingsi reveals that the acts of which the plaintiff complains tend
directly to increase the volume of water in the channel opposite
'the city, as well as the width of the -water-way. Without

FULLER ET AL. V. CLAFLIN ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

relying at all upon the report of the engineers, which was
before Congress, and which recommended, precisely what was
done, we can come to no other conclusion than that the defendants are aac'ng within the authority of the statutes, and that
the structure at the cross-tides intended to divert the water
from the northern channel into the southern is, in the judgment
of the law, no illegal obstruction. The plaintiff has, therefore,
made iro case sufficient to justify an injunction, even if the
State is in a position to ask for it.
But, in resting our judgment upon this ground, we are not
to be understood as admitting that a State, when suing in this
court for the prevention of a nuisance in a navigable river of
the United States, must not aver and show that it will sustain
some speci'al and peculiar injury therefrom, such as would
-enable a private person to maintain a similar action in another
court. Upon that subject we express no opinion. It is sufficient for the present case to hold, as we do, that the acts of the
defendants, of which South Carolina complains, are not unlawfuil, and consequently that there is no nuisance .against which
an injunction should be granted.
The special injunction heretofore ordered is dissolved, and
the
Bill dismissed.

FULLER BT AL. .v. CLAFL]W ET AL.
-1.An order striking out an answer, as it ends the cause, leaves the action undefended, and confers a right to immedite judgment, is subject to review in
the ap ellate court.
2. The court below having, on demurrer, held an knswer to be sufficient, directed
it to be made more specific and certain. The party thereupon filed an
answer, which, although in substantial compliance with the order, was
stricken out, and judgment rendered in favor of the plaintiff for the
amount of the claim sued on. Held, that the action of the'court in striking
out the answer and proceeding to judgment was erroneous.

ERR O to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western- Districi of Arkansas.
Submitted on printed arguments by .Ar. Benjamin T. -Duval

