642

BAYNE ET AL., TRUSTEES, v. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

BAYNE ET AL., TRUSTEES, v. UNITED STATES.
A party who obtains from a disbursing officer public moneys-without right
thereto, and with full knowledge that they are such, becomes indebted to the
United States, within the meaning of th'fifth section of the act of Congress
of March 3, 1797 (1 Stat. 515), and, in the event of his insolvency, the United
States is entitled to priority of payment out of his assets.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Maryland.
Argued by Mr. S. Teaklie Wallis and 11r. Thomas W. Hall, Jr.,
for the appellants, and by Mr. B. T. Merrick for the appellee.

MR. JUSTICE DAvis delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought by the United States against the trustees of Bayne & Co. The court below passed a decree declaring the United States to be a preferred creditor of that firm in
the sum of $100,000, and directing the trustees to pay it out of
the trust fund in their hands, as far as it would suffice therefor,
to the exclusion of the claims of any other creditor. The trustees appealed to this court.
The proofs, although conflicting in some particulars, establish
the material facts which entitle the complainant to relief. The
United States, March 31, 1866, gave a draft in favor of Brevet
Lieut.-Colonel Edward E. Paulding, a paymaster in the army, for
8200,000, on the First National Bank of Washington, D. C., a
depositary of public money, duly designated as such by the Secretary of the Treasury. He deposited it to his credit, as such
officer, in that bank, the thirteenth day of the following April.
He had no individual account there. On the 21st of the latter
month he drew two checks on that bank, each for $100,000,
indorsed them in blank, and sent them to the cashier of the
Merchants' National Bank of Washington, who presented them
to the former bank, with the information that Lawrence P.
Bayne, a member of the firm of Bayne & Co., desired that
$100,000 should be deposited to its'credit in New York. This
was done, and the amount realized by Bayne & Co., who, it is
not pretended, were creditors of the United States. One half
of the remaining $100,000 was paid in currency to the Merchants' Bank. A draft in its favor on New York for the residue was afterwards transferred by it to Bayne & Co.

Oct. 1876.]

BAYNE ET AL., TRUSTEES, V. UNITED STATES.

643

The decree confines the rights of the United States as a preferred creditor of Bayne & Co. to the $100,000 deposited to the
credit of the firm in New York, and no question as to the remainder is now before us.
On the 2d or 3d of the next month (May) Bayne & Co. suspended payment, and on the 5th made an assignment in favor
of their creditors, making certain preferences, which have no
bearing on the present controversy. The Merchants' Bank was
largely the creditor of Bayne & Co., and met with a disastrous
failure, occasioned in a great degree by the insolvency of that
firm.
Government funds in a bank, which is a public depositary, can
only be lawfully withdrawn therefrom by a disbursing officer, to
meet the legitimate requirements of the public service. The
money in question was applicable to a specific purpose, and
diverting it, as was done in this case, to, other uses was a
criminal misappropriation of it. Even its transfer to another
depositary, although no private interest was to be thereby subserved, was forbidden by an explicit and peremptory general
order of the paymaster-general. We are fully satisfied by the
proofs that the transactions between Paulding, the Merchants'
Bank, and the First National Bank, were the result of a fraudulent purpose to secure the use of the public money to Bayne &
Co., who received it with full knowledge that it belonged to the
United States, and had been applied in manifest violation of the
act of Congress. The law imposes on that firm an obligation, and
implies a promise on its part, to refund the money to its owner.
Such a promise can be enforced by action. Assumpsit will lie
whenever the defendant has received money which is the propert7y of the plaintiff, and which the defendant is obliged by natural
justice and equity to refund. loses v. M1"acferlan, 2 Burr. 1012.
Bayne & Co. are indebted to the United States, within the
meaning of the fifth section of the act of Congress of March 3,
1797, 1 Stat. 515. The form of their indebtedness, or the
mode in which it was incurred, is immaterial. Lvewis, Trustee,
v. United States, 92 U. S. 618. The government being entitled
to a preference and priority of payment from the assets of its
insolvent debtors, the relief in this case was, in our opinion,
properly granted.
-Decreeaffirmed.

