GARFIELDE v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

a judgment or decree has been rendered since May 1, 1875,
the amount must be $5,000. 18 Stat. 316.
In Lee v. WTatson, 1 Wall. 337, we held, that "in an action
upon a money demand, whdre the general issue is pleaded, the
matter in dispute is the debt claimed, and its amount, as stated
in the body of the declaration, and.not merely the damages
alleged or the prayer for judgment at its conclusion must be
considered in determining whether this court can take jurisdiction." Applying. this rule, which is clearly right, to the
present case, it is ordered that the writ of error be
-Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

GARFIELDE v. UNITED STATES.
The Post-Office Department, by public notice, invited proposals for conveying
the mails on route No. "43,182, from Portland, Oregon, by Port Townsend
(XW. T.) and San Juan, to Bitka, Alaska, fourteen hundred miles and back,
once a month, in safe and suitable steamboats." The notice, after fixing
the time of departure and arrival from the terminal ports, contained the
following: "Proposals invited to begin at Port Townsend (W. T.), five hundred miles less. Present pay, $34,800 per annum." Held, 1. That, under sect.
248 of the act of June 8 1872 (17 Stat. 313), this was a sufficient notice that
proposals were desired for carrying the mails between Port Townsend and
Sitka. 2. That the acceptance by the Post-Office Department 6f the proposal of a bidder to so carry them created a contract of the same force
and .effect as if a formal contract had been written out and signed by the
parties.

the Court of Claims.
In addition to the facts set forth in the opinion of the court,
the court below found that the appellant's proposal was as
-follows: APPEAL from

"The undersigned, Selucius Garfielde, whose post-office address
is Port Townsend, County of Jefferson, Territory of Washington,
proposes to convey the mails of the United States from July 1, 1874,
to June 30, 1878, on route No. 43,132, between Port Townsend,'
and Sitka, Al.aska, under the advertisement of the Postmaster-General, dated Oct. 1, 1873, in safe and suitable steaniboats, 'with
celerity, certainty, and security' (law of June 8, 1872), for the
annual suini of $26,000.

Oct.

GARFIELDE V. UNITED STATES.

1876.]

"This proposal is made with full knowledge of the distance of
the route, the weight of the mail to be carried, and all other par
ticulars in reference to the route and service; and also after careful
examination of the laws and instructions attached to ad'vertisement
of mail service.
"Dated, Port Townsend, W. T., Jan. 8, 1874.
"SELUCIUS GARFIELDE, Bidder."
He made no proposal under the first part of the advertisement for carrying the mail between Portland, Oregon, by Port
Townsend, W. T., and San Juan to Sitka, Alaska.
In March, 1874, the following notice of acceptance was sent
to said Gaxfielde: " U.
"OFFICE

OF THE

S.

PosT-OFFIcE

DEPARTMENT,

SEcOND ASSISTANT POSTMASTER-GENERAL,

" WASHINGTON, D.

C., March 2, 1874.

The Postmaster-General has accepted your proposal,
under advertisement of Oct. 1, 1873, for conveying the United
States mail, from July 1, 1874, to June 30, 1878, on (Washington
Territory) route No. 43,132, between Port Townsend and Sitka,
Alaska, at $26,000 a year, 'with celerity, certainty, and security.'
"Contracts will be sent in due time to the postmaster at your
place of residence, which you must execute and return to the
department by the first day of June; otherwise you will be considered a failing bidder, and the service will be relet at your
expense.
"You will request the postmaster at the beginning and end of
the route to inform this office when you make the first trip.
"Respectfully, &c.,
SSIR,-

J. L. ROUTT,
"Second Assistant Postmaster-General.
"MR.

SELUcIus

"PORT

GARFIELDE,

TOWNSEND, JEFFERSON

"Recorded and sent March

Co., W.

T.

, 1874."

And on the eighteenth day of April, 1874, Garfielde was informed by telegram that his "proposal" was suspended; and on
the 30th of May, 1874, a contract was entered into between the
Post-Office Department and one Otis for carrying the 'mails
from Portland by Port Townsend and San Juan, to Sitka and
back, at $34,800 per annum.

GARFIELDE v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

The Court of Claims dismissed the petition, whereupon Garfielde appealed here.
Mr. ERbon C. Ingersoll and llr. .. P. Rice for the appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney- aeneralSmith, contra.
MR. JSTIO HE T delivered the opinioa of the court.
The Court of Claims holds that the proposal on the part of
Garfielde, and the acceptance of the proposal by the department, created a contract of the same force and effect as if a
formal contract had been written out and signed by the parties.
Many authorities are cited to sustain ,the proposition. We
- believe it to be sound, and that it should be so held in the
,present case.
That court held that the contract alleged by the petitioner
was invaiid, for the reason that the Postmaster-General exceeded his authority in making it without the previous publication required by the act of Congress of June 8, 1872.
17 Stat. 313, sect.-243.
That act required, "that, before making any contract for
carrying, the mail, . .. the Postmaster-General shall give
public notice . . . such notice' shall describe the route, the
time at which the mail is to be made up, the timn at which it
is to be delivered, and the. frequency of the service."
"Among tle instructions issued by the authority and official
sanction of the Postmaster-General are the following, which
-were referred to and proved or admitted by the parties at the
trial: "S
CIAL
oI
NOTICE. -All
instructions and regulations promulgated by the Postmaster-GenerOl, conformably to law, for the
gtidanee of persons employed by the department,'are entitled to
-the same respect and obedience as aits of Congress....
"SECT. 263. The Postmaster-General may order an increase or
extension of seivice on a route, by allowing therefor a pro rata
increase on the contract pay. He may' change schedules of departures .and arrivals in all cases, and particularly to make them
conform to connections 'with railroads, without increase of pay,
provided 'the running-time be not abridged. He may also order
an increase of speed, allowing, within the restrictions of the law, a
pro rata.-inc'rease of pay for the additional stock or carriers, if any.
The contractor may, however, in case'of increase of speed, relin-

Oct. 1876.]

GARFIELDE

V. UNITED

STATES.

quish. the contract, by giving prompt notice to the department that
he prefers doing to carrying the order into effect. The Postmaster-General may also discontinue or curtail the service, in whole or
in part, in order to place on the route a greater degree of' service,
or whenever the public interests, in his judgment, shall require
such discontinuance or curtailment for any other cause; he allowing, as a full indemnity to the contractor, one month's eitra pay on
the amount of service dispensed with, and a pro rata compensation
for the amount of service retained and continued."
" SECT. 267. Bidders should first propose for service strictly
accoyding to the advertisement, and then, if they desire, separately
for different service; and, if the regular bid be the lowest offered
for the advertised service, the other proposition may be considered."
"SECT. 275. The law provides that contracts for the transportation of the mail shall be awarded to 'the lowest bidder tendering sufficient guaranties for faithful performance, without other
reference to the mode of such transportation than may be necessary
to provide for the due celerity, certainty, and security thereof."
The notice in the present case called for proposals for carrying the mails on route No. 43,132, from Portland, Oregon, to
Sitka, Alaska. The distance was stated to be fourteen hundred
miles. The duty was required to be performed each way once in
each month, in safe abd suitable steamboats, by the way of Port
Townsend and San Juan. The time of departure and arrival at
each terminus was specified, and ten days was allowed for the
passage. It was then added, "Proposals invited to begin at Port
Townsend (W. T.), five hundred miles less."
We are of the opinion that this was a sufficient notice, under
sect. 243, supra, that proposals were desired for carrying the
mail from Port Townsend to Sitka. The rigorous and strained
construction which would defeat it, would defeat the reasonAble
intent of the statute. Each terminus was given, - to wit, Port
Townsend and.Sitka, - as was the route to be followed, - to wit,
by way of San Juan, -and the length of time to be occupied, to wit, ten days for the whole distance, of which this distance
bore the proportion of nine to fourteen, - and the time of making up and delivery, upon the same principle. The steamer
should leave Portland on the first day of every month; of the ten
days allowed for the passage to Sitka, five-fourteenths would be

GARFIELDE "V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

occupied in reaching Port Townsend, And nine-fourteenths
would be allowed for the residue. The whole time and the
whole number"of miles being given, it was a simple arithmetical
question of 'when the steamer would leave Port Townsend, and
when, on its return, it would reach that port.
The object of the statute was to secure notice of the intended
pdst-routes, of tbe service required, and the manner of its performance, that bidders might compete, that favoritism should
* be prevented, that efficiency and economy in the service should
be obtained. 'It was not required that papers of this character
should be drawn, as if they were subject to the criticism or dissection of a demurrer in a court of law.
'Accordingly, it appears that this notice for the abridged distance is in conformity o-the usages of Whe Post-Office Department for many years past, proof having been made of nine
hundred 'similar advertisements published by the PostmasterGeneral. Long practice and constant usage favor the-construction we have given to these proposals.
Great aid is also given by the two hundred and sixty-third
regulation, above recited. It is there-provided, that the Postmaster-General rhay, in his discretion, change the schedule of
departures and arrivals, 'ithout increase of pay, if the running
time be not abridged. Under this authority, he had the power
to name the precise days of the month on which the steamer
of Garfielde, the claimant, should leave Port Townsend or Sitka,
or both of these places. The supposed defects in the advertisement are capable of a remedy, if needed, under this authority.
The damages are regulated by the same section. The claimant states, in his proposal, that he has full knowledge of the
laws and- regulations of the department on the subject of mail
transportation. He no doubt knew that this regulation proyided that -the Postmaster-General could discontinue entirely
the service for which he proposed, whenever in his judgment
the public interests required it,. and that for such discontinuance ,or month's pay was to be deemed a full indemnity to the
contractor. There was reserved, to the Postmaster-General the
power to annul the contract when his judgment advised that it
should be *done, and the compensation to the, contractor was
specified. An indemnity agreed upon as the amount to be
-

Oct. 1876.]

WHITESIDE ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.

paid for cancelling a contract, must, we think, afford the
measure of damages for illegally refusing to award it.
Judgment reversed, and cause remitted, that a judgment may
be rendered in favor of the appellant for a sum equal to one
month's compensation under the proposal made by him and
accepted by the Postmaster-General.

WHITESIDE ET AL. V.

UNITED STATES.

1. An assistant special agent of the Treasury Department has no authority to
bind the United States by contract, to repay the expenses of transporting,
repairing, &c., abandoned or captured cotton.
2. The government is not bound by the act or declaration of its agent, unless it
manifestly appears that he acted within the scope of his authority, or was
employed in his capacity as a public agent to do the act or make the declaration for it.
8. Individuals, as well as courts, must take notice of the extent of authority conferred by law upon a person acting in an official capacity.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims.
This was a suit brought Dec. 21, 1871, against the United
States, to recover $17,356, expended by claimants in hauling,
baling, and ginning cotton in Arkansas, in 1865, under a contract with A. B. Miller, assistant special agent of the treasury,
made at Camden, Ark., dated Nov. 10, 1865, by which they
agreed to proceed to La Fayette County, procure evidence of
the right of the United States to cotton there, put the same into
shipping order, and transport it to Camden, for a half-interest in
all cotton condemned. In all cases of a release after a seizure,
upon sufficient evidence, they were to be repaid "all expenses
of transportation, repairing," &c. In November and December,
1865, they delivered to Miller three lots of cotton, aggregating
five hundred and twenty-two bales. Two of these lots, comprising- four hundred and fifty-one bales, were, Jin. 9, 1866,
taken from the warehouse at Camden, by General May, commanding the district, and turned over to one Harvey, the alleged
owner of them. The claimants had hauled ihe cotton nearly
eighty miles, rebaled it, &c., and ginned a part, for wL.-eh they
were nev&r paid. Two undated vouchers, ce tified by Miller
and approved by 0. H. Burbridge, supervising special agent
of the treasury, were given the claimants, showing the total

