326

BRANT V. VIRGINIA COAL & IRON CO. ET AL.

[SuF. Ct.

it matured. Talty might then have paid the amount due upon
it to the defendant in error, and could thereupon have defended succssfully in a suit on the note, whether brought by
Kendig or any indorsee taking it after due. He might also,
after making the tender, have filed his bill in equity, making
Kendig and the savings-bank defendants, and thus have settled
the rights of all the parties in that litigation. Having sued at
law without making the t~nder, it is clear he was not entitled
to recover.
The instruction given by the court to the jury was, therefore, correct.
" The proceeding and judgment were according to the local
law regulating the action of replevin in the District of
Columbia.
In the discussion here our attention was called only to the
question of tender: nothing was said as to the rule of damages laid down by the court below.
Ther6 is another question arising upon the record, and that
is, whether the defendant in error, being a bona fide purchaser,
did not, under the circumstances, acquire the absolute ownership of the claim. Story on Agency, sect. 127; Addis v.
Baker, 2 Anst. 229; MNiel v. The Tenth National Bank,
46 N. Y. 325; Tatman v. Lobach, 1 Duer, 524; Weirick v.
The Mahoning County Bank, 16 Ohio, 297; Fullertonv. Sturgess, 4 Ohio St. 529.

But as the point has not been argued, we express no opinion
upon the subject.
Judgment affirmed.

BRANT v. VIRGINIA COAL AND IRON CoMPAN-Y et al.
1. Where a testator made a bequest to his wife of all his estate, real and persounal, "to have and to hold during her life, and to do with as she sees proper
before her death," the wife took a life-estate in the property, with only such
power as a life-tenant can have, and her conveyance of the real property
passed no greater interest.
2. For the application of the doctrine of equitable estoppel, there must generally
be sbme intended deception in the conduct or declarations of the party to
be estopped, or such gross negligence on his part as amounts to constructive
fraud, by which another has been misled to his injury.
8. Where the estoppel relates to the title of real property, it is essential to the

Oct. 1876.]

BRANT V. VIRGINIA COAL & IRON CO. ET AL.

327

application of the doctrine, that the party claiming to have been influenced
by the conduct or declarations of another was himself not only destitute
of knowledge, of the true state of the title, but also of any convenient and
available means of acquiring such knowledge. Where the condition of the
title is known to both parties/or both have the same means of ascertaining
the truth, there is no estoppel.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of West Virginia.
In April, 1831, Robert Sinclair, of Hampshire County, Va.,
died, leaving a widow and eight surviving children. He
was, at the time of his death, possessed of some personal property, 'and the real property in controversy, consisting of one
hundred and ten acres. By his last will and testament he
made the following devise: "I give and bequeath to my
beloved wife, Nancy Sinclair, all my estate, both real and personal; that is to say, all my lands, cattle, horses, sheep, farming utensils, household and kitchen furniture, with every thing
that I possess, to have and to hold during her life, and to do
with as she sees proper before her death." The will was duly
probated in the proper county.
In July, 1839, the widow, for the consideration of $1,100,
executed a deed'to the Union Potomac Company, a corporation
created under the laws of Virginia, of the-real property thus
devised to her, describing it as the tract or parcel on which
she then resided, and the same which was conveyed to her "by
the 'last will and testament of her late husband." As security
for the payment of the consideration, she took at the time
from the company its bond and a mortgage npon the property.
The mortgage described the property' as the tract of land
which had on that day been conveyed by her to the Union
Potomac Company.
In 1854 this bond and mortgage were assigned to the complainant and Hector Sinclair, the latter a son of the widow,
in consideration of $100 cash, and the yearly payment of the
like sum during her life. Previous to this, time, Brant and
Hector Sinclair had purchased the interest of all the other
heirs, except Jane Sinclair, who 'was at the time, and still is,
an idiot, or an insane person; and such purchase is recited
in the assignment, as is also the previous conveyance of a lifeinterest to the company.

328

BRANT V. VIRGINIA COAL

& IRON Co.

ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

In July, 1857, these parties instituted suit for the foreclosure of the mortgage and sale of the property. The bill
described the property as a tract of valuable coal land which
the company had purchased of the widow, and' prayed for the
sale of the estate purchased. Copies of the deed of the widow
and of the mortgage of the company were annexed to the bill.
In due course of proceedings a decree was obtained directing a
sale, by commissioners appointed for that purpose, of the property, describing it as. "the lands in the bill and proceedings
mentioned," if certain payments were not made within a designated period. The payments not being made, the commissioners, in December, 1858, sold the mortgaged property to one
Patrick Hammill, who thus succeeded to all the rights of the
Union Potomac Company.
The defendant corporation, the Virginia Coal and Iron Company, derive their title and interest in the premises by sundry
mesne conv6yances from Hammill, and in 1867 went into their
possession. Since then it has cut down a large amount of"
valuable timber, and has engaged in mining and extracting
coal from the land, and disposing of it.
Brant, having acquired the interest of Hector Sinclair,
brought the present suit tb restrain the company from mining
and extracting coal from the land, and to compel an accounting
for the timber cut and the coal taken and converted to its use.
The court below dismissed the bill, whereupon Brant brought
the case here.
Argued by Mr. John T ZieKinnon and Mr. George W:.
Brandt for the appellant.
Under the will, Nancy Sinclair took only a life-estate. The
testator having failed to devise the fee, it descended to his
heirs. She had no power, nor did she attempt to divest them
of it.
Real and personal property of an intestate is, under the
statute of Virginia, .distributed equally among his heirs-atlaw. The rule is. the same where the owner in fee of lands
devises them to another for life, without making any specific
disposition of the inheritance.
A rule never to be lost sight of in the construction of wills
is, that the heir is not to be disinherited without an express

Oct. 1876.]

BRANT V. VIRGINIA COAL & IRON CO. ET AL.

329

devise, or implication importing so strong a probability, that
an intention to the contrary cannot be supposed. 1 Redf. on
Wills, p. 425, n. 5, p. 434, sect. 18; Allen's Ex'r v. Allen,
18 How. 391.
Negative words are not sufficient to exclude the title of the
heir. There must be an actual gift to some other definite
object. Pitch v. Teber, 6 Hare, 145; 1 Redf. on Wills, 425.
Courts will look at the circumstances under which the
devisor makes his will, as to the state of his property, his
family, and the like. 1 Redf. on Wills, 425.
In a deed, the words govern the intention. In a will, the intention governs the words. Edwards v. Bibb, 43 Ala. 666.
It is an old and equitable rule, that the reversion is not to
be defeated, or the heirs despoiled by implication, without
express words. Dashwood v. Peyton, 18 Ves. 40.
No words authorizing Mr.-Sinclair to sell and convey the
fee can be found in the will, either in connecti6n with the
life-estate or elsewhere.
The leading case of Bradley v. Westeott, 13 Ves. 445, id
strikingly analogous to that at bar. In both there is an ex-.
press devise for life, followed by an ambiguous authority or
discretion; and in each the authority or power is confined to
natural life.
Applying the doctrine in that case to this, it cannot be contended that the still less potent and greatly more ambiguous
language following the express devise for life in this case is to
have a different meaning or be differently construed. Smith
v. Bell, 6 Pet. 80, Gregory v. Cowgill, 19 Mo. 415, Boyd et al.
v. Strahan, 36 Ill. 355, Seigwald v. Seigwald, 37 id. 431, and
Cox et al. v. Butt et al., 22 Ark. 568, are to the same effect as
T
Bradley v. W
estcott, supra, and settle the question as to what
estate Mrs. Sinclair took, and what power she had under the
will.
The complainant is in no manner or way estopped by reason
of the foreclosure proceeding or by the sale thereunder. To
estop him in any view of the case, the defence must show that
his language or conduct was the direct motive or inducement
to the purchase. This has not even been attempted. Ware
v. Cowles, 24 Ala. 446; Jones v. Cowles, 26 id. 612; Brewer

330

BRANT V. VIRGINIA COAL & IRON Co. ET 'AL.

[Sup. Ct.

v. Brewer, 19 id. 431; I$orton v. Hodgdon, 32 Me. 327; Cambridge Inst. v. Bittlefield, 6 Cush. 216; Watkins v. Peck, 13
N. H. 360; Darlington's Appeal, 1 Harris, 430 Carpenter v.
Stilwell, 1 Kern. 61.
Ignorance of the true state of the title on the part of the purchaser must concur with wilful misrepresentation or fraudulent
concealment on the part of the vendor. Crest v. Jack, 3 Watts,
238; Hepburn v. MeDowell, 17 Serg. & R. (Pa.) 383; Ferrisv.
Coover, 10 Cal. 509; Casey v. Iloes, 1 Gilm. 430; Lawrence
v. Brown, 1 Seld. 394; Hill v. pley, 7 Casey, 331; Goodson v.
Beacham, 24 Ga. 150; Parker v. Parker,2 Met. 421.
No estoppel will arise in the absence of actual fraud, unless
the purchaser was not only ignorant of the true state of the
title, but had no means of acquiring knowledge by a recourse
to the record. Bigelow v. Topliff, 25 Vt. 273; Carter v. Champion, 8 Conn. 554.
Argued 1iy Mr. -E.. Wyatt Blanehard for the appellee.
Notwithstanding the assumed defect in Mrs. Sinclair's
original title under the will, 'the appellant is entitled to no
relief, and is estopped from denying the validity of the appellee's title: first, as privy in estate of Mrs. Sinclair, under
whom he claimed in the foreclosure proceedings; second, by
his own declarations of record in those proceedings, his nonassertion at that time of the title he now claims, and by
various acts in connection with the foreclosure sale, and subsequently thereto.
It is not necessary to the application of the doctrine of
estoppel that fraud in fact should be charged or shown. It
rests on a broad principle of equity, which will not permit a
party to a transaction, even when made under a mistake of
title, to receive its fruits, and afterwards repudiate it. Assertions innocently made, but which mislead others; silence as to
conflicting claims, or as to facts which shoild have been disclosed; recitals in deeds; descriptions of title; covenants;
warranties,- all or any will give rise to the application of this
principle for the protection of a purchaser, in the class of cases
known as cases of constructive fraud.
. It is a principle of universal application, that a person assenting $o an act, and deriving and enjoying a "title under it,

Oct. 1876.]

BRANT V. VIRGINIA COAL & IRON Co. ET AL.

331

shall not be permitted to impeach it. 2 Wash. Real. Prop.
b. 3, p. 472; 11 How. 322, 325, 326; 5 Johns. Ch. 184;
1 id. 354; 12 Wall. 858; 13 id. 291.
Nor can any controlling authority be found for applying the
rule caveat emptor to this class of cases.
The evidence is uncontradicted, that the sum agreed to be
paid to Mrs. Sinclair was at the time the full value of the
property in fee-simple, subject to the life-estate reserved by
her. Whatever, therefore, she conveyed was to be paid for as
a fee-simple estate. Her acceptance of the mortgage in fee, to
secure the payment of the purchase-money, was a distinct act
in pais, recognizing the existence of a title in fee in the Union
Potomac Company.
In the application of the doctrine of estoppel, the question
whether the acts done by the parties are legally effectual is
excluded. The sole question- is, What did they intend to do?
In this case, the conclusion is irresistible, that Mrs. Sinclair
intended to part with the fee for a then fair price. Her opinions, purposes, or unknown views must yield to the force of her
solemn act,; and for the protection of others against her and
her privies in estate, if the purchaser believed himself acquiring
a fee as against her and them, his estate is a fee. Although it
is not intended to charge that the complainant in this and in
the foreclosure case committed the fraud of conducting that
proceeding with his present opinion of his title, or with the
purpose of selling the lands, receiving the proceeds, and then
reclaiming them, the effect is the same as if he had acted with
such guilty purpose. Every line of the record of that proceeding shows that the officers of the court did not sell the lifeestate of Mrs. Sinolair, but that they did offer "the lands
mentioned in the proceedings," with that life-estate reserved,
in such explicit terms, that no successful bidder could fail to
conclude that he was the purchaser of the fee.
The power of disposition of Mrs. Sinclair, under the will of
her husband, equally affects all descriptions of the prbperty
devised. Nothing is to be found in the will to indicate any
purpose on his part to distinguish her dominion over his real
and personal estate.
The construction claimed by the appellant requires that the

332

BRANT

V. VIRGINIA COAL

& IRON CO. ET AL.

[Stip. Ct.

words of power shall be held to refer to the words creating the
estate, so as to read, "to have and to bold during life, and to do
with as she sees proper, according to the powers of a life-tenant." When the testator gave all to his wife, to have and to
hold during her life, he, without superadded words, gave every
power incident to that estate. The appellant, in effect, rejects
the words of power, and treats them as surplusage.
That construction rests on the presumed intention of the testator to die intestate as to the remainder of his effects, real and
personal, in order that they might pass to his heirs-at-law subSect to the life-estate devised to his wife; but such intention is
not to be presumed if any other construction be possible, especially where a devise like this is of the -testator's entire estate.
2 Preston on Estates, 103. Where the devise is general, with
words added implying a power of disposition, the devisee takes
a fee.
Where an express estate for life is given with such words of
power added, the devisee takes an estate for life, and the power
must be exercised. 2 -Preston on Estates, 81, 82 ; Cruise, tit.
Devise, c. 13, sect. 5; Jackson v. Robins, 16 Johns. 537; Stevens v. Winship, 1 Pick. 318; Reid v. Shergold, 10 Ves. 370;
Guthrie -v. Guthrie, 1 Call, 7; Shermer v. Shermer's Ex'r,
1 Wash. 266; Burwell v. Anderson, 3 Leigh, 355; 2 Johns.
392; May v. Joynes, 20 Gratt. 692. The power is a distinct
gift, and is not limited to a disposition of the life-interest,
but will pass the fee. 3 Lomax, Dig. 317 ; 2 Preston, 81, 82;
8 Viner's Abr. 234, 235, sects. 2, 3, 4, 9, 8, 14. Nor is any
special form of words necessary to give the power of disposition of the fee to the life-tenant.
The current of authority is unbroken, that words of power fol1owing a gift for life, and uncontrolled by other parts of the
will, give either a fee,.or a life-estate with power to dispose of
the fee. Mrs. Sinclair's deed, therefore, either conveyed, and
was meant to convey, nothing, or was intended to operate according to the legal effect of its words upon the reversion.

MIR. JUsTIce FIELD stated the case, and delivered the opinion of the-court.
The disposition of the case, depends upon the construction

Oct. 1876.]

BRANT V. VIRGINIA COAL & IRON CO. ET AL.

333

given to the devise of Robert Sinclair to his widow, and the
operation of the foreclosure proceedings as an estoppel upon
the complainant from asserting title to the property.
The complainant contends that the widow took a life-estate
in the property, with only such power as a life-tenant can
have, and that her conveyance, therefore, carried no -greater
interest to the Union Potomac Company. The defendant
corporation, on the other hand, insists, that, with the lifeestate, the widow took full power to dispose of the property
absolutely, and that her conveyance accordingly passed the
fee.
We are of opinion that the position taken by the complainant is the correct one. The interest conveyed by the devise to
the widow was only a life-estate. The language used admits
of no other conclusion; and the accompanying words, " to do
with as she sees proper before-her death," only conferred power
to deal with the property in such manner as she might choose,
consistently with that estate, and, perhaps, without liability for
waste committed. These words, used in connection with a
conveyance of a leasehold estate, would never be understood as
conferring a power to sell the property so as to pass a greater
estate. Whatever power of disposal the words confer is limited
by the estate with which they are conneted.
In the case of .Bradley v. Westeott, reported in the 13th of
Vesey, the testator gave all his personal estate to his wife for
her sole use for life, to be at her full, free, and absolute disposal and disposition during life; and the court held, that, as
the testator had given in express terms an interest for life, the
ambiguous words afterwards thrown in could not extend that
interest to the absolute property. " I must construe," said the
Master of the Rolls, "the subsequent words with reference to
the express interest for life previously given, that she is to
have as full, free, and absolute disposition as a tenant for life
can have."
In Smith v. Bell, reported in the 6th of Peters, the testator
gave all his personal estate, after certain payments, to his wife,
"to and for her own use and disposal absolutely," with a provision that the remainder after her decease should go to his
son. The court held that the latter clause qualified the former,

334

BRANT V. VIRGINIA COAL & IRON Co. ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

and showed that the wife only took a life-estate. In construing
the language of the devise, Chief Justice Marshall, after observing that the operation of the words "to and for her own use
and benefit and disposal absolutely," annexed to the bequest,
standing alone, could not be questioned, said, "But suppose
the testator had added the words ' during her natural life,' these
words would have restrained those which preceded them, and
have limited the use and benefit, and the absolute disposal
given by the prior words, to the use and benefit and to a disposal for the life of the wife. The words, then, are susceptible
6f such limitation. It may be imposed on them b, other
words. Even the words 'disposal absolutely' may have their
character qualified by restraining words connected with and
explaining.them, to mean such absolute disposal as a tenant for
life may make."
The Chief Justice then proceeded to show that other equivalent words might be used, equally manifesting the intent of
the testator to restrain the estate of the wife- to her life, and
that the words, "devising a remainder to the son," were thus
equivalent.
In Boyd v. Strakan, 36 Ill. 355, there was a bequest to the
wife of all the personal property of the testator not otherwise
disposed of, "to be at her own disposal, and for her own proper
use and benefit during her natural life;" and the court held
that the words "during her natural life" so qualified the power
of disposal, as to make it mean such disposal as a tenant for life
could make.
I Numerous other cases to the same purport might be cited.
They all show, that where a power of disposal accompanies
a bequest or devise of a life-estate, the power is limited to
such disposition as a tenant for life can make, unless there
are other words clearly indicating that a larger power was
intended.
The position -that the complainant is estopped, by the proceedings for the foreclosure of the mortgage, from asserting
title to the property, has less plausibility than the one already
considered. 'There was nothing in the fact that the complainant
And Hector Sinclair owned seven-eighths of the reversion, which
prevented them from taking a mortgage upon the life-estate, or

Oct. 1876.]

BRANT V. VIRGINIA COAL & IRON CO. ET AL.

3.35

purchasing one already executed. There was no misrepresentation of the character of the title, which they sought to
subject to sale by the foreclosure suit. The bill of complaint
in the suit referred to the deed from the widow to the Union
Potomac Company, and to the mortgage executed to secure
the consideration; and copies were annexed.
The deed
described the property sold as the tract conveyed to the
widow by the last will and testament of her late husband.
The mortgage described the property as the tract of ]and conveyed on the same day to the mortgagor. The decree ordering
the sale described the property as "the lands in the bill and
proceedings mentioned." The purchaser was bound to take
notice of the title. He was directed to its source by the pleadings in the case. The doctrine of caveat emptor applies to all
judicial sales of this -character; the purchaser takes only the
title which the mortgagor possessed. And here, as a matter of
fact, he knew that he was obtaining only a life-estate by his
purchase. He so stated at the sale, and frequently afterwards.
There is no evidence that either the complainant or Hector
Sinclair ever made any representations to the defendant corporation to induce it to buy the property from the purchaser at
the sale, or that they made any representations to any one
respecting the title, inconsistent with the fact; but, on the
contrary, it is abundantly established by the evidence in the
record, that from the time they took from the widow the assignment of the bond and mortgage of the Union Potomac
Company in 1854, they always claimed to own seven-eighths
of the reversion.
The assignment itself recited that the
widow bad owned, and had sold to that company, a lifeinterest in the property, and that they bad acquired the interest of the heirs.
It is difficult to see where the doctrine of equitable estoppel
comes in here. For the application of that doctrine there must
generally be some intended deception in the conduct or declarations of the party to be estopped, or such gross negligence on
his part as to amount to constructive fraud, by which another
has been misled to his injury. "In all this class of cases," says
Story, "1the doctrine proceeds upon the ground of constructive
fraud' r. of gross negligence,' which in effect implies fraud.

336

BRANT V. VIRGINIA COAL &IRON-Co.

ETAL.

[Sup. Ct.

And, therefore, when the circumstances of the case repel any
such inference, although there may be some degree of negligence, yet courts of equity will not grant relief. It has been
accordingly laid down by a very learned judge that the cases
on this subject go to this result only, that there must be positive
fraud or concealment, or negligence so gross as to amount to
constructive fraud." 1 Story's Eq. 391. To the same purport
is the language of the adjudged cases. Thus it is said by the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, that "the primary ground of
the doctrine is, that it would be a fraud in a party to assert
what his previous conduct had denied, when on the faith of
that denial others have acted. The element of fraud is essential
either in the intention of the party estopped, or in the effect'of
the evidence which he attempts to set up." .Hill v. Eppley,
31 Penn. St. 334; Henshaw v. Bissell, 18 Wall. 271; Biddle
Boggs v. Merced Mining Company, 14 Cal. 368 ; -Davisv. -Davis,
26 id. 23; Commonwealth v. Moltz, 10 Barr, 531; Copeland .v.
Copeland, 28 Me. 539; Delaplaine v. Hfitchcock, 6 Hill, 616;
Hcavis v. iarohant,1 Curt. C. C. 136; Zuchtmann v. _obert,
109 Mass. 53. And it would seem that to the enforcement of
an estoppel of this character with respect to the title of property,
such as will prevent a party from asserting his legal rights, and
the effect of which will be to transfer the enjoyment of the
property to another, the intention to deceive and mislead,
or negligence so gross as to be culpable, should be clearly
established.
There are undoubtedly cases where a party maybe concluded
from aserting his original rights to property in consequence of
his acts or conduct, in which the presence of fraud, actual or
constructive, is wanting; as, where one of two innocent parties
must suffer from the negligence of another, he through whose
agency the negligence was occasioned will be held to bear the
loss; and where one has received the fruits of a transaction, he
is not permitted to deny its validity whilst retaining its benefits.
But such cases are generally referable to other principles than
that of equitable estoppel, although the same result is produced;
thus the first case here mentioned is the affixng of liability
upon the party who from negligence indirectly occasioned the
injury, -and the second is the application of the doctrine of

Oct. 1876.]

THE "JUNIA- - TA."

ratification -or election. Be this as it may, the general ground
of the application of the principle of equitable estoppel is as we
have stated.
It is also essential for its application with respect to the
title of real property that the party claiming to have been
influenced by the conduct or declarations of another to his
injury was himself not only destitute of knowledge of the
true state of the title, but also of any convenient and available means of acquiring such knowledge. Where the condition of the title is known to both parties, or both have the
same means of ascertaining the truth, there can be no estoppel. Crest v. Jack, 3 Watts, 240; _Knouff v. Thompson, 4 Harris, 361.
Tested by these views, the defence of estoppel set up in this
case entirely fails.
The decree of the Circuit Court must be reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings in accordance with this
opinion; and it is so
Ordered.
MR. JUSTICE SwAYEit and MR. JUSTICE DAvis dissented.

THE " JUNIATA."
1. The doctrine announced in The Atlas, supra, p. 302, that where an innocent
party suffers damages by a collision resulting from the mutual fault of two
vissels, only one of which is libelled, the decree should be against such
vessel for the whole amount of the damages, and not for a moiety thereof,
reaffirmed, and applied to this case.
2. This court will not, in a case of collision, reverse the concurrent decrees of the
courts below, upon a mere difference of opinion as to the weight and effect
of conflicting testimony. To warrant a reversal, it must be clear that the
lower courts have committed an error, and that a wrong has been done to
the appellant.

APPEALS from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Louisiana.
Argued by Hr. Assistant Attorney- General Smith and Mr.
Thomas 37 Durant for the libellants, and by Mr. Morton P.
Hfenry for the claimants.
VOL. ii.

22

