Oct. 1876.]

SMITH ET AL. V. GAINES.

SMITHi ET AL.

v.

GAINES.

1. Under the laws of Louisiana, sureties in an appeal-bond, which operates as a
supersedeas, are liable, by a summary proceeding, to judgment, after execution on the original judgment has been issued, and a return of nulla bona
made by the proper officer.
2. The officer who made this return cannot be compelled to amend or modify it,
nor can its truth be questioned in the subsequent proceeding against the
sureties.
8. It is no defence that the defendant in the original judgment has been garnished,
or the judgment sold, at the instance of creditors of the plaintiff, where the
'sureties have not been made parties to the proceedings to appropriate such
judgment.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
Submitted on printed argument by M1r. James McConnell for
the plaintiffs in error.
Argued by Mr.James Emott for the defendant in error.

MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

Mrs. Gaines, the defendant in error, having recovered a decree
against the City of New Orleans for the sum of $125,266.79, in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Louisiana, the city took an appeal to this court; and, for the purpose
of superseding the execution of the decree, the plaintiffs in
error gave the bond which is the foundation of the present suit.
The decree was affirmed; and, on return of the mandate,
an execution was issued against the city for the amount of
the decree and costs, which was placed in the hands of the
marshal. That officer made return on this execution that he
had not been able to find any property of the city subject to
the writ, and that though he had called on the proper officers
of the city, and on the counsel of Mrs. Gaines, neither of them
had pointed out to him such property. On this return the
cdansel of Mrs. Gaines, pursuing the practice prescribed by
the laws of Louisiana in such cases, procured from the Circuit
Court a rule on the sureties in the supersedeas bond, to show
cause why judgment should not be entered against them on
their undertaking, and execution issue thereon for the amount
of the decree and all necessary costs.

SMITH ET AL.

v.

GAINES.

[Sup. Ct.

To this rule the defendants set up two answers, to wit: 1. That the return of the marshal was false, and that there
was property of the city liable to the execution which had been
shown the marshal, sufficiefit to pay the same.
2. That, by proceedings of certain creditors of Mrs. Gaines,
in the State courts of Louisiana, by way of garnishee and
otherwise, the judgment had been sold and was held by the
parties, and her right to the money due from the city seized
and held for 'the benefit of those creditors.
In aid of the first defence, and while the case was pending,
the sureties obtained a rule on the marshal to show cause why
he should not amend his return in the matter in which they
alleged it to be false.
To this rule the marshal answered, that the return was made
on his official responsibility; that the same was true and sufficient, and he did not desire to change it. This rule came on
to be heard with the rule for judgment against the sureties,
and the court-dismissed it. On this hearing the sureties offered
evidence tending to show that there was property liable 'to
execution belonging to the city, which evidence was rejected,
and an exception was taken to the ruling of the court. This
evidence was offered-on both issues; namely, that regarding the
amendment of the marshal's return, and that regarding the liability of the sureties on the bond. This ruling of the court is
the first error assigned here.
We are of opinion that the action of the court was correct.
At common law, the sureties on the bond would be liable to
a suit without issuing an execution against the principal. The
fact that the judgment appealed from was affirmed and was
unpaid would be sufficient. Their undertaking is to pay in
that event, and they must do it. But the Code of Practice of
Louisiana of 1870, sect. 596, says: "If, on the execution of the judgment of the Appellate Court,
there is not sufficient property of the appellant to satisfy the judgment and costs, the appellee may obtain judgment against the surety
given by the appellant: Provided,that no suit. shall be instituted
against such sufety until the necessary steps have been taken to
enforce payment against the principal."

Oct. 1876.]

SMITH ET AL. V.

GAINES.

How the want of sufficient property of the appellant is to be
shown, and what are "the necessary steps to enforce payment
against the principal," are shown by sect. 570 of the Revised
Statutes of the same year, which is as follows: "In all cases of appeal to the Supreme Court, or other tribunal
in this State, if the judgment appealed from be affirmed, the plaintiff may, on the return of the execution that no property has been
found, obtain a decree against the surety on the appeal-bond for the
amount of the juidgment, on motion, after ten days' notice; which
motion shall be tried summarily, and without the intervention of a
jury."
It is a fair inference from these two provisions that the issue
of an execution and the return on it of the proper officer of
nulla bona is what is required, and all that ,is required, to render perfect the obligation of the sureties to pay. This seems
to have been the view of the Louisiana courts also, under the
code formerly in existence, with similar provisions to those we
have quoted. Allen v. Hawthorne,1 La. Ann. 123; Rawlings v.
Barham, 12 id. 630; Walls v. Roach, 10 id. 543.
As regards the effort to compel the marshal to amend his
return, we think his answer contains a reply which is conclusive. In making that return, he acts under a heavy official
responsibility. If false, he is liable to plaintiff and to defendant for any damages resulting from it. He must, therefore, be
at liberty to make his own return, subject to that responsibility.
Nor do we think his return can be questioned by the sureties.
It is declared by the law to be the appropriate evidence of the
right to proceed against them. It is an official act. If they
had desired him to exercise it otherwise than he did, they
might, by showing him property, have possibly rendered him
liable for a false return, and, by paying the debt, avail themselves of this liability. But we do not think that either the
spirit of the statute or the justice of the case permits an inquiry
into the truth of the officer's return in the subsequent proceeding against the sureties. It is analogous to the return of nulla
bona as the foundation of a creditor's bill in chancery, which
cannot be questioned. There was, therefore, no error in iejecting this evidence and in holding the defence founded on it
insufficient.

COCKLE ET AL. V.

FLACK ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

As to the objection that Mrs. Gaines's interest in the judgment had been attached, assigned, and sold, that is nothing to
these defendants. Until the judgment is paid or satisfied, they
are liable. Until they are garnished or enjoined, they have no
defence. The equitable owners of the judgment have a right
to use Mrs. Gaines's name as the judgment plaintiff to procure judgment against the sureties, and probably are pursuing
this remedy. If, after judgment, when their liability is decided,
or if they admit it and are ready to pay, they can easily protect themselves by a bill of interpleader, by payment into court,
or by some other appropriate remedy; but, while contesting
their liability to anybody on the bond, they have no right to
interfere am ng those who are claiming the benefit of the judgment, - a judgment which is not against them, and theliability
to pay which they deny.
When that disputed liability is affirmed, the court will, if
requested, find means to protect them from paying it more
than once.
Judgment affirmed.

COCKL:E ET AL. v. FLACK ET AT,.
1. Where a commission-merchant, in Baltimore, advanced to a pork-packer, in
Peoria, $100,000, for which he was to receive interest at the rate of ten per
cint per annum, and a fixed coinmission for the sale of the product, to be
paid whether it was sold by the commission-merchant or not, it was properly left to the jury to decide on all the facts whether or not the commissions
were a cover for usury, or were an honest contract for commission business,
in connection with use of money.
2. The expresragreement of ten per cent is not usurious, because lawful in Illinois, though not so in Maryland. Andrews v. Pond, 13 Pet. 65, reaffirmed.

ERR oR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
Mr. Robert G. Ingersollfor the plaintiffs in error.
Mr. S. T. Wallis, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

Plaintiffs in error, were engaged in the business of packing
pork in Peoria, -Ill., and The defendants were commission-merchants at Baltimore, in the fall of 1872, when the contract was

