OSTERBERG V. UNION TRUST CO.

[Sup. Ct.

and then stops, but taxes champagne in bottles, and declares
in words that each bottle shall also be taxed, the argument is
at an end. The authorities cited on this branch of the case are
all within the principles we have laid down. We find nothing
in them in conflict with these positions.
Nor do we attach importance to the manner in which the
paragraph of the statute we are considering is divided. Wines,
and apparently the entire class of wines, is the subject of this
paragraph.
*Whiskey of domestic manufacture, spirituous
liquors of whatever character, imported from other countries,
are elsewhere taxed. Here Congress was giving its attention
to the subject of wines. It intended to include as subjects of
taxation wine of every character, and whether imported in
casks or bottles. Duties were imposed upon it in each form as
prescribed, unless it contained more than twenty-two per centum
of alcohol, in which case it was declared to be forfeited.
Whether the provision for taxing the bottle should be found
in one place or another, we do not consider very material. Is
it there, is the question. We find the duty on the bottle
plainly laid in two different parts of the paragraph, and we are
all of the opinion that it applies to champagne as well as to
other wines.
Judgment affirmed.

OSTERBERG V.

UNioN TRUST COMPANY.

1. A lien for taxes does not stand upon the footing of an ordinary incumbrance;
and, unless otherwise directed by statute, is not displaced by a sale of the
property under a pre-existing judgment or decree.
2. As the rule of caveat eniptor applies to a purchaser at a judicial sale, under a
decree foreclosing a mortgage, lie cannot retain from his bid a sum sufficient to pay a part of the taxes on the property which were a subsisting lien
at the date of the decree of foreclosure.
3. Where such a purchaser, having failed to punctually comply with the terms
of sale, is granted an extension of time by the court, the property in the
mean time to remain in the possession of a receiver, he is not entitled to any
of the earnings of the property while it so remains in the possession of the
latter, nor is lie in a position to question the orders of the court as to their
application.
4. Before the commencement of a suit to foreclose a mortgage, some of the
lands covered by it had been transferred to a trustee, by way of indem-

Oct. 1876.]

OSTERBERG V. UNION TRUST Co.

nity against a bond upon which he was surety for the mortgagor, and sold
by the trustee, with the consent of the mortgagee. The proceeds thereof were
subsequently paid over to the receiver appointed in the foreclosure suit.
The decree did not order the sale of the lands from which such proceeds
arose, nor did the master attempt to sell them. Hield, that the purchaser
at the foreclosure sale acquired no right to such proceeds.
.APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The Rockford, Rock Island, and St. Louis Railroad Company
issued certain bonds secured by its mortgages to the Union
Trust Company, the trustee of the bondholders. The trustee
filed its bill to foreclose the mortgages, June 11, 1874, in the
court below; and on the 29th of the following October a receiver was appointed to take charge of the money, real and personal assets of the company, and all its rights and property,
with power to exercise its franchises, and, if need be, to sell,
transfer, and convey, under the direction of the court, the whole
or any part of the property; and it was further ordered, that
the company and Lynde and Cable, or whoever may have possession thereof, do assign and deliver to the receiver the prop.
erty, and all equitable interests, things in action, and other
effects belonging to or held in trust for the company, or in
which it had any beneficial interest, .right, or title, at the time
of filing the bill. The deed executed by the company pursuant
to that order transfers to the receiver" all and every the estate,
real and personal, chattels real, moneys, outstanding debts,
things in action, equitable interests, property, and effects whatsoever and wheresoever, of or belonging or due to, or held in
trust for, the said railroad company, or in which it had any
interest, right, or title, at. the time of filing the bill of
complairnt."
The receiver took possession of the property, and operated
the road. On July 11, 1875, a decree was rendered finding the
amount due the bondholders, and directing the sale of the road
and of certain real estate, specifically described, and of " all
rights, claims, and benefits in and to all leases, contracts, and
agreements made with any parties owning any coal lands, or
mineral lands, or railroad or railroads, or with any other parties
for any other property, together with all and singular the tenemeits and appurtenances thereto belonging, and the reversions,

OSTERBERG V.

UNION TRUST CO.

[Sup. Ct.

remainders, tolls, incomes, rents, issues, and profits thereof; and
also all the estates, rights, titles, and interests whatsoever, as
well at law as in equity, of the said Rockford, Rock Island, and
St. Louis Railroad Company, of, in, and to the same; . . . and
all other property, real and personal, belonging to said Rockford,
Rock Island, and St. Louis Railroad Company, and which is now
in possession of said receiver, and hereinafter deseribed or referred to; and all other property, rights, franchises, aifd things
which shall have been acquired by purchase or otherwise, by the
said receiver, during the pendency of this suit for use in connection with said railroads, and shall be at the time of the sale
hereby decreed in his possession, or to which he may then be
entitled."
The master appointed by the court sold the said road, franchiises,' &c., Aug. 16, 1875; and, when offering it, publicly
declared, "I am ordered by the court to say, that from the proceeds of the sale will be retained a sum sufficient to provide
for the taxes of 1873 and 1874."
The appellant became the purchaser of the property for the
stun of $1,320,000, and paid in cash, conformably to the order
directing the sale, $200,000. On the 3d of November, 1875,
the court, upon the report of the master, made a further order,
directing that the appellant be let into possession on the payment of an additional sum of $350,000, and the delivery of
coupons and bonds of a specified amount, he to have the earnings of the road and. to pay its expenses after Nov. I of that
year; but the court decreed, that, on the payment by the appellant of the residue of the purchase-money on or before Dec. 5,
1875, the sale should be confirmed, and that the appellant
might apply to the master under the direction of the court for
a deed conveying to him the property purchased at the sale.
He took possession accordingly on the 9th of that month. On
the twenty-eighth day of January, 1876, an order was madeextending the time for the payment of the residue of the purchase-money until the 1st of April.; and on May 27 of that
year an order was made confirming the sale and directing a
conveyance, which was carried into effect.
The receiver continued to act until July 26, 1876, when he
was discharged from his trust. In his formal report of that

Oct. 1876.]

OSTERBERG V. UNION TRUST

Co.

date, he states that he had in his hands four bonds of the
United States, of $1,000 each, on which he had collected interest amounting to $133.80, and the further sum of $1,395.72,
which bonds and money he had received from Henry Curtis, Jr.,
and the sum of $2,000, which he had received from Cornelius
Lynde, and that from the earnings of the road there remained
in his hands the sum of $7,417.13. These moneys and the
bonds were paid into the hands of the clerk of the court. The
taxes on the property for 1875 were not paid by the receiver.
The moneys and bonds received from Curtis and Lynde were
held by them in trust, and were obtained in the following
manner: Before the bill to foreclose was filed, several judgments had
been recovered against the company, from which it desired to
appeal, and Lynde and Curtis, at its instance, became security
upon the appeal-bonds. For the purpose of indemnifying them,
certain lands, covered by said mortgages, were conveyed to Curtis, and certain moneys, the earnings of the road, were deposited with him and Lynde before the commencement of the suit
to foreclose. By the authority of the company, Curtis sold a
part of said lands, and converted a part of the moneys into government bonds. Such of the lands as were not sold by him
were sold under the decree by a specific description. The lands
which had been sold by Curtis were not mentioned or described
in the decree, or in the advertisement of sale. The judgments
were reversed, or otherwise settled and disposed of; and the
property thus held by Curtis and Lynde was released, and they
were discharged from their trust about the month of May,
1876, whereupon they delivered to the receiver the bonds and
money above mentioned, and Curtis conveyed to him the unsold
lands. All the land sold by Curtis was sold before the commencement of the foreclosure suit, and the only money received
by him thereafter was for rents and interest. The lands not
sold by him were conveyed under the order of the court to
the appellant, as the purchaser under the decree.
The appellant, upon these facts, claims that he is justly
entitled at law and in equity to the bonds and moneys delivered to the receiver by Curtis and Lynde, and by him paid into
court.

OSTERBERG V. UNION TRUST Co.

[Sup. O .

By the statutes of the State of Illinois all taxes are made a
lien on the first day of May of each year, for that year. Assessments are made between the first day of May and the first
day of July in each year. They are reviewed by the town and
county boards, and reported to the State auditor for equalization on or before the tenth day of July. The State Board of
Equalization meets on the second Tuesday in August, and within
the first ten days of December of each year books and warrants
for the collection of taxes are delivered to the collectors.
The taxes assessed upon said railroad and franchises, and
propert.y for the year 1875, amounted to the sum of $23,000
and upwards; and the appellant claims that the said .sum of
$7,417.13 is legally and equitably applicable in payment of
said taxes,
The court below held that the money and the proceeds of the
bonds should, with the other funds in court, be distributed
among the creditors, and Osterberg appealed to this court.
Submitted on printed arguments by -Mr. J.. B. Doolittle for
the appellant, and by ir. C. B. Lawrence for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.

We are unable to perceive that the appellant is entitled to
the relief which he seeks.
1. The taxes for 1875 were, at the date of the decree, a subsisting lien, upon the mortgaged property, and he had not only
constructive but actual notice of its existence. It is true that
the title of a purchaser at a judicial sale under a decree of foreclosure takes effect by relation to the date of the mortgage, and
defeats any subsequent lien or incumbrance.- A lien for taxes
does not, however, stand upon the footing of an ordinary incumbrance, and is not displaced by a sale under a pre-existing
judgment or decree, unless otherwise directed by statute. It
attaches to the res without regard to individual ownership, and
when it is enforced by sale pursuant to the statute, prescribing
the mode of assessing and collecting them, the purchaser takes
a valid and unimpeachable title. But if the doctrine were
otherwise, and if the rule of caveat emptor had, no application
to this case, we are not aware of any principle which would
justify withholding from the mortgagee any of the moneys

Oct. 1876.]

OSTERBERG V. UNION 'TRUST CO.

derived from the sale bf the mortgaged property, with a view
to the application of them to satisfy such a lien. This is not
a controversy between incumbrancers. It is, in effect, a proceeding by a purchaser at a, judicial sale to apply a portion of
his bid to the partial discharge of an incumbrance to which he
admits that the property in his hands is- subject. Even if the
law had not imposed on, the purchaser the burden of discharging it, the terms of sale, as announced by the master, clearly
did so.
2. He has no 'rightful claim to any part of the earnings of
the road whilst it remained in the possession of the receiver, nor
is he in a position to question the orders of the court, as to the
application of those earnings. The road would have been surrendered to him at an earlier date had he punctually complied
with the terms of the -sale; but the court, under the peculiar
circumstances of the case, extended to him an indulgence in
making the required payments. In the mean time, the road
remained in the custody of the receiver, and its earnings were
devoted to the payment of current expenses and other meritorious claims.
3. Nor has the appellant a right to the money and government bonds which came to the hands of the receiver from
Henry Curtis and Cornelius Lynde. So soon as they were
relieved from the trust upon which these persons held them,
they belonged in equity to the bondholders. The purchaser
could acquire no right to them, as he bought only the property
which the decree directed to be sold; and it did not order the
sale of this fund, nor did the master attempt to sell it. If the
deed of the receiver to Osterberg is broad enough in its language to cover this fund, it is to that extent void, as he was
only authorized to convey the property previously described
in the decree and sold by the master at the sale.
.Decree affirmed.

