Oct. 1876.]

BOND ET AL. V.

MOORE.

of the respective portions of the legatees, calling each to his
particular part. But in the present case, there is not that
specific and distinct assignment of the parts which in my
judgment is necessary to constitute a distinct legacy to each, of
a distinct portion of the deceased's fortume. He appears to me,
on the contrary, to have called them conjointly to partake
equally in the totality of his estate, and has mentioned the
equality of their portions for the purpose of regulating the
distribution of that totality. They are conjointly his universal
legatees."
In view of these decisions, we cannot hesitate to decide that
the legacy in question is a conjoint legacy, and that the right
of accretion took place in favor of the defendant in error.Judgment affirmed.

BoND ET AL. v. MOORE.
The order of the President of the United States of April 29, 1865 (18 Stat. 776),
removed, from that date, all restrictions upon commercial intercourse between
Tennessee and New Orleans; and neither the rights nor the duties of the
bolder'of a bill of exchange, drawn at Trenton, Tenn., which matured in
New Orleans before June 13, 1865, were dependent upon, or affected by, the
President's proclamation of the latter date (id. 763).

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Tennessee.
This is an action commenced in the Circuit Court of Haywood
County, Tenn., against the defendant in error as indorser of a
bill of exchange drawn at Trenton, Tenn., Feb. 13, 1862, upon
a firm in New Orleans, La., and payable four months after
date. The bill was not presented in New Orleans until June
20, 1865, when, payment being refused, the plaintiff caused it
to be protested.
In their declaration the plaintiffs averred that the earlier
presentation of the bill in New Orleans was prevented by the
obstructions of war, and the interruption of intercourse between
their place of residence and that of the drawees.
Among other defences the defendant interposed a plea that
the bill -wias not presented within a reasonable time after the
removal of such, alleged obstructions.
VOL. 111.

88

BOND ET AL. V. MOOR,[

[Sup. Ct.

The plaintiffs asked the court to charge the jury that the
bill of exchange could not have been legally presented for
payment until after the 13th June, 1865, the date of the
proclamation of President Johnson restoring Tennessee to
commercial relations with the United States; that if the jury
find that, after that date, the plaintiffs exercised reasonable
diligence to have-the bill presented to the drawees, and did so
present it, and ,demand payment, which was refused, and that
thereupon the'same was protested for non-payment, and notice
thereof givei. th the indorser, - they must find for the plaintiffs.
The court refused so to charge, but charged in substance that
the impediment of non-intercourse between the State of Tennessee and the city of New Orleans -a n impediment interposed
by the existence of the war of the rebellion, and during which
the necessity of presenting the bill for payment was suspended
-was
removed and ceased to exist when there was an actual
cessation of hostilities; and that the time when this actual
cessation occurd was a question to be decided by the jury
from the proof before them.
There was a verdict for the defendant. The judgment
thereon was affirmed by the Supieme Court of the State; whereupon the case was brought here.
Mr. Edward J. Bead for the plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Richard T, Merric, contra.
MR. CnnEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The only question in this record which we are asked to
consider is -as to the effect of the President's proclamation
of June 13, 1865, 13 Stat. 763, upon the rights and duties of
parties to commercial paper, residing respectively during the
late civil war in Tennessee and New Orleans, When the paper
matured after the occupatioih of New Orleans by the national
forces.and before the date of that proclamation. This, under
our ruling in Matthews v. MeStea, 20 Wall. 649, is a Federal
question.
On the part of the plaintiffs in error, it is cQntended that the
holders of such paper could not lawfully take step to charge
the parties by demand and notice until the proclamation was

Oct. 1876.]

WEST

WISCONSIN R.R. Co. v. SuPERvISoRS.

595

made, because up to that time the war existed as a fact, and
the parties occupied towards each other the relation of public
enemies. All restrictions upon commercial intercourse between
Tennessee and New Orleans were removed by an executive
order published April 29, 1865, 13 Stat. 776, which was followed by an executive proclamation of similar purport under
date of May 22, 1865, id, 757, so that while the war existed as
a political fact until June 13, the date of the official announcement of its close, business intercourse between the citizens of
the two places was allowed after April 29. Bond, therefore,
as the holder of the bill upon which this suit is brought, might
properly have demanded its payment by the drawee in New
Orleans, and notified his indors~r in Tennessee of the nonpayment at any time after that date. Neither his rights nor
his duties in this particular were in any manner dependent
upon or affected by the proclamation of June 13. We have
already decided to the same effect in Masterson v. Howard,
18 Wall. 105, and Matthews v. McStea, 91 U. S. 7.
Judgment affirmed.

WEST WISCONSIN RAILWAY CONPANY v. BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF TREMPEALEAU COUNTY.
The doctrine announced in Tucker v. Ferguson, 22 Wall. 527, - that an act of the
legislature of a State, exempting property of a railroad company from taxation,
is not, when a mere gratuity on the part of the State, a contract to continue
such exemption, but is always subject to modification and repeal in like manner as other legislation,.- reaffirmed, and applied to this case.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Wisconsin.
Argued by Mr. P. L. Spooner and Mr. Matt. Hf. Carpenter
for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. S. U. Pinney for the
defendants in error.
MR. JUSTIcE SwAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The facts of this case are substantially the same with those
of Tucker v. Ferguson,22 Wall. 527, and the question presented
for our determination does not vary materially from the one
there decided.

