"86

KITCHEN

v.

RANDOfPH.

[Sup. Ct.

KrrcHEN v. RA-DOLPEH.
Unless an appeal is perfected, or a ivrit of error sued out and served within sixty
days, Sundays exclusive, after the rendition of the decree or judgment com.plained of, it is not within the power of a justice of this court to allow a supersedeas.

ON motion to vacate a supersedeas.
This is a motion by the appellee to vacate and set aside an
order made by an associate justice of this court, granting the
petition of the appellant for a supersedeas directing a stay of
all proceedings, under a decree of the Circuit Cotrt of the
United States- for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, foreclosing a mortgage on property of the Wilmington mid Reading Railrbad Company, and ordering a *sale of the same.
The- bill for the -foreclosure and sale was filed by Randolph,
as holder of coupon-bonds of that company, secured by a certain
deed of trnst and mor~age aigainst the company, the trustees
named in the deed and two other juiior mortgages, and the
Baltimore, Philadelphia, and New York Railroad Company, as
original defendants.
-Shbsequently,. KitQhen, a bondholder under a junior mortgage
6fthe Wilmington and Reading Railroad Company was allowed
7
to -intervene as a defendant and file an answer.
The case.was heard on the bill, the answers of the original
defendants, and that of Kitchen ; and, on the 6th of June, 1876,
the court below entered a'decree 'foreclosing the mortgage as
against-certain'of the property and franchises covered by it, and
ordering a :sale by the trustees, after due advertisements for
three- months prior to the day of sale.
The sale was accordingly fixed by due advertisements, as
prescribed by the decree, for the 2d of October, 1'876.
No appeal from this decree, or any part of. it,was prayed in
-the court below by any of the defendants; but, on the 29th of
September, 1876, the appellant filed his petition for the allowance of an appeal and for a supersedeas, both of which were
allowed on that day by the associate justice, and a citation
addiessed to the-coiplai nant below, returna'e "onthe first day
of the present term of this cour, was issued.

Oct. 1876.]

KITCHEN v. RANDOLP,.

The motion was argued by Mr. J. Rubley Ashton for the
appellee, and by Mr. Samuel Dickson and Mr. Wayne Mac Veagh
for the appellant.
MR. CHIF JUSTiCE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The only question presented by this motion is as to the
power of a justice of this court to allow a supersedeas in cases
where an appeal was not taken or a writ of error sued out and
served within sixty days, Sundays exclusive, after the rendition
of the decree or judgment complained of.
The Judiciary Act of 1789 (1 Stat. 84, sect. 22) made provision for a review by this court of judgments and decrees in
civil actions and suits in equity in the circuit courts upon
writs of error accompanied by a citation to the adverse party,
"signed by a judge of such circuit court or justice of the
Supreme Court." By the same section it was further provided, that "every justice or judge, signing a citation on any
writ of error as aforesaid, shall take good and sufficient security, that the plaintiff in error shall prosecute his writ to
effect, and answer all damages and costs if he fail to make
his plea good."
The citation was essential to the validity of the writ, and
without it the writ would be quashed. Lloyd v. Alexander,
1 Cranch, 365. The writ brought up the record, and the citation
the parties. Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 410; Atherton v.
Fowler, 91 U. S. 146. As the security was to be given when
the citation was signed, there could be no valid writ without
the security.
At common law, a writ of error was a supersedeas by implication. Bac. Abr., tit. Supersedeas, D, 4. To avoid the effect
of this rule, the act of 1789 (1 Stat. 85, sect. 23) provided that
a writ of error " shall be a supersedeas, and stay execution in
cases only where the writ of error is served, by a copy thereof
being lodged for the adverse party in the clerk's office where
the record remains, writhin ten days, Sundays exclusive, after
rendering the judgment or passing the decree complained of;"
and in cases where a writ of error might be a 8upersedeas no
execution could issue for ten days.

KITCHEN v. RANDOLPH.

[Sup. Ct.

Under this section it was held, in Hogan v. Ross, 11 How.
.297, that there was no authority," to award a sutpersedeas to
stay proceedings on the judgment of an inferibr court upon the
ground that a writ of error is pending, inless the writ was sued
out within -ten days after judgment and in conformity with the
provisions of the " act; and in Railroad Co. v. Harris, 7 Wall.
575, that the effebt of the writ as a supersedeas "depends upon
compliance with the conditions imposed by the act," and that
"we cannot dispense with that compliance in respect to lodging
a copy for the adverse.party."
The stay of proceedings followed as a matter of right from
the issue and service of the writ. of error,'in the manner and
within the time prescribed by the act. No special directions
as to the security were necessary, because, under the law as it
originally stood, security must -be given in all cases when the
writ was issued, that the plaintiff in error would prosecute his
writ to effect, and answer all damages and costs if he failed to
make his plea good. It soon. became manifest, however, that,
in cases where there was to be no supersedeas, secuirity to this
extent was unnecessary; and, consequently, in 1794, it was
enacted (1_ Stat. 404) "that the security to be required and
taken oil the signing of a citation on "any krit of error, which
shall not be a supersideas and sta5 execution, shall be only to
such an amount as, in the opinion of the justice or judge taking
the same, shall be sufficient to- answer all such costs as, upon
an affirmance of -the judgment or decree, may be adjudged or
decreed to the respondeht. in error," After this- the form of
the security became material, and the supersedeas was made to
depend upon the condition of the bond executed at the time of
the signing of the citation, as well as upon the prompt issue
and service of the writ. -Rbber,Oo. v. Goodyear, 6 Wall. 156;
Slaughter-house Cases; -10 Wail. 289, 291.
In 1803 appeals were granted in. cases of equity anid of
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and made "subject tb the
same rules, regulations, and restrictions as are prescribd in-law
in case 6f writs.of error." 2"Stat. 244i sect. 2. It has accordingly
been held that an appeal to operate -as a sup rsede'as must be
perfected and the security given within ten, days after' the

rendition of the decree.

Adams v: Law, 16 How. 148 ;

-Hudg--

Oct. 1876.]

KITCHEN V. RANDOLPH.

kins v. Kemp, 18 id. 535; .French v. Shoemaker, 12 Wall.
100; Bigler v. Walker, id. 149. The allowance of the appeal
is the equivalent of, the writ of error.
It thus appears that, under the statutes which regulated the
early practice, a supersedeas could not be obtained except by
prompt hction and strict compliance with all the requirements
of the law. Parties'were, however, not unfrequently put to
serious inconvenience by so stringent a rule; and, to avoid this,
it was enacted in 1872 (17 Stat. 198, sect. 11) " that any party or
person desiring to have any judgment, decree, or order of any
district or circuit court reviewed on writ of 'error or appeal, and
to stay proceedings thereon during the pendency of such writ
of error or appeal, may give the security required by 'law
therefor within sixty days after the rendition of such judgment,
decree, or order, or afterward, with the permission of a justice
or judge of the appellate court." In Telegraph Company v.
.Eyser, 19 Wall. 419, we held, in reference to this statute, that
where an appeal was taken and the requisite security given
after the expiration of ten days, but within sixty, a supersedeas
followed as a matter of right. In the course of the opinion in
that case it was said: "It is expressly declared that the super8edeas bond may be executed within sixty days after "the
rendition of the judgment, and later, with the permission of
the designated judge. It is not said when the writ of error
shall be served. Its issuance must, of course, precede the execution of the bond; and, as the judge who signs the citation is
still required to take the bond, we think it is sufficiently implied
that it may be served at any time before, or simultaneously
with, the filing of the bond. Indeed, the giving of the bond
alone is made the condition of the stay. The section is silent
as to the writ. . . The execution, approval, and filing of the
bond are substantial. The filing of the writ is matter of form."
In Board of Commissioners v. Gorman, 19 Wall. 661, decided
at the same term, we further held, that execution might issue
after the expiration of ten days, if a supersedeas had not been
obtained; but, if one should issue, and a supersedeasbe thereafter
perfected, that would only operate to stay further proceedings
under the execution, and could not interfere with what had
already been done.

KITCHEN V. RANDOIPH.

[Sup. Ct.

In this condition of the law the Revised Statutes were
adopted, and sect. 1007 is as-follows:
"In any case where a writ of elTor may be a supersedeas,the
defendant may obtain such supersedeasby serving the writ of error,
by lodging a copy thereof for the adverse party in the clerk's office
where the record remains, within sixty days, Sundays exclusive,
after the rendering of the judgment complained of, and giving the
security required by law on the issuing of the citation. But if he
desires to stay process on the judgment, he may, having served his
writ of error as aforesaid, give the security required by law within
sixty days after the rendition of such judgment, or afterward, with
the permission of a justice or judge of the appellate court. .And
in such cases where a writ of error may be a supersed as, execution
shall not issue until the expiration of the said term of sixty days."
At the next session of Congress, an amendment to this
section was passed, liniiiting the time for withholding execution
to ten days. 18 Stat. 318. By sect. 1012, Rev. Stat., that
part of the act of 1803 (2 Stat. 244) which placed appeals
on the same footing as writs of error was re-enacted, and, by
sect. 1000, provision was made for security for costs only in
cases where no supersedeas was desired, thus reproducing the
old law on that subject.
It is evident that Congress intended in this revision to change
to some extent the lawof 1872. The fair inference from the
opinion in Telegiraph Company-i, -Eyser, is, that as that law
"was silent as to the writ," and "it was not said when it must
be served," a supersedeas could be obtained by the execution,
approval, and filing of the necessary security, even though the
writ of error should not be served or the appeal taken until
after the expiration of sixty days. In this way the old rule
requiring promptness of action to obtain a stay of proceedings
was substantially abandoned. A justice or judge could, in
his discretion, grant the stay at any time, if the writ should
be issued and served within the two years allowed for that
purpose.
The revised section is not "silent as to the writ," and it is
"said when it must be served." If a supersedeas is asked for
when the writ is obtained, the writ must be sued out and served
within the sixty days, and the requisite bond executed when the

Oct. 18-76.]

KITCREN V. RANDOLPH.

citation is signed. The policy of the old law is thus restored,
the only mnodification being in the extension of time allowed for
action. Sixty days are given instead of ten.
Had the section stopped here, a plaintiff in error or appellant
would have been compelled to elect, when he sued out his writ
of error, br took his appeal, whether he would have a supersedea8
or not; because it is made -one of the conditions of the stay of
proceedings that the requisite security shall be given upon the
issuing of the citation. Having once made his election, he would
be concluded by what he had done. But Congress, foreseeing
undoubtedly that cases might arise in which serious loss-would
result from such a rule, went further, and, in a subsequent part
of the section, provided, that if a writ of error had been served, as
required in the first paragraph, a stay might be had as a matter
of right by giving the required. security within sixty days, and
afterwards, as a matter of favor, if permission could be obtained
from the designated justice or judge. Thus prompt action in
respect to the writ was required, and indulgence granted only
as to the security.
It is contended, however, that the words "having served his
writ of error as aforesaid," as used in this part of the section,
have reference to the manner of service alone; that is to say, by
lodging a copy thereof for the adverse party in the clerk's office,
where the record remains, and not to the time, sixty days. But
time is one of the necessary ingredients in the prescribed service
to secure a supersedeas under the provisions of the first part of
the section. It cannot be dispensed with there any more than
it could have been under the act of 1789; and under that act,
as has been seen, it was essential. In fact, it was the one thing
upon which, more than all others, the relief sought for depended.
Service "as aforesaid" must, therefore, mean" such a service as
would have perfected the stay, if the proper security had been
given. Relief is extended only in respect to the security.
What afterwards occurred is equally indicative of the intention
of Congress. As the section originally sto6d, no execution
-could issue, when the writ of error might be a supersedeas
until the expiration of sixty days, the time allowed for perfecting a supersedeas without leave. If the writ had been issued
and served without the security required for a supersedeas,

92

DRESSER V. MISSOURI, ETC. R.R. CONST. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

execution must still be withheld until the time had elapsed
within which the further security might be given as a matter
of right. This changed the law from what we held it to be in
Commissioners v. Gorman, and at once, upon the discovery of
the effect of what had been done, the amendment was adopted
limiting the time" to ten days, as it originally stood. Nothing
was done, however, towards adapting the section as revised to
the liberal construction of the act of 1872, indicated in Telegraph
Company v. _EBser.
We are, therefore, of the opinion, that, under the law as it
now stands, the service of a writ of error, or the perfectioi of
an appeal within sixty days, Sundays exclusive, after the rendering of the judgment or the passing of the decree complained
of, is an indispensable prerequisite to a supersedeas, and that
it is not within the power of a justice or judge of the appellate
court ti grant a stay of process on the judgment or decree, if
this has not been done.
The appeal was taken in this case after the expiration of
sixty days, and the motion to vacate the supersedeas must for
that reason be granted.
Motion granted.

D.RESSER v. IVISSOURI AND IOWA RAILWAY CONSTRUCTION
CoMPANY.
A bona fide holder of negotiable paper, purchased before its maturity upon an
unexecuted contract, on which part payment only had been made when he
received notice of fraud, and a prohibition to pay, is protected only to the
amount paid before the receipt of such notice.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.
Submitted on printed arguments by Hr. James Grant for the
plaintiff in error, and by 1r. George G. TFright, contra.
MRt. JUSTICE HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.

This action is brought upon three several promissory notes
made by the Missouri and Iowa Railway Construction Company,
dated Nov. 1,1872, payable at two, three, and four months, to the
order of William Irwin, for the aggregate amount of $10,000.

