TERRY V. HATCH.

[Sup. Ct.

TERRY v. HATCE.
1. Under sect. 692 of the Revised Statutes, an appeal could not be had to this
court from the final decree of a Circuit Court, unless the matter in dispute,
exclusive of costs, exceeded the sum or value of $2,000.
2. In a suit by its creditors against an insolvent bank, which had made an assignment for their benefit, claims amounting to $440,000, including a decree in
favor of A. for .23,297, and judgments in favor of B. for $88,000, were proved
and allowed. There was realized under tile assignment .$30,000, tile pro rata
distribution of which was decreed by the court. A. filed an exception to
the allowance of B.'s claim, which was overruled; whereupon he, by leave
of the court, took a separate appeal, "without joining any party to the record
with him as appellant," or any party as defendant except B. Ield,that tle
amount in dispute here is the interest of A. in that portion of tie $30,000
payable by the decree to B., which the former would have received had his
exception been sustained, and the amount decreed"the latter been distributed
pro rata among all the creditors. As that interest 'is less than $2,000, this
court has no jurisdiction.

from the Circuit Court of the' United States for the
So. thern District of Georgia.
Mr. Harvey Terry for, the appellant.
Mr. A. T. Akerman, contra..
APPEAL

MR.- CIIEF JUSTICE" WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The Baiik of Commerce, located at Savannah, Ga., being
insolvent and unable t- proceed with its bitsiness, madel an-

assignment of its property to Sohn C. Ferrill for the benefit of
its.creditors;chf whoni the app~llant was one. He commenced
this suit "-n" behalf of hinmself and all ouner parties in like.
condition who will concur and unite -and cQntribute to the
expenses,"' to obtain a decree in his own favor against the bank
for the amount of his debt; an accont by the assignee; the

conv;ersion of the assigned property into money under the
authority and direction of the court, and the distribution of
the proceeds-among the creditors ae.cording to the assignment.
In

the progress of the cause a decree was -rendered against the

bank and in f&vor of Terry for $23,297.

Afterwaids decrees

were entered requiring all persons interested in.the distribution

of the asets to make themselves- parxties,- and-referring the cause.
to a master t6 take testimony and report the aaiounts due to the

Oct. 1876.]

TERRY v.

HATCH.

several claimants, the nature of their respective claims, and the
order in which they were entitled to payment out of the fund
in court.
The master reported, allowing claims amounting in the aggregate to about $425,000, all of which were .entitled to participate
pro rata in the distribution. Among the claims allowed were
the decree in favor of Terry, $23,297, and several judgments in
favor of George W. Hatch, amounting in all to $75,000.
Terry excepted to the report, because, 1. An account of $25 presented by him, and on which he
claimed priority of payment over the other creditors, had been
disallowed; and, 2. The claim in favor of Hatch had been allowed.
Both these exceptions were overruled. The amount allowed
to Hatch was increased to $88,000, or thereabouts; the report
in all "6ther respects confirmed, and an order entered for the
payment of the fund in court to the several creditors, in accordance therewith.
The amount of the fund in court for distribution is stated
to have been about $30,000, and the total amount of the
allowed claims not far from $440,000; so that Hatch would
receive for his dividend, under the decree as .entered, about
$6,000.
Terry took this appeal, which is separate, "without joining
any other party to the record with him as appellant," or any
party as defendant except Hatch. Such was the order. of the
Circuit Court when allowing the appeal upon his petition.
Hatch now moves to dismiss, for the reason that the "matter
in dispute" is not sufficient in amount or value to give this
court jurisdiction.
Sect. 692, Rev. Stat., in force when this appeal was taken,
permitted appeals to this court "from- all final 'decrees of
any circuit court, or of any district court acting as a circuit
court, in cases of equity, and of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, where the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, exceeds
the sum or value of $2,000."
The matter in .dispute between the parties who are here is
that part of the 'money payable to Hatch under the decree
which would have gone to Terry if his exceptions had-been

46

BEAVER V. TAYLOR ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

sustained. Terry presented an account for $25, on which he
claimed priority of payment; but, upon its disallowance, Hatch
became entitled to no more than his share upon a pro rata
distribution of that amount to all the creditors. So, too,
Hatch, upon the allowance of his claim, became entitled undei
the decree t6 a dividend of about $6,000; but, if it had been
disallowed, Terry would have received only his share of the
amount of the dividend upon a like pro rata distribution. If
Terry succeeds in this appeal, he can only recover from Hatch
what would have been distributed lo him in the court below, if
his exceptions had been there sustained. The aggregate of the
claims allowed, deducting that of Hatch, is about $350,000;
and of this amount Terry has but. $23,297. Upon a distribution of tha amount decreed to Hatch among the other creditors,
the dividend would be less than two per cent upon the ambunt
of the several claims, or but little more than $500 to Terry.
It is clear, therefore, that the amount ih dispute is less than
Appeal dismissed.
$2,000.

BEAvnER v. TAyLoR

ET AL.

1. If one of a series of propositions presented to a court as one request for a
charge to the jury is unsound, an exception to a refusal to charge the entire
series cannot be maintained.
2. An exception to the entire charge of the court, or, in gross, to a series of propositions therein contained, cannot be sustained, if any portion thus excepted
to is sound.
8. An exception to such portions of a charge as are variant from the requests
made by a party not pointing out the variances, cannot be sustained.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
This was ejectment brought by plaintiff in error, to recover
an undivided sixth part of the north,%west quarter of section
thirty-six, the north-east fractional quarter of section twenty:
seven, the south fractional half of section twenty-six, and the
north-east fractional quarter of section thirty-five, in township
seventeen south, range one west, situated in the county of
Alexander and State of fllinois, at or near the junction of thq.

