Oct. 1876.]

HURST V. WESTERN & ATLANTIC

R.R. Co.

71

Under these circumstances, it was error to charge the jury, that,
if they found any damages, they must find the amount of the
royalty for each pan so used, as that was instructing the jury in
effect that they must find $100 for each pan, which is plainly
more than the actual damages proved'by the evidence. Actual
damage is the statute rule; and, whenever the royalty plainly
exceeds the rule prescribed by the Patent Act, the finding
should be reduced to the statute rule.
J"udgment reversed, and cause remandedwitk directions to issue
a venire de novo.

HURST V. WESTERN AND ATLA:NTIC RAILROAD COMPANY.
Under the act of March 2, 1867 (14 Stat. 558), a suit pending in a State court,
between a citizen of the State in which the suit was brought and a citizen
of another State, could not, on the application of the former, be removed to
a circuit court of the United States.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Tennessee.
Hurst, the plaintiff in error, a citizen of Tennessee, sued the
Wesern "and Atlantic Railroad Company, a corporation of
Georgia, in the law court of Chattanooga, Tenn., at its October Term, 1866. The cause was tried at the February Term,
1868, of that court, and resulted in a judgment in favor of
Hurst. The Supreme Court of the State, at its October Term,
1869, reversed this judgment, and sent the cause back for a new
trial. At the June Term, 1870, of the law court, the July
Term, 1871, and the March. Term, 1872, trials were had, in
which the juries disagreed. At the July Term, 1872, after
trial, another judgment was rendered in favor of Hurst. This
judgment, too, the Supreme Court reversed, at its September
Term, 1872, and the cause was again remanded for trial.
Nov. 12, 1873, Hurst applied to the law court for a removal
of the cause to the Circuit Court of the United States for
that district, under the act of March 2, 1867. 14 Stat. 558.
Upon-this application the cause was removed; but the Circuit
Court, when it came there, refused to take jurisdiction, and
remanded it to the State court.
This action of the Circuit Court is assigned here for error.

CR MEUNG CANAL BANK V. Lowny.

[
[Sup.
Ct.

ir. Henry Cooper for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. John Baxter, contra.
i. CHIEF JuS~ioE WAITE delivered the opinion of the.
court.
The act of March 2, 1867, provided, in substance, that
where a suit was pending in a State court, between a citizen
of the State in which the suit was brough-t and a citizen of
another State, and the matter in dispute' exceeded the siim
of $500, such citizen of another State, whether plaintiff or
defendant, if he made and filed in such State court an affidavit, stating "that he has reason to and does believe that, from
prejudice or local influence, he will not be able to obtain justice in such State court," might have the cause removed to the
Circuit Court of the United States. Here the suit was brought
in a court of the State of Tennessee, by a citizen of that State,
against a citizen of the State of Georgia. Under the statute,
the party who was a citizen of Tennessee could not have- the
cause removed to the Circuit Court, because he was a citizen
of the State in which the suit was brought, and not of " another
State;" but the citizen of Georgia could. In this case, the removal was made upon the application of the party who was a
citizen of Tennessee, and, consequently, the Circuit Court properly refused to entertain jurisdiction.
Judgment affirmed.

CHEMUI G CANAL BAxK v. LowERY.
1. The English rule, that the Statute of Limitations cannot be set up by demurrer in actions at law, does not prevail in the courts of the United States sitting in Wisconsin.
2. The distinction between actions at law and suits in equity has been abolished
by the code of that State; and the objection that suit was not brought within
the time limited therefor, if the lapse of time appears in the complaiit without any statement to rebut its effect, may be made by way of demurrer, if.
the point is thereby specially taken. If the plaintiff relies on a subsequent
promise, or on a paynent to revive the cause of action, he must set it up in
his original complaint, or ask leave to amend.
3. A provision to the effect, thlt, when the defendant is out' of the State, the
Statute of Limitations shall not run against the plaintiff, if the latter resides
in the State, but shall if he resides out of the State, is not repugnant to the
second section of the fourth article of the Constitution of the United States,
which declares that " the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all-the
privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States."

