Oct. 1876.]

YZNAGA DEL VALLE V. HARRISON ET AL.

233

Without deciding whether we would follow those decisions
in a similar case arising in this District, it is sufficient to say,
that there is an obvious distinction between the liability of
stockholders to the amount of their stock, which is a part of
the obligation assumed when the stock is taken and which is an
exact sum, ascertainable by the number of shares owned by the
shareholder, and. the case of the managing trustees, jointly liable
for a violation of their trust to all the creditors of the corporation
who may be injured thereby.
In the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, under the
identical form of words which we are construing in the present
case, it has been repeatedly decided that the only remedy is a
suit in equity, in which all the creditors are parties; and that
even in equity one creditor cannot sue alone, but must either
join the other creditors, or bring his suit on behalf of himself
and all the others. And while the case is considered in reference
to remedies afforded by the statute, it is placed on the solid
ground, that the fund, by the statute, consists of the excess of
all debts over the capital, and that there are various parties
having several and unequal claims against the fund, which
exceed it in amount. A demurrer to the action at law was
sustained on these grounds in the lerchants' Bank of Newburyport v. Stevenson and Others, 10 Gray, 232. See also Crease v.
Babcock, 19 Met. 501; 5 Allen, 398. The same principle is
held by-this court in the recent case of Pollard v. Bailey,
20 Wall. 520, which, we think, disposes of the one before us.
Judgment affirmed.

YZNAGA DEL VALLE v. HA-RisoN ET AL.
As the Code of Practice of Louisiana provides that all definitive or final judgments must be signed by the judge rendering them, this court, under sect. 691
of the Revised Statutes, as-amended by the act of Feb. 16, 1876 (18 Stat. 816),
cannot, where the matter in dispute does not exceed the sum or value of $5,000,
excluhive of costs, review the judgment of a circuit court of the United States
sitting in that State, signed subsequently to May 1, 1875.

MOTION to' dismiss-a writ 6f error to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of L6uisiana.

234

YZNAGA DEL VALLE V. HARRISON ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

31r. Edward Janin for the defendants in error, in support of
the motion.
fr. Thomas J Durant and 1i1r. C. W ifornor for the plaintiff in error, in opposition thereto.
MR. CHIEF JusTicE NVAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The judgment in this case is for less than $5,000, and was
given April 9, 1875. A motion for new trial, entered and filed
April 13, was overruled, after argument, May 8. The judgment
as given was signed by the judge May 10, 1875.
A motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction is now made,
because the matter in dispute is less than $5,000. This writ
of error was issued under sect. 691 of the Revised Statutes, as
amended by the act of Feb. 16, 1875 (18 Stat. 316), which
provides for the re-examination in this court of all final judgments of the circuit courts rendered pre'viofts to May 1, 1875,
where the matter in dispute exceeds the sum or value of $2,000,
and of such as were rendered after that date where it exceeds
,5,000. The only question presented by this motion is whether
the judgment of the Circuit Court was "rendered" before or
after May 1, 1875. If before, we have jurisdiction; if after,
we have not.
By the Code of Practice of Louisiana, "the judg must sign
all definitive or final judgments rendered by him; but he shall
not do so until three judicial days have elapsed, to be computed
from the day when such judgments were given." Art. 545,
Code 1870 ; art. 546 of former Code. This, by the operation
of sect. 914 of the Revised Statutes (which is a reproduction of
sect. 6 of "An Act to further the administration of justice,"
passed June 1, 1872, 17 Stat. 197), is now by law a rule of
practice for the courts.of the United States within that State;
and it seems, that, as early as 1828, the District Court of the
United States in Louisiana had adopted it as a rule of that
court. Such being the case, this court held, in Life and Fire
Insurance Company of New York v. Wilson's ffeirs, 8"Pet. 303,
decided in 1834, that "the judgment, without the signature of
the judge, cannot be enforced. It is not a final judgment on
which a writ of error may issue for its reversal. Without the

Oct. 1876.]

SHAW V. UNITED STATES.

action of the judge, the plaintiffs can take no step. . . . They
can neither issue execution on the judgment, nor reverse the
proceedings by writ of error." This is in accordance with the
settled practice in Louisiana, and is decisive of this case. Stark
v. Burke, 9 La. Ann. 345 ; Sprigg v. Wells, 5 Mart. N. s. 105 ;
Ex parte Nicholass, 4 Rob. 53; M ech. & Tr. Bank IV. 0. v.
Walter, 7 id. 451; Succession of Arbridge, 1 La. Ann. 207;
Me Willie v. Perkins, 20 id. 169. As only final judgments
can be re-examined here upon writs of error, the judgment
to be "rendered," which the statute refers to, must be the
final judgment. That judgment is not rendered in Louisiana
until it is signed by the judge. In other States, the rule in this
respect may be different; and in Silsby v. Foote, 20 How. 295,
we said, "The time to be taken as when the judgment or decree
may be said to be rendered or passed may admit of some latitude, and may depend somewhat upon the usage and practice
of the particular court." But this being a judgment in Louisiana, and not having been signed until after May 1, was not
rendered, according to the practice in that State, before that
date; and consequently the writ must be dismissed for want of
jurisdiction.

SHAW v. UNITED STATES.
Where a steamer, lying at the time at the wharf at St. Louis, was taken into the
service of the United States by a quartermaster of the United States, for a
trip to different points on the Mississippi River, the compensation for the service required being stated at the time to the captain, and no objection being
made to the service or compensation, and the service was rendered, the possession, command, and management of the steamer being retained by its owner, Held, that the United States were charterers of the steamer upon a contract
of affreightment, and that they were not liable, under such a contract, to the
owner for the value of the steamer, though she was destroyed by fire whilst
returning from the trip, without his fault.

from the Court of Claims.
The court below found the facts as follows: That on the seventeenth day of September, 1863, the steamboat "Robert Campbell, Jr.," of which the claimant was and
continued to be the sole owner, when lying at the wharf in thd
APPEAL

