LOVEJOY v.

SPAFFORD ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

LovE Joy v. SFAFFORD ET AL.
1. A., having had no previous dealings with a firm, but having heard of its
existence, and who conlposed it, sold goods to one of the partners, and
received in payment thekefor a draft by~bim drawn upon the firm, and
accepted in its name. At the time of the transaction the firm was, in fact,
dissolved; but A. had no notice thereof. Held, that, in order to protect a
ietired partner against such acceptance of the draft at the suit of A., evidence, tending to show a public and notorious disavowal of the continuance
of the partnership, is admissible.
2. It is not an absolute, inflexible rule, that there must be a publicatidn in a news- paper to protect a retiring partner.
Any means of fairly publishing the fact
of such dissolution as widely as- possible, in order to put the public on its
guard, - as, by advertisement, public notice in the manner usual in tle community, the withdrawal of the exterior indications of the partnership, - are
proper to be considered on the question of notice.
ERR R to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of _Minnesota.
" The testimony, as exhibited by the bill of exceptions, is set
forth in the opinioti of the court.
The court below charged the jury as follows :

"The facts in this case are, in the main, undisputed. The plaintiffs seek to hold the defendant, Lovejoy, for the payment of two
acceptances of J. B. Shaw & Co. To establish his liability, the
plaintiffs must show that Lovejoy was a member of the firm of
J. B. Shaw & Co., and was a joint promisor, or that, having ceased
to be a member of the firm, he-still remained liable for obligations
made in the name of the firm, by reason of failure to give proper
notice of the dissolution of the firm to the public.
-lad he been a
member of the firm when the acceptances were given, there would
be no doubt of his liability. It is material for you to decide whether
credit, on the'sale of the lumber at Reed's, was given to J. B. Shaw
alone, or to'J. B. Shaw & Co. If to Shaw alone, then Lovejoy
would not be bound. From 1868 to May 12, 1870, Lovejoy was a
member of the firm of J. B. Shaw & Co. This is not disputed: It
also appears that, on Mlay 12, 1870, the firm was dissolved. Plaintiffs claim, notwithstanding the dissolution, Lovejoy is liable, because the lumber was sold on the credit of the company, and no
notice given them of any dissolution. If you find that the sale at
Reed's was, in fact, made to the firm, and that the plaintiffs, in
making such sale, gave the credit to the firm of J. B. Shaw & Co.,,

Oct. 1876.]

LovEJoy v.

SPAFFORD ET AL.

and relied on such credit, then Lovejoy cannot escape liability
unless he has given legal notice. Many interesting questions, as to
what is proper notice to persons who have not been dealers with
the firm which has dissolved, have arisen in this case. It is not
necessary for me to go to the extent of those authorities which
hold that, in cases of dissolution, in order to avoid liability on the
part of retiring partners to strangers, that there must be actual
notice, or public notice by advertisement in a newspaper. I do
not say that these are the only kinds of proper notice that might
be given. In this case, there is no evidence of any public notice;
for private communications made to particular persons at the place
where the firm did business, or elsewliere, is not sufficient notice to
bind other persons.
"There are two questions for you to decide:"First, Was there such a firm as J. B. Shaw & Co., and was
Lovejoy a member thereof up to May 12, 1870? This is undisputed.
"Second, Did plaintiffs, or their assignees, as in the case of the
Mead draft, have reasonable knowledge or information that the firm
of J. B. Shaw & Co. still existed at the time the lumber was sold?
Knowledge obtained from public notoriety, and from individuals
who had knowledge thereof, was sufficient to warrant the plaintiffs
in such a belief. If the evidence warrants you in finding that Angell
or TMead had reason to believe that the dissolution had taken place
at the time of the sale, then the plaintiffs cannot recover. Now,
has there been any actual notice or public notice? Without public
notice or actual notice, good faith makes Lovejoy responsible, and
he cannot escape if the credit was given to the firm. Angell and
Mead were in possession of the ploperty- As to the arrangement
with other parties, as testified to, it is not material in this case. One
partner can bind the firm in a:transaction for; the benefit of the firm,
and the other partners would be rspbosibl. ,for his acts. In this
case, J. B. Shaw accepted these.drafts in tae name of J. B. Shaw
& Co.; and if the credit was given to. the 'firrh, and Lovejoy had
omitted to do any thing to relieve himself from liability, then he is
still responsible."
To the following portions of this charge the defendant duly
excepted, and his exception was noted, viz.: "If you find that the sale at Reed's was, in fact, made to the
firm, and that the plaintiffs, in making such sale, gave credit to
the firm of J. B. Shaw & Co., and relied on such credit, then Love-

LovFjoY

v. SPAFFORD ET AL.

[Sup. Ot.

joy cannot escape liability, unless he has given legal notice of the
dissolution of the firm.
"In this case, there is no evidence of any public notice; for private communications made to particular persons at the place where
the firm did business, or elsewhere, is not sufficient notice to bind
other persons.
"Did the plaintiffs, or their assignees, as in the case of the Mead
draft, have reasonable knowledge or information that the firm of
J. B. Shaw & Co. still existed at the time the lumber was sold ?
Knowledge obtained from public notoriety, and from individuals
who had knowledge thereof, was sufficient to warrant the plaintiffs
in such a belief."
The defendant requested the court to charge the jury as
follows -"1. The evidence in this case shows that the firm of J. B. Shaw
& Co. was dissolved, and that the defendant had withdrawn therefrom on the twelfth day of May, 1870, more than four months before
the lumber was purchased from plaintiffs, or their assignees, and
the bills of exchange in suit given and accepted.
"2. That, at the time said bills of exchange were given and
accepted, said J. B. Shaw had no authority to accept the same in
the name of the previous firm so as to bind the defendant by such
acceptance.
"3. The evidence shows that none of the persons selling lumber,
for which these acceptances were given, had had any dealing with
J.B. Shaw & Co., during its existence, and that they were not, at
the time said firm was dissolved, entitled to any notice of the dissolution.
"4. When J. B. Shaw applied to purchase the lumber, and represented that he had authority, as partner, to bind the defendant,
those having the lumber to sell were bound to inquire as to the fact,
whether he had such authority or not in the -absence of previous
dealings. And, if the fact of the dissolution of the firm was so
publicly and generally known that the jury believe that a reasonable inquiry by the persons selling the lumber would have disclosed
the fact of the dissolution, and that they neglected to make any
reasonable inquiry, the defendant is not bound.
"5. If the jury find that the fact of the dissolution of the firm
of J. B. Shaw & Co. was made known to the business men engaged
in the same business as those who sold the lumber to Shaw, in the
town where they resided and did business, and was so communi-

Oct. 1876.]

LoVEJOY

). SPAFFORD ET AL.

cated as to be likely to come to their knowledge, the jury may
infer that fact, if they believe it, from the evidence and circumstances.
"6, That, *s the persons selling the lumber in this case had not
had any dealings with the firm of J. B. Shaw & Co., during its
existence, they were not justified in presuming that defendant was
a member of that firm, on the statement of any one or two persons
who are not shown to have ever had any dealing with that firm
during its existence.
"7. That, as to persons who had never dealt with the firm of
J. B. Shaw & Co., the defendant, on the dissolution of that firm,
was not bound to give notice directly of such dissolution. Neither
was it absolutely necessary that notice of the dissolution should
have been published in any newspaper, in order to protect Lovejoy
against persons who had never dealt with the firm. The jury are
at liberty to consider, from the generality and extent to which
knowledge of the fact of the dissolution had been spread, especially
in the vicinity where the plaintiffs an . their assignees lived and did
business, and from the lapse of time occurring after the dissolution,
whether notice of the dissolution had not reached the plaintiffs,
or their assignees, or would not have been ascertained upon such
inquiry as they were reasonably bound to make.
"8. If the jury believe that the purchase of lumber, by Shaw,
was made for his own benefit alone, and this was known to the
sellers, or there were circumstances connected with the sale from
which they ought to have known this, the defendant is not bound.
"9. That the fact, that Shaw drew the acceptances in his own
name, as drawer, is a circumstance which tended to show that the
purchase was for his individual benefit, and that the draft, on the
face of it, was for his own funds in the hands of the drawee."
In reference to such requests of the defendant, the court
charged as asked in the first and the second, with the qualification that it was true if he had given legal notice of the dissolution of the firm, and eighth requests; but as to all the other
requests and every of them the court said, "I have already
stated to you all the law which I deem applicable to this case,
and therefore decline to charge as requested by the defendant,"
and declined to give any of said requests except the first and
second as above, and eighth; and the defendant duly excepted,
and his exception was noted, to the refusal of the court to give
each of the requests so refused severally.
VOL. i1:
28

LOVEJOY V. SPAFFORD ET AL.

[Sup. Or.

The jury retired to consider their verdict, and afterwards
came into court for further instructions, in response to which
the court said, "The first proposition which I charged you was,
that there is no dispute that the partnership existed in 1868. and
1869, and that it was in fact dissolved :May 12, 1870. So far
as Lovejoy is con.cerned, unless he had done something to bring
public or actual notice of the dissolution to these plaintiffs or
their assignors, or had given public notice of the dissolution, he
would continife liable, and cannot escape, if you are satisfied
credit was given to the firm." To all that portion of the charge
which follows after the words and figures "MMay 12, 1870," the
defendant duly excepted, and his'exceptioxi was noted.The jury returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiffs; judgment was rendered thereon. The defendant then sued out
this writ of error.
Argued by Mr. TRWllam Loekren for the plaintiff in error.
Submitted on printed arguments by Mr. W. 0. Bartlett for the
defendants in error.
M . JUSTICE HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The action was. bythe holder of two drafts dated Sept. 27,
1870, drawn by. J. B. Shaw upon J. B. Shaw & Co., and accepted in the name of J. B. Sha3,w & Co. The object of the
action was to charge Lovejoy as a partner. The firm of J. B.
Shaw & Co. was formed on the fifteenth day of April, 1868; transacted a lumber business at Davenport, Iowa; and continued
until the twelfth day of May, 1870, when it was dissolved by
an instrument in writing. In fact, Lovejoy was not a member
of the firm of J. B. Shaw & Co., nor was there in existence
such a firm when the drafts were accepted in its name. The
acceptance in the firm name was a fraud on the part of Shaiv.
The questions arising upon the bill of exceptions gi-ow out of
the sufficiency of the notice of the dissolution of the firm given
by the retiring member.
Formal notice was given to all those who had previously
dealt with the firm. It does not appear whether there had
been any change of signs, nor whether the firm had any external sign.
No evidence was given that notice of the dissolution was pub-

Oct. 1876.]

LOvEJOY v. SPAFFORD ET AL.

lished in any newspaper; and it was proved that two daily
papers were published in Davenport at the time of the dissolution. After that time the business was carried on in the name
of J. B. Shaw alone.
Prior to the present transaction, the plaintiffs, in discounting
its paper, had heard of the firm, and who were its members.
They testified that they had no information of the dissolution
till some time after its occurrence.
The drafts in suit were given for lumber sold by the plaintiffs and by one Mead, were drawn by Shaw, and accepted by him
in the name of the firm at Read's Landing, where the lumber
was sold.
There was no evidence that the fixm had ever had any other
transaction at Eau Claire or Read's Landing.
No evidence was given of the relative position of the places
in question; but from the maps and gazetteers we learn that
Eau Claire is in the interior of the State of Wisconsin, and
distant several hundred miles from Davenport, in the State of
Iowa. Read's Landing is not far from Eau Claire.
The case was tried by the Circuit Court, upon the theory,
that to discharge a member of a firm from the claim of one
who had had no dealing with it prior to its dissolution, but who
knew of its existence and who were its members, it was necessary that the latter should have received actual notice of the
dissolution, or that notice should have been published in a
newspaper at the place of business. This doctrine was not
announced in terms, but such was the result of the trial.
Either of these notices was held to be sufficient; but it was held
that, without one of them, the retiring member could not protect himself. In terms, the holding of the judge was, that
there must be either actual notice or public notice; and it will
be seen from the offers and exclusions presently to be stated,
that this public notice could mean only a newspaper publication.
Thus the witness Barnard, after testifying that he had been
in business at Davenport prior to May 12, 1870, until the time
of the trial; that he had business relations with all the lumber
dealers at -that place, and knew them all; and that he knew of
the' dissolution when it occurred,- was then asked whether or

LovujoY v. SPAFFORD ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

not it was generally known at Davenport at the time the firm
was lissolved that such dissolution had taken place.
To which the plaintiffs objected, on the ground that the same
was incompetent and immaterial;, which objection was sustained, and the defendant Lovejoy excepted, and his exception
was noted.
Defendants' counsel then asked the witness: "State whether
or not it was generally known at this time along the river that
this dissolutioil had taken place."
To which plaintiffs made the same objections as before; and
the objection'was sustained, and an exception taken by defendant Lovejoy, and noted.
Defendants' counsel then asked the witness: "Did you at or
near the time bf the dissolution communicate the fact that it
had occurred to any persons other than the plaintiffs; and, if
so, to whom, aftd in what manner? "
To which th'e plaintiffs made the same objection as before;
which objection was sustained, and an exception was taken and
noted for the defendant Lovejoy.
Counsel for defendant Lovejoy stated, in connection with the
questions to the witness Barnard, that he did not expect to
prove actual notice of the dissolution to the plaintiffs, or to the
persons who sold the lumber.
John C. Spetzler was sworn as a witness in behalf of the defendant, and testified that in May, 1870, he was in the employment of J. B. Shaw & Co., in their yard at Davenport, as
salesman; that the business was 'conducted after the dissolution by Shaw, in the name of J. B. Shaw.
The defendant proposed to prove by the witness that the
dissolution, immediately upon its occurrence, was a matter of
general fepute and knowledge in the city of Davenport, where
the firm did business, and that all lumber dealers in Davenport,
were informed of it.
To which plaintiff objected, on the grounds that the same
was" incompetent and immaterial; which objection was sustained. To which the defendant Lovejoy excepted, and his
exception was noted.
Sumner-W. Farnham, not a partner, was sworn on behalf of
the defendant, and testified, that, in September, 1870, and

Oct. 1876.]

LovEjoY v.

SPAFFORD ET AL.

before the transaction in question, he visited Eau Claire in
company with J. B. Shaw; was there two or three days, and
called on the lumber dealers of that place. The witness was
then asked whether on that occasion he or Shaw gave any
notice to the lumber dealers at Ean Claire of the dissolution of
the firm of J. B. Shaw & Co. If so, to whom, and in what
manner ?
To which the plaintiffs objected, on the grounds that the
same was incompetent and immaterial, unless the defendant
proposed to prove actual notice to plaintiffs, or to those who
sold'the lumber, or notice by publication in a newspaper. The
objection was sustained by the court; and the defendant Lovejoy excepted, and his exception was noted.
The defendant then offered to prove by this witness, that,
while he and Shaw were at Eau Claire on this Occasion, and
before the sale of the rafts in question, the said Shaw,'in the
presence of the witness, notified all, or nearly all, of the lumber
dealers in Eau Claire, where plaintiffs then lived and did business, and in the vicinity, that the firm of J. B. Shaw & Co. had
dissolved, and that Farnham & Co. had sold out to Shaw.
To which the -plaintiffs objected, on the grounds that the
same was immaterial and incompetent, unless the defendant
proposes to show actual notice to the plaintiffs, or to those who
sold the lumber; which objection was sustained, and the defendant Lovejoy excepted, and his exception was noted.
In Pratt v. Page, 32 Vt. 11, cited as an important case, it
was held, that, to entitle a plaintiff to recover in a case like the
present, these facts must appear: 1. The claimant must have
known at the time of making his contract that there had been
a partnership. 2. That he did not then know of its dissolution.
8. That he supposed he was entering into a contract with the
company when he made it. In the court below the plaintiff
recovered, on the ground of want of sufficient notide of dissolution; but in the appellate court-that question was not reached.
In City Bank of Brooklyn v. McChesney, 20 N. Y. 240, the
bank having had previous knowledge of the existence of the
firm of Dearborn & Co., of which the defendant, McChesney,
was a member, discounted a note made in the firm name, but
after the partnership was in fact dissolved, without knowledge

LovEJoy v. SPAFFORD ET AL.

[Sup. 0t.

or information 6n the part of the bank; it was held, there
being no publication of dissolution, that the retiring partner
was liable. The court makes no examination"of the law, but
adopts as the basis of its judgment the opinion of Senator Verplanck in Vernon v. Manhattan Company, 22 Wend. 183.
In that case, Senator Verplauck made use of this language:
"Now, following out this principle, how is a person, once
known as a partner, to prevent that inducement to false credit
to his former associates which may arise after the withdrawal
of his funds, from the continued use of the credit which he assisted to obtain? How shall he entitle himself to be exempted
from future -liability on their account? The natural reply is,
He must take all the means in his power to prevent such false
credit being given. It is impossible for him to give direct notice
'of his withdrawal to every man who may have seen the name
of his former firm, or have accidentally received its check or
note. No man is held to impossibilities. But he does all he
can do in such a case by withdrawing all the exterior "ndications of partnership, and giving public notice of dissolution in
the manner usual in the community where he resides. He -nay
have obtained credit,for his copartnership by making his own
interest' in it known, through the course of trade. So far as
those are concerned who have had no direct intercourse with
the firm, he does all that is in his power to prevent the continuance and abuse of such credit, if he uses the same sort of
means -to put an end to that credit which may have caused- it.
But there are persons with whom lie or his partners may have
transacted business in the copartnership name and received
credit from. To such persons he has given more than a general
notice of the partnership; for he has directly or indirectly ratified. the acts of the house, and confirmed the credit that may
have been given, either wholly or in part, upon his own account.
He knows, or has it in his power to know, who are the persons
with whom such dealings have been had. Public policy, then,
and natural justice, alike'demand that he should give personal
and special notice: of the withdrawal of his responsibility to
every one who had before received personal and special notice,
either by words-or actr, of his actual responsibility and interest
in the copartnership. Justice requires that the severance of

Oct. 1876.]

LovEJroY v. SPAFFORD ET AL.

the united credit should be made as notorious as was the union
itself. This is accomplished by the rule that persons having
had particular dealings with the firm should have particular
notice of the dissolution or alteration, but that a general notice,
by advertisement or otherwise, should be sufficient fMr those
who know the firm only by general reputation." Both the
Senator and the Chancellor, and the court in McChesney's case,
agree in the opinion that persons who merely take or receive for
discount the paper of a fiim are not to be deemed dealers with
the firm, so as to be entitled to actual notice.
In Bristol v. Sprague, 8 Wend. 423, which was an action
against a retired partner upon a note made after the dissolution,
Nelson, J., says, "It is well settled that one partner may bind
another after dissolution of the firm, if the payee or holder of
the note is not chargeable with notice, express or constructive,
of the dissolution of the partnership (6 Johns. 144; 6 Cowen,
701); and that such notice must be specially communicated to
those who had been customers of the firm, and as to all others
by publication in some newspaper in the county, or in some
other public and notorious manner."
In Ketcham v. Clark, 7 Johns. 147, Van Ness, J. said, "In
England, it seems to be necessary that notice should be given
in a particular newspaper, the 'London Gazette;' but we have no
such usage or rule here. I think, however, we ought at least
to go so far as to say that public notice must be given in a
newspaper of the city or county where the partnership business
was carried on, or in some other way public notice of the
dissolution must be given. The reasonableness of it may,
perhaps, become a question of fact in the particular case."
Mr. Parsons, in his Treatise on Partnership, pp. 412, 413,
gives this rule: "In respect to persons who have had dealings
with the firm, it will be necessary to show either notice to them
of a dissolution or actual knowledge on their part, or at least
adequate means of knowledge of the fact. As to those who
have not been dealers, a retiring partner can exonerate himself
from liability by pullishing notice of the dissolution, or by
showing knowledge of the fact." He adds: "A considerable
lapse of time between the retirement and the contracting the
new debt, would, of course, go far to show that it was not, or

LOVEJOY V. SPAFFORD ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

should not have been, contracted on the credit of the retiring
partners."
Mr. Justice Story, in his work on Partnership, says, the
retiring partner "will not lie liable to mere strangers who have
no knowledge of the persons who compose the firm, for the
future debts and liabilities of the firm, notwithstanding his
omission to give -public notice of his retirement; for it cannot
be truly said, in such cases, that any credit is given to the
retiring partner by such strangers." Sect. 160. In a note he
discusses the -doctrine as laid down by Bell and Gow, and
adheres to the rule as above announced.
Mr. Watson says, that to dealers actual notice must be given;
as to strangers, he says, "An advertisement in the ' London
Gazette' is the most usual and advisable method of giving notice
of a dissolution to the public at large." Watson on Part. 385.
In his Commentaries on the Law of Scotland, Professor Bell,
in speaking of a notice to dealers, says, "An obvious change
of firm is notice; for it'puts the creditor on his guard to inquire,
as at first. So the alteration of checks or notes, or of invoices,
is good notice to creditors using those checks and invoices."
As to notices to strangers, he says; "As it is impossible to give
actual notice 'to all .the world, the law seems to be satisfied
with the ' Gazette's' advertisement, accompanied by a notice in
the newspaper of the place of the company's trade, or such
other fair means taken as may publish as widely as possible the
fact of dissolution." The "Gazette" notice he holds to be one
circumstance to be left to the jury. 2 Bell's Com. 640, 641.
In Wardwell v. Haight, 2 Barb. S. C. 549, 552, Edmonds, J.,
says, "The notice must be a reasonable one. It need not be
in a newspaper. It may be in some other public and notorious
manner. But whether in a newspaper or otherwise, it must,
so far as strangers and persons not dealers with the firm are
concerned, be public and notorious, so as to put the public on
its guard."
In view of these authorities, we are of the opinion that the
rule adopted by the judge on the trial of this cause was too
rigid. We think it is not an absolute, inflexible rule, that there
must be a -publication in a newspaper to protect a retiring
partner. That is one of the circumstances contributing to or

Oct. 1876.]

LovEJoY v. SPAFFORD ET AL.

forming the general notice required. It is an important one;
but it is not the only or an indispensable one. Any means
that,- in the language of Mr. Bell, are fair means to publish as
widely as possible the fact of dissolution; or which, in the
words of Judge Edmonds, are public and notorious to put the
public on its guard; or, in the words of Judge Nelson, notice
in any other public or notorious manner; or, in the language
of Mr. Verplanck, notice by advertisement or otherwise, or by
withdrawing the exterior indications of partnership and giving
public notice in the manner usual in the community where he
resides, - are means and circumstances proper to be considered
on the question of notice.
When, therefore, the defendant proved that actual notice had
been given to all those who had dealt with the firm; that all
subsequent business was carried, on in the name of the remaining partner only, thus making a marked change in the presentation of the firm; when the claimants received and obtained
the draft at a distance of several hundred miles from the place
where the firm did business, and there was no evidence that the
firm had ever before transacted any business in that place, - we
think the evidence offered should not have been excluded.
When the defendant offered to prove that it was generally
known along the Mississippi River that the dissolution had
taken place, and offered evidence showing to whom, to what
extent, and in what manner, notice had been given; that all
the lumber dealers in Davenport were notified and knew of the
dissolution; that at Eau Claire, on the occasion of the transaction in question, and before the drafts were made, notice was
there given to all, or nearly all, of the lumber dealers in that
place that the firm had been dissolved, - we think the evidence
was competent to go before the jury.
The question is not exclusively whether the holders of the
paper did in fact receive information of the dissolution. If
they did, they dertainly cannot recover against a retired partner.
But if they had no actual notice, the question is still one of
duty and diligence on the part of the withdrawing partner. If
he did all that the law requires, he is exempt, although the
notice did not reach the holders. The judge held peremptorily
that there must be either actual notice or public notice, - in

442

LAKE SUPERIOR & MISS. R.R. Co. v. U. S.

[Sup. Ct.

-effect, that it must be through a newspaper, -and
excluded
other evidence tending to show a public and notorious disavowal,
In this we think he erred.
He refused to admit evidence which would have sustained
the fifth request to charge, that, if the notice was so generally
communicated to the business men of Eau Claire as to be likely
to come to the claimants' knowledge, the jury are at liberty to
find such knowledge. In this we think he erred.
Without prescribing the precise rule which should have been
laid down, we are of the opinion that the errors in the rulings
-were of so grave a character that a new trial must be ordered.
New trial ordered.

LAKE SUPgRIOR AND MISSISSIPPI RAILROAD COMPANY V.
UNITED STATES.
ATCHISoN, TOPEKA, AND SANTA Fik RAILROAD CobrAPAxy

v. UNITED STATES.
1. A provision in an act of Congress, granting lands to aid in the construction
of a railroad, that "said railroad shall be, and remain, a public highway
for the use of the government of the United States, free from all toll or
other charge, for the transportation of any property or troops of the
United States," secures to the government the free use of the road, but
does not entitle the government to have troops or property transported
over the road by the railroad company free of charge for transporting the
same.
2. Where, throughout an act of Congress, a railroad is referred to, in its character as a road, as a permanent structure, and designated, and required to be,
a public highway, the term "railroad" cannot, without doing violence to
language, and disregarding the long-established usage of legislative expression, be extended to embrace the rolling-stock or other personal property of
the company.

APPFALS from the Court of Claims.
The first case was argued by Mr. Walter H. Smith for the
appellant, and by Mr.Solicitor-GeneralPhillipsfor the appellee.
The second case was argued by Mr. Thomas H. Talbot and
Mr. B. B. Hoarfor the appellant, and by Mr. Solicitor-General
Phillips for the appellee.

