Oct. 1876.]

BADGER ET AL. V. U. S. EX REL.

BOLLES.

599

We hold the conclusion we have announced to be the law of
this case. With its ethics we have nothing to do. That
subject is not open to our consideration.
Jtidgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DAvIS did not sit in this case.

BADGE

.ET AL. V. UiTITED STATES EX REL. BoLLEs.

A supervisor, town-clerk, or justice of the peace, although his resignation is tendered to and accepted by the proper. authority, continues in office, ind is
not relieved from his duties and responsibilities as a member of the board
of auditors, under the township organization laws of the State of Illinois, until

his successor is appointed, or chosen and qualified.

ERRxOR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
On the seventh day of January, 1875, the relators fired in the
Circuit Court for the Northern District of Illinois their petition for a writ of mandamus agaikist the plaintiffs in error,
alleging that, on May 7, 1874, they recovered, in said court, two
judgments at law against the town of Amboy, a municipal corporation under the township organization laws of the State of
Illinois; that the supervisor, town-clerk, and justices of the peace
of the town constituted a board of auditors, not less than three
being a quorum, whose duty it was to convene on the Tuesday
preceding the second Tuesday of September, and on the Tuesday preceding the first Tuesday in April, in each year, to examine and audit town accounts; that on the 29th of August,
1874, said board of auditors consisted of Chester Badger, the
supervis9r, Charles E. Ives, the town-clerk, Lee Cronkrite, Oliver F. Warrener, Simon Badger, and William B. Andrus, justices
of the peace of said town; that the relators on that dt.y presented to said board a sworn statement that the judgments were
just and unpaid, and should be audited and allowed; they also
at the same time delivered to, and filed with, the clerk of the
said town, a certified copy of said judgments, which the board
neglected and refused to audit, and has refused ever since;
that Chester Badger, Ives, Warrener, and Andrus pretended to

600

BADGER ET AL. V. U. S. EX REL. BOLLES.

[Sup. Ct.

resign their offices, and would not discharge the duties thereof,
but that no other person had been elected or appointed to succeed them; that the other two justices, Simon Badger and Cronkrite, to defeat the collection of said judgments, refused to act
as such auditors, or meet and associate with the collector and
assessor of said town to constitute a board of auditors, nor
would they by appointment fill said alleged vacancies; that the
acts of the parties aforesaid were to hinder and delay the collection of the judgments ; that, by reason of their said acts, relators have been unable to obtain the necessary levy and collection"
of taxes to pay said judgments, and that no provision has been
made for the payment thereof by the said town. Relators pray
for summons to award a mnandamus against said parties, to compel them to audit said judgments.
The respondents filed their answer on the 2d of February,
1875. They admit that on the 29th of August, 1874, Chester
Badger, supervisor, and Warrener and Andrus, justices of the
peace, resigned their respective offices, and that on the 31st of
the same month Ives, town-clerk, also resigned. That, pursuant
to the provisions of sect. 4, art. 10, of the township organization act of Illinois, Revised Laws 1874, p. 1079, said resignations were made to and accepted by Cronkrite and Simon
Badger, justices of the town, who forthwith gave notice to the
town-clerk of the resignation of Chester Badger, Andrus, and"
Warrener, and said clerk made a minute thereof upon the
records of said town before he resigned his office. That the
resignation of Ives, the town-clerk, was likewise duly accepted,
on the said thirty-first day of August, by said justices, and
notice thereof entered upon the town records. Respondents
insist that their resignations were tendered and accepted in
good faith, and that thereby they ceased to be town officers.
They admit that no successors have been elected or appointed,
and that the remaining two justices of the peace will not act
as town auditors, or associate with the collector and assessor
of said town, nor have they filled said vacancies by appointment.
The relatbrs demurred to the answer; which demurrer being
sustained, and the respondents electing to stand by their answer,
the court gave judgment in favor of 'the relators, hnd ordered a

Oct. 1876.]

BADGER ET AL. V. U. S. EX REL. BOLLES.

601

peremptory mandamus to issue as prayed for in their petition.
The respondents thereupon sued out this writ.
Submitted on printed arguments by 31r. Thomas J. Henderson for the plaintiffs in error, and by .Mr. George 0. Ide, contra.
MR. JUSTICE HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
No part of the answer in our judgment requires consideration, except that which raises the point of the legality of the
resignation of the parties named. If they had ceased to be officers of the town when the mandamus was issued, thete may be
difficulty in maintaining the order awarding a peremptory mandamus against them. If they were then such officers, the case"
presents no difficulty.
The alleged resignations of the supervisor and town-clkrk
were accepted by the just'ices of the town ;. but their successors
had not been qualified, nor, indeed, had they been chosen when
the petition was filed. Does a supervisor, -town-clerk, or justice
of the peace of the State of Illinois cease to be an officer when
his resignation is tendered to and accepted by a justice of the
"peace, or does he continue in office until his successor is chosen
and qualified ?
By the common law, as N:eli as by the statutes of the United
States, and the laws -of most of the States, when the term of
office to which one is elected or appointed expires, hispower
to perform its duties-6eases. People v. Tilvan, 8 Abb. Pr'. 859;
30 Barb. 193. This-is the general rule.
The term of office of a district attorney-of the United States
is fixed -by statute at four years.- When this four years comes
round, his-right or -power to perform the duties of the office is
at an end, as completely as if he had never held' the office.
Rev. Stat. seut. 769. A judge of the Court -of Appeals of the
State of New York, or a justice of the Supreme Court, is elected
fGr a term of fourteen years, and takes -his seat on the first
day of January following his election. When the 14th of
January thereafter is reached, he ceases to be a judicial officer,
and can perform no one duty pertaining to the office. Whether
a successor has been elected, or whether he has qualified, does
not -enter into the question. - As to certain town officers, the
rule is different. 1 Rev. Stat. (N. Y.) 340, sect. 30.

602

BADGER ET AL. v. U. S. EX REL.'BOLLES.

[SUp. Ct.

The system of the State of Illinois seems to be organized
upon a different principle. Thus, the Supreme Court consists
of seven judges, who are required to possess certain qualifications of age and of residence, and who are elected for the term
of nine years (Code of Illinois, 1874, pp. 69, 70), at-which time
it is provided that the "term.of office shall expire."
Circuit judges in like manner are elected for a term of six
years. Id. p. 701. County judges and county clerks, probate
judges and State's attorneys, are elected for the term of four
years. Id. pp. 71, 72.
As to all of these officers, including judges, it is provided in
the constitution of Illinois that "they shall hold their offices
until their successors shall be qualified." Id. p. 73, sect. 32.
They may thus hold their offices much longer than the term for
which they are elected.
The provisions as to town officers are of the same character.
It is enacted (art. 7, sect. 61, p. 1075) that, at the town meeting in April of each year, there shall be elected in each town
one supervisor and one town-clerk, who shall hold their offices
for one year, and until their successors are elected and qualified,
and such justices of the peace as are provided by law.
Of justices of the peace, it is enacted that there shall be
elected in each town not less than two nor more than five
(depending upon the population of the town), who shall hold
their offices "for four years, or until their successors are elected
and qualified." p. 637, sect. 1.
The qualifying so often spoken of is defined as to town
officers by art. 9, sect. 85: "Qualifying. Every person elected or appointed to the office
of supervisor, town-clerk, &c., before he enters upon the duties of
his office, and within ten days after he shall be notified of his election or appointment, shall take and subscribe, before some justice
of the peace or town-clerk, the oath -or affirmation of office prescribed by the constitution, which shall, within eight days tliereafter, be filed in the office of the town-clerk."
Thus far it would seem plain that the office of a supervisor
or town-clerk could not be terminated until his. successor subscribed and filed his oath of office, and that when the super-

Oct. 1876.]

BADGER ET AL. V.

U.

S. EX REL.

BOLtES.

603

visor and town-clerk before us supposed that their offices were
at an end by their resignations, they were in error.
There are two other provisions, which, it is supposed, have
some bearing upon the point we are considering. Sect. 97
(p. 1079) provides that whenever a vacancy occurs in a town
office by' death, resignation, removal from the town, or other
cause, the justices may make an appointment which shall continue during the unexpired term, and until others are elected
or appointed in their places. By sect. 100, the justices of the
town may, for sufficient cause shown to them, accept the resignation of any town officer, and notice thereof shall immediately
be given to the town-clerk.
A similar provision as to the elective officers of a higher
grade is found in the statutes. By c. 46, sect. 124 et seq.
(p. 466), it is provided that resignations-of elective offices may
be made to the officer authorized to fill the vacancy or to order
an election to fill it, and the various events which may cause a
vacancy aredefined. Governors, judges, clerks of courts, &c.,
are specifically referred to.
The provision as to these officers and as to the town offices
are parts of the same system. The resignations may be made
to and accepted by the officers named; but, to become perfect,
they depend upon and must be followed by an additional fact; to
wit, the appointment of a successor, and his qualification. When
it is said in the statute that the resignation may be thus accepted,
it is like to the expiration of the term of office. In" form the
office is thereby ended, but to make it effectual it must be followed by the qualification of a successor.
Sect. 92 (p. 1078) is also referred to: "Town officers, except as otherwise provided, shall hold their offices for one
year, and until others are elected or appointed in their places
and are qualified." The term "otherwise provided" has reference to the original term fixed by law, and not to resignations
or vacancies. -Thus, justices hold for four years, supervisors
and constables for one year; and should- there be created or
found to exist a town officer, and no provision be made as to
the duration -of his office, this section is inte.nded to meet the
case by fixing one year as such term. It has nothing to do
with the case before us, further than it reiterates the rule

604

BADGER ET AL. V. U. S. EX REL. BOLLES.

[Sup. Ct.

eveywhere found in the statutes of Illinois, that such person
shall serve not only for one year, but until his successor shall

qualify.
People ex rel. Williamson v. ikTclenry, 52 N. Y. 374, was the
case of a quo warranto to test the title to the office of collector
of the town of Flatbush, Kings County, N. Y. The defendant
was elected such collector on the fifth day of April, 1870. On
the fourth day of April, 1871, the relator was elected collector
of the same town, but did liot take or file an oath of office or
execute the bond to the supervisors of the town. The.board of
supervisors recognized the defendant as the legal collector, and
delivered to him the warrant for the collection of the taxes of
1871. To settle the dispute, the relator t rought the suit
referred to. The attempt of the defendant to sustain himself
unde." an act of the legislature, extending the term of office of
the collector of Kings County to three years, failed. The court
held the act to be unconstitutional as to existing collectors.
The defendant, however, succeeded in retaining the office, and
had judgment that he was the, legal collector; for the reason,
that, although the relator was legally elected, he had failed to
take the oath of office. The statute of New York as to town
officers was in substance the same as that of the State of Illinois. It was as follows: .' Town officers shall hold.their offices
for one year, and until, others are chosen or appointed in their
places, and have qulified."
In 6 Bissell, 308, is found the opinion of Judge Blodgett in
the case we have before us. He holds that a resignation does
not relieve a supervisor or town-clerk from the responsibilities
of his office until a successor is appointed. We think such is
the law.
In People v. Hopson, 1 Den. 574, and in People v. Btostrand,
46 N. Y. 382, it was said, that when- a person sets up a title to
property by virtue of an office, and comes into court to recover
it, he must show an unquestionable right. It is not enough
that he is an officer defacto, that he merely acts in the office;
but he must be an officer de jure, and have a right to act. So,
we think, where a person being in al office seeks to prevent thle
performance of its duties to a creditor of the town, by a hasty
resignation, he must see that he resigns not only de facto, but

Oct. 1876.]

DESBIARE V. UNITED STATES.

de jure ; that he resigns his office not only, but that a'successor
is appointed. An attempt to create a vacancy at a time -when
such action is fatal to the creditor will not be helped out by
the aid of the courts.
Judgment affirmed.

DESMtARE v. UNITED STATES.
1. A domicile once existing continues until another is acquired ; and, where a
change thereof is alleged, the burden of proof rests upon the party making
the allegation.
2. A., whose domicile was, and continued during the war to be, at New Orleans,
went into or remained within the territory embraced by the rebel lines,
engaged actively in the service of the rebel government, and, while so
engaged, purchased certain cotton, which, upon the subsequent occupation
of that territory by the military forces of the United States, was seized,
sold, and the proceeds paid into the treasury. Held, that his purchase of
the cotton was illegal and void, and gave him no title thereto.
3. Mitchell v. United States, 21 Wall. 350, reaffirmed, and applied to this case.

from the Court of Claims.
On the 26th of June, 1867, Alphonse Desmare, of New
Orleans, La., filed his petition in the Court of Claims to recover the value of five hundred and fifty-six bales of cotton,
alleging that, in the year 1863, he was the owner of that number of bales, then at Opelousas, in the parish of St. Landry, La.;
that, in April, 1863, said cotton was taken and captured by officers of the United States army, by whom, under the orders of
General N. P Banks, commanding the Department of the Gulf,
it was shipped to New Orleans, sold, and the proceeds placed
in the treasury of the United States.
The court below found, as matters of fact,
1. The claimant, before the war, had his domicile in the city
of New Orleans, La., where he resided, and was a partner with
one Laforest,-under the style of Laforest & Desmare, commission-merchants; and he was residing there also on the 19th of
January, 1866. There is no evidence of any change of said
domicile, or of a dissolution of said partnership; nor is there
any evidence as to where the claimant was on the 27th of
April, 1862, when the United States military forces took possession of New Orleans, or before that date, during the-war, or
APPEAL

