284

BIGELoW v. BERKSHIRE LiFE INS. CO.

[Sup. Ct.

is the right to hear and determine; not to determine without

hearing. And where, as in that case, no appearance was
allowed, there could be no hearing or opportunity of being
heard, and, therefore, could be no exercise of jurisdiction. By
the act of the court, the respdndent was excluded from its jurisdiction.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MiLER, MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY, and MR.
JUSTICE HUNT

dissented.

'NOTE. - (he-qory v. JfclVeigh, also in error to the Corporation Court of the
city of Alexandria, Va., was argued at the same time and by the same counsel
as was the preceding case.
hMu. JUSTICs FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is similar to that of Windsor v. .lfcVeigh, and, upon the authority
of the decision in that case, the judgment below is affirmed.

Mr.. JUSTICE MILLER, MR. JUsTIcE BRADLEY, and MIR. JcSTICE- HUNT, dissented.

BIGELOW

v.

BERKSnIRE LIFE INuS1

AfCE

CompA0.

In an action against it upon a policy of life insurance, which provided that it
should be null and void if the insured died by suicide, "sane or insane," the
company pleaded that he"' died from the effects of a pistol-wound inflicted
upon his person by his own hand, and that he intended, by inflicting such
wound, to destroy his own life." Held, that a replication setting up that,
"at the time when he inflicted said wound, he wxas of unsound mind, and wholly
unconscious of his act," is bad.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
This is an action on two policies issued by the defendant on
the life of Henry W. Bigelow. Each contained a condition in
avoidance, if the insured should die by suicide, sane or insane;
and in such case the company agreed to pay to the party in
interest the surrender value of the policy at the time of the
death of Bigelow. The defendant pleaded that Bigelow died
from the effects of a pistol-wound inflicted upon his person by
his own hand, and that he intended by this means to destroy
his life. To this the plaintiffs replied, that Bigelow, at the

