258

BARKLEY v. LEVEE COMMISSIONERS ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

not being found in the record, it cannot be presumed in this
case, and consequently it does not appear that the cotton was
released after seizure by the United States.
Suffice to say, that, in the opinion of the court, the case shows
no legal or equitable ground of recovery.
Judgment affirmed.

BA.RxlEY v. LEVEE COMM SSIOIERS ET AL.
1. A public corporation, charged with specific duties, such as building and repairing levees within a certain district, being superseded in its functions by a law
dividing the district, and creating a new corporation for one portion, and
placing the otllbr under charge of the local authorities, ceases to exist except
so far as its existence is expressly continued for special objects, such as set-tling up its indebtedness, and the like.
2. If, with such limited existence, no provision is made for the continuance or
new election of the officers of such corporation, the functions of the existing
officers will cease when their respective terms expire, and the corporation
will be defacto extinct.
8. In such case, if there be a judgment against the corporation, mandamus will
not lie to enforce the assessment of taxes for its payment, there being no
officers to whom the writ can be directed.
4. The court cannot, by mandamus, compel the new corporations to perform the
duties of the extinct corporation in the levy of taxes for the payment of its
debts, especially where their territorial jurisdiction is not the same, and tie
law has not authorized them to make such levy.
5. Nor can the court order the marshal to levy taxes in such a case; nor in any
case, except where a specific law authorizes such a proceeding.
6. Under these circumstances, the judgment creditor is, in fact, without remedy,
and can only apply to the legislature for relieL

ERROR to the Circuit' Court of the United States for the
District of Lohisiana.
Argued by Mr. E. T. Merrick for the plaintiff in error, and
by Mr. C. L. Walker for the defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY ;1elivered the opinion of the court.

This was an application by Barkley to the court-below for a
mandamus, to be directed to the Board of Levee Commissioners
of the parishes of Madison and Carroll' in the State of Louisiana,
to compel such of said board as then survived to proceed to
assess and collect a tax for the payment of a certain judgment
alleged to have been recovered by the petitioner against the

Oct. 1876.]

BARKLEY V. LEVEE COMMISSIONERS ET AL.

259

said board on the nineteenth day of June, 1872 ; or, if the court
should be of opinion that the survivors have not such power,
and cannot fill vacancies in their body, then that the police
juries of said parishes of Madison and Carroll should perform
that duty, and assess and collect sufficient tax to pay said judgment; or, if the court should be of opinion that it had not
power to make either of said orders, then that it should order
the United States marshal of the district to assess at once, or by
instalments, from year to year, and collect sufficient taxes upon
the property subject to taxation for levee purposes in said
parishes, to pay said judgment debt, interest, and costs; and for
general relief.
The petition, amongst other things, states that the suit in
which the judgment sought to be enforced was rendered, was
originally commenced on the 23d of August, 1867, in the Disfrict
Court of the Thirteenth District of Louisiana, against the
Board of Levee Commissioners of the parishes of Carroll and
Madison, for money due on levee warrants or scrip, being
evidences of debt for work and labor done upon the levees in
the sqid parishes, for the payment of which the laws of Louisiana
had provided the assessment and collection of taxes, and liens
and privileges upon all taxable property in said parishes; that
this suit was afterwards removed by the plaintiff (who was a
citizen of Tennessee) into the Circuit Court of the United
States, and the police juries of said parishes were made parties
thereto; that judgment was entered against the Board of Levee
Commissioners on the date before mentioned for over $100,000 ;
that the said board, after having acted under prior statutes, was
created a corporation by act of the legislature March 10, 1859;
that in March, 1861, each of said parishes was made a separate
levee district, but the power to assess and collect taxes to meet
their indebtedness was continued in the old board; that, when
the suit was commenced, William Sutton, president of the board,
Samuel P. 6hambloss, commissioner for Carroll, and the three
commissioners for Madison, were living, but that Sutton and
Chambloss have since died, and no vacancies have been filled
by election or otherwise. The petition further states, that a
writ of fierifaciashas been issued on the judgment and returned
unsatisfied, after demand made on the secretary and treasurer

260

BARKLEY v. LEVEE CO3MISSIONERS ET AL.

[Sup. Ct

of the board, they, as well as the police juries of the parishes,
pretending that the board was dissolved, and failing to point
out., any property belonging thereto. The petitioner further
contends, that the two parishes are the really interested parties,
and that, if the old Board of Levee Commissioners cannot act,
it is the duty of the police juries to assess and collect sufficient
taxes on the taxable property of the two parishes to pay the
judgment.
A rule was taken on the surviving members of the Board of
Levee Commissioners and on the police juries of the parishes of
Madisn and Carroll, to show cause why a nandamus should
not issue as prayed.
The former, by exception and answer, set up various grounds
of defence, the most important to note being that the corporation of levee commissioners was defunct by resignation and
death, only three (who were not a quorum) remaining alive;
also, that the judgment was void because no service of process
had ever been made on the corporation.
The police juries answered that they were distinct corporations from that of the Board of Levee Commissioners, and were
not vested With power to assess and collect the taxes in question.
After receiving evidence and hearing the parties, the court
below refused the mandamus. Barkley sued out this writ of
error.
We had occasion in the case of The Police Jury v. Britton,
15 Wall. 566, to explain the system of making and maintaining
the levees in Louisiana, which formerly prevailed; which was,
that the riparian proprietors were obliged to keep them up as
one of the considerations on which they held their lands. Thisduty was executed under regulations made by the police juries
of the several parishes (which are the administrative officers
thereof), and under the direction of inspectors by them appointed.
In- some instances, by virtue of special statutes; the levees were
managed by the parish itself, or by a district composed of several
parishes, through proper officers appointed by the police juries,
or otherwisei and the necessary expenses ware xaised by means
of a tax levied upon the inhabitants. !In1852. the parishes of
Carroll, Madison, an4 Catahoula Catafoula, however, being
soon after dxclude-d) were constituted one-1evee district, which,

Oct. 1876.]

BARKLEY V. LEVEE COMMISSIONERS

ET AL.

261

in the following year, was limited, to the alluvial lands in those
parishes (Laws of 1852, p. 234; Laws of 1853, p. 44); and a
tax was directed to be levied for the support of the levees
within the district, the amount and mode of assessing which
was from time to time changed. This tax was directed to be
collected annually by the sheriffs of the respective parishes, or
by collectors to be appointed by the commissioners. To carry
out the act, three commissioners were appointed from each
parish, and were styled the "Board of Levee Commissioners,"
with power to fill vacancies in the board, appoinf officers, lay
out the district into wards, with one inspector to each ward, and
order the levees to be.repaired and built. In 1853 these commissioners were made elective, three to be elected biennially in
each parish by the qualified voters thereof residing in the district
or cuitivating any portion of the alluvial lands therein. In
1859 the board were authori2ed to divide each parish into three
equal portions, each of which was authorized to elect one commissioner.
The warrants on which the judgment in question was founded
were issued-in 1859 and 1860; and the legal provisions then in
force with regard to assessing taxes for supporting the levees
and paying the general liabilities of the. board are to be found
in the act of March 18, 1858, as amended by the act of March
12, 1859. Laws of 1858, p. .128; Laws of 1859, p. 30. By
these acts it was provided that, for the purpose of making and
repairing levees in the district, the commissioners shouldbe
authorized to assess%annually a specific tax df ten cents on- each
and every acre of alluvial lands situated between the base of
'the hills west of Bayou Magon and the levees on the Mississippi
River, in the parish of Carroll, and between the ]evees and the
western boundary, in the parish of Madison, including such
alluvial lands only as had theretofore been held to be within
said levee district; and the commissioners were further
authorized to assess an annual ad valorem tax, at such a per
cent on the State tax, including the mill tax, on all property
assessed in said levee district (lands included), as might be
necessary to build and repair the levees, or to meet and take up
any or all outstanding liabilities of the said board, on account
of levees theretofore erected or repaired. It would seem: from

262

BAEKLEY V. LEVEE COimrssrON

S ETr AL.

[Sup. Ct.

these enactments, that the specific tax of ten cents on each
acre was intended for current expenses of levees, and that the
ad valorem tax was intended to meet any deficiency and to pay
prior obligations incurred. These taxes were declared to be a
first lien and privilege upon the property subject thereto; and,
on return by the sheriff or collector that it had been demnanded
and not paid, the district judge might grant an order of seizure
and sale.
Thus stood matters in 1860. But by acts passed in March,
1861 (Laws of 1861, pp. 96, 110, 118), the levee district of the
parishes of Madison and Carroll was abolished by the creation
of two new separate districts composed of the said parishes
respectively; and since that time no election of members of the
old board has ever been held, the term of office of the then
existing members having expired in 1862; and the board has
been futnctus officio, and has for over fifteen years past ceased to
have any duties to perform, or any existence whatever, except
for the purpose of discharging its old indebtedness. By the
death of the president, and the other members from Carroll,
only three members survive, and these were all elected from
the parish of Madison. In 1866, at the close of the war, an
entirely new system, uniform throughout the State, was adopted,
by putting all the levees under the charge of a single board,
called the Board of Levee Commissioners (Laws of 1866, pp.
34, 36), and afterwards under the Board of Public Works of
the State (Digest of Statutes of La., vol. ii., p. 398, tit. Public
Works) ; and this board has been finally superseded by a private
corporation, called the Louisiana Levee Company, which performs the work by contract with the State.
The question is, whether, as matters now stand, a mandamus
can be issued to compel the surviving commissioners of the old
board, or the police juries of the parishes of Madison and
Carroll, to assess a tax on the property in the former levee
district of said parishes, to pay the judgments in question ; or, if
not, whether the Circuit Court of the United States can direct
the marshal to assess such tax.
In our judgment, neither of these things can be done.
In the first place, we think that the corporation of the Boardof Levee Commissioners of the parishes, of Madison and Carroll.

Oct. 1873.]

BARKLEY v. LEVEE COMMISSIONERS ET AL.

263

is no longer in existence as a matter of fact. It is true, that
the acts of 1861, abrogating the district, and creating two
separate districts, one for each parish, did not in terms abolish
the old corporation, but reserved to it the power to levy taxes
in order to meet its outstanding indebtedness. But the creation
of the new districts, providing (as was done) for the election
of new and separate commissioners in the parish of Carroll, the
placing of the levees in the parish of Madison under the charge
of the police jury, and substituting an entire new system of
levee management in the parishes, superseded all the functions
of the old board and all provisions for their continuance by
election, except so -far as may have been saved by express
reservation. Nothing, however, was thus saved, except their
power to assess taxes to meet their outstanding indebtedness.
And, in fact, no elections for members of ihe board have -ever
been held since that time. The term of office of the commissioners expired in November, 1862, and no provision was made
in the laws constituting the board, that the members should
hold over until the election of their successors. It is true, a
general act had been passed in 1856, declaring that all State
and parish officers should, after the expiration of their term of
service, continue to perform the duties of their office until their
successors should be inducted into office. But the members of
this board were neither State nor parish officers, and the laws.
for electing others in their stead had ceased to have operation.
And although, in ordinary cases, where an election has been
omitted, officers may continue to act as officers de facto beyond
their regular term (though not compellable to do so), and
their acts will bind the corporation which they represent; yet,
where, as in this case, no further provision is made for any
further election, and the functions of the corporation hane been
abrogated or superseded, we do not think that any implied power
to continue in office beyond the prescribed period exists. Our
attention, however, is called to the act passed by the provisional legislature in 1867 (Laws 1867, pp. 264-272), by which
the corporation is assumed to be in existence, and is authorized
to make and issue certain bonds; and for that purpose it is
declared (sect. 10), that "the Board of Levee. Commissioners
shall continue in office, with the power of filling vacancies in

264

BARKLEY V. LEVEE COMMISSIONERS ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

said board, until their successors shall be duly elected and
qualified according to law; and all powers granted -to said Board
of Levee Commissioners by any of the acts aforesiid, or by any
other acts, shall and may be exercised by the members of the
board now in office and any members appointed or elected as
above described." This provision is evidently based upon a
false suggestion. It supposes that "successors"
could be
"elected and qualified," when there was no law then in existence for any such purpose. A different system was in operation,
and had taken the place of that which provided for the election
of these commissioners. The act also declares that the Board
of Levee Commissioners shall continue in office; taking for
granted that they were in office, when, in fact, as we have
seen, they were not. Furthermore, this act was one of the acts
expressly excepted from the operation of the one hundred and
forty-ninth article of the constitution of 1868, which validated
all laws passed since the ordinance of secession in 1861. This
express exception is undoubtedly equivalent to a repeal of
the act.
Our conclusion from the whole case, therefore, is, that the
corporation in question no longer exists, and that no mandamus
can be issued to it or to the surviving persons who were formerly
members of the board.
The prayer for a mandamus against the police juries of the
parishes of Madison and Carroll clearly cannot be granted.
Those bodies never had any power to assess the levee tax in
question. There is no law authorizing them to do so. They
do not act in concert, which they would have to do, in order to
assess a uniform tax on the whole district; and there is no
privity of duty, interest, or succession between them and the
extinct board.
The remaining prayer, for an order directing the marshal to
assess the tax, is equally inadmissible. It is true, that, in the
case of The Supervisors of Lee County v. Rogers, 7 Wall. 175,
we held that the. Circuit Court acting in that case, after having
issued a mandamus to the supervisors of the county commanding
them to levy a tax, an& they having refused to obey the writ,
was authorized, under the Code of Iowa, which provided for
such a proceeding, to issue a writ "to the marshal commanding

Oct. 1876.]

BARKLEY v. LEVEE CO31DISSIONERS ET AL.

265

him to levy and collect the taxes required. But we have never
gone beyond this case, which depended on the special law
referred to. The marshal is the executive officer of the court,
and can only execute its process; and the court, without some
such special authority as that contained in the Iowa Code,
cannot enforce its judgments for the recovery of a debt in any
other way than by seizing and selling the property of the
judgment debtor, or (where imprisonment for debt is authorized)
by seizing and detaining his person. Where the debtor is a
corporation, it cannot seize the property of its members. This
it would do if it should issue a writ to the marshal commanding
him to levy a tax upon the inhabitants of a intnicipal corporation, or upon their private property. The couit has no more
authority, in point of lav, to seize the property of citizens for
the debt of the corporation in which they reside (except in
some of the Eastern States, where a different system prevails)
than it has to seize the property of another corporation. Its
power to issue a mandamus to compel municipal officers to
perform their duty of levying a tax is a distinct power, which
extends to all ministerial acts which officers are legally bound
and refuse to perform. In the recent case of Bees v. The City
of Watertown, 19 Wall. 107, we decided that the court has no
general power to commission the marshal to levy taxes for the
purpose of satisfying a judgment, and we refer to that case for
z more full explanation of our views on this subject.
Much reliance is placed by the counsel of the petitioner on
the fact that the taxes directed to be imposed by the acts of 1858
and 1859 were made a first lien and privilege upon the property
liable thereto. We do not see how this can affect the present
application. Liens for taxes are very generally created throughout the country; but it is never supposed that the public
creditors, to whom the money raised by tax is to be paid, have
the benefit of such lien. It is created for the benefit of the
public authorities, to enable them with greater certainty and
facility to collect the taxes, without the embarrassment of other
pretended claims against the property taxed.
The truth is, that a party situated like the present petitioner
is forced to rely on the public faith of the legislature to supply
him a proper remedy. The ordinary means of legal -redress

BROUGHTON V. PENSACOLA.

[Sup. Gt.

have failed by the lapse of time and the operation of unavoidable contingencies. It is to be presumed that the legislature
will do what is equitable and just; and in this case legislative
action seems to be absolutely requisite.
Judgment afirmed.

BROUGHTON v. PENSACOLA.
A change in the charter of a municipal corporation, in whole or part, by an
amendment of its provisions, or the substitution of a new charter in place of
the old one, embracing substantially the same corporators and the sajne territory, will -not be deemed, in the absence of express legislative declaration
otherwise, to affect the identity of the corporation, or to relieve it from its previous liabilities, although different powers are possessed under the amended
or new charter, and different officers administer its affairs.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Florida.
Argued by Mtlr. P. Phillips and Xr. Thomas C. Jones for
the appellant.
Submitted on printed arguments by Mr. . . Yonge for the
appellee.
AIR. JUSTICE FmLED delivered the opinion of the court.

By an act passed on the 2d of March, 1839, by the then Territory, now State, of Florida, the city of Pensacola, at the time
a pre-existing corporation, was rechartered, and its powers were
vested in a mayor and board of aldermen, who Were, at all
times, to continue "to act in their respective functions" until
the election and qualification of their successors in office.
Among the powers conferred by the charter was the power to
borrow money, not exceeding $5,000 a year, and to levy taxes
and provide for their collection, with a limitation of the
amount to be levied upon real estate to three-fourths of one
per cent.
In December, 1850, by an amendatory act, these limitations
were repealed, and a larger loan and a greater rate of taxation
upon real estate were allowed. By a further amendatory act,
passed on the 3d of January, 1853, the mayor and aldermen,
With the consent of a majority of the corporation, were author-

