Ex PARTE KARSTENDICK.

[Sup. Ct.

tionable features had been pointed out. Be this as it may, we
cannot review it, as there was no exception to it. Apart from
this, we do not see how the plaintiff in error was injured.
The charge, so far from lessening, increased its chances to
defeat the action. The jury bad been told to find for it if the
only injury in controversy was a severe one. After this, to
charge them to find in the same way if, in their opinion, the
medical attendance was for any disease or injury covered by
the "question," was giving the company a larger opportunity
to obtain a verdict than it had before. It was, in effect, informing them that they were at liberty to construe the " question " more favorably to the company than the court had done.
To say the least, it left a better opening for the company to get
a verdict tIan it had by reason of the answer of the court to
the fourth point.
Judgment affirmed.
NoTE.-A case between the same plaintiff in error and Snyder, a son of
Monroe Snyder, deceased, was heard and determined at the same date as the
preceding case. It involved precisely the same points, and was disposed of in
the same manner.

EX PARTE KARSTENDICK.
1. Where a person, convicted of an offence against the United States, is sentenced
to imprisonment for a term longer than one year, the court may, in its discretion, direct his confinement in a State penitentiary.
2. Imprisonment at hard labor, when prescribed by statute as part of the punishment, must be included in the sentence of the person so convicted; but,
where fine and imprisonment, or imprisonment alone, is required, the court
is authorized, in its discretion, to order its sentence to be executed at a place
where, as part of the discipline of the institution, such labor is exacted from
the convicts.
3. Where a court, in passing sentence of- imprisonment in the penitentiary, finds
that, in the district or territory where the court is holden, there is no penitentiary suitable for the confinement of convicts, or available therefor, such
finding is conclusive, and cannot be reviewed here upon a petition for habeas
co?-pus; and, where the AttorneyGeneral has designated a penitentiary in
another State or Territory, for the confinement of persons convicted by such
court, it may order the execution of its sentence at the place so designated.
4. It is no objection to the validity of the order, that the State has not given its
consent to the use of its penitentiary as a place of confinement of a convicted
offender against the laws of the United States. So long as the State suffers
him to be detained by its officers in its penitentiary, he is rightfully in their
custody, under a sentence lawfully passed.,

Oct. 1876.1

EX PARTE KARSTENDICK.

for habeas corpus.
Mr.-DavidC. Labatt for the petitioner.
Mr.Solicitor-General Phillips, contra.
PETITION

MR. CRIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
Karstendick, the petitioner, was indicted for a conspiracy, and
convicted May 1, 1876, in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Louisiana, under sect. 5440 of the Revised
Statutes. The punishment for his offence, prescribed by the
statute, is a penalty of not less than $1,000 nor more than
$10,000, and imprisonment not more than two years. The
sentence, as passed by the court' so far as it is material to the
present inquiry, is as follows: -

"And, it having been in due form determined and ascertained
that there is no penitentiary within the district of Louisiana, suitable for the confinement of persons convicted of crime in the courts
of the United States, in said district of Louisiana, and the AttorneyGeneral of the United States having, in due form, and by and with
competent authority, designated the penitentiary at Moundsville, in
West Virginia, as the place of confinement, subsistence, and employment of all persons convicted, or who may hereafter be convicted,
by the courts of the United States, of crime against the United
States of America, in said district of Louisiana, and such designation having been in due form notified to the court and entered
upon the record thereof, . . . it is considered, by reason of the
verdict herein, . . . that the said Otto H. Karstendick be confined

in the penitentiary of the State of West Virginia, at Moundsville,
in said State, for and during the full period of sixteen calendar
months from and after this day, and that he do also further pay a
fine of $2,000," &c.
In execution of this sentence, Karstendick is now imprisoned
in the penitentiary at Moundsville, and he seeks through this
application to obtain a discharge, alleging for cause that the
order of the court for his imprisonment in a penifentiary, and
without the State of Louisiana, is not authorized by law, and
consequently void.
Sect. 5440 of the Revised Statutes is a reproduction of sect.
80 of an act of Congress, passed March 2, 1867, "to amend

EX PARTE KARSTENDICK.

[Sup. Ct.

existing laws relating to internal revenue, and for other purposes." 14 Stat. 484. At that time another act, passed March
3, 1865, "regulating proceedings in criminal cases, and for
other purposes," was in force, which provided, in sect. 3, that
"in every case where any person convicted of any offence
against the United States shall be sentenced to imprisonment
for a period longer than one year, it shall be lawful for the
court, by -which the sentence is passed, to order the same to be
executed in any State prison or penitentiary within the district
or State where such court is held, the use of which prison or
penitEntiary is allowed by the legislature of such State for such
purposes."- 13 Stat. 500. This provision is also reproduced in
sect. 5541 of the Revised Statutes, save only that the words
"State jail." are substituted for the words "State prison," where
they occur in the original act.
As early as 1834 Congress enacted that, whenever any criminal convicted of any offence against the United States shall be
imprisoned in pursuance of such conviction, or of the sentence
thereupon, in the prison or penitentiary of any State or Territory, such criminal shall, in all respects, be subject to the
same discipline and treatment as convicts sentenced by the
courts of the State or Territory in which such prison or penitentiary is situated, and, while so confined in such prison, shall
also be exclusively under the control of the officers having
charge of the same, under the laws of such State or Territory.
4 Stat. 739.
This provision is re-enacted in sect. 5539 of the Revised
Statutes, the word " jail," however, being substituted in the
revision for "prison,' where it occurs in the original.
All these several statutes, being in _pari materia, -were, when
in force before the revision, to be construed together. The
same is true of the corresponding revised sections, and, under
this rule, the same effect must, be given to sect. 5440, that it
would have if it read as follows: "All the parties to such a conspiracy shall be liable to a penalty of not less than $1,000 and
not more than $10,000, and to imprisonment not more than two
years." Sect. 5440. If the sentence of imprisonment shall be
for a longer term than one year, the court passing the same
may order it to be executed in any State jail or penitentiary

Oct. 1876.]

EX PARTE KARSTENDICK.

within the district or State where said court is held (sect.
5541), and the criminal so imprisoned shall, in all respects, be
subject to the same discipline and treatment as convicts sentenced by the courts of the State or Territory in which such
jail or penitentiary is situated, and shall, while so confined
therein, be exclusively under the control of the officers having
charge of the same under the laws of the State. Sect. 5539.
This language is explicit, and, taken by itself, is certainly
sufficient to authorize imprisonment in a penitentiary, at the
discretion of the court, in all cases where the sentence is for a
longer term than one year. But the coursel for the petitioner,
in their argument, refer to other sections of the statute, which
in terms provide for punishment by imprisonment at hard
labor, and they seek to confine the power of imprisonment in a
penitentiary to such cases; becans , as they claim, imprisonment in a penitentiary necessarily implies imprisonment at
hard labor; and where the punishment provided for by the
statute is imprisonment alone, a sentence to confinement at a
place where hard labor is imposed as a consequence of the imprisonment, is in excess of the power conferred.
We have not been ible to arrive at this conclusion. In cases
where the statute makes hard labor a part of the punishment,
it is imperative upon the court to include that in its sentence.
But where the statute requires imprisonment alone, the several
provisions which have just been referred to place it within the
power of the court, at its discretion, to order execution of its
sentence at a place where labor is exacted as part bf the discipline and treatment of the institution- or not, as it pleases.
Thus, a wider range of punishment is given, and the courts are
left at liberty to graduate their sentences so as to meet the evervarying circumstances of the cases which come before them.
If the offence is flagrant, the penitentiary, with its discipline,
may be called into requisition; but if slight, a corresponding
punishment may be inflicted within the general range of the
law.
This view of the case is strengthened by a further examination of the legislation upon this subject. As early as 1825, in an
"Act more effectually to provide for the punishment of crimes
against the United States, and for other purposes" (4 Stat.

EX PARTE KARSTENDICK.

[Sup. Ct.

118), it was enacted (sect. 15) that "in every case where
any criminal convicted of any offence against the United States
shall be sentenced to imprisonment and confinement at hard
labor, it shall be lawful for the court by which the sentence is
passed, to order the same to be executed in any State prison or
penitentiary within the district or State where such court is
holden, the use of which prison or penitentiary may be allowed
or granted by the legislature of such State for such purposes."
With this statute in force, the act of 1865, which has already
been referred to, was passed, giving the same power in nearly
the same words, where the punishment was by imprisonment
for a longer term than one year, without any special requirement as to hard labor.
.These two acts are separately re-enacted in the Revised Statutes. The act of 1825 is reproduced in sect. 5542, and that of
1865 in sect. 5541, the language of the two original acts being
substantially retained in the revision. With this legislation in
full force, it is impossible to believe that it was the intention
of Congress to confine imprisonment in penitentiaries exclusively to cases in which hard labor is in express terms made by
statute a part of the punishment.
Without extending the argument further upon this branch
of the case, we are clearly of the opinion that the order of the
court directing the imprisonment in a penitentiary is not void.
It still remains to consider whether that part of the sentence
which directed that the imprisonment should be in the penitentiary at Moundsville can be sustained.
* It is conceded that Congress has the power to provide that
persons convicted of crimes against the United States in one
State may be imprisoned in another. Congress can cause a
prison to be erected at any place within the -jurisdiction of the
United States, and direct that all persons sentenced to imprisonment under the laws of the United States shall be confined
there; or it nmay arrange with a single State for the use of its
prisons, and require the courts of the United States to execute
their sentences of imprisonment in them. All this is left to
the discretion of the legislative department of the government,
and is beyond the control of the courts.
Acting under this power, Congress, while recognizing as

Oct. 1876.]

EX PARTE KARSTENDICK.

a rule the propriety of sentencing those convicted of crime
against the United States to imprisonment in the jails or
prisons of the State where their conviction was had, did, in
1864, to meet contingencies that might arise, enact that "all
persons -who have been, or may hereafter be, convicted of crime
by any court of the United States, not military, the punishment whereof shall be imprisonment in a District or Territory
where at the time of such conviction there may be no penitentiary or other prison suitable for the confinement of convicts
of the United States,. or available therefor, shall be confined,
during the term for which they may have been, or may be,
sentenced, in some suitable prison, in a convenient State or
Territory, to be designated by the Secretary of the Interior."
13 Stat. 74. In 1872, the power of designating was transferred to the Attoiney-General. This provision is also reenacted in sect. 5546 of the Revised Statutes, the word "jail"
being substituted for "other prison," and "suitable jail or
penitentiary" for " 's uitable prison," in the original act. This
section is to be construed in connection with the other sections
which have been referred to. In fact, it may be treated as a
proviso to sects. 5541 and 5542.
The counsel for the petitioner do not dispute the validity of
this legislation; but they claim that in this case the conditions
precedent to the execution of the sentence in a prison outside
of the State have not been complied with, and consequently
that the case is not brought within the power of the court to
make such an order.- *
It is first insisted, that, as the State of Louisiana permits the
use of its jails and penitentiaries for the punishment of criminals convicted in. the courts of the United States, the sentences
of imprisonment by those courts-cannot be executed elsewhere.
It is not enough that the jails and penitentiaries of the State
may be used: they must also be suitable. Whether suitable
or not, is a question of fact. In this case, the court passing
the sentence has determined this question, and found that in
the State of Louisiana there was no penitentiary suitable for the
confinement of persons convicted of crime against the United
States.
This finding is conclusive until reversed, and it cannot be
VOL. 1I.

26

Ex PARTE KARSTENDICK.

[Sup. Ct.

reviewed in this form of proceeding. To justify a discharge,
under any writ to be issued upon this application, it must
appear upon the face of the record that the order of commitment was void.
The court also decided, that, under the circumstances of this
case, the punishment should be by imprisonment in a penitentiary. This -made it necessary to ascertain whether any
penitentiary outside the State had been designated by the
Attorney-General of the United States for use when that in
the State was found to be unsuitable.
As to this,'the record shows, that, on the first day of April,
1876, the Attorney-General addressed the following communication to the United States Attorney at Louisiana: "Under the authority granted by sect. 5546 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, I designate the penitentiary at Moundsville, in West Virginia, as the place for the confinement, subsistence, and employment of all persons convicted, by the courts of
the United States for the District of Louisiana, of crime against the
United States, and sentenced by said courts to imprisonment longer
than one year, on and after this instant. You will bring this designation to the notice of the courts,.and have this order entered, if
posiible, on the records."
This action of the Attorney-General was brought to the
attention of the Circuit Court, and the desired entry made.
This, as it seems to us, is clearly a "designation under the
statute, and we are unable to agree with the counsel for the
petitioner in the opinion that it'applies only to persons under
conviction and sentence at the time the order was issued. It
is true the language is, "all persons convicted . . . and sentenced;" and that certainly includes persons already convicted,
but it does not necessarily exclude persons thereafter to be
convicted. The statute makes it the. duty of the AttorneyGeneral to designate other places of confinement, whenever the
jails or penitentiaries of a State are unsuitable or unavailable.
That it was his intention to act in reference to future convictions as well as to past,-is evident from the form of his communication, which is not addressed to, or, so far as appears,
intended for, the marshal -if the district, but to the attorney of
the United States, for th- purpose of being brought by him to

Oct. 18T6.]

Ex

PARTE KARSTENDICK.

the attention of the courts. An order from the Attorney-General to the marshal was all that was necessary to effect a
removal after sentence passed. No action of the courts was
required. A notification to the courts was, therefore, only
necessary for the purpose of influencing their conduct in the
future. A sentence in this case for imprisonment in a State
penitentiary would not have been void, but it might not ha-ve
prevented the Attorney-General, acting under the statute, from
directing a removal of the convict to some penitentiary outside
of the State. Until such removal, the imprisonment in Louisiana 'would have been good. But if the court finds that the
State penitentiary is unsuitable in fact, and the AttorneyGeneral has designated another for'use on that account, we can
see no reason why the court may not sentence the person convicted to imprisonment at the place designated. Suppose there
had been no penitentiary at all in the State, and under the law
the Attorney-General had made his designation, would it for a
moment be doubted that a sentence to imprisonment at the
designated place would be good ? But if a penitentiary is
unsuitable within the meaning of the statute, how is the case
different in principle from what it would be if there were
none? The order of the Attorney-General is equivalent to a
finding by him that the penitentiary of the State was unsuitable or unavailable for the confinement of criminals convicted
under the laws of the United States; and when this action of
the Attorney-General is supplemented by a finding of the same
fact by the court, it seems to us to be as much within the
power of the court to order the imprisonment at Moundsville,
as it would have been if there had been no penitentiary at all
in Louisiana. It certainly could not have been contemplated
that the courts must in all casd sentence to confinement in
the State where the conviction was had, without regard to the
fact whether it could be executed there or not, and that the
sole power of directing the sentence to be executed in another
State was vested in the Attorney-General. That is neither
within the letter nor the spirit of the statute. The sole power
of designation is in the Attorney-General; but when he' has
designated,'if the facts which authorize the change of place
exist, it is as much within the power of the court to order its

EX PARTE KARSTENDICK.

[Sup. Ct.

,sentence to be executed at the designated place, as to determine which of two prisons in a State, equally suitable *and
equally available for the punishment to be inflicted, shall be
employed for that purpose. The policy of the law is to avoid
cicuity of action, and to permit the. courts to do directly, as
far as possible, all that they may do indirectly.
Neither is it an 'objection to the order, as made, diat the
designation of the Attorney-General is of a penitentiary alone.
If the sentemde -of the court had been imprisonment in a jail,
and the jails of the State of Louisiana had been found unavailable or unsuitable, a designation of some jail outside of the
State might have been necessary before the court could have
ordered a confinement ot~tside of the State. But here the sentence is for imprisonment in a penitentiary; and as to that, as
has been seen, there was a sufficient designation.
It is further'insisted on behalf of the petitioner, that the
legislature of the State of West Virginia has not given its consent to the use of the penitentiary.of the State by the United
States for the punishment of their criminals, and that for this
reason the order for 'his confinement there is void. The petitioner is actually confined in the penitentiary, and neither the
State nor its officers object. Congress has authorized imprisonment, as a punishment for crimes against the United States, in
the State prisons. So far as the United States can do so, they
have made the penitentiary at Moundsville a penitentiary of
the United States, and the State officers having charge of it
their agents to enforce the sentdnces of imprisonment passed
by their courts. The question is not now whether the State
shall submfit to this use of its property by the United States,
nor whether these State officers shall be compelled to act as
the custodians of those confined there under the authority of
the United States, but whether this .petitioner can object if
they do not. -Wethink he cannot. So long as the State permits him to remain in its prison as the prisoner of the United
States, and does not object to his detention by its officers, he
is rightfully detained in custody under a sentence lawfully
passed.
Neither do we think the objection tenable, that there can be
no imprisonment in apenitentiary outside of Louisiana, if there

Oct. 1876.]

THE " JOHN L. HASBROUCK."

are within that State jails that are both suitable and available.
It is for the court to determine whether the imprisonment shall
be in a jail or a penitentiary. If in a penitentiary, then a
penitentiary must be found inside -of the State suitable and
available, in order that the sentence to be pronounced may
be executed there. If there is none, resort may be had to
those of another State. Imprisonment need not necessarily
be ordered in a jail because the penitentiary of the State is
unsuitable.
As the whole record is before us, and.the case has been fully
Denied,
argued upon the merits, the writ is
NOTE. -In
Ex parte Henderson, the application for a writ of habeas corpus was
denied, for the reasons assigiied in the foregoing opinion.

TiEn

"Jom

L. HASBROUCK."

1. The rule requiring a sailing-vessel to keep her course when approaching a
steamer in such direction as to involve risk of collision does not forbid such
necessary variations in her course as will enable her to avoid immediate
danger arising from natural obstructions to navigation.
2. Where well-known usage has sanctioned one comse for a steamer ascending, and another for a sailing-vessel descending, a river, the vessel, if
required by natural obstructions to navigation to change her course, is, after
passing them, bound to resume it. Failing to do so, and continuing, her
course directly into that which an approaching steamer is properly navigating, she is not entitled to recover for a loss occasioned by a collision,
which the steamer endeavored to prevent, by adopting the only meaIs in
her power.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Eastern District of New York.
This was a libel by the owners of the sloop" Venus " against
the steam-propeller "John L. Hasbrouck," to recover damages
for the sinking of the sloop by a collision with the propeller
on the Hudson River, near West Point, on the night of Nov.
27, 1869. The Distiict Court held that the collision was
caused by the sole fault of the "Venus," and entered a decree
dismissifig "the libel; which decree having been affirmed by the
Circuit Court, the libellant brought the case here.

