24

NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO. v. STATHAM ET -AL.

[Sup. Ct.

of Booth and .Rycroft, 3 Wis. 157, as a case precisely in point
in favor of granting the writ. It had probably escaped the
recollection of counsel that this very case was reversed by this
court in Ableman v. Booth, 21 How. 506, in which Chief Justice Taney delivered one of his -most elaborate and able
opinions.
As the entire record has been brought before us by the petition, and we are clear as to ourwant of authority to discharge
the prisoner, the application for the writ is
-Denied.

N:Ew YoRK LIFE INSURANCE COM
SA

-ANY
v. STATHAM ET AL.

v. SEYIS.

MANiATTAN LIFE I:NSU.R"c

ComTAi

v. Bucx,

EXECUTOR.
I.

-A policy of life assurance which stipulates for the payment of an annual pemilim by the assured, with a condition" to be void on non-pajment, is not
an insurance from year to year, like a common fire policy; but the premiums constitute an annuity', the whole of which is the consideration for the
entire dssurance for life; and the condition is a condition subsequent,
making, by its Tnon-performance, the policy void.
2. The time of payment in such a policy is material, and of.the essence of the
contract; and a failure to pay involves an absolute forfeiture, which
cannot be relieved against in equity.
3. If a failure to pay the annual premium be caused by the intervention of war
between the territories in which the insurance company and the assured
respectively reside, which makes it unlawful for them to hold intercourse,
the policy is nevertheless forfeited if the company insist on the condition;
but in suoh case the assured is. entitled to the equitable value of the policy
arising from the premiums actually paid.
4. This equitable value is the difference between the cast of a new policy and
the present value of the premiums yet to be paid on the forfeited policy
when the forfeiture occurred, and may be recovered in an action at law or
a suit in equity.
5. The doctrine of revival of contracts, suspended diiing the war, is based oxi
considerations of equity and 'justice, and cannot be invdked to revive a contract which it would be unjust or inequitable to revive,-as where tfme is
of the essence of the contract, of the parties cannot be made equal. 6. The average rate of mortality is the fundamental basis of -life assuranceand
as this is subverted by. giving to the assured the option to revive their policies or not after they have been-suspended by a war tsince none but the
sick and dying would apply), it would be unjust to compel a revival against
the company.

-

Oct. 1876.]

NEW YORK LIFE InS. Co. v. STATHAM ET AL.

25

THE first of these cases is here on appeal from, and the
second and third on writs of error to, the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi.
The first case is a bill in equity, filed to recover the amount
of a policy of life assurance, granted by the defendant (now
appe]lan't) in 1851, on the life of Dr. A. D. Statham, of Mississippi, from the proceeds of certain funds belonging to the
defendant attached in the hands of its agent at Jackson, in
that State. It appears from the statements of the bill that
the annual premiums accruing on the policy were all regularly
paid, until the breaking out of the late civil war, but that, in
consequence of that. event, the premium due on the 8th of
December, 1861, was not paid; the parties assured being residents of Mississippi, and the defendant a corporation of New
York. Dr. Statham died in July, 1862.
The second case is an action at law against the". same defendant to recover the amount of a policy issued in 1859 on the life
of Henry S. Seyms, the husband of the plaintiff. In this case,
also, the premiums had been paid until the breaking out of the
war, when, by reason thereof, they ceased to be paid, the plaintiff and her husband being residents of Mississippi. He died
in May, 1862.
The third case is a similar action against the Manhattan
Life Insurance Company of New York, to recover the amount
of a -policy issued by it in 1858, on the life of C. L. Buck,
of Vicksburg, Miss.; the circumstances being substantially the
same as in the other cases.
Each policy is in the usual form of such an instrument,
declaring that the company, in consideration of a 'certain
specified sum to it in hand paid by the assured, and, of an
annual premium of the same amount to be paid on'the same
day and month in every year during the continuance of the
policy, did assure the life of the party named, in a specified
amount, for the term of his natural life. Each contained
various conditions, upon the breach of which it was to be
null and 7oid; and amongst others the following: "That in
case the said [assured] shall not pay the said premium on
or before the several days hereinbefore mentioned for the pay-

26

NEw YORK LIFE Is.

CO. v. STATHAM ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

ment thereof, then and in every such case the said company
shall not be liable to the payment of the sum insured, or in
any part th 'eof, and this policy shall cease and determine."
The Manhattan policy contained the additional provision, that,
in every case where the policy should cease or become null and
void, all previous payments made thereon should be forfeited
to the company.
The non-payment of the premiums in arrear was set up in
bar of the actions; and the plaintiffs, respectively relied on the
existence of the war as an excuse, offering to deduct the premiums in arrear from the amounts of the policies.
The decree and judgments below were against the defendants.
Mr. Matt. _. Carpenter and Mr. James A. Garfield for the
appellant in the first case, and for the plaintiff in error in the
second. The third case was submitted by Mr. Alfred Pitman
for .the plaintiff in error.*
The rights involved depend upon the contract. The court
will not interpolate new conditions, but hold the parties to
their agreement. -Dermottv. Jones, 2 Wall. 1; Jeffreys v. Life
ns. Co., 22 id. 47. It consists of two parts, and is divisible.
The payment of the first premium accomplished two things:
First,it effected an .insurance upon the life of the applicant for
one year, which is, so far as he is concerned, an executed contract. Should he die within that specific period, the company
absolutely covenants to pay the amount of the policy., Second,
it purchased the option of his making the stipulated payments,
and thus cbntinuing the insurance from year to year, and is in
this respect an executory contract. Worthington v. Charter
Oak Life Ins. Co., 41 Conn. 372. The provisions requiring
payment of the agreed premium for each subsequent year are
an essential part of the substance of the contract, by which
the duration of the risk is limited and defined, and are not a
condition in the nature of a penalty. Dean v. Nelson, 10 Wall.
The arguments submitted by the counsel separately are presented as a
whole, no attempt being made to assign to each what he chiefly or alone may
have said. The point as to the surrender value of the policy was, however,

made by Mr. Garfield,in his conclfiding argument for the companies.

Oct. 1876.]

NEw YORK LIFE INS. CO. V. STATHAM ET AL.

27

158. They declare that the policy, if the requisite premium
is not paid, expires by its own limitation; but if the court considers that they create a condition, then we insist that it is a
condition precedent to the renewal and extension of the risk.
Until its performance, no liability is incurred by the underwriter, and no right vests in the policy-holder. ' Want et al. v.
Blunt et al., 12 East, 183; rPhniz Life Ins. Co. v. Sheridan,
8 Ho. of Lds. Cas. 745; Law R. 9 Ch. 502; id. 9 Eq. 705;
id. 17 Eq. 316-320. An impossibility to perform it does not
prevent the loss which results therefrom; nor will a court. of
equity relieve against the consequences of a breach, although
such impossibility be occasioned by -law. Salk. 231, 2383;
3 Vern. 338, 339, 344; 1 id. 223; 1 Bro. Ch.168; Earl of
Shrewsbury v. Scott, 6 C. B. w. S. 1; Barker v. .fodq8on,
3 M. & S. 267.
From the beginning of the war until the President's proclamation of Aug. 6, 1861, the assured, who lived within the
rebel States, had full opportunity and permission to withdraw
to loyal territory. His duty in such a case is clearly indicated
in -Airs.Alexander!8 Cotton, 2 Wall. 421, and The William Bagley, 5 id. 377. He elected to remain within the jurisdiction of
the enemy. The result of his choice cannot be pleaded as an
excuse for non-performance; nor can relief be claimed on the
ground insisted upon by the other side, that, when the annual
premium became due, its payment was rendered unlawful by
the existence of ivar.
The contract, urider the circumstances, and by his own voluntary act, was, if for no other reason, made void by' the war;
because its continued existence depended upon the performance of certain conditions by a perion who remained within the
Confederate lines, when all intercourse was prohibited by law.
Hanyer v. Abbott, 6 Wall. 536; Duer on Insurance, 473, note 2;
Thonipson v. United 't,tes, 15 Wall. 400. As insurance of the
property or lives of enemies violates the laws of war, all such
continuing policies are annulled when hostilities commence
between tI.e countries where the insurance company and the
assured respectively reside. The war, ipso facto, dissolved the
contracts sued on. Pri'tado v. Rogers, 3 l3os. & Pull. 191.
There can be no well-founded distinction between a promise

28

NEW YORK LirE INS. CO. v. STATHAM _ET AL.

[Sup.

t-.

to indemnify a hostile country and one to indemnify its citizen
or subject, though a non-combatant, against loss of life. Upon
his death, should the contract be valid, and the non-performance
of the condition which he has assumed be waived, an absolute
right to a sum of money accrues, even though payment might
not be enforced until the close of the war. We also insist, that
during the war, and when the insured died, the contract, by
its own limitation, or by reason of the non-performance of the
condition, ceased and determined. The ground taken on the
other side is, that only the particular clause requiring the stipulated annual'payment was suspended, and that no loss arises
from a non-compliance with its terms. This extraordinary
result then follows. The contract, so far as the company is
concerned, remains in foi'ce, and absolutely binds it, whilst the
enemy is excused from performance. Should the insured survive the war, there would be no obligation to pay the back
premiums, the contract being ufiilateral; if he dies, the assured can claim, as is done -in these cases, the amount of the
policy.
But if the court should reject these -iews, and hold that the
defences are not a valid bar to a recovery in these suits, it will
not affirm the judgments and decree for the entire amount of
the several policies. If any equitable adjustment of the matters in controversy be made, the policy-holder, whose policy was
alive when the war began, should not be entitled to any thing
beyond its surrender value at that date. Such an adjustment
would not impose on the assured the forfeiture of the premiums paid, or on the company the hardship of paying all
lapses, whether voluntary or involuntary.
31r. Clinton L. Rice for the appellees in the first case, and
MIr. Joseph Casey' for the defendant in error in the second.
The third case was submitted by 1r. W. P. Harris for the
defendant in error.
A contract of insurance, when made upon and for the life of
the insured, is a contract for life, and not from year to year.
fanhattan Life Ins. Co. v. W'arwick, 20 Gratt. 620; Beese v.
.f1tt. Benefit Life lis. Co., 26 Barb. 556 ; Hodson's Adn'rs v.
Guard. Life Ins. Co., 97 Mass. 144; Billyard v. 3iat. Benefit
As. Co., 37 N. J. 444. The payment of the premiums is a

Oct. 1876.]

NEW YORK LIFE INS. Co. v. STATHAM ET AL.

29

condition subsequent, the performance of which is excused
when rendered illegal by the interdiction of commerce and
intercourse in time of war between the countries where the
contracting parties respectively reside.
It is not an executory contract of such a nature as to be ipso
facto terminated or abrogated by a state of war. The war did
not, therefore, proprio vigore, annul it, or impair any vested
right under it. It had no other effect than to suspend the
remedy upon, or the performance of, it. Statham v. New York
Life Ins. Co., 45 Miss. 592; Cohen v. New York Hut. Life Ins.
Co., 50 N. Y. 610; Sanzds v. New York Life Ins. Co., id..626;
1MIanhattan Life Ins. Co. v. Warwick, supra; New York Life
Ins. Co. v. Clopton, 7 Bush, 179; Hamilton v. New York M14ut.
Life Ins. Co., 9 Blatch. 234; Semmes v. Hartford Ins. Co., 13
Wall. 158; Griswold v. Waddington, 16 'Johns. 438; Bliss on
Life Ins. (2d ed.) pp. 657-702. Conditions .are void, if, at the
time of their creation, their performance is impossible, or afterwards becomes so, by the act of God or the law. Walker v.
Osgood, 53 Me. 432; Wood v. Edwards, 19 Johns. 205; Glover
v. Taylor, 41 Ala. 124; People v. Bartlett, 3 Hill, 570; Story's
Eq. sects. 1304, 1307; Brewster v. Kitchen, 1 Ld. Raym. 317;
Coke's Com. 206 a; 2 Pars. on Contr. 672-674. The nonperformance of a condition subsequent, where its performance
is a forbidden and unlawful act, does not work a forfeiture of the
policy. There is no forfeiture, in the just sense of that term,.
where the law prohibits performance (Semmes.v. HartfordhIs.
Co., supra ; Dean v. Nelson, 10 Wall. 169; Brewster v. Kitchen,
supra; Ten levey v. Hubbard, 3 B. & P. 291) ; and every intendment consistent with the contract will be made to prevent a
forfeiture. illcAllister v. N. E. Mut. Life Ins. Co., 101 Mass.
558; X B. fut. Life Ins. Co. v. Hasbrook, 32 Ind. 447;
Relme v. Phila.Life IT??s. Co., 61 Penn. 107; Bliss on Life Ins.,
sects. 186,190; . Thompson v. St. Louis Mi1ut. Life Ins. Co., 52
Mo. 469. On the cessation of hostilities, the former state of
things revived, and rights under a valid contract were restored
to their original vigor. United States v. Grossnieyer, 9 Wall.
72; 1Montgomery v. United States, 15 id. 395; Undted States v.
Lapene, 17 id. 601.

80

NET YORK LIFE INs.

Co.

v. STATHAM ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

MR. JusTIcE BRADLEY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
We agree with the court below, that the contract is not an
assurance for a single year, with a privilege of renewal from
year to year by paying the annual premium, but that it is an
entire contract of assurance for life, subject to discontinuance
and forfeiture for non-payment of any of the stipulated premiums. Such is the form of the contract, and such is its
character. It has been contended that the payment of each
premium is the consideration for insurance during the next
following year, -- as in fire policies. But the position is untenable. It often happens that the assured pays the entire premium in advance, or in five, ten, or twenty annual instalments.
Such instalments are clearly not intended as the consideration
for the respective years in which they are paid; for, after they
are all paid, the policy stands gbod for the balance of the life
insured, without any further payment. Each instalment is, in
fact, part consideration of the entire insurance for life. It is
the same thing, where the annual premiums are spread over
the whole life. The value of assurance for one year of a man's
life when he is young, strong, and healthy, is manifestly not
the same as when he is old and decrepit. There is no proper
relation between the annual premium and the risk of assurance
for the year in which it is paid. This idea of assurance from
year to year is the suggestion of ingenious counsel. The annual premiums are an annuity, the present value of which is
calculated to correspond with the present value of the amount
assured, a reasonable percentage being added to the premiums
to cover expenses and contingencies. The whole premiums are
balanced agAinst the whole insurance.
But whilst this is true, it must be conceded that promptness
of payment is essential in the business of life insurance. All
the calculations of the insurance company are based on the
hypothesis of prompt payments. They not only calculate on
the recelpt of the premiums when due, but on compounding
interest upon them. It is on this basis that they are enabled
to offer assurance at the favorable rates they do. Forfeiture
for non-payment is a necessary means of protecting themselves
from embarrassment. Unless it were enforceable, the business

Oct. 1876.]

NEw YORK LIFE INS. CO. v. STATHAM ET AL.

81

would be thrown into utter confusion. It is like the forfeiture
of shares in mining enterprises, and all other hazardous undertakings. There must be power to cut off unprofitable members, or the success of the whole scheme is endangered. The
insured parties are associates in a great scheme. This associated relation exists whether the company be a mutual one or
not. Each is interested in the engagements of all; for out of
the coexistence of many risks arises the law of average, which
underlies the whole business. An essential feature of this
scheme is the mathematical calculations referred to, on which
the premiums and amounts assured are based. And these calculations, again, are based on the assumption of average mortality, and of prompt payments and compound interest thereon.
Delinquency cannot be tolerated nor redeemed, except at the
option of the company. This has always been the understanding and the practice in this departiment of business. Some
companies, it is true, accord a grace of thirty days, or other
fixed period, within which the premium in arrear may be paid,
on certain conditions of continued good health, &c. But this
is a matter of stipulation, or of discretion, on the part of the
particular company. When no stipulation exists, it is the general understanding that time is material, and that the forfeiture
is absolute if the premium be not paid. The extraordinary
and even desperate efforts sometimes made, when an insured
person is in extremis, to meet a premium coming due, demonstrates the common view of this matter.
The case, therefore, is one in which time is material and of
the essence of the contract. Non-payment at the day involves
absolute forfeiture, if such be the terms of the contract, as is
*the case here. Courts cannot with safety vary the stipulation
of the parties by introducing equities for -the relief of the
insured against their, own negligence.
But the couit below bases its decision 6n the assumption
that, when performance of the condition becomes illegal in
consequence of the prevalence of public war, it is excused, and
forfeiture does not ensue. It supposes the contract to have
been suspended during the war, and to have revived with -al
its force when the war ended. Such a suspension and reviial
do take place in the case of orlinary debts. But have they

32

NEw YORK LIFE INs. CO. v. STATHATN ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

ever been known to take place in the case of executory contracts in which time :s material? If a Texas merchant had
contracted to.furnish some Northern explorer a thousand cans
of preserved meat by a certain day, so as to be ready for his
departure fbr the North Pole, and was prevented from furnishing it by the civil war, would the contract still be good at the
close of the war five years afterwards, and after the return of
1he expedition ? If the proprietor of a Tennessee quarry had
agreed, in 1860, to furnish, during the two following years, ten
thousand cubic feet of marble, for the construction of a building in Cincinnati, could he have claimed to perform the contract in 1865, on the ground that the war prevented an earlier
performance ?
The truth is, that the doctrine of the revival of contracts
suspended during the war is one based on considerations of
equity and justice, and cannot be invoked to revive a contract
which it would be unjust or inequitable to revive.
In the case of life insurance, besides the materiality of time
in the performance of the contract, another strong reason exists
why the policy should not be revived. The parties do not stand
on equal ground in reference to such a revival. It would operate most unjustly against the company. The business of insurance is founded on the law of averages; that of life insurance
eminently so. The average rate of mortality is the basis on
which it rests. By spreading their risks over a large number
of cases, the companies calculate on this average with reasonable certainty and safety. Any thing that interferes with it
deranges the security of the business. If every policy lapsed
by reason of the war should be revived, and all the back premiums should be paid, the companies would have the benefit
of this average amount of risk. But the good risks are never
heard from; only the bad are sought to be revived, where the
person insured is either dead or dying. Those in health can
get new policies cheaper than to pay arrearages on the old.
To enforce a revival of the bad cases, whilst the company
necessarily lose the cases which are desirable, would be manifestly unjust. An insured person, as before stated, does n6t
stand isolated and alone. His case is connected with and corelathd to the cases of all others insured by the same company.

Oct. 1876.]

NEW YORK LIFE INS. Co. v. STATHAISI.ET AL.

33

'The nature of the business, as a whole, must be looked at to
understand the general equities of the parties.
We are of opinion, therefore, that an action cannot be maintained for the amount assured on a policy of life insurance forfeited, like those in question, by non-payment of the premium,
even though the payment was prevented by the existence of
the war.
The question then arises, Must the insured lose all the money
which lhas'beep paid for-premiums on their respective policies?
If they must, they will sustain an equal injustice to that -which
the companies would sustain by reviving the policies. At the
very first blush, it seems manifest that justice requires that
they should have some Zompensation or return for the money
already paid, otherwise the companies would be the gainers
from their loss; and that from a cause for which neither party
is to blame. The case may be illustrated thus: Suppose an
inhabitant of Georgia had bargained for a house, situated in a
Northern city, to be paid for by instalments, and no title to be
made until all the instalments were paid, with a condition
that, on the failure to pay any of the instalments when due,
the contract should be at an end, and the previous payments
forfeited; and suppose that this condition was declared by the
parties to be absolute and the time of payment material. Now,
if some of the instalments were paid before the war, and others
accruing during the war were not paid, the contract, as an executory one, was at an end. If the necessities of the vendor obliged
him to avail himself of the condition, and to.resell the property
to another party, would it be just for him to retain the money
lie had received? Perhaps it might be just if the failure to
pay had been voluntary, or could, by possibility, have been
avoided. But it was caused by ain event beyond the control of
either party, - an event which made it unlawful to pay. In
such case, whilst it would be unijust, after the war, to enforce
the contract as an executory one against the vendor, contrary
to his will, it would be equally unjust in him, treating it as
ended, to insist upon the forfeiture of the money already paid
on it. An equitable right to some comp ,ation or return for
previous payments would clearly result from the circumstances
of the case. The money paid by the purchaser, subject to the
VOL.

111.

3

34

Nnw YORK LIFE INS. Co. v. STATHAM ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

value of any possession which he may have enjoyed, should, ex
cequo et bono, be returned to him. This would clearly be demanded by justice and right.
,And so, in the present case, whilst the insurance company
has a right to insist on the materiality of time in the condition
of payment of premiums, and to hold the contract ended by
reason of non-payment, they cannot with any fairness insist
upon the condition, as it regards the forfeiture of the premiums
already paid; that would be clearly unjust and inequitable.
The insured has an equitable right to have this amount restored to him, subject to a deduction for the -value of the assurance enjoyed by him whilst the policy was. in existence; in
other words, he is fairly entitled to have the equitable value of
his policy.
As before suggested, the annual premiums are not the consideration of assurance for the year in which they are severally paid, for they are equal in amount; whereas, the risk in
the early years of life is much less than in the later. It is common knowledge, that the annual premiums are increased with
the age of the person applying for insurance. According to
approved tables, a person becoming insured at twenty-five is
charged about twenty dollars annual premium on a policy of
one thousand dollars, whilst a person at forty-five is charged
about thirty-eight dollars. It is evident, therefore, that,
when the younger person arrives at forty-five, his policy has
become, by reason of his previous payments, of considerable
value. Instead of having to pay, for the balance* of his life,
thirty-eight dollars per annum, as lie would if he took out a
new policy on which nothing had been paid, he has only to pay
twenty dollars. The difference (eighteen dollars per annum
during his life) is called the equitable value of his policy.
The present value of the assurance on his life exceeds by this
amount what he has yet to pay. Indeed, the, company, if well
managed, has laid aside and invested a reserve fund equal to
this equitable value, to be appropriated to the payment of his
policy when it falls due. This reserve fund has grown out of
the premiums already paid. It belongs, in one sense, to the
insured who has paid them, somewhat as a deposit in a savingsbank is said to belong to the person who made the deposit.

Oct. 1876.]

NEW YORK LIFE INS. Co. v. STATHAM ET AL.

35

Indeed, some life-insurance companies have a standing regulation by which they agree to pay to any person insured the
equitable value of his policy whenever he wishes it; in other
words, it is due on demand. But whether thus demandable or
not, the policy has a real value corresponding to it, - a value olf
which the holder often realizes money by borrowing. The careful capitalist does not fail to see that the present value of the
amount assured exceeds the present value of the annuity or
annual premium yet to, be paid by the assured party. The
present value of the amount assured is exactly represented by
the annuity which would have to be paid on a new policy; or,
thirty-eight dollars per annum in the case supposed, where the
party is. forty-five years old; whilst the present value of the
premiums yet to l5e paid on a policy taken by the same person
at twenty-five is but little more than half that amount. To
forfeit this excess, which fairly belongs to the assured, and is
fairly due from the company, and which the latter actually
has in its coffers, and to do this for a cause beyond individual
It would be taking away
control, would be rank injustice.
become substantially
already
had
which
from the assured that
maxim, that no one
the
to
contrary
his property. It would be
poor.
another
should be made rich by making
We are of opinion, therefore, first, that as the companies
elected to insist upon the condition in these cases, the policies in
question must be regarded as extinguished by the non-payment
of the premiums, though caused by the existence of the war,
aid that an action -ill not lie for the amount insured thereon.
Secondly, that such failure being caused by atpublic war,
without the fault of the assured, they are entitled ex &-quoet bono
to recover the equitable value of the policies with interest from
the close of the war.
It results from these conclusions that the several judgments
and the decree in the cases before us, being in favor of the plaintiffs for the whole sum assured, must be reversed, and the records
remanded for further proceedings. We perceive that the declaration- in the actions at law contain no common or other counts
applicable to the kind of relief which, according to our decision,
the plaintiffs are entitled to demand; but as the question is one
of. first impression, in which the parties were necessarily some-

36

NEW YORK LIFE INs. CO. V. STATHAM ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

what in the dark with regard to their precise rights and remedies, we think it fair and just that they should be allowed to
amend their pleadings. In the equitable suit, perhaps, the
prayer for alternative relief might be sufficient to sustain a
proper decree; but, nevertheless, the complainants should be
allowed to amend their bill, if they shall be so advised.
In estimating the equitable value of a policy, no deduction
should be made from the precise amount which the calculations
give, as is sometimes done where policies are voluntarily surrendered, for the purpose of discouraging such surrenders; and
the value should be taken as of the day when the first default
occurred in the payment of the premium by 'which the policy
became forfeited. In each. case the rates of mortality and
interest used in the tables of the company will form the basis of
the calculation
The decree in the equity suit and the judgments in "the actions
at law are reversed, and the causes respectively remanded to
be proceeded with accordingto law and the directions of this
opinion.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE.
I agree with the majority of the court in the opinion that the
decree and judgmbnts in these cases should be reversed, and that
the failure to pay the annual premiums as they matured put an
end to the policies, notwithstanding the default was occasioned
by the war; but I do not think that a default, even under such
circumstances, raises an implied promise by the company to pay
the assured what his policy was equitably worth at the time.
I therefore dissent from that part of the judgment just announced
which remands the causes for trial upon such a promise.

M . JUSTICE STRONG.
While I concur in a reversal of these judgments and tihe
decree, I dissent entirely from the opinion filed by a majority
of the court. I cannot construe the policies as the majority
have construed them. A j)olicy of life insurance is a peculiar
contract. Its obligations are unilateral. It contains no -undertaking of the assured to pay premiums: it merely gives him
an option to pay or not, and thus to continue the obligation of

Oct. 1876.]

NEW YORK LIFE INS. CO. V. STATHAM ET AL.

37

the insurers, or terminate it at his pleasure. It follows that the
consideration for the assumption of the insurers can in no sense
be considered an annuity consisting of the annual premimns.
In my opinion, the true meaning of the contract is, that the
applicant for insurance, by paying the first premium, obtains an
insurance for one year, together with a right to have the insurance continued from year to year during his life, upon payment
of the same annual premium, if paid in advance. Whether he
will avail himself of the refusal of the insurers, or not, is optional
with him. The payment ad diem of the second or any subsequent premium is, therefore, a condition precedent to continued
liability of the insurers. The assured may perform it or not, at
his option. In such a case, the doctrine that accident, inevitable
necessity, or the act of God, may excuse performance, has no
existence. It is for this reason that I think the policies upon
which these suits *'vere brought were not in force after the
assured ceased to pay premiums. And so, though for other
reasons, the majority- of the court holds; but they hold, at the
same time, that the assured in each case is entitled to recover the
surrender, or what they call the equitable, value of the policy.
This is incomprehensible to me. I think it has never before
been decided that the surrender value of a policy can be recovered
by an assured, unless there has been an agreement between the
parties for -a surrender; and certainly it has not before been
decided that a supervening state of war makes a contract between
private parties, or raises an implkation of one.
'IR.JUSTICE CLIFFORD, with wliom concurred
HUNT, dissenting.

AIR. JUSTICE

Where the parties to an executory money-contract live in
different countries, and the governments of. those countries
become involved in public war with each other, the contract
between such parties is suspeuded during the existence of the
war, and revives-when "peace ensues ; and that rule, in my judgnment, is as applicable to the contract of life insijramce as to any
other executory contract. Consequently, I am obliged to dissent
from the opinion and judgment of the court in these cases.

