124

COUNTY, ETC., v. AMERICAN - EmIGRANT Co.

COUNTY OF CAT,HOUlN ET ATL. v. AmERIOAN_

[Sup. Ct.

EMfIGRANT

COMPANY.1. A deed takes effect only from the time of delivery, and, when deposited as an
escrow, nothing passes by it unless the condition is performed.
2. A county, by its contract for the sale of lands, whereof it was the owner, stipulated that it would not assess taxes against them until after they should be
conveyed. The deed was executed, and deposited with the clerk of the
board of county supervisors as an escrow, and was not to be delivered until
the performance'by the grantee of a certain condition. The condition was
not performed; and the deed having been surreptitiously placed on record,
the county brought suit to set it and the contract aside. The court, on
Mlay 20, 1872, by consent, dismissed the bill, and decreed that such dismissal should for ever bar and estop the county from setting up any right
or title- to the lands in controversy. In July following, the county listed
certain of the lands for taxes for the years 1870 and 1871 ; and was proceeding to enforce collection, when the court below, upon a bill filed for that
purpose by the appellee, decreed that the assessment was void, and
enjqined all proceedings by the county in the matter. Held, that the
decree was proper.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
district of Iowa.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Submitted on the record by lr. James Grant for the appellants, and on printed arguments by lfr. C. C. Nourse for the
appellee.
iR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

Power is vested in the Circuit Court to enjoin the collection
of a municipal tax, where it appears that the assessors acted
without authority of law, and in violation of a special contract
between the municipality imposing the tax and the tax-payer.
Swamp-lands were owned by the county of Calhoun, and the
record shows that the proper authorities of the county contracted
to sell the same to the American Emigrant Company, the
county stipulating that they-would not assess any taxes against
the lands until after the time the lands should be conveyed to
the company.
Pursuant to that contract, the supervisors of the county made
a deed of the lands to the Emigrant Company; but they recited,
i1 the instrument that the deed was deposited with the clerk of

Oct. 1876.]

COUNTY,

Em., v.

AMERICAN EDIGR-ANT

CO.

125

their board as an escrow, and that it was not to be delivered to
the grantees until they should execute a mortgage back to the
county, conditioned to secure the full performance of the contract. Such a mortgage was never executed; but the evidence
shows that, the deed, by some means or agency not explained,
was filed for record, and that it was duly recorded. Controversy ensued, and the county instituted a suit to set aside the
contract and the deed. Pending the suit, the parties made a'
settlement; and, as a part of the terms of ihe same, fhe county,
in consideration of certain moneys paid by the other party, consented to a decree, declaring the title to the swamp-lands, and.
swamp-land interests of the county, to be in the Emigrant.Company.
Sufficient also appears to show, that the Emigrant Company
complied with all the terms of the settlement, and that the Circuit Court, where the suit was pending, entered a decree, by
consent of the parties, dismissing the. bill of complaint, and
decreed that the decree of dismissal should for ever operate as a
bar and estoppel upon the county to set up any right or title to
the lands in controversy. Prior to that 'decree, which bears
date the 20th of May, 1872, the lands described in the contract
had not been assessed for the two preceding years, as is averred
in the bill of complaint and admitted in the answer.
Public property is not subject to taxation by the law of the
State, and consistency forbade the county to assess the lands
pending the controversy, as the deed had never been sanctioned
or approved by the county or their proper officers. Instead of
that, it appears that the authorities of the county uniformly
maintained that the possession of the deed for registry was surreptitious and wrongful, and that the title to the lands was still
in the county. They accordingly withheld the lands from taxation during those years; and the complainants charge that the .
treasurer, subsequent to the settlement and 'decree, caused the
lands described inthe two schedules set forth in the record' to
be listed and entered in the tax duplicates, and pretended to
extcnd a computation of taxes, interest, penalties, and costs
thereon, according to the rates of levy of the two preceding
years, amounting to the sum set forth in the record, whereas
the complainants aver that the title was decreed to them at the

126

COUNTY, Em., v. AbiERICAN EIGRANT CO.

[SUp. Ct.

time of the settlement, with the full understanding that no
taxes were payable on the lands for those two years, and that
the acts of the treasurer in listing the lands and assessing the
taxes were without authority of law, and they pray that the
pretended assessment and levy of the taxes may be decreed
to be illegal, null, and void, and that the county treasurer and
his agents and successors may be for ever enjoined from selling
the lands, or in any manner enforcing the collection of said
pretended taxes.
Process was duly issued and served, and the proper authorities of the county appeared and filed an answer, setting up the
following defences: 1. That the complainants are the legal
owners of the lands described in the contract, by virtue of the
deed from the county. 2. That the county had no right to
exempt the lands from taxes. 3. That the agreement was
unauthorized and in violation of the laws of the State, and is
null and void.
Certain admissions of the respondents are also contained in
the answer, which it is important to notice: 1. That the deed
was deposited as an escrow until a mortgage back should be
executed; but the respondents aver that it was the fault of the
complainants that it was not executed, and they insist that the
complainants cannot claim any benefit from their own neglect.
2. That the settlement and decree were made as alleged; but
the respondents aver that the settlement ratified the deed, and
gave complainants a legal title relating back to the date of the
execution of the same. 3. That the officers of the county did
not assess taxes on the lands pending the suit; but the respondents aver that the failure of the officers to do so did not
waive the right of the county to assess the lands and collect the
taxes. 4. That the title to the lands in 'the other schedule is
in the United States; but the respondents aver, that if that
be so, then no sale of the same for taxes will be of any
validity.
Proofs having been duly taken and the parties fully heard,
the court entered a decree in favor of the complainants, and the
respondents appealed to this court.
Enough appears in the pleadings in this case to show that
the deed from the county to the complainants was never

Oct. 1876.]

COUNTY,

ETC.,

v.

ABiERIcAN EMIGRANT

Co.

127

delivered to the grantees until the settlement and decree;
and it is settled law, of universal application, that a deed
takes effect only from the time of delivery, even though it
may have been fully executed at a much earlier period.
Hoplcins v. Leek, 12 Wend. 105; Hardenberg v. Schoonmaker,
2 Johns: 23.
Beyond doubt, the deed of the lands was delivered to the
clerk of the respondents as an escrow, and subject to the condition that it should not be delivered to the granteds until they
gave back a mortgage to secure the full performance of the
agreement under which the deed was executed; but it is
equally clear that the condition required to be fulfilled before
the delivery could be made was never performed, and the rule is
established by repeated decisions, that, where a deed is delivered
as an escrow, nothing passes by the deed unless the condition
is performed. Hinman v. Booth, 21 Wend. 267 ; Green v. Putnarn, 1 Barb. 500; Russell v. Rowland, 6 Wend. 666; Pendleton v. Hughes, 65 Barb. 136; s. c. 53 N. Y. 626.
Cases may be found where it is held that a deed delivered as
an escrow, when the condition is performed, relates back to the
time of its execution ; and that proposition may be correct under
certain circumstances, where the ends of justice require is
application. Beekman v. Frost, 18 Johns. 544; s. c. 1 Johns.
Ch. 288.
Much would depend in such a case upon the intent of the
parties, to be collected frorn the nature of the transaction; but
it is clear that the rule cannot apply in this case, for several
reasons: 1. Because the condition inserted in the instrument
never was performed.
2. Because the county never relinquished their title to the lands until the settlement and decree.
3. Because the county could not assess the-lands while they
remained public property. 4. Because the written agreement
stipulated that no taxes should be levied on the lands until
after the lands should be conveyed to the complainant.
Responsive to that, the respondents suggest that it is the
fault of the complainants that th deed was not delivered; but
it must not be overlooked that it -was the respondents or their
agents who inserted the stipulation in the instrument that it
should be deposite4 as an escrow with their clerk until a

128

COUNTY, ETC., V. AMERICAN EMIGRANT CO.

[Sup. Ct..

mortgage back should be executed to secure the full performance
of the terms of the written agreement.
Nothing is contained in the written agreement to warrant
the respondents in requiring a mortgage back before delivering
the deed; but it is expressly stipulated therein that the respondents will not assess any taxes against the lands until after the
time the lands shall be conveyed to the compla~nants. Nor
does it affect the question that the deed was previously recorded,
as it is clear that the theory of the respondents throughout was
that it was wrongfully procured for registry; and nothing appears to controvert their theory in .that regard. By what means
it was procured does not appear; but it does appear that the
complainants are unable to explain the matter, for the reason
that their agent who transacted the negotiations on their part
is deceased.
Other suggestions 'failing, the respondents contend that the
agreement not to tax the land before the conveyance was made
is without authority of law, and is null and void; but the court
here is not able to concur in that proposition, as the lands were
held by the county in their proprietary right, and as such were
as much subject to bargain and sale as lands held by an individual. Counties have no right to tax public property by the
laws of the State; and the restriction in this case only extended
to the-time the conveyance should be made, in view of which
the better 9pinion is, that,.as between these parties in respect tor
the right of taxation, the title did not pass until the settlement
and decree.
Argument is not required to prove that the- respondents
agreed not to tax the lands before they were conveyed, nor to
prove that the deed was deposited as an escrow, nor that the
taxes were levied by the treasurer. subsequent to the settlement
and decree, for the reason, that all three of these propositions are
admitted by the answer.
Taxes imposed against those lands for the two years preceding
the settlement and decree cannot be sustained in view of those
admissions, especially as it also appears- that the respondents,
early iix.the month of April, 1869, instituted a suit in equity, in
which they set up title to the lands, and prayed for a decree to
set aside the written agreement and the deed, amd that they

Oct. 1876.]

COUNTY, ETC.,

V. AmERICAN EMIGRANT CO.

129

continued to prosecute that suit from the time it was commenced
to the date of the settlement and decree.
Throughout the whole period, the county claimed the feesimple title in these lands, and maintained the theory that the
complainants were not entitled thereto, and that the deed had
been illegally recorded; and it appears that they never occupied
any other position in the controversy until the settlement and
the decree of the Circuit Court, to which the suit was removed
pending the litigation.
By that settlement, the complainants agreed to pay to the
respondents the sum of $2,300 cash, and to pay all costs and
expenses of the suit, including a described portion of the counsel
fees of the respondehts ; and it is not controverted that the complainants fulfilled all the terms of the adjustment.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions, it is clear that the
respondents are estopped to set up .any such claim against the
complainants.
Taken as a wtole, the circumstances disclosed in the record
satisfy the court that the settlement was . nade with .a full
understanding between the p'arties, that no taxes were payable
on the lands for the two years next preceding the date of the
decree, and that the respondents are estopped to set up any
different theory in the present controversy.
Where a municipal corporation sells a tract of land, and their
authorized agents represent that there are no municipal taxes
assessed against the same, neither the municipality nor its proper
officers can collect from the grantees taxes fQr preceding years,
if assessed subsequently to the conveyance. Omissions resulting from inadvertence or mistake of the assessors may doubtless
be corrected, and such an assessment, it is not doubted, is legal,
and may be collected; but good faith forbids such an assessment
as the one before the court, which was made in violation of a
written agreement and of an explicit understanding between the
parties in the adjustment of a pending controversy.
Decided support to the views here expressed is found in the
decisions of the Supreme Court of the State, to which reference
is makle. Iowa Land Co. v. Story County, 36 Iowa, 50. Circumstances substantially similar were disclosed in that case, and
the court say, "We do not stop to inquire what would be the
VOL. 111.

9

CLAFLIN V. ]OUSEMAN,

ASSIGNEE.

[Sup. Ct.

rule respecting liability for taxes as between vendor and purchaser, in cases where the latter, by performance of his contract,
has become the owner, though the legal title is in the former;
because we ground our support of the plaintiff's case upon this
plain rule of fair dealing and the broad principles of equity,
that a party shall not wrongfully withhold the title to property
and the benefits of ownership thereof from one entitled thereto,
and at the same time subject the property to burdens, for the
benefit of the party thus wrongfully withholding tle title." In
other words, the county having during those years denied the
right and title under which the plaintiff claims, is now equitably
estopped from asserting that the plaintiff then had the title in
order to give validity to the burden imposed. -Davidsonv. Follett, 37 Iowa, 220; Adams Co. v. Railroa[d,39 id. 511; Lucas
v. HYart, 5 id. 419; ,Swain v. Scamens, 9 Wall. 274.
Corporations, quite as much as individuals, are held to a
careful adherence to truth and uprightness in their dealings
with other parties ; nor can they be permitted, with impunity, to
involve others in onerous obligations, by their misrepresentations
or concealments, without being held to just respofisibility for
the consequences of their misconduct or bad faith.
-Decree affirmed.

CLAFLI

v. HOUSEmiAN, ASSIGNEE.

1. Under the Bankrupt Act of March 2, 1867 (14 Stat. 517), the assignee might
sue in the State courts to recover the assets of the bankrupt, no exclusive"
jurisdiction having been given to the courts of the United States. Qawre,
whether such exclusive jurisdiction is given by the Revised Statutes,
2. The statutes of the United States are as much the law of the land in any State
as are those of the State; and although exclusive jurisdiction for their
enforcement may be given to the Federal courts, yet where it is not given,
either ekpressly or by necessary implication, the State courts, having competent jurisdiction in other respects; may be resorted to.
3. In such cases, the State courts do not exercise a new jurisdiction conferred
upon them, but their ordinary jurisdiction, derived from their constitution
under the State law.

E

oR to the Supreme Court of the State of New York.

This action was brought in M'fay, 1872, in the New York
Suprem.e Court, county of Kings, by Julius Houseman, as

