HUFF v. DOYLE ET AL.

[Sup. Ot.

prayer for instruction was properly refused. Certain other
prayers for instructions were also presented by the defendants,
which were refused by the court below; but, in the view taken
of the case, it must suffice to say that we are all of the opinion
that the ruling of the court in refusing to give the requested
instructions was correct.
Enough has already been remarked to show that the theory
of the plaintiffs in error, that the contract is prohibited by certain
acts of Congress referred to, cannot be sustained, for the reason
that the contract was a legitimate one for professional services
of an attorney who held no official station at the time the
contract was made, nor at any time during the period he was
engaged in prosecuting the claim.
Exceptions were also taken to numerous detached portions
of the charge of the court; but the remarks already made
render it unnecessary to give those exceptions a separate examination. Such an examination would extend the opinion
unnecessarily; nor is it necessary, as the court is unanimously
of the opinion that the exceptions must all be overruled.
Judgment affirmed.

HuFF v. DOYLE ET AL.
1. The act of Congress of July 23,1866 (14 Stat.218), confirming selections theretofore made by California of any portion of the public domain, divided them
into two classes; namely, one in which they had been made from land surveyed by the United States before the passage of the act, and the other in
which the selected lands had not been so surveyed.
2. Where the surveys had been made before the passage of the act, it was, by
the second section thereof, the duty 6f the State authorities to notify the
local land officer of such selection, where they had not already done so.
Such notice was regarded as the date of such selection.
3. Where the surveys had not yet been made, the State, under the third sectionl,
had the right to treat hcr selection made before the passage of the act as-a
prezernption claim; and the holder of her title was allowed the same time to
prove his claim under the act, after the surveys were filed in the local land-,
.
office, as was allowed to pre-emptors under existing laws.4. By a fair construction of these provisions, and others of this statute, and of
the act of March 3,1853 (10 Stat. 244), the exception in the first section confirming these selections, of lands "held or claimed under a valid Mexican
or Spanish grant," must be determined as of the date when the ctaimant,

Oct.. 1876.]

HUFF v. DOYLE ET AL.

under a State selection, undertakes to prove up his claim after the surveys
have been made and filed, and within the time allowed thereafter to preemptors.
5. If at that date the land selected by the State was excluded from such a grant,
either by judicial decision or by a survey made by the United States, the
claimant may have his claim confirmed.

to the Supreme Court of the State of California.
Submitted on printed arguments by Air. John B. Harmon
for the-plaintiff in error, and by Mr. S. F. Leib, contra.
ERROR

AIR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
California, which brings here for review a judgment of that
cour concerning a title to'land dependent on the act of Congress
granting lands to that State for school purposes, of March 3,
1853, and the act of July 23, 1866, on the same subject.
10 Stat. 244; 14 id. 218.
By the sixth section of the first-mentioned act, the State was
granted every sixteenth and thirty-sixth section of the public
land, for school purposes, with an exception of lands which for
various reasons ought not to be so granted ; and by the se.venth
section, the State was authorized to select other lands in lieu of
any section or part of section sixteen or thirty-six which fell
within any of these exceptions. The act which made these
grants was the first which provided for the extension to California of the system of surveys, sales, and pre-emptidn of public
lands so long established in other States and Territories. No
surveys had then been made; and it was obvious, that, until they
were made, and the precise locality of each township and of the
sixteenth and thirty-sixth sections of the township was thus
ascertained, it could not be known whether they came within
any of the exceptions to the grant, or whether any right of
selection in lieu of them had accrued. The State of California,
impatient of the delay of the United States authorities in making
these surveys, undertook to perform that duty herself; and,
assuming from data furnished by her own surveys that a great
many acres of the sixteenth and thirty-sixth sections were
within one or the other of the exceptions of the granting clause,
for which 'the State was to select other lands, the legislature
authorized selections and locations to be made in lieu thereof,

HUFF V. DOYLE ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

according to State surveys. The land in controversy was so
selected by the State and sold to plaintiff, who settled on it in
1865, and received from the State s certificate of sale.
The officers of the Land Department, when the matter was
brought to their attention, refused to recognize the surveys
made by the State, or to acknowledge the validity of selections
and locations made under the State laws; and as many such
selections and actual settlements under them had been made,
the hardships 'and embarrassments growing out of the action
of the State government caused the passage of the act of
July 23, 1866.
By the first section of that act, it was declared "that in all
cases where the State of California has heretofore made selections of any portion of the public domain, in part satisfaction
of any grant made to said State by act of Congress, and has
disposed of the same to purchasers in good faith under her laws,
the lands so selected shall be, and are hereby, confirmed to said
State."
A proviso excepted out of this confirmation land of variolts
classes, among which is "any land held or claimed under a
-valid Mexican or Spanish grant." Sect. 2 of the act required
the proper land -officers, where the land had been surveyed by
the United States at the date of the act, to examine into these
selections, and, if found to be right, to certify them to the
State; and by the third section, provision was made for the
perfection of these titles in lands not yet surveyed, after the surveys should have been extended over them.
The land claimed by plaintiff belonged to the latter class;
and the official plat of the survey of the township embracing it
was -not filed in the proper land-office of the United States
until June 28, 1871, nearly five years after the passage of the
act, and six years after its selection and location by plaintiff.
As soon as this was done, - to wit, July 10, 1871, - plaintiff
proved up is claim, and the land-office certified the land to the
State of California, as provided by the third section of the act,
and the State thereupon issued to him his patent. It is upon
this title that plaintiff recovered a judgment for the possession of
the land in the inferior court of the State of California against
defendants, whose claim consisted in the facts found by the

Oct. 1876.]

HUFF v. DOYLE ET AL.

court, that, having the qualifications of pre-emptors of the public land, they had, in November, 1870, intruded upon the possession of plaintiff, had made a declaration of their intention to
pre-empt it, and had offered to pay the money, and demanded
a certificate of sale, the land officers refusing both to accept theirmoney and to give them a certificate.
The Supreme Court of California r6versed this judgment, and
ordered a judgment for defendants, on the ground that, at the
time of plaintiff's selection of this land, and of the passage of
the act of 1866, it was claimed under a valid Mexican grant.
To determine the correctness of this ruling, it will be necessary to look into the history of that claim.
It appears that at some time prior to 1860 there was-confirmed to Robert Livermore a grant of two leagues of land,
called Los Pocitas, the out-boundaries of which were given in
the decree of confirmation, and which included the land now in
controversy. In 1865 a survey of this grant was made, which
contained nine leagues, and which was rejected for that reason
by the Commissioner of the General Land-Office in 1868. In
March, 1869, another* survey was made, which contained two
square leagues, and did not include the land in suit; and this
survey was confirmed by the commissioner June 6, 1871. It
will be remembered, that, on the 28th of the same month, the
plat of the government surveys was filed in the local landoffice, and that, twelve days thereafter, plaintiff'presented himself at that office and proved up his claim.
The question for our decision under the facts as found by
the court below, and thus more briefly stated, is, whether the
action of the officers of the Land Department in certifying these
lands to the State as a valid selection of indemnity lands under
the act of 1866 was without authority of law, and therefore
void. There can be no doubt that they were authorizdd to
inquire into the validity of any claim set up under sect. I of
that act, and, in the language of the closing paragraph of
sect. 3, "if found in accordance with sect. 1," to certify the
land to the State. And it may admit of grave doubt, whether
in a suit at law the validity of their action can be impeached.
It certainly cannot be impeached on any other ground found in
this record than that, being part of a valid Mexican claim, the
VOL. I1.

38

562

HUFF v.

DOYLE

ET AL.

[Sup. Ot.

land was expressly excepted from confirmation, and could not
be subjected to it by the act of the land officers in the premises.
It is not to be denied that the facts found show, that, at the
date of the act of 1866, the land claimed by defendant was part
of a tract claimed under a Mexican grant, and that the grant
itself was then, and is still conceded to be, a valid grant. It
was, therefore, "claimed under a valid Mexican grant," within
the literal terms of the statute. And if this literal construction is to prevail, and the fact of its being claimed under a
Mexican grant'is to have reference solely to the date of the statute, the Supreme Court of California was right in its decision.
But we see no reason, in the nature of the relief granted by
this statute, or in the exception of ]and covered by Mexican
claims, which should make the exception cover land to which
no -Mexican claim existed at the time the land officers were to
decide on the validity of the selection of the State. If there
was then no claim, or if it had been judicially determined that
it was not valid, the remedial spirit of the statute required that
t'he bona fide purchaser from the State should be at liberty to
assert his claim to it, as a selection made by the State, and no
principle of public policy was infringed by so doing.
That this was the intention of Congress is fairly deducible
from other parts of the statute.
As we have already said, sect. 2 has reference to lands which
had been surveyed by the government at the date of its passage. As to these lands, it is made "the duty of the proper
authorities of the State, where 'this is not already done, to
notify the register of the United States land-office for the district in wich the land is located of such selection, which
notice shall be regarded as the date of the selection." Now,
suppose that prior to this notification the land had been
claimed as part of a Mexican grant, bat it had been finally
determined that, though the grant itself was valid, it did not
include the land selected, would not the selection -be good ?
How could it be otherwise, when, at the time which the statute
says shall be regarded as the date of the selection, the land was
to all intents and purposes restored to the b.ody of the public
lands of the United States, by ihe terms of a statute on that
,subject? Sect. 18,,act of March 8, 1851 (9Stat. 633).

Oct. 1876.]

HUFF v. DOYLE ET AL.

The reasons why this proposition should prevail as to lands
not surveyed at the date of the act are quite as strong; and
we find, accordingly, that the third section declares that as to
these the selection made under the authority of the State shall
have the same force and effect as the pre-emption rights of a
settler on the unsurveyed land, and that the holder of the State
title shall be allowed the same time after the surveys are made
and the plat filed to prove up his purchase and claim as is
allowed to pre-emptors under existing laws; -" and, if foumd in
accordance with sect; 1 of this act, the land embraced therein
shall be certified over to the State by the Commissioner of the
General Land-Office."
If found then to be in accordaice with sect. 1,'the register
is to examine his claim, the character, the right asserted, and
the certificates under which he claims. He is also to see if it
is land subject to be so selected, or land which is excepted
from the right of selection. If the. papers are right, is he to
go back to some past time, and say this land was part of a
Mexican claim, though not so now, and reject the application?
Or is he to say, Your papers are all right; the land is public
land, and open to your claim? If he should doubt on this
point, he has but to look to the previous section, where Congress has declared, that, though the land may have been actually
selected under State authority years before, yet the date of
selection, for the provisions of that act, shall be determined by
the notice of the fact at the land-office, delivered after the
passage of the statute. See Toland v. Mandell, 38 Cal. 42, 48.
As strongly tending to the same conclusion; we find that by
the sixth section of the act the right of the State to solicit
indemnity for school sections included, or supposed to be
included, in a Mexican grant accrues only when it shall be
found by a final survey of the grant that it does include some
part of a sixteenth or thirty-sixth section.
So, also, as we held at this term in the case of Sherman v.
Buick, supra, 209, that by the seventh section of the act of
1858 the right of selecting indemnity lands for those on which
actual settlements were made must be determined by the
actual sur'vey of the grant, and, of course, could not be exercised
before that time, and that up to that time a valid settlement

-

HUFF V. DbYLE ET AL.

I[Sup. Ct.

could be made which would deprive the State of the land,
,though made on what turned out to be a sixteenth or a thirtysixth section.
In all this we see the purose of Congress to refer the exercise of the right of the State to .select indemnity for school
lands to the condition of the lands for which indemnity is
claimed, as well as those out of which it is sought, at the time
thec official surveys are made and filed in the proper office, or
as soon thereafter as the right is asserted.
There is, in what we have here said, no conflict with the principles laid down in Newhall v. Sanger, 92 U. S. 761.
In that case, the claim under the Mexican grant called
Moquelamos was still in litigation when the road of the companywas located, and when the lands were withdrawn from
public sale. These 'lands were not then public lands within
the meaning of the grant under which the corporation claimed.
Here, as we have attempted to show, the land in controversy was public land at the time at which by the statute the
State was authorized to assert her right of selection. It -is
upon the language of the act of 1866, and its special provisions,
that we hold that the extent of .the Mexican claim having been
determined, and all land outside of the final survey restored to
the body of the, public lands, the State had a right at the time
plaintiff proved up his claim to treat it as public land, and have
the claim confirmed.
Upon these views we are of opinion that the land in controversy was rightfully certified to the State by the land officers,
and that the-title of the plaintiff is perfect.
The judciment of the Supreme Court of the State of California is, therefore, reversed, and the cause remanded with directions to affirm the judgment of the District Court of the Third
Judical District, county of Alameda.

Mi. JuSTIcE DAVIS took no part in the decision of this case.

-

