Oct. 1876.]

WIGGINS V. PEOPLE, ETC., IN UTAH.

be presumed, said this court, until the contrary was made to
appear, that the commissioner did his duty correctly in granting the reissue. What was subsequently said of the character
of the first claim, so far as it conflicts with the construction
here given, does not meet our approval, after the extended consideration the subject has since received.
But, assuming that the reissue is not void for the reasons
stated, the patent is still invalid for want of novelty in the
alleged invention. The use of fat liquor in the treatment of
bark-tanned skins was general with manufacturers for many
years previous to the alleged invention. Testimony to this
effect is given by numerous witnesses. It would subserve no
useful purpose to state this testimony; it is set forth -with
ample fulness in the opinion of the Circuit Court. It is sufficient for us to say. that it is entirely satisfactory to our minds.
-Decreeaffirmed.

WIGGINS v. PEOPLE, ETC., IN UTAH.
1. A writ of error from this court to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah
is allowed by sect. 3 of the act of Congress of June 23, 1874 (18 Stat. 254),
in criminal cases, where the accused has been sentenced to capital punishment, or convicted of bigamy or polygamy.
2. In a trial for homicide, where the question, whether the prisoner or the deceased commenced the encounter which resulted in death, is in any manner
of doubt, it is competent to prove threats of violence against the prisoner made by the deceased, though not brought to the knowledge of the
prisoner.

to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah.
Argued by Mr. George H. Williams for the plaintiff in error,
and by M11r. Solicitor-General Phillips, contra.
ERROR

MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

Sect. 3 of the act of Congress of June 23, 1874 (18 Stat. 254),
allows a writ of error from this court to the Supreme Court of
the Territory of Utah, where the defendant has been convicted
of bigamy-or polygamy, or has been sentenced to death fdr any
crime. The present writ is brought under that statute to obtain
a review of a sentence of death against plaintiff in error for tle
VOL. Iix.

80

WIGGINS V. PEOPLE, ETC., IN UTAH.

[Sup. Ct.

murder of John Kramer, commonly called Dutch John, in Salt
Lake City. The only error insisted upon by counsel, who argued
this case orally, was the rejection of testimony offered by the
prisoner, as shown by the'following extract from the bill of
exceptions :"5The defendant, on the trial of this cause, called Robert Heslop.
as a witness in his defence, who testified: "That, just a short time before the shooting, the deceased showed
him a pistol which he (deceased) then had upon his person. Deceased, at this time, was sitting on a box on the opposite side of
the street from the Salt Lake House, and in front of Reggels's
store.
"The prosecuting attorney admitted that this was after the
deceased was ejected from defendant's saloon.
"Whereupon the counsel for the defendant asked witness the
following questions: "What, if any, threats did the deceased make against the defendant at this time? which was objected to by the prosecuting
attorney, for the reason it was immaterial.
"The objection was sustained by the court, and the defendant,
by his counsel, then and there duly excepted.
"Defendant's counsel then asked witness, what, if any thing, did
deceased then say concerning the defendant.
"(Objected to by prosecuting attorney as incompetent.)
"Defendant's counsel thereupon stated that they expected to
prove by this witness that in that conversation, a short time prior
to the killing, the deceased, in the hearing of said witness, made
the threat that he would kill the' defendant before he went to
bed on the night of the homicide, which threats we cannot bring
home to theknowledge of the defendant.
"Which was objected to by the counsel for the prosecution,
because it was incompetent.
"The objection was sustained by the courtrto which the defendant then and there excepted.
"This witness, and several others, testified that the deceased's
general character was bad, and that he was a dangerous, violent,
vindictive, and brutal man."
Although there is some conflict of 'authority as to the admission of threats of the deceased against the prisoner in a case of
homicide, where the threats had not been communicated to him,

Oct. 1876.]

WIGGINS V. PEOPLE, ETC., IN UTAH.

there is a modification of the doctrine in more recent times,
established by the decisions of courts of high authority, which
is very well stated by Wharton, in his work on Criminal Law,
ยง 1027: "Where the question is as to what was deceased's
attitude at the time of the fatal encounter, recent threats may
become relevant to show that this attitude was one hostile to
the defendant, even though such threats were not communicated
to defendant. The evidence is not relevant to show the quo
aninzo of the defendant, but it may be relevant to show that, at
the time of the meeting, the deceased was seeking defendant's
life." Stokes-v. People of NAew Fork; 53 N. Y. 174; Keener v.
State, 18 Ga. 194; Campbell v. People, 16 111. 18; Holler
v. State, 37 Ind. 57; People v. Arnold, 15 Cal. 476; .People v.
Scroggins, 37 id. 676.
Counsel for the governiment, conceding this principle to be
sound, sustains the ruling of the court below, on the ground
that there is no evidenee in the case to show any hostile movement or attitude of the deceased towards the prisoner at -the
time of the fatal shot, and that there is conclusive evidence to
the contrary. In support of this latter position, he relies on
the testimony of Thomas Dobson, the only witness of the meeting which resulted in the death of deceased by a pistol-shot
from defendant.
Before criticisiag Dobson's testimony, it is necessary to state
some preliminary matters.
It appears that, on the night of the homicide, the deceased
and a man of similar character, called Bill Dean, got into a
quarrel, in a drinking-saloon kept by defendant, in which they
both drew pistols. Defendant interposed, and took their pistols
from them, and turned them out of his saloon -by different
doors. He gave Dean his pistol as he turned him out, and
asserts that he also ieturned the deceased his pistol; but of
this there is doubt. Shortly after this, he started homewards,
and fell in company with Dobson, who was a night watchman
of Salt Lake City. As they-werit along the street, Dean was
discovered in the recess of a doorway on the sidewalk with a
pistol in his hands, and defendant went up to him, took it away
from him, and he ran down the street. Passing on, Dobson
and defendant came in front of a hotel, the Salt Lake House,

WIGGINS V. PEOPLE, ETC., IN UTAH.

[Sup. Ct.

where the homicide occurred, of which Dobson, the only witness, tells his story thus:"As I came down street, about two o'clock in the morning, I
saw Dutch John sitting on the carriage-steps of the Salt Lake
House, with his face resting on his hands, appkrently in a stupor
or asleep. Wiggins, the defendaht, was with me. He (Wiggins)
jumped to my rear, and immediately the firing commen.ed. I do
not know, and cannot tell, who fired the first shot. At the first
report, I turned round and saw the blaze of the second shot from
a pistol in the hands of Wiggins. I had advanced to the carriagesteps, and said, 'Jack, don't kill him.' Wiggins then jumped on
carriage-steps and fired another shot, which passed right by in front
of me and into the body of Dutch John. Dutch John grabbed me
around the legs, and we fell over the steps into the street. When
I turned and saw the first shot from Viggins's pistol, I saw Dutch
John's hands raised, and heard him cry out, ' Don't kill me; I am
not armed.' Immediately after the firing ceased, Wiggins stooped
down as if to pick up something, and when he raised up he had
something in his left hand; but I cannot tell whether it was a
pistol or not. At the same time, Wiggins made the remark to the
deceased, 'You wanted to kill me,' or 'You tried to kill me.' I am
not sure which expression was used."
If we are to believe implicitly all that is here said by this
witness, we do not see in it conclusive evidence that defendant
fired the first shot, and that no previous demonstration was
made by deceased. On the contrary, he says he does not know,
and cannot tell, who fired the first shot. He does say, that,
when the vision of-. Dutch John met their eyes, the defendant
"jumped. behind witness, and immediately " (that is, just after)
"the firing commenced." He also says, that, immediately after
the firing ceased, defendant stooped down as if to pick up something, and arose with something in his hand.
We 'do not think that this statement proves at all, certainly
not conclusively, that deceased did not fire the first shct. Either
there must have been some reason for defendant's jumping behind witness, and he must have picked up a pistol which fell
from the hands of deceased, or he was guilty of consummate
acting, for the purpose .of deceiving witness, and making evidence to defend'himself from the charge of a murder which he
intended to commit.

Oct. 1876.]

WIGGINS V. PEOPLE, ETC., IN UTAH.

It is difficult to believe that, on a sudden encounter, any one
would have such cool deliberation; and it is much more reasonable to believe that the seeking of safety, by jumping behind
the witness, was caused by some movement or other evidence
of hostile intent by deceased which escaped the less vigilant
eye of witness, and that it was the display of the pistol which
the defendant afterwards picked up. This latter view is supported by other testimony, to be presently noticed.
But it is pertinent here to remark, that both the effect of
this witness's testimony and his credibility were to be weighed
by the jury, and that doubt was thrown on the latter by showing, that, in the preliminary examination, he had made statements at variance with what he now stated, which were more
favorable to defendant.
Take all these together, and we think the court had no right
to assume that it was beyond doubt that defendant had commenced the assault, which resulted in death, by firing the first
shot, without any cause, real or apparent. In this we are confirmed by other parts of the testimony displayed in the bill of
exceptions.
It is nowhere asserted that defendant fired more than three
shots. A witness, however, who was within hearing, swears
positively that he heard four shots. In agreement with this,
it is proved, without contradiction, that when defendant was
arrested, immediately after the shooting, three pistols were
found on him. Of one of these, three barrels were empty; of
another, one; and'the third was fully loaded. The police-officer
who arrested defendant says of these pistols, "The one identified as Dutch John's had one chamber empty; the one identified as Bean's had three chambers empty; and the derringer
was loaded." It is a fair inference that the three empty barrels were those he had discharged at deceased, and that the
other was the one he had picked up after the shooting, which
had been in the hands of deceased.
Whence comes the fourth shot, and who emptied the chamber of deceased's pistol? That deceased had a pistol with him
is a concession made by the prosecuting attorney on the trial.
It will be seen, in the extract from the bill of exceptions first
given, that the witness, Heslop, testifies positively, that, just a

WIGGINS V. PEOPLE, ETC., IN UTAH.

[Sup. Ct.

short time before the shooting, the deceased showed him a pistol, which he then had on his person, while sitting on a box on
the side of the street opposite the scene of the homicide; and
the -prosecution admitted that this was after the deceased had
been ejected from the saloon.
Here, then, was a man who had, a few hours or minutes
before, had a difficulty, in which pistols were drawn; who -was
known to be of desperate and vindictive character; who had
shown a witness a pistol within a few minutes preceding the
fatal enconter, and that pistol was, after the encounter, picked
up on the sidewalk, where it occurred, with a chamber empty.
Also, strong -evidence to show that one more shot was fired than
defendant had fired, and the probability that it came from the
pistol of deceased at that time.
lNow, when, under all these circumstances, the witness, and
the only witness who was present at the encounter, swears that
he cannot tell where the first shot came from, though lie knows
that defendant only fired three, it must be very apparent, that
if the person, to whom the deceased exhibited that pistol a few
minutes before the shooting, had been permitted to tell the jury
that deceased then said, "he Would kill defendant before he
went to bed that night," it would have tended strongly to show
where that first shot came from, and how that pistol, with one
chamber emptied, came to be found on the ground. This testimony might, in the state of mind produced on the jury by the
other evidence we have considered, have turned the scale in
favor'of defendant. At all events, we are of opinion that in
that condition of things it was relevant to the issue, and should
have been admitted.
Judgment reversed, with directions to set aside the verdict, and
grant a new trial.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD dissenting.

Murder is the charge preferred against the prisoner, which,
at common law, is defined to be, when a person of sound memory
and discretion unlawfully killeth any reasonable creature in
being, and in the peace of the State, with malice aforethought,
either express or implied. Modern statutes defining murder in
many cases affix degrees to the offence, according to the nature

Oct. 1879.]

WIGGINS v. PEOPLE, ETC., IN UTAH.

471

and aggravation of the circumstances under which the act of
homicide is committed.
Offences against the lives and persons of individuals are
defined by the statutes of Utah, as follows: Whoever kills any
human being, with malice aforethought, the statute of the
Territory enacts, is guilty of murder; and the succeeding section
of the same act provides that all murder perpetrated by poison
or by lying in wait, or by any other kind of wilful, deliberate,
and premeditate killing, or which is committed in the perpetration, or attempt to perpetrate, any one of the offences therein
enumerated, is murder of the first degree, and shall be punished
with death. Laws Utah, 51, c. 21, tit. 2, sects. 4, 5.
Pursuant to that enactment, the grand jury of the third
judicial district, in due form of law, preferred an indictment
against the prisoner for the murder of John Kramer, charging
that he, the prisoner, did, at the time and in the manner and by
the means therein described, feloniously, wilfully, deliberately,
premeditatedly, and with malice aforethought, kill and murder
the deceased, contrary to the form of the statute in such case
made and provided, and against the peace and dignity of the
people of the United States resident in the said Territory.
Sufficient appears to show that the prisoner was arraigned in
due form of law, and that he pleaded to the indictment that he
was not guilty, as required by the statute of the Territory; that,
material witnesses for the prisoner being absent, the indictment
was on his motion continued to the next term of the court.
Both parties being ready at the succeeding term of the court,
the jury was duly impanelled, and sworn well and truly to
try the issue, as provided by law. Witnesses were called and
examined by the prosecution and for the defence, and the
cause was regularly committed to the jury having the prisoner
in charge.
None of these ptoceedings are called in question; and it
appears that the jury retired, and, having duly considered the
case, returned into court, and gave their verdict that the prisoner
is guilty of murder in the first degree. Sentence in due form
of law was rendered by the court, as more fully appears in the
record; and the prisoner excepted to the rulings and instructions
of the court, and appealed to the Supreme Court of the Territory,

472'

WIGGINS V. PEOPLE, ETC., IN UTAH.

[Sup. Ct.

as he had by law a right to do, where the judgment of the subordinate court was affirined. Laws Utah, 66, c. 31, sect. 5.
Error lies from that court to the Supreme Court in criminal
cases, where the accused ha been sentenced to capital punishment; and the record shows that the prisoner sued out a writ of
error, and removed the cause into this court. 18 Stat. 254.
Four errors are assigned in the transcript: 1. That the court
erred in affirming the judgment of the District Court. 2. That
the court erred in holding that the affidavit offered to procure
a continuance- was insufficient. 8. That the court erred in
sustaining the ruling of the District Court, that the uncommunicated threats of the deceased, made in connection with the
exhibition of a pistol a short time before the homicide, were
inadmissible in evidence to the jury. 4. That the court erred
in overruling the exceptions of the prisoner to the instructions
given to the jury by the District Court.
Two of the errors assigned - to wit, the second and fourthhaving been abandoned here in the argument for the prisoner,
the re-examination of the case will be confined to the third
assigned error, as the only remaining one which deserves any
special consideration,
Expert testimony, jnot in any way contradicted, was introduced
by the prosecutor to the effect that the witness saw the deceased
immediately after he came to his death, and he testified that he
made a post-mortem examination of the body the next day;
that the deceased received two pistol wounds; that one shot
struck him in the side, a little back of a middle line from the
hollow of the arm down and just at the border of the ribs; and
the witness stated that he exAmined that Wound, but tt~t he did
not trace the ball, as the other wound was the' one that proved
fatal; that the other shot struck him in the chin, and that,
ranging downward, it cut the external jugular vein, the ball
burying itself in the muscles of the shoulder, and -that the
deceased bled to death from that wound; and the witness
added, tg the effect that from the course the ball took, and the
wounds it made in its course, the deceased must have been
sitting at the time with his head bowed down and resting on
his breast.
Death ensued immediately; and the record discl6ses what

Oct. 1876.]

WIGGINS V. PEOPLE, ETC., IN UTAH.

immediately preceded the homicide and what occurred at the
time it was committed. Beyond doubt, the homicide occurred
about two o'clock in the morning; and it is equally certain that
it was effected by the described shots from a pistol. Prior to
that time,- say about one o'clock or a little later, - the deceased,
with six or seven other persons, was in the saloon of the prisoner,
and it appears that the deceased and two of the others had a
difficulty, and that one of them was struck over the bead in the
affray. Revolvers were drawn by the deceased and one Bean,
when the prisoner interfered and took the pistols from both of
them, and in the scuffle struck the deceased over the head.
He then put Bean out of the back-door, gave him his pistol,
and told him to go home; and he put the deceased out of the
front-door, and told him to go home. Half an hour or more
later the prisoner came down the street with one of the witnesses
for the prosecution, and when they arrived in front of the Salt
Lake House the witness states that he saw the deceased sitting
on the carriage-steps of the hotel, with his face resting on his
hands, apparently in a stupor ot asleep; that the prisoner
jumped to the rear of the witness, and that the firing immediately commenced; that the witness did not know, and cannot
tell, who fired the first shot; that at the first report he, the
witness, turned round and saw the blaze of the second shot
from a pistol in the hands of the prisoner. Witness advanced
to the carriage-steps, and he testifies that he said to the prisoner,
Jack, don't kill him," to which it seemns no response was given.
Instead of that, the prisoner then jumped to the carriage-steps
and fired another shot, which, as the witness states, passed
right in front of him into; the body of the deceased. Something
Inay be inferred as to its effect, from the fact that the deceased
raised his hands, as the witness states, and that he heard him
say, "Don't kill me, I am not armed." Immediately after the
firing ceased the prisoner stooped down as if to pick up something, and when he rose up the witness noticed that he had
something in his left hand, but the witness is not able to state
what it was.
Three witnessess testify that there were three shots fired in
rapid succession in front of the hotel, and one of them states
that he heard a fourth shot farther down the street. Two of

WIGGINS V. PEOPLE, ETC., IN UTAH.

ISup. Ct.

the witnesses concur that the first shot ranged from east to
west, and that the range of the other two bore a little to the
north of west.
Several witnesses were examined for the defence, and one of
them testified that the deceased, when he was put out of the
saloon and told to go home, said he would go if the prisoner
would give his gun, and that the prisoner pushed, him out of
the door and banded him his pistol, and that the deceased
remarked, "I will make it hot fox you.' - Testimony was also
given by another witness called for the defence, to the effect
that the deceased, after be was ejected. from the saloon, showed
the witness a pistol when he was sitting in front of a store
opposite the Salt Lake House.
Two questions-were asked the witness, as follows: 1. What,
if any, threats did the deceased make against the prisoner ?
2. What, if any thing, did the deceased say concerning the
prisoner ?
Objection was made to each question, and both were excluded
by the court, and the prisoner excepted to the respective rulings.
Had the questions been admitted, the prisoner expected to prove
that the deceased made the threat that he would kill the prisoner
before he went to bed that night; but the defence admitted
that the evidence would not show that the prisoner had knowledge of the threat at the time of the killing. Due exception
was taken to the ruling, which is the basis of the assignment
of error not waived by the prisoner. Evidence was also
introduced by the defence that the general character of the
deceased was bad, and that he was a dangerous, violent, and
brutal man.
Subsequent to the affray in the saloon, and before the homicide, the deceased had a conversation with another witness
called and examined by the prosecution. He said that the
prisoner had taken his pistol from him and beat him over
the head with it, and it appears that he showed the witness
the wounds in his head. About an hour or less after that interview they met again, in front of the hotel, and walked up the
street together, and in the course of the conversation the witness asked him if he was armed, and the deceased gave the witness' very positive assurance that he was not, that he had no

Oct. 1876.]

WIGGINS V. PEOPLE, ETC., IN UTAH.

weapon about him except a pocket-knife, which he showed to
the witness. Presently the deceased left and went down the
street, and the witness, in about a minute, started in the same
direction, and as he passed the saloon where the affray occurred
the prisoner came out and commenced conversing with the witness. Among other things, he said that the deceased and Bean
had a difficulty in his saloon, and that he took their pistols
away from them and beat them over the head with the pistols;
that he put one of them out of the back-door and the other out of
the front-door ; that he gave Bean iack his pistol, and told him
that they could not have any trouble in the saloon; that if there
was to be any killing there, he was going to do it himself. At
that stage of the conversation the witness asked him what he
did with the pistol of the deceased, and the witness states that
the prisoner pulled back the lapel of his coat, and said, "I have
it here." Immaterial matters are omitted. Suffice it to say,
the prisoner proceeded down the street, and the witness soon
followed; and when the latter got around Godbe's corner he
heard a shot fired, then he turned and ran back towards the
hotel, and when he turned the corner he saw the flash and heard
the report of two other shots, and when he got in front of Hale's
saloon he heard another shot farther down the street.
Four shots were heard; and the witness, who was a policeofficer, states that when he came in front of the hotel he was
requested to arrest the prisoner, and that he ran towards the corner where the prisoner was crossing and called to him to stop,
and that he came back, and that they started up the street,
when the following conversation ensued: "I said, ' Jack, I guess
you have killed Dutch John.' He said, 'If I haven't, I will.'
When they got in front of the hotel, I asked him for his
pistol. He handed me one, saying, ' That is Bill Bean's;' and
another, ' That is Dutch John's;' and a third one, a single-barrelled derringer, and said, ' This is mine.'" One chamber was
empty in the pistol identified as Dutch John's, and three chambers were empty in the one identified as Bean's, and the
derringer was loaded.
Questions of the kind involved in the single assignment of
error to be re-examined cannot be understandingly determined
without a clear view of what the state of the case was at the

WIGGINS V. PEOPLE, ETC., 11; UTAH.

[Sup. Ct.

time the ruling was made, and inasmuch as it is the judgment
of the Supreme Court of the Territory to which the writ of
error is addressed, it seems to be just and right that the reasons which that court assigned for affirming the judgment of the
subordinate court should receive due consideration.
Enough appears to show that the prisoner insisted that the
evidence of uncommunicated threats should have been admitted, because there is a conflict in the testimony as to who
fired the first shot, and that the evidence of the threats, if it
had been admitted, would have aided the jury in determining
that question. Influenced by that suggestion, the first step of
the court, apparently, was .to examine the evidence reported in
the transcript; and, having come to the conclusion that there
is no conflict in the evidence as to wvho fired the first shot, they
decided that the ruling of the District Court excepted to, in
excluding the two questions as to the threats, is correct.
Introductory to that conclusion, they find the facts to be,
that the deceased was sitting upon a carriage-step in front of
the hotel, with his hands up to his face and his head bowed
down, apparently in a stupor or asleep, as the prisoner and the
night-watch came near, and that the prisoner, as they were passing, jumped behind the witness, and that the firing immediately
commenced, the testimony of two witnesses being that the firing
was from east to west, and that the prisoner was east of the
deceased. Obviously, they regarded the statement of the witness, that he did not know who fired the first shot, as merely
negative testimony; for they proceed to state that the positive
testimony of the two witnesses, that the firing was from east to
west, showed that it was impossible that the deceased should
have fired the first shot.
In the next place, they advert to the statement that the
prisoner stooped-down, just after the shooting, as if to pick up
something, and to the testimony of one of his witnesses, that he
exhibited a pistol shortly before his death; and they remark,
that the testimony, if no other facts were found, might tend to
prove that the deceased had a pistol in his possession, but that
it would not be sufficient to raise a doubt as to who fired the
first shot.
E9ven conceding the truth of the iestimony, they still were of

Oct. 1876.]

WIGGINS V. PEOPLE, ETC., IN UTAH.

the opinion that the prisoner was the aggressor; bat they proceeded to say that They did not think that the deceased even
had a pistol, and gave their reasons for the conclusion, as follows: "His pistol was in the bands of the prisoner just before
and just after the killing, and if the deceased had a pistol, as
one witness testifies, shortly before his death, it is evident that
he did not have it when he was killed, for after the first shot
he threw up his arms and said, 'Do not kill me, I am unarmed,' a thing which it is not reasonable to suppose he would
have said if he had just fired the first shot, and, besides, no
such pistol was found on his person or near him after the
killing." "If the prisoner had picked up an additional pistol,
it would certainly have been found upon him; but such was not
the fact;" and they add, that "this second pistol, if any existed, could not have been in the possession of the deceased
when he was killed."
Suppose the facts to be as found by the Supreme Court of the
Territory, then it follows that there was no evidence in the case
tending to show that the deceased was the aggressor, or that
the act of homicide was perpetrated in self-defence, within the
principles of the criminal law as understood and administered
in any jurisdiction where our language is spoken.
Homicide, apparently unnecessary or wilful, is presumed to
be malicious, and, of course, amounts to murder, unless the
contrary appears from circumstances of alleviation, excuse, or
justification; and it is incumbent upon the prisoner to make out
such circumstances to the satisfaction of the jury, unless they
arise from the evidence produced against him by the prosecution. Fost. Cr. L. 255; 1 East, P. C. 224; 4 Bl. Com. 201;
1 Russ., C. & M. (4th ed.) 483.
Cases arise, as all agree, where a person assailed may, without retreating, oppose force to force, even to the death of the
assailant; and other cases arise in which the accused cannot
avail himself of the plea of self-defence, without showing that
he retreated as far as he could with safety, and then killed the
assailant only for the preservation of his own life. Fost. Cr.
L. 275; 1 East, P. C. 277; 4 BI. Com. 184.
Courts and text-writers have not always stated the rules of
decision applicable in defences of the kind in the same forms of

WIGGINS V. PEOPLE, ETC., IN UTAH.

[Sup. Ct.

expression. None more favorable to the accused have been promulgated anywhere than those which were adopted seventy years
ago, in the trial of Selfridge for manslaughter. Pamph.-Rep. 160.
Three propositions were laid down ii that case: 1. That a
man who, in the lawful pursuit of his business, is attacked by
another, under circumstances which denote an intehtion to take
away his life or do him some enormous bodily harm, may lawfully kill the assailant, provided he use all the means in his
power otherwise to save his own life or prevent ihe intended
harm, such as retreating as far as he can, or disabling his adversary without killing him, if it be in his power. 2. That
when the attack upon him is so sudden, fierce, and violent, that
a retreat would not diminish but increase his danger, he may
instantly kill his adversary without retreating at all. 3. That
when, from the nature of the attack, thdre is reasonable ground
to believe that there is a design to destroy his life or to commit
any felony upon his person, the killing the assailant will be
excusable homicide, although it should afterwards appear that
no felony was intended.
Learned jurists excepted at the time to the third proposition,
as too favorable to the accused; but it is safe to affirm that the
legal profession have come to the conclusion that it is sound
law, in a case where it is applicable. " Support to that proposition is found in numerpus cases of high authority, to a few of
which reference will be made.
When one without fault is attacked by another, under such
circumstances as to furnish reasonable ground for apprehending
a design to take away his life or do him some great bodily
harm, and there is reasonable ground for believing the danger
imminent that such design will be accomplished, the assailed
may safely act upon the appearances and kill 'the assailant, if
that be necessary to avoid the apprehended danger; and the
killing will be justified, although it may afterwards turn 9ta"
that the appearances were false, and that there-was not ih faot- either'design to do him serious injury, or danger that it woA
be done. Shorter v. People, 2 Comst. 197'; People v. "VcJe&d,
1 Hill, 420"; 1 Hawk. P. C., ch. 9, sect. 1, p. 79.
Two other cases decided in the sam State have adopted the
same rule of decision, and it appears to be well founded in rea-

Oct. 1876.]

WIGGINS V. PEOPLE, ETC., IN UTAH.

son and justice. Pattersonv. People, 46 Barb. 635; People v.
Sullivan, 3 Seld. 400; State v. Sloan, 47 Mo. 612; Whart.
on Homicide, 212; State v. Baker, 1 Jones (N. C.), 272;
Com. v. Drum, 58 Penn. St. 9.
Uiless the party has reasonable ground of apprehension at
the time, the justification will fail; it being settled law that
a bare fear, unaccompanied by any overt act indicative of the
supposed intention, will not warrant the party entertaining
such fears in killing the other party by way of precaution, if
there be no actual danger at the time. 1 East, P. C. 272;
Ros. Crim. Ev. (7th Am. ed.) 768; State v. Scott, 4 Ired. 409;
State v. Harris,4 Jones, 190; Dill v. State, 25 Ala. 15; Dyson
v. State, 26 Miss. 362; Holmes v. State, 23 Ala. 24; Carrollv.
State, 23 id. 33.
Two grounds are assumed fn support of the proposition that'
the evidence of previous threats ought to have been admitted:
1. That it would have confirmed the other evidence introduced
by the prisoner to prove that he committed the act of homicide
in self-defence. 2. That it would have aided the jury in determining -which of the parties fired the first shot.
Remarks already made are sufficient to show that a bare fear
of danger to life, unaccompanied by any overt act or manifestation indicative of a felonious intent to that effect, will not justify the person entertaining such fears in killing the supposed
assailant. Such a defence is not made out, unless all the conditions of the proposition before explained concur in the immediate circumstances which attend the act of homicide.
When a person apprehends that another, manifesting by his
attitude a hostile intention, is about to take his life, or to do
him enormous bodily harm, and there is reasonable ground for
believing the danger imminent that such design will be accoaplished, he may, if no other practicable means of escape are at
hand, oppose force by force, and may even kill the assailant, if
that be necessary to avoid the apprehended danger; but he
must act and decide as to the necessity and the force of the
circumstances at his peril, and with the understanding that his
conduct is subject to judicial investigation and review.
Apply that rule to the case before the court, and it is clear
that there was no evidence in the case tending to show that

WIGGINS V. PEOPLE, ETC., IN UTAH.

[Slip. Ct.

the prisoner killed the deceased in self-defence. Proof to that
effect is entirely wanting, and every attending circumstance
disproves the theory, and shows that such a defence, if it was
set up in the court below, was utterly destitute of every pretence of foundation, as appears -from the following circumstances: 1. That the prisoner was not alone. 2. That when
he, in company with the night-watchman, approached the
hotel, the deceased was sitting on the steps, asleep or in a
stupor, apparently unaware of their approach. 3. That the
prisoner might have passed on, turned back, or stood still in
perfect safety. 4. That if he feared any thing, his needful
protection was at hand. 5. That the deceased neither spoke
nor moved, and was as harmless as if he had been inanimate
matter. 6. That the prisoner, better than any one else except
the sleeping man, knew that the deceased was unarmed, because he, the prisoner, had the pistol of the deceased in his own
pocket. 1 Gabb. Cr. L. 496.
Viewed in the light of the attending circumstances, it is
amazing that any one can come to the conclusion that there is
any evidence tending to show that the prisoner, as a reasonable
being, could have believed that it was necessary to take the
life of the deceased in order to save his own life, or to save
himself from enormous bodily harm. Logue v. Com., 38 Penn.
St. 265.
Stronger evidence of express malice is seldom or -never exhibbited, as appears from the fact that he continued to fire after
the wounded man tlhrew up his hands and cried out, " Don't
kill me, I am unarmed," and also from the fact that when the
police-officer remarked to him, " Jack, I guess you have killed
Dutch John," he said, " If I haven't, I will."
Testimony merely confirmatory of a proposition, wholly unsupported by-other evidence, is not admissible as substantive
evidence. Grant that, and still it is. insisted by the prisolier
that the evidence of previous threats made by the deceased
should have been admitted to confirm the evidence inLroduced
by the prisoner, to prove that the deceased fired the first shot.
Mere theories are not entitled to consideration, unless they
find some support in the evidence. There is no evidence in
the case tending to show that the deceased fired the first shot,

Oct. 1876.]

WIGGINS V. PEOPLE, ETC., IN UTAH.

or that he fired at all, or that he manifested any intention to
offer any violence whatever to the prisoner. Two -witnesses
testify that the prisoner, when he jumped behind the nightwatchman, was east of the deceased, and that the range of the
firing was from east to the west, fully justifying the conclusion
of the court below that it is impossible that the deceased should
have fired the first shot.
Better reasons for the admissibility of the evidence must be
given than those suggested in the preceding propositions, else
the assignment of errors cannot be sustained, as it is clear that
the other evidence in the case discloses no real theory of defence
which the excluded testimony would tend to confirm.
Some stress is laid upon the fact that one witness testified
that the deceased showed him a pistol after he was ejected from
the saloon; but the answer to that, given by the court below,
is quite satisfactory, which is, that the pistol of the deceased
was in the possession of the prisoner just before and immediately after the killing, and that if the deceased had a pistol, as
the witness testified, it is evident he did not have it when he
was killed, for after the first shot he threw up his hands, and
said, ,"Don't kill me, I am unarmed."
Declarations of the
kind made in articulo mortis are competent evidence; and, there
being nothing in the case to contradict the statement, it is
entitled to credit. 1 Greenl. Ev., sect. 156; Ros. Crim. Ev.
(7th ed.) 30.
Four shots were fired; and when the plisoner was arrested,
immediately after the homicide, he gave up three pistols to the
officer, - his own, the deceased's, and Bean's. There was one
empty chamber in the deceased's pistol, and three empty chambers in Bean's, showing that the prisoner had been in no danger throughout, except from the multiplicity of fire-arms which
he had in his own pockets.
Attempt is next made in argument to show that evidence of
previous threats. made by the deceased is admissible in behalf
of the prisoner, even though he did not introduce any other evidence which it tends to confirm, the suggestion being that the
modern decisions sapport that proposition.
Criminal homicide, in order that it may amount to murder,
must have been perpetrated with malice aforethought; and the
VOL. 111.

81

482

WIGGINS V. PEOPLE, ETC., IN UTAH.

[S9up. 0t.

prosecution, to prove the ingredient of malice, may introduce
evidence of lying in wait, antecedent menaces, former grudges,
or any formed design or concerted scheme to do the deceased
bodily harm. M-'.ice is the essential criterion by which murder is distinguished from manslaughter, and of course it must
be charged in the indictment and proved at the trial. Acts,
conduct, and declarations of the kind, if done or made by the
prisoner, are clearly admissible when offered by the prosecution; but the case is generally different when the evidence is
offered in respect to the deceased.
Years ago evidence was offered, in a case of manslaughter,
to show that the deceased was well known by the defendant
and others as a drunken, quarrelsome man; but the court
excluded the testimony, holding to the effect that the evidence
was immaterial, as it constituted no defence to the accused.
State v. .Field, 14 Me. 244.
Later, the defendant in another jurisdiction offered evidence
to prove that the deceased was a man of great muscular
strength, practised in seizifig persons by the throat in a peculiar way, which would render them helpless and shortly deprive
them of life; -but the court excluded the evidence, holding that
the only evidence which was relevant and'material was the
manner in which the deceased assaulted the defendant at the
time of the homicide. Com. v. l3[ead, 12 Gray, 169.
Decided cases, too numerous for citation, are reported, in
which it is held that evidence of the bad character of the
deceased is not admissible in an indictment for felonious homicide, for the reason that it cannot have any effect to excuse or
palliate the offence. Reported cases of an exceptional character may be found where it is held that evidence of the dangerous character of the deceased may be admitted to confirm other
evidence offered by the prisoner, to show that the killing was
in self-defence. 2 Bishop, Grim. Proced. (2d ed.) sect. 627.
Difficult questions also arise in other cases, as to the admissibility of previous threats made by the deceased. Judges and
text-writers generally agree that such threats, not communicated to the prisoner, are not admissible evidence for the defence, where the charge is felonious homicide.
Courts of justice' everywhere agree that neither the bad

Oct. 1876.]

WIGGINS V. PEOPLE, ETC., IN UTAH.

character of the deceased nor any threats that he may have
made forfeits his right to life, until, by some actual attempt to
execute his threats, or by some act or demonstration at the time
of the killing, taken in connection witk such character and
threats, he induces a reasonable belief on the part of the slayer
that it is necessary to deprive him of life in order to save his
own or to prevent some felony upon his person. Prichett v.
State, 22 Ala. 39; Com. v. Hilliard,2 Gray, 294.
Exceptional cases arise where it is held that the evidence
should be received as confirmatory of other evidence in the case
tending to support the theory that the killing was in selfdefence. Cases of that character may be found where courts
have ruled that evidence of the kind may be admitted, even
though the prisoner had no knowledge of the same at the time
of the alleged felonious homicide; but there is not a well-considered case to be found anywhere, in which it is held that
evidence of previous threats is admissible as substantive proof
that the act of homicide was committed in self-defence, nor
which shows that such evidence is admissible for any purpose,
whether the threats were known or unknown to the prisoner,
except to confirm or explain other evidence in the case, tending
to justify or excuse the homicidal act, as having been committed
in opposing force to force in defence of life, or to avoid enormous
bodily harm. 2 Whart. Cr. L. (6th ed.) 1020; 1 Hale,
P. C. 481.
Provided the uttering of the threats was known to the
prisoner, the tendency of modern decisions is to admit the
evidence, even if the other evidence to support the theory of
self-defence is slight, and to exclude it in all cases where the
threats have not been communicated, unless the circumstances
tend strongly'to inculpate the deceased as the first aggressor.
People v. Lamb, 2 Keyes, 466; Powell v. State, 19 Ala. 577;
Dupree v. State, 33 id. 380.
Examples, almost without number, are found in the reported
cases, which support those propositions, to a few of which
reference will be made.
Violent threats were made by the deceased- against the
prisoner in the case of Stokes v. People, 53 N. Y. 174; and the
court held that- proof of the same was admissible, whether

WIGGINS V. PEOPLE, ETC., IN UTAH.

[Sup. Ct.

known to the prisoner or n-t, inasmuch as other evidence had
,been given making it a question for the jury whether the
homicidal act was or was not perpetrated by the prisoner in
defending himself against an attempt of the deceased to take
his life or to commit a felony upon his person.
Authorities to show that fear only is not sufficient to justify
the taking of the life of another have already been referred to,
of which there are many more. State v. Collins, 32 Iowa. 38;
Whart. Homicide, 407.
Pursuant to that rule, it was held, in the case of Neweomb v.
State, 37 Miss. 400, that the belief on the part of the accused
that the deceased designed to kill him is no excuse for the
homicidal act, unless the deceased at the time. made some
attempt to execute such a design, and thereby induced the
accused reasonably to believe that he intended to do so immediately. Hence the court held that it was not competent for the
accused to introduce evidence of an assault that the deceased
committed on him six weeks before, nor to give evidence of
previous uncommunicated threats, the other evidence showing
that the- deceased at the time of the killing made no hostile
demonstration against the accused calculated to show that the
accused was in any danger of life or limb.
Actual danger of the kind, or a reasonable belief of such
actual danger, must exist at the time, else the justification will
fail. Repeated threats, even of a desperate and lawless man,
will not and ought not to authorize the person threatened to
take the life of the threatener, nor will any demonstration of
hostility, short of a manifest attempt to commit a felony,
justify a measure so extreme.
Reasonable doubt upon that subject cannot be entertained;
but the Supreme Court of Kentucky decided, that, where one's
life had been repeatedly threatened by such an enemy, and it
appeared that he had recently been exposed to an attempt by
the same person to assassinate him, and that the previous threats
were continued, the person threatened might still go about his
lawful business, and if on such an occasion he happened to meet
the threatener, having reason to believe him to be armed and
ready to execute his murderous intention, and if he did so
believe, and from the threats, the previous attempt at assassina-

Oct. 1876.]

WIGGINS V. PEOPLE, ETC., IN UTAH.

tion, the character of the man, and the circumstances attending
the meeting, he had a right tobelieve that the presence of his
adversary put his life in imminent peril, and that he could
secure his personal safety in no other way than to kill the
supposed assailant, he was not obliged to wait until he was
actually assailed. Bohamrmon v. Com., 8 Bush, 488.
Beyond all doubt, that is the strongest case to support the
theory set up for the prisoner in this case to be found in the
judicial reports, and yet it is obvious that it does not make an
approach to what is necessary to constitute a defence for the
crime charged against the prisoner in the indictment.
Except where threats are recent, and were accompanied by
acts and conduct indicative of an intention to execute the
threatened purpose, the evidence of previous threats is not
admitted by the Supreme Court of Arkansas. Atkins v. State,
16 Ark. 584; Pitman v. State, 22 id. 357.
Where the evidence of previous threats is necessary, in connection with the other evidence, to make out a case of selfdefence, the Supreme Court of Indiana hold that the evidence
is admissible. Holler v. State, 37 Ind. 61.
Jurists and text-writers appear to concur that antecedent
threats alone, whether communicated or not, will not justify a
subsequent deadly assault by the other party, unless the party
who made the previous threats manifests, at the time of the
act, a design to carry the threats into immediate effect. People
v. Seroggins, 37 Cal. 683.
Argument to establish that proposition seems to be unnecessary in this case, as the legislature of the Territory have enacted
that a bare fear that a felony is about to be committed "shall
not be sufficient to justify the killing" in such a case. "It
must appear that the circumstances were sufficient to excite
the fears of a reasonable person, and that the party killing really
acted under the influence of those fears, and not in a spirit of
revenge," showing that the court below could not have decided
otherwise than they did witlmout violating the statute law of
the Territory. Laws Utah, p. 60, sect. 112.
Weighed in the light of the adjudged cases, it is clear that
the evidence of previous uncommunicated threats is never
admitted in the trial of an indictment for murder, unless it

486

SMITH v. GOODYEAR DENTAL VULCANITE Co.

[Sup. Ct.

appears that other evidence has been introduced tending to

show that the act of homicide was committed in self-defence,
and that the evidence of such threats may tend to confirm or
explain the other evidence introduced to establish that defence.

Society, in my opinion, is deeply interested that criminal
justice shall be accurately and firmly administered; and, being
unable to concur in the opinion and judgment of the court in
this case, I have deemed it propcr to state the reasons for my
dissent.

SMITH v. GOODYEAR DENTAL VULCANITE CO.IPANY ET AL.
1. Where the claim for a patent for an invention, which consists of a product or
a manufacture made in a defined manner, refers in terms to the antecedent
description in the specification of the process by which the product is obtained, such process is thereby made as much a part of the invention as are
the materials of which the product is composed.
2. Whether the single fact that a device has gone into general use, and displaced
other devices previously employed for analogous uses, establishes, in all
cases, that the later device involves a patentable invention, it may always
be considered as an element in the case, and, when the other facts leave
the question in doubt, it is sufficient to turn the scale.
8. Hotchkiss v. Greenwood, 11 How. 248, decides that employing one known
material in place of another is not invention, if the result be only greater
cheapness and durability of the product. It does not decide that the use of
one material in lieu of another in the formation of a manufacture can, in no
case, amount to invention, or be the subject of a patent.
4. In the present case, the result of the use, in the manner described in the specification, of hard rubber in lieu of the materials previously used for a plate
for holding artificial teeth, or such teeth and gums, is a superior product,
having capabilities and performing functions which differ from any thing
preceding it, and which cannot be ascribed to mere mechanical skill, but
are to be justly regarded as the results of inventive effort, as making the
manufacture of which they are attributes a novel thing in kind, and, consequently, patentable as such.
5. A patent is prima face evidence that the patentee- was the first inventor,
and casts upon him who denies it the burden of sustaining his denial by
proof.
6. The presumption arising from the decision of the Commissioner of Patents,
granting the reissue of letters-patent, that they are for the same invention
which was described in the specification of the original patent, can only be
overcome by clearly showing, from a comparison of tfie original specification with that of the reissue, that the former does not substantially describe
what is described and claimed in the latter.
7. Upon consideration of the history of this invention, the court holds: 1. That

