HoRNOR v.

HENNING ET AL.

[Sup. Ot.

and turnpike company, but also on "all profits of such company
carried to the account of any fund, or used for construction."
The counsel for the government insists that this bridge was
a betterment, because it was much more valuable than the old
wooden bridge. But the assessor did not include the excess
merely: he assessed the whole expenditure bestowed upon the
new bridge, without making any allowance for the old one. His
idea seems to have been, that all earnings used in new constructions are made taxable by the act, without reference to betterments, or to their being substituted for other constructions.
Indeed, his assessment is not for "profits used in construction,"
but for "earnings used in constructing new Windsor Bridge,
,55,712.60."
In this view he Vas decidedly wrong. Earnings expended on a new structure may or may not be profits.
Whether they are or not depends on other, things to be taken
into the account besides the there fact of such expenditure.
Had the assessment been merely for the increased value of the
new bridge over the old one when in good repair, the case
might have admitted of very different consideration.
Judgment affirmed.

HOIxNor v. HENN-NG ET AL.
The act of Congress (16 Stat. 98), under which certain corporations are organized
in the District of Columbia, contains a provision, that, "if the indebtedness of
any conpany organized under this act shall at any time exceed the amount
of its capital stock, the trustees of such company assenting thereto shall be
personally and individually liable for such excess to the creditors of the company." Held, 1. That an action at law cannot be sustained by one creditor
among many for the liability thus created, or for any part of it, but that the
remedy is in equity. 2. That this excess constitutes a fund for the benefit of
all the creditors, so far as the condition of the company renders a resort to it
necessary for the payment of its debts.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The plaintiff in error, who was plaintiff below, had judgment
against him on demurrer to his declaration. The substance of
the declaration is, that he is a creditor of the Washington City
Savings-Bank; that the bank had incurred an indebtedness of
$850,000 in excess of the amount of its capital stock, with the

Oct. 1876.]

O

.ORNORV.

HENNING ET AL.

assent of the defendants, who were the trustees of said bank,
by reason whereof a right of action had accrued to plaintiff to
have and recover the amount of his debt, to wit, $4,000.
The act of Congress of Mlay 5, 1870 (16 Stat. 98), authorizes the formation of corporations for various purposes
within the District of Columbia by the voluntary association of
individuals, who shall pursue the directiois of the statute on
the subject. Sect. 4 of that act provides for manufacturing,
agricultural, mining, znd ftechanical corporations, and contains
several provisions on the subject of the liability of the stockholders and of the trustees who manage these corporations.
One of these is, that " if the indebtedness of any company
organized under this act shall at any time exceed the amount
of its capital stock, the trustees of such company assenting
thereto shall be personally and individually liable for such
excess to the creditors of the company."
By the second section of an act of the same session, passed
June 17, 1870 (16 Stat. 153), it was enacted that savingsbanks might be organized under the provisions of sect. 4 of
the act first mentioned, which contains the clause above recited;
and it is on the liability of the trustees declared in this clause
that plaintiff bases his cause of action.
Argued by Mr. F.P. Cupyll for the plaintiff in error.
1. The act of June 17, 1870, merely authorizes savings-banks
to organize and do business under the provisions of sect. 4 of
the act of May 5, 1870; therefore, in construing the act as
applied to trustees of such banks, the rules of construction
applicable to the liability of trustees of mercantile, mining, and
other companies, under the first act, should be applied.
2. The right of action is separate and several in favor of
each and every creditor.
3. The liability is a joint liability, to which all the trustees
assenting to an excess of indebtedness over the amount of the
capital stock may be subjected.
4. The statute does not designate or prescribe, expressly or by
implication, the form of the remedy to which the creditor shall
resort. He therefore has the right to elect that which may be
appropriate, under the circumstances of his particular case.
5. In the case at bar, an action at law lies in favor of the

HORNOR V. HENNING ET AL.

[Sup. Ot.

plaintiff against the defendants, for the amount of his debt and
interest. Debt is the proper form of such action. 3 Paige,
409, 415, 416; Bank of Poughceepsie v. Ibbotson, 24 Wend.
473; Garrison v. Howe, 17 N. Y. 458; Simmons v. Spencer,
15 id. 548; Chandler v. Hoag, 2 Hun (N. Y.), 613; UnionIron
Co. v. Pierce et al., 4 Biss. 327; Dozierv. Thornton, 19 Ga. 325 ;
Bullardv. Bell, 1 Mias. 243; Culver v. _National Banc of Chicago,
64 Il. 530; Steele v. Dunne, 65 id. 298.
11Ir. Ifalter D. Davidge for the defendants in error.
The liability claimed is purely statutory. It did not exist,
at common law. The liability of the trustee is solely for the
excess of indebtedness, and to the creditors of the company, one
of whom cannot maintain an action for his individual debt.
The whole scheme of the provision is the creation of a fund for
the benefit of all the creditors of the company. Sturgis v.
Burton, 8 Ohio St. 215; Herchants'Bank v. Stevenson, 10 Gray,
232; Stevenson v. iJferchants' Bank, 5 Allen, 398; illoore v.
Reynolds, 109 Mass. 473; BHarris v. The First Parishof Dorchester, 23 Pick. 112; .0rease v. Babcock, 10 Met. 531; Morse
on Banking, pp. 438, 439, and cases cited; Pollard v. Bailey,

20 Wall. 520.
The remedy being in equity, the demurrer was properly sustained.
delivered the opinion of the court.
The demurrer questions the right of a single creditor among
many of the corporation to bring his separate action at law for
his own debt, and recover a judgment for it against the trustees,
though the allegations of his declaration be true.
If there exists -an indebtedness of $850,000 in excess of the
capital stock (which is alleged to be $50,000), it is clear that
there must be other creditors than plaintiff ; and as- plaintiff's
account, filed as part of the declaration, shows that he claims
as a depositor in the. bank, it is a reasonable inference that
there are a great many other creditors, and that most of them
are depositors of small sums. Under these circumstances,
conceding the liability of the defendants, several questions press
themselves on our attention as to the nature and extent of this
liability and the mode of its enforcement. Taking the terms
AIR. JUSTICE MILLER

Oct. 1876.]

v. HENNING ET AL.
HoRNOR
.

of the statute literally, the trustees are liable to the creditors
as a body in the full sum of the excess (in this case $850,000),
without regard to the amount due them collectively or individually, and though the corporation may be willing and able to
pay every debt it owes as it falls due or is demanded. Nor
does it matter whether the debts are in excess at the time the
suit is brought or not, for "if at any time" the indebtedness
exceeds the capital stock, the assenting trustees are liable. Nor
by the strict terms of the clause are the defendants liable to a
single creditor, if there be more than one, but to all, - not to
each creditor for the amount of his debt, but to all the creditors
for the amount of the excess.
Yet in the face of this necessary result, if the literal construction be adopted, plaintiff in error maintains that the
excess of indebtedness incurred above the capital is to be
treated as a penalty, and that any creditor can sue for that
penalty without regard to the rights of the others. If the
action is to recover a penalty, the defendants can only be liable
to one action and to one penalty; and the recovery by plaintiff,
if he had the right to recover, could be pleaded in bar of any
other action for the same penalty.
But it is not readily to be believed that Congress intended
to make the trustees liable beyond the debts of the bank, which
it failed or refused to pay; yet if the excess is a penalty, it
would be no defence for the directors to plead that the bank
was ready and willing, and had never refused, to pay when
demand was made. In fact, while the bank, outside of its
capital stock, may have had $1,000,000 in its vaults ready to
pay, a single creditor, who had never demanded his money of
the bank, could sue the trustees.
Nor can we believe that an act intended for the benefit of
the creditors generally, when the bank proves insolvent, can be
justly construed in such a manner that any one creditor can
appropriate the whole or any part of this liability of the trustees
to his own benefit, to the possible exclusion of all or of any part
of the other creditors. But such may, and probably would,
often be the result if any one creditor could sue alone, while
there were others unsecured.
We are of opinion that the fair and reasonable construction

HORNOR V. HENNING ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

of the act is, that the trustees who assent to an increase of the
indebtedness of the corporation beyond its capital stock are to
be held guilty of a violation of their trust; that Congress
intended, that, so far as this excess of indebtedness over capital
stock was necessary, they should make good the debts of the
creditors who had been the sufferers by their breach of trust;
that this liability constitutes a fund for the lknefit of all the
creditors who are entitled to share in it, in proportion to the
amount of their debts, so far as may be necessary to pay these
debts.
The remedy for this violation of duty as 'trustees is in its
nature appropriate to a court of chancery. The powers and
instrumentalities of that court enable it to ascertain the excess
of the indebtedness over the capital stock, the amount of this
which each trustee may have assented to, and the extent to
which the funds of the corporation may be resorted to for the
payment of the debts; also, the number and names of the creditors, the amount of their several debts, to determine the sum
to be recovered of the trustees, and apportioned among the
creditors, -in a manner which the trial by jury and the rigid
rules of common-law proceedings render impossible.
This course avoids the injustice of many suits against defendants for the same liability, and the greater injustice of permitting one creditor to absorb all, or a very unequal portion, of
the sum for which the trustees are liable 1 and it adjusts the
rights of all concerned on the equitable principles which He at
the foundation of the statute.
Counsel for plaintiff cites a number of adjudged cases, mostly
from the courts of New York, in which it is held that an action
at law may be maintained against an individual stockholder in
favor of an individual creditor under the statute of that State,
thatr makes the stockholder liable to the amount of his stock
when the -corporation is insolvent. But there the liability of
the stockholder is several, and is limited -to the amount of his
stock, a fixed sum easily ascertained. -It is held in those courts,
however, as stated in the Bank of Poughkeepsie v. lbbotson,
24 Wend. 473,- that chancery has a concurrent jurisdiction;
and in the case of an Hook v. IWhitloe/c,- Paige, Ch. 409, it
was said that the remedy at law is a very jimperfect one.

Oct. 1876.]

YZNAGA DEL VALLE V. HARRISON ET AL.

233

Without deciding whether we would follow those decisions
in a similar case arising in this District, it is sufficient to say,
that there is an obvious distinction between the liability of
stockholders to the amount of their stock, which is a part of
the obligation assumed when the stock is taken and which is an
exact sum, ascertainable by the number of shares owned by the
shareholder, and. the case of the managing trustees, jointly liable
for a violation of their trust to all the creditors of the corporation
who may be injured thereby.
In the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, under the
identical form of words which we are construing in the present
case, it has been repeatedly decided that the only remedy is a
suit in equity, in which all the creditors are parties; and that
even in equity one creditor cannot sue alone, but must either
join the other creditors, or bring his suit on behalf of himself
and all the others. And while the case is considered in reference
to remedies afforded by the statute, it is placed on the solid
ground, that the fund, by the statute, consists of the excess of
all debts over the capital, and that there are various parties
having several and unequal claims against the fund, which
exceed it in amount. A demurrer to the action at law was
sustained on these grounds in the lerchants' Bank of Newburyport v. Stevenson and Others, 10 Gray, 232. See also Crease v.
Babcock, 19 Met. 501; 5 Allen, 398. The same principle is
held by-this court in the recent case of Pollard v. Bailey,
20 Wall. 520, which, we think, disposes of the one before us.
Judgment affirmed.

YZNAGA DEL VALLE v. HA-RisoN ET AL.
As the Code of Practice of Louisiana provides that all definitive or final judgments must be signed by the judge rendering them, this court, under sect. 691
of the Revised Statutes, as-amended by the act of Feb. 16, 1876 (18 Stat. 816),
cannot, where the matter in dispute does not exceed the sum or value of $5,000,
excluhive of costs, review the judgment of a circuit court of the United States
sitting in that State, signed subsequently to May 1, 1875.

MOTION to' dismiss-a writ 6f error to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of L6uisiana.

