Oct. 1876.]

SUPERvISORS v. LACKAWANA IRON, ETm. Co.

619

the La Crosse road at the then terminus of the latter. It was,
therefore, optional with the construction company to build the
St. Paul Railway over the bridge, and form an actual junction
with the La Crosse road; or to build it to any point in the city,
and make the required connection by means of the Winona and
St. Peter road. Either of these modes would secure the object
desired by the city, - an uninterrupted communication by rail
from St. Paul across the river at Winona to the eastern seaboard.
It is contended that the contract is against public policy and
without consideration. The obvious answer is, that it was expressly sanctioned by an act of the legislature of the State, and
was designed to insure and expedite the construction of works of
internal improvement deemed of vital importance to the material interests of the city. Whether it be expedient to invest
municipal corporations with -uthority to aid in building railways, is a question foreign to the present, inquiry; but where,
as in this instance, it has been conferred and exercised, and the
city has secured the advantages of the contract, the law will
not suffer her to escape from its obligations.
Judgment affirmed.

BOARD OF SUPERVISORS

OF WOOD COUNTY v. LACKAWANA

IRON AND COAL CoMPANY.
The acts of March 8, 1867, c. 93, of March 3, 1869, c. 166, and of Feb. 17, 1871,
of Wisconsin, under which certain bonds were issued to the Green Bay and
Lake Pepin Railroad Company, were not repealed, either directly or by implicationby the acts of the legislature of that State of March 8, 1870, c. 210, and
of March 11, 1872, c. 34.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for -the
Western District of Wisconsin.
Submitted on printed arguments by Mr. P. L. Spooner and
Mr. S. L. Dixon for the plaintiffs in error, and by Mr. S. U.
Pinney for the dafendant in error.

delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action at law brought by the defendant in error to
MR. JUSTICE SwAYNE

620

SUPERVISORS V. LACKAWANA IRON, ETC. CO.

[Sup. Ct.

recover the amount due upon certain coupons taken from bonds
issued by the plaintiff in error to the Green Bay and Lake
Pepin Railroad Company, of which coupons the plaintiff in
error was the owner and holder. The coupons were payable to
the treasurer of the company or order, and it was not questioned
that the plaintiff became their holder bona fide. The bonds and
coupons were issued under the authority conferred by the acts
of the legislature of the State of March 8, 1867, c. 93, of
March 3, 1869, c. 166, and of Feb. 17, 1871, c. 76 (Private
and Local Laws of Wisconsin). The two last were amendatory
of the first-named act. Every thing touching the issue of the
bonds was-in conformity to the requirements of these statutes,
and, so far as this point is concerned, the validity of the bonds
is not denied. Further remarks upon the subject are, therefore,
unnecessary. But it is insisted, that before the bonds were
issued, and before the contract for their issue was entered into,
the acts under which they were issued were repealed by the act
of March 8, 1870, c. 210, and the act of March 11, 1872, c. 34.
These references are also to the local and private laws of the
State. The latter of these acts was amendatoiT of the former.
There was certainly no express repeal. This is not alleged.
The proposition is, that there was such repeal by implication.
This renders it necessary to examine the subject.
The Green Bay and Lake Pepin Railroad Company was incorporated with authority to construct a railway from Green Bay,
in Wisconsin, to the Mississippi River. There was no designation of the counties through which it should pass. Prior to the
passage of the act of March 11, 1872, c. 34, no work had been
done on the line of the road west of New London; a town between the termini of the road. From New London to Grand
Rapids, by- the line of the road, was about forty-five or fifty
miles; and it was forty miles from the latter place to the nearest point on the Milwaukee and St. Paul Railroad. On the 9th
of February, 1871, the company submitted its first proposition
for the exchange of the stock of the company for the bonds of
the county. Grand Rapids and Centralia are in Wood County,
opposite to each other, upon the Wisconsiji RiVer. The company asked for $200,000 of bonds, -$100,000 to be delivered
when the railway was "graded, tied, and ironed," from Fort

Oct. 1876.]

SUPERVISORS v. LACKAWANA IRON,

ETC.

Co.

621

Howard to Grand Rapids; $50,000 when the work was so done
from Fort Howard, and a bridge built over the Wisconsin River
from Grand Rapids, to Centralia; and the remaining $50,000
when the roadway was so "graded, tied, and ironed as far west
as Yellow River." If the road were not so built to Grand
Rapi- 3 by the 1st of January, 1872, the first instalment of the
bonds was to be forfeited; and, if not so built to Centralia and
Yellow River by the 1st of January, 1873, the residue of the
bonds was to be forfeited in like manner.
The proposition was submitted to a popular vote, and duly
sanctioned thereby pursuant to law. The company finding
itself unable to comply with the first condition in point of time,
on the 16th of December, 1871, submittd a further proposition,
to'the effect that the county should exchange $50,000 of the
bonds for stock of the company to the like amount upon the
road being so built to Grand Rapids, the claim of the company
to these bonds to be forfeited unless the work was done by the
1st of January, 1873. This proposition was also duly sanctioned by the requisite popular vote. This was a modification
of the pre-existing contract, by the elongation of the time for
the fulfilment of the first condition, and the reduction of the
amount of the bonds the company was to receive. As thus
modified, the original contract was fulfilled by both parties.
The work was done and the bonds were delivered. The amount
was $150,000. The coupons upon which this suit was brought
were taken from a part of these bonds. Before any thing was
done touching the issue of the bonds, the legislature of Wisconsin
incorporated "The Wisconsin Valley Railway Company," with
authority to construct a railroad "from such point on or near
the La Crosse and Milwaukee Railroad, between Kilborne City
and the tunnel on said road, as its directors should select, to
Wausau, via Grand Rapids." The line of this road approached
Grand Rapids from the west, and the Green Bay and Lake Pepin
road from the east. Nothing had been done with respect to
the locating or building of either road through Wood County
prior to the passage of the act of 1870, and the act amending
it, by which it is alleged the repeal was wrought. The act of
1867, under which the bonds were issued, declares that" it shall
be lawful for every county, through any portion of which the

622

SuPERviSORS v. LACKAWANA IRON, ETC. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Green Bay and Lake Pepin Railway shall run, or any town or
incorporated village in such county, to issue and deliver to said
company its bonds, payable," &c., "as may be agreed upon by
and between" the company and the designated authorities of
the county. The act is entitled "An Act to authorize the counties and towns through which the Green Bay and Lake Pepin
Railroad passes, to aid in its construction." The amendatory
acts of 1869 and 1871, except the third section of the latter act,
are confined to details with respect to the proceedings of the
county. That section will be presently considered in another
eonnection.
The act- of March 8, 1870, relied upon by the plaintiff in
error, is entitled "An Act to authorize the county of Wood to
aid in the .construction of railroads." The amendatory act of
1872 only restricts and lessens the amount of the aid authorized to be given by th6 original act, and abridges the time of
the notice for the popular vote. This latter act may, therefore,
be laid out of view. The prior act, in the first section, declares
that bond8 may be issued "for the purpose of aiding in the construction of the Wisconsin Valley Railroad, from any point on
the line of the Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway to the city of
Grand Rapids or the village of Centralia in the county of Wood,
or in the construction of any other railway of greater length
whicl may first be built from any other direction to the said
city of Grand Rapids or the village of Centralia." The second
section authorizes the county to contract for aid to " any railroad company that shall iindertike the construction of a railroad from any point on the line of the Milwaukee and St. Paul
Railway to the said city of Grand Rapids or village of Centralia,
or with any other railroad company that shall propose to construct from.another direction a railroad of greater length into
the said city -or village," &c. The act of 1867 is conined to-the
Green Bay and Lake Pepin company, and the aid specified was
to be given upon its running through "any portion" of Wood
County, whether it did or did not go to Grand Rapids or Centralia. The act of 1870, on the other hand, applies to all such
companies as should construct roads to one or the other of
those places.
Looking at the face of the statutes, there is certainly no

Oct. 1876.]

SUPERVISORS

V. LACKAWANA

IRON, ETC.

Co.

628

repugnancy between them. Their scope and purposes are distinct and different, and they may well stand together. The
fact that the Green Bay and Lake Pepin company chose to
take their road to'Grand Rapids and Centralia does not affect
the question. They could not by an act in pais give a repealing effect to the statute of 1870, which it would not have had
if the act in pais had not been done.
The parties concerned in the issue of the bonds seem to have
had no idea that there had been any such repeal as is contended
for. This must have been the view of the railroad company
when it submitted its two propositions of Feb. 9, 1871, and
Dec. 16, 1871, when it built the road, and when it received th'e
bonds; of the voters of the county, when they gave their sanction to those propositions, and authorized the bonds to be issued;
and of the county authorities, when they called for the vote,
announced the result, and issued and delivered the bonds to the
company accordingly. The legislature must have had the same
understanding. The act of Feb. 17i 1871, names the act of
1867 by its title, and amends it. Why amend, if it had been
repealed by the prior act in question of" 1870? Again: the
third section of this amendatory act declares that the act published March 8, 1870 (c. 24, Gen. Laws), entitled "An Act to
encourage the construction of railroads in this State," "shall
not be construed as repealing or otherwise affecting the act to
which this act is amendatory," &c. Why this careful provision
against the repeal of the act amended, if the act of 1870 had
already repealed it? Again: the act of March 17, 1878, amending the act entitled "An Act to incorporate the Green Bay and
Lake Pepin Railway," enacts that "the counties of Brown and
Wood, each of which has issued $150,000 of bonds in aid of the
constructioii of the Green Bay and Lake Pepin Railway," and
all other towns and villages which had issued bonds for the
same purpose, "shall, so long as they respectively continue to
hold and own the stock of said railvay company issued or to be
issued in exchange for such bonds, in addition to the right to
vote for all other directors of said company, have the exclusive
right of and among themselves, by the vote of a majority cf the
shares owned by them collectively, to elect one of the directors
of said company, who shall be styled the municipal director,"

624

SUPERVISORS v. LACKAWANA IRON, ETC. CO.

[Sup. Ct.

&c. If the act of 1867 had been repealed, as is claimed, the
bonds were, as is now maintained, utterly void, and the holders
of the stock had no titlef and consequently could have no right
to vote upon it. But, on tle contrary, the existence and validity of the act when the bonds and stock were issued, and the
validity of the title of the rightful holders of both, are affirmed
by the clearest implication. None could be stronger; and what
is so implied in a statute, contract, will, pleading, or other instrument of writing, is as effectual as what is expressed. United
States v. Babliit, 1 Black, 61. Repeal by implication is not
favored in the law. It is held to occur only where different
statutes cover the, same ground, and there is a clear and irreconcilable conflict between 'the earlier and the later. The
rule, as thus stated, is so well settled, that discussion and the
citation of authorities are unnecessary.
The statute-book of 1870 shows the- spirit by which the
legislature was then animated, with respect to the policy of
permitting aid to be given to railroad companies by means of
municipal bonds. It was in favor of the largest latitude. Chapter 24, before mentioned, is a striking instance of such legislation. It permitted 'any town,, incorporated city, or village,
into, near to, or .through " which the line of any railroad should
be located, to take the stock of the company to such amount as
should be authorized by a majority of the voters, -there was
no other check or limit prescribed,- and to pay for it with a
like amount of town, city, or village bonds, authorized by the
vote of such majority to be issued for that purpose. It was
not a time when there was a disposition to repeal any act of the
character of the act of 1867. The current was altogether in
the other direction. The reaction set in at a later period. The
act of 1867 was in no wise affected by the act of 1870. There
was, therefore, no repeal of the latter by implication-or otherwise. It is suggested further,-in behalf of the plaintiff in error,
that the amount found by the verdict of the jury, and for which
the judgment was rendered, incl4des interest on the coupons,
which, it is alleged, is contrary to a statute of the State in force
when the bonds were issued. It is sufficient to say upon this
subject, that the objection, not having been made in the court
below, cannot be taken here. To hold otherwise would involve

Oct. 1876.]

UNITED STATES

v.

FERRARY ET AL.

625

the exercise on our part of original instead of appellate jurisdiction. This is not permitted to us.
The instructions given to the jury by the learned judge who
tried the case in the Circuit Court were correct.
Judgment affirmed.
DAvIs, being interested in the question, as one
of the executors of a will, took no part in the decision of this
ease.
MR. JUSTICE

UNITED

STATES

v.

FERRARY ET AL.

1. Where, pursuant to the tenth section of the act of July 20,1868 (15 Stat. 129),
a survey of a distillery and an estimate of its producing capacity is made,
and a copy thereof furnished the distiller, such survey and estimate conclusively determine the producing capacity of the distillery, fix the minimum
tax due from him, and can only be abrogated by a new survey and estimate, ordered by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, a copy of which
is furnished to the distiller.
2. An abortive attempt to make a new estimate to take the place of the former
cannot have the effect to annul it.

ERRon to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Tennessee.
This is an action on a distiller's bond given to the United
States under the seventh section of the act of July 20, 1868,
15 Stat. 127. The tenth section of that act is as follows: "Immediately after the passage of this act, every assessor shall
proceed, at the expense of the United States, with the aid of some
competent and skilful person, to be designated by the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue, to make survey of each distillery registered,
or intended to be registered, for the production of spirits in his
district, to estimate and determine its true producing capacity, and
in like manner shall estimate and. determine the capacity of any
such distillery as may hereafter be so registered in said district,
a written report of which shall be made in tiplicate, signed by
the assessor and the person aiding in making the same, one copy
of which shall be furnished to the distiller, one retained by the
assessor, and the other immediately transmitted to the CommisSioner of Internal Revenue. If the Commissioner of Internal RevevoL. 111.

40

