116 "

1HOiE

INS. CO. v. CITY COUNCIL.

[Sup. Ct.

took the'certificate in their name for the stock subscribed, remove
the property from th c6ntrol of the State. The commissioners
took the st6ek, not to hold as an investment which was to yield
an annual revenue to the c6unty, but to aid in the construction
of a work in which the public, were interested,- a railroad
through the county. As justly observed by counsel, the manAgement of :the affairs of a railroad company is no part of the
proper business of a county; ,and, when the purpose designed by
the subscription was accomplished, it was sound policy to relieve
the county officers froi any participation in such management.
Of the power of the State to direct a restitution to tax-payers of
a county, or 'other municipal corporation-.of property exacted
from them by taxation, into whatever form the property may be
changed,.so long as it remains in possession of the municipality,
we have no. doubt. 'The exercise of the power infringes upon
no provision of the Federal Constitution. Fffrter than this, it
is not necessary for us to go for the disposition of this case.
Judgment affirmeq.

JIo~m INi1X14Ab , CoxriNy_

v. CITY

Cou cm OF AUGUSTA.

1. Where a statute of,.or authority exercised under, a State is drawn in questionj on the ground of its repugnance to the Constitution of the United
States, or a right is claimed under that instrument, the decision of a State
court in favor of the validity of such statute or a athority,'or adverse to the
right so claimed, can be reviewed here.
2. Aminsurance company conformed to the-requirements of the aot-of the legislature of Georgia, and received from the comptroller-general a'certificate
authorizing it to transact business in that State for one year from Jan. 1,
1874. Thai act does not, expressly or by implication; limit or restrain
the exercise of the taxing power of the State, or of any municipality. An
ordinance of the city council of Augusta, passed Jan. 5, 1874, imposed
from that date an annu'al license tax "on each and every fire, marine,
or accidental insurance company. located, having an office or doing business
within" that city. Held, that the ordinance is not -in violation of that
clause of the -Constitution of the United States which declares that "no
State shall pass any law impairing the obligations of contracts."

to the Supreme Court of the State of Georgia.
A statute of the legislature of Georgia, to regulatd insurance
business -and insurance agencies in the State of Georgia, passed
March 19; 1869, ehacts as followsERROR

Oct. 1876.]

Ho;Nm INS. Co. v. CITY COUNCIL.

" SECTION 1. That it shall not be lawful for any insurance company, or agent of the same, excepting masonic, odd fellows, and
religious mutual aid societies, already chartered by this. State, to
transact any business of insurance, without first procuring a certificate of authority from the comptroller-general of this State;
and, before obtaining such certificate, such company must furnish
the comptroller-general with a statement, under oath, specifying, "First, The name and locality of the company.
"Second, The condition of -such company on the thirty-first day
of December then next preceding, exhibiting the following facts
and items, in the following form: namely, - 1st, capital stock; 2d,
assets, detailed ; 3d, liabilities, detailed; 4th, income preceding year,
detailed ; 5th, expenditures preceding year, detailed; 6th, greatest
risk ; 7th, certified copy of charter.
" SECT. 2. The said statement shall be filed in the office of the
comptroller-general, and the company shall show possession of at
least 8100,000 cash capital.
"SECT. 3. -Upon filing such statement as aforesaid, the comptroller-general, when satisfied that the statement is correct, and
that the company has fully complied with the provisions of this
act, shall issue a certificate of authority to transact business of
insurance in this State to the company applying for the same, and
to all agents such company may appoint and commission.
" SECT. 4. Said statement must be renewed annually on the first
day of January in each year, or within sixty days thereafter; and
if the comptroller-general is satisfied that the capital, securities,
and investments remain secured as at first, he shall furnish a
renewal of the certificates. Insurance companies shall not be
required to furnish but the single statement annually. The comptroller-general shall be entitled to a fee, for examining and filifg
each statement of such companies, of seven and one-half dollars, and
for certificates to agents, of two and one-half dollars,- which fee
shall be paid by the company or agent filing said statements, and
to whom certificates are to be issued."
"SECT. 6. That all persons violating the provisions of this act
shall be liable to indictment, and, on conviction, shall be fined not
less than one hundred dollars, nor more than five hundred dollars,
at the discretion of the .jury and court trying the same."

The plaintiff in error, a cQrporation organized under the
laws of the State of New York, had an agency in the city
of Augusta. On furnishing the required statement, it received

HOME INS. Co. v. CITY COUNCIL.

LSu p.Ct.

the 'certificate of the comptroller-general authorizing it to
conduct the business of insurance in that city for one year
from Jan. 1, 1874. Under a general law, it paid a tax of
one per cent upon. the gross amount of premiums received;
and, under a city ordinance, a tax, of one and a quarter per
cent thereon.
On the 5th of January, 1874, the city council passed an
ordinance, the first section of which provides, that, from and
after that date, "the annual license tax on insurance companies
shall be as follows: 1. On each and every life-insurance company located, having an office or doing business i'ithin the
city of Augusta, $100., 2. On each and ev4ry fire, marine, or
accidental insurance company located, having an office or doing
business within the city of Augusta, $250.
The legislature, by an act passed Feb. 26, 1874, validated all existing ordinance's of said city council imposing
taxes 'for the -support of its municipal government for 1874..
Thereupon the plaintiff in error filed its bill in the Superior
Court of Richmond County, to enjoin the council from collecting
the license tax for that year. imposed upon it, and claimed, as a
ground of relief, that said ordinance impaired the obligation of
the contract between the company and the State, whereby the
former was authorized to transact the business of insurance
therein, and thus violated that clause of the Constitution of the
United States which declares that no State, and, a fortiori, no
political subdivision of a State, "shall pass any law impairing
the obligation of contracts."
The Superior Court refused tbe injunction prayed for, and
dismissed the bill; and the decree having been affiimed by the
Supreme Court of the State; the company brought the case
here.
Mr. William H. .Evarts. and Mr. Salem Dutcher, for the
plaintiff in error.
An ordinance of a municipal corporation of a State is the
exercise of an authority under that State. Weston" v. City
Council of Charleston, 2 Pet. 449.
A final'judgment in any suit in the highest .court of a State,
in which a decision could be had affirming the validity of an
ordinance of a municipal cbrporation of that State, which was

Oct. 1876.]

HoMrE INS. Co. v. CITY COUNCIL.

drawn in question on the ground of its repugnance to the Constitution of the United States, is subject to review by this
courc. Weston v. City Council of Charleston, supra; Osborne
v. Mobile, 16 Wall. 479; Cannon v.. New Orleans, 20 id. 577.
The ordinance was the point on which the controversy turned,
and the decision of the Supreme Court of the State was in
favor of its validity.
The compliance of -the company with the terms of the act
of 1869 and the action of the State thereunder, form a contract
within the meaning of art. 1, sect. 10, clause 1, of .the Constitution of the United States. It is identical in principle with,
although differing in form from, that in Fletcher v. Peck,
6 Cranch, 87. The considerations are, to the former, authority
to do business in the State 'for a specified period; to the
latter, the public advantages arising from the operations in the
State of a corporation coming up to the prescribed standard of
usefulness, solvency, and reliability.
" The word ' license' means permission or authority ; and a
license to do any particular thing is a permission or authority
to do that thing, and, if granted by a person having power to
grant it, transfers to the grantee the right to do whatever it
purposes to authorize. It certainly transfers to him all the
right which the grantor can transfer to do what is within the
terms of the license." Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 563 (580)
State Tonnage Tax Cases, 12 Wall. 204 (215). A license is a
contract. " It is a right given by some competent authority
to do an act which, without such authority, would be illegal."
Bouvier, Law Diet.; Mayor, Jc. of Bome v. Lumpkin, 5 Ga.
447; Chastain v. Toivn Council of chlhoun, 29 id. 333; Adams
v. Mayor of Albany, 29 id. 56; Wood v. City of Brooklyn,
14 Barb. 425; Martin v. O'Brien, 34 Miss. 21; Leonard v.
City of Canton, 35 id. 189; Boyd and Jackson v. The State, 46
Ala. 329; Martin v. O'Brien, 34 Miss. 21; Philadelphia Association v. Wood, 39 Penn. St. 73.
It is submitted that the license tax imposed after the
required authority had been conferred by the State, on a full
compliance by the company with the stipulated conditions in
question, c~nnot be sustained, and that the city could not, during
the year 1874, limit, burden, or obstruct, in any way, the

HOME

INS.

CO. v.

CITY COUNCIL.

[Sup. Ct.

exercise by the company of its right to transact its legitimate
business, - a right secured by the contract with the State. The
amount of "license tax" exacted. is immaterial. Brown v.
Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419 ;'Mayor, &c. qf Bome v. Lumpkin
et al., 5 Ga. 447; Adams v. Mayor of Albany, 29 id. 56;
Chastainv. Town Council of Calhoun, 29 id. 333; Sanders v.
Town Commissioners of Butler, 30 id. 679; MIfayor, &c. of
Savannah v. Charlton,86 id. 460 ; M3fayor, & c. of New York v.
'Nichols, 4 Hill, 209; Wood v. City of Brooklyn, 14-Barb. 425;
Stein v. Layor, &c. of Mobile, 49 Ala. 362; i"(ayor, &c. of New
York v. Second Avenue B. B. Co., 32 N. Y. 261; Leonard v.
City of Canton, 35 Miss. 189; Martin v. O'Brien, 34 id. 21;
Boyd and Jackson v. The State, 46 Ala. 329; Philadelphia
Association v. Wood, 39 Penn. St. 73; Prince v. City of St.
Paul, 19 Minn.267.
Mr. William Brown, contra.
MR. JuSTIOE SwAyam delivered the opinion of the court.
Under an act of the legislature of Goorgia, of the 19th of
March, 1869, the. insurance company. procured the requisite
authority to. transact, by itself or agents, the business of insurance for one year, from the 1st of January, 1874, and, at the
option of the company, for sixty days longer.
The company thereupon established an office and agency in
the city of Augusta, -and tlhereafter transacted business at that
place. A general law of the State imposed a tax of one'per
cent upon the gross amount of premiums received.- An ordinance of the city imposed a -tax of one and a quarter per cent
upon such -receipts. These taxes were pid by the company
without objection. On.the 5th of January, 1874, the city council passed an ordinance which imposed, further, a license tax of
$250 " on each and every fire, marine, or accidental insurance
doinpany located, having an office, or doing business within the
city of Augusta." The bill was filed to enjoin the collection of
,this tax. The Superior Court of Richmond County sustained
the validity of the tax, and dismissed the bill. The Supreme
Court of the State affirmed the decree. The complainant there
upon sued out a writ of error, and removed the case to this
court.

Oct. 1876.]

HomE

INS.

0.

v. CITY COUNCIL.

In the argument here, it was insisted by the defendant in
error that this court has no jurisdiction of the case. We will
first consider this objection. The bill alleges -that the ordinance imposing the tax in question is void for many reasons,
and, among them, that it is in conflict with the contract clause
of the Cbnstitution of the United States.
Where a judgment or decree is brought to this court by a
writ of error to a State court for review, the case, to warrant
the exercise of jurisdiction on our part, must come within one-,
of three categories: 1. There must have been drawn in question the validity
of a treaty or statute of, or authority exercised under, the
United States; and the decision must have been against the
claim which either was relied upon to maintain.
2. Or there must have been drawn in question a statute of,
or authority exercised under, a State, upon the ground of repugnance to the Constitution, or a law or treaty of, the United
States; and the decision must have been in favor of the validity
of the State law or authority in question.
3. Or a right must have been claimed under the Constitution, or a treaty, or law of, or by virtue of a commission held or
authority exercised under, the United States; and the decision
must have been against the right so claimed. Rev. Stat. 132,
sect. 709 ; Sevier v. Haskell, 14 Wall. 15; Weston v. City Council of Charleston, 2 Pet. 449; McGwyre v. The Commonwealth,
3 Wall. 385.
Here there was drawn in queston the authority exercised by
the city council under the State in passing the ordinance imposing the tax complained of. The question raised was as to its
repugnancy to the Constitution of the United States; and the
decision was in favor of the validity of the authority so exercised. A right was also claimed under the Constitution of the
United States. The decision was adverse to the clim. The
case is, therefore, within two of the categories we have stated.
The jurisdictional objection cannot be maintained.
This brings us to the consideration of the case upon its merits. Whether the claims which give us jurisdiction are well
founded, is the question to be considered.
The national Constitution (art. 1, sect. 10, clause 1) declares

HOME INS. CO. v. CITY COUNCIL.

[Sup.-Ct.

that "no State shall pass any law impairing the obligation of
contracts."
The act of 1869, before mentioned, forbids any company to
do the business of insurance in the State, without first obtaining
a certificate from the comptroller-general of the State. Before
obtaining such certificate, every company is required to furnish
a sworn statement, setting forth certain specified particulars.
Upon being satisfied of the truth of the statement, he is required
to issue the certificate. He is entitled to a fee of seven dollars and
a half for examining and filing each statement, and a fee of two
dollars and a half for each certificate. The fifth section declares
that whatever deposits, taxes, penalties, certificates, or licensefees are exacted from Georgia companies in any other State,
shall be exacted from the companies of such State in Georgia.
It does not appear by the record that any Georgia insurance
company was doing business in New York in the year 1874.
This section, therefore, does not affect the case in hand. The
act contains no other allusion to the subject of taxation. It
does not, therefore, circumscribe in any degree the taxing power
of the State, or of any municipality within the State clothed
with such authority. It left both, in this respect, standing just
where they would have stood if this act had not been passed.
It contained no stipulation, express or implied, that either
should be thereby in any wise limited or restrained.
If it -were competent for the State to impose the tax of one
per cent upon the gross amount of premiums received, would it
not have been equally so for the State to impose a further tax,
the same with that in question, and in the same way? And if
it -were competent for the city council to impose the tax of one
and a quarter per cent upon the same receipts, 'why might it not
impose the further burden here in question? If the State could
impose the further tax, why not the municipality ? Is there
any sensible ground of contract prohibition upon which the
claim of exemption from either can be placed? This question
must necessarily be answered in the negative. We find no
semblance of a contract that' additional taxes should not be
imposed.
In The License. Cases, 5 Wall. 462, the nature of the tax exaction here in controversy was carefully considered by this court.

Oct. 1876.]

HOmE INS. Co. v. CITY COUNCIL.

There the revenue laws of the United States required payment
in advance to be made for permission to carry on the business
of selling liquor, and of selling lottery-tickets. It was provided
that no license so granted, or special tax so laid, should be construed to authorize any business within a State forbidden by
the laws'of such State, or so as to prevent the taxation by the
State of the same business.
This court held that the payment required was a special tax,
levied in the manner prescribed; that the penalty provided was
a mode of enforcing its payment; and that the license, when
issued, was only a receipt for the tax. It was held further, that,
as regards the reservation of power in favor of the States, the
result would have been the same if the acts of Congress had
been silent upon the subject. This was necessarily so, because
the objects taxed belonged to the internal commerce of the
States, and were within their police power, and the right of
Congress and the States to tax was concurrent. Congress
could, therefore, no more restrict the power of a State than
the State could restrict that of Congress.
What is said there as to license taxes is applicable to the
case before us. There is no difference in principle between
such a tax and those which have been paid by the plaintiff
in error to the defendant in error, and to the State, without
objection.
In the ordinance in question the tax is designated "a license
tax," but its payment is not made a condition precedent to the
right to do business. No special penalty is prescribed for its
non-payment, and no second license is required to be taken out.
Had the ordinance been otherwise in these particulars, we have
seen, viewing the subject in the light of the License Tax
Cases, that the result would have been the same.
The case in all its aspects was ably and elaborately examined
by the Supreme Court of the State. Their conclusion upon
the "Federal question" we have considered is the same with
ours. There being no other such question raised in the record,
our duty is thus terminated. We have no authority to look
further into the case.
Judment affirmed.

