Oct. 1876.]

MACKIE ET AL. V.

STORY.

times held that we have no power to review the decisions of
the State courts upon such questions. Bethel v. Demaret, 10
Wall. 537; _Delmas' v. Ins. Go., 14 id. 666 ; Ins. Co. v. Hendren, 92 U. S.287; Rockhold v. Rockhold, id. 130.
Writ dismissed.

MACIE ET A.L. V. STORY.
1. In Louisiana, a legacy to two persons, "to be divided equally between them,"
is a conjoint one. If but one of them survives the testator, he is entitled,
by accretion, to the whole of the thing bequeathed.
2. Parol evidence, to show the intention of the testator, is not admissible.

to the Circuit Court of the UnitedI States for the
District of Louisiana.:
Submitted on printed arguments by Mr. aeorge L. Bright
for the plaintiffs in error, and by Mr.John Finney and Mr.
Henry C. Miller, contra.
ERROR

MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

Norman Story, of the city of New Orleans, now deceased,
made his will, dated April 24, 1867, the third paragraph of
which was in these words: "I will and bequeath to Henry C.
Story and Benjamin S. Story all properties I die possessed of, to
be divided equally between them." The legatees were brothers of the deceased, and Henry died before him, leaving chil.
dren; Benjamin survived. The question in this case is, whether
the whole legacy accrued to Benjamin, the survivor, or whether
only one half of it did so, lbaving the deceased intestate as to
the other half.
On the trial, the children of Henry C. Story offered parol
evidence to show the good-will and affection of the deceased
towards him, for the purpose of demonstrating the intention
of the testator in the bequest. This evidence was properly
rejected. The paper must speak for itself, and its meaning and
effect be ascertained by the court.
The court below decided that the legacy was a conjoint one,
and that by the right of accretion the whole of it accrued to
Benjamin'; and in this opinion we concur. The civil law does

MACKIE ET AL. V. STORY.

[Sup. Ct.

not recognize the common-law distincion between joint tenancy and tenancy in common. A gift to two persons jointly,
if it takes effect, inures to their equal benefit without any right
of survivorship. If one dies, his share goes to his legal representatives. Hence the words "to be divided eqiually between
them " added to such a legacy only expresses what the law
would imply without them. They do not alter the character of
the legacy: they are only descriptive of it. At the common
law, they would have the effect of making it a tenancy in common; but they have no such effect in the civil law. The
legacy, if it takes effect in respect of both legatees, will be
divisible equally between them in any event.
But in testamentary dispositions, the civil law does make a
distinction between a conjoint legacy and a legacy of separate
and distinct shares in the thing bequeathed. Where the whole
thing bequeathed is given to two persons, if one of them fails
to receive the benefit of the disposition, either because he dies
before the testator, or is incapable to take it, or refuses to take
it, or because as to him it is revoked, the whole goes to the
other legatee by accretion; for-the whole was given to both,
and it is presumed to be the will of the testator that he shall
not die intestate as to any part, but that the whole shall pass
by his will; and this, notwithstanding it may be divisible
between the two legatees, if received by both. But where an
aliquot part is bequeathed to one, and another aliquot part to
another, then they are separate legacies, and that part which
is bequeathed to one is not bequeathed to the other; as, if the
testator should say, "I give one-half of my bank stock to each
of my two sons," or, " I give my bank stock to my two sons,
one-half to each." Here there is an assignment of parts by
the. testator himself ; and the legacies are separate, and not
conjoint.
The distinction between these forms of expression and that
in the will under consideration may seem somewhat nice; but
it, is not more so than that which prevails in the English law
between a condition annexed to the gift and one annexed to
the payment or delivery of the thing given. Thus, a bequest
of $100 to A when he attains twenty-one years is a conditional gift, and fails if A dies before twenty-one.
But a

Oct. 1876.]

MACKIE ET AL. V.

STORY.

bequest to A of $100, to be paid to him when he attains that
age, is an absolute gift, and does not fail though he dies before,
the condition being annexed only to the payment.
Before the adoption of the French Civil Code, there was
some difference of opinion on the subject under consideration;
and this may account for the passages quoted by the plaintiffs
in error from Domat. The provisions of the Civil Code on the
subject were probably intended to settle the dispute. The
Civil Code of Louisiana exactly follows that of France, and
declares as follows: "Accretion shall take place for the benefit
of the legatees in case of the legacy being made to several conjointly. The legacy shall be reputed to be made conjointly,
when it is made by one and tha same disposition, without
the testator's having assigned the part of each co-legatee in
the thing bequeathed." This language has received from the
French courts and jurists abundant construction. Thus, where
the disposition was as follows: "I make as iny heirs general
and universal Mr. Plint6 and his two sisters, to enjoy and dispose of my entire inheritance after my decease by equal portions," the Court of Cassation adjudged tfiat the declaration as
to parties did not apply to the gift itself, but only to the execution of it, or the mode in which the legatees were to divide
it between them, and, consequently, that the right of accretion
arose in reference to the part of one of the legatees who died
before the testator in favor of the others. Duranton, lib. 8,
tit. 2, vol. ix. (Paris ed.) art. 507. This was in 1808; and similar decisions have been made since that time by the same court.
Duranton observes: " We adopt this doctrine. The assignment of equal aliquot parts- to each of the legatees, as the half,
the third, &c., works a division of the disposition, and makes
as many legacies as there .are assign~ed parts; but the mere
declarition of equality of rights in the thing bequeathed acts
only on the division, and.not on the gift itself."
Many more French authorities to the same effect could be
referred to; but it is unnecessaryj as the Supreme Court of
Louisiana has passed' upon the question, and its decision is
binding on us as a rule of property. In the case of Parkinson
v. kHcDonbugh, 4 Martin, i. s. 246, decided -in 1826, the. substantive words of the bequest were the same as in the case

MACKIE ET AL. V.

STORY.

[Sup. Or.

-before us, - namely, "I bequeath to the orphan children of my
old friend Godfrey Duher, Mary, Nancy, James, and Eliza,
one-eighth of all my property, to be equally divided among
them;" and the decision was, that the legacy was conjoint, and
consequently, that the portion of one of the legatees who died
before the testator went by accretion to the survivors. The
court say, "The' distinction between a bequest of a thing to
many in equal portions, and one wherein a testator gives a
legacy to two 6r more individuals, to be divided in equal portions,
appears at first view extremely subtle and refined. The difference of phraseology in those two modes of bequeathing is so
slight; as not readily to convey to the mind any difference in
ideas, and can only produce this effect by separating the members
of the sentgnce in the latter phrase; in truth, to create two
distinct sentences, each complete in itself with regard to sense
and meaning, - the one relating to the disposition of the will,
the other to its execution. We might hesitate much in adopting
this method of construction, were it not sanctioned by the
authorities cited in behalf of the appellants: the doctrine contended for is fully supported by the commentary of Touillier
on the 1044th article-of Code Napbleon, which we have already
shown to be precisely similar to that of our own code on the
same subject."
This decisiQn was followed by the same court in 1855, in the
case of Lebeau v. Trudeau, 10 La. Ann. 164, which was even a
stronger case in favor of assignment of separate parts than that
of Parkinsonv. MoD onough, the words of the bequest being,
"After my debts are paid, my property shall be divided in equal
proportions among the persons hereinafter named." After
naming the legatees, the testator says, "I have hereinbefore
mentioned the names of the persons to whom I bequeath all
my property." After a full discussion of the question, it was
decided that the legacy was conjoint, and that accretion took
place. The court uses the following language: "The assigning
of the parts of each co-legatee means something more than is
comprehended in the language of this will, which, according
to my understanding of it, simply. directs their participation of
his whole estate-in equal portions. I apprehend the terms used
inthe Code contemplate an express specification and assignment

Oct. 1876.]

BOND ET AL. V.

MOORE.

of the respective portions of the legatees, calling each to his
particular part. But in the present case, there is not that
specific and distinct assignment of the parts which in my
judgment is necessary to constitute a distinct legacy to each, of
a distinct portion of the deceased's fortume. He appears to me,
on the contrary, to have called them conjointly to partake
equally in the totality of his estate, and has mentioned the
equality of their portions for the purpose of regulating the
distribution of that totality. They are conjointly his universal
legatees."
In view of these decisions, we cannot hesitate to decide that
the legacy in question is a conjoint legacy, and that the right
of accretion took place in favor of the defendant in error.Judgment affirmed.

BoND ET AL. v. MOORE.
The order of the President of the United States of April 29, 1865 (18 Stat. 776),
removed, from that date, all restrictions upon commercial intercourse between
Tennessee and New Orleans; and neither the rights nor the duties of the
bolder'of a bill of exchange, drawn at Trenton, Tenn., which matured in
New Orleans before June 13, 1865, were dependent upon, or affected by, the
President's proclamation of the latter date (id. 763).

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Tennessee.
This is an action commenced in the Circuit Court of Haywood
County, Tenn., against the defendant in error as indorser of a
bill of exchange drawn at Trenton, Tenn., Feb. 13, 1862, upon
a firm in New Orleans, La., and payable four months after
date. The bill was not presented in New Orleans until June
20, 1865, when, payment being refused, the plaintiff caused it
to be protested.
In their declaration the plaintiffs averred that the earlier
presentation of the bill in New Orleans was prevented by the
obstructions of war, and the interruption of intercourse between
their place of residence and that of the drawees.
Among other defences the defendant interposed a plea that
the bill -wias not presented within a reasonable time after the
removal of such, alleged obstructions.
VOL. 111.

88

