KIMBALL V. EVANS.

[Sup. Ct.

wrong-doer, and it is a good defence against all claims from
those who have lost. Individual fault renders the party liable
to the innocent loser, and is a complete answer to any claim
made by the faulty party, except in a case where there is
mutual fault, in which case the rule is that the combined
amount of the loss shall be equally apportioned between the
offending vessels.
-Decreereversed and cause remanded, with directions to reverse
the decree of the -District Court, and enter a new decree in
favor of the libellantsfor the entire damages as ascertained
by the commissioner.
MR. Jus

cE BRADLEY

did not sit in this case.

KDfBALL v. EVANS.
Where a petition for the removal of a suit filed under the act of March 2, 1867
(14 Stat. 558), was, in accordance with the practice of the State, reserved for
the decision of the Supreme Court, and the latter dismissed the petition, and
remanded the cause to the inferior court for further proceedings according to
law,-Hfeld, that this court has no jurisdiction.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio.
Pending A suit in the District Court of Stark County, Ohio,
a petition was filed, under the act of March 2, 1867 (14 Stat.
558), for its removal to the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern District in that State. This petition presenting for consideration, in the opinion of the District Court,
difficult and important questions, the cause was reserved, in
accordance with the practice in Ohio, to the Supreme Court
"for its decision on said pet'itiofi for the removal of .the cause
to the Circuit Court." The Supreme Court, after hearing, dismissed the petition and remanded the cause to the District
Court " for further proceedings according to law.'
To reverse this judgment the present writ of error was
brought.
Submitted on printed arguments by Mr. H. -E. Paine for the
defendant in error.

Oct. 1876.]

TALTY v. FREEDMAN'S SAVINGS & TRUST Co.

321

MR. CmaEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.

It is clear 'we have no jurisdiction in this cause. The judgment of the Supreme Court is not the final judgment in the
suit. It disposed finally of one of the questions involved in the
suit, but not of the suit itself. The suit is still pending in
the District Court, and it is not impossible that the parties now
complaining may be satisfied with the judgment which they
may in the end be able to secure in the State courts. If not,
after a final judgment has in fact been rendered by the highest
court of the State in which a decision in the suit can be had,
the case may be again brought here for a determination of the
questions arising upon the petition for removal. But in the
present condition of the record the writ must be
Dismissed.

TALTY v. FREEDMAN'S SAvnTGS AND TRUST COXANY.Where the pledgee parts with the pledge to a bona fide purchaser without notice
of any righjtor claim of the pledgor, the latter cannot recover against such
purchaser without first tendering him the amount due on the pledge.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the District-of Columbia.
This was replevin by the plaintiff to recover a collateral security pledged to one Kendig, a broker, and by him sold to the
defendant. Under the instructions of the court below, the jury
found a verdict for the defendant; judgment was rendered
thereon, and the plaintiff sued out this writ of error. The
facts are fully set forth in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Joseph H. Bradley for the plaintiff in error.
The chattel replevied was a mere chose in action, and was not
assigned by the owner. His indorsement in blank did not, at
law, transfer any title to it.
Kendig had merely the option to purchase the collateral if
the note was not paid.
If the plaintiff's testimony was true, no tender or offer of
payment .to the defendant was necessary.
Wilson v. Little
et al., 2 Comst. 443.
VOL. Ill.

21

