Oct. 1876.]

COUNTY OF CALLAWAY v. FOSTER.

nor costs of suit can enter into the computation." Walker v.
United States, 4 Wall. 164; Knapp v. Banks, 2 How. 73. The
act of 1875 simply increases the jurisdictional amount. No other
change is made in the old law.

The judgment in this case was

rendered Mlay 8, 1875, for $5,000 and no more, except costs.
It followVs that, according to the practice established under the
old law, this writ must be
Dismissed.for want of jurisdiction.

COUNTY OF CALLAWAY V. FOSTER.
1. The powers of a railroad company, in Missouri, in existence prior to the adoption of the constitutional provision of 1865, prohibiting subscriptions to the
stock of any corporation by counties, cities, or towns, unless two-thirds of
the qualified electors thereof shall assent, are not affected by such provision,
but remain the same as if it had never been adopted.
2. The power conferred by the statute of Missouri of March 10, 1859, upon a
county in which may be any part of-the route of the Louisiana and Missouri River Railroad Company, to subscribe to the capital stock of that
company without submitting the question of such subscription to the vote
of the people, was not taken away by the amendatory act of March 24,
1868.
3. Every reasonable construction of the language of the act of March 10, 1859,
embraces the county of Callaway, and the road has been actually located
through it.
4. The subscription to the stock of the railroad company, having been actually
made by that county, under the authority of a legislative act, in January,
1868, was legal, and the circumstance that the bonds were issued at a later
date does not impair their validity.

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District cf Missouri.
A copy of the bonds and coupons in question, and a full statement of -the statutory provisions governing the case and of the
facts shown in the record, are set forth in the opinion of the
court.
Argued by Mr. William .. BEvrts for the plaintiff in error,
2.T. D. Stevenson for the defendant in error.
and by Ad&.
ERROR

delivered the opinion of the court.
This is one of the bond cases of -which so many have been
brought before this court .within the last few years. The county
.MA. JUSTICE HIUNT

COUNTY OF CALLAWAY v.

FOSTER.

[SUP. Or.

of Callaway, in the State of Missouri, subscribed to the stock of
a railroad to be built through the county, and issued its bonds
to raise the money to make payment therefor. The road has
been built, is in full operation upon the route selected by the
county, and the county holds its stock.
The county court making the subscription paid the interest
for two years upon the bonds, and a portion of the principal.
Another county court has since been elected, which refuses to
pay either principal or interest.
The plaintiff below, a citizen of the State of Kentucky, paid
his money for a portion of these bonds, and brings the present
suit to recover the amount. The court adjudged that the bonds
must be paid. The county appeals to this court.
The bonds were issued under the act of the general assembly
of Missouri, entitled "An Act to incorporate the Louisiana and
Missouri River Railroad Company, approved March 10, 1859"
(see Acts Mo. 1858, p. 406), as amended by an act approved
March 24, 1868 (Acts Mo. 1868, p. 97).
Sect. 29 provided that "it shall be lawful for the county court
of any county in which any part of the route of said railroad
may be to subscribe to the stock of said company, and issue
bonds of such county to raise funds to pay the stock thus subscribed."
Sect. 22 of the amendatory act of March 24, 1868, is as follows • "It shall be lawful for the company to mark out, locate,
and construct a branch of its road. . . . And all subscriptions to the capital stock of said company intended to be used
in the construction of said branch shall be made in separate
books."
On the 16th of January, 1868, the county court of Callaway
County authorized a subscription of $500,000 to the capital
stock of the said railroad company.
The record shows that on the same day, - to wit, on the sixteenth day of January, 1868, - Harris, the authorized agent,
subscribed for the stock, and received the certificates therefor.
The following is a copy of one of the bonds issued by
the county, with coupon attached, to raise the money to pay
such subscription, and which is now held by the plaintiff
below -

Oct. 1876.]
"No. -.

]

COUNTY OF CALLAWAY

569

v. FOSTER.

STATE OF MISSOUR.

[$100.

"4CALLAWAY COUNTY RAILROAD BOND.

"On the first day of January, A.D. 1873, the county of Callaway
promises to pay to the Louisiana and Missouri River Railroad Company, or bearer, the sum of $100, to bear Interest froin date, at the
rate of nine per cent per annum, payable semi-pnnually on the first
day of January and July in each year, as per coupons attached
hereto, and after maturity to bear the same rate of intbrest until
paid, said principal stim and interest being payable at the Missouri
Bond and Stock Board of St. Louis, in the City of St. Louis, Mo.
This bond is issued by Callaway County, by authority of the act
of the general assembly of the State of Missouri, approved March
10, 1859, as amended by an act approved March 24, 1868.
"Witness my hand, with the seal of said county affixed, this first
day of January, 1869.
"[CL. s.]
GEo. BARTLEY,
"Attest : W. H. BAILY,

"Presiding Justice of Callaway County Court.

"Clerk of Callaway County Court.
" COUPON.

"On the first day of January, 1873, Callaway County will pay
to the bearer the sum of $4.50 at the Missouri Bond and Stock
Board of St. Louis, Mo., interest on Railroad Bond No.-.
" GEo. BARTLEY,
"Presiding Justice of Callaway County Court.
"1W. H. BAILEY,"Clerk of Callaway County Court."

If this subscription was made by virtue of the act of
March 10, 1859, before referred to, it is not contended that
the bonds are invalid. This is understood to be conceded in
the second point made in the brief of the plaintiff in error.
On the other hand, if the subscription depends solely for its
validity upon the act of March 24, 1868, it is contended that
the subscription was without the authority of law, and that the
bonds issued in its fulfilment are void.
The distinction is this: On the 8th of March, 1859, a county
might legally be empowered by the legislature of Missouri to
make a subscription to railroad stock upon its own motion, and
to issue bonds in fulfilment of the obligation. Before the
24th of March, 1868,-to wit, in July, 1865, - a constitutional

COUNTY OF CALLAWAY v. FOSTER.

[Slip. Or.

provision was adopted, in these words: " The general assembly
shall not authorize any county, city, or town to become a stockholder in, or -to loan its credit .to, any company, association, or
corporation, unless two-thirds of the qualified voters of such
county, city, or town, at a regular or special election to be held
therein, shall assent thereto.",
It is not pretended that the assent of the voters of Callaway
County to the subscription in question was given.
The facts upon this branch of the case are, that the subscription to the railroad stock was authorized by the county court,
and actually made by their agent before the act of March,
1868, was passed; that the certificates of stock in said company were issued to and received by the county at the time of
making such subscription, but that the bonds of the county in
question were not issued until a date after the passage of the
latter act, - to wit, in January, 1869, - and that the original
charter was in several particulars altered by the amending act
of 1868.
1. It has been held in many cases by the Supreme Court of
Missouri, that the provision of the constitution of 1865, prohibiting loans or subscriptions for stock, except with the assent
of the electors, is prospective, not retroactive; that the charter
of a company which is in existence before the adoption of the
constitutional provision is not affected by it, but the powers given
by it remain as if no such constitution existed. State v. iMacon
County Court, 41 Mo. 453; Smith v. County, 9 Clark, 54 id. 58.
Although put into execution by making the subscription or
issuing the bonds after the adoption of the constitution, the
power remains valid.
2. The constitution of 1865 contains, in connection with the
provision already quoted, the following: "All statute laws of
the State now in force, not inconsistent with the constitution,
shall continue in force until they shall expire by their own
limitations, or be amended or repealed by the general assembly." In State of Missouri v. -Cape Girardeau,& State Line
.Railroad,48 Mo. 468, it -was held, that the constitutional provision prohibiting special enactments did not extend to amendments of laws in-force when'it was adopted, but that additional
power given to the Cape Girardeau Railroad, by the means of

Oct. 1876.]

COUNTY OF CALLAWAY V. FOSTER.

an amendment to its charter, was a lawful exercise of authority.
The cases before cited show that the act we are considering is
not inconsistent with the constitution, as it continued in force
after its adoption as before.
It is difficult to discover any principle which can distinguish
an amendment to the charter of. the Louisiana and Missouri
River Railroad Company, altering its terms and conditions
within its original limits, and of the general nature and scope
of its original charter, from the Cape Girardeau case. The
case of State v. Saline Co., 51 Mo. 350, does not conflict with
this principle.
3. The act of March, 1868, referred to in the Callaway
County bonds, in conneetion with the act of March 10, 1859,
was an amendment of the latter act.
It expressly declares itself to be an amendment of the first
act. Its title is, "An Act to amend an act entitled an act to
incorporate the Louisiana and Missouri Railroad Company, by
increasing the amount of the capital stock of the said company,
defining more explicitly the power of the board of directors to
fix the western terminus of said road, authorizing the location
and construction of a branch road, and conferring upon said
board the necessary powers to carry into effect the several
objects contemplated by their charter, and also by striking out
sects. 11, 18, 30, and 31 of said act." Laws of Mo. 1868,
p. 103.
That the title may properly be examined, and is competent,
see Cin. L. . C. v. Abbott, 39 Mo. 181; State v. Saline Co.,
51 id. 392; 14 id. 205.
The several objects appear to be legitimate subjects of
amendment, and it would ill become us to impute to the legislature of a State an intention to evade the provisions of -is own
constitution, under the guise of an amendment. There is no
indication of such an intention in the case we are considering.
The form in which the amendment is made,'by a new act
throughout, is explained by that article of the Missouri Constitution which requires that no amendment of an act can be
made by striking out and inserting any words, but that "the
act or part of act amended shall be set forth and published at
length as if it were an original act." Accordingly, the amend-

COUNTY OF CALLAWAY v. FOSTER.

[Sup. Ct.

ment is here made, not by making provision merely for the
new points, but by re-enacting the whole of the original act in
all its details, with the alterations, where they are intended to
be made.' A collation of the provisions of- the two acts make
this point quite clear.
The amended-charter attaches to itself all the qualities and
privileges of the old one. State v. Greene Co., 54 Mo. 540;
State v. Callaway Co., 51 id. 395; State v. Sullivan Co., id. 522.
This view is an answer to the objections that the transfer of
the subscription was made to a branch road, and an issue of
bonds made under that subscription, and that such authority
only existed inder the power conferred by the act 6f 1868.
The branch was the original road, so far as Callaway was concerned, with a change of name simply, and the amendment
became a part of the original act.
We find no difficulty, therefore, in holding that a county,
included in the terms of the original act, had power upon its
own authority to subscribe for the stock, and . that a submission
of the question to the electors of the county was not necessary.
The power of this county to subscribe as one of the counties
intended to be included within the terms of the original act is
reasonably plain.
The twenty-ninth and thirty-fifth sections are as follows: "SEcT. 29. It shall b6 lawful for the county court of any county
in which any part of the route of said railroad may be, to subscribe
to the stock of said company; and it may invest its funds in stock
of said company, and issue the bonds of such county to raise funds
to pay the stock thus subscribed, and to take proper steps to protect
the interest and credit of the county. Such county court may appoint an agent to represent the county, vote for it, and receive its
dividends-; and any city, town, or incorporated company may subscribe to the stock of said railroad company, and appoint an agent
to represent its interest, give its vote, and receive its dividends, and
may take proper steps to guard and'protect the interest of said city,
town, or incorporation."
"S1EcT. 35. Said company shall have power to mark out, locate,
and construct a railroad from the city of Louisiana, in the county
of Pike, by the way of Bowling Green, in said county, to some suitable point on the North .Missouri Railroad, intersecting said road
between the southern limits of the town of Wellsburg, in Mfontgom-

Oct. 1876.]

CoUNTY OF CALLAWAY

v.

FOSTER.

ery County, and the northern limits of the town of Mexico, in
Audrain County, thence to the Missouri River at the most eligible
point, on a line the most suitable and advantageous as regards distance, grade, cost of road, and permanent value of same2'

-

The starting-point of the road was fixed at Louisiana, in the
county of Pike. Two points only in the route were indicated;
to wit, Bowling Green, and the crossing of the Missouri Railroad between the ouiter limits of the towns of Wellsburg and
Mexico. The termination was to be upon the Missouri River
at the most eligible point, distance, grade, cost of road, and
permanent value considered. The county of Callaway furnished all the requisites thus set forth. The road as ultimately
built did pasi through Bowling Green, across the Missouri
road between the towns of Mexico and Wellsburg, thence
through the whole length of the county of Callaway to a point
opposite Jefferson City on the Missouri River. We discover
nothing to show that this point might not properly have been
decided by the company to have been a more suitable and
advantageous place at which to terminate its road than any
other upon the Missouri River.
The statute already quoted provides that "it shall be lawful
for the county court of any county, in which any part of the
route of said railroad may be, to subscribe to the stock of smid
company." "May be"'what ? This expression is"incomplete,
and is to be construed with reference to the situation of the
subject-matter. If used in a statute where a railroad already
built was the subject, it would no doubt refer to the presence
or existence there of the road. It would be equivalent to the
word "exists," or " is built," or "in operation," or the like.
But when used in reference to a railroad not yet built, not
located or surveyed, and indeed not yet orgahized, it must have
quite a different meaning. Certain points were given for the
location of the road; as, that it must start from a city named,
it must pass through one place mentioned, and must pass between two others, and must terminate on the Missouri River.
The map given in evidence shows that there.was a large room
for choice thus left in the company. It might pass through
Howard and Boone Counties, terminating at Glasgow, and
omitting Callaway, or it might pass through Callaway, termi-

COUNTY OF CALLAWAY V.

FOSTER.

[Sup. Ct.

nating opposite Jefferson City, omitting Howard and Boone.
This was the intention of the legislature; for the double purpose, no doubt, of enabling the company to select the best
route, and of stimulating rivalry among the different localities
which might wish to obtain the benefit of the location. A
broad construction of the language would be to say that it
meant to authorize a subscription by any county in which the
road may.by law be located. This would include all the counties
before named. It might be held to authorize a subscription by
any county in which the road may be in fact ultimately located.
It is, perhaps, not necessary to pass upon this point with any
more precision than to say, that, upon any reasonable construction of the language, it embraces Callaway, which was one of
the possible sites, and a site ultimately occupied, in fact.
We are of the opinion, therefore, that the subscription
actually made by the county -of Callaway, in January, 1868,
was legal, and that the circumstance that the bonds were
issued at a later date is an immaterial one.
We are of the opinion, also, that the amendments of the
charter, and the subsequent action by which the portion of
road from Mexico through Callaway C6unty, and under such
amendments was made a branch road, and the portion from
Mexico to Glasgow was called the main road, and that the
bonds were issued both under the act of 1859 and the act of
1868, if such were the fact, do not affect the case. The latter
act is an amendment and continuation of the former, and refers
to what was then termed a branch road.
Nor do we perceive that it is necessary to invoke the principle of bona fides.
If our views are sound, the bonds were legally issued under
the authority of a legislative act, and are valid in the hands of
any one who has a legal title to them.
We are of the opinion that the case was well decided by the
Judgment affirmed.
Circuit Court.
MR.

JUSTICE MILLER,

with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE
and MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY,

DAvIs, MR. JUSTICE FIELD,

dissenting.
I dissent from the judgment of the court, on the ground that

Oct. 1876.]

THE

" IDAHO."

575

the subscription of stock to the railroad company in this case
could only be made under the amendatory act of March 24,
1868, and that the constitution of the State then required a
vote of the county to make such subscription valid.

As there

was no such vote, and no recital in the bond or elsewhere to
show that there was, the bonds were void.

THE

" IDAHO."

1. Actual delivery by the bailee on the demand of the true owner, who has the
right to the immediate possession of the goods bailed, is a sufficient defence
of the bailee against the claim of the bailor, and there is no difference in
this regard between a common carrier and other bailees.
2. While a contract of bailment undoubtedly raises a strong presumption that
the bailor is entitled to the thing bailed, it is not true that the bailee thereby
conclusively admits the right of the principal. His contract is to do with
the property committed to him what his principal has directed, - to restore
it, or to account for it. He does so account for it when he has yielded it to the
claim of one who has a right paramount to that of his bailor.
8. If there be any estoppel on the part of the bailee, it ceases when the bailment
on which it is founded is determined by what is equivalent to an eviction
by title paramount; that is, by the reclamation of possession by the true
Qwner.
4. Nor can it be maintained that a carrier can excuse himself for failure to deliver
to the order of.the shipper, only when the goods have been taken from his
possession by legal proceedings, or where the shipper has obtained the goods
by fraud from the true owner.
5. Whether the shipper has obtained, by fraud practised upon the true owner,
the possession he gives to the carrieror whether he mistakenly supposes
he has rights to the property, his relation to his bailee remains the same.
He cannot confer rights which he does not posgess; and, if he cannot
withhold the possession from the true owner, one claiming under him
cannot.
6. While a bailee cannot avail himself of the title of a third person (though that
person be the true owner), for the purpose of keeping the property for himself, nor in any case where lie has not yielded to the paramount title, he is
not answerable if he has delivered the property to its true owner at his
demand.
7. Without asserting that a title to personal property may not be created between
the issue of a bill'of lading therefor and its delivery to the ship, which will
prevail over the master's bill, the court holds, that, in the absence of any
such intervening right, a bill of lading does cover goods subsequently delivered and received to fill it, and that it will represent the ownership of the
goods. Their subsequent removal from the vessel by a person other than
the true owner, either with or without the consent of her officers, cannot
divest that ownership.

