REPORTS OF THE DECISIONS
OF TH

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
OCTOBER TERM, 1876.

HOGE, COmPTROLLER-GENERAL, ET AL., V. RICEOiOD AN

DANVILLE RAILROAD CopANY.
The court will not, in preference to cases pending between private parties, set
down for argument a case in which the execution of the revenue laws of
a State has been enjoined, unless it sufficiently appears that the operations
of the government of the State will be embarrassed by delay.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of South Carolina.
The Richmond. and Danville Railroad Company, a stockholder in the Atlanta and Richmond Air-Line Railroad Company, obtained a decree in the Circuit Court enjoining the
taxing officers of South Carolina from levying and collecting,
and the last-named company from paying, any State, county,
or municipal taxes upon its property within that State, upon
the ground that by its charter it was exempt from such taxation. This appeal was taken from that decree.
Mr. William Stone, Attorney-General of the State of South
Carolina, moved that this cause be advanced on the docket.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WirE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This motion is based upon sect. 949 of the Revised Statutes, which is as follows :VOL. III.

1

2

HOGE ET AL. V. RICHMOND, EC.

R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

"When a State is a party, or the execution of the revenue laws
of a State is enjoined or stayed in any suit in a court of the United
States, such State, or the party claiming under the revenue laws of
a State the execution whereof is enjoined or stayed, shall be entitled, on showing sufficient reason, to have the cause heard at any
time after it is docketed, in preference to any civil cause pending
in such court between private parties."
The original act, to which this section of the revision is
applicable, was passed June 30, 1870 (16 Stat. 176). Until
that time, the order of hearing causes in this court was regulated almost entirely by rule; and we then held that the only
cases of general public interest which should be taken up out
of their regular order were those in which the question in dispute would embarrass the operations of the government while
it remained unsettled. United States v. Possatt, 21 How. 445.
The statute is not imperative. It does not provide that all
cases in which the execution of the revenue laws of the State
is enjoined or stayed shall have preference over others upon
the docket, but only such as, upon a showing, the court is of
the opinion should be heard out of their order. The court
must determine what is 1'sufficient reason" for this preference,
under all the circumstances of the case.
In the present crowded state of our docket, it is incumbent
on us to take care that injustice is not done to "private parties" by the unnecessary advancement of causes affecting
public interests. To that end we now hold, that we will not
give preference to cases in which the execution of the revenue
laws of a State is enjoined, unless it sufficiently appears that
the operations of the government of the State will be embarrassed by delay.
The Illinois Railroad Tax Cases, heard out of their order at
the last term, may be referred to for the purpose of illustration. There the question was as to the constitutionality of
the law under which all the property of railroad corporations
in that State was taxed. The courts of the State had decided
in favor of the validity of the law, and the Circuit Court of
the United States against it. They were class cases; and their
determination would dispose of many other suits of the same
character then pending in the Circuit Court in which inter-

Oct. 1876.]

GAINES ET AL.. V. HALE ET AL.

3

locutory injunctions had been allowed. In addition to this, it
was shown that the action of the Circuit Court, inLgranting
such injunctions, practically suspended not only "the enforcement of the revenue laws of Illinois against railroad corporations, but the collection of the taxes assessed upon the capital
stock and franchises of all other corporations in the State, except so far as such corporations voluntarily pay such taxes."
Under such circumstances, it is easy to see that questions of
great public interest were involved, and that the operatibns
of the government of the State would be embarrassed, so long
as they remained undetermined by this court. Sufficient reason
was shown, and the causes were accordingly advanced.
But here no such circumstances exist. The injunction operates only upon the property of a single corporation. The valile
of the property, or the amount of the revenue to be derived
from it, is not shown. No question affecting the power of the
State to tax other property is involved. The only dispute is
*as to the liability of the property of this single owner to taxation. The actual amount in controversy may be, and probably
is, much less than that in very many other cases waiting their
turn to be heard in the regular call of Q)ur docket. No disputed principle of law affecting any other case is, so far as we
can discover from the record, presented for our determination;
We are of opinion, therefore, that a proper showing has not
been made; but, as we have not before announced in so formal
a manner the rule of practice which we have established for
our government under this statute, leave -is granted to the
appellant to renew the motion if the defects which now existMotion denied.
in the showing can be supplied.

GAINEs ET AL. v. HAL-E ET AL.
Where, in a suit between some of the claimants to the hot springs in Arkansas,
the Supreme Court of that State by its decree refused aid to any of them
against the other, except as to the improvements erected by each respectively
on the property, and as to them saved the rights of the United States, this
court, having decided in Hot Springs Cases, 92 U. S. 698, that the United
States is the owner of the property, affirms that decree.

