RYAN ET AL., V. CARTER ET AL.

[
[Sup.
Ct.

alive in other States than his own, he must reduce it to judgment, and revive that judgment from time to time. Each new
judgment would create a new cause of action, and would prevent the operation of Statutes of Limitation of other States.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the law in question does
not produce any unconstitutional discrimination; and we prefer
putting the case upon this broad ground, rather than to examine
into -the rights of the plaintiffs as a foreign corporation doing
Judgment affirmed.
business in Wisconsin.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG concurred in the judgment of the

court, but -dissented from its opinion upon the second assignment of error.

-R'

xi BT AL. V. CARTER -ET AL.

1. The flrstsection of the act of June 13, 1812 (2 Stat. 748), making further provision for settling the claims to land in the Territory of Missouri, confirms,
proprio vigare, the rights, titles, and claims to the lands embraced by it, and,
to all intents and purposes, operates as a grant.
2. The court adheres to the doctrine, announced in -its previous decisions, that a
confirriatory"statute passes a title as effectually as if it in terms contained a
grant de iovo, and that a grant may be made by a law as well as by a patent
pursuant to law.
8. Said first section is not, by the proviso.thereto annexed, excluded from ope-.
.ating on the right and claim of an inhabitant of a village which is therein
named to an'out-lot, whose title thereto had, on his petition, been recognized
and confirmed by the board of commissioners for adjusting and settling
claims to land in said Territory.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Easterni'Distric of Missouri.
This is an action of ejectment, bro.ught Aug. 27, 1873, for
part of a tract of land known as Survey 422, situate in the
county of' St. Louis, Mo. The parties claimed title under
Auguste Dodier, and defendants relied also on the §tatute of
Limitations.
On the 13th of October,-1800, Dodier asked of the then Spanish
Lieutenant-Governor of Upper Louisiana a concession of five
hundred aqpens of land,; and, on the 14th of that month, the
Lieutenant-Governor ordered that he .should be put in posses-

Oct. 1876.]

-

RYAN ET AL.

V.

CARTER ET AL

sion of the land requested. A survey and plat of the land so
ceded was made by Soulard, surveyor under the Spanish government, and certified by him Dec. 10, 1800, and recorded by
him in the record-book of surveys. Dodier duly filed and presented his claim to the board of commissioners for adjusting
land-titles in the District of Orleans, Territory of Louisiana,
who, on the thirty-first day of July, 1810, issued to him the
following certificate: Commissioners' Certificate, No. 422, July 31, 1810.
"We, the undersigned, commissioners for ascertaining and adjustingj the titles and claims to lands in the Territory of Louisiana,
have decided that Auguste Dodier, original claimant, is entitled to
a patent under the provisions of the second section of an act of the
Congress of the rnited States, entitled IAn Act for ascertaining
and adjusting the titles and claims to land within the Territory
of Orleans and the District of Louisiana,' passed the second day of
March, 1805, for five hundred arpens of land, situate in the District of
St. Louis, on Beaver Pond, as described in a plat of survey, certified
the 10th of December, 1800, and to be found of record in book A,
page 326, of the recorder's office, by virtue of a permission from the
proper Spanish officer, and also of actual inhabitation and cultivation prior to and on the twentieth day of December, 1803."
"JAMES B. C. LUCAS,
CLEMENT B. PENROSE,
FREDERicK BATES.'

The land so confirmed was surveyed in 1817, by the proper
surveyor of the United States, and is known as United States
* Survey No. 422; but the patent reciting the cbnfirmation and
survey was not issued until Aug. 9, 1873.
Dodier died in 1823, leaving heirs-at-law, under whom the
plaintiffs claim title. Dodier and wife conveyed a part of the
land'by deed, bearing date Jan. 18, 1805, to Louis Labeaume,
who died in 1821, having devised the property to his wife, by
will made in 1817 ;-and by-mesne conveyances her title passed "
to the defendant-Caxter. He, and those under whom he claims,
have been in the open, notorious, and undisputed possession of
the demanded premises for thirty-five years bef6re the commencement of this suit. In 1818, on the petition of Labeaume,.
partition was made between him and the heirs of Dodier; but -

RYAN ET AL. V.

CARTER ET AL.

[Sup. Ct.

the land in controversy is not within the boundaries of the
tract described in the report of the commissioners in said partition suit to be set off to Labeaume.
In the year 1822, Susan Labeaume brought an action of trespass quare elausum fregit against Dodier's heirs, in the Circuit
Court of St. Louis County, to which was pleaded the general
issue, and liberum tenementum; whereupon the plaintiff replied
to second plea by novel assignment (describing the close as in
the report of commissioners in the above partition suit). On
-July 27, 1825, the defendants in said suit obtained a verdict
dnd a judgment thereon, and the case was taken by writ of
error to the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri, by which,
on May 25, 1826, the judgment was reversed and the case
remanded, .and on May 8, 1827, defendants again obtained
judgment in the said Circuit Court. From the record of the
said Supreme Court in said cause, it appears that a transcript
of the record of said partition suit of Louis Labeaume v.
Dodier's Heirs, was read in evidence, but that the notice to
defendants in said partition suit was not included in the bill
of exceptions, and was not before the Supreme Court, and that
the conveyance from Auguste Dodier and wife to Louis Labeaume, being admitted by defendants in said trespass suit, was
also read upon the trial of said cause, andy copy thereof preserved in the bill of exceptions taken and filed in said cause.
Prior to and on Dec. 20, 1803, Auguste Dodier was an
inhabitant of the village of St. Louis, possessed and cultivated the land known as United States Survey No. 422, and
had a right, title, and claim thereto. It was an out-lot of the
said village, within the meaning of the act of June 13, 1812,
with definite boundaries and location, prior to and at the date
of the acquisition of Louisiana by the United States.
These are the material facts found by the court below, which,
by wxitten stipflation of, the parties, made a special finding of
the facts.
The court gave judgment for the defeiadants; whereupon the
plaintiffs sued put this writ of error.
Argued.by Mr. -Daniel T Jewett for the plaintiffs in error,
who cited Jagwire v. Tgler, 8 Wall. 650; GibsoiA v. Ckouteau,
13 id. 92; Guitard v. Stoddard,16 How. 494; Clarke v. 1um-

Oct. 1876.]

RYAN ET AL. V. CARTER ET AL.

81

merle, 3d Iho. 620; Glasgow v. Hortiz, 1 Black, 600; Strother
v. Lucas, 12 Pet. 410.
Mr. Xontgomery Blair, contra.
NIB. JUSTICE DA VIs delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendants, and those under whom they claim, have
been in continuous and adverse possession of the lan d in controversy, claiming title to it for more than thirty-five years.
The justice of the case, growing out of such length of possession,
is manifestly with the court below; and we think the law of it
is equally so.
The property in suit is part of a tract of land known as
Survey 422, in the county of St. Louis. The court below, by
stipulation, tried the case, and made a special finding of facts,
on which it based its conclusion of law, that the plaintiffs
could not recover. It is objected that some of these facts were
not warranted by the evidence; but this is not a subject of
inquiry here. If the parties chose to adopt this mode of trial,
they are con3luded by the -propositions of fact which the evidence, in the opinion of that court, establishes. Whether
general or special, the finding has the same effect as the verdict
of a jury; and its sufficiency to sustain the judgment is the only
matter for review in this court. NYorris v. Jackson, 9 Wall. 125;
Flanders v. Tweed, id. 425; Kearney v. Case, 12 id. 275;
Miller v. Life Ins. Co., id. 285.
Both parties claim under Auguste Dodier, to whom the tract
was confirmed in 1810, by the board of commissioners created
to settle the title to lands in the Territories of Orleans and
Louisiana. Tle plaintiffs insist that this confirmation vested
only an equitable title, and'that the Statute of Limitations
did not begin to run until the fee passed out of the United
States by patent, in 1873. On the other hand, the defendants contend that the fee passed directly to him in 1812, by
operation of the act of June 13 of that year (2 Stat. 748) ;
.and, if so,- it is conceded that the Statute of Limitations
gives them title. It becomes necessary, therefore, to inquire
bow f"ar the acts of Congress to protect the rights of property
in the territory acquired from France by the tieaty of April 30,
1803, apply to and affect the title to the land in controversy.
VOL. 111.

6

RYAN ET AL. v. CARTER ET AL.

[Su~p. (1t:

"The United States stipulated tha. the inhabitants of -the ceded
country should be protected in the free enjoyment of their
property; and in discharge of this obligation, and with a
view to ascertain and adjust their claims to land, Congress
passed acts 'it 1805, 1806, and 1807. As the board progressed in its investigations, it was. found that the enforcement of the rules prescribed for its guidance excluded from
confirmation a large number of meritorious claims, and more
liberal provision was made for them by the act of June 13,
1812. Its first section declares "that the rights, titles, and
claims to town or villige lots, out-lots, common field-lots, and
commons in;. adjoining, and belonging to- the several towns
and villages (naming them), in the Territory of Missouri,
which lots have been inhabited, cultivated,- or possessed, prior
to the twentieth day of December, 1803,, shall be, and the
same are hreby, confirmed to the inhabitants of the respective towns or villages aforesaid, according to their- several
right or. rights of common thereto, provided that nothing
herein* contained shall be construed to affect the rights of ary
person claiming the same lands, -or. any part thereof, -vhose
clainis have been confirmed by -the board of commissioners
for adjusting- aid setting claims to -lands in the said Territory."
It does not require the production of profs before
any commission or other tribunal established for that special
purpose,. but confirms; pro._prio vigore, the rights, titles, and
claims to the lands embraced by it, and operates as a grant,
'to al inptents and purposes: Repeated d6cisions of this court
have declared that such a statute passes the title of'.the United
States as effectually as if it contained-in terms agrant de novo,
and that a grant may be made by a' law,.as well as by a patent
pursuant to a law.
The court below found that the lot of ground, now known as.
Survey 422, was an " out-lot" of the village- of St. Louis, with
definite boundaries and location, prior to and at the date of the
acquisition of Louisiana by the United States, and that Dodier
was-in possession of it, and -an inhabitant of the village. It
follows that the confirmation became complete, and vested in
him a legal title, valid against the United States, and all per-sons claiming under it by a subsequent patent, unless his case

06t. 1876.]

RYAN ET AL. V.

CARTER ET AL.

was taken out, of. the enacting clause by the proviso that the
act shall not affect any confirmed claims to the same lands.
How "affect" them? If in the sense of simply actihg upon
them, then his title is excepted from the operation of the act.
But this exception is not within the reason of the proviso,
and the court is at liberty to adopt another construction, if it
may be fairly done, by giving full and just effect to the words
used.
The general rule of law is, that a proviso carves special
exceptions only out of the body of the act; and those who set
up any such exception must establish it, as being within the
words as well as the reason thereof. United States v. Dickson,
15 Pet. 165. Why should Congress wish to exclude Dodier's
title, if it did not conflict with any other, and was embraced
by the general words of the statute ? If it was left incomplete
by the act of 1807, and completed by the act of 1812, there was
certainly no reason for excluding it. It was within the power
of Congress to favor the inhabitants of villages over other
claimants; and the fact that he had documentary evidence of
his title to this out-lot, which the commissioners recognized and
approved, affords no ground for supposing that Congress meant
to deprive him of the benefit of another law dispensing with
this evidence, and still meeting the requirements of his case.
This would lead to unjust consequences; for it would discriminate between villagers, and put claims, supported by paper-title
with possession, on a less favored footing than those resting only
on cultivation and possession. Besides, such a purpose is inconsistent with the avowed object of the law, which is to confirm to
the .villagers, without discriminating in favor of any class, their
rights of. property, whether held- in severalty or in common.
If Congress had intended to exclude confirmed claims, the fair
presumption is, that it would have, in terms, excepted them, or
by some form of words declared their exclusion. But common
fairness required that successful claimants before the board of
commissioners should, in any event, be protected, and that the
general words of the liw should be so limited as not to produce
a conflict of title. It would have been wrong, in legislatiyg for
the inhabitants of ancient villages, to do any thing prejudicial
to those who, having been invited to present their claims to the

RYAN ET AL.

V. CARTER ET AL.

[Sup. 0t.'

board, had obtained its approval of them. This was recognized
by Congress; and, to guard against the possibility of conflict;
the proviso was inserted. No known rule of law requires us to
interpret it according to its literal import, when its evident
intent is different. It may be that the words, taken in their
usual'sense, would exclude .the case of Dodier; but if it can be
gathered, from a view of the whole law, and others in pari materia,that they Were not used in that sense, and if they admit of
another meaning in perfect harmony with the general scope
of the statute, it will be adopted as the declaration of the will
of Congress. Especially is this so when this construction withdraws the least number of cases from the operation of the statute. It is unnecessary to give- the various definitions of the
word "affect."
It is enough to say, that it is often used in the
sense of acting injuriously'upon persons and things; and in this
sense, we are all of opinion, it was used in this proviso. This
interpretation accords with the reason and manifest intent of
the proviso. It unsettles no confirmed title, and secures to the
inhabitants of the villages, according to their respective rights,
the protection which Congress in its wisdom thought proper to
afford them.
If there were. any doubt remaining about the correctness of
this construction, it would be removed by a consideration of the
act of 1807, which is in pari materia. The various laws, from
time to time passed respecting the claims to lands in the Territories of Orleans and Louisiana, were modified as policy required; but they constitute a land system, are 'all in pari
,materia, and, in explaining their meaning and import, are to be
regarded as one -statute. _Patterson v. MWinn, 11 Wheat. 336.
The third section of,the act of 1807 (2 Stat. 440) confirms the
claim of the corporation 'of the city of'New Orleans to the
commons adjacent to the city, and -provides, thai "nothing
herein contained .shall be construed 'to affect' or impair the
rights of any individual or individuals to the said commons
which are derived from any grant of the French or Spanish
governments." The word "impair" is dropped from the proviso in the act of 1812, .doubtless because it was deemed superfluous and unnecessary. There was no 'reason why the ifferent
provisos should have different limitations. Both had a common

Oct. 1876.]

RYAN ET AL. V.

CARTER ET AL.

object, -to
protect individual rights and prevent conflict of
titles. The grants of the New Orleans commons, in the one
case, and of the village lots in the other, were simply on the
condition that no adverse claimant should be injured by them.
If it should turn out that any one was benefited by the grant,
he was not barred from availing himself of it because he had
given another title in .evidence before a regularly constituted
board of commissioners.
Strother v. Lucas, 12 Pet. 410, is cited by the plaintiffs as an
authority in this case; but it can hardly be considered in that
ligl t. It is true that the court treat Lucas's title as "being
a grant by the United States, under the confirmation of the
commissioners and the act of 1812;" but the effect which that
act has- on a lot confirmed by the commissioners was not discussed at the bar, or considered in the opinion, nor has it, to
our knowledge, been heretofore decided by this court.
It is claimed that the effect of the partition suit is to estop
the defendants from setting up title to lands which were not
assigned to Labeaume by the commissioners in partition. But
the lines of partition were incorrect; for the court finds that
the land in controversy is a part of that conveyed to Labeaume by deed from Dodier, and is not within the boundaries
of the land set off 'to him. Besides, neither party recognized
the proceedings in partition as binding; nor were they at all
necessary, as the deed calls for the whole estate in a specified
part of a tract of land. In such a case, the deed ought to and
must control the rights of the parties.
It is unnecessary to notice any other assignments of error, for
these views dispose of the whole case, and affirm the judgment
of the Circuit Court.
Judgment affirmed.

