852

COWDREY ET AL. v. GALVESTON, ETC. R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

CowDItEY EtT AL. V. GALVESTON, HOUSTON, AND HENDERSON RAILROAD COi'A'.ANY ET AL.
1. A receiver is not authorized, without the previous direction of the court, to
incur any expenses on account of property in his hands, beyond what is
absolutely essential to its preservation and use, as contemplated by his
appointment. Accordingly- the expenditures of a receiver to defeat a proposed subsidy from a city, to aid in the construction of a railroad parallel
with the one in his hands, were properly disallowed in the settlement of his
final account, although such road, if constructed, might have diminished the
future earnings of the road in his charge.
2. The earnings of a railroad in the hands of a receiver are chargeable with the
value of goods lost in transportation, and with damages done to property
during his management.
8. Where an attorney and counsellor-at-law, employed by trustees of certain
mortgaged property to foreclose the mortgages, upon a stipulated retaining
fee, entered upon such retainer, commenced the suit, prosecuted it until prevented by the outbreak of the civil war, and, after the termination of the
war, offered to go on with the suit; but in the mean time, the trustees having died, a new suit was commenced aud prosecuted, without his assistance,
by the bondholders (for whose security the mortgages were executed), to
foreclose the same mortgages, in which suit a receiver was appointed, Held, that his claim for his fee was chargeable against the funds obtained
by the receiver from the mortgaged property.

API'EAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Texas.
Submitted on printed arguments by Mr. W. P. Ballinger for
the appellants, and by Mr. B. T. Merrick for the appellees.
Mln. JUSTICE FELD delivered the opinion of the court.
In February, 1867, a suit was commenced in the Circuit
Court of the United S.tates for the Eastern District of. Texas,
for the foreclosure of certain mortgages executed by the Galveston, Houston, and Henderson Railroad Company, a corporation created by the legislature of Texas, and the sale of the
mortgaged property. The mortgages were adjudged valid by
the court, and a sale of the mortgaged property was decreed.
Subsequently, in 1869, by consent of the parties, Cowdrey, one
of the complainants, was authorized to take the charge aid
management of the property, and act as receiver of the court.
He accordingly qualified, and for some years acted as such
receiver, superintending the management of the road of the

Oct. 1876.]

COWDREY ET AL. v. GALVESTON, ETC. R.R. Co.

353

company until it was sold, and disposing, under direction of
the court, of its earnings, and of the proceeds received when
the sale was made. Reports of his proceedings were rendered
from time to time to the court, and received its approval. His
final report was filed in 1874, showing a balance of assets in his
hands of $6,963.99; and the direction of the court as to its disposition was prayed. Exceptions to the allowance of the
account being taken, the matter was referred to a master for
his examination and report. The master refused to allow a
credit for certain expenditures, incurred to defeat a subsidy
from the city of Galveston to aid the construction of a road
parallel with' the one in the hands of the receiver. These
expenditures amounted to $14,029.15, and this sum being added
to the amount of the assets admitted to be in his hands, the
receiver was charged with $20,993.14.
The master allowed certain sums against the company for
goods lost in transportation, and damage done to property
whilst the road was under the management of the receiver,
amounting to $7,565.
The master also allowed a claim of John C. Bullitt, Esq.,
for professional services to the trustees in a previous attempt
to foreclose the mortgages, the complete execution of which
was prevented by the war. The claim was for $5,000, but the
court in its decree reduced the amount to $2,500. The report
of the master, modified as to this amount, was confirmed, and,
by the decree of the court, the receiver was directed to pay the
several amounts allowed, besides certain costs incurred, out of
the proceeds in his hands, in preference to the balance due the
complainants. From this decree the appeal is to this court.
The expenditures to defeat the subsidy proposed from the
city of Galveston were properly disallowed. It was no part of
the receiver's duty to interfere with the construction of a parallel line of railway, or to attempt to defeat any contemplated
aid for such an enterprise. The proposed line may have been
of great importance to the public and necessary to the prosperity of the city, though it might possibly diminish the future
earnifigs of the company whose road was in his charge. At
any rate, as an officer of the court, the receiver could not be
allowed to determine the question of its importance, either to
VOL.

I.

23

354

COWDREY ET

AL.

v. GALVEST0N, E c. R.R. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

the public or the company, and, acting upon such determination, to appropriate funds in his custody to aid or defeat the
measure, without sanctioning a principle which would open the
door to all sorts of abuses. A receiver is not authorized, without the previous direction of the court, to incur any expenses
on account of property in his hands beyond what is absolutely
essential to its preservation and use, as contemplated by his
appointment.
The allowance for goods lost in transportation, and for damages done to property whilst the road was in the hands of the
receiver, was properly made. The earnings received were as
much chargeable with such loss and damage as they were
chargeable with the ordinary expenses of managing the road.
The bondholders were only entitled to what remained after
charges of this kind, as well as the expenses incurred in their
behalf, were paid.
The claim of the intervenor, MNIr. Bullitt, for his professional
services as an attorney and counsellor-at-law, was a meritorious
one. He had been retained, in 1860, by the trustees to foreclose the first and second mortgages embraced in this suit, and
was promised by them a retaining fee of $5,000. Upon his
engagement he went from Philadelphia, the place of his residence, to Galveston, in the State of Texas, and there filed a
bill in the Circuit Court of the United States to foreclose the
mortgages, one of which was for $1,500,000, and the other for
$750,000. Process was issued and served, and issue was taken
in the suit by a demurrer to the bill. The further prosecution
of the suit was prevented by the outbreak of the civil war,
during which the records of the court were destroyed by fire,
and the trustees died. Upon the close of the war, the intervenor
took steps to continue the suit; and, while he was engaged in
correspondence with the representatives of the trustees on the
subject, the present suit was brought by Cowdrey and others,
bondholders, without, consultation with him, and without his
assistance. Under these circumstances, there can be no reasonable doubt of the justice of the claim, or that it was properly
allowed by the master. Of its subsequent reduction to one-half
he does not complain, not having excepted to the decree in this
particular, or appealed from it to this court.

Oct. 1876.]

NORT0N,

ASSIGNEE, v.

SWITZER.

The fact that the retainer was by the trustees in the mortgages, who h ave since died, and that the present suit was prosecuted by the bondholders, the cestuis que trust, does not affect
the position of the claim. The trustees, had they lived, would
,have been entitled to retain out of the funds received by them
sufficient to meet the claim. They would have had an equitable right not merely to be reimbursed from such funds all
reasonable expenses incurred, but also to retain from the funds
sufficient to meet all reasonable liability contracted in the execution of their trust. From the time of the employment of the
intervenor, the funds derived from the mortgaged property
were chargeable with the liability consequent upon the retainer;
and it matters not whether those funds were obtained by the
trustees, or, in consequence of their death or of the action of the
court, by other parties having charge of the property.
Decree affirmed.

NOI.TOx, ASSIGNEE, V. SWITZER.
1. A suit pending against a party at the time he is adjudged a bankrupt, may,
after due notice to his assignee, be prosecuted to final judgment against the
latter in his representative capacity, where he makes no objection to the
jurisdiction and the bankrupt pourt does not arrest the proceedings.
2. Such judgment may be filed with the assignee as an ascertainment of the
amount due to the creditor by the bankrupt, and as a basis of dividends, but
it is effectual and operative for that purpose only.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Louihiana.
Switzer brought suit against Mary Hein and John Hein in
the Second Judicial District Court for the parish of Jefferson,
which, by consent of parties, was transferred to the Fifth District
Court of the parish of Orleans. During its pendency, he suggested that since the institution thereof the defendants had
taken the benefit of the bankrupt law, and that Emory E. Norton had been appointed and qualified as their assignee. The
court ordered that the latter, in his capacity as such assignee,
be made a party to the suit in their place and stead. Process
was personally served upon him; but he failed to appear. The
cause coming on for trial, judgment was rendered in favor of

