WALDEN v. K EVALS.
Opinion of the Court.-

:'the part-of the steamship.. At all events, this court, upon
a careful consideration of- the facts 'found, is satisfied -that
there was such negligence; and that it was the cause bf the
catastrpphe.
Tie decree of tMe Circuit Court is aflrmed, with interest to
be added to the amount from the date of the same.

'WALDEN '. K.NEVALS.
APPEAL FROm

HE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNTED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NIEBRASKA.
Submitted April 1, 188I.-Decided April 13, 1885.

'The lands granted by Congress to the State of Kansas for the benent of the
St. Joseph & Defiver City Railroad Company by the act of July 23, 1866,
were pot open to sale or settlement after the line or route of the road was
"defimtely fixed "; which it was when the map*of the route adopted by
the company was filed with the Secretary of the Interior, and accepted by..
him. Van WyveA v. Xnevaks, 106 U. S. 360, affirmed.

This was a bill in equity to compel a conveyance of land.
Plaintiff below derived title through the grant of lands made
by Congress to the State of Kansas, to aid the St. Joseph &
Denver City Railroad Company. Defendant below derived
title through a patent from the United States, granted after the
company had filed its maps with the Secretary of the Interior.
Decree for plaintiff, from which the defendant below appealed.
.Mr. Delenzo A. Walden, appellant, in person.
.Mr.
MR.

:

X. Woolwoorth for appellee.

JusicE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

The questions presented in this case are similar to those considered and decided in VFanl'Fyck v. ZnJevals, 106 U. S. 360."
By the act of Congress of July 23, 1866, 14 Stat. 210, there

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

was granted to the State of IKansas, for the use and benefit of the
St. Joseph and Denver Railroad Company, in the construction
of a railroad from Ellwood in that State to its junction with
the Union Pacific Railroad, or b branch thereof, not further
west than the 100th meridian of west longitude, every alternate section of land designated by odd numbers, for ten sections in width on each side of the road, to the point of intersection. The grant was accompanied, however, with this qualification-that in case it should appear that the United States
had, when the line or route of the road was "definitely fixed,"
sold any section or part thereof thus granted, or that the right
of pre-emption or homestead settlement had attached to the
same, or that it bad been reserved by the United States for
any purpose whatever, then it should be the duty of the Secretary of the Interior to cause an equal quantity of other lands
to be selected from the odd sections nearest to those designated, in lieu of the lands thus appropriated. The main question here, as in the case mentioned, is, when was the route of
the road to be considered as "definitely fixed," so that the
grant attached to ihe adjoining sections. In the case mentioned we held that the route must be considered as "definitely
fixed" when it had ceased to be the subject of change at the
volition of the company; that until the map designating the
route of the road was filed with the Secretary of the Interior,
the company was"at liberty to adopt such a route as it might
deem best, after an examination of the ground had disclosed
the advantages of different routes. But it was held that when
the route was adopted by the company, and a map designating
it was filed with the Secretary of the Interior, and accepted
by that officer, the ,route was established. In the language of
the act it was "definitely fixed," and could not be the subject
of further change so as to affect the grant except by legislative consent; and that no further action was required on the
part of the company to establish the route. It then became
the duty of the Secretary to withdraw the lands granted from
market, and the court said: " If he should neglect this duty,
the neglect would not impair the rights of the company, howbprove to others. Its rights are not
eiz-r prejudicial it might

'WALDEN v. KNEVALS.
Opinion of the Court.

made dependent upon the issue of the Secretary's order, or
upon notice of the withdrawal being given tb the local land
officers.
Congress, which possesses -the absolute power of
alienatiofi of the public lands, has prescribed the period at
which other parties than the grantee named shall have the
privilege of acquiring a right to portions of the lands specified,
and neither the Secretary, nor anr other officer of the Land
Department, can extend the period by requiring something tbe done subsequently, and until done continuing the right ol
parties to settle on the lands as previously." 106 U. S. 366.
Since t6s decision of that case, the court, in Railway Co. v.
Dunmeyer, 113 U. S. 629, has reconsidered the question and
come to the same conclusion, the receipt of the map in the
land office without objection being considered as equivalent to
its acceptance.
It appears from the agreed statement of facts that previous'
to the 21st of X arch, 1870, the engineers of the railway company surveyed and staked out upon the ground the proposed
line of the road, made a topographical map of the country
through which the line ran, showing the government surveys
and the proposed route 'with reference to the section lines, and
the towns, counties and rivers; that such map was on that day
approved by the board of directors, and n the 25th of the
same month was filed, together witha rt.e
4certificate of
aproval indorsed thereon, with the Secretary of the- Interior,
who approved the same, and on the 28th of the same m onth
transmitted it to the Commissioner of the General Land Office,
with directions to instruct the proper local land officers to
withdraw from sale or other disposal all the odd-numberd
sections falling within the limits of twenty miles on each side
of the line of the route. On the 8th of April following th
Commiisioner transmitted by mail a copy of the map to the
register and receiver of the local land office at Beatrice, in
Nebraska, but it was not received by them until the: 15th of
that mouth. On the 8th of April, 1870, one Clark Irvin en.
tered the lands in question at the land office in Beatrice, and
on the 1st of November, 1871, a patent was issued to him. At
the time of his entry no instructions had been received from

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

the Land Department of the Government that the lands were
withdrawn from market, and he made his entry without any
actual knowledge of the filing of the company's map with the
Secretary, or of his order to withdraw the lands from market.
Subsequently the company applied to the Land Department
for a patent of the lands, and tendered the necessary fees and
charges. The application was- refused on the ground that
Irvin's right of entry had attached to the lands, and a patent
for them had been issued to him. The plaintiff deraigned title
from the railroad company, and the defendant deraigned title
from Irvin, by deed, for which he paid a valuable consideration,
without notice of the claim of the plaintiff. It thus appears
that the defendant, made his entry, and therefore acquired
whatever rights he possesses after the map of the company
designating its route had been filed with the Secretary'of the
Interior, March 25, 1870, and the route had thereby become
definitely established' The title of the company to the adjoin,
ing odd sections was then fixed. No rights could be initiated
subsequently which could affect that title. The entry of the
defendant being on the 8th of April afterwards created no
interest in him, and the patent issued upon that entry passed
none.
All other questions presented in this case are fully considered in -an Iyck .v. Knevals, and we see no ground tochange
the conclusions then reached. For the reasons there stated the
decree of the court below must, therefore, be,
.4ffirmed.

PENN BANK v. FURNESS & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE Ui'NITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued March 31, April 1, 1885.-Decided April 13, 1885.

A, B, & C, -being partners in business, and all believing the firm to be solvent,
C withdraws. A & B pay C a fixed sum as his capital and continue the
business. They borrow money of a bank on the notes and responsibility of

