BOA1
1 L v. DILLA.
Syllabus,

-and are responsible in damages for rejections niade without
reasonable cause, or maliciously.
In the two cases last referred to, the allegations of the comonly ihat the several plaintiffs were legally
show,
plaint
"entitled
to benot
registered as voters, but declared that the refusal
of the registration officers to admit them to the list 'was
wrongful and malicious. The ddmurrers admit the plaintiffs'
case, as thus stated, and therefore ought to have been ov~rruled.
It follows that thejudggnents in the three cases in which Jese
J. .Murphy, Ellen C. Clawson and Hiram B. Cidwson, her
husband,and James X. Barlow aire the resp]ective lintiffs,
are ajrmed as to all the defendant&; in the two c.ases in
which lfary Ann X. Pratt and Mildred E. Randall,and
Alfred Randall,her iusband,are the'plaintiffs resbetively,
* the judgments in favor of the ftve d~fendqnts, Alexander
Ramsey, A. S. Paddock, G. L. Godfrey, A. B. Carleton
and r. 1?. Pettigrew, are affrmed; and as to the defenX
ants, . 1). Hoge, John S. Lindsay and Harmel Pratt,,the
judgme ts are reversed, and as to them'the cases are Iremanded, with instructions to overrulk the demurrers,and
,forfurther proceedings. And it isso ordered.

BOHALL v. DILLA.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TRE "STTE OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted March 10, 1885.-Decided March 23, 1885.

To charge the holder of the legal title to land under a patent of the United
States, as a trustee of another, it must appear that, by the law properly
adbhinistered in the Land Department, the title should have been awarded
to the latter : it is not sufficient to show that there was error in adjudging
the title to the patentee.
Pre-emption laws require a residence both continuous and personal upon the
tract, of the person who seeks to take advantage of them.
Tho settler may be excused for temporary absences from the tract, cauged by
sickness, well-founded apprehensions of violence and other like enumerated

causes.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

This case came before this court from the Supreme Court of
California. The'plaintiff in the-court below, the defendant in
error here, was the holdhr of a patent of the United States
for certain lands situated in Humboldt Cofiihty- in that State,
issued to him under the pre-emption laws upon proof of settlement and improvement, and the present action is to recover
their possession. In his complaint he alleged his ownership
in fee of the premises on a day designated, the entry thereon
of the defendant without license, and the subsequent withhold.
ing of them; also, that the value of the annual rents and
profits of the premises was $800. for which sum and the restitution of the premises lie prayed judgment.
The answer of the defendant denied the several allegations
of the complaint, and set up in a special count, by way of a
cross-complaint, various matters, which, a he insisted, constituted in equity a good defence to the action and entitled him
to a decree'; that he had an equitable right to the premises;
thatthe plaintiff held the title in trust for him; and that the
plaintiff should be required to convey the same to him.
The matters set up as grounds for equitable relief were the
previous settlement upon the premises and their improvement
by the defendant, and certain proceedings taken by him to acquire the title under the pre-emption laws, which were disregarded and held insufficient by the Land Department of the
Government, but which he contended established his right to
the patents.
It appeared from the record and findings of the court that
in October, 1862, the defendant purchased from his brother
William, then in occupation of the -land, the possessory right
of the latter to the premises and his improvements thereon,
received a deed from him, and immediately thereafter went
into possession, which was held until March 23, 1865; that on
that date, in consideration of $600, partly paid in cash and
partly payable in instalments, the defendant contracted to convey the premises and' improvements to the plaintiff Dilla, who
thereupon was put into possession and continued in possession
until the 5th of May, 1868; that he was then evicted under a
judgment obtained by the defendant upon the contract of pur-

BOHALL vi DILLA.
Statement of Facts.

chase, and the latter was restored to the.possession. '.In. July,
1869, the defendant removed to Arcata, about twenty miles
distant, and remained there until October, 1871, when his
family went back to the land, followed by himself in December. In April, 1872, he moved' to Mattole, about eighty miles
distant, and there remained until August, 1874, when he again
returned. In October following .he again moved to, Arcata
and did not return until March, 1875.
. The land was surveyed in 1873, and the plat thereof filed in
the land office in October of that year. On the 3d of thiat
month the defendant Bohall filed his declaratory statement,
alleging settlement on October 22, 1862, a-d claiming the land.
On the 26th of December following, the plaintiff Dilla fied his
declaratory statement, alleging settlenient under the pre-emption laws on the 25th of March, 1865, and claiming the land.
A contest thus arose in the local land office between these
parties as to which was entitled to the land under the -preemption laws. The register and receiver of the land office
differed in their judgment, the receiver holding that the land
should be awarded to Dilla, and the ;register that it should go
to Biohall. The contest was thereupon transferred to the General Land Office at Washington, and the Commissioner sustained the claim of Dilla, holding that, from the. time of his;
settlement in 1865, until ejected in 1868, he had fully complied
vith the law; that his absence since then was compulsory, as
he was unable to make a residence on the land without being
in contempt of the court, under whose judgment he was.
evicted; that his non-residence was for that reason excusable,
and should not be allowed to work against him. Bat as to
Bohall, the Commissioner held that his residence on the land
had not been continuous since his settlement, but had been interrupted by residence elsewhere for several periods; and that
the occupation of tenants during such periods did not satisfy
the provisions of the pre-emption laws, which required the continuous personal residence of the pre-emptor; and therefbre
his -claim was rejected. The decision of the Commissioner
was affirmed on appeal by the acting Secretary of the Interior.
It is upon this ruling, charged to .be erroneous, that the devOL. cxav-4

OCTOBER TER1, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

fendant relies to maintain his claim for equitable relief. The
local State courtupon these facts, and others not material to
the case, adjudged that the defendant was entitled to the decree prayed; but the Supreme Court of the State held other.wise, and reversed the judgment; and, as there was no finding
as to the value of the rents and profits of the premises, ordered
a new trial if the plaintiff so elected. Upon the filing of the
remittitur in the lower court, the plaintiff waived his privilege
of anew trial, and the court thereupon, on the pleadings and
previous findings, gave judgment for the plaintiff, which was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State; and this judgment was brought here for review.
Ar.S. _V Buck and -Mr. TF. I. Cope for plaintiff in error.
.ibr. TVaZter Van Dyke, for defendant in error.
MR.JUSTicE FIELD, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The system of pleading in civil cases in the courts of California permits an equitable defence to be set up in a special
count, by way of cross-complaint, in the answer to an action
for the possession of lands. The cross-complaint is in the
nature of a bill in equity, and must contain its material allegations, disclosing a case which, if established, would entitle the
defendant to a decree enjoining the further prosecution of the
adtion, or directing that the title be conveyed to him. This
equitable defence is therefore to be first considered, for according to its disposition, will the necessity exist for further proceedings in the action at law, in which the legal title of the
parties will alone control. Quinby v. Con an, 104 U. S.420;
Estrada v. Murphy, 19 Cal. 248 and 273; Arguello v. Edinger,
10 Cal. 150.
We do not think the claim of the defendant to the equitable
relief he seeks can be sustained on the grounds stated in his answer or cross-complaint. To charge the holder of the legal title
to land under a patent of-the United States, as a trustee of
another, and to compel him to transfer the title, the claimant
must present such a case as will show that he himself was en-

BOHALJL v. DILLA.
Opinion of the Court.

titled to the patent from the Government, dnd that in consequence of erroneous rulings of the officers of the Land Department upon the law applicable to the facts found, it was refused
to him. It is not sufficient to show that there may have been
error in adjudging the title to the patentee. It must appear that.
by the law properly administered the. title should have been
awarded to the claimant. Sme,ting Co. v. _Yen. p, 104: i:S..636,
647; Boggs v. .Merced./iningCo., 14 Cal. 279, 363. It is therefore immaterial for the decision of this case what our judgment
may be upon the conclusions of those officers as to the possession of the patentee. It is plain that the defendant, Boball,
did not bring himself within the provisions of the pre-emption
laws. Those laws are intended for the benefit of persons
making a settlement upon the public lands, followed by residence and improvement and the erection of a dwelling thereon.
This implies a residence both continuous and personal. No
such continuous residence was shown on the part of Bohall.
He was placed in possession of the premises under the judgment of the State court in [ay, 1868; and it was necessary to
prove that he occupied them coptinuously after filing his
declaratory statement. It was shown, however, that he resided elsewhere from July, 1869, to December, 1871, and from
April, 1872, to August, 1874. Though he claimed the' land for
six years he and his family resided elsewhere during four of
them, and no sufficient excuse for such residence was offered.
It is only under special circumstances that residence away from
the land is permissible. The settldr may be excused for temporary absences caused by well founded apprehensions of
violence, by sickness, by the presence of an epidemic, by judicial compulsion, or by engagement in the military or naval
service. Except in such and like cases the requirement of a
continuous residence on the part of the settler is imperative.
The alleged fraud of Dilla in obtaining possession under the
alleged contract, if any such fraud existed, could have had no
effect upon the defendant's residence after his restoration to the
land in M ay, 1868.
As he could not maintain his equitable defence, the plaintiff
was entitled to judgment upon his legal title as shown by his
Judgment affirmed.
patent.

