OCTOBER TER-M, 1884.
Syllabus in Moore v. Greenhow.

United States, it may be sued by its own citizens. This would
be to deprive the State, with regard to its own citizens, of its
sovereign right of exemption from suit.
It seems to us that the absurdity of this proposition is its
sufficient answer. Unless the State chooses to allow itself to
be sued, it cannot be sued; it has this prerogative if no other.
It is admitted, in point of form, that it ca'inot be sued by the
citizens of other States, or of foreign States, because of the
Eleventh Amendment. The whole argument of the opinions
of the majority of the court is directed to the object of showing
that the State is not sued in the suits under consideration.
We do not remember that it is anywhere contended that the
State can be sued by its own citizens, against its own law,
merely because the Eleventh Amendment does not in terms
extend to that case.
In our judgment none of these suits can be maintained, for
the reason that they are in substance and effect suits against
the State of Virginia.
We have not thought it necessary or proper to make any -emarks on the moral aspects of the case. If Virginia or any
other State has the prerogative of exemption from judicial prosecution, and of determining her owu public policy with regard
to the mode of redeeming her obligations, it is not for this
court, when considering the question of her constitutional rights%
to pass any judgment upon the propriety of her conduct on the
one side or on the other.

MOORE v. GREENHOW, Treasurer.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
VIRGINIA.

Antoni v. Greenhww, 107 LT.S. 769, deciding that the Act of Virginia of January 14, 1882, affords an adequate remedy to the tax-payers required to pay
money in lieu of coupons in payment of a license tax affirmed ; and a writ
of mandamus against an officer of that State refused.

VIRGINIA COUPON CASES.

339

Opinion in Moore v.Greenhow.

3r.William L. Royall, M11r. Daniel Hf. Camberlaia [r.
William iB. Hornblower'was with him on thebrief], 31>. Wager
Swayne and 3Mr. Tilliam f. Evarts for plaintiff in error.
3r.F. S. Blair, Attorney General of the State of Virginia,
3r.Richard T. 3ferrick and 31>. !Attorney-Generalfor defendanit in error.
MR. JusTiCE MAL.rnnws delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error filed his petition, on April 26, 1884, in
the Circuit Court of the City of Richmond, against Greenhow,
the defendant, as treasurer of the City of Richmond, praying
for a rule nisi, commanding the said Greenhow to show cause
why a peremptory mandam should not be awarded to the
plaintiff, commanding the said treasurer to issue t6 the petitioner a certificate in writing stating that he had made the deposit required by law in payment of his license tax, as a sample
merchant in said city. The petition set forth that the tender
made in payment of this deposit consisted of coupons cut from
bonds issued by the State of Virginia, and, by contract with
the State therein declared receivable in payment of all taxes,
debts, demands and dues to the State, and that the tender was
reiused by the treasurer, and a certificate of deposit withheld,
because the 112th section of an act of the General Assembly of
Virginia, approved March 15, 1881, for the purpose of assessing
taxes on persons, property, and incomes and licenses, requires
that all license taxes shall be paid in gold or silver coin, United
States treasury notes,'or national bank notes, and not in coupons, and another act of the General Assembly of the State,
approved XIarch 7, 184-, to regulate the granting of licenses,
likewise forbids the payment of license taxes in coupons.
The alternative writ prayed for was denied by the. Circuit
Court of the City of Richmond, and, on a petition for a -writ
of error, its judgment dismissing the petition therefor was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Appeals of the State.
This being a case in which, by mandamus, the plaintiff in
error seeks to compel the officers of the State of Virginia specifically to receive coupons instead of money in payrment cf

OCTOBER TERMI, 1884.
Syllabus.

license taxes, it comes within the exact terms of the decision of
a majority of this court in Antoni v. Greenhow, 107 U. S. 769,
according to which the plaintiff in error.is remitted to the
remedy provided by the act of January 14, 1882, entitled "An
Act to prevent frauds upon the Commonwealth and the holders
of her securities in the collection and disbursement of revenues."

The judgment of the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia
is, therefore,
Afflzned.
AIR. JUSTICE FIELD and MR. JUSTICE HARLAN adhere to the
views expressed in their dissenting opinions in Antoni v. Greenhow, but they agree that the principles announced by the
majority in that case, if applied to the present case, require an
affirmance of the judgment below.

EAST ALABAMXA RAILWAY COMPANY v. DOE exd en.
VISSCHER.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

31IDDLE DISTRICT OF ALABABLA.
Argued March 20, 1885.-Decided April 13, 1885.
Various owners of lands in Alabama granted to a railroad corporation of that
State, "and its assigns," in 1860, a right of way through the lands, to make
and run a railroad, the corporation having a franchise to do so and to take
tolls ; and it obtained a like right, as to other land, by statutory proceeding. It graded a parc of the,line. V., a judgment ckeditor of the corporation, in 1867, levied an execution on the right of .way, and it was sold to
V., and the sheriff deeded it to him, and be took possession of the road-bed.
In 1if0, he contracted with another railroad corporation to complete the
grading of the line of road for so much per mile, and, on being paid, to
transfer to it all his title to the franchise, right of way and property of
the old corporation. He completed the work, and was not paid in full,
but gave possession of the road, in 1871, to the corporation, and its franchises and road and property passed, In 1880, to another corporation, the
defendant, against whom V. brought an action of ejectment, to recover the
road-bed: Held,

