VIRGINIA COUPON'. CASES.
Opinion in Marye v. Parsons.

MARYE, Auditor, and Others, v. PARSONS.
APPEAL Fnom THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNTED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.

The contract right of a coupon-holder under the Virginia act of March 80,
1871, whereby his coupons are receivable in payment of taxes, can be exercised only by a tax-payer ; and a bill in equity, for an injunction to restrain tax collectors from refusing to receive them, when tendered in
paymeat of taxes, will not lie in behalf of a coupon-hblder who does not'
allege himself to be also a tax-payer. Such a bill calls for a decree declaring
merely an abstract right, and does not show any breach of the contract, or
other ground of relief.

XM. F S. Blair, Attorney-General of the State of Virginia,
and X. Waler
r
B: &taplesfor appellants.
.2tr.Richa'd Z. 3faury and .2r1. Wager Swayne for appellee.
[fr. Daniel IT Cawnberlain filed a brief for the same.]
MATLri-ws delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellee, who was complaiiant below, a citizen of New
York, filed his bill in equity, in the Circuit Court-of the-United
States for the Eastern District of Virginia, .against Morton
Marye, described as Auditor of the Commonwealth of Virginia; Samuel C. Greenhow, Treasurer of the City of Richmond; A. L. Hill, Treasurer of the City of Norfolk, and V. G.
Dunnington, Treasurer of the City of Lynchburg; R. B.
Munford, Commissioner of Revenue for the City of Richmond,
Charles W..Price, for the City of Lynchburg, and Charles D.
Langley, for the City of Norfolk, all citizens of. Virginia.
The complainant avers in his bill that he is the owner of
overdue copupons to the amount of $28,010, cut from bonds
of the State of Virginia issued under the act of March 30, 1871,
which coupons are receivable, by the terms of that act, in
payment, at and after maturity, -for all taxes, debts and demands. due the State. A list of these coupons, described by
the numbers and amounts of the bonds, is exhibited with the
MR. J UsTICE

OCTOBER TERM,

T884.

Opinion in Marye v. Parsons.

bill. He claims that these coupons constitute a contract with
the State, by which it agreed to pay the amount of each to the
holder at maturity, and, second, in case of default, that the
holder should have the right to assign or transfer the same to
any tax-payer or other debtor of the State, with the quality of
being received for taxes and other demands due the State, and
,with the guarantee that the State would receive them specifically in paymentpro ta to for any such taxes and demands,
aid that they should be accepted by any of her tax collectors
from any of her tax-payers or debtors, in discharge and payment
of such taxes or dues.
The defendants to the bill, it is.alleged, are officers of the
State, charged severally with the collection of certain taxes
and license fees andi other dues to the State; and it is charged
txat, in pursuance of certain statutes -passed since the act of
'March 30, 1871, and the issue of the bonds and coupons under
it, they are forbidden to receive these' and similar coupons in
payment of taxes and other dues to the States, which statutes,
it is averred, impair the obligation, of the contract between the
'State and the holder of its coupons, and are accordingly in violation of the Constitution of the United States, and are null and
,void; but that, nevertheless, the defendants, as officers of the.
State, as is publicly known, habitually refuse to accept coupons
when tendered by t Lx-payers, in payment of taxes and other
dues to the State, with the collection of which they are
severally charged, and the General Assembly of Virginia 'has
°also passed statutes repealing all laws which provided any
remedy for the enforcement of the right to have them so
received.
The bill then proceeds as follows:
"And your petitioner furthermore shows that, confiding in
-his right to a specific performance of said contract, and in his
title to equitable relief, should the same be denied, he bath
made arrangements with sundry tax-payers of Virginia to use
his above coupons in' payment pf their taxes and license taxes,
now. due, by which arrangement, if the said coupons- can be
used, without delay or difficulty, he will, receive nearly par
therefor, and thus be able to have .his coupons collected.

VIRGINIA COUION CASES.
Opinion in Marye v. Parsons.

But, unless they are so accepted in payment when tendered,
the said tax-payers will not use them at all, because they are
compelled to pay their taxes forthwith under heavy penalties,
and to obtain their licenses immediately, or bease from business, so that, if the collectors of these taxes continue to refuse
to accept these coupons, and so render necessary an appeal to
the courts, and a separate action by each tax-payer upon each
tender, such refusal will be tantamount to an utter destruction
of the rights of your petitioner, because delays will thus occur
which the tax-payers cannot submit to for the above-named
reasons and others, and thus your petitioner will be deprived
of the benefit of the arrangements he has made, as well as of
all opportunity of having .his coupons so used at any tine
save in small amounts and at-rare intervals.",
The prayer for relief is as follows:
"In tender consideration whereof, and inasmuch as your
petitioner is without adequate relief save in a court of equity,
wherein such matters are properly cognizable, and inasmuch as
he will suffer great and irreparable loss and damage, exceeding
$500 -in' amount, unless relief is afforded him immediately, and
the above-named officers are required to perform specifically
the contract aforesaid, and receive his said coupons in payment
of all or any of the dues and taxes above-named immediately
upon their being tendered therefor by any tax-payer or applicant for a license, and to avoid a multiplicity of .suits and prevent an obstruction of justice, he prays that Morton ]Marye,
Auditor of Virginia, Samuel C. Greenhow, A. L. Hill, and V.
G. Dunnington, Treasurers of the Cities of Richmond, Norfolk,
and Lynchburg, respectively, and R. B. Munford, Oharles D.
Langley and Charles W. Price, Commissioners of the Revenue
for said cities, respectively, be made parties defendant hereto,
with apt words to charge them, and may be required on oath
to- answer fully the allegations hereof.
"And that the 'said defendants, their assistants, clerks; and
agents, be required and compelled to specifically perform the
said coupon contract according 'to its legal tenor and effect,
and to accept your orator's said coupons, or any of them, from any tax-payer presenting them or any of them in payment of

OCTOBER TERM, 1is.
Opinion in TMarye v. Parsons.

his taxes, license taxes, or other dues, and to-receipt therefor,
or.certify the payment and deposit thereof, in cases of applica
tions for license, in precisely the same form and'with precisely
the same force and effect as they would do if said tender, payment, or deposit were made in money. ' Aid that your honors
will decree said coupons to be genuine, legal coupons, legally
receivable for all taxes, debts, and demands due the State of
\Tirginia, and especially for all license taxes or assessments by
whateyer name the same may Be called. And to the end that
'your orator may have full relief in the premises he also prays
that a preliminary restraining order and injunction ihay be
issued with.iut delay, enjQining- and restraining the said defendants, their assistants; clerks, and agents, and each and
every one of them, from refusing to accept any of the coupons
named in the Exhibit A hierewith, in full payment pro tanto
of the taxes,. license taxes, or other dues, due by any tax-payer
to the.State who may tender-the same in payment thereof, and
.enjoining and restraining theT, from ,r~fusiug to execute and
,.deliver forthwith to such tax-payer his tax-bill, duly receipted,
.or to an applicant for a license a certificat that the amount of
coupons tendered by such applicant has been deposited with
him, in payment of the, tax or deposit required or assessed for
said license, and from refusing,. immediately upon-the presentation of such certifiate, to grant and issue the license applied
for to such applicant, all in-the same manner, and to have precisely the same force and effect as if said payments were made
in coin or currency."
There is also a prayer for general relief.
Thele. was a final decree on bill, answer, replication and
proofs, granting the injunction as prayed for, and the defendants appealed.
This bill is without precedent, and should have been dismissed. It is a clear case,-as stated, of damnum absquo injurih.
So far as the contract with the complainant was, that the State
should pay to him his coupons at maturity, there is, no doubt,
a breach; but he asks no relief as to that, for there is no
remedy by 'suit to compel the State to pay its debts. So far
as the contract was to receive the coupons (f the complainant

VIRGINIA COUPON CASES.
Opinion in Marye v. Parsons.

in payment of taxes and other dues to the State, there is no
breach, for he does not allege that any of them have been
tendered by any tax-payer cr debtor to the State in payment
of taxes or other dues; nor that there has been a refusal on
the part of any tax collector, or other officer of the State
charged with the colletion and receipt of taxes and dues to
the State, to receive them in payment therefor. Personally
the complainant .has no right to offer them for such purpose,
for he owes no taxes or other debt to the State. There is
nothb -rsh( wn in the bill by which-he is prevented from transferring themao others who would have the legal right to us6
them in that way, except that, being discredited for such uses
by the previous refusals of the officers of the State to receive,
other, but similar, coupons, the complaiifant can find no one
willing to purchase them from him at a reasonable price for
such purposes. This damage is not actionable, because it is
not a direct and legal consequence of a breach of the contract,
and is not distinguishable from the damage any creditor nmight
suffer from the known inability or unwillingness of his debtors
to perform their obligations. Such discredit might, and oftefr
does, result in the bankruptcy and financial ruin of the creditor, but no action lies to recover damages for the consequential loss, which the law does not connect with the default, as
cause and effect. To enable-the complainant to avail himself
of the benefit of his coftract with 'the State, to receive his
coupons in payment of taxes, he must first assign them to some
one who has taxes to pay, as he has not; but when he does so,
by the assignmeit, he has lost his interest in the contract and
his right to demand its performance, all right to which he has
transferred with the coupons. It is only when in the hahds'of
tax-payers or other debtors that the coupons are receivable in
payment of taxes and debts due to the State.
The bill as framed, therefore, calls for a declaration of an
absfract character, that the contract set out requiring coupons
to be received in payment of taxes and debts due to the State
is valid; that the statutes of the General Assembly of Virginia
impairing its obligations . ire contmrary
. e Conktitutioh of
the United States, and therefore vdf)ro;--Thcr.that it is the legal

OOTOBER TER

, 1884.

Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C.J., Miller, Bradley, Cray, JJ.

duty of the collecting officers of the State to receive them
when offered in payment of such taxes and debts.
But no court sits to determine questions of law in thesi.
There must be a litigation upon actual transactions between
real parties, growing out of a controversy affecting legal or
equitable rights as to person or property. All questions of law
arising in such cases are judicially determinable. The present
is not a case of that description.
The decree of the Circuit Court is accordingly reversed, and
the catuse is remanded, with directions to dismiss the bill.
MR. JusTIcE BRADLEY, with whom concurred the CHIEF
MRi. JUSTICE MILLER and Mn. JUSTICE GRAY, dissenting.

JUSTIcE,

The Chief Justice and Justices Miller, Gray and myself dissent from the opinions and judgments of the majority of the
court in which they sustain the claims of the holders of coupons
against the State of Virginia, and I have been requested to
state the grounds on which our dissent is based. And, first,
those which apply to the case of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company. This company is a corporation of the State
of Maryland, and operates, as lessee, certain railroads situated
in Virginia. It filed a bill in equity in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Western District of Virginia, alleging
a tender of coupons in payment of the taxes due upon the railroads in its possession, and praying for a decree declaring that
such tender (with a deposit of the coupons in court) amounted,
to payment, and that the proceedings of the auditor in imposing a penal assessment for pretended non-payment of the. taxes
were void, "and that an injunction be issued to restrain the
treasurer from seizing "or selling any of- the property of the
company for the said taxes.
The fundamental ground of our dissent is, that this proceeding, and all the other proceedings on these coupons brought
here for our review, are virtually suits against the Stagre of
Virginia, to compel a specific performance by the State of her
agreement to receive the said coupons in payment of all taxes,
dues and demands. However just.such a proceeding may seem
in the abstract, or however willing courts might be to sustain

VIRGINIA COUPN1

CASES.

3gl

DissentingOpinion: Waite, 0;J., Miller, Bradley, Gray, JJ.

it if it were constitutional, yet, looking at the case as if really
is, we regard it as directly repugnant to the Eleventh Amendment of the Constitution, which declares that "the judicial
power of th6 United' States shall not be construed to extend
to any suit in law or equity commenced.or prosecuted against
any one of the United States, by citizens of anothe State, or
by citizens or subjects of any foreign State."
. The counsel for the bondholders press upon our attention
that provision of the Constitution which declares th-at no State
shall pass any law impairing the obligation.of a contract, and
insists that the laws passed by the Legislature of Virginia forbidding the receipt of cou.pons for taxes, sinc.e the passage of
the act of 1871 by which they were made receivable; are unconstitutional and absolutely void, and that no officer or tax
collector of the State Is bound to regard, but, on the'contrary,
each is bound to disregard them. So that we have one provision of the Constitution set up against the bther, and are asked
to enforce that relating to contracts by regarding the individual
officers as the reaLparties proceeded against, and ignoring the
fact that, in the matter of receiving coupons in payment, of
taxes, the officers only represent the State. By this technical
device it is supposed that the Eleventh'Amendment may be
evaded. In our 'opinion this is not a sound or fair interpretation of the Constitution. ' If the contract clause and -the
Eleventh Amendment come into conflict, the latter has paramount force. It wat adopted as an amendment to the Constitution, and operates as an amendment of every part of th6
Constitution to which it is at any time found to be repugnant.Every amendment of a law or constitution, revokes, alters or
adds something. It is the last declared will of the law-maker,
and has paramount force and effect. The States became dissatisfied with certain parts of the Constitution as constlued by
the courts, whereby, in a manner not anticipated, they were
subjectdd to be dragged into court like a common delinquent.
at the suit of individuals. They demanded that thi should be
changed, and it was changed by the Eleventh Amendment.
The language of the Constitution was not changed, but it b6-,
came subject and subordinate to the paramount declaration of-

OCTOBER TERM,

884.

'Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C.J., Miller, Bradley, Gray. J.

the amendment. The Constitution still declares that no State
shall pass any law impairing the obligation of a contract; bat
the effect of the amendment is that, even if a Stte should pass
a law impairing the validity of its own contract ,no redress can
be had for the enforcement thereof against le State in the
federal courts. In other words, in consequence of the amendment, no State can be coerced into a fufilment of its contracts or other obligations to individuals by the instrumentality of the Federal Judiciary. It is true, itcannot pioceed
against them contrary to its contract; but, on the other hand,
it cannot be proceeded against on its contract. All those who
deal with a State have full notice of this fundamental condition. They know, or are bound to know, that they must depend upon the faith of the State for the performance of its
contracts, just as if no Federal Constitution existed, and cannot
resort to compulsion unless the State chooses to permit itself
to be sued.
Moreover, the Eleventh Amendment is not intended as a
mere formula of words, to be slurred over by subtle methods
of interpretation, so as to give it a literal compliance, without
regarding its substantial meaning and purpose. ' It is a grave
and solemn condition, exacted by sovereign Slates, for the
purpose of preserving and vindicating their sovereign right
to deal with their creditors and others propounding claims
against them, according to their own views of what may be
required by public faith and the necessfties of the body politic.
We have no right, if we were disposed, to fritter away the
substance of this solemn stipulation by any neat and-skilful
imunipulation of its words. We are bound to give it its full
and substantial meaning and effect. It is only thus that all
public instruments should be construed.
Now, what is the object of all this litigation which fills our
courts in reference to the Virginia bonds and coupons, but an
attempt, through the medium of the federal courts, to coerce
the State of Virginia into a fulfilment of her contract? To
enforce a specific performance of her agreement? It is nothing less. That is the object of the bill in the case of the
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company. That is the object,

VIRGINIA COUP'.ON dASES.

333

Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C.J., Miller, Bradley, G'y, JJ.

of the bill of Parsons against the State Auditor and otherg.
That is also the object of those actions of detinue and' trespass.
which- are brought against the collectors of Richmond and
other places. Injunctions are sought, mandamuses are, sought,
damages are sought, for the sole purpose of enforcing a specific'
performance of the engagement made by the State by the act
of 1871, to receive the coupons of its bonds issued under that,
act in payment of taxes and other dues to the State.
There is no question about the validity of the taxes. They
are admittedly due. The officer is'entitled to c6llect them;
§isauthority is undisputed. The coupons are tendered in pay.meni-not as money, for they have no quality of money-+-bu .
as a set-off, which, as is insisted, the State has agreed to allow.
The tax-payer stands on this agreement. : That. is the situation ; and that is the whole of it. He stands on the agreeihnt
and seeks to enforce it. All suits undertaken for this end are,
in truth and reality, suits against the State, to compel a -coin-,
pliance with its ageement..
A set-off is nothing but a cross-action, and can no more beenf6rced against a State without its consent than ? direct action'can be. " When set-offs are allowed against the sovereign,
it is always by virtue of some express statute.
'It is argued, however, that these coupons'are not set-offs, but
cash. How it can be pretended that they are cash it is difficult
to comprehend. To regard them as dash would make them
unconstitutional and void under that clauseof the Constitutioi,
which prohibits any State. from emitting bills of credit. But
4t is-insisted that, 'if not cash, the State agreed that they should
be received as cash.. Then, it is the agreement which is relied
on; and, as before said, it is the performance. of this agree7
ment which is sought to be enforced.,
Another'argument made use of to show th'at he coupons are'
not set-offs; is, that by virtue of the agreement to receive them
in payment, they inhere in the claim for taxes. as a ground of
extingulishment, and not as a distinct counterdemand. This
cannot be 'true, because "taxes imposed by the State, or by its,
authority, are pure: and unmixed duties, accruing year(by year
for the ,public.service, without any relation to, or dependency

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C.J., Miller, Bradley, Gray, JJ.

upon, collateral obligations. Whether the tax-payer has or
has not any coupdn., is an accidental circumstance in no way
affecting his taxes. If he has them, and does not cender them,
his taxes must be paid; if he has them, and does tender
them, they can only be tendered by way of set-off ; for, as we
have seen, they have no necessary connection with or relation
to the taxes until they are so tendered.
The coupons, then, are tendered, and the tax collector declines to receive them. The State does not permit him to receive them. By subsequent legislation it has declared that the
taxes must be paid in money, and that the tax collector must
receive nothing else in payment, and that coupons, if offered,
must be investigated in a juridical way to ascertain their genuineness before they will be paid, and when so ascertained, the
provision for paying them is ample. The officers have no power
but what the State gives them. They act for and on behalf
of the State, and in no other way. To sue them, therefore,
because they will not receive the coupons in payment, is virtually
to sue the State. The whole object is to coerce the State. To
say otherwise is to talk only for effect, without regard to the
truth of things.
If the taxes were not due, or were unconstitutional, and the
collector should attempt to collect them, by seizing property
or otherwise, it would be a different thing. There would then
be an invasion of the citizen's property without lawful authority. That would be a trespass on the part of the officer for.
which he would be properly liable in suit. So, if the tax-payer
should tender the amount of his tax in lawful money and the
collector should refuse it, and should proceed to distrain for
the tax, then bewould also be a trespasser.
But neither of these things is the case. The tax is due-undisputedly due; no monef is tendered; the tax-payer only
offers to set off the coupons, which are nothing but de bills
of. the State, and. pleads the States collateral agreement to receive them. This is not money, and beas no resemblance to
,money. It is simply a promise. The State; for reasons of its
own, declines to comply with its agreement in mode and form,
and.forbids its officers to receive the coupons in payment of

VIRGINIA COUPON CASES.
Dissenting Opiiin: Wait,, C.J., Miller, Bradley, Gray, J.

taxes. The tax-payer insists that the State shall comply with,
its agreement. All the proceedings instituted by him to en-'
force the receipt of the coupons, or, to obtain redress against
the collector for not receiving them, or for, proceeding to collect the tax, have that object alone in view-to compel the
State to fulfil its agreement. It is idle to say that the proceeding is only against the officers. That is a mere pretence.
The real object is to coerce the State through its officers; .to
compel a specific performance by the State of its agreement.
It all comes back to this.
But it is said that it is not the State, but the government of
the State, which declines to receive the coupons, contrary to,
engagement. It is said that the government does not represent
the State when it does an unconstitutional act, or passes an unconstitutional law. Whilst this may be averred, as it was
averred in Texas v. White, 7 Wall. 700, when the government
of a State attempts to force the State -from its constitutional
relations with the United States, and to produce a disruption
of the fundamental bonds of the national compact; and whilst
in such a case it may be admissible to say, that the government
of the State has exercised a usurped authority, this mode of
speech is not admissible in ordinary cases of legislation and
,public administration. A State can only'act by and through
its constituted authorities, and it is represented by them in all
the ordinary exhibitions of sovereign power. It may act
wrongly; it may act unconstitutionally; but to say that it is
n6t the State that acts is to make a misuse of terms, and tends
to confound all just distinctions. It also tends, in our judgment,
to inculcate the dangerous doctrine that the government may
be treated and resisted as a usurpation whenever the citizen, in
the exercise of his private judgment, deems its acts to be unconstitutional.
But, then, it will be asked, has the citizen no redress against
the unconstitutional acts or laws of the State? -Certainly he
has. There is no difficulty on the subject. Whenever his
life, liberty, or property is threatened, -assailed or invaded by.
unconstitutional acts, or by an attempt to execute unconstitutional laws, he may defend -himself, in every.proper way, by

336

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Dissenting Opinion:, Waite. C.3., Miller, .Bradley, Gray, JJ.

habeas corpus, by defence to prosecutions, by actions brought
on his own betialf, by injunction, by mandamus. Any qne of
these modes of redress, suitable to his case, is open to him. A
citizen cannot, in any way, be harassed, injured or destroyed
by hnconstitutional laws without having some legal means of
resistance~or redress. But this is where the State or its officers
moves against him.' The right to all these means of protection
and redress agaidist unconstitutional oppression and exaction is
a very different thing from the right to coerce the State into a
fulfilment of its contracts. The one is an indefeasible right, a
right which cannot be taken away; the other is never a right,
but may or may fiot be conceded by the State; and, if conceded, may be conceded on such terms as the State chooses to
impose.
All the cases that are cited from the books in which rdress
has beeii afforded to individuals by the courts against State action
are cases arising out of the first class, and not out of the second;
cases of State aggression, and not of r6fushl to fulfil obligations.
The case of Osborn v. The United States Bank, 9 Wheat. 737, was
of that class; so was that of Dartmouth College v. Woodward,
4 Wheat. 518; so was that of lNew Jeisey v. Tfilson, 7 Cranch.
164. So, if loolked at carefully, were thoge bf Davis v. Gray, 16
Wall. 203, and the Board of Liquidation v. 3fcComb, 92 U. S.
'531; although.these last cases approach nearer to suits against
a State than any others which have received the sanction of
this court. In -all these cases the State has attempted to do
some unconstitutional act injurious to 'the party, or some act
which it bad entered into a contract not to do; and redress was
sought .against such aggressive act; *they, none of them, ex.hibit the case of a State declining to pay a tebt or to perform
an obligation, and the party seeking to enforce its performance
by judicial process.
As for the great mass of .cases in which the remedies of
mandamus, and injunction have been sanctioned, to compel
State officers to do, 'r refrain from doing, some act in which
the plaintiff had an interest, they have generally been cases in
which the law- made it the duty of thp officers to 'do the act
"commanded,or not to do the act forbidden. Those of a different

VIRGINIA COUPON CASES.
Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C.J.,- Tiller, Bradley, Gray, JJ.

character, as where a remedy has been taken away, have been
purely cases of demands by one individual against another,
and nQt of an individual against the State.
The present cases differ toto cxlo from any of these. They
are attempts to coerce a State by judicial proceedings; as
before stated, they are that, and nothing else. It is useless to
attempt to deceive ourselves by an adroit use of words, or by
a train of metaphysical reasoning. We cannot, in that way,
change the nature of things.
This is the first time, we believe, since the Eleventh Amendment was adopted, in which a State has been coerced by judicial
Iproceedirigs at the suit of individuals in the federal courts.
That this is such a case, seems one of the plainest propositions
that can be stated.
As the observations already made apply equally to actions
against the officers of the State brought to recover dam6ies, or
to recover property taken for taxes, as to bills for injunction an&V
applications for mandamus, only a few words are necessary to
be added in reference to the suit of Poindexterv. areenhow,in
which the first opinion was read, and to the trespass cases similarly situated. Those are actions brought not by citizens of
another. State, but by citizens of Virginia herself, in her own
courts; and the highest court of Virginia has adjudged them to
-be untenable. Our jurisdiction is invoked to reverse this (Ie
cision, and to sustain the actions.'
The Eleventh Amendment, it is true, does not prohibit thi
extension of the judicial power of the United States to suits
-prosecuted against a State by its own citizens. But the evident
reason of this is, tba" the judicial power was ,not grarted to
the United States by the original Constitution in such cases:
hence, as it was not granted, it was not deeined necessary to
prohibit it. It was evidently supposed that the control of all
litigation against a State by it' own citizens was in its own
power, amongst that mass of rights which was reserved to the
States and the people. It would be very strange to say that,
although a State cannot, in any case, be sued by a citizen of
.another State since the adoption of the'Eleventh Amendment,
yet, in a case arising under the Constitution and laws of the
VOL. CxV-22

OCTOBER TER-M, 1884.
Syllabus in Moore v. Greenhow.

United States, it may be sued by its own citizens. This would
be to deprive the State, with regard to its own citizens, of its
sovereign right of exemption from suit.
It seems to us that the absurdity of this proposition is its
sufficient answer. Unless the State chooses to allow itself to
be sued, it cannot be sued; it has this prerogative if no other.
It is admitted, in point of form, that it ca'inot be sued by the
citizens of other States, or of foreign States, because of the
Eleventh Amendment. The whole argument of the opinions
of the majority of the court is directed to the object of showing
that the State is not sued in the suits under consideration.
We do not remember that it is anywhere contended that the
State can be sued by its own citizens, against its own law,
merely because the Eleventh Amendment does not in terms
extend to that case.
In our judgment none of these suits can be maintained, for
the reason that they are in substance and effect suits against
the State of Virginia.
We have not thought it necessary or proper to make any -emarks on the moral aspects of the case. If Virginia or any
other State has the prerogative of exemption from judicial prosecution, and of determining her owu public policy with regard
to the mode of redeeming her obligations, it is not for this
court, when considering the question of her constitutional rights%
to pass any judgment upon the propriety of her conduct on the
one side or on the other.

MOORE v. GREENHOW, Treasurer.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
VIRGINIA.

Antoni v. Greenhww, 107 LT.S. 769, deciding that the Act of Virginia of January 14, 1882, affords an adequate remedy to the tax-payers required to pay
money in lieu of coupons in payment of a license tax affirmed ; and a writ
of mandamus against an officer of that State refused.

