BOATMEN'S BANK v. STATE SAVINGS ASS'N. 265
Statement of Facts.

BOATMEN'S SAVINGS BANK v. STATE SAVINGS

ASSOCIATION.
IN ERROR TO TIKE ST. LOUIS COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
ISSOURI.
Argued April 1, 1885.-Delcded April 13, 1885.

A depositor having a balance in bank drew his checks upon the bank in favor
of a third party. At the time of the presentment of the checks the depositor had become insolvent, and there was held by the bank a draft indorsed
b F him but which had not then matured. The bank refused to pay the
checks, and afterwards, the depositor having been Adjudged a bankrupt

and the draft dishonored, credited the amount ofthe balance on the draft,
and proved in bankruptcy for the difference only. The State Court de-

cided that the checks constituted an equitable assignment of the amount
* due by the bank. Held, that the case did not present a Federal question.

This suit was brought by the State Savings Association -of
St. .Louis against the Boatmen's Savings Bank to recover the
amount of two checks drawn on the bank by the firm of Cobb,
Dolhonde & Co., dated respectively September 5, 1874,and
October 23, 1874, and presented for payment November 5,
1874. When the checks were presented there was a balance
on deposit in the bank to the credit of the firm more than
enough to take them\up, but the firm had failed between the
dates of the checks and the time of their.presentation, and had
notified the bank to that effect. The bank on that account
refused paymeni. At the time of the presentation of the
checks, and also at the time of the failure of the firm, the bank
held a draft, not then due, drawn by orie Bradley on and accepted by the firm for $3,174, dated October 3,1874, and payable in forty days from date. On the same day that the checks
were presented and refused, it was arranged between the bank
and the Savings Association that if the bank succeeded in collecting this draft from the drawer it would pay the cheeks.
The draft was never collected and the checks still remain unpaid.
Cobb, Dolhonde"& Co. did not resume payment after their

2,66 -

OCTOBER TERM1, 1884.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

failure, and on the 23d of March, 1875, they were duly adjualcated bankrupts on a-petition filed January 8, 1875. The bank
indorsed on the Bradley draft the amount standing to the
'credit of the firm at the time of the failure, and proved its claim
in the bankruptcy proceeding for the balance remaining, due
after this indorsement was made. Upon this balance dividends
were paid by the-assignee in bankruptcy. The Savings Association also proved its claim in bankruptcy and received dividends thereon. The total amount of its claim was much more
than the amount of the checks.
The ground on which the Savings Association sought to recover in the suit was, that the presentation of the checks to
the bank for payment, while there was a balance of deposits to
the credit of the firm exceeding the amount drawn for, charged
the bank with a liability to pay the checks to the association
as the holder thereof. The defences set up by the bank in its
answer were, 1, that the failure of the firm, and notice thereof
to the bank, was equivalent to instructions from the firm not
to pay. any checks that might thereafter be presented; 2, that
the" Savings Association was not the assignee or indorsee of the
checks; 3, that, in consideratio'4 of the agreement of the bank
to pa the checks if the .Bradley, draft was collected, the Savings Association bound itself not to hold the bank liable if 'the
collection was not made; and 4, that, relying on this agreement by the association, the bank credited the full amount of
the balance of deposits in favor of the firm upon the Bradley
draft, and proved up its demand against the estate of the bankrupts oil account of the draft for no more than remained due
after this credit was given, and that dividends were paid by
the assignee only on the amount proven. Upon the trial judgment was given in favor of the Savings Association for the full
amount of the checks, afid this judgment was affrmed by the
St. Louis Court of 'Appeals, which is the highest court of the
State in which a decision -iii the suit could be had.
$ffr. T. Hallett P)illisand .Afr. John TV. Nole.for plaintiff
in error.-It is denied by the defendant in error, the Savings
Association, that the amount due Cobb, Dolhonde'& Co. bv

BOATMEN'S BANK v. STATESAVINGS ASS'N. 267
Opinion of the Court.
the Boatmen's Bank, was rightfully applied by that bank, or
that the case was one of mutual credits. They claim that the
fund in the hands of the Boatmen's Bank should have been
paid over by that bank to them. If the presentment of the
checks established a liability on the part of the Boatmen's Bank
to pay over to the holder the amount, due by that banjK to
Cobb, Dolhorde & Co.,.then the application of the credit and
its hlowance in the bankruptcy proceedings was erroneous;,
the money in point of law was due- the holder of the checks
and not Cobb, Dolhonde.& Co. On the other hand, if no such
liability was established by the presentment of the checks, then
the Boatmen'sBank had a right to treat the amount due by it
as due Cobb, Dolhonde & Co., and a~cordingly had the
right to apply it toward the extinguishment of the amount due
by that firm to the bank; in other words, they had the right to
treat the case as one of mutual debts and credits within the
meaning of the bankrupt act.
r. Joh F.
Xr. Jef Chandler, 21r. John X. Glove
Shepley and .A. George H. Shields for defendant in error.,
.MR. CHIEF JusTICE WA.ITE, after stating the facfs in the foregoing language, delivered the opinion of the court.
We are unable to discover any federal question in the record.
No title, right,.privige or immunity, under the Constitution
or laws of the United States, was set up in the pleadings, and
no claim of that -kind was made at the trial. The whole controversy, qt and before the trial, seems to have been as to the
right of the holder of 'a banker's check to recover against a
bank having funds of the drawer when presentation has been
duly made and payment demanded, and as to the eftect of
the arrangement between the parties when it:.was agreed, that
the bank, should 'pay the checks if the Bradley drafC' was collected.
In the Cothrt of Appeals i4 was, among other things, assigned
for error that "the judgmentwas against the right of the dpfendant to a judgment inhis favoi under the provisions of the
act'of Congress of the.United States,'establishing and provd.-

268

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

ing for a uniform system of bankruptcy, in force at the time of
the transaction between the parties, out of which the controversy arises," and, from the opinion of the court, Rev. Stat.
ยง 5073, seems to have been relied on. That section provides:
"1In all cases of mutual debts or mutual credits between the
parties, the account between them shall be stated, and one debt
set off against the other, and the balance only shall be allowed
IIor paid."
No rights under this section were set up in the pleadings or
claimed at the trial ; and, besides, the right of the bank to apply
whatever dredit there may be in its accounts in favor of the
bankrupt firm to the reduction of the amount due on the draft
is not denied. The only dispute is as to the amount of the
credit, and we are unable to see that the bankrupt law is involved in the determination of that question. The Court of
Appeals decided that the presentation of the checks on
the 5th of November operatad as an equitable assignment
at that date of an amount of the fund then standing to the
credit of the firm equal to the amount of the checks, and made
the Savings Association from that time, in equity, the creditor
of the bank 'to that extent. Debts are provable against a
bankrupt's estate as of the date of the commencement of the
proceedings in banktuptcy. Rev. Stat. ยง 5Q67. As ยง 5073 relates td the amount which may be allowed upon such proof, it
is clear that the mutual debts or.mutual credits there referred
to must be such as are in existence at the same date. In the
present case the question was whether 9n the 5th of November,
1874, more than two months before the commencement of the"
proceedings in bankruptcy, a.part of the balance standing to
the credit of Cobb, Dolhonde & Co. on the books of the bank
had been assigned to the plaintiff in this action. That did not
depend on the bankrupt law, but on the legal effect of what
was done at and before that time by the parties, and when, so
far as appears from the record, no proceedings in bankruptcy
were contemplated. The point for determination was, whether
the presentation of a check, drawn on a banker by a customer
having funds to his credit; transferred in equity to the holder

VIRGINIA COUPON CASES.
Generar Summary.

of the check so much of the debt due from the bank to the
drawer, as was sufficient to pay the check. This is clearly not
a federal question.
It follows that

WYe have no jurisictionof the case, awd it is dimissed.

VIRGINIA COUPON OASES.
There were eight of these cases. All related to thelegislation of the State of Virginia of March 30, 1871, authorizing
coupons of the funded debt of the State to be received in
payment of taxes, debts, dues, and demands due the State,
and to subsequent legislation, practically forbidding the receipt,
of the coupons in present payment of dues and taxes. .The
cases follow in the.order in which they: were announced by
the court., The legislation is set forth, or referred to in Antoni
v. Greenow, 107 U. S. 769, and in the opinion of the court in
the first of the present cases.
The cases were argued, or submitted, in the following order:
i GREENHow, was--submitted December 1, 1884.
PonmDFxTFR v. GaEF rrow; WHiTE v..GREENHow; CAFIN v.
.TAYI oR; OCATER v. \GREiF ow; and MooRE v. GBEENHOW,
PiE"SAMw

were argued together ]Iarch 20, 23, 24 and 253 1885. -ALLEN

v.

13TI ORE

&

mo.RAumoAD Co. was argued March 25, 26,.

1885; and IYE v. PARsoNs was argued March 26, 27,-1885.,The opinions and judgments of the court in all the cases except MooiE v. GREENH OW Were announced Alril 20, 1885. In
the latter case they:..7ere announced May 4,-1885.
The dissenting opinion will be found after the opinion of. the
court in "IYE 'z. IAsows. The Justices whoconcurred'im it
dissented from the judgments and opinions ,of the court in
PPohnfExTER v. GEmmow; WnRym v. GREEN.How ; CHAFvn v.
TAiou; and AL= v. BALTmoRE & Oio Ri o&6OD
Co. In
PrLEAsA-TS

v.

G.QNmow; CA.'

m v.

GaEow; and, 14&ra

v. PAsoNs, they concurred in the judgments of the court, but

