OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

consent of Hunter, and Hunter did not consent. It was also
an element of the agreement, that the money of the associates
on deposit in the bank should be sufficient and should be available to pay a large part of the money required for the purchase
of the share of the Missourians. - But this condition also failed.
He*was, therefore, bound by no contract with Bissell to make
the purchase.
The only questi6n which remains is, was Foss bound, when
he learned that the arrangement he had made with Bissell for
the purchase of the share of the Missourians could -not be carried.
out, to inform Bissell of the fact, and give him a chance to join
in the purchase made by him and Hunter?. It cannot be denied
that, under the circumstances, there was an obligation on Foss
to inform Bissell of the failure of their plan before making
another with a third person. But it was not a legal obligation
capable of enforcement in fcrro exeteno, but only a natural
obligation to be disposed of in foro conscientice. Story Eq.
Jur., ยง 2. It was one of those obligations which was binding
on the honor and conscience of the party, but one not the subject of a suit and not to be enforced in a court of either law or
equity.
We are of opinion that the decree of the Circuit Court was
right. It is therefore
Mn. JUSTICE BRADLEY and MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS dissented.

BRADSTREET COMPANY v. HIGGINS.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Argued March -, 1885.-Decided Anuil 13, 1S85.

A defendant in error, on whose motion a writ of error is dismissed for want of
jurisdiction, may recover costs in this court which are incident to his
motion to dismiss.'

BRADSTREET COMPANY v. HIGGINS.
Opinion of the Court.

This case having been dismissed for want of jurisdiction, the
defendant in error made' the following application to the court.
"The plaintiff in error failing to print the record,,the requisite
amount was advanced by the defendant Min
error, with- the'
understanding that in case of his success this would be'refunfLed.
"The Clerk now informs the defendant in error, that the
amount advanced by him cannot be taxed in his favor, nor any
of his other costs in this court, because the cause was dismissed
for want of jurisdiction. As thQ taxation of costs in such cases
is a matter of daily occurrence, and frequently of much importance, we take this occasion of bringing the subject to the
attention of the court.
"'We ask that the Clerk may be directed to tax the costs ofprinting the record and for supervising the same, against the
-plaintiff in error-the Bradstreet Co."
. W,. Hallett Phiplips for the motion, submitted on his
brief.
.Xr. I.

Wise Garnett opposing.

C=IF Jusicp.WArrE delivered the opinion of the court
This writ of error was dismissed at a former day in .this
term, on motion of the defendant in error, for want of jurisdiction, because the value of the matter in dispute did not
exceed $5,000. 112 U. S. 227. -In order to present his motion
to dismiss, it became necessary for the, defendant in error
to cause, the record to be printed, and to do that he was' compelled to pay the cost,.of printing and the fee'of the ellerk
for supervising. The judgment, as entered on the motion to
dismiss, made no order as to costs, and the defendant in erro.r
now moves that the cost of printing nd the clerk's fee for
supervising be taxed against the plaintiff in error.
It has been often decided that if a suit is dismissed for want
of jurisdiction in this court no judgment for the costs of the suit
'can be given. _nglee v. Coolidgq,. 2 Wheat. 363; rcver v.
'Wattles, 9 Wheat. 650; Strader 'v. Graq1am, 18 How. 602;
HornhaZll v. Collector, 9 Wall. 560. A different rule prevails
Ia.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

when there has been d reversal here because the Circuit Court
did not have jurisdiction, as this court has authority to correct
the error of the Circuit Court in taking jurisdiction. Turner
v. Enrillo, 4 Dall. 1; Winchester v. Jackson, 3 Cranch, 514;
.fontalet v. .Aurray, 4 Cranch, 46 ; fansfld & Lake .fXichigan Railway Co v. ,Swdn, 111 U. S. 379,-387.
Here, however, the question.is not as to the right of the defendant in error to recover his costs in the suit, but only such
as are incident to his motion to dismiss. It has been decided
that the writ of error was wrongfully sued. out by the plaintiff
in error. To get rid of the writ and the supersedeas which
had been olbtaineA.thereunder, the defendant in error was compelled to come to this court and move to dismiss. That motion
we had jurisdiction to hear and decide. The'right to decide
implies the right to adjudge as to all costs which are incident
to the motion.
Under Rule 10, ยง 22 of this court, it was the duty of. the
plaintiff in error to cause the r~cord to be printed, and to pay
all the costs and fees incident thereto in time for use when
required in the progress of the cause. If it failed in this the
defendant in error might pay the costs and fees' and thus secure
the printing. Under ยง 7, in case.,tf reversal, affirmance, or
dismissal with costs, the amount of the cost of printing the
record and the clerk's fee are to be taxed to the party againt
whom the costs are given.
In this case the plaintiff in error neglected to have the record
printed by the time it was wanted by the defendant in error
on his motion, to dismiss. Under the~e circumstances we do
,Snot doubt our authority to adjudge the costs incident to the
printing against the plaintiff in error as part of the costs of
he m6tion to dismiss. It is accordingly

Ordered that the judgment heretofore entered le amended so
a&to charge the plaingf, in errorwith all the, costs of the
motion to dismiss, which shall include the cost of printing
the record and the lerk'sfeefor superiin. '

