BEECHER MFG.- CO. v. ATWATER MFG. CO.

&23

Opinion of the Court.
in other respects, was right, unless the contrary is shown.
7entress v. Smitk, 10 Pet. 161 ; Townsend v. Jamison, 7 How.
706, 714; :The Skip Potomac, 2 Black, 581.
We find no error in the record.
Judgment fflrmed.

BEECHER MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. ATWATER MANUFAOTURING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF CO.NECTICUT.
Argued April 23, 1885.-Decided May 4,1885.
The use in succession of two distinct pairs of dies, of well-known kinds, not
combined in one machine, nor co-operating to one result, but each pair
doing by itself its own work, is not a patentable invention.

This was a bill in equity for infringing a patent right. The
facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
.2fr.0. IT P att and -r.

H T. Fenton for appellant.

.2r. George S. Prindleand -r.

J. A.. Wilson for appellee.

Mx. JUSTiCE GRA- delivered the opinion of thecourt.
This is an appeal from a decree for an injunction "anddamages for the infringement of a patent issued to Robert R. Miller, on February 22, 1870, and reissued to his assigns on May
6, 1879, for an improvement in dies for forming the clip arms
of king bolts for wagons. 8 Fed. Rep. 608.
According to the description i~n the specification, such bolts
ae made by taking an iron rod of suitable length, splitting it
for about two inches at one end, and turning the forks or arms
outwards; then heating the rod, placing the.body ina hole in
a block or die grooved to receive the arms, and striking it witli
a plane-faced upper die, so as to force the. arms into and make

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

them take the shape of the grooves; and afterwards placing
it between two other dies, which give the arms the proper
bend to fit them to the axle-tree of a wagon. With the subsequent shaping of the collar and stem of the bolt, this patent
has nothing to do.
In the original patent, the patentee stated that he did not
claim either of the dies separately, and claimed only "the
series of dies" (designating them by letters) "for forming the
clip arms and wings of the lower ends of king bolts, for
wagons, said dies being constructed and operating ,substantially as herein shown and described." In the reissue, he
claimed, 1. The first pair of dies, "constructed and combined
substantially as and for the purpose shown." 2. "The series
of dies" (designated by letters) "for forming clip king bolts,
substantially as shown and dls'cribed."
The first claim of the reissue is bad, not only because it was
for something the patentee had expressly disclaimed in the
original patent but because, as the evidence olearly 'shows,
there was nothing new in the dies themselves.
The second claim of the reissue, like the single claim of the
original patent, for the use in succession, or, in the patentee's
phrase, "the series," of the two pairs of old dies the one pair
to shape the arms of the bolt, and the other to give those ans
the requisite curve, does not show any patentable invention.
The two pairs of dies were not combined in one machine, and
did not co-operate to one result. Each pair was used by itself,
and might be so used at any distance of time or place from
the other; and if the two were used at the same place. and in
immediate succession of time, the -result of the action of each
was separate and distinct, and was in no way influenced or
affected by the action of the other. This was no combination
that would sustain a patent. Ilailes v. Fanlformer, 20 Wall.
353; Pickering v. XcCullough, 104 U. S. 310; Stepheson v.
Brooklyn Railroad,ante, 149.
,Decree reversed and case remandedwith directions to dismiss
the bill.

