I OCTQBER- TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

FARM[INGTON v. PILLSBURY.
INS, ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MAINE.
Argued March 16, 17, 1885.-Decided March 30, 1885.

When a plaintiff who has no real interest in the subject matter of a suit pend.
ing in a Circuit Coulrt of the United States, permits his name io be coln-,
sively used for the purpose of giving jurisdiction, the suit should be dismissed under the provision of § 5 Act of March 8, 1875, 18 Stat. 472.
After a decision by a State court that certain bonds issued by a municipal
corporation were void as issued under an unconstitutional act, several
bondholders, citizens of the State, cut the'coupons from their bonds and
transferred them to a citizen of anotber State, who gaye to the agent of the
owners of the coupons a note of hand for much less than the face value of
the coupons, and an agreement that if he should succeed in collecting the
full amount of the coupons, he would pay him fifty per cent. of the amount
collected from the corporation. The new holder thereupon brought suit
on the coupons in his own-name, against the municipal corporation, in the
Circuit Court of the United States.: Held, That this was within the prohibiti6n of 5 Act of March 3,1875, 18 Stat. 472, as to parties improperly
or collusively made for'the purpose of creating a case cognizable by-a
Circuit Court of the United States.

This was a suit upon coupons for semi-annual interest on the
bonds of the Farmington Village Corporation, and among the
defences set up was one to the effect that the plaintiff was not
a bona fide holder of the coupons in suit, but that they Wvere
placed in his hands merely for the purpose of bringing a suit
the Circuit Court of 'the United 'States. The case was tried
"in
by the court without the interventionof a jury and came here
with a special finding of facts, and a certificate of division of
'opinion between the judges holding the court upon certain
questions arising at the trial. Among the'questions certified
was this: "Whether the plaintiff can maintain an action in
this court upon the coupons declared, idpon, the bonds or in-.
struments to which they were attached 'not being assigned to
him, but having been issued to and always held by citizens of
Maine."
The facts applicable to this question, which appeared in the
special findings, were these:

FARMINGTON v, PILLSBURY.
Statement of Facts.

The bonds from which the coupons were cut were issued by
Farmington Village under a private statue passed by the Legislature of Maine authorizing the village corporation to raise
money to aid in the extension of the road of the Androscoggin
iRailroad Company to some point within or near the limits of
the village. The bonds were issued by the assessors and treasurer of the village to a committee of citizens, who were authorized to sell and dispose of them for the purpose mentioned in
the statute. Before the committee received any of the bonds
from the assessors- and treasurer, and before July 1, 1870,.
which was the date of the bonds, Jonas Burnham and eleven
others, all citizens, owners of property subject to taxation and'
tax payers in the village corp6ration, filed a bill in equity in
the Supreme Judicial Court of the State of Maine, in Franklin
County, against.the railroad company, the assessors and treasui er, and the committee of the village, to enjoin them from
issuing the bonds, on the ground of a want of authority.of law
for that purpose. This suit was entered at the July term, 1870,
of the court, and held under advisement until the 3d'of- August, 1872, when the bill was dismissed without prejudic.
After this, on the 12th of August, 1872, other tax-payers filed
another bill of the same general character against the' same
defendants and' the village corponition to obtain substantially
the same relief. To this bill the village corporation filedah
answer and the railroad company a general demurrer,. The
case was heard by the court at the July term, 1873, and :kept
under advisement until August 27,'1878, when a.decree was
rendered sustaining the bill and granting the injunction .prayed"
for. The opinion of the court is reported in 70 Maine, 515,
and is-to the effect that the statute authrizing-the village, corporation to aid the extension of the railroad was unconstitutional and void. This opinion was concurred -in
by only four
of the eight judges composing the court at the time of thehearing. One judge,:who siat in the cause,-died while the opinion was in his hands for examination, aid hip, death made the
four judges ai majority of the court at the time of the decision,
Notwithstanding the .pendency of the original ,suit, ,the
bbnds were put out and, with the exception of -a few bnly'

OCTOBER TERMI, 1884.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

were bought by citizens of Farmington and members of the
village corporation. The coupons in suit'were collected from
various holders of the bonds, all residents of Farmington and
citizens of the State of Maine, about May, 1880, and transferred to the plaintiff, a citizen of Massachusetts, separate from
the bonds. The plaintiff gave his note and agreement for these
coupons to the agent of the holders who had taken them to
,dispose of, as follows:
BOSTON, ]ifay 5, 1880.
"$500.
"For value received I promise to pay to 1. Dyer five hun'dred dollars in, two years, with interest.
E. F. PILLSBURY."
"BOSTON, .Aay 5, 1880.
"Whereas I have this day bought of P. Dyer, of Farmington, coupons of the Farmington Village Corporation to the
amount of $7,922, and giveh him my note for the same; as a
further consideration for said 'coupons, I agree that, if I succeed in collecting the full amount of said coupons, I will pay
him fifty per cent. of the net amount collected above said five
hundred dollars, and pay him as soon'as I collect the money

from said corporation.

E. F.

PILLSBURY."

This suit was begun July 1, 1880.
2Er. William L. Putnam, (3fr. Thomas H. Haskell was with
him) for plaintiff in error.
iU'r. Charles F. Libby for defendant in error argued the
case on its merits, and also on the question of jurisdiction. On
the latter point he said, this assignment of error is based on
inferences which are sought to be drawn from the special finding, but are not included in it. This court cannot treat the
finding as a report of evidence from which other resul~ing
facts can be deduced. This function, we understand, this court
has repeatedly refused to perform, and to have .held that a
special finding must contain "a statement of the ultimate facts or
propositions which the evidence is intended to establish, and not

FARMINGTON v.: PILLSBURY.
Opinion of'the Court.

the evidence on whi~h those ultimate facts arb supposed to rest,"

-

Burr v. .Des 31ines Co,, 1 Wall. 98, 102.. See also, Suydam
v. Villiamson 20 How., 927, 432; United, States v. Adams, 6
Wall. 101; Aumfford v. Wardwell, 6 Wall. 423; Bares"v.
Williams, 11 Wheat. 415. "Whether the foundation.of the
judgment be a statement of facts, a special verdict, or a special
findifig, the statement must be sufficient in itself, without inferences or comparisons or bAlancingof testimony or weighing
evidence, to justqy the application of legal prinbiples which:
must determine the case." Smith v. Sac County, 11 Wall. 139.'
It will hardly be contended that the Circuit Court found'a collusive transfer of these coupons, for the judges .found the fact
of transfer and the consideration of the same and-did not find
collusion, and on these points there was no disagreemient between the judges. The fact that this point was raed in the
pleadings anld not sustained by the court seems to us'conclutive,
as the court was obliged to pass upon it in order to sustiin .the
plaintiff's right of action. The finding is in fivo of .the
plaintiff and gi-ves the details of the transaction. !Unless this
court is to hold that such, a tiansaction cannot be ge~uine, the
estababsolute sale of the coupons to the defendant in error is.
to
contradict
this
fact.
lished, and there is nothing in the case
_VR. CHIEF.JUSTO# WAITE

delivered.the opinion of the &our.

After making the foregoing statement of'the' facts he dcontinued:
By the original judiciary act of S~ptember 24,.789, ch. 20;
1 Stat. 73, it was provided, § 11, that no' District' or Circuit
Court should "have cogb;nizance of any suit to recoverthe contenfs of any promissory note or other tlhose in action in
favor. of an assignee, unless'a suit might'have been piosecuted in such, court to recover the said contents if 'no assign.
menth'bd been mad ,'eicept in cases-of foreign bills" of e.-.
change." The same act-provided,§ 12,. for the removal "bf
suits from a State court to the Circuit Court Jy a defendant,
and he was required to file his petitioifi for sudh a remo'al at
the -time-of entering his appearance in the State cburt.
Bytheract of M1arch a, 1875, ch. 137, § 1, 18 Stat. V'O, §11

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.-Opinon of the Court.

of the act of 1789 was changed so as to provide that the Circuit and District Courts should not have cognizance of any
suit founded on contract in favor of an assignee, unless a
suit might have been prosecuted in such court to recover
thereon if no assignment had been made, except in cases of
promissory notes negotiable by the law merchant and bills of
exchange. By the same act, §§ 2 and 3, removals could be
effected by either party, when the necessary citizenship existed,
if a petition was filed therefor, in the State court before or at
the term at which the cause could be first tried, and before the
trial thereof. This last act also contained this provision, § 5:
"If, in any suit commenced in a Circuit Court or removed
from a State court, . . . it shall appear to the satisfaction
of the Circuit Court, at any time after such suit has been
brought or removed thereto, that such suit does not really and
substantially involve a suit or controversy properly within the
jufisdiction of said Circuit Court, or that the parties to said
suit-have been improperly or collusively made or joined, either
as plaintiffs or defendants, for the purpose of creating a cas3
cognizable or removable under this act, the said Qircuit Court
shall proceed no 'further therein, but shall dismiss the suit or
remand it to the State court from which it was removed, as
justice may require, aid shall make such order as to costs as
shall be just, but the order-of the Circuit Court, dismissing or
remanding said cause to the State court, shall be reviewable
by the Supreme Court on writ of error or appeal, as the case
may be."
Under the act of 1789, the jurisdiction of the courts of the
United States, in suits by assignees of choses in action, was
confined within narrow limits, and there was comparatively
little danger of collusion to create a case of that character
cognizable by those courts, because, if the owner of the claim
could sue in his own name, there would ordinarily be no motive
for transferring it to another to bring the action. In that act
promissory notes and inland bills of exchange, the form of negotiable securities most used in the transaction of ordinary
business by citizens of the United States, were included in the
prohibition of suits by assignees.

FARAHNGTON v." PILLSBURY.
Opinion of the Court.

The subject of colorable transfers to create a case for the
jurisdiction of the courts of the United States was presented for
the most part in suits for the recovery of real property, when
a conveyance had been made by a citizen of the State in which

the suit must be brought to a citizen of another State. At a
very early day it was held in this class of cases'that the citizenship of the parties could not be put in issue on the merits,
but that it must be brought fbrward at an earlier stage in the
proceedings by a plea in abatement, in the nature of a plea to
the jurisdiction, and that a plea to the merits was a waiver of
such a plea to the jurisdiction. De Wo/f v. .aZaud, 1 Pet.
476, 498 ; .Evans v. Gee, 1 L Pet. 80, 83 ; Sims v. .Hundley, 6
How. 1, 5; Smith v. KYernocken, 7 How. 198, 216;. Jones v.
league, 18 How. 76, 81; De Sobpy v. "_Tickolson, 3 Wall. 420,
423. And upon the question of transfer it was uniformly held
that, if the transaction was real and actually conveyed to the
assignee or grantee all the title and interest of the assignor or
grantor in the thing assigned or granted, it was a matter of no importance that the assignee or the grantee could sue in the courts
of the United States when his assignor or grantor could not.,
A suit by such an assignee or grantee would present, in reality,
a controversy between the plaintiff on the record and the defendants. XcDonald v. Smalley, 1 Pet. 620; Smith v. Kernochen, supra; Barney v. Baltimore, 6 Wall. 280, 288. But
it was equally well settled that if the transfer was fictitious,
the assignor or grantor continuing to be the real-party in interest, and the plaintiff on record but a nominal or colorable
party; his name being used only for the purpose of jurisdiction,
*the suit would be essentially a controversy between the assignor
or grantor and the defendant, notwithstanding the formal assignment or conveyance, and that the juris iction of the coudrt
would be determined by their citizenship rather than that of,
the nominal plaintiff. Afaowell v. levy, 2 Dall. 381 ; . C. 4
Dal]. 238, decided by -r. Justice Iredell and Peters J. in the
Pennsylvania circuiz in 1797. Smith v. Kernochen, supra;
Barney v. Baltimore, supra.
Such was the condition of the law when the act of 1875 was
passed, which allowed suits to be brought by the assignees of-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884,
Opinion of the Court.

promissory notes negotiable by the law merchant, as well as of
foreign, and domestic bills of exchange, if the"necessary citizenship of the parties existed. This opened wide the door for
frauds upon the jurisdiction of the court by collusive transfers,
so as to make colorable parties and create cases cognizable by
the courts of the United States. To protect the courts as well
as parties against such frauds upon their jurisdiction, it was
made the duty of a court, at any time when it satisfactorily
appeared that a suit did ot "really and substantially involve
a dispute or controversy" properly within its jurisdiction, or
that the parties "had. been improperly or collusively made or
joined

.

.

.

for the putpose of creating a case cognizable"

under that act, "tQ proceed no further therein" but to dismiss
the suit or remand it to the State court from which it had been
removed. This, as was said in Williams v. NYottawa, 104 U. S.
209, 211, "imposed the duty on the court, on its own motion,
'without waiting for the parties, to stop all further proceedings
and dismiss the suit the moment a fraud on its jurisdiction was
discovered." The old rule established by the decisions, which
required all objections to the citizenship of the parties, unless
shown on the face of the record to be taken by plea in abatement before pleading to the merits, was changed, and the
.courts were given full authority to-protect themselves against
the false pretences of apparent parties. This is a salutary provision which ought not to be neglected. It was intended to
promote the ends of justice, and is equivalent to an express
enactment by'Congress that the Circuit Courts shall not have
jurisdiction of suits which do not really and substantially involve a dispute or'controversy of which they have cognizance,
nor of suits in which the parties have been improperly or collusively made~or joined for the purpose of creating a case cogni7able under the act. It does not, any more than did the act
.of 1789, prevent the courts from taking jurisdiction of suits by
an assignee when the assignment is not fictitious, and actually
conveys all the interest of the assignor in the- thing assigned,
so that the suit when begu involves really and substantially
a dispute or controversy in favor of the assignee for himself
,and on his own account against the defendant; but it does

FARMINGTON v. PILLSBURY.
Opinion 6f the Court.

in"positive language provide that, if the assigrment is collusive
and for the purpose of enabling the assignee to sue in the
courts of the United States for the benefit of the assignor, when
the assignor himself could not bring the action, the court shall
.not proceed in the case. In this re~pect it goes further than
the rulings of the courts under the act of 1789. Under its provisions the holders of promissory notes or of foreign or domestic bills of exchange, who are citizens of a State in which the
decisions of the courts have been adverse to their interests,
cannot by collusive transfers to citizens of other States create a
case apparently cognizable in the courts of the United States,
and have it prosecuted by their assignees in those tribunals for.
their benefit, in the hope of securing an. adjudication in that
jurisdiction more. favorable to their interests. The courts of the
United States were not created under the Constitution for any
such purpose. Except in certain specified cases they have no
jurisdiction of controversies between citizens of the same State.
We are clearly of opinion that this case falls within the prohibitions of the statute. The bonds to vhich the coupons.now
in suit were attached were all bought as early as 1871 or 1872
by citizens of the State of Maine, who held and owned the.
bonds themselves when this suit was brought. Their purchases.
were made while a suit was pending in the courts of the State.
to test the validity of the bonds. On the 27th of August
- 1878, the highest court of the State decided in effect that the
bonds were inoperative and void, for want of constitutional
power in the village corporation to issue them. Almost two,
years after this decision-these coupons, to the amount of $7,922,
were collected from various holders of bonds, all residents
of the village of Farmington and citizens of Maine, and transferred, separate from the bonds, to the present plaintiff, a
citizen of Massachusetts, under an arrangement by which the
plaintiff gave to the agent of the holders of the 'coupons his
non-negotiable promissory note for $500, payable in two years
from date, with interest, and agreed," ' as a further consideration for said coupons," that if he succeeded .in collecting the
full amount thereof he would pay the agent, as soon as the
money was got from the corporation, fifty per cent. of the net
TOL. cxi-1O

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

amount collected above the $500. This suit, begun July 1,
1880, in the name of the plaintiff, is the result of that arrangement. It is a suit for the benefit of the owners of the bonds.
They are to receive from the plaintiff one-half of the net proceeds of the case they have created by their transfer of the
coupons gathered together for that purpose. The suit is their
own in reality, though they have agreed that the plaintiff may
retain one-half of what he collects for the use of his name and
his trouble in collecting. It is true the transaction is called a
purchase in the papers that were executed, and that the plain
tiff gave his note for $500, but the time for payment was put
off for two years, when it was, no doubt, supposed the result
of the suit would be known. No money was paid, and as the
note was not negotiable, it is clear the parties intended to keep
the control of the whole matter in their own hands, so that if
the plaintiff failed to recover the money he could be released
from his promise to pay. In the language of Mr. Justice 1 eld,
speaking for the court in Detroit v. Dean, 106 IT. S. 537, 541,
applied to the facts of this case, the transfer of the coupons
was "a mere contrivance, a pretence, the result of a collusive
arrangement to create" in favor of this plaintiff "a fictitious
ground of federal jurisdiction," so as to get a re-examination
in that jurisdiction of the question decided adversely to the
owners of the coupons by the highest judicial tribunal of the
State. HYawes v. Oakland, 104IU. S. 450, 459; Rayden v.
.anning, 106 U. S. 586; Bernards Township v. Stebbins, 109
U. S. 341.
We, therefore, say, in answer to the first question certified,
that the plaintiff 'cannot maintain the action in the Circuit
Court upon the coupons declared upon.
The judgment of the Oircuit Court is reversed, and the cause
remanded,with instructionsto dismiss the suitfor want of
jurisdictionand without prejudice.

