OCTOBER TERM,

1884.

Syllabus.

eral debt of the company, and not a bond secured by the trust
mortgage, nor a debt contracted for repairs, or salaries, or
other current expenses. It is alleged in the bills, and admitted
by the demurrers, that the creditor, at the time of contracting
his debt, had notice of all the charges, liens and duties affecting
the tolls and revenues, and especially of the provision by which
they were appropriated, in the first instance, to the payment
of necessary expenses. And the money of the corporation,
which he seeks to apply to the payment of his debt, is needed
for those expenses.
It follows that the judgment creditor has no equity, and that
the State of Maryland, and the trustees for bondholders, whose
security will be affected by the diversion of this money from
its lawful object, are entitled to injunctions.
This conclusion accords with the adjudication of the Court
of Appeals of Maryland in Brady v. State, 26 Maryland, 290,
and with the opinions expressed by that court in 'earlier and
later cases. Boyd v. Chesapeake & Ohio Canal, 17 Maryland,
195; 7Firginia,v. Okesapeake & Ohio Canal, 32 Maryland,
501.
Dccree aJfirned.

WURTS & Another v. TOAGLAND & Others, Commissioners.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
Argued March 10, 1885.-Decided May 4, 1885.

The statute of New Jersey of March 8, 1871, providing for the drainage of any
tract of low or marshy land within the State, upon proceedings instituted
by at least five owners of separate lots of land included in the tract, and
not objected to by the owners of the greater part of the tract, and for the
assessment by commissioners, after notice and hearing, of the expenses upon
all the owners, does not deprive them of their property without due process
of law, nor deny to them the equal protection of the laws, within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States.

WURTS v. HOAGLAND.
Statement of Facts.

This was a writ of error by the devisees of M:ary V. Wurts to
reverse a judgment confirming an assessment of commissioners
for the drainage of lands under the statute of New Jersey of
iMarch 8, 1871,the material provisions of which are as follows:
By § 1, "the Board of Managers of the Geological Survey,
on the application of at least five owners of separate lots of
land included in any tract of land in this State which is subject
to overflow from freshets, or which is usually in a low, marshy,
boggy or wet conditioD," .areauthorized to examine the tract,
and, if they deem it for the interest of the public and of the
land owners to be affected thereby, then to.make surveys, and
decide upon and adopt a system of drainage, and report it to
the Supreme Court of the State; and thereupon the court, upon
reasonable notice published in a newspaper circulating in the
county where the tract is, shall appoint three commissioners
to superintend and carry out the system of drainage so adopted
and reported; "provided, that if, at the time fixed for such
,appointment of commissioners, it shall appear to the court by
the written remonstrance of the owners of a majority of the
said low and wet lands duly authenticated by affidavit, that
they are opposed to the drainage thereof at the common
expense, then the said court shall not appoint such commissioners."
By § 2, the commissioners shall cause the tract to be drained
in accordance with the general plan of the board of managers,
and, after the completion of the work, report to the Supreme
Court the expense thereof, together with a general description
of the lands which, in their judgment, ought to contribute to
the expense; notice of the report shall be published for four
weeks, in order that any persons interested may examine the
report, and file objections to it; if any such objections are
filed within the four weeks, the Supreme Court shall determine
upon the same in a sumnmary manner, and, without further
notice, make an order directing the commissioners "to distribute
and assess the amount of said expense and interest, upon the
lands contained within the territory reported by them originally,
or as corrected by the Supreme Court, in proportion, as near
as they can judge, to the benefit derived from said drainage by

OCTOBER TERM,

1884.

Statement of Facts.

the several parcels of land to be assessed;" the assessment, when
completed, shall be deposited in some convenient place for inspection by the parties interested, and notice of the completion
of the assessment, and of the place where it is deposited, published for six weeks, designating a time and place when and
where the commissioners will meet to hear objections to the
assessment; and the commissioners, having heard and decidedupon such objections as shall be made to them, shall proceed to
complete their assessment and file it in the clerk's office of the
Supreme Court, and notice of the filing shall be published for
four weeks, after which, if no objections have been made to
the assessment, it shall be confirmed by the court; any objections filed within the four weeks the Supreme Court shall hear
and determine in a summary manner, but "shall not reverse
said assessment or any part thereof, except for some error in
law, or in the principles of assessment, made or committed by
said commissioners;" if for any such cause the assessment or any
part thereof shall be reversed, it shall be referred to the commissioners to be corrected accordingly, and, when it shall have
been corrected and filed, like proceedings shall be had, until the
court shall finally confirm the assessment; and thereupon the
commissioners shall publish notice for four weeks, requiring the
several owners or other parties interested in the lands assessed
to pay their assessments.
By § 3, further provisions are made for collecting the assessment by demand on the owner of the lands assessed, and if he
cannot be found, or neglects or refuses to pay, then by sale of
his land for the least number of years that any person will
take the same.
By § 5, the commissioners may from time to time borrow
the necessary moneys to carry on the work of draining the
lands, and give their bonds as such commissioners therefor, and
pledge for the repayment thereof the assessment to be made
as aforesaid.
By proceedings had in accordance with this statute, the
Board of Managers of the Geological Survey, upon the application of more than five owners of separate lots of land situated
in the tract of land known as the Great Meadows on-the

WURTS v. HOAGLAND.
Statement of Facts.

Pequest River, examiied and surveyed the entire tract, and reported a plan for draining it io the Supreme Court, and on
November 15, 1872, three commissioners were appointed to
carry the plan.into execution.
Peliding the proceedings, on March 19, 1874, a supplemental
statute was passed, by § 2 of which, "if the said comnissioners,
after having commenced' the drainage of such tract, and
proceeded therewith, shall, before the drainage of the same
shall be completed, be compelled to suspend the completion
thereof, from any inability at that time to raise the money
required therefor, they shall proceed to ascertain the tracts of
land benefited or intended to be benefited by said drainage,
and the relative pr.oportions in which the said respective tracts
have been or will be benefited thereby, and-also the expenses
already incurred in said drainage, and as near as may be the
additional expenses, required for the completion thereof," and
make and report to the court an assessment of such expenses.
In accoraaiice with that provision of the statute of 1874, the
commissioners, before completing the work, made and reported
to the court an assessment based upon an estimate of contemplated benefits, which was, for that reason, upon objections
filed by Mrs. Wurts, set aside by an order of the Supreme
Court, affirmed by the Court of Errors. 10 Vroom, 433; 12
Froom, 175.
On May 17, 1879, after the completion of the work, the
commissioners made a report to the court, pursuant to the
statute of 1871, showing the expense to have been $107,916.07..
No objections to that report.having been filed after fopir weeks'
notice, the court on June 23, ordered the commissioners to distribute that sum "upon the land mentioned intheir said report,.
in proportion, as nearly as they can judge, to 'the benefit derived from said drainage by the several parcels of land to be.
assessed." The commissioners made an assessment accordingly, the proportion of which on the lands of Mrs. Wurts was
$13,347.81, and, after notice to and hearing of all parties who
desired to object to the assessment, reported it to the Supreme
Cburt, which directed it to be modified as to certain lands of
other parties lying outside the original survey, and in other
VOL. cxrv-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

respects confirmed the assessment, notx'ithstanding objections
made to it by the devisees of Mrs. Wurts; and its judgment
was affirmed in the Court of Errors. 13 Vroom, 553; 14
Vroom, 456. The judgment of the Court of Errors was the
final judgment in the case, and this writ of error was addressed
to the Supreme Court because at the time of suing out the writ
of error the record had been transmitted to that court and was
in its possession. 105 U. S. 701.
The error assigned was that "the act of March 8, 1871, upon
which the said judgment and proceedings are founded, violates
the Constitution of the United States in this, that it deprives
the plaintiffs in error of their property without due process of
law, and denies to them the equal protection of the laws, and
violates the first section of the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States."
_Mr. SamueZ Dickson and _Ar. J. G. S iipman for plaintiffs in
error.
.r'.

Theodore !ittle for defendants in error.

Mr.JUsToE GizAY, after making the foregoing statement of
facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
General laws authorizing the drainage of tracts of swamp
and low lands, by commissioners appointed upon proceedings
instituted by some of the owners of the lands, and the assessment of the whole expense of the work upon all the lands
within the tract in question, have long existed in the State of
New Jersey, and have been sustained and acted on by her
courts, under the Constitution of 1776, ds well as under that of
18 4. Stats. December 23, 1783, Wilson's Laws, 382; iNovember 29, 1788, and November 24, 1792, Paterson's Laws, 84,
119; Jones v. lore, Pennington, 1048; Doremus v. &ritk,
1 Southard, 142; Westeott v. Garrison, 1 Halsted, 132; State
v. Frank & Guisbert Creek Co., 2 J. S. Green, 301; State v.
_Yewark, i Dutcher, 185, 194; Berdan v. Riser -DrainageCo.
cited 3 C. E. Green, 69; Coster v. Tide Water Co., 3 C. E. Green,
54, 68, 518, 531; State v. Blake, 6 Vroomi 208, and 7 Vroom,
442; Htoagland v. Wurts, 12 Vroom,175, 179.

WURTS v. HOAGLAND.
Opinion of the Court.

In State v. Yewark, 3 Dutcher, 185, 194, the Supreme Court
said: "Laws for the drainage or embanking of low grounds,
and to provide for the expense, for the mere benefit of the
proprietors, without reference to the public good, are to be
classed, not under the taxing, but the police power of the government."
In Coster v. Tide WTater Co.; 3 0. E. Green, 54, 518, the same
view was strongly asserted in the Court of Chancery and in
the Court of Errors. The point there decided was that a
statute providing for the drainage of a large tract of land overflowed by tide water, by a corporation chartered for the purpose, none of the members of which owned any lands within
the tract, if it could be maintained as an exercise of the right
of eminent domain for a public use, yet could not authorize an
assessment on the owners of such lands for anything beyond
the benefits conferred upon them. But the case was clearly and
sharply distinguished from the case of .the drainage of lands
for the exclusive benefit of the owners upon proceedings instituted by some of them.
Chancellor Zabriskie said: "But there is another branch of
legislative power.that may be appealed to, as authorizing the
taking of the lands required for the works to drain these
meadows. It is the power of the government to prescribe
public regulations for the better and more economical management of property of persons whose property adjoins, or which,
from some other reason, cana be better managed and improved
by some joint operation, such as the power of regulating the
building of. party walls; making and maintaining partition
fence§ and .ditches; constructing ditches and sewers for the
draining of uplands or marshes, which can more advantageously
be drained by'a common sewer or ditch. This is a well-known
legislative power, recognized and treated of by all jurisconsults
and writers upon law through the civilized world; a branch of
legislative power exercised by this State before and since the Revolution, and before and since the adoption of the present Constitution, and repeatedly recognized by our courts. The legislature has
power to regulate these subjects, either by general law, or by
particular laws for certain localities or particular and defined

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

tracts of land. When the Constitution vested the legislative
power in the Senate and General Assembly, it conferred the
power to make these public regulations as a well understood
part of that legislative power." "The principle of them all is,
to make an improvement common to all concerned, at the common expense of all. And to effect this object, the acts provide
that the works to effect the drainage may be located on any
part of the lands drained, paying the owner bf the land thus
occupied compensation for the damage by such use. So far
private property is taken by them; farther it is not. In none
of them is the owner divested of his fee, and in most there is
no corporation in which it could be vested, and for all other
purposes the title of the Jand remained in the owner. To effect
such common drainage, power was in some cases given to continue these drains through adjacent lands not drained, upon
compensation. All this was ah ancient and well-known exercise of legislative power, and may well be considered as included in the grant of legislative power in the Constitution."
3 C. E. Green, 68-71.
Chief Justice Beasley, in delivering the judgment of the
Court of Errors, enforced the same distinction, saying: " This
case, with regard to the grounds on which it rests, is to be distinguished from that class of proceedings by which meadows
and other lands are drained on the application of the land
owners themselves. In the present instance, the State is the
sole actor, and public necessity or convenience is the only justification of her intervention. But the regulations established by
the legislative power, whereby the owners of meadow lands
are compelled to submit to an equal burden of the expense incurred in their improvement, are rules of police of the same
character as provisions concerning party walls and partition
fences. To these cases, therefore, the principle upon which the
decision of the present case rests is not to be extended." 3 C.
E. Green, 531.
These full and explicit statements have been since treated by
the courts of New Jersey as finally establishing the constitutionality of such statutes.
In State v. Blake, 6 Vroom, 208, and 7 Vroom, 442, a statute

WURTS v. HOAGLAND.
Opinion of the Court.

authorizing a tract of swamps and marsh lands to be drained
by commissioners elected by the owners of the lands, and the
entire expense assessed upon all the owners, was held to be
constitutional, although no appeal was given from the assessment. In the Supreme Court it was said: "This branch of
legislative power which regulates the construction of ditches
and secures the drainage of meadows and marshy lands has
been exercised so long, and is so fully recognized,'that it is now
too late to call it in question, It is clearly affirmed in the Tide
WVater Co. v. Coster, and cannot be opened to discussion." 6
Vroom, 211. And the Court of Errors, in a unanitmous judgment, approved this statement of the Supreme Court, as well
as that of Chief Justice Beasley, in Coster v. Tide Water Co.,
above quoted, 7 Vroom, 447, 448.

The constitutionality of the statute of 1871, under which the
proceedings in the case at bar were had, was upheld by the
Supreme Court and "the Court of Errors upon the *ground of
the previous decisions. Jn re Lower Chatham Drainage, 6
Vroom, 497, 501; In Pe .Pequest River Drainage,10 Vroom,
433, 434; 12 Vroom, 175, 179; 13 Vroom, 553, 554, and 141

Vroom, 456. The f~rther suggestion made by the Supreme
Court in 6 Vroom, 501, 506, and 10 Vroom, 434, that this
statute could be maintained as a taking of private property for
,a public use, was disapproved by the Court of Errors in 12
Vroom, 178.
In Xean v. Diggs .Drainage C6., 16 Vroom, 91, cited for
the plaintiffs in error, the statute that was held unconstitu,tional created a private corporation with power to drain lands
without the consent or application of any of the owners; and
the Supreme Court observed that in the opinions of the Court
of Errors in the present case and in Coster v. Tide TVater Co.,
the distinction was clearly drawn between mead6w drainage
for the exclusive benefit of the owners, to be done at their sole
expense, and drainage undertaken by the public primarily as
a matter of public concern, in which case the assessment
upon land owners must be limited to benefits imparted. 16
Vroom, 94.
This review of the cases clearly shows that general laws for

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

the drainage of large tracts of swamps and low lands, upen
proceedings instituted by some of the proprietors of the lands
to compel all to contribute to the expense of their arainage,
have been maintained by the courts of New Jersey (without
reference to the power of taking private property for the public use under the right of eminent domain, or to the power of
suppressing a nuisance dangerous to the public health) as a just
and constitutional exercise of the power of the legislature to
establish regulations by which adjoining lands, held by various
owners inseveralty, and in the improvement of which all have
a common interest, but which, by reason of the peculiar
natural condition of the whole tract, cannot be improved or
enjoyed by any of them without the concurrence of all, may
be reclaimed arnd made useful to all at their joint expense.
The case comes within the principle upon'which this court upheld the validity of general mill acts in Head v. Amoskeag
.3fanufacturingCo., 11 3U. S. 9.
It is also well settled by the decisions of the courts of New
Jersey that such proceedings are not within the provision of
the Constitution of that State securing the right of trial by
jury. New Jersey Constitution of 1776, art. 22; Constitution
of 1844, art 1, see. 7; Scudder v. Trenton -DelawareFalls Co.,
Saxton, 694, 721-725; 7n 'e Lower Chatham .Drainage,7
Vroom, 442; Howe v. Plaingeld,8 Vroom, 145.
The statute of 1871 is applicable to any tract of land within
the State which is subject to overflow from freshets, or which
is usually in low, marshy, boggy or wet condition. It is only
upon the application of at least five owners of separate lots of
land included in the tract, that a plan of drainage can be
adopted. All persons interested have opportunity by public
notice to object to the appointment of commissioners to execute that plan, and no commissioners can be appointed against
the remonstrance of the owners of the greater part of the
lands. All persons interested have also opportunity by public
notice to be heard before the court on the commissioners' report of the expense of the work, and of the lands which in
their judgment ought to contribute; as well as before the
commissioners, and, on any error in law or in the principles

SCHOFIELD v. CHICAGO & ST. PAUL RAILWAY CO. 615
Statement of Facts.
of assessment, before the court, upon the amount of the assessment.
As the statute is applicable to all lands of the same kind, and
as no person can be assessed under it for the expense of drainage without notice and opportunity to be heard, the plaintiffs
in error have neither been denied the equal protection of the
laws, nor been deprived of their property without due process
of law,- within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Constitution of the United States. Barbierv.' Connolly,
113 U. S. 27, 31; Walker v. Sauvinet, 92 U. S. 90; Davidson
v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97; Hagar v. .Reclamatioi Disrict, 111 U. S. 701.
Judcl'ment affir'med

SCHOFIELD v. CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE AND ST.
PAUL RAILWAY COMiPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT.COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
Argued April 17, 21, 1885.-Decided May 4,18S5.

The doctrine laid down in Railroad Co. v. Houston, 95 U. S. 697, cited and
applied to the facts of this case.
Where a person, in a sleigh drawn by one horse, on a wagon road, approaching
a crossing of a railroad track, with which he was familiar, could have seen
a coming train, during its progress through a distance of 70 rods from the
crossing, if he had looked from a point at any distance within 600 feet from
the crossing, and was struck by the train at the crossing and injured, he
was guilty of contributory negligence, even though the train was not a
regular one, and was running at a high rate of speed, and did not stop
at a depot 70 rods from the crossing in the direction from which the train
came, and did not blow a whistle or ring a bell between the depot and the

crossing.
On these facts, it was proper for the trial court to direct a verdict for the defendant.

This was an action brought by William R. Schofield agains.
the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company, in a
State court of Minnesota, and removed by the defendant into
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Districtof Min-

