CLAWSOIT v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

ordinarily preferred to be seated while crossing in ferry-boats
between Camden and Philadelphia.

No circumstances were

disclosed that would have justified the jury in finding that a
proper degree of care, upon the part of defendant, required it

to provide seats sufficient for the accommodation of all the
passengers that its boat could safely carry, or of such number

of passengers as ordinarily travelled upon it.
The judgment is

A.?1rmned. "

CLAWSON v. UNITED STATES.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
Argued April 8, 1885.-Decided April 20, 18S5.

Under § 5 of the act of Congress of March 22, 182, 22 Stat. 30, which prorides, "that in any prosecution for bigamy, polygamy, or unlawful cohabitation, under any statute of the United States, it shall be sufficient cause of
challenge, to any person drawn or summoned as a juryman or talesman,
. . . that hebelieves it right for a man to have more than one living and
undivorced wife at the same time," the proceedings to empanel the grand
jury which finds an indictment for one of the offences named, under a
statute of the United States, against a person not before held to answer,
are a part of the prosecution, and the indictment is good, although persons
drawn and summoned as grand jurors were excluded by the court from
serving on the grand jury, on being challenged by the United States, for
the cause mentioned, the challenges being found true.
The Statute applies to grand jurors.
Where, under § 4 of the act of Congress of June 23,1874, 18 Stat. 254, "in relation to courts and judicial officers in the Territory of Utah," in the trial
of an indictment, the names in the jury-box of 200 jurors, provided for'by
that section, are exhausted, when the jury is only partly empanelled, the
District Court may issue a venire to the United States marshal for the
Territory, to summon jurors from the body of the judicial district, and the
jury may be completed from persons thus summoned.

This writ of error was sued out to review an indictment and
conviction of the plaintiff in error for polygamy, and for co-labiting with more than one woman, against the laws of the
United States.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Oninion of the Court.

-M. Wayne lYe Teagh and Mr.Franklin S. Richards for
plaintiff in error.
_J1r. Solicitor-Generalfor defendant in error.
IR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
At April Term, 1884, of the Third Judicial District Court of
Utah Territory, Rudger Clawson was indicted, under two
counts, in the same indictment, one for polygamy, and the
other for cohabiting with more than one woman. The first
count was founded on § 5,352 Rev. Stat. as amended by § 1 of
the act of March 22, 1882, 22 Stat. 30; and the second on § 3
of that act. By § 4, counts for those offences may be joined
in the same indictment. The defendant was tried in October,
1884, and found guilty on both counts, as charged, and sentenced, on the first count, to pay a fine of $500, and to be imprisoned three years and six months; and, on the second count,
to -pay a further fine of $300, and to be imprisoned the further
term of six months; and, further, to be confined till the fines
be paid. From'this judgment he appealed to the Supreme
Court of the Territory, which affirmed the judgment and sentence, and he brought the case to this court by a writ of error.
The indictment was presented and filed in court, April 24,
1884. On the 30th of April, 188.4, before plea, the defendant
moved to set aside the indictment, on the ground that the grand
jury was not legally constituted, in that qualified grand jurors,
drawn and summoned, were illegally excluded from the grand
jury, on the challenge of the prosecuting attorney. The motion
was heard on an agreed statement of facts, which is set out in
the bill of exceptions, and was overruled, and the defendant
excepted to the decision. The first error here assigned is, that
that motion was improperly overruled.
By § 4 of the act of Congress of June 23, 1874, 18 Stat. 254,
entitled "An. Act in relation to courts and judicial officers in
the Territory of Utah," it is provided as follows: "That within
sixty days after the passage .of this act, and in the month of
January annually thereafter, the clerk of the District Court in
each judicial district, and the judge of probate of the county in

CLAWSON v. UNITED STATES.

\ 479

Opinion of the Court.

which the District Court is next to be held, shall prepare a
jury list from which grand and petit jurors shall be drawn, to
serve in the District Courts of such district, until a new list
shall be made as herein provided. Said clerk and probate
judge shall alternately select the name of a male citizen of the
United States who has resided in the district for the period of
six months next preceding, and who can read and write in the
English language; and, as selected, the name and residence of
each shall be entered upon the list, until the same shall contain
two hundred names, when the same shall be duly certified by
such clerk and probate judge; and the same shall be'filed in
the office of the clerk of such District Court, and a duplicate
copy shall be made and certified by such officers, and filed in
the office of said probate judge. Whenever a grand or petit
jury is to be drawn to serve at any term of a District Court, the
judge of such district shall give public notice of the time and
place of the drawing of such - jury, which shall be at least
twelve days before the commencement of such term; and on
the day and at the place thus fixed, the judge of such district
shall hold an open session of his court, and shahl preside at the
drawing of such jury; and the clerk of such court §hall write
the name of each person on the jury lists returned and fied in
his office upon a separate slip of paper, as nearly as practicable
of the same size and form, and all such slips shall, by the clerk
in open court, be placed in a covered box, and thoroughly
mixed and mingled; and thereupon the United States marshal,
or his deputy, shaif proceed to fairly draw by lot from, said box
such number of names as may have previously been directed
by said judgq; and if both a-grand and petit jury are to be drawn,
the grand jury shall be drawri first; and when the drawing
shall have been concluded, the clerk of the District Court shall
issue a venire to the marshal or his deputy, directing him to
summon the persons so drawn, and the same shall be duly
served on each of the persons so drawn at least seven days
be'fre the commencement of the term atwhich they are to
serve; and the jurors so drawn and summoned shall constitute
the regular grand and petit juries forthe term for all cases.
And the names thus drawn from the box by the clerk shall not

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

be returned to or again placed in said box until a new jury list
shall be made. If during any term of the District Court any
additional grand or petit jurors shall be necessary, the same
shall be drawn from saint box by the United States marshal in
open court; but if the attendance of those drawn cannot be
obtained in a reasonable time, other names may be drawn in
the same manner. . . . The grand jury must inquire into
the case of every person imprisoned within the district on a
"
criminal charge and not indicted.
A jury list of two hundred persons from which to draw
grand and petit jurors for the Third Judicial District Court for
the year 1884 was made, certified and filed in the office of the
clerk of the court, under the above-cited provisions of the act
of June 23, 1874, and a number was set opposite to each name.
Those having even numbers opposite to their names were
selected by the probate judge, and were reputed Mormons,
and those having odd numbers opposite to their names were
selected by the clerk of the court, and were reputed not to be
Mormons. On the 31st of March, 1884, at a session of the
court, thirty names were drawn from the jury list, from which
to empanel a grand jury for the April term, 1884. Of these
thirty, thirteen had even numbers, and seventeen odd numbers.
Of the thirty, five did not appear or were excused, leaving
twenty-five, of whom ten had even numbers and fifteen odd
numbers. Those twenty-five persons, during the proceedings
to empanel the grand jury, were all called and sworn and examined as to their qualifications as grand jurors, fifteen of
them being each asked the following questions: "Do you
believe in the doctrine and tenets of the Mormon church? Do
you believe in the doctrine of plural marriage, as taught by
the Mormon church? Do you believe it is right for a man to
have more than one undivorced wife living at the same time ?"
Each of the fifteen persons so interrogated answered the questions affirmatively, each was thereupon challenged by the prosecuting attorney, and the court allowed the challenges, and
excluded each of those fifteen persons from the grand jury.
Thus every one of the twenty-five persons who was a reputed
Mormon was excluded from the grand jury. Each of the

CLAWSON v. UN-'ITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

fifteen persons so interrogated had all the qualifications prescribed by law for grand jurors, unless disqualified by such
answers. The defendant had not been iharged with, or held
to answer, the offences charged in the indictment, or any criminal offence, at the time the grand jury was emlqanelled; the
examination of the persons called as grand jurors, and the
challenges, were wholly conducted and made by the prosecuting
attorney; and no questions were propounded to, or answered
by, persons with odd numbers opposite their names, respecting
their religious belief. After those fifteen persons were excluded, only ten grand jurors accepted by the United States
remained out of the list of thirty originally drawn; and thereupon the court ordered a drawing of ten additional names from
the general list of two hundred, which was done, three having
even numbers, and seven odd numbers. A venire was issued
for the ten, a-nd six of them appeared, all having odd numbers,
and five of the six were added to the ten accepted, and the
jury, as empanelled and sworn, consisted of those fifteen, all
of them reputed non-Mormons, and it found and presented the
indictment against the defendant.
The challenging and exclusion of the fifkeen persons is maintained to have been proper, under § 5 of the act of March 22,
1882, before referred to, and which'reads as follows: "That
in any- prosecution for bigamy, polygamy or unlawful cohabitation, under any statute of the United States, it shall
be* sufficient cause. of challenge to any person drawn -or
summoned as a juryman or talesman, first, that he is or
has been living in the practice of bigamy, polygamy or
unlawful cohabitation with. more than one woman, or
that he is or has been guilty of an offence punishable
by either of the foregoing sections, or by section fiftythree hundred and fifty-two of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, or the act of July first, eighteen hundred -and
sixty-two entitled, 'An Act to punish and prevent the practice
of polygamy in the Territories of the United States and other
places, and disapproving and annulling certain acts of the
Ldgislative Assembly of the Territory of UStah,' or second,
that he believes it right for a man to have more than one livVOL. cxIv--31

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

ing and undivorced wife at the same time, or to live in the
practice of cohabiting with more than one woman; and any
person appearing or offered as a juror or talesman, and challenged on either of the foregoing grounds, may be questioned
on his oath as to the.existence of any such cause of challenge,
and other evidence may be introduced bearing upon the question raised by sucll challenge; and this question shall be tried
by the court. But as to the first ground of challenge before
mentioned, the person challenged shall not be bound to answer
if he shall say upon his oath that he declines on the ground
that his answer may tend to criminate himself; and if he shall
answer as tosaid first ground, his answer shall not be given in
evidence in any criminal prosecution against him for any
offence named in sections one or three of this act; but if he
declines to answer on any ground, he shall be rejected as incompetent."
As each of the fifteen persons challenged and excluded, answered, when questioned on oath, that he believed it right for
a man to have more than one undivorced wife living at the
same time, he was properly excluded, if § 5 of the act applied
to the case.
It is contended that that section did not apply because the
defendant had not been held to answer, and there was no prosecution against him. The language of the section is, that "in
any prosecution for bigamy, polygamy, or unlawful cohabitation, under any statute of the United States, it shall be sufficient cause of challenge," etc. It is urged that the proceedings
to empanel a grand jury were not part of a prosecution, and
that the prosecution could not begin until after the grand jury
had been completely empanelled. But we think this is too
narrow a view of the statute. The whole scope of § 5 is to
prescribe what shall be sufficient causes of challenge to be
made by the United States in a case of bigamy, polygamy, or
unlawful cohabitation. It is the United States alone who would
desire to exclude from the grand jury persons answering the
descriptions named in the section. It is not contemplated that
a person to be prosecuted for the offences specified would
challenge for any of the causes set forth. The mischief to be

CLAWSON v. UNITED STATES
Opinion of the Court.

remedied was the having as grand jurors, against the interest
of the United States, the persons specified, in a prosecution for
the particular offences named. If the grand jury enters upon
the investigation of cases involving the offences designated,
and such investigation results in the finding of an indictment
for any of those offences, it cannot properly be alleged by the
dpfendant in the indictment that the prosecution did not, within
the meaning of § 5, begin with the first step in the proceedings
to obtain the grand jury which found. the indictment. And,
for the protection of the defendant himself, it would necessarily
be equally held that he was entitled to claim that such proceedings were a part of the prosecution against him, because
otherwise he could have no right to question those proceedings.
The prosecution was one for offences created by a statute of
the United States. .,That is the meaning of § 5 of the Act.
And it is not an objection that can be urged by this defendant
that the same grand jury might have been called upon to act
on other offences than those named in that section.
It is also urged that § 5 does not apply to grand jurors. The
language is, "any person drawn or summoiied as a juryman or
talesman"-" any person appearing or offered as a juror or
talesman." In view of the fact that by § 4 of 'the act of J-une
23, 184, both grand jurors and petit jurors are to be drawn
from the box containing the two hundred names, and are. to be
summoned under venires, and are to constitute the regular grand
and petit juries fot the term, and of the further fact that the
persons to be challenged and excluded are persons not likely to
find indictments for the offences iamed in § 5, we cannot
doubt that the words "juryman" and " juror" include a grand
jdror as well as a petit juror. There is as much ground for
holding that it includes the former alone, as the latter alone, if
it is to include but one. It must include one at least, and we
think it includes both. The purpose and reason of the section
include the grand juror; and there is nothing in the language
repugnant to such view. The use of the words "drawn or
sumumoned as a juryman or talesman," and of the words "appearing or offered as a juror or talesman," does not have the

OCTOBER TERM'. 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

effect of confining the meaning of "juror" to "petit juror," on
the view that the ordinary meaning of "talesman" refers to a
petit juror. A grand juror is a juryman and a juror, and is
drawn and summoned, and it might well have been thought
wisest to mention a "talesman" specifically, lest the words
"juryman" and "juror" might be supposed not to include him.
It is objected that none of the grand jurors who were retained on the panel were interrogated as to whether they
believed it right for a man to live in the practice of cohabiting
with more than one woman.. As to this it is sufficient to say,
that the challenges were based on the affirmative answers to
the third question, and that the statute only specifies what
shall be a sufficient cause of challenge, and does not compel the
making of the challenge or the asking .of the questions.
After the motion to set aside the indictment was overruled,
the trial was had, on a plea of not guilty. In empanelling a
jury, it appeared that the list of jurors drawn and summoned
for the term, and also the general jury list fo the year, consisting of two hundred names selected and returned for a
general jury list, were exhausted, and that no names remained
in the general jury box. Thereupon, the prosecuting attorney,
on the ground that the jury list provided for by statute was'exhausted, moved the court that an open venire issue, to summon
such jurors as were necessary. The defendant objected to the
i~suing of an open venire or any venire for jurors, on the
ground that there was no law authorizing it. The court overruled the objection, and the defendant excepted. By an order
of the court, a venire was then issued to the United States
marshal for Utah Territory, commanding him to summon from
the body of the judicial district fifty jurors. They were summoned, and, on the return of the venire, the panel was challenged by the defendant because the jurors were selected and
summoned on an open venire. The challenge was overruled
and the defendant excepted. Like proceedings took place in
respect to two further open venires for thirty and twenty-four
jurors respectively. Of the twelve persons who composed the
jury, eleven were' obtained from those summoned under the
open venires.

CLAWSON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Cort.

It is assigned for error, that the petit jury was illegally coiistituted, in that the court had no right to summon petit jurors
on an open venire. The argument is, that the provisions of
§ 4 of the act of June 23, 1874, are, on- their face, exclusive;
that the method prescribed by that section for obtaining jurors
is the only one that can be employed; that only the probate
judge and the clerk of the court can select the jurors, and make
the jury list; that the grand and petit jurors for a term must
be drawn by the marshal from a box containing names of persons thus selected, and constitute the regular grand and petit
juries for the term; that if, during the term, any additional
grand or petit jurors are necessary, they must be drawn by the
marshal, in open. court, from the same box; and that, if the
two hundred names are all drawn out, for grand or petit
jurors, at any time during the year, there can be no more indictments found, or-any'more civil or criminal jury trials had,
in the court of the district, for the rest of the year, becinse it
is provided in § 4 that the jurors drawn from the box shall be
jurors only for the term, of which there are four in the year,
and that the names drawn shall not be again placed in the box.
until a new jury list is made, which is to be done annually in
January. A result so disastrous to the administration of justice, so certain to impair, if not destroy, public and private
rights, is not to be permitted, -unless imperatively required.
The act of Juiae23, 1874, does not prescribe the making of a
new list by the probate judge and clerk except once a year, in
January, or the making by them of an additional list, at any
time .during the year., But that act does not directly, or by
implication or intendment, exclude the use of an open venire
when the two hundred names are exhausted during the year.
It provides that the jurors drawn and summoned shall constitute "the regular grand and petit juries for the term, for all
cases." By other provisions of law, each of the District Courts
of the Territory is required to hold four terms a year. There
is no doubt that jurors must be drawn. from the two hundred
names, or those of them remaining in the box, so long as any
remain. But the question is: What is to be done when those
names are..exhausted? If there is no method that cdn be re.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court,

sorted to to obtain jurors, in such event, the provisions in § 5
of the act of 1882, for challenges by the United States, with
a view to indictments for the offences named in that section,
will have proved suicidal, and resulted in destroying all opportunity to find or try such indictments. We are not referred to
any statutory provision, in any act of Congress, or any act of
the Territory, which forbids the use of an open venire when
the two hundred names are exhausted. The argument is, that
the provisions of § 5 of the act of 1882 cover the entire subject
of obtaining jurors, and do not allow of any supplementary
measures; and that such measures cannot be resoyted to unless
affirmative statute authority, directed to the very point, is to
be found.
The Supreme Court of Utah, in its opinion affirming the
judgmeit in the present case, did not refer to any statute of
Congress, or of the Territory, directly authorizing the open
veniire, but rested the power to issue it on the fact that such
power was inherent in the court and was not forbidden by any
statute in force in Utah; anal held that it followed as an incident to the authority and duty of the District Court to hold its
sessions and try by jury indictments for crimes. We concur
in this view, so far as the resort to the open venire after the
exhaustion of the two hundred names is concerned.
Section 4 of the act of 1874 prescribes the rule to be observed,
to the extent in which it prescribes any rule. It proceeds on the
view that the jury list of two hundred names will be sufficient
for ordinary purposes, or, as it expresses it, for "the regular
grand and petit juries for the term;" and it provides what
shall be done so long as there are any names left in the box.
But it is silent as to what shall take place when the names are
all exhausted. It does not forbid'the ordinary and well known
resort to an open venire. Mloreover, § 5 of the act of 1882, in
regard to prosecutions like the present, one, prescribes what
shall be a sufficient cause of challenge to a person "drawn or
summoned as a juryman or talesman," and what questions may
be put to "any person appearing or offered as a juror or talesman," thus recognizing a "talesman" as distinct from a "juryman" or a "juror." The persons drawn from the box of two

CLAWSON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

hundred names are "jurors," and are so defined and called in
§ 4 of the act of 1874. Congress, therefore, in using the word
'ctalesman," had reference to a person not drawn from such
box. The word "talesman" is not satisfied by referring it to
the additional jurors which § 4 of the act of 1874 says may and
shall be drawn from the box, if they "shall be necessary," during the term. They are not talesmen, in any proper sense,"but
are as much regular jurors as those first drawn from that -box.
The principle which authorized the action of the court in
obtaining petit jurors, in this case, after the statutory measures
had been exhausted, is sanctioned by authority. Bac. Ab.,
Juries, C.; 1 Chitt. Crim. Law, 518; 2 Hale P. C. 265, 266;
United States v. Hill, 1 Brock. 156 ; fackey v. The People, 2
Colorado, 13 ; Stone v. The People, 2 Scammon, 326 ; Straughan
v. The. State, 16 Ark. 37, 43; Wilburn v. The State, 21 Ark.
108, 201; Gibson v. The Commonwealth, 2 Yirg. Oases, 111,
121; Shafer v. The State, 1 How. (Miss.) 238, 241; T"oodsides
v. The State, 2 How. (Mliss.) 655, 659; State v. Hlarris,Supreme
Court of Iowa, September, 1884, 17 Chic. Legal News, 58. By
§ 1868 Rev. Stat., the District Courts of the Territory have
common law jurisdiction, and, under § 1874 of the Revised
Statutes and § 1061 of the Compiled Laws of Utah of 1876,
those courts have original jurisdiction in criminal cases. By
§ 217 of the Criminal' Procedure Act of Utah of February 22,
1878, all issues of fact. in criminal cases must be tried by jury,
and by § 7 the defendant in a criminal action is entitled to a
speedy trial. A venire to summon jurors is a writ necessary
to the exercise of the jurisdiction of the court and agreeable to
the principles and usages of law, where it is not forbidden or
excluded, and where the affirmative provisions of.law have, so
far as they extend, been first observed. In United States v.
Bill (before cited), Chief Justice 'Marshall, speaking of the law
as it then existed, says: "It has been justly observed, that no act
of .Congress directs grand juries, or defines their powers. By
what authority; then, are they summoned, and whence do they
derive their powers? The answer is, that the laws of the
United" States have erected courts which are invested with
criminal jurisdiction. This jurisdiction they are bound to ex.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

ercise, and it can only be exercised through the instrumentality
of grand juries. They are, therefore, given by a necessary and
indispensable i'mplication. But, how far is this implication
necessary and indispensable? The answer is obvious. Its
necessity is co-extensive with that jurisdiction to which it is
essential," page 159.
The cases to which we are referred by the plaintiff in error
were cases where express statute provisions had been disregarded 6r violated. If, in this case, an open venire had been
issued before the two hundred names were exhausted, a different question would have been presented.
The recdrd shows no error, and
Thejudgment is ajimied.

HOPT v. UTAH.
IN FAMOR

TO THE SUPRE

E COURT

OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.

Submitted January 28, 18.-Decfded April 20, 8M.

Under the Utah Code of Criminal Procedure of 1878, a judgment upon a verdict of guilty of murder, the record of which states that the courf charged
the jury. and does not contain the charge in writing, nor show that with
the defendant's consent it was given orally, is erroneous, and must be reversed on appeal.

This was a writ of error to reverse a judgment rendered by
the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah, affirming, upon
appeal from the District Court of the Third Judicial District
of the Territory, a judgment and sentence of death upon a
conviction of murder. The decisions of this court, after
former trials of the case, are reported in 104 U. S. 631, and 110
U. S. 574.
One of the errors assigned in the brief filed in behalf of the
plaintiff in error was that the record did not comply with the
statute of Utah requiring that the -writtencharges of the. court
should form part of the record.

