'DETROIT RAILWAY- CO.v: GUTHARD.

133

Syllabus.

made by an officer in the District of Columbia. No appearance is thereby entered in the cause. Service of the subpoena
in the District is acknowledged, but nothing more. In. the
letter which followed the indorsement of service, both counsel
and the court were informed that the Commissioner declined
to appear. The parties proceeded, therefore, at their own risk
and Without the consent of the defendant to the jurisdiction of
the court. Such being the case, we are of opinion that the..
court was without jurisdiction and had no authority to enter
the decree which has been appealed from. The act of Congress exempts a defendant from suit in any districtof which
he is not an inhabitant, or in which he is not found at the time
of the service bf the:writ. It is an exemption which he may
waive, but unless waived he need not answer and will not be
bound by anything which may be done against him in his absence.. What is here said of course does not apply to cases
where the suit is brought and service is madeunder §§, 736, '37,.
and 738 of the Revised.Statutes.
Without considering any of the other questions which have
been presented in the argument, or which might be suggested
under the statute,
WTe reverse the decree of the Circuit Court and -remand the
cause, with instructions to dismiss the i1l withdot Y.erudicfor want ofjurisdiction.

DETROIT-CITY RAILWAY COMPANY v. GUTHARD.
ntT. ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
Submitted March 2, 1883.-Decided Match30, 1885.
The ju-isdiction of this court for the review of a judgment of the highest court
of a State depends on the dpeision -bythat court of one or more of the questions.specified in § 709 Rev. Stat. in the way ther'ein mentioned.
If it does not appear affirmatively that the Federal question raised here was
raised below, and was decided, or that its decision was, necessary to the
judgment rendered, this 6ourt has no jurisdiction in error over the judg-

ment of such State court.

OCTOBER -TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.
This was a motion to dismiss, because the record did not

show that any federal question was involved in the case in the
State court.
,.fr.-Henry . Dufield for the motion.
-Mr. George F. Edmun s, .r.
.A. Baker opposing.

John C. Donnelly and Mr.F.

MR.CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
-This is a motion to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme
Court of Michigan on the ground that the record does not
show that any federal question is involved. The case is this :
The Detroit City Railway Company was organized in May,
1863, under a general law of Michigan to provide for the construction of Train Railways, passed February 13,1855, to operate
a street railway in Detroit. Art. 15, sec. 1, of the Constitution of -the State, which went into effect January 1, 1851, is'
as follows: "Corporations may be formed under general. laws,- but shall
not be created by special act, except for municipal purposes.
All laws passed pursuant to this section may be amended,
altered or repealed."
§§ 22 and 31 of the law under which the railway company

was incorporated are as follows:
"SEc. 22. Each and every railway company formed under

this abt shall pay to the Treasurer of the State of Michigan an
annual tax at the rate of one-half of one per.cent. on the whole
amount of capital paid in upon the capital stock of said company, which said tax shall be estimated upon the last prbceding report of said company, and shall be paid to the said
treasurer on the first Monday of July in each year, and shall
be in lieu of all other taxes upon all the property of aid company."
"SEc. 31. The Legislature may at any time alter, amend, or
repeal this act; but such alteration, amendment, or repeal shall
not operate as an alteration or amendment of the corporate
rights of companies formed under it, unless specially named in

DETROIT RAILWAY CO. v. °GUTHARD.
Opinion of the Court.

the act so altering or amending this act, nor shall the dissolution of any such company take away or impair any remedy
given for or against said corporation, its stockholders, or
officers for any liability which shall have bden previouslj iu
carred."
§ 22 of this act was. repealed 'March 13, 1882. In the repealing act the Detroit City Railway Company was not specially nama-n.
On the.14th of March, 1882, a general tax law was enacted.
This law provided that all property within the jurisdiction of
the State not expressly exempt should be subject to taxation,
'and that all -corporate property, except when some other provision is made by law, should be assessed to the corporation as
to a natural person in the name of the corporation.
Under the authority of this last law, the city of Detroit
assessed a tax on the property of the railway company, and
Guthard, the receiver of taxes for--the city, on failure of the.
company to. comply with his demand for payment, in regtlar
course of his proceedings for the collgetion, levied upon sixtyone horses to-sell at public-action and,..m etlmthe-money. The
company thereupon brought an.actiom of replevin for the recovery of the horses. Upon the trial of this action the only
question in dispute was as to the validity of thetax. The
Supreme Court of the State, on writ of error, decided'that the
tax was valid, and gave judgment accordingly. To reverse6
that judgment this writ of error was brought.
The rule -which governs our jurisdiction in this class of cases
is thus stated by Mr. Justice Miller. for the court in Bridge
Proprietorsv. Hobokez- Co., 1 Wall. 116, 143: "The court
must be able to-see clearly, from thei-whole record, that a certain provision of the Constitution or act of Congress was relied
on by the party who brings .the writ of error, and that. the
right thus claimed by him was denied." In Urowell v. 1andell,
10 Pet. 368, 398, one: of the propositions "established," after
a careful review of 'the cases, was, "that it is not sufficient, to
show that a question might have-arisen, or been applicable to
the case, unless itis further shown, on the record, tha .it did
arise, and was applied by the State court in the case." And,^at

I

OCTOBER- TERM, f884. Opinion of the Court.

the'last term, in Choteau v. Gibson, 111 U. S. 200, it was said:
"From the beginning it has been held that, to give us jurisdic-.
tion in this class of cases, it must. appear affirmatively on -the
face of the record, not only thata federal question was raised
and -presented to the highest court of the State for decision,
but that it was decided, or that its decision was necessary to
the judgment or decree- rendered in the case." .ifurdoch v..
'rempis, 20 Wall. 590, 636.
The'reason of this rule is obvious. Our jurisdiction for the
review of a judgifieut of the highest court of a State depends
on te dec sion by that court of one or more of the questions,
specified ih § 709 Rev. Stat., and in the way there mentioned.
if tlhere has been no such decision in the suit, there can be Ao
re-examination of the judgment here. It is what, was actually
decided that we are to consider, not what might have been
decided; and, as our jurisdiction must appear affirmatively on
-the face of the'record before we can proceed, the record must
shoiv either in express terms or by fair implication, not only,
the. question, but its decision.. It is' not enough to find by
searching after judgment, that the requisite question might
have been raised and piesented for decision. It must appear
that-it -was actually raised and actually decided. Brown v.
Colorado, 106 U. S. 95, 97.
.It remains only to apply this well established rule to the
facts 'as they appear in this record. The claim now is that,
under the operation of §§ )2 and 31 of the incorporating act,
the State entered into a c6ntract with this corporation not to
subj6ct it 'to taxation otherwise than in the way'provided in
§ 22, unless it did so by a statute in, which the companyshould
,be specially named. The xecord certainly does -not show that
any such claim-was made-in the State courts, or that such a
*question was raised or -presented for decision, or that it was
decided. ,Nothing of the kind appears, either in the pleadings
or the findings of fact onwhich alone the case was. heard in
ihe SupremeCourt. Th(l apparent question presented for decision was whether the State had changed the mbdeof taxation
by.-what was done, not whether it was prohibited by the Constitution of the United States from doing so without specifying

DETROIT RAILWAY CO. v. GUTHARD.
Opinikn of the Court.

that the repeal of § 22, and. the provisions of the general tax
law of 1882, were to operate on this particular company, and
referring to it by name. No judge, in deciding the case as it
came up on the record, would be likely to s-uppose that, if he
gave judgment for the receiver of taxes, he would deny the
company any "right, title, privilege or immunity" "specially
set up or claimed" under the Constitution of the United States.
It is true that such a right might have been set up and claimed,
and if the court below had certified in proper form that it was,'
and that it was denied, we could have taken jurisdiction. The
court has, however, not only not made such a certificate, but it
has expressly refused to do so upon application specially made
for that purpose. All this appears affirmatively in the motion'
papers.
We are referred to the opinion of the court below, which is
found in the transcript, as showing a decision of the federal
question involved. The Constitution of iMichigan requires that
the opinion of the Supreme Court shall be in writing, signed by
the judges concurring therein, and filed by the clerk. Fiom
the opinion, in*this case it appears that the point determined,.
and on which the judgment rested, was that the term "corporate rights" as used in, § 31, did not 'include incidental
privileges and immunities, such as a special standard of taxation. No reference whatever -is made to any question of,
charter contract.
On the whole-we are satisfied we have no jurisdiction in the
case, and
SThe mwooi to dismiss is granted.

