SARGENT v. HALL SAFE AND LOCK COMPANY.

63

Opinion of the Court.

SARGENT v. HALL SAFE AND" LOOK COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF'THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Argued January 21,26,1885.-Decided March 80, 1865.

IA letters patent No. 186,069, granted to James Sargent, January 16, 1877, for
improvements in time-locks, the combination-lock forming a member of
the combinations claimed by the two claims of the patent, is one which has
a bolt or bearing that turns on an axis or -evolves, as distinguished from a
sliding-bolt, and those claims are not infringed by a structure in. which the
combination-lock has not a turning or revolving-bolt.
Claim 2 of the patent requires that the tumblers of the.combination lock and
its spindle shall be free to rotate while the bolt-work is held in its locked
position, by the bolt or bearing of the combination-lock.
In patents for combinations' of mechanism, limitations and provisos imposed
by the inventor, especially such as were introduced into an"application after
it had been persistently rejected, must be strictly construed against the
inventor, and in favor of the public, and looked upon as in the nature of
disclaimers.

Bill in equity to re§train the infringement of a patent. The
facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of the
court.
,Xrf. Edmund TFetmor' and XP. George T. Curtis for appllants.
.3r.EIdward I. --Dickerson and William C. Cochran for appellee.,
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity, brought in March, 1877, in the Circuit Court of the United States for' the Southern District of

Ohio, by Tames Sargent, the appellant, against the Hall Safe'
,and look Company and othe.rs, the appellees, for the infringementof letters-patent No. 186,369, granted to Sargent, January
16, 1877,for improvements in time-locks. 'It was afterwards
consolidated, as of November, 1879, with another suit in equity,

brought in July, 1876, in the same court, by the same plaintiff

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

against the same defendants, for the infringement of reissued
letters patent No. 6,787, granted to Sargent, December 7, 1875,
for improvements in time-locks, on the surrender of original
letters patent No. 121,782, granted to Stephen W. Hollen,
December 12, 1871. The Circuit Court heard the case on
pleadings and proofs and dismissed the bill. The plaintiff has
appealed, but no claim is made in this court to recover on the
JIollen reissue.
The specification and claims of No. 186,369 are as follows:
"Be it known that I, James Sargent, of Rochester, in the
county of Monroe, and State of New York, have invented certain new and useful improvements in locks for safe and vault
doors, of which the following is a specification:
"This invention relates to certain improvements in locks for
safe and vault doors, its object being to construct a time-movement in guch a manner as to have it guard, and operate in
conjunction with, a combination-lock, so as to render said combination-lock, when locked, inoperative and incapable of being
unlocked until the arrival of the appointed hour, at which time
the time-mechanism will liberate or cease its guarding action on
the combination-lock, and admit of said lock being operated
and unlocked by the person having knowledge of the combination upon which said lock is set, so as to enable the boltwork of the safe or vault door to be retracted and the door
opened.
" My invention consists in combining a time-mechanism with
a combination-lock, and adapting the same to operate in connection with the bolt-work of a safe or vault door, the timemechanism being constructed to act in conjunction with, and
guard, dog, or render inoperative, the aforesaid combinationlock, when locked, the said combination-lock having a bolt or
bearing specially constructed and arranged, so that, when in
one position, it will rest upon or receive the pressure of the boltwork of the door when the latter is thrown out and the lock
locked, and thus prevent the retraction of the bolt-work.
"This arrangement retains the bolt-work in a locked condition
during the hours appointed for it to remain locked, and prevents the lock from being unlocked by any one having legiti-

SARGENT v. HALL SAFE AND LOCK COMPANY.. 65
Opinion of the Court.

mate or surreptitious knowledge of the combination upon *vhich
the lock is set, until the arrival of the appointed hour, when
the time-mechanism will cease its dogging or guarding action
upon said combination-lock, and admit of said lock being
operated by those in possession of the combination, so as to'
enable them to place the bolt or bearing of the lock in such
position as to enable the retraction of the bolt-work, whereby
the safe or vault door can be opened.
".The invention further consists in a certain combination, substantially as hereinafter set forth,'that is to say, a union consisting df a combination-lock, a time-movement and a yokelever or connection, adapted to be placed upon a safe or vault
door, to operate in conjunction with the bblt-work thereon,
said yoke-lever or connection being constructed and located in
such respect to the combination-lock as to render the unlocking
of the same absolutely impossible when locked, and so remain
locked until the arrival of the appointed or predeterminate
time, at which time the said yoke-lever or connection, through
the action of the time-movement, is caused to cease its guarding or dogging action upon the combination-lock, at which
time, or any time after during the time the time-mechanism
has ceased its dogging or guarding action, the said lock can'be
unlocked by the person in possession of the proper combination
upon which the lock is set, the peculiarity and novelty of this
union being, that, when the said combination-lock, with its
time-mechanism, is arranged upon a safe or vault door, to,
operate in conjunction with the bolt-work thereon, and all
locked, the tumblers or combination-wheels of said lock, and
the spindle of the same, together with its usual indicator, areall left free to be moved or rotated without, exerting any unlocking action or strain whatever upon the mechanism composing the combination-lock, or the delicate mechanism composing the time-movement.
"In the drawings, figure 1 represents a portion of a safe or:Vftult door, illustrating therein a bolt-work and a combined:
time-mechanism and combination-lock, with covers removed;.
the bolt-work being thrown out into the jamb of the door, and
the combination-lock locked and guarded by the time-moveVOL. Cx1V-5

'OCTOBER

TERM, 1884.

Opinion of the Court.

ment. Fig. 2 is a detail view, illustrating a yoke-lever or connection adapted to connect with the dog, angle-bar, or fence
of the combination-lock. Fig. 3 represents a portion of a safe

or vault door, having thereon a bolt:work and a combined timemechanism and combination-lock, the combination-lock being
unlocked and the bolt-work retracted.

SARGENT v. HALL SAFE ANV LOCK COMPANY.

67

Opinion of the Court.

"Referring to the drawings, the letter A 'designates the case
of a combination-lock, the lock-works of which may be of any
of the well-known forms now in use, provided the same is supplied with a lock-bolt or a bearing, constructed and arranged
so as to connect with or receive the pressure of the bolt-work
located on a safe or vault door, when said lock-bolt or bearing
and the bolt-work are placed in a position for locking the door.
I IR~r
b-11
-11

.Q
II-1 1 J UI-NF.I5.'I-l1,- R

"The combination-lock illustrated in the drawings is one
known as 'Sargent's Automatic Bank-Lock,'- upon which letters patent were granted August 28, 1866, reissued January 2,
1872.
"Said combination-lock is shown as applied upon a safe, or
vault door, 13, upon which is arranged a bolt-work, consisting
of' the usual bolt-supporting bars, 0, bolts, D, carrying-bar, ,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

having a tongue-piece, F, said carrying-bar serving as a medium
for projecting or retracting the bolts into and out of the sockets, a, constructed in the jamb of the safe or vault, for the purpose
of locking or unlocking the door, as shown in Figs. 1 and 3.
"The bolt-work has the'requisite projecting or retracting mo.
tion imparted to it from the outside of the door, when opened
or closed, through the medium of the usual knob, b, and the
spindle, c, which spindle passes through the door, and connects
with the carrying-bar by any suitable fastening, such as a slot,
d, pin, c, and suitable fastening-nut.
"The lock-bolt or bearing of the combination-lock may be of
a circular, segmental, or other desired form, provided said lockbolt is arranged and adjusted so as to turn upon a suitable axis
or bearing, and is so constructed that, in one position, it will

prevent the retraction of the bolt-work, so as to retain the safe
or vault door locked, while, in another position, it will admit
of the bolt-work being retracted for the purpose of allowing
the safe or vault door to be opened.
"In the present example, the lock-bolt is shown as provided
with an offset or recess, f, which offset or recess is brought in
or out of coincidence with the tongue-piece on the carryingbar, to admit of the boltwork being projected or retracted
through the medium of a sliding-bar, H, which carries a dog,
fence, or angle-bar, , having a hook, g, which engages with
the bit, h, of the cam, K, secured upon the dial-spindle, i, which
spindle passes through the safe or vault door, -in the usual
manner, and serves to operate the series of tumblers or combination-wheels, 1.
"The sliding bar H is connected with the lock-bolt or bearing
in any suitable manner, its object being to impart motion to
said lock-bolt or bearing, to secure the objects above speciflied.
The said lock-bolt or bearing, it will be perceived, is located
in its casing, so as to rest closely in the rear of the tongie-piece
or connection secured upon the carrying-bar, and is isolated, so
to speak, from the tumblers or combination-wheels and the
other main working parts of the lock, and, therefore, any strain
which is brought to bear upon it by the heavy bolt:work will

SARGENT v. HALL SAFE AND LOOK COMPANY.

69

Opinion of the Court.
be expended upon the bolt or bearing and its axis or bearing,
and not upon the tumblers or combination-wheels.
"It will be seen that, to unlock the combination-lock, the
hook of. the dog, angle-bar, or-fence, J, will drop into the
nmtches or slots of the tumblers or combination-wheels, when
the notches are brought into juxtaposition by the operator who
has possession of the combination upon which the lock is set,
at which time thd bit, A, of the cam, 1, will also engage with
the hook, g, of the said dog, angle-bar, or fence, when, by
moving the dial-spindle, the lock-boltor bearing can be moved
or rotated so as to admit of the tongue-piece or connection,
with the carrying-bar and bolt-work, being moved back or
retracted, as in Fig. 3 of the drawing, and the safe or -vault
.door opened; but, when said combination-lock is locked, the
hook of the dog, angl6-bar, or fence, J, is elevated, due to the
combination-wheels being disarranged, as in Fig. 1 of the drawings, and then no action can be had upon the connecting-bar,
dog, angle-bar, or fence, or upon the lock-bolt or bearing, by
turning of the dial-spindle, and hence the tongue-piece or connection on the carrying-bar of the bolt-work rests upon, or
connects with, the lock-bolt or bearing, and the bolt-work is
securely retained in a locked condition.
"With such combination-lock, or one of substantially the
same construction and operation, constructed to be applied for
use upon a safe or vault door, to operate in connection with the
ponderous or great bolt-work thereon, is combined a time'mechanism, the woiks of which may beof any of the improved
or desired kinds, since its action is to measure time correctly,
the object being, that, during the interval that the combina'tiOn-lock is locked and the time-movement wound up, the
same, through a suitable connection made between it and said
combination-lock, will guard the said lock, and prevent its being unlocked, even by a cashier or other person in possession.
of the combination upon which the said combination-lock is set.
"In the present example, a duplex or double time-movement
is illustrdted, such being preferable to a single .time-movement,.as .a safeguard against stopping.
"Each of the time-movements, which are designated by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

letters 3f

, which may consist of a chronometer or clock

movement, is supplied with a pointer or hand, attached to a
spindle 1, in such a manner as to be capable of being moved
backward to set any elected number on the dials, IV,said dials
being spaced off, or marked with a scale of hours and divisions,
from one upward, to any desired number, according to the
mechanism of the chronometer or clock. With each of the
dials are combined adjusting disks or arms, 0, or some equivaleilt mechanical device, each of which carries a stud, or a pin
or projection, which acts upon a yoke or lever, which connects
with and guards the combination-lock the number of hours or
time for which it is designated said lock is to remain locked,
and thus controls the action of its lock-bolt or bearing while
the same is in a locked condition.
"The yoke lever or connection is designated by the letter I,
and it is pivoted or loosely fixed on its support or axis, as at in,
or otherwise arranged so as to operate in conjunction with the
moving or revolving disks or arms 0, the object being, that the
.yoke lever or connection and the disks can be adjusted with
respect to each other, so as to connect with the dog or fence
or other working part of the lock, and thus control the movement of the lock-bolt or bearing, and hence the locking and
unlocking of the combination-lock.
"One end of the extension of the yoke lever or connection, in
the present example., has a suitable hook, n, that engages with
a pin, o, on the dog, angle-bar, or fence, J, by striking under
it, in which case it holds said dog, angle-bar, or fence elevated
out of contact with the tumblers or combination-wheels and
the cam of the dial-spindle. The arms of said yoke lever or
connection connect with, or rest upon, the axis or spindle of the
adjusting disks or arms; and the arrangement of the studs,
pins or projections on said disks or arms is such, that, when
the indicators have reached the proper number on the dials, said

studs, pins or projections will have acted upon the yoke lever
or connection, and moved it sufficient to withdraw the camhook from beneath the pin o, and thus allow the dog, angle
bar, or fence to fall, ready to engage with the tumblers or
combination-wheels and the lock-bolt or bearing, at which time

SARGENT v. HALL SAFE AND LOCK COMPANY.

71

Opinion of the Court.

the combination-lock can be operated by the person in possession of the combination, as the time-movement -has ceased its
guarding or dogging action.
"Notches, y y, should be formed in the yoke lever or connection, to allow the studs, pins or projections to fall therein, when
the disks or arms and the indicators have reached the designated
number, thus serving as stops for the adjusting disks o! arms,
and prevent the same from moving on, beyond the prearranged
hour, to reset the yoke lever or connection upon the studs or
pro ections, for, if some such provision were not made, the
combination-lock could not be opened until the .disks or arms,
with the indicators, came around again to said 'previously appointed hour; at least, there might be dAnger of such occurring.
"The double time-pieces are employed, as hereinbefore stated,
so as to insure the releasing of the combination-lock in case one
of the tinie-works should stop or fail to come to proper position. A spring, q-, or an equivalent, such as a weight, should
be connected with the lower end of the yoke lever or connection, to produce the necessary reaction to bring thehook of the
yoke lever or connection under the pin on the dog, angle-bar,
or fence.
"Thus it will be seen, from the foregoing, that the bolt-work
of the safe or vault door connects with, or rests upoh, the bolt
or bearing of the combination-lock, and that the yoke lever or
connection of the time movement connects with the dog, anglebar, or fence of said combination-lock, rendering the said combination-lock inoperative when locked, that is to say, said yoke
lever or connection has' the effect of dogging or guarding the
combination-lock during the time it is locked, and -prevent its
being unlocked until the arrival of the hour previously designated by the time-movement; and, should pressure be exerted
upon the great or ponderous bolt-work of the door, when
locked, it will be received and arrested and retained by the lockbolt of the combination-lock, and will not be transmitted to
the tumblers or coimbination-wheels of the combination-lock, or
to the time-movement, or to the yoke lever or conhection.
"In lieu of the lever connecting with the dog or fence, it may

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

be made to connect or operate on the lock itself, and thus
secure the result hereinbefore recited.
"The time-mechanism may be in the same case containing the
works of the combination-lock; or it may be in an apartment
connected with the case of the combination-lock, or in a case
separate and distinct from the case containing the combinationlock.
"The advantages of this invention over common time-locks is,
that, when the time-mechanism ,releases the lock-mechanism,
that is, ceases its dogging -or guarding action, it does not admit
of the unlocking of the bolt-work of the door, but simply leaves
the combidation-lock in the condition that it can be unlocked
by the person in possession of the proper combination upon
which said lock is set, thus securing the advantages of a combination-lock for use during the day, with a time-mechanism
for guarding and protecting said lock during the night.
",This improvement is of the utmost importance, for, during
the hours when the time-mechanism is set, no one, not even the
officers of a bank or other institution, can open the combination-lock; and, when said time-mechanism is not set or adjusted, no one, except the holder of the combination upon which
the lock is set, can open it. No one who has the combination,
-whether obtained surreptitiously or otherwise, can open the
lock w en the time-movement is set, for the simple reason that
no connection can -bemale between the tumbler or combinationtioh--wheels, the dog, angle-bar, or fence, the spindle, and the
lock-bolt or bearing.
"Further Another feature of the utmost importance present
in the combination of parts brought together is, that the connection between the time-movement and the combination-lock
is such, that, when the time movement is set, the parts adjusted, and the safe doors closed, the combination-lock will be
rendered inoperative until a predeterminate hour, during which
interval of time the unlocking action of the combination-lock
will be suspefilded by the time-movement, while the.tumblers
or combination-wheels of the aforesaid combination-lock are left
free to rotate, if power is exerted upon the dial-spindle for the
purpose of twisting said spindle out of place, or impairing the

SARGENT v. HALL SAFE AND LOCK COMPANY. 73'
Opinion of the Court.

lock mechanism, a-Ad, l~y such, the working parts of the combination-lock cannot be injured or rendered useless for future
action.
"I have made a special, claim, in a separate application for
letters patent, for tlie combination of a time-movement and a
lock with a lever adapted to be connected with the dog of said
lock, to hold it from falling intb the slots or notches of .the
combination wheels except when released by the time-movement. So, therefore, in this application, such special construction and arrangement of parts is noi specially claimed.
"Having thus described my invention, what I claim and desire to secure by letters patent is:
"1. The combination, substantially as hlereinbefore set forth,
of a time-mechanism and a combination-lQck with the bolt-work
of a safe or vault door, the time-mechanism being constructed
to act in conjunction with, and rdeider inoperative, the combination-lock when locked, said lock having its bolt or bearing
constructed to receive the pressure of the series of bolts constituting the bolt-work of the door, when locked, and prevent
the unlocking of said bolt-work imtil the arrival of a certain
predeterminate hour.
"2. The, combination, substantially as hereinbefore set forth,
of a combination lock, and the series of bolts constituting the
bolt-work of a safe or vault door, with .a time-movement and a
yoke or lever connection, said lever being constructed and
located to render the bolt or bearing of the combination-lock
inoperative, when locked, the tumblers of the combinationlock'and its spindle being' free to rotate, vhile the bolt-work
is held in its locked position by the bolt or bearing of the coin-,
bination-lock."
An analysis of this specification, to ascertain, in view of the
state of the art and of the history of the application for the patent, as it passed through the Patent Office, what is the proper
construction of the rlaims allowed, will conduce to a solution
of the questions involved. The object of the invention is stated
to be to have a time-movement guard, and operate in conjunction with, a combination-lock, to prevent the action of the
combination-lock until a time previously appointed by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

setting of the time-movement shall have arrived, in the ordinary running of the time-movement, at which time, and not
before. the combination-lock will come into action, when
operated in the usual way, as if there were no time-movement.. In other words, by the setting of the time-movement,
the connection between the combination-lock and its lock-bolt
or bearing is interrupted, so'as to destroy the capacity of the
combination-lock to unlock the bolt-work, until the time fixed
by the setting of the time-movement shall, by the ordinary
running of the time-movement, have arrived, when the connection between the combination-look and its lock-bolt or bearing
is automatically restored, through the action of the timemechanism. The combination-lock is to remain with its organization unchanged, but the time-mechanism is to alternately
interrupt and restore its connection with its lock-bolt or bearing, and the attion of the bblt-work.
There are two parts. to the inyention, represented by the two
claims. Both of them are claims to combinations of mechanism. .The first claim is a claim to a combination, substantially
as set forth in the descriptive part of the specification, of three
elements-(1) a time-mechanism; (2) a combination-lock ; (3)
the bolt-work of a safe or vault door. But, as the claini says
that the time-mechanism is to be constructed to-act in conjunction with, and render inoperative, the combination-lock, when
looked, it follows that the expression " time-mechanism "'includes the means of connection between the time-movement
and the parts on which the combination-lock operates. Otherwise, there could be no operative co-action of the three' elements
named in the claim. The expressions "time-mechanism" and
".time-movement" are carefully used in the specification afid
claims, as having different meanings, the former including the
latter and its means of acting in conjunction with the combination-lock. There is a limitation ift the first claim, to the.
effect that the combination-lock is to have its bolt or bearing
constructed to receive the :pressure of the bolt-work, when the
lock is locked, and prevent the unlocking of the bolt-work till
the predetermined time shall have -arrived.
The second claim is a claim to a combination, substantially

SARGENT v. HALL SAFE AND LOCK COMPANY. 75
OpiniOn of the Court.

as set forth in the desdriptive part of the specification, of four
elements--(1) a'combination-lock; (2) the bolt-work of a safe
or vault door; (3) a time-movement; (4) a yoke or lever connection, constructed and located to render the bolt 'or bearing
of the combination-lock inoperative, when the lock is locked.
In the second claim, the time-mechanism of the first claim is
broken up into a time-movement and a yoke or lever connection. There is a limitation in the second claim, to the effect,
that the tumblers of the combination-lock and its spindle are
free to rotate during the time the bolt-work is held in -its locked
position by the bolt or bearing of the combination-lock. This
freedom of rotation is referred to in the specification as beingpeculiar and novel, and consisting in the fact, that, while the
combination-lock and the bolt-work are locked, the tumblers
or combination-wheels of the comlination-lock, and its spindle,
are free to rotate without exerting any unlocking action or
strain on the mechanism composing the combination-lock, or
the delicate mechanism composing the time-movement.
It is also to be noted, that the specification states, that the
lock-bolt or bearing of the combination-lock may be of a circular, segmental or other desired form, "provided said lock-bolt is
Arranged and adjusted so as to turn upon a suitable axis or
bearing," and is s6 constructed as, in'one position, to -prevent
the retraction of the bolt-work, and, in another position, to
permit it. The kind of combination-lock referred to is indicated by the one illustrated in" the drawings, and which the
specification states to be the one of Sargent's patent No. 57,574,
.granted August 28S, 1866, and reissued as No. 4,696; January
.2, 1872. No. 4,696 states that such combination-lock has no
sliding lock-bolt, but has combined with its working parts a
bolt turning -on a pivot or bearing, and so isolated or removed
-from contact with the combination-wheels, as to receive any
pressure applied through the bolt-work of the door, and cut off
the communication between such bolt-work and the wheels or
fence lever of the combination-lock; and that such bolt turning -ona pivot or bearirq. instead of the sliding bolt theretofore
in use, is an importan:feature. The first claim of No. 4,696
is in these words: "In a combination-lock for safe -or- vault

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

doors, a bolt I, which turns on a pivot or bearing, when said
bolt I is used in a lock having no ordinary sliding lock-bolt,
'and in connection with the separate bolt-work of the door, and
so arranged as to receive the pressure of the said bolt-work,
without transmitting it to the wheels or other equivalent works
of the lock."
The history of the application of Sargent for L.o. 186,369,
so far as it is important to the present case, is this: On June
11, 1873, having his reissued patent No. 4,696, for his combination-lock, in the form shown in the drawings of No. 186,369,
he made application for a patent for combining a time-movement with, the lock-works of a combination-lock. The drawing
showed the combination-lock of 'No. 4,696; and the specification set forth the invention to be so combining a time-movement with the lock-works as to prevent the lock from being
unlocked by the release of the time-movement, and to require
it to be unlocked by being set on the combination, after such
release. There was a time-movement, consisting of two clocks.
and a lover to hold up the'dog or angle-bar of the lock, until
released by the arrival of the predetermined hour. No boltwork was shown or described. There was no idea of patenting any combination of which the- bolt-work formed a part.
The specification had two claims: 1. "In a combination-lock,
I claim the combination with the lock-works and with a timemovement that controls the same, of a connection, H, or quivalent, so arranged that when the time-movement releases the
lock-works, the latter still remain locked, substantially as specified. 2d. I claim, in combination with a time-movement,
and a lock, the lever H, or equivalent, connected directly with
the dog C, to hold it elevated from the wheels, substantially
as specified." The specification stated that Sargent did not
"claim broadly the combination of a time-movement with a
a lock," that is, a time-movement or clock employed to prevent
the unlocking of a lock till the arrival of a predetermined time
in the running of the clock.
The first claim. of the application was rejected, June 12,
1873, by a reference tp patent ND. 121,782,'granted to S. W.
Hollen, December 12, 1871. Nothing was said as to the

SARGENT v. HALL SAFE AND LOCK COMPANY.

77

Opinion of the Court.
second claim. Sargent then disclaimed Hollen's arrangement,
as being the combination of "a clock-movement with an ordinary key-lock, by means of a lever, so that, when the clockwork releases the latch, the latch remains locked;" and altered
his claim so as to read thus: "1st. In a combination-lock, the
series of wheels of which are set in succession and operated by
a spindle, I claim the combinatibn with the lock-works, and
with a double-time movement that controls the same, of a connection, H, whereby, when the time-movement releases the
lock-works, the latter still remains locked, substantially as and
for the purpose specified. ' 2d. I claim, in combination with a
time-movement, and a lock, the lever H, or equivalent, arranged so as to be connected with the dod, substantially as described."
The first claim was again rejected, June 23, 1873, by a
reference to Newton's Journal of 1832 (Rutherford's patent
of 1831), as describing the applicdtion of a double time-movemovement "to any bolt of a lock, bar or other fastening," and
to the American patent of Holbrook, of 1858, as showing a
double time-movement. The letter of rejection, referring to the
Hollen patent, says, that Hollen "applies the movement to a
tumbler lock, which has to be operated by a key after the timemovement releases it. To double the time-movement in one
lock is considered to be one and the sa~ne thing with doubling
it in any other. To grant Eollen a patent for applying this
time-movement to a tumbler lock, and then to issue other
patents for using, it with other locks, is simply to nullify Hollen's patent. Sargent isentitled to a limited claim for his way
or adaptation, but -hothingmore." This last obseryation meant
that the second claim would be allowed, but not the first. The
point of this ruling was, that it was not a patentable invention
or combination to unite a time-movement with a combinationlock instead of with a tumbler-lock, each of *whichrequired to
be unlocked after its release, or to double. a clock in connection
with one lock after it hadbeen. doubledin connection with another;- but that theispecial arrang enent of, a lever connection
between the time movement and the dog mightle patepted.
Two new claims were then substituted by Sargent as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1S84.
Opinion of the Court.
"1. I claim, in combination with a combination-lock having a
spindle and combination-wheels, and with two or more separate
time-movemets, a single lever, or equivalent connection, H,
connecting ,the lock and the time-movements; the whole so
arranged that said lock is released either by a simultaneous action of the time-movements, or by one of them if the other
fails, and the lock still remains locked, when so released, as
specified. 2. I claim, in combination with a time-movement
and a lock, the lever H, or equivalent, connected with the dog
C, to hold it from falling into the slots or notches of the combination-wheels, except when released from' the clock-work, as
specified."
The first claim was again rejected, July 5, 1873, on the
ground that the change in it did not take the case out of the
references; and, on the 28th of July, 1873, Sargent appealed
to the board of three examiners-in-chief. The decision of the
board sustaining the- decision of the examiner was rendered
October 7, 1873. It refers to the English patent of Rutherford,
of 1831, and says: "The patent of Rutherford describes an
ordinary key-lock, to which the time-movement is so connected
that it may be set for a given hour, before which it cannot be
unlocked, but may be at any time thereafter. Rutherford
also foresaw that one time-movement might stop, and suggested two. Rutherford, as the references show, is not the
only one who has thought of thus connecting a time-movement
to a lock. It happens,.however, that the locks shown in the
references are all key-locks, while applicant's is a combinationlock, and it is upon this that the claim is founded. While it is
undoubtedly true that the combination-lock is the better, there
does not appear to be, in any true sense, any new combination
in, what applicant claims. It may be said that he has substituted, in the Rutherford* -ombination (for example), one wellknown element for another, and that the result, namely, the
security against unlocking before a given hour, is exactly the
same in both cases. And it must be remembered that this is
the whole end and scope of the combination claimed-not to
prevent breakage, or picking, or bursting with gunpowder, but
simply unlocking before the hour appointed. It is true, that

SARGENT v. HALL SAFE AND LOCK COMPANY.

79

Opinion of the Court.

the lock connected to the-time-movement in the manner shown
is rendered secure against unlocking by unauthorized persons
who pick up the combination, when the dog rests on the periphery of the cams; but it appears clear that this results from
the peculiar mode of application, and is covered by 'the second
claim. Whatever the advantage, then, arising from the substitution for the key-lock, so far as has been pointed out to us,
it results from the superiority of the former over the latter,
and not from the combination. Nor, so far as we see, has any
invention been exercised. The time-movement was originally
invented to prevent locks from being prematurely unlocked,
and, when once the combination had been invented, it is obvious that it was as applicable to one form of locks as to another;
and, to grant a patent for the union of the time-movement
with every old form of lock, or with every new form which:might appear, would manifestly place unjust restrictions on the
original invention and defeat the very purpose'of the law. We
understand only the first claim to be rejected."
These observations are true, as the record in this case shows,
and it also shows many patents in which, prior to 1873, one
clock or two clocks were employed to relieve, at a predetermined thne, the bolts of a door from a dog obstructing their
retraction, so that the door could be opened when that time
had arrived, but not before.

:Nothing more was done with this application till March 18,
1875, when Sar gent presented a new specification and claims, making prominent the feature of the free rotation of the tumblers
of the combination-lock through the medium of the lock-spindie,
during the suspension, by the time-movement, of the. unlocking
action of the combination-lock, and changing the claims to read
thus: "1. The combination of a time-movement with a combination-lock and a lever constructed and located to render inoperative such combination-lock until a predeterminate hour,
the tumblers of the combination-lock being free to rotate
through the medium of the lock-spindle; while the unlocking
action of the-combin tion-lock is suspended by the time-movement. 2. I claim, in combination with a time-movement and
a lock, the lever H, or equivalent, connected with the dog C

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
-Opinion of the Court.

to hold it from falling into the slots or notches of the combination-wheels, except when released by the clock-work, substantially as described." On the 24th of March, 1875, the first claim
was again rejected by references to the Hollen patent, of December, 1871, and the Rutherford patent, of 1831. The letter
of rejection said: "ilollen shows the combination of a timemovement and a lock, with a lever constructed and located
to render inoperative such look until a predeterminate hour,,
the tumblers of the lock being free to rotate through the
medium of a key, while the unlocking action of the lock is suspended by the lever. Rutherford shows (figures 1, 2, 3, 4, and
5, sheet 2) the combination of a time-movement and a look, with
a lever arranged to engage with the bolt of a lock and render
inoperative such lock until a predeterminate hour. To merely
substitute the ordinary combination lock, such as shown, for example, in the patent permutation-lock of James Sargent, August
28, 1866, for the lock shown in either of the above references,
is not regarded as a patentable difference. . . . The sec nd
claim is not objeted to. The first claim is again refused."
This application was not further prosecuted. On the 12th
of July, 1875, Sargent addressed a letter to the Patent Office,
entitled in the case, in which he said: "So many amendments
and actions having been made in the above-entitled case, I desire to withdraw and abandon it, for the purpose of filing a
new application. I, James Sargent, have this day filed said application for the invention, and request that the model of the
case above named be applied as a model in the application filed
to-day. I intend and request that this application be a substitute application for the one so withdrawn."
Up to this time no bolt-work had been slhown or described.
The object of the new application was to introduce bolt-work as
an element in the device. The drawings were the same as
those in No. 186,369, showing bolt-work, with the time movements and the combination-lock. Bolt-work was added to the
former model. Thp specification contained three claims, as
follows: "1. The combination, substantially as hereinbefore
set forth, of a time-mechanism and a combination-lock with the
bolt-work of a safe or vault door, the time-mechanism being

SARGENT v. HALL SAFE AND LOCK COMPANY.

81

Opinion of the Court.

constructed to act in conjunction with and-render inoperative
the combination-lock when locked, said lock having its bolt or
bearing arranged to rest upon and receive the pressure of the
bolt-work of the door when locked, and prevent the unlocking
of said bolt-work until the arrival of a certain preaeterminate"
time. 2. The combination substantially as hereinbefore set
forth, of a combination-lock and the bolt-work of a safe or vault
door, with a time-movement and a lever connectioni, said lever
being constructed and located to render the bolt or bearing of the
combination-lock inoperative when locked, the tumblers of the
combination-lock and its spindle being free to rotate while the
bolt-work of the door rests upon the bolt or bearing'of the combination-lock. 3. In combination with a time-movement and
a lock, a lever, or its equivalent, adapted to be connected
with the dog of said lock, to hold it from falling into the slots or
notches of the combination-wheels, except when released by the
time-movement, substantially as described."
On the 31st of July, 1875, claims 1 and 2 were rejected by
references to the patent of Hollen, of December, 1871, and that
of Rutherford, of 1831 ; and a time-lock arranged in connection
with the bolt-work of a door, in the time-lock of Little, patented
in Jantiary, 1874, was referred to. Those claims were again
rejected, September 6, 1875, in a letter which said: "The employment of locks of various kinds for securing the bolt-work
of a door is too common and well-known to require further
references. Either Hollen's or Rutherford's lock can be applied to the bolt-work of a door without the least change being made
to adapt it thereto. The mere substitution of one well-known
kind of locks for another kind equally well-known, has been
decided again and again as not a patentable difference,
On December 3, 1875, an interference was declared between,
claims I and 2 and four other applications; and between clain
3 an&'four other applications. On February 12, 1876, the interference as to claims 1 and 2 was dissolved, and. they were.
again rejected. A further amendment of the specification was
made February 15, 1876, and claims I and 2 were altered, so,
as to read as folloivs': "1. The combination, substantially as
hereinbefore set forth, of a time-mechanism and a combinationVOL. CMV-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

lock with the bolt-work of a safe or .vault door, the timemechanism being. constructed to act in conjunction with and

render inoperative the combination-lock when locked, said lock
having its bolt or bearing constructed to receive the pressure
of the series of bolts constituting the bolt-work of the door

when locked, and preventing the unlocking of said bolt-wo-tk
until the arrival of a certain predeterminate time. 2. The
combination, substantially as hereinbefore set forth, of a combination-lock and the series of bolts constituting the bolt-work
of a safe or vault door, with a time-movement and a lever connection, said lever being constructed and located to render the
bolt or bearing of .the combination-lock inoperative when
locked, the tumblers of the combination-lock and its spindle
being free to rotate while the bolt-work is held in its locked
position by the bolt or bearing of the combination-lock." The
claims were not allowed, but a new interference as to them
was declared, March 8, 1876, with the same four applications,
the subject matter being, "The combination of a time-mechanism, and a combination-lock, with the bolt-work of a door."
On the 11th of January, 1877, the application was amended
by withdrawing claims 1 and 2. Two days before this, and on
January 9, 1877, Sargent had filed the application on which
No. 186,369 was granted. The special construction and arrangement of parts, a claim for which, as the specification of
that patent state&,. was made in a separate application, was
covered by the claim of patent No. 198,157, granted to Sargent,
December 11, 1877, in pursuance of the application of July 12,
1875, that claim being as follows: "In combination with a
time-movement and a lock, a yoke-lever or equivalent, adapted
to be connected with the dog, fence or angle-bar of said lock,
to hold it from falling into the slots or notches of the combination-wheels, except when released by the time-movement, substantially as described." The present suit does not involve any
infringement of No. 198,137.
As before remarked, the specification of No. 186,369, the
patent here sued on, contains the following statement: "The
lock-bolt or bearing of the combination-lock-may be of a circular, segmental, or other desired form, pr'vicI.said lock-bolt is

SARGENT v. HALL SAFE AND LOCK COMPANY.

83

Opinion of'the Court.
arranged and. adjusted so as to turn -upon a suitable axis or
bearing, and is so constructed, thai, in one position, it will pre-'
vent the retraction of the bolt-work, so as to retain the safe or
vault door locked, while, in another position, it will admite6f"
the bolt-work being retracted, for the purpose of allowing the'
safe or vault door to be opened." 'This clause had not appeared in any of the specifications from and including that
filed June 11, 1873, until it was inserted in the one filed Jaiiuary 9, 1877, on which the patent No. 186,369 was granted. It
is a limitation without which it must be assumed, in views 'of
the numerous prior rejections, th- claims allowed would not
have been granted. The same clause was inserted,' May 7,
1877, in the specification of the application "ofJuly 12, 1875,
as it remained after claims 1 and 2 therein were withdrawn
January 11, 1877, and that clause appears in the specification
of No' 198,157, as issued December 11, 1877.
The defendants' lock, which it is alleged infringes the two
claims of -No. 186,369, is of the construction shown. by the following drawing, made by the plaintiff's witness Millward:

In that drawing A is the case of the lock; B, the bolt; C,
the dog, pivoted in the bolt at c, and engaging, when held up

OCTOBER ..TERM, 1884.
-Opinion of the Court.

by the time.mechanism, behind a fixed stump, D; E, the arbor
of the lock, the hook, e, of which engages with the hook,f, of
the dog, and throws the bolt B back, when the dog is released
by the time-mechanism. The same hook, e, by running on the
surface g, throws the bolt B out, to lock the door. F is the
time-attachment, which has a lever, G, the arm of which, extending through the case of the lock, has the hook Hat its
lower end, which holds up the pivoted arm _, and through it
the dog C.
Another form of the bolt-wok of the defendant's lock is
shown by the following drawing:

me Attac7=.t. F.

dtmzbiaatoL

lock.

b&

,

CD)

_D
.. illwa,-d.

It is contended for the defendants, that eachof the combinations covered by the two claims of No. 186,369 must be limited
to the particular devices described in the specification and
shown in the drawings, and to their mode of operation, both
claims being limited by the words "substantially as bereinbefore set forth;" and that, under this construction, the defendants do not infringe.
The second claim imposes on the -combination claimed in it
the limitation, that the tumblers of the combination-lock and

SARGENT v. HALL SAFE AND LOCK- COMPANM.

85

Opinion of the Court..
its spindle shall be free to rotate, while the bolt-work is held
in its looked position by the bolt :or bearing of the combination-lock. This is enforced by the language of the specification, which,'in stating -in what the invention consists, states
that "the peculiarity and novelty" of the union or combination, consisting of a combination-lock, a time-movement, and a
yoke or lever coniiecti6n, is, that "when the said combinationlock, with its, tihe-mechanism, is arranged up6n a safe or vhtit
door, to operate in conjunction with the bolt-work thereon, and
all locked, the tumblers or combination-wheels of said lock, and'
the spindle of the same, together with its usu'al, indicator, are
all left free to be moved or rotated without, exerting any unlocking actioii or strain whatever upon, the mechanism coin-.
posing the combination-lock, or the delicate mechanisni composing the time-movement." Again, the specification says.
"Another feature of the utmost importance present in the
combination of parts brought together is, that the connection
between the time-movement and the combiiiation-lock is such
that, when the time-movement is set, the parts adjusted, and
the safe doors closed, the combination-lock will be rendered
inoperative until a predeterminate hour, during -which interval
of time the unlocking action of the combinatidn-lock 'will be suspended.-by the time-movement, while the tumblers.or combination-wheels of the aforesaid combination-lock are left free to
rotate, if power is exerted upon the dial-spindle for the purpose
of twisting said spindle out of place, or impairing the lock mechanism, and, by such, the working parts of the combinationlock cannot be injured or'rendered useless- for future action."
This' feature, thus declared to be peculiar and novel, of the free
rotation of the tumblers, is not shown to exist.in, the defendants' lock. The plaintiff's expert, Mr. E. S. Renwiol , testifies
that this peculiarity is not found in the defendants' lock, and'
that, for that reason, that lock does not embody the combina-"
tion of claim 2 of No. 186,369.
As to claini 1, it is limited, by the language of the specification, td a combination-lock having a bolt or bearing which
turns, on an axis or revolves. The defendants' lock~ has a sliding-bolt. It wag not new, at the time of Sargent's invention,.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

to apply a time-movement to dog the sliding-bolt of a lock;
and, it is plain that he limited himself to a rotating bolt. The
specification makes it as necessary that the combination-lock
should have a turning or revolving bolt or bearing as that such
bolt or bearing should have the quality of receiving the pressure of the bolt-work, when locked. This turning or revolving
feature of the bolt or bearing is made, by the specification, as
necessary to the combination-lock of claim 2 as to that of
claim 1.
In patents for combinations of mechanism, limitations and
provisos, imposed by the inventor, especially such as were introduced into an application after it had been persistently rejected, must be strictly construed, against the inventor, and in
favor of the public, and looked upon as in the nature of disclaimers. As was said in Fay v. Cordesman, 109 U. S. 408,
420, "The claims of the patents sued on in this case are claims
for combinations. In such a claim, if the patentee specifies
any element as entering into the combination, either directly by
the language of the claim, or by such a reference to the descriptive part of the specification as carries such element into
the claim, he makes such element material to the combination,
and the court cannot declare it to be immaterial. It is his
province to make his own claim, and his privilege to restrict it.
If it be a claim to a combination, and be restricted to specified
elements, all must be regarded as material, leaving open only
the question whether an omitted part is supplied by an equivalent device or instrumentality. Water .Meteyr Co. v. .Deeper,
101 U. S. 332; Gage v. Herring,107 U. S. 640."
These considerations lead to the conclusion that the decree
of the Circuit Court was correct and must be
Afflrmed.

