OCTOBER TERM1, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

side as between themselves. In the present case the only controversy is as to the right of the plaintiff to recover against the
defendants.
The order to remand is
.Afb:med.

ST. LOUIS & SAN FRANCISCO RAILWAY COMPANY
& Others v. WILSON.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Submitted March 2, 1885.-Decided March 23, 18S5.

In a suit to compel a corporation to transfer to the plaintiff stock standing on
its books in the name of a third person, the corporation and the third person are both necessary parties.
Separate issues, under separate defences, to an action pending in a State court,
do not necessarily make separable controversies, which may be removed to
the CircuiV Court of the United States.

This was an appeal from an order of the Circuit Court of the
TTnited States refhanding a suit to the Circuit Court of the City
of St. Louis, Missouri,, from which it had been removed upon a
petition filed under the act of March 3, 1875, ch. 137, 18 Stat.
470., The suit was in equity and brought by William C. Wilson, the appellee, a citizen of Missouri, against the St. Louis
and San Francisco Railway Company, a Missouri corporation,
and Jesse Seligman, and James Seligman, citizens of New
York, to compel the company to transfer to Wilson on its books
certain shares of its capital stock standing in the name of
the Seligmans, and to issue to him certificates therefor. The
petition stated that Wilson purchased the stock at a sale under
an execution issued upon a judgment in his favor and against
the Seligmans, and that on the 19th of December, 1883, he
exhibited to the company his certificate of purchase, and demanded that the company cause his name "to oe entered on
the stock books of said corporation as the owner of said shares

ST. LOUIS, &c., .RAILWAY CO. v. WILSON.
Statement of Facts.

of said capital, stock,

. .
and further duly notified said
corporation to pay to him all dividends that might thereafter
be declared and payable to and on said stock;" but that the
company refused to do so. The prayer was for a transfer of
the stock, the cancellation of the certificates to the Seligmans,
the issue of new certificates and payment of dividends to Wilson,
and an injunction prohibiting the Seligmans from acting as
stockholders.
The company and the Seligmans filed separate answers, but
setting up substantially the same defence, to wit, that the stock,
though standing in the name of the Seligmans, did not in fact
belong to them when the execution was levied, or when the
sale to Wilson was made, because they had long before that
time sold and transferred their certificates to other parties for
value, who"were the real holders and owners of the stock,
though not transferred to them on the books. The Seligmans
in their answer denied the validity of the judgment 'against
them for the reason that it was rendered in a suit to which they
were not parties.
The petition for removal was presented by the Seligmans
alone, and, after stating the citizenship of the parties, proceeded
as follows: "That there is in said suit a controversy wholly
between citizens of different States, which can be fully determined as between them without the presence of the defendant,
the St. Louis and San Francisco Railroad. That there is in
said suit a separate- controversy wholly between said plaintiff
and your petitioners, citizens of different States as aforesaid,
which can be fully determined as between them, and your petitioners are actually interested in such controversy. That the
controversy in said suit between plaintiff and your petitioners,
as made by the pleadings, is whollydistinct and separate from
that between the plaintiff and the St. Louis and San Francisco
Railway Company."
Upon this petition the State court removed the suit but the
Circuit Court of the United States remanded it. To reverse
this order of the United States Court, the appeal was-taken.

Xr.James 0. Broadkedd for Seligmans, appellants.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

Xr. James S. Boto!fod for appellee.
MR. CIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.

After reciting the facts as above stated, he continued:
There is but one controversy in this case, and that is as to the
duty of the railroad company to transfer to Wilson the stock
standing in the name of the Seligmans on its books and to issue
new certificates therefor. Upon the one side of that controversy is the plaintiff, a citizen of Missouri, and on the other the
railroad company, a Missouri corporation. The sole purpose of
the suit is to establish the duty and enforce its performance.
This cannot be done without the presence of the company, for
it is upon the company itself that the decree must operate. The
Seligmans are made parties only in aid of the principal relief
which is asked. As the stock stands in their names on the
books, the company may well claim a judicial finding in the
cause which shall bind them, if upon the final hearing a transfer is ordered. The suit, therefore, is in truth anhd in form
against both the company and the Seligmans on a single caise
of action, and cannot be removed unless the separate answer of
the Seligmans introduces a separate controversy. This we have
held in louisville &
a.shville .ailroad Co. v. Ide, just decided, is not necessarily the effect of separate issues under separate defences to the same actipn. No*relief whatever can be
granted unless it is found to be the duty of the company to
transfer -the stock, and as to that controversy the company is
an indispensable party. Central Railroad Company of -NYew
Jersey v. flls, 113 U. S., 249; Thayer v. Life Association,
112 U. S. 717.
Afflrmed.
The order remanding tl~e cause is

