UNITED STATES v. MINOR.
Syllabus.

The ground of 'this contention is, that as it was admitted in the
pleadings that McMillan was indebted to the bank at the time
of his deat1h more than the value of his stock, and as the stock
was in the- possession of the bank, indorsed by McMillan in
blank, the law would make the application of its value to the
payment of the indebtedness.
The aLssignment of error is based on § 5328 of the Revised
Statutes of Ohio, of 1880, which provides that "when upon the
statements in the pleadings one party is entitled by law to
judgment in his favor, judgment shall be so rendered by the
court, though a verdict has been found against such'party."
No motion for juldgment, notwithstanding the verdict, appears to have been made in the Circuit Court. If this court
could now consider this assignment of error, we think it does
not furnish a ground for the reversal of the judgment.
It was settled by the verdict of that jury that the plaintiff
in error did not hold the stock of. McMillan as security for his
indebtedness. The contention of the plaintiff in error, therefore, comes to -this, that a creditor, who has possession of the
property of his debtor, as his agent or trustee, or bailee, may,
without reducing his debt to judgment, and without.the process or order of any court, and without the consent and against
the will of the debtor, sell or otherwise dispose of the property
and apply its proceeds to the payment- of his debt. We do not
thiik the law gives a creditor any such right.
ATdgment -Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. MIOR.
.APPEAL FROM TH

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TE
DISTRICT OF, CALIFORNIA.

Submitted:Janury 26, 188.-Decided March 80, -188.

The. United States has the same remedy in a court of equity to set aside or annul a patent for land. on the ground of fraud in procuring its issue, which.

an individual would have in regard to his own deed procured under similar
circumstances.'

OCTOBER TERMI, 18S4.
Statement of Facts.
The doctrine of the conclfisiveness of judgments and decrees of courts, as between those who are parties to the'litigation, is not applicable to the United
States, in regard to the proceedings before the land officers in granting
patents for the public land.
Though it has been said very truly in some cases that the officers of the Land
Department exercise functions in their nature judicial, this has reference
to cases in which individuals have, as between each other, contested the
right to a patent before those officers, whose decision as to the facts before
them is held to be conclusive between those parties.
But fraud or imposition on those officers, or a radical mistake by them of the
law governing the disposition of the public lands, has always been held to
be subject to remedy-in a court of equity; and where there has been no
contest, and the claimant produces without opposition his exparte proofs
of performance of the hecessary conditions; it is especially needful that
equity shbuld give the government a remedy if those proofs are founded in
fraud and perjury.

This' was an appeal from a decree of. the Circuit Court for
the District of California, dismissing the bill of the United
States on demurrer.
The object of the bill was to set aside'and annul a patent
issued by the United States to Minor, on January 5, 1876, for
the northwest quarter of Section 18, Township 6, North Range
2, East of the Humboldt Meridian. The bill as originally filed
made in substance the following allegations:
That said Minor, on the 23d day of October, 18T4; filed the
declaratory, statement in the land office necessary to give him
a righ't of pre-emption to the land, alleging that he had made
a settlement on it March 20th of that year; and on June 20,
1875, he made the usual affidavit that he had so settled on the
land in March of the previous year, that he had improved it,
built a house on it, and continued to reside on it from the time
of said settlement, and had cultivated about one acre of it. He
also made affidavit, as the law required, that he had not so
settled upon and improved the land with any agreement or.
contract with any person by which the 'title he might acquire
would enure to the-benefit of the latter. He also made oath
that he was not the owner of 320 acres of land in any State or
Territory in the United States. These affidavits being received
by the register and receiver as true, he paid the money necessary to perfect his right, received of them the usual certificate,

UNITED STATIS v. NINOR.
Statement of Facts.

called a patent certificate, on which there was issued to him at
the General Land Office in due time the patent which is now
assailed.
The bill then charged that all these statements, made under
oath before the land officers, were false and fraudulent.. That
defendant had never made the settlement, nor cultivation, nor
improvements mentioned; that he had never resided on the
land, but during all the time had lived.and had his home in a
village about twelve miles distant;- and that he had not made
these proofs of settlement to appropriate the land to his own
use, but with intent to sell the same to some pers6n unknown
to the plaintiff.
It was also chaxged that defendant produced, in dorroboration of his own statement, the affidavit of a witness, one Joseph
Ohuitt, who testified, to the settlement, improvement and residence of defendant, all of which was false and fraudulent. It
was- then alleged that by these false affidavits the land officers,
supposing them to be true, were deceived and misled into allowing said pre-emption claim and issuing said patent, to the great
injury of the United States.
A demurrer to this bill having been sustained, plaintiff was
allowed to file an amendment, by which it was 'set out. that
one Richard Spence entered upon the west half of the quarter-,
section in question on the first day of April, 1872, with the intention of pre-empting the same as soon -as the lands were surveyed and open to pre-emption, -and that on the 22d day of
October, 1874, the approved.plat of said surveys was duly fied
in the land office at Humboldt, and on the 3d day of Delember thereafter Spence made his declartory statement for the,
west half of that quarter-section and the west half of the southwest quarter of the same section. It was further alleged that
Spence, having complied with the terms authorizing his preemltion by actual residence, improvement and cultivation, and
having commuted hispre-emption-right for a liomestead right,
and pefected his cultivation and improvement by a five yearsl
residence, and paid the fees of the officers, made application on
the 5th day of April, 1880, for his patent, to which he was
legally entitled, but it was found that Minor's patent covered

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

half his claim, to wit, the west half of the northwest quarter
of the section.
The title having passed from the United States to Minor for
the entire quarter section, no patent could be issued to Spence,
who was equitably entitled to a part of it.
To this bill, as amended, the Circuit Court again sustained a
demurrer and dismissed it, and from that decree this appeal
was taken.
The circuit and district judges certified a division of opinion
on eight propositions of law, which they believed to arise out
of this demurrer, as follows:
I. Whet1her the frauds and perjury alleged in the bill as the
equitable grounds for vacating the patent fn question are frauds
extrinsic and collateral to the matter tried and determined in
the land office upon which the patent issued, and constitute
such frauds a entitle the complainant to relief in a court of
equity?
-II. Whether perjury and false testimony in a proceeding
before the land office, such as alleged in the said amended bill,
by means of which a patent to a portion of the public land is
fraudulently and wrongfully secured, is such a fraud as will
require a court of equity to vacate the patent on that ground
alone?
. III. Whether the decision and determination of the questions involved on false anc perjured testimony, as set forth in
the said amended bill, and the issue of a patent thereon, arb
not conclusive as against the United States on a bill filed to
vacate the patent so issubd?
IV. When the United States fles a bill to vacate a patent,
on the ground that it was fraudulently obtained upon false
testimony, as alleged in saia amended bill, whether it is necessary to offer in the bill to, return the purchase money paid for
the land by the patentee?
V. Whether"a court of equity will enforce the penalties and
forfeitures imposed by § 2262 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, for obtaining a patent to land upon false affidavits?
VI. Whether the remedy at law provided by said section

UNITED STATES v. MINOR.
Argument for Appellee.

and an indictment for perjury are not the only remedies for the
wrong alleged in the amended bill?
VII. The bill of complaint having been originally filed in
this case on June 19, 1883, more than seven years and five
months after the issue of the patent, whether the claim to
vacate the patent on the ground of fraud is stale, and whether
the bill ought to be dismissed on that ground?
VIIL Whether the demurrer to the said amended bill should
be sustained?
-Mr. Sotieitor-GeneraZfor appellant.
-r.Z. D. Latimer for appellee.-I. The first three questions can be considered .together. The decision of the officers
of,the Land Department was a judicial decision, upon the testimony before them, and- is conclusive between the parties.
"Var-ren v. F-an Brunt, 19 Wall. 646, 652; Shepley v. Cowan,
91 U. S. 330; Xarquez v. Frisbie,101 U. S. 473, 476; Moore
v. Robbins, 96 U. S. 530, 533; Quinby v. Conlan, 104 U. S. 420,
425; Vance v. Burbank, 101 U.. S. 514, 519. The particular acts
of fraud charged in the bill are not such as will authorize a court
of equity to set aside or'disturb the judgment and decision of
the land officers in holding that the defendant pre-emptor had
'proven himself to lie entitled to the land, and. awarding and
issuing to him a patent therefor. Smelting Co. v. Kemp, 104
U. S. 636, 640; United States v. TrocT morton, 98 U: S. 61, 66;
V'ane v. Burbank, 101 U. S. 514,- 519. In the Cases in which
actions have been maintainedto set aside patents, it was clear
that the land officers hd no Jnrisdiction, and upon that ground
only the actions were sustained.-IL As to the fourth question
it seems too plain for. argument that. no one can have rescission
without placing the other party in 8tatu.Juo.-IIl.-As to the
fifth and sixth qn6stions, courts of equity have no jurisdiction
of matters'of forfeiture unless specially conferred by statute.
Stevens v. Cad/y, 2 Curtis, 200; § 2262 Rev. Stat. does not'bonfer it.-IV. .As to the seventh question, we say the bill comes
too late; and ihe claim is stale. Badge v. Badger, 7 Wall.
-87, 94; Stars v. Pae,b How. 819.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. JuSTIcE MiLLER delivered the opiion of the court. After stating the facts in the foregoing language, he continued:
As regards the last of these questions, it does not present
any such well-defined point of law as can be certified to this
court for an answer. It merely presents the whole case without showing 'a distinct point in regard to which the judges
were opposed in opinion. United States v. I'addell, 112 U. S.
76. But, as it must bb answered by the action of the court in
affirming or reversing the decree, this is imnaterial.
With regard to the fourth, fifth and sixth questions, we have
no difficulty in holding that neither the provisions of § 2262
Rev. Stat., nor the liability to indictment, nor the actual indictment and conviction of the defrauding party for perjury
in such case as this, in any manner supersedes or debars the
United States of the remedy by bill in chancery to vacate the
patent obtained by such fraudulent practices. On the contrary,
the provision of the section above mentioned, that the person
who makes the false oath in the premises shall forfeit any
money he may have paid for the land, answers in the negative
the fourth question, namely, is the United States bound to offer
in the bill, in a case like this, to return the purchase-money?
The statute declares it is forfeited, and, though the. party
may lose the land, he also loses his money as a penalty of his
perjury.
The spventhi quesuion, with regard to laches in bringing the
suit, we' answer by saying, that in the present case there is no
such laches shown as will justify the court in dismissing the
btll. Wai .ir;for the present the general proposition that time
does not ru 'against the government, from the effect of which
we see no escape in the short period of seven years and a half,
it is pretty clear, on the face of the bill, that the first discovery of the fraud- was made when Spence, on applying for
his patent under the homestead law, made it known'that he
had been residing on, improving, and cultivating a part of the
land included in Minofs patent during the time Minor swore
he was doing the same thing. Of course, lapse if time, as a
defence to a suit for relief for these frauds did not begin to run
until the fraud was discovered.

UNITED -STATES v,_ MINOR.

. 2.39

Opinion of the Court,

The first thred questions may be considered together. - If an
individual or a corporation had been induced to part with the
title to land, or any other property, by such a fraud as that set out in this bill, there would seem, to be no difficulty in recQvering it back by appropriate judicial proceedings. If it .was a
sale and conveyance of land induced by fraudulent misrepre-,
sentation of facts which had no existence, on which the grantor
relied, and had a right to rely, and which were essential elements
of the consideration, there would be no hesitation in a court of
equity givingrelief; anl where the title remained in the, possession of the fraudulent grantee, the court would surely annul
the whole transaction, and require a reconveyance of the land
to the grantor. The'case presented to us by the bill is hueof
unmitigated fraud and iinposition, consummated by means of
representations on which .alone the sale was. made, every one
of which was false. The. law and the rules governing these
pre-emption sales required in every instance the settlement and
residence for a given time on the land, theoactual cultivation of
a part of it. and building a house on it. It required that the
claimant should do this with a purpase of acquiring real owner-:
ship for,himself and not for another, nior with a purpose to sell
to another.
In the case as presented by, this bill none of these things
were done, though the land officers were made to believe they
were done by the false representations of the defendant. It
was a case where all the requireinents of the law were set at
nought, evaded and defied by one stupendous falsehood, which
included all the requirements on which. the right to secure the
land rested. There can be no question of the fraud and its misleading effects oni the officers 'of the government, and, in atransaction between individuals, it makes a clear case for relief.Is there anything ,in the circumstance that these niisrepresentations were supported by perjury, that the defendant
made oath to his falsehoods -and procured, a false affidavit
of a witness to corroborate hitnself, 'which should deprive
the injured party of relief It would -seem rather to add to
the force of the reasons for such relief ,that fraud and falsehood
were re-enforced by perjury.
'

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

Is there any reason to be found in the relation of the government to such a case as this which will deprive it of the same
right to relief as an individual would have ? On the contrary.
there are reasons why the government in this class of cases
should not be held to the same diligence in guarding against
fraud as a private owner of real estate. The government owns
millions and millions of acres of land, which are by law open
to. pre-emption, homestead, and public and private sale. The
right and the title to these lands are to be obtained from the government only in accordance with. fixed rulea vof laWv. For the
more convenient management of the sale of these lands, and
the establishment by individuals of the inchoate rights of preemption and homestead, and their final perfection in the issuing
of a title, called a patent, there is established in each land district an office in which are two officers, and no more, called
register -and receiver. These districts often include twenty
thousand square miles or more, in all parts of which the lands
of the government subject to saie, pre-emption and homestead
are found. These officers do not, they cannot, visit these lands.
They have maps showing the location of the gqvernmeit lands
and their subdivision into townships, secions and parts of sections, and, when a person desires to initiate a claim to any of
them, he goes before them and makes the necessary statements, affldaVits, and claims, of all wtlich they make memoranda and copies, which are forwarded to the General Land
Office at Washington.
For the truth of these statements they are compelled to rely
on the oaths of the parties asserting claims, and such ex prte
affidavits as they may produce.
In nine, cases out of ten, perhaps in a much larger percentage, the proceedings are wholly ex parte. In the absence of
any contesting claimant for a right to purchase or secure the
land, the party applying has it all his own way. He makes
his own statement, sworn to before those officers, and he produces affidavits. If these affidavits meet the requirements of
the law,,the claimant succeeds, and what is required is so well
know i that it is reduced to a formula. It is not possible for
the officers of the govermnent, except in a few rare instances,

UNITED STATES v. MINOR..
Opinion of the Cout.

io know anything of the truth or falsehood of these statements.
In the cases where there is no contesting claimant there is no
adversary proceeding whatever. •The.United States is passive;
it opposes no resistance to the establishment of the. claim, and
.makes no issue on the statement of the.claimant.
When, therefore, he succeeds.by misrepresentation, by fraudulent practices, aided by.perjufy5 there Nould seem to be more
reason why the United States, as the owner of land of which
it has been, defrauded by tiese means,, should have remedy
against that fraud--all the remedy which the courts can give.
-than in the case of a private owner of a few acres of land on
whom a like fraud has been practised.
In a suit brought by the United States against :Moffat to set
aside a patent for land on the ground 6f fraul in procuring its
issue, this court said: "It may be admitted, as stated by-counsel, that if, upon any state of facts, the patent~might have been
lawfully issued, the court will presume, as agailnst collatdral
attack, that the facts existed; but that. presumption has no
place in a suit by the United States directly assailing the patent
and seeking its cancellation for fraud in the conduct of -those
officers." Yoffat v. United Statq,, 112 U. S. 24,.
.The principle is equally applicable when those officers, though
wholly innocent, were imposed upon and aeceiied by the fraud
and false swearing of the party to whom the patent was issued.
'The learned judge whose opinibn prevailed in: tlie Circuit
Court and is found in the.record, has been. misled by confounding the present case with that of United qtates v. [T]hrocmorto, 98 U. S. 61, and l-ance v. Burank,'101 U. S. 514, and
thus applying principles to this case which do not bel6ng to if.
In Throckmorton' case, it is true, a part of the relief sought
was to set aside a patent for land issued by the United States.
But the patent was issued on the confirmation of a Mexican
grant after proceedings prescribed by the act of Congress on
that subject. These proceedings were judicial. They were commenced before a board of commissioners. There were pleadings and partieg, and the claimant was plaintiff, and the United
States was defendant. Both parties were represented by
counsel, the United States having in all such cases her regular..
Vot. cXv-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Cour.

District Attorney to represent her. Witnesses were examined
in the usual way,,by depositions, subject to cross-examinations,
and not by expare affidavits. From this tribunal there was
a right of appeal to the District Court, and from that court to
the Supreme .Court of the United States by. either party.
There was nothing wanting to make such a proceeding, in the
highest sense, a judicial one, and to give to its final judgment
or decree all the respect, the verity, the conclusiveness, which
belong to such a final decree between the parties. The patent
could only issue on this final decree of confirmation of the
Spanish or Mexican grant, and was, in effect, but the execution of that decree.
It was to such a case as this that the ruling, in Throckmorton's case was applied. The court said in that case, which was
a bill to set aside the decree of confirniiation: "The genuineness and validity of the concession from Michelterona, produced by complainant, was the single question pending before
the board of commissioners and the District Court for four
years. It was the thing, and the only thing, that was controverted, and it was essential to the decree. To overrule the
deniurrer to this bill would be to retry, twenty years after the
decision of those tribunals, the very matter which they tried,
on the ground of fraud in the document on which the decree
was made. If we can do this now, some other court may be
called on twenty years hence to retry the same matter on
another allegation of fraudulent combination in this suit to
defeat the ends of justice; and so the number of suits would
be without limit and litigation endless. about the single question of the validity of this document."
It needs no other remarks than those we have already made,
as to the nature of the proceeding before the land officers, to
show how inappropriate this language is to such a proceeding.
'Here no one question was in issue. No issue at all was taken.
No adversary proceeding was had. No contest was made. The
officers, acting on such evidence as the claimant presented, were
bound by it and by the law to issue a patent. They had no
means of controverting its truth, and the government had no'
attorney to inquire into it. Surely the doctrine applicable to

UNITED STATES v. MINOR.

249

Opinion of the Court.

the conclusive character of the solemn judgments of courts,with full jurisdiction over the parties, and the subject matter,
made after appearance, pleadings and contests by parties on'
both sides, cannot be properly applied to the proceedings in
the land office in such cases.
So, alsg, as regards the case of l'ance.v. Burbank, 101 M. S.
514, the language of the court in regard to the conclusiveness
of the decision of the land office must be considered with refer-ence to the case before it. That was not a case by the grantor
the United States, to set aside the patent, but by a party, or the
heirs of *aparty, who had confested'the right of the grantee
* before all the officers of the Land Department up to the Seeretary of the Interior, and been defeated, and where the whole
question depended on disputed facts, the evidence of which was
submitted by the contestants to those officers. In such a case,
where there was full hearing, rehearing, and issues made sand
tried, thd observation of the court, "that the decision of-the
proper officers of the department is in the -natureof' a judicial
determination of the matter in dispute," is well founded.
It -has been often said by this court that the land officers are
a special tribunal of a quasi judicial character, and their decis-.
ion on: the facts before them is conclusive. And we are not
now controverting the principle that where a coniest between
individuals, for the right to a patent for public lands, has
been brought before these office'rs 'and both Parties have been
represented and had a fair hearing, that those _partiesare concluded as to all the facts thus in issue by the decision of the
officers.
. But in proceedings like thg present, wholly ex ar.te, no contest, no adversary proceedings, no reason to suspect fraud, but
where the patent is the result of nothing but fraud and -perjury,
it is enough to hold. that it conveys tl~e legal title, and it would
be going quite too far to say that it cannot be assailed by a
proceeding in equity and set aside as void, if the fraud is proved
and there are no innocent holders for value. -We -have steadily
held that, though in the absence of fraud the facts were concluded by the action of the Land Department, a misconstruction
of the law, by which alone the successful party obtained a

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus,

patent, might be corrected in equity, much more. when there
was fraud and imposition.
If, by the case as made by the bill, Spence's claim bad
covered all the land patented to Minor, it would present the
question, whether the United States could brihg this suit for
Spence's benefit. The government, in that case, would certainly have nointerest in the land when recovered, as it must
go to Spence without any further compensation. And it may
become a grave question, in some future case of this character,
how far the officers of the government can be permitted, when
it has no interest in the property or in the subject of the litigation, to use its name to set aside its own patent, for which it
has received full compensation, for the benefit of a rival claimant. The question, however, does not arise here, for half the
land covered by the patent would revert to .the United States
if it was vacated, and, as between the United States and Minor
it was one transaction evidenced by one muniment of title, the
question does not arise; certainly not on demurrer to this bill.
The result of these considerations is, that the first and
second questions are answered in the affirmative; the third,
fourth, sixth and seventh in the negative; and the fifth is
immaterial.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the case reman.ded for further proceedings not ineonsistent with this
opinion.

WEAVER & Others v. FIELD & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Submitted January 0, 1885.-Decided April 13, 1885.
In a suit to foreclose a mortgage on land in Louisiana, given to secure the payment of negotiable promissory:notes to taeir holder, it was held, on the
facts, that the plaintiff was never the owner of the notes, as against the
mortgagor, or those holding the land under him by deeds in which they asumed the payment of tlhe notes and mortgage.

