OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

ware River. Any one, so far as her laws are concerned, is free,
as we are informed, to establish such ferries as he may choose.
No license fee is exacted from ferry-keepers. She merely exercises the right to designate the places of landing, as she does
the places of landing for all vessels engaged in commerce. The
question, therefore, respecting the tax in the present case is not
complicated by any action of that State concerning ferries.
However great her power, no legislation on her part can impose a tax on that portion of inter-State commerce which is involved in the transportation of persons and freight, whatever
be the instrumentality by which it is carried on.
It follows that upon the case stated the tax imposed upon
the ferry company was illegal and void.
The jidgnent of the Supreme Court of the State of Pennsylvania must, therefore, be reversed and the cause rernandedfo"
further proceedings in conformity with this apinion.

LAMAR, Executor, v. MICOU, Adfministratrix.
APPEAL FROM1 THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Petition filed January 20, 1885.

A guardian, appointed in a State which is not the domicil of the ward, should
not, in accounting in the State of his appointment for his investment of
the ward's property, be held. unless in obedience to express statute, to a
narrower range of securities than is allowed by the law of the State of the
ward's domicil.
Infants having a domicil in one State, who after the death of both their parents take up their residence at the home of their paternal grandmother
and next of kin in another State, acquire her domicil.
The courts of the United States take judicial notice of the law of any State of
the Union, whether depending on statutes or on judicial opinions.
Lamdr v. M2ficou, 112 U. S. 452, confirmed.

LAVAR v. MIICOU.
Opinion of the Court.

This was a petition for a rehearing of Lamar v. Micou, ddcided at this term and reported 112 U. S. 452.
JV&. Stephen P. Nash and ir.
for the petitioner.

George C. Holt filed a brief

IR_. JusTICE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a petition for a rehearing of an appeal from a decree
of the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York, upon a bill ified against the executor of a
guardian by the administratrix of his ward.
Gazaway B. Lamar was appointed in 1855, by a surrogate's
court in New York, guardian of the person and property of
Martha M. Sims. The bill alleged that at the time of the appointment the ward resided in New York. The answer alleged
that at that time she was temporarily residing there, and was
then, as well as in 1861, a citizen of Alabama. The hearing
of the merits of the case was had in the Circuit Court upon the
pleadings, and upon certain facts stated by the defendant and
admitted by the plaintiff, which, so far as they affected the
domicil of the ward, were as follows:
William W. Sims, the ward's father, died at Savannah in the
State of Georgia in 1850, leaving two infant daughters, and a
widow, who in 1853 married a citizen of New York, and thenceforth resided with him in that State until 1856, when they removed to Connecticut, and resided there until her death in
1859. The two infants lived with their mother and stepfather
in New York (where Lamar was appointed in 1855 guardian
of both infants) and in Connecticut, from her second marriage
until her death, and then went to Georgia, and thenceforth
resided with their father's mother and her daughter and only
living child, their aunt, at first in Georgia and afterwards in
Alabama.
Upon those facts, this court assumed the domicil of William
W. Sims to have been in Georgia; and held that the "domicil
of his children continued to be in that State throughout their
residence with their mother and her second husband in New
York and Connecticut, and until their return to Georgia upon

OCTOBER TERM,

1884.

Opinion of the Conrt.

the death of their mother in 1859, and was thereafter in
Georgia or Alabama; that whether the guardian's domicil
was in Georgia Or in New York, he should not, in accounting
for his investments, be held to a narrower range of securities
than was allowed by the law of the ward's domicil; and that
many of his investments were justified by the law of Georgia or
of Alabama; and therefore reversed the decree of the Circuit
Court, which had held hii to account according to the law of
New York for the manner in which he had invested the property. 112 U. S.452.
The questions so passed upon, though hardly touched by
either counsel at the first argument, arose upon the facts admitted, were vital to the determination of the rights of the
parties, and could not be overlooked by this court. The importance and comparative novelty of some of the questions
induced the court to invite the submission of a full brief in
support of the petition for a rehearing. But, upon careful consideration of the petition and brief, the court has seen no ground
for changing its opinion, and has not thought it necessary to
add anything, beyond what has been suggested by examination
of the authorities cited for the petitioner.
In Pritchardv. JTorton, 106 U. S. 124, the point decided was
that the validity and effect of a bond, executed in New York,
to indemnify the obligee therein against his liability upon an
appeal bond executed by him in a suit in Louisiana, was to be
governed by the law of Louisiana. The decision was based
upon the fundamental rule, or, in the words of Chief Justice
Marshall, the "principle of universal law "-" that in every
forum a contract is governed by the law with a view to
which it was ma4e." Wayman v. Southarc, 10 Wheat. 1,
48. And reference was made to two recent English cases of
high authority, in which, by force of that rule, the effect of
a contract of affreightment, and of a bottomry bond given
by the master, was held to be governed, not by the law of the
place where the contract was made, nor by that of the place
where it was to be performed, nor yet by the law of the
place in which the -suit was brought, but by the law of the
country to which the ship belonged. .oyd y. Guibert, 6 B. &

LAMAR v. MICOU.

221 -

Opinion of the Court.

S. 100; S. C., L. R. 1 Q. B. 115; The Gaetano & lfaria, 7 P.
D. 137.
In Lloyd v. Guibert,Mr. Justice Willes, delivering .the judgment of the Court of Exchequer Chamber, said that.when "disputes arise, not as to the terms of the contract, but as to their
application to unforeseen questions, which arise incidentally or
accidentally in the course of performance, and which the contract
does not answer in terms,.yet which are within the sphere of
the relation established thereby," 1'it is necessary to consider by
what general law the parties intended that the transaction
should be governed, or rather to what general law it is just to
presume that they have submitted "themselves in the matter."
6 B. & S. 130; L. R. 1 Q. 13. 120. And in Te Gaetano &
MAa'ia, Lord Justice Brett, with whom Lord Coleridge and
Lord Justice Cotton concurred, pointed out that the matter before the court was "not the question of the construction of a
contract, but of what authority arises out of the fact of .a contract having been entered into." 7 P. D. 147.
The question in what securities a guardian may lawfully invest is iidt one of mere construction of the contract expressed
in the guardian's bond or implied by his acceptance of the
guardianship, but rather of what is "within the sphere of the
relation established thereby," or " what authority arises out
of* the fact of a contract having been 'entered into." And
the very terms of Lamar's bond do not point 'to the law of
New York only, but impose a general obligation to "discharge
the duty of a guardian to the said minor accor ding to law,"
as well as to render accounts of the property and of his guardianship to any court having cognizance thereof. See 112 U. S.
455.
The view heretofore expressed by this court,.that the domicil"
of the guardian is immaterial, and that, as a general rule, the
management and investment of the ward's property are to be
governed by the law of the domicil of the ward, although, so
far as the remedy is concerned, the accounting must conform
to the law of the place in which the liabiliiy of the guardian is
sought to be enforced, accords with the statements of Bar, as
well in the passage quoted by the petitioner, as in that referred

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

to in the former opinion; and the only decision of a Scotch
court brought to our notice tends in the same direction, although
the Scotch commentators treat the question as an open one.
Bar International Law, §§ 87, 106 ; (Gillespie's translation) 357,
359, 438, 445 note; -Lambv. XAontgomerze (1858) 20 Scotch Ct.
of Sess. Gas. (2d series) 1323; Fraser on Parent & Child, 609.
The ca!ses of Preston v. Mlfelville, 8 C1. & Fin. 1, and Blacki.ood v. The Queen, 8 App. Gas. 82, cited for the petitioner, relate only to the place in which personal property of a deceased
person is to be administered, or is subject to probate duty.
The petitioner, while admitting that the statement in the
former opinion that the domicil of the father was in Georgia
was a natural inference from the facts stated in the record, and
that it is probable that the -wards never acquired a domicil in
any Northern State, has now offered affidavits tending to show
that the father's domicil at the time of his death and for six
years before, was not in Georgia, but in Florida; and has referred to statutes and decisions in Florida as showing that the
law of that State in the matter of investments did not differ
from the law of New York. Florida Stat. November 20, 1828,
§ 35; Thompson's Digest, 207, 208; Afoore v. Hamilton, 4
Florida. 112, and 7 Florida, 44.
But if, against all precedent, this new evidence could be admitted after argument and decision in this court, .it would
afford no ground for arriving at a different conclusion upon the
merits of the case.
I If the domicil of the father was in Florida at the time of his
death in 1850, then, according to the principles stated in the
former opinion, the domicil of his children continued to be in
that State until the-death of their mother in Connecticut in
1859. In that view of the case, the question would be whether
they afterwards acquired a domicil in Georgia by taking up
their residence there with their paternal grandmother. Although some books speak only of the father, or, in case of his
death, the mother, as guardian by nature; I B1. Com. 461; 2
Kent Com. 219; it is clear that the grandfather or grandmother,
when the next of kin, is such a guardian. Hargrave's note, 66
to Co. Lit. 88 b; iReeve, Domestic Relations, 315. See also

LA IAR v.- MICOU.
Opinion of the Court.

Darden v. Tfyatt, 15 Georgia, 414. In the present case, the
infants, when their mother died and they went to the home of
their paternal grandmother, were under ten years of age; the
grandmother, who appears to have been their only surviving
grandparent and their next of kin, and whose only living child,
an unmarried daughter, resided with her, was the head of the
family; and upon the facts agreed it is evident that the removal
of the infants after the death of both. parents to the home of
their grandmother in. Georgia was with Lamar's consent.
Under these circumstances, there can be no doubt that by taking up their residence with her they acquired her domicil in
that State in 1859, if their domicil was not already there. And
there being no evidence that any of Lamar's investments had
-diminished in value before that time, it is immaterial whether the
previous domicil of the wards was in Florida or in Georgia, inasmuch as the propriety of his investments was thereafter to be
governed by the law of Georgia.
The law of any State of the Union, whether depending
upon statutes or 'upon judicial opinions, is a matter of which
the courts of the United States are bound to take judicial
notice, without plea or proof. Owings v. Hull, 9 Pet. 607;
Penningtonv. Gibsom, 16 How. 65; Covington Drawbidge Co.
v. Shepherd, 20 How. 227. And nothing has now been adduced tending to show that, as applied to the fact , admitted
by the parties, either the law of Georgia or the law of New
York was other than we have held it to be.
The question whether, as matter of fact, Lamar acted with
due care-and prudence in making his investments, was argued
at the former hearing, alid no reason is shown for reopening
that question
Rehearing denied.

