STRANG v. BR DNER.
Syllabus.

trolled by special circumstances not appearing on the face of
the agreement--then the estimate of the engineer, upon the
basis of the contract price, was conclusive, unless impeached
on the ground of fraud, or such gross mistake as necessarily
itmplied bad faith. The test was not whether the price and
value of the masonry fixed and returned by the engineer was
inadequate and unjust. Much less did the jury have the right
to presume fraud and disregard the engineer's estimate, merely
becaue the price, upon which the parties originally agreed for
bridge masonry, proved to be inadequate and unjust; for, that
would have enabled them to make for the parties a contract
which they did not themselves choose to make.
Without expressing an opinion upon other questions, of a
subordinate character, discdssed in the brief of the defendant's
counsel, and which may not arise upon another trial,
The judgment is reversed, awd the case remandedwith directions to set aside the verdict and grant a new trial,and
for such furtherproceedingsas may be consistent with this
opinion.

STRANG & Another v. BRADNER & Another.
IN

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE

STATE OF NEW YORK.

Argued April 13, 1885.-Decided May 4, IM5.

The rule re-affirmed that the term "fraud," in the clause defining the debts

from which a bankrupt is not relieved by a discharge under the bankrupt
act, means positive fraud or fraud in fact, involving moral turpitude or
intentional wrong. not implied fraud, which may exist without bad faith.
A claim against a bankrupt for damages on account of fraud or deceit practised by him, is not discharged by proceedings in bankruptcy; nor is a
debt, created by his fraud, discharged. even where it was proved against
his estate, and a dividend thereon received on account.
If, in the conduct of partnership business, and with reference thereto, one
partner makes false or fraudulent misrepresentations of fact to the injury
of innocent persons dealing with him, as representing the firm, and without
notice of any limitations upon his general authority as agent for the partnership, his partners cannot escape pecuniary responsibility therefor upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

the ground that the misrepresentations were made without their knowledge; especially where the firm appropriates the fruits of the fraudulent
conduct of such partner.

This action was commenced by defendants in error as plaintiffs in a court of the State of New York, to recover of the
plaintiffs in error a sum which they alleged they had been
compelled to pay, through false and fraudulent representations
of one of the members of a partnership, consisting of the defendants, made in the course of partnership business. The defendants set up a discharge in bankruptcy. Judgment for the
plaintiffs, which was affirmed by the Supreme Court, and the
judgment of that court affirmed by the Court of Appeals. The
case was remitted by the Court of Appeals to the Supreme
Court when the final judgment was entered, which the defendants below, as plaintiffs in error, sued out this writ of error to
review. TT6 federal question involved was, the effect of the
certificate of discharge in bankruptcy. The facts which raise
the question are stated in the opinion of the court.
.Ir. George H Forster for plaintiffp in error.
Mr. Tiliam F. CoggsweZI for defendants in error.

MR.JusTxn

AiRLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
On the first day of June, 1877, each of the appellants, who
were defendants below, received from the District Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York his discharge from all debts and demands 'which by the Revised
Statutes of the United States, Title Bankruptcy, -were made
provable against his estate, and which existed on the 3d day
of July, 1875-other than such debts as were by law excepted
from the operation of a digclarge in bankruptcy. The statute
excepts from the pperation of a discharge any "debt created
by the fraud or embezzlement of the bankrupt, or by defalcation as a public officer, or while acting in a fiduciary capacity;
but the debt may be proved, and the dividend thereon shall be
a payment on account of such debt." Rev. Stat. § 5,117. To
this action, brought by appellees against appellants upon a

STRANG v. BRADNER.
Opinion of the Court.

cause of action accruing prior to July 3, 1875, the latter made
defence, in part, upon the ground that their respective discharges in bankruptcy relieved them from all liability to plaintiffs. In the Supreme Court of New York there was a verdict
and judgment in favor of the plaintiffs for the sum of $17,
517.86. That judgment having been affirmed in the Court of
Appeals, the question to be determined upon this writ of error
is, whether the claim or demand of the plaintiffs is one from
which they were relieved by their. discharges in banluptcy.
If the debt was bf that character, the judgment below must be
reversed; otherwise, affirmed.
The evidence before the jury tended to establish the following facts: That for some years prior to June, 1875, the plaintiffs were doing business in the city of Rochester, New York,
as partners, under the style of Lowrey & Bradner, while, during the same period, the defendants were engaged in business
in the City of New York, under the style of Strang & Holland
Bros.; that the special business of plaintiffs was the purchase
of wool, which they forwarded to the defendants, as commission merchants, to sell on account; that plaintiffs, for the accommodation of defendants, often furnished them with promissory notes, for the purpose of enabling them to carry on
business; that the defendants took care of these notes, paying
the same at maturity out of the proceeds'of the property consigned, and with money remitted by the plaintiffs; that in the
transactions between the pafties the plaintiffs were credited
with those notes, with the proceeds of property sold on their
account, and with money remitted by them, and :were charged
with the amounts paid to take up the notes, that on or about
M,arch 1, 1875, the defendants requested the plaintiffs to furnish
them with four promissory notes, for about $4,000 each, to enable them to raise money thereon, and to be credited to plaintiffs on their account, in accordance with the course of business
existing between the parties-such notes to be of odd amounts
and made as of different dates before the time they were transmitted to the defendants, so that they niight appear to be given
for real indebtedness; that, pursuant to that request, the plaintiffs made and transmitted to defendants their four promissory

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

notes, for $4,325.50, $4,326.25, $4,327.13, and $4,327.15, each
at four months, dated, respectively, on the 1st, 9th, 15th and
20th days of February, 1875, and each payable to the plaintiffs
at the office of the defendants, in the City of New York, and
indorsed by the plaintiffs; and that, on or about April 4, 1875,
Strang represented to plaintiffs that his firm had not used, nor
been able to use, those notes, because they were made payable
at their office, and requested plaintiffs to lend them four other
notes of the same amount, payable at the Metropolitan National Bank, in New York City, to be used in the place of those
dated in February.
There was also evidence tending to prove that the plaintiffs,
relying upon the representation that the February notes had
not been used, and that the defendants desired other notes to
be used in their place, executed and delivered to the latter
four other promissory notes, each at four months, for $4,850,
$4,951.25, $4,860.30, and $4,970, respectively dated 13th, 14th,
16th, and 20th of March, 18.75, payable four months after
date to their own order at the Metropolitan National Bank,
New York, and by them indorsed; that, at the time defendants requested to be furnished with the notes last described,
they had, in fact, discounted and put in circulation the February notes, whereby the plaintiffs, as makers and indorsers,
were compelled to pay the same to the holders; that when
Strang applied for the March notes, the defendants knew that
they were insolvent, but that fact was not known to plaintiffs;
that he made such representations and procured said notes
with the intent to defraud the plaintiffs; and that the latter
was compelled to pay such part -of the March notes, as
amounted, principal and interest, to the sum for which they
obtained judgment below.
In the misrepresentations made by Strang to Lowrey &
Bradner there was no active participation by his partners, the
M essrs. Holland. But it was proven that the proceeds of the
notes lasf obtained from plaintiffs, as well as the 'proceeds of
the February notes, all went into the business of Strang &
Holland Brothers.
The present suit, brought to recover a judgment for the

STRANG v. BRADNER.
Opinion of the Court.

amount plaintiffs were compelled to pay to bonade holders of
the March notes, proceeds upon the ground that the appellees
have sustained damages by reason of the false and fraudulent
representations made by Strang, on behalf of his firm, whereby
the appellees were induced to execute and deliver to that firm
the four notes dated in March, 1875. Is that claim for damages of the class from which the bankrupts were relieved by
their respective discharges in bankruptcy?
In l3eaZ v. Cla'k, 95 U. S. 704, 709, it was held that, looking to the*object of Congress in enacting a general law by
which the honest citizen might be relieved from the burden of
hopeless insolvency, the term "fraud," in the clause defining
the debts from which a bankrupt is not relieved by a discharge
under the bankrupt act, should be construed to mean positive
fraud, or fraud in fact, involving moral turpitude or intentional
wrong, and not implied fraud or fraud in law, which-may exist
without the imputation of bad faith or immorality. This
principle was affirmed in the recent case of Mennequin v.
Clews, 111 U. S. 676, 682, where will be found a reference to
the leading cases in this country and in England. Under this
rule it is impossible to avoid the conclusion that the debt in
question was created by positive fraud upon the part of Strang.
representing his firm, if it be true-and the jury proceeded
upon the ground that such was the 'fact-that he procured the
notes, dated in March, by representing that the February notes
had not been, and could not be, used by his firm, and that they
desired other notes, so drawn as to be readily negotiated, to
take their place, when, in fact, the February notes liad been
previously put into circulation by the firm, and had then become obligations upon which the appellees were liable to the
holders. There is no pretence in the evidence that- the course
of business between Strang & Holland Bros. and the plaintiffs
would have entitled the former to bbtain the March motes, so
long as those dated in February were outstanding obligations
against the latter. Hence the necessity of deluding the plaintiffs by the false representation that the February notes had
not been negotiated at the time the notes in question were
obtained.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

That representation-as the jury, in effect, found-was made
with the intent to deceive the plaintiffs in reference to the actual state of things, and to induce them to do what defendants
knew they would not otherwise have done, or been asked to
do. If Strang's conduct does not constitute positive fraud, or
fraud in fact, involving intentional wrong, it is difficult to
conceive what circumstances would have amounted to fraud of
that character.
It is contended, however, that as Strang & Holland Bros.
were under a legal obligation, apart from any responsibility for
the alleged fraudulent representations by Strang, to protect the
plaintiffs against liability on the notes dated in Mlarch, the latter co'uld have made a claim against the estates of the several
bankrupts, for such amounts as they were compelled to pay on
account of their being accommodation makers and indorsers;
consequently, it is argued, the defendants are released, by their
respective discharges in bankruptcy, from the present claim for
damages. To this proposition there are two answers: 1.
While the plaintiffs might have based their claim entirely upon
the legal obligation of defendants to take up the notes at their
respective maturities, they were not bound to waive their right
to proceed against the defendants for damages on account of
fraud in procuring their execution. This action is brought to
recover damages for the deceit practised upon the plaintiffs.
The claim here asserted is not one from which the bankrupts
are protected by their discharges; for, it is not a claim provable
against their estates in bankruptcy. Rev. Stat. §§ 5067-5072, inclusive, 5117, 5119. 2. But had the plaintiffs waived their right
to claim damages specifically for the deceit practised upon them,
and made a claim against the estate of the bankrupts based
wholly upon their legal obligation to save plaintiffs harmless
on account of their being the makers and indorsers of the
notes in question, or if the present action had been based upon
that obligation, and not upon the fraud committed by defendants, it would not follow that the defendants would be protected by their discharges in bankruptcy; for, the statute expressly declareq that a discharge is subject, even in respect of
claims provable in bankruptcy, to the limitation that no debt

STRANG v. BRADNER.'

561

Opinion of the Court.
created by thefraud of the bankrupt shall he discharged by the
proceedings in bankruptcy, and that a debt -so created may be
proved, and the dividend thereon shall be a payment on account
of such debt. Rev. Stat. § 5117, 5119. It is, therefore, clcar
that, whether the claim asserted by plaintiffs is regarded as one
arising out of the deceit or fraud of the defendants, or as a debt
created by their fraud, the discharges in bankruptcy do not
constitute a defence.
The only other question to be determined is, whether the defendants, John B. Holland and Joseph Holland, can be held
liable for the false and fraudulent representations of their partner, it being conceded that they were not made by their
direction nor with their knowledge. Whether this action
be regarded as one to recover damages for the'deceit practised
upon the plaintiffs, or as one to recover the amount of a debt
created by fraud upon: the part of Strang, we are of opinion
that his fraud is to be imputed, for the purposes of the action,
to all the members of his firm. The transaction between him
and the plaintiffs is to be deeuied a partnership transaction, because, in addition to his representation that the notes were for
the benefit of his firm, he had, by virtue of his agency for the
partnership, and as between the firm and those dealing with it
in good faith, authority to negotiate for promissory notes and
other securities for its use. Each partner was the agent .and
representative of the firm with reference to all business within
the scope, of the partnership. And if, in the conduct of partnership business, and with reference thereto, one partner makes
false or fraudulent misrepresentations of fact to the. injury of
' innocent persons who deal with him .as representing the firm,
and without notice of any limitations upon his general authority, his partners cannot escape pecuniary responsibility therefor
upon the ground that such misrepresentations were. made
without their knowledge. Thi' is especially so when, as in the
case before us, the partners, who were not themselves guilty of
wrong, received and appropriated the fruits of the fraudulent
conduct of their associate in business. Stockwell v. United States,
13 Wall. 531, 517-8; Story on Partnership, §§ 1, 102-3, 107-8,
166, 168; Chester v. Dickerson, 54 N. Y. 1; Zocke v. Stearns,
VoL. cxv-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

1 Met. 560; Lothrop v. Adams, 133 Mass. 471; Blight v. Tobin,
7 Monroe, 612; Durantv. Rogers, 87 Ill. 508; Collyer on Partnership, Wood's Ed., § 446, 449-50; Lindley on ]Partnership,
Ewell's Ed., § 302.
Afirmed.
The judgment is

ALLING & Another v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Argued April 1, 1885.-Decided 'May 4, 1M5.

A claim against the United States for moneys awarded by the mixed commission under the Convention of July 4, 1868, with Mexico, and paid by
Mexico to the United States in accordance with the award, is a claim growing out of a treaty, and is excluded from the jurisdiction of the Court of
Claims by Rev. Stat. § 1066.
Great Western ZnWrance Co. v. United States, 112 U. S. 193, affirmed.
The Act of June 18, 1878, 20 Stat. 144, confers upon the Secretary of State
exclusive jurisdiction over the distribution of the moneys received from
Mexico in payment of the awards made by the Mixed Commission under
the Convention of July 14, 1868, with Mexico.
Frelinghuysenv. Key. 110 U. S. 63, affirmed.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
Jrr. Charles IT Hornor, aud X-. If. L. _Me Gary for, appellants.
iL&. Assistant Attorney-General faury for appellee, submitted on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE MILLfiR

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from the Court of Claims.
JBelden & Co., having a claim for seizure and confiscation of
goods by the Mexicans during or shortly after the Mexican
war, preferred their claim to the United States for presentation to the Mexicangovernment. The goods having been im-

