WESTERN ELECTRIC CO. v. ANSONIA CO.

447

Statement of Facts.
that the patent isfor an aggregation of old ornaments, and
embodies no invention. This objection is concluded, for this
case, by the language of the bill and the decree pro confesso.
The final decrees in all of the suits are "reversed,and the
cases are remanded to the Circuit Court, with directions to
disallow the award of damages in each suit, and -to award
sie cents damages in each, and to allow to the defendants a
recovery in each case for their costs after interlocutory decree, and to the plaintiff in each case a recoveryfor its
costs to and including interlocutory decree.

WESTERN ELECTRIC MANUFACTTRING COMPANY V. ANSONIA BRASS & COPPER COX-

PANeY.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF CONLNECTICUT.
Argued April 2, 1885.-Decided April 20, 18M.

The invention claimed in reissued patent No. 6,954 granted February 29,
1876, to Joseph Olistead, assignor by mesne assignments to the appellants,
was substantially anticipated by the invention described in letters patent
in Great Britain granted to the Earl of fDundonald July 22, 1852 ; and
also by letters patent granted there to Felix M. Baudouin, April 3, i857.
A claim in a patent for a process does not cover a condition in the material
used in the process which is not referred to and described in the specificatiou and claim, within the requirements of Rev. Stat. ยง 4888.
Reissued patent No. 6,954 for a process in insulating telegraph wires being void,
it follows that reissued patent No. 6955 for the product of the process is
also void.

The case was a suit in equity, brought by the appellant, the
Western Electric Manufacturing Company, against the Ansonia
Brass and Copper Company to restrain the infringement of
two reissued letters patent, numbered 6,954' and 6,955 respectively, granted to the appellant as the assignee of Joseph Olinstead, both dated February 29, 1876, for improvements in

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

insulating telegraph wires. The reissues are divisions of original letters patent No. 129,858, dated July 23, 1872. The
descriptive specifications of the Vwo patents were identical.
They differed only in the claims, the first being for a process,
and the second for the product of the process.
The specification of both patents, after stating that Olmstead
had invented a new and useful improvement in insulating telegraph wires, proceeded as follows:
"The method of insulating now in use consists in braiding
over the wires a fibrous covering, after which it is dipped in
wax, for the purpose of filling and closing its pores, and, after
a subsequent scraping to remove the surplus wax, it is ready
for use. This method is, however, objectionable, inasmuch as
it leaves the covering in a very rough and soft condition, and
fails to secure perfect insulation.
"In my improved method, after the wire has received its
coating, I dip it in paraffine or wax, after which, instead of
scraping off the surpi. s coating, I pass the whole through a
suitable machine, which compresses the covering and forces
the paraffine or wax into the pores and secures perfect insulation. By so compressing the covering the paraffine or wax is
forced into the pores, and the surface becomes and appears
polished.
"Wire insulated in this manner is entirely impervious to the
atmosphere, of greater durability, and less cumbersome than
any heretofore made."
The claim of the process patent, No. 6,954, was as follows:
"The method of insulating telegraph wire by first filling the
pores of the covering and subsequently compressing this covering, and thereby polishing its surface, substantially as described."
The claim of the product patent, No. 6,955, was: "An insulated telegraph wire, the covering of which has its pores filled
and its surface polished, substantially as described."
The defendant in its answer denied that Olmstead wvas the
first and original inventor of the improvement described in the
patents, or of any substantial or material part thereof, or that
the same was patientable or the subject matter of invention, and

WESTERN ELECTRIC CO. v. ANSONIA CO.

449

Opinion of the Court.
averred that the alleged invention had been previously patented
by letters patent of Great Britain granted to Thomas Earl of
Dundonald, dated July 22, 1852 and by letters-patent of Great
Britain granted to Felix- M. Baudouin; dated April 3, 1857.
The defendant also denied infringement.
The Circuit Court, on final hearing, dismissed thq bill, and
the plaintiff appealed.
.Mr. George P. Barton for appellant.
MJfr. Wili rainB. Wooster for appellees.
JusTicE Woons delivered the opinion of the court. He
facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
the
stated
It is clear that the two patents must stand or fall together.
If the patent for the process is invalid so must be the patent
for the product., What we have to say will refer to the process patent.
The alleged invention described in the patent is not for insulating telegraph wires, for that art long antedated the original
patent. The spedification disclaims as a part, of the invention
the braiding of a fibrous covering over the wire, and then
dipping it inwax for the purpose of filling and closing the
pores, and the subsequent scraping of the surplus wax from the
wire. The patent does not cover the material, in which the
wire, after it has received its fibrous coating, is dipped, which
may be either paraffine, wax, or bitumen, or any other suitable material. The three substances mentioned had long been
used for that purpose. Nor does, the patent specify or cover
any device- by which the process is tc be carried on. - Any suitable machine may be used.
The process described by the patent consists, therefore, simply in this- After the wire has received its fibrous coating, and
been dipped in paraffine, wax, or. other suitable substance, the
compressing and forcing of the paraffine, wax, or other substance, without scraping off any part of it, into the pores of the
fibrous material by some suitable means. We think this process was not new.
It was substantially anticipated both by,.the process deM.

VOL cxv-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

scribed in the patent of Dundonald and in that of Baudouin,
the first dated January 22, 1852, and the other April 3, 1857.
Dundonald describes his process thus:
"I also employ a bituminous material to cover, and thus insulate, the conducting wires of electric telegraphs, which are
intended to be placed under ground. For this purpose I employ the said bitumen, either simple or compounded, of a flexible description, and pass the wire through it when it is in a
melted state, then causing the wire to pass through some die
or orifice, which will deprive it of all the superfluous bitumen..
The incasement of this wire with bitumen.may also
be effected by covering it with a filamentous material, which
has been previously saturated with melted bitumen, and then
passing the wire so covered through a heated die or orifice, so
as to melt or soften the bitumen upon ibe filamentous material,
and press the whole of the coating against the wire in such a
way as to cause it to form one compact continuous covering of
the wire, and thus insure its insulation."
The patent of Baudouin describes his process as follows:
"My invention relates to the preparation of conductors of
electricity for electric telegraphs, being wires insulated to prevent the loss or deterioration of the electric currents used for
that purpose, and also in the machinery for the preparation or
manufacture of such conductors. I coat the wires with bitu-'
minous or such like fatty matters that are not liable to become
hard or crack, but, on.the contrary, are constantly acted on by
the temperature of the atmosphere. Coatings of this material
in themselves are insufficient to maintain the proper protection
and insulation for telegraph conductors, but when combined
with other materials, such as paper, woven fabrics of cotton,
silk, wool, or hemp, in a particular manner, 'are well adapted
for the purpose.
"I prefer to use three ribbons and bobbins for this purpose,
the first covering of the wire being enveloped by the second in
such manner that the helical junction of the first ribbon is
covered by the second, and the second by the third. The wire
is passed through a bath of hot bitumen, and has the superfluous matter removed by passing through suitable dies or parts

WESTERN ELECTRIC CO. v. ANSONIA CO.

451

Opinion of the Court.
to scrape and smooth its surface, and render it of. uniform
thickness. The first and second ribbons are also passed through
bituminous or other suitable matter to render them. more impervious to electricity. The coated and lapped wire is passed
through suitable dies to remove superfluous matter, to smooth
down the lapping of the ribbons, and to compress and cause
their proper adhesion.
"The coated and lapped wire passes through dies or smoothing-holes both in entering and leaving -the rotating frame;
these dies or smoothers have a rotary motion, the better to enable them to wipe and smooth the coated wire."
It is plain that these patents anticipate the process set out in
the specification of the Olmstead process patent. They all
three describe the compressing of the wax, paraffine, or bitumen coating of a wire covered with the fibrous material, so as
to attain the same rdsult, namely, the insulation of the wire.
The Olmstead patent, therefore, covers an old process ap-.
plied to the same stibject, with no change in the manner of applying it, and with'no result sdibstantialy distinct in its nature.
It cannot, therefore, be a valid patent. Pennsylvani Rairoad Co. v. locomotive Truck Co., 110 U. S. 490; 17into v.
Hamilton, 104: U. S. 485.
The fact that in .the process described in the Olmstead patent
the surplus wax or paraffine is not scraped off, but all. that adheres to the wire is compressed against it and forms pare of
the covering, 'is relied -on to distinguish that process from those
of Dundonald and Baudouin. But the Dundonald process
does not differ in this respect from"that of Olnstead, for in the
Dundonald process the whole of- the coating is pressed' against
the wire, and is left tcform the covering; and as to the Baudouin process, the difference consists merely in the use of a
greater quantity of wax or paraffine to form the coating- This
may be an improvement upon the Baudouin process, but it
does not involve invention.
So far as the present case is concerned, another answer to
this contention of' the appellant is, that, in this respect, the defendant follows the Baudouin, and notthe Olmstead process,
by scraping off the superfluous coating. material.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

It was insisted in argument, by appellant's counsel, that one
of the features of the process described in the Olmstead patent
was the allowing of the wax or paraffine covering to cool before compressing it upon the wire, and as this was not done in
the Dundonald or Baudouin process, they did not anticipate
the Olmstead process. But neither the specification nor claim
of the Olmstead patent mentions, as a part of the process, the
cooling of the wax or paraffine coating before compressing it
upon the wire. The appellant's counsel, however, contends
that it must be considered a part of the process, because the
polished appearance of the surface of the coyering described in
the specification is the result of allowing the paraffine or wax
to cool before compressing it upon the wire. But, clearly, a
patentee cannot claim the benefit of an element of his invention thus vaguely and indefinitely hinted at. The law in force
when the patent of Olmstead was issued, Act of July 8, 1870,
.ยง 26, 16 Stat. 201, Rev. Stat. ยง 4888, requires that '' before any
inventor or discoverer shall receive a patent for his invention
or discovery he shall

.

.

.

file in the Patent Office a writ-

ten description of the same, and of the manner and process of
making, constructing, compounding, and using it, in such full,
clear, concise, and exact terms. as to enable any person skilled
in the art or science uo which it appertains, or with which it is
most nearly connected, to make, construct- compound, and use
the same;

.

.

.

and he shall particularly point out and dis-

tinctly claim the part, improvement, or combination which he
claims as his invention or discovery." It is clear that if the
patentee intended to include the cooling of the wax or paraffine
before compressing it upon the wire, he has failed to describe
in his specification that element of his invention, as required
by the statute. Instead of describing the process he mentions
a quality of the product and asks the court to infer the process
from that quality. Such a vague and inverted method of description is not a compliance with the statute. That part of the
alleged invention is not even referred to in the most distant
manner in the claim. It has been held by this court that "the
scope of letters patent should be limited to the invention covered by the claim; and, though the claim may be illustrated,

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. B. & P. RAILROAD CO. 453
Counsel for Parties.

it cannot be enlarged by the' language in other parts of the
specification." Railroad Co. v. Xellon, 104: U. S.- 112. The
element of the process under consideration cannot, therefore,
be held to be covered by the patent. The contention that the
patentee intended to include it in his process is evidenitly an

afterthought.
The result of the views expressed is that both the patents
sued on are void.

Decree firmed.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA COMMISSIONERS v. BALTIMORE & POTOMAC RAIIROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM TE

SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

Argued April 9,1885.-Decided April 20, 1885.

The right to use the streets of Washington for any other than the ordinary use
of streets must proceed from Congress.
In the absence.of express authoization by Act of Congress, -the Baltimore &
Potomac Railroad Company has no power to lay its railroad track in or
across the streets of the City of -Washington.
The several acts of Congress relating to that company give it no authority to
leave Maryland Avenue on its way from Ninth Street to the Long Bridge.
The act of incorporation of the Baltimore & Potomac Railroad Company by
the Stte of Maryland confers no power upon it to use the streets of a city,
as an incident of its right to run to or from such city.
Ch. 18. Rev. Stat. Dist. .Columbia, Gieneral Incorporation, Class 7, concerning
corporations, confers no power upon a rafiroad company to use the streets
of Washington without obtaining the previous assent of Congress.

The appellee in this court, as plaintiff in the court below,
filed its bill in equity to restrain the appellants from interfering with the laying of its track in certainstreets in the City
of Washington. Tudgment being rendered for plaintiff, de-

fendants appealed to this court. The facts which make the
case are stated in. the opinion of the court.
.Hr. A!hert G. Riddle for appellants.
.Xi. .Erwck Totten for appellee;

