EX PARTE WILSON.
Syllabus.

have a close resemblance, *e adopt their principles respectig
the operation and effect of a pardon." But that principle has.
no possible application to the present case; for, the statute under
which the libbllant proceeds, and without which he would have
no standing in court, declares, in terms, that "all rights granted
to informers "-and the libellant is plainly of the class intended
to be described-shall be held "subject to the Secretary's
power of remission, except in cases where the claims of any
informer to the share -of .any penalty shall have been determined by a court of 'competent jurisdiction prior to the application -for the remission of the penalty.5' If the libellant
had, by virtue of his suit, an inchoate interest in such penalties,
that interest was acquired subject to the power of the Secretary
to destroy it by a remission applied for before the right is ascertained and established by the judgment of the proper court.
The decree below.is
Afflnmed.

EX PARTE WILSON.
OI1IGINAL.
Submitted December 15, 1884.-Decided March 30, 1885.

This court cannot discharge on habeas corpus a person imprisoned under the
senteiice of a Circuit or District Court in a criminal case, unless the sentence exceeds the jurisdiction of that court, or there is no authority to hold
the prisoner under the sentence.
The provision of Rev. Stat. § 1022, authorizing, certain offences to be prosecuted either by indictment or by information, doei not preclude the prosecution by information of such other offences as.may be so prosecuted consistently with the Constitution and laws of the United Sthtes.
In the record of a general conviction and sentence upon two counts, one of
which 4s good, a misrecital of the verdict as upon the other count only, in'
stating the inquiry whether the convict had aught to say why sentence
should not be pronoulced against him, i9 no ground for-discharging him on
habeas corpus.
In the record of a judgment of a District Court, sentencing a person convicted
in one State to imprisonment in a prison in another State, the omission to
state that there was no suitable prison in the State in which he was convicted, and that the Attorney-General had designated the prison in the
vor. cxi -27

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.
other State as a suitable place of imprisonment, is no ground for discharg.
ing the prisoner on habeas corpus.
A certified copy of the record of a sentence to imprisonment is sufficient to
authorize the detention of the prisoner, without any warrant or mittimus.
A person sentenced to imprisonment for an infamous crime, without having
been presented or indicted by a grand jury, as required by the Fifth
Amendment of the Constitution, is entitled to be discharged on habeas
corpus.
A crime punishable by imprisonment for a term of years at hard labor is an
infamous crime, within the provision of the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution, that "no person shall be held to answer for a capital or otherwise
infamous crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a grand jury."

This was a petition for a writ of habeas corpus, presented to
this court by a man confined in the House of Correction at
Detroit in the State of Michigan, under a sentence to be imprisoned there for fifteen years at hard labor, passed by the
District Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Arkansas, upn an information filed by the District Attorney
for that district.
The record of the conviction and sentence, a copy of which
was annexed to the petition, showed the following case:
The information, which was filed by leave of the court, contained two counts: The first'count upon Rev. Stat. § 5430, for
unlawfully having in possession, with intent to sell, an obligation engraved and printed after the similitude of securities
issued under authority of the United States, to wit, of an
interest-bearing coupon bond of the United States; and the
second count upon § 5431, for passing, with intent to defraud,
a counterfeited interest-bearing coupon bond of the United
States; and each count alleging that the bond was in the
words and figures of a copy attached to the indictment and
made part thereof. That copy was of an instrument purporting to be a bond of the United States Silver Mining Company
of Denver City, Colorado, having printed at its head the words
"THE UNITED STATES" in large and conspicuous capitals,
followed on a lower line by the words "sILVER 1INING COMPANY
OF DENVER CITY, COLORADO" in much smaller and less distinct
type, and bearing the signatures of "R. E.*Hullson, Pres't,"
and "J. I. Mayson, Sec'y," and otherwise numbered and
lettered very much like a genuine bond of the United States.

EX PARTE WILSON.
Statement of Facts.

The defendant filed a general demurrer to the information,
which was overruled by the court; and he then pleaded not
guilty, and was tried by a jury, who returned a general verdict
of guilty; and he moved for a new trial, for insufficiency of the
evidence to support the verdict.
. The rest of the record (a certified copy of which was the
only paper delivered to the keeper of the house of correction)
stated that the defendant was brought to the bar in the custody
of the marshal, and his motion for a new trial overruled, " and
the said defendant, being now inquired of by the court if he
have aught to say why the judgment and sentence of the court
should not now be pronounced against him upon the verdict
and finding of the .jury in this case, .finding him guilty of passing a counterfeit United States bond, aid saying nothing
further than he hath already said; and the'court being now
well advised in the premises; it is therefore considered, ordered,
adjudged and sentenced that said defendant, James S. Wilson, do
pay to the United States a fihe of five thousand dollars for said
offence and all the-costs of this proceeding, and that the United
States have execution therefor, and that he be imprisoned for
and during the term of fifteen years at hard labor in the House
of Correction at Detroit, Michigan, and that the said marshal of
this district convey the said p~isoner to the house of correction
aforesaid, and deliver him to the custody of the keeper thereof;
and that the clerk of this court make out for said marshal two
copies of this judgment and sentence, duly certified under the
seal of, this court, one of which the said marshal shall deliver
to the keeper of said house of correction, and the other return
and file in this court, with the receipt of said keeper thereon."
The offence described in Rev. Stat. § 5430 is punishable by
a fine of not more than $5,000, or by imprisonment at hard
labor not more than fifteen years, or by both; and the
offence described in § 5431 is 'punishable by a like fine and
imprisonment.
The petitioner alleged in his petition, and contended in argume that his imprisonment was illegal, upon the following
grounds:
First, That in excess of the powerof the court, and in viola-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution, he had been
held to answer for, an infamous crime, and punished by a fine
of $5,000 and imprisonment for the term of fifteen years
at hard labor, without presentment or indictment by a grand
jury.
Second, That he was held under a judgment void; and in excess of the power of the court, upon an information for a crime
Which was not committed against the provisions of chapter 7
of' the title Crimes in the Revised Statutes, in which cases informations were expressly authorized, and to which they were
impliedly restricted, by § 1022 of those statutes.
Third, That the judgment was void and in excess of the
power of the court, because the conviction and the sentence
were for different offences, the conviction being for having in
possession a bond of a mining company in the similitude of a
United States bond, and the sentence being for passing a counterfeit United States bond.
Fourth, That he was held by the keeper of the Detroit
House of Correction without -authority of law, because the
order of the court for his imprisonment did not show that the
court had determined two questions of fact which were made
by Rev. Stat. §§ 5541, 5546, conditions precedent to the exercise of its power to sentence to a prison outside the State of
Arkansas, namely, 1st, that there was no suitable prison in that
State, and, 2d, that the Attorney-General had designated the
Detroit House of Qorrection as a suitable penitentiary in another State.
Fifth, That the keeper had no warrant or mittimus authorizing him to hold the prisoner, as requirhd by Rev. Stat. § 1028.

.Xlb. Alfred ?ussell for petitioner.
-Y. Assistant Attorney-General Maury, contra.
MR. JUSTiCE GRAY, after, stating the facts in the foregoing
language, delivered the opinion of the court.
It is well settled by a series of decisions that this court, hay-

EX PARTE WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

ing no jurisdiction of criminal cases by writ of error or appeal,
cannot discharge on habeas corpus a person imprisoned under
the sentence of a Circuit or District Court in a criminal case,
unless the sentence exceeds the jurisdiction of that court, orthere is no authority to hold him under the sentence.
Watkins, 3 Pet. 193 and 7 Pet. 568; Exparte Lange, 18 Wall.
163; Exparte Parks, 93 U. S. 18; Exparte Siebold, 100 U.
S. 371; Ex yarte Curtis,- 106 U. S. 371; Exp
parte Carll, 106
U. S. 521; Ex parte Yarbrbugh, 110 U. S. 651; Ex pIarte
Crouch, 112 U. S. 178; Exyarte Bigelow, 113 U. S. 328.
None of the grounds on which the petitioner relies, except
the first, require extended discussion.
The provision of Rev. Stat. § 1022, derived from the Civil
Rights Act of May 30, 187Q, ch. 114, § 8, authorizing certain
offences to be prosecuted either by indictment or by information, does not preclude the prosecution by information of other
offences of such a grade as may be so prosecuted consistently
with the Constitution and laws of the United States.
The objection of- variance between the conviction and the
sentence is not sustained by the record. The first count is for
unlawfully having in possession, with intent to sell, an obligation engraved and printed after the similitude of securities
issued under authority of the United States, and. the copy
annexed and referred to in that count is of such an obligation.
Both the verdict and the sentence aTe general, and therefre
valid if one count is good. United States v. S3yder, 112 U. S.
216. The mis-recital of the verdict, in the statement of the
intermediate inquiry whether the prisoner had aught to say
why sentence should not be pronounced against him, is no
more than an irregularity or error, not affecting the jurisdiction of the court.
The omission of the record to state, as in Ex _parte 17arstendick, 93 U. S. 396, that there was no suitable penitentiary
within the State, and that the Attorney-General had designated the House of Coriection at Detroit as a suitable place of
imprisonment outside the State, is even less material.
The certified copy of the record of the sentence to imprisonment in the Detroit House of Correction, if valid upon its
-Exparte

OCTOBER TERM1, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.-

face, is sufficient to authorize the keeper to hold the prisoner,
without any warrant or mittimus. People v. .%evins, 1 Hill
(N. Y.), 154.
But if the crime of which the petitioner was accused was an
infamous crime, within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment
of the Constitution, no court of the United States had jurisdiction to try or punish him, except upon presentment or indictment by a grand jury.
We are therefore necessarily brought to the determination
of the question whether the crime of having in possession,
with intent to sell, an obligation engraved and printed after
the similitude of a public security of the United States, punishable by -ine of not more than $5,000, or by imprisonment
at bard labor not more than fifteen years, or by both, is an
infamous crime, within the meaning of this Amendment of the
Constitution.
The first provision of thi§ Amendment, which is all that
relates to this subject, is in these words: "No person shall
be held to answer for a capital, or otherwise infamous crime,
unless on a presentment or indictment of a grand jury, except
in cases arising in the land or naval forces, or in the militia,
when in actual service in time of war or public danger."
The scope and effect of this, as of many other provisions of
the Constitution, are best ascertained by bearing in mind what
the law was before.
Mr. William Eden (afterward Lord Auckland) in his Principles of Penal Law, which passed through three editions in
England and at least one in Ireland within six years before the
Declaration of Independence, observed, "There are two kinds
of infamy; the one founded in the opinions of the people
respecting the mode of punishment; the other in the construction of law respecting the future credibility of the delinquent."
Eden's Principles of Penal Law, ch. 7, § 5.
At that time, it was already established law, that the infamy
which disqualified a convict to be a witness depended upon the
character of his crime, and not upon the nature of his punishment. Pendock v. 3felinder, Willes, 665; Gilb. Ev. 143; 2
Hawk. ch. 46, § 102; The Ifing v. Priddle,1 Leach (4th ed.)

EX PARTE WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

442. The disqualification to testify appears to have been limited to those adjudged guilty of treason, felony, forgery, and
crimes injuriously affecting by falsehood and fraud the administration of justice, such as perjury, subornation of perjury,
suppression of testimony by bribery, conspiring to accuse one
of crime, or'to procure the absence of a witness; and not to
have been extended to cases of private cheats, such as the obtaining of goods by false pretences, or the uttering of counterfeit coin or forged securities. 1 Greenl. Ev. § 373; Utley v.
.jlerrick, 11 Met. 302; Fox v. Ohio, 5 How. 410, 433, 434.
But the object and the very terms of the provision in the
Fifth Amendment show that incompetendy to be a witness is
not the only test of its application.
Whether a convict shall be permitted to testify is not governed by' a regard to his rights or to his protection, but by the
consideration whether the law deems his testimony worthy of
credit upon the trial of the rights of others. But whether a
man shall be put upon his trial for crime without a presentment
or indictment by a grand jury of his fellow citizens depends
upon the consequences to himself if he shall be found guilty
By the law of England, informations by the Attorney-General, without the intervention of a grand jury, were not allowed
for capital crimes, nor for any felony, by which was understood any offence which at common law occasioned a total forfeiture of the offender's lands, or goods, or both. 4 B]. Coin.
94, 95, 310. The question whether the prosecution must be by
indic ment, or might be by information, thus depended upon
the consequences to the convict himself. The Fifth Amendment, declaring in what cases a grand jury should be necessary,
and in effect affirming the rule of the common law upon the
same subject, substituting only, for capital crimes or felonies,
"4.a capital or otherwise infamous crime," manifestly had in
view that rule of the common law, rather than the rule on the
very different question of the competency of witnesses.
The leading word "capital" describing the crime by its
punishment only, the associated words "or otherwise infamous
crime" must, by an elementary 'rule of construction, include
crimes subject to any infamous punishment, even if they should

OCTOBER TER, I, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

be held to include also crimes infamous in their nature,
independently of the punishment affixed to them.
A reference to the history of the proposal and adoption of
this provision of the Constitution confirms this conclusion. It
'had its origin in one of the Amendments, in the nature of a
bill of rights, recommended by the Convention by which the
State of Massachusetts in 1788 ratified the .original Constitution, and as so recommended was in this form: " No person
shall be tried for any crime, by which he may incur an infamous punishment, or loss of life, until he be first indicted by a
grand jury, except in such cases as may arise in the government and regulation of the land and naval forces." Journal
Massachusetts Convention 1788 (ed.'1856) 80, 84, 87; 2 Elliot's
Debates, 177. As introduced by Mr. Madison in 1789 at the
first session of the House of Representatives of the United
States, it stood thus : -1In all crimes punishable with loss of life
or member, presentmeht or indictment by a grand jury shall
be an essential preliminary." 13eing referred to a committee,
of which Mr. Madison was a member, it was reported back in
substantially the same form in which it was afterwards,
approved by Congress, and ratified by the States. 1 Annais
of Congress, 435,760.
Mr. Dane, one of the most learned lawyers of his time, and
who as a member of the Continental Congress took a principal part in framing the Ordinance of 1787 for the government of the Northwest Territory, assumes it as unquestionable
that, by virtue of the Amendment of the Constitution, infbrmations "cannot be used where either capital or infamous punishment is inflicted." 7 Dane Ab.280. Judge Cooley has expressed a similar opinion. Cooley, Principles of Constitutional
Law, 291.
The only mention of informations in the first Crimes Act of
the United States is in the clause providing that no person
"shall be prosecuted, tried or punished for an offence, not capital, nor for an- fine or forfeiture under any penal statute,
unless the indictment or information for the same shall be found
or instituted within two years from the time of committing the
offence, or incurring the fine or forfeiture." Act of April

EX PARTE WILSON.,
Opinion of the Court.

30, 1790, ch. 9, § 32_,; 1 Stat. 119. For very many years after- wards, informations were principally, if not exclusively, used for
the recovery of fines and forfeitures, such as tho.e imposed by
the revenue and embargo laws. Acts of July 31, 1789, ch, 5, §
27, 1 Stat. 43; March 26, 1804, ch. 40, § 3, and March 1, 1809,
ch. 24, § 18, 2 Stat. 290, 532 U
UnitedStates v. Hill,1 Brock.':156,
158; United States v. 3fann, 1 Gallison, 3, 177; Walsh. v.
United States, 3 Woodb. & Min. 341. Mr. Justice Story, -writing in 1833, said: "This process is rarely recurred to in
America; and it has never yet been formally put into operation by any positive authority of Congress, unde& the national
Government, in mere cases of misdemeanor; though common
enough in civil prosecutions for penalties and forfeitures."
Story on the Constitution, § 1780.
The informations which passed without objection in United
States v. Isham, 17 Wall. 496, and United States v. Buzzo, 18
Wall. 125, were for violations of the stamp laws, punishablb by
fine only. And the offence which Mr. Justice Field and Judge
Sawyer held in United States v. Waller, 1- Sawyer, 701; might
be prosecuted by information, is there described'as "an offence
not capital or otherwise infamous," and, as appears by the
statement of Judge Deady in United States v. Block, 4 Sawyer,
211, 213, was th. introduction of distilled spirits into Alaska,
punishable only by fine of not more than $500, or imprisonment not more than six inonths. Act -of July 27, 1868, ch.
9,73, § 4; 15 Stat. 241.
Within the last fifteen years, prosecutions by infornation
have greatly increased, and the general current of opin On in
the Circuit and District Courts has been towards sustaining
them for any crime, a conviction of which would not at common law have disqualified the convict to be a witness. Uaited
States v. Shepard, 1 Abbott U. S. 431 ; United States v. Xaxwell, 3 Dillon, 275; United States v: Block, 4 Sawyer, 211;
UnitedStates v. .Miller, 3 Hughes, 553; United States v. BaugA,
4 Hughes, 501 ; United States v. Yates, 6 Fed. Rep. 861; United
States v. Field, 21 Blatchford, 330; In -re Wilson, 18 Fed,
Rep. 33.
But, for the reasons above stated, having regard to the .ob-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the. Court.

ject and the terms of the first provision of the Fifth Amendment, as well as to the history of its proposal and adoption,
and to the early understanding and practice under it, this court
is of opinion that the competency of the defendant, if convicted,
to be a witness in another case is not the true test; and that
no person can be held to answer, without presentment or indictment by a grand jury, for any crime for which an infamous
punishment may be imposed by the court.
The question is whether the crime is one for which the statutes authorize the court to award an infamous punishment, not
whether thp punishment ultimately awarded is an infamous
one. When the accused is in danger of being subjected to an
infamous punishment if convicted, he has the right t'o insist
that he shall not be put upon his trial, except on the accusation
of a grand jury.
Nor can we accede to the proposition, which has been sometimes maintained, that-no crime is infamous, within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment, that has .iot been so declared by
Congress. See United States v. WTnn, 3 McCrary, 266, and 11
Fed. Rep. 57; United States v.-Petit, 11 Fed. Rep. 58; United
States v. Cross, 1 McArthur, 149. The purpose of the Amendment was to limit the powers of the legislature, as well as of
the prosecuting officers, of the United States. We are not
indeed disposed to deny that a crime, to the conviction and punishment of which Congress has superadded a'disqualification
to hold 6fflce, is thereby made infamous. United States v.
TWaddell, 112 U. S. 76, 82. But the Constitution protecting
every one from being prosecuted, without the intervention of
a grand jury, for any crime which is subject by law to an infamous -punishment, no declaration of Congress is needed to
secure, or competent to defeat, the constitutional safeguard.
The reniaiing question to be considered is whether imprisonment at hard labor for a term of years is an infamous punishment.
Infamous punishments cannot be limited to those punishments which are cruel or unusual; because, by the Seventh
Amendment of the Constitution, '1 cruel and unusual punishments'. are wholly forbidden, and cannot therefore be lawfully

EX PARTE WILSON.
Opinion of the, Court.

inflicted even in cases of convictions upon indictments duly
presented by a grand jury.
By the first Crimes Act of the United States, forgery of public securities, or ljnowingly uttering forged public securities
with intent to defraud,* as well as treason, murder, piracy,
mutiny, robbery, or rescue of a person convicted of a capital
crime, was punishable with deatha most other offences were
punished by fine and imprisonment; whipping was part 6f the
punishment of stealing or falsifying records, fraudulently acknowledging bail, larceny of goods, or receiving stolen goods;
disqualification to hold office was part of the punishment of
bribery ; and those convicted of perjury or subornation of perjury, besides being fined and imprisoned, were to stand in the
pillory for one hour, and rendered*incapable of testifying in
any court of the United States. Act of April 30, 1790, ch. 9;
1 Stat. 112-117; Mr. Justice Wilson's Charge to the Grand
Jury in 1'91, 3 Wilson's Works, 380, 381.
By that act, no provision was made for imprisonment at hard
labor. But the punishment of both fine and imprisonment at
hard labor was prescribed by later statutes, as, for instance, by
the act of April 21, 1806, ch. 49, for counterfeiting coin, or
uttering or importing counterfeit coin; and by the act of
March 3, 1825, ch. 65, for perjury, subornation of perjury, forgery and counterfeitig; uttering forgdd securities or counterfeit money, and other grave crimes. 2 Stat. 404; 4 Stat. 115.
Since the punishments of whipping and of standing in the pillory were abolished by the act of February 28, 1839, ch. 36,
55 5 Stat. 322;, imprispunment at hard labor has been substituted for nearly all other igiominious punishments, not capital.
And by the act of March 3, 1825, ch. 65, § 15, re-enacted in
Rev. Stat. § 5542, any sentence of imprisonme.nt at hard labor
may be orddred to be executed in a State prison or penitentiary. 4 Stat, 118.
What punishments shall be considered as infamous may be
affected by the changes of public opinion from one age to another. In former -times, being put in the stocks was not considered as necessarily infamous. And by the first Judiciary
Act of the United States, whipping was classed with moderate

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

fines and short terms of imprisonment.in limiting the criminal
jurisdiction of the District Courts to cases "where no other
punishment than whipping, not exceeding thirty stripes, a fine
not exceeding one hundred dollars, or a term of imprisonment
not exceeding six months, is to be inflicted." Act of'September 24, 1789, ch. 20, § 9; 1 Stat. 77. But at the present day
either stocks or whipping might be thought an infamous punishment.
For more than a century, imprisonment at hard labor in the
State prison or penitentiary or other similar institution has
been considered an infamous punishmnent in England and
America.
Among the punishments "that consist principally in their
ignominy," Sir William Blackstone classes "hard labor, in the
house of correction or otherwise," as well as whipping, the
pillory or the stocks. 4 B1. Com. 377. And Mr. Dane, while
treating it as doubtful .whether confinement in the stocks or in
the house of correction is infamous, says, "Punishments, clearly
infamous, are death, gallows, pillory, branding, whipping, confinement to hard labor, and cropping." 2 Dane Ab. 569, 570.
The same view has been forcibly expressed by Chief Justice
Shaw. Speaking of imprisomnent in the State prison, which
by the statutes of Massachusetts was required to be at hard
labor, he said: "Whether we consider the words 'infamous
punishment' in their popular meaning, or as they are understood by the Constitution and laws, a sentence to the State
prison, for any term of time, must be considered as falling
within them. The convict is placed in a public place of punishment, common to the whole State, subject to solitary imprisonment, to have his hair cropped, to be clothed in conspicuous prison dress, subjected to hard labor without pay, to
hard fare, coarse and meagge food, and to severe discipline.
Some of these a convict in the house of correction is subject
to; but the house of correction, under that and the various
names of workhouse and bridewell, has not the same character
of infamy attached to it. Besides, the State prison, for any
term of time, is now by law substituted for all the ignominious
punishments formerly in use; and, unless this is infamous,

UNITED STATES v. PETIT.
Statement of. Facts.

then there is now no infamous punishment other than capital."Jones v. Robbins, 8 Gray, 329, 349. In the same case, Mr.
Justice Merrick, while dissenting from the rest of the court
upon the question whether under the words "the law of the
land" in the Constitution of Massachusetts an indictment by
a grand jury was essential to a prosecution for a crime punishable by imprisonment in the State prison, and taking a position upon that question more accordant with the recent judgment of this court in ifurtado v. Calfofrnia,11Q. U, S. 516,
yet concurred with the other judges in holding that such imprisonment at hard labor was an infamous punishment. 8 Gray,
370-372.
Imprisonment at hard labor, compulsory and unpaid, is, in
the strongest sense of the words, "involuntary servitude for
crime," spoken ot, in the provision of the Ordinance of 1787,
and of the Thirteenth Amendment of the Constitution, by
which all other slavery was abolished.
Deciding nothing beyond what is required by the facts of
the case before us, our judgment is that a crime punishable by
imprisonment for a term of years at hard labor is an infamous
crime, within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment of the
Constitution; and that the District Court, in holding the petitioner to answer for such a crime, ard sentencing him to such
imprisonment, without indictment or presentment by a grand
jury, exceeded its jurisdiction, and he is therefore entitled to
be discharged.
Writ of habeas corous to issue.
A similar decision was made April 13, 1885, in UNITED STATES
V. PETIT, submitted by lk'&. Solicitor-Generalwithout argument
April 7, 1885, on a certificate of division from the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Missouri.
This was an information on Rev. Stat. § 5457, for the offence
of"passing a counterfeit half dollar, punishable by fine of not
more than 85,'000 and imprisonment at hard labor not more than
ten years. The Circuit Judge and the District Judge certified
that upon the determination of a plea to the jurisdiction they
were opposed in opinion, "the .question being whether the United

