ELECTRIC SIGNAL CO. v. HALL SIGNAL CO.
Opinion of the Court.

ELECTRIC RAILROAD SIGNAL COMPANY ". HALL
RAILWAY SIGNAL COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
'
DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.
Argued January 6, 7, 1885.-Decided March 30,1885.

Patent, 1o. 140,536, granted July 1, 1873, to Frank L. Pope for an improvement in electric signalling apparatus for railroads, was for a combination
of several previously known parts or elements, to be used together in effecting the desired result of signalling, among which parts so used, and essential to the combination, was an insulated section or insulated sections of
the track of the railroad on which the d~vice might be used.
In practical operation the 'device protected by that patent required independent devices to equalize the resistance in the different circuits.
The device patented to Thomas S. Hall and Ge6rge H. Snow, by patent
165,170, granted July 13, 1875, for an improvement in operating electric
signals, dispensed with the use of insulated sections of the track; and used
instead thereof the earth for the return current to complete the circuit ; and
arranged its conductors with reference to the batteries and magnets so as
to equalize the resistance in the circuits when the signals were operated by
a single battery.
The device patented to Hall and Snow differs from that patented to Pope in
the elements which form the combination, in the functions performed by
them, in the arrangement of the parts, and in the principle of the combination; and the rights protected in the, latter are not infringed by the use
of the former.

This was a suit in equity to restrain an infringement of a
patent for an improvement in electric signalling for railroads.
The defence denied the priority of invention, and denied the
infringement. The facts which make the case are fully stated
in the opinion of the court.
res .Perkins for apM'. George H Crisry and 21r. 67wC
pellant.
Xr.Sirmeon

. Baldwin for appellee.

JUSTICE MATr nws delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity for an injunction to restrain the
alleged infringement of letters patent No. 140,536 for an improvement in circuits for electric railroad signals, issued July

MR.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

1, 1873, to Frank L. Pope, of whom the appellants, who were
complainants below, are assignees. On final hearing the bill
was dismissed by a decree now brought here for review by t1ils.
appeal.
The drawing which accompanies and illustrates the patent
is as follows:

The following is the substantial part of the specification,
together with the claims:

ELECTRIC SIGNAL CO. v. HALL SIGNAL CO.

89.

Opinion of the Court.

"M'y invention consists in a peculiar arrangement of electric
circuits, in combination with a battery, and with two or more
circuit-closers operated by moving trains or otherwise, whereby
a series of two or more visual or audible signals, situated at
intervals along the line of a railroad, may be operated by currents of electricity derived from a single battery, thereby obviating the inconvenience and expense of employing, as heretofore, one or more separate batteries situated at or near each
signal for the purpose of actuating the same.
"In the accompanying drawing,-AA represents a portion of
the track of a railroad. At intervals of, say, a mile, more or
less, sections of the said track, a, d,' a, are electrically insulated
from the remainder in a manner well understood, and therefore requiring no detailed description. B is a galvanic battery,
of any suitable construction, and placed in any convenient
location near the line of the railroad. Two wires or other
conductors, C and Z, are attached to the positive and negative poles, respectively, of-the battery B, and extended to
any required distance in a direction parallel or nearly so to the
line of the railroad. The conductors C and Z may be placed
on poles, and should be suitably insulated from each other and
from the earth. The conductors C and Z are virtually prolongations of the positive and negative poles of the battery B.
Each of the insulated sections of track, a, a', a2, &c., is placed
at some point at or near which it is desired to erect a signal,
and any required number of these may be employed to meet
"
the requirements of any particular*case. X, XW
, and 2 are
the electro-magnets, which actuate or display the respective
signals. The said signals may be of any suitable construction,
and should be provided with some suitable means of retaining
them in position or action after the circuit through the magnets X, X1, or Xf2 has-been interrupted. m, in', m2 are magnets
so arranged as to release, reverse, or stop the action of said
signals, which have previously been brought into action: by the
magnets X, AP, and _MP.
"The operation of the apparatus is as follows: Suppose a
train moving along the track A A from left to right in a direction indicated by the arrow. Upon reaching the point a, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

wheels and axles of the train will form an electrical connection
between the opposite insulated rails, and a circuit will be formed
between the conductor C and the conductor Z,traversing wires
1 and 2,,magnet X, and wire 3,.and the signal attached to .M
will consequently be displayed. Upon the arrival of the train
at a' the same operation will be repeated, and another connection formed between C and Z, traversing the wires 4 and 5,
magnet X!', and wire 6, while at the same time a portion of the
current will traverse the branch-wire 7, magnet m, and wire 8.
Thus the signal attached to MI will be actuated, and simultaneously the action of the magnet m will release or reverse
the action of the first mentioned signal. Upon reaching the
point &'the closing of the circuit by the train will, in like
manner, cause the signal attached to 2 to be displayed, and
the signal last displayed by X2! to be withdrawn. In this mannor any required number of such signals may be operated by
nieans of a single battery.
"The respective resistances of the several circuits should be
so adjusted that they will be as nearly as possible equal to each
other, as a much more perfect action of the apparatus will be
secured thereby..
"On a railroad having a double track twd separate series of
signals, one series for each track, may be connected with the
conductors C and Z of a single battery, if required. If preferable they may be also operated by means of separate batteries
and separate conductors.
"In cases where it is requited to operate a large number bf
signals, extending along the road for a distance of many miles,
the two conductors C and Z may be extended the entire distance, and a number of batteries attached at convenient intervals, say, for instance, from five to ten miles apart. The several
batteries should all be placed with their positive poles in connection with ttfe wire C, and their negative poles in connection
with the 'wire Z, when they will virtually form one large battery, and the principle of operation will remain the same as
that hereinbefore described.
"I do not desire to confine myself to the use of any particular
form of visual or audible signals, nor to the particular devices

ELECTRIC SIGNAL CO. v. HALL SIGNAL CO.

91.

Opinion of the Court.

herein described for closing the electric circuit at points from
which asignal is to be operated. Instead of the circuit being
closed automatically by the train itself, it may be closed by a
signalman by means of a key or switch, or otherwise.
I claim as my invention"1. The battery. B, in combination with the positive and
negative conductors C and Z, two or more electro-magnets, 23f,
XI, .X2, for actuating or causing to be actuated visual or audible
signals, and two or more circuit-closers, a, d', a, placed at intervals along the line of a railroad, substantially as and for the
purposes specified.
"2. The battery B, in combination with the positive and
negative conductors C and Z, two or more electro-magnets, at,
in

, qr2, for releasing or reversing visual or audible signals, and

two or more circuit-closers, a' a', placed at intervals along the
line of a railroad, substantially as and for the purpose specified.
"3. The combination of the battery B, conductors" 0 and Z,
circuit-closer a, and electrb-magnet XM,for actuating a visual or
audible signal, with the circuit-closer a, wires 5, 7, and 8, and
electro-magnet rn, for reversing, releasing, or stopping said signal, substantially as specified."
Among several defences set up in the answer, the two chiefly
relied on were, first, that Thomas S. Hall, and not Pope, the
patentee, was the first inventor of the improvement claimed,.
and, second, that the devices .Used by the defendants were not"
an infringement of the patent:
The decree below was based on the first of these defences
alone, the Circuit Court- findingthat Hall was entitled in laN
to priority of invention; but w&,have not fbund it necessary o
discuss the questions of fact and lbw embraced in this issue, 8s
we have coficluded to dispose of the case upon the ground tha
the defendants did not, by the device . used by them, infringe
the patent of the complainants.

92

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

These devices are illustrated by a drawing, of which the fol.
lowing is a copy:
ExhibIT C.

ELECTRIC SIGNAL CO. v. HALL SIGNAL CO.

93.

Opinion of the Court.

This, diagram represents the plan of electric railroad signals,
placed and put in practical operation, by the defendants, on the
line of the Eastern Railroad near Boston, prior to the bringing
of this. suit. In comparing it with the drawing annexed to the
patent, it is to'be remembered that the latter represents a series
of double signals in succession on the line of a railroad track, divided into blocks, while Exhibit C represents but one pair of such
signals in one such block. To make it correspond with the
other, as a representation, it should be imagined as being repeated in several successive blocks, constituting portions of one
circuit, closed at fixed points by circuit-closers for that purpose.
. Mr. Pope, the paten.tee, drew this diagram, and, as a witness
on behalf of the complainants, explains it, in comparison with
the plan described in the patent, with a view to establish their
identity. He says
* "I have made a diagram which exhibits the apparatus which
I examined, or so much of it as is material to this case, which
I annex, and is marked Exhibit C.
"A battery of perhaps one hundred cells is placed in the
station building at Chelsea. One pole of ihis battery-I think
the negative pole--is connected to the earth.
"A con'ductor is attached to the other or positive pole of the
battery, consisting of an insulated wire extending along parallel with the track upon poles. This wire which I examined extended toward Boston, the end remote from Chelsea being disconnected, or, as it is termed, open. A second conductor, consisting of another similar wire insulated and attached to the
same poles, was arranged"parallel tothe first one. The gecond
wire was open at Chelsea, and connected with the earth at its
remote end.
"The first mentioned Wire I have shown in the diagram, and
marked ' positive conductor;' the second wire is marked ' negative conductor.' At a short distance from the station a semaphoric signal is placed, consisting of a red disk balanced upon
a lever. This was placed in the cupola of a small building at
the side of the track. An electro-magnet was arranged with
its armature attached to said lever, so that when brought into
action the red disk on the other end of the -lever would be

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

moved into a position to render it visible through an opening
in the cupola. A latch or detent was placed in a position to
fasten the lever after the action of the magnet had ceased, and
thus continue the exhibition of the signal. A circuit-closer was
placed upon the track at a point near the sign'al, which consisted of a lever so placed as to be depressed by the wheels of
a passing train, which movement caused the circuit to be closed
by pressing two springs together. When the circuit was thus
closed by a. passing train a connection was formed between the
positive and negative conductors, and the electric current, in
passing from one to the other, passed through and operated the
magnet by which the signal was displayed. At a point, perhaps a mile distant, another signal was arranged in precisely
tke same manner in connection with a second circuit-closer,
and the same positive and negative conductors. An additional
circuit-closer, placed upon the track in the vicinity of this lastna;med signal was arranged to form a connection from the positive to the negative conductor by the way of a third wire running upon the poles back to the sigiial first mentioned, where
it passed through and operated a second magnet, which lifted
the latch or detent, and allowed the disk to return to a position
concealing it from view. I examined two of these signals, and
saw many others along the line df the road.
"I find in this arrangement thus described the combination
claimed in the first claim of said patent, consisting of a battery
in combination with positive and. negative conductors, two or'
more electro-magnets for operating visual signals and two or
more circuit-closers placed at intervals along the line of the railroad. Also the combination claimed in the second claim of the
patent, consisting of a battery in combination with positive and
negative conductors, two or more electro-magnets for reversing
visual signals, and two or more circuit-closers placed at intervals along the line of the railway. I also find the combination
claimed in the third claim, of a battery, positive and negative
conductors, a circuit-closer and electro-magnet for actuating a
signal, with a second circuit-closer, wires, and a magnet for reversing said signal."
r. Moses G. Farmer, an expert witness on behalf of the

ELECTRIC SIGNAL CO. v*. HALL SIGNAL CO.

95

Opinion of the Court.
complainant, makes the same comparison,- with the result, according to his opinion, of establishing that the defendants'
system is essentially the invention described in the patent.
On the other hand, Prof. Henry Morton, an expert witness
on behalf.:of the defendants, points out two particulars, in
-which the plan, as practised by the defendants and shown in
Exhibit C, differs from that of the Pope patent, so materially
that they cannot be considered substantially the same.
The first of these is, that in the patent, insulated sections of
the railroad track, used when covered by a locomotive or cars
as a cir6uit-closer, are made essential to the combinations
claimed, while they are dispensed with in the Hall system,
other and independant circuit-closers being employed.
The second is thus described by Prof. Morton in his testimony:
"I also find a difference between the plan described in the
patent and that shown in Exhibit C in another regard; in the
plan of the patent the conductors 0' and Z are connected respectively with the positive and'negative oles of the battery,
or, as the patent itself states, 'are virtually prolongations of
the positive and negative poles of the battery.'
"In the plan shown -in Exhibit C, however, the conductor
0, or positive conductor only, is connected with the battery,
the other conductor, Z, or, as it is called, negative conductor,
having no connection with the battery. In consequence of this
difference of arrangement in the system of the pateit, the positive conductor C carries the positive current in one direction
away from the battery; and the other, or negative conductor
Z, brings the positive current in the opposite direction, or back
to the battery, and-thereby involves the production of circuits
of different resistance for each station. In the system represented in Exhibit C, on the other hand, both the conductor 0
and Z serve to carry the positive current in the same direction
away from the battery, and should, therefore, properly be both
called positive conductors. As a result of this arrangement the
current always passes through the same or equal circuits, no
matter at which station the connection is made, simply changing from one to the other of these equal parallel wires at the
station where the contact is effected.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

"It is for this reason that in this system no equalization of
resistance, in the sense involved in the description of the patent,
is required."
It is upon these two points that the question of infringement
depends.
In considering them, it is important to bear in mind, that
the patent is for a combination merely, in which all the elements were known and open to public use. No one of them
is claimed to be the invention of the patentee. He does not
claim them himself as separate inventions. It is simply a new
combination of old and well-known devices, for the accomplishment of a new and useful result, that is claimed to be the
invention secured by the patent. And the well-settled principles of law, heretofore applied to the construction of patents
for combinations merely, must apply and govern in the present
case.
The object of the patented combination was the accomplishment of a particular result, that is, to work electric signals on
what was known as the "block" system, by means of circuits,
operated by a single battery, instead of many. But this result
or idea is not monopolized by the patent. The thing patented
is the particular means devised by the inventor by which that
result is attained, leaving it open to any other inventor to accomplish the same result by other means. To constitute identity of invention, and therefore infringement, not only must
the result attained be the same, but in case the means used for
its attainment is a combination of known elements, the elements combined in both cases must be the same, and combined
in the same way, so that each element shall perform the same
function, provided, however, that the differences alleged are not
merely colorable, according to the rule forbidding the use of
known equivalents.
The first question we have to consider upon the issue as to
infringement, is, whether insulated sections of the rails, as circuit-closers, constitute an essential element in the combinations
described in the patent. And that question we are constrained
to answer in the affirmative.
These insulated sections of track are shown and marked on

ELECTRIC SIGNAL CO. v. HIALL SIGNAL CO.

97

Opinion of the Court.

the drawing which accompanies the specification, and in its
descriptive -part they are referred to as parts of the arrangement. It says: "At intervals of, say, a mile, more or less, sections of the said track, a, a', a2 , are electrically insulated from
the remainder in a manner well understood, and therefore
requiring no detailed description." And again : "Each of the
insulated sections of track, a, a', a2, &c., is placed at some
point at or near which it is desired to erect a signal, and any
required number of these may be employed to meet the requirements of any particular case." And in describing the
operatioif of. the apparatus, it further says: "Upon reaching
the point a, the wheels and axles of the train will form an
electrical connection between the opposite insulated rails," &c.
"Upon reaching the point a2, the closing of the circuit by the
train will in like manner cause the signal attached to 22 to be
displayed, and the signallast displayed by Wl to be withdrawn."
It is true that the patentee also says, in the specification : "I
do not desire to confine myself to the use of any particular
form of visual or audible signals, nor to the particular devices
herein described for closing the electric circuit at points from
which a signal is to be operated;" but that he does not thereby
indicate any intention of dispensing with insulated sections of
the track, asa necessary:part of the mode of forming and closing the circuit, appears from what immediately follows: "Instead of the circuit being closed automatically by the train itself, it may be closed by a signalman by means of a key, or
switch, or otherwise." This language evidently implies that
the insulated sections of the track are constant factors in the
plan, the only alternatives, proposed having reference not to a
substitute for them, but inerely to another mode of using them
in closing the circuit. So in each-of the three claims, the circuit-closers a, a, a, or one or more of them, are expressly
named as part of the combination claimed as the invention of
the patentee. The use of insulated sections of the railroadtrack thus repeatedly appears in every-part of the specificationsi
as an unchangeable and characteristic feature of the invention,.
and there is nothing in the state of the art at that date, as-disclosed in the evidence, to show that the patentee would have
vor.- cxmv-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

been justified in applying, or that, if he had applied, an application would have been sanctioned by a grant of a patent
for a combination as large and undefined as that now claimed
by implication and construction, so as to cover every form of
a circuit-closer then known or thereafter invented. For that
employed by the defendants as part of the Hall system, was
not only not known and in use at the date of the patent, but
was a device invented by Hall himself or one by Snow, for
which the latter obtained a patent dated October 21, 1873. It
dispenses altogether with the use of insulated sections of the
track, and employs instead a separate instrument placed near
the track, and worked by means of-a lever connected with the
track, so that the wheels of locomotives and cars passing on
the track depress the outer end, the lever being raised again
and held up after the train has passed by means of a spring,
which holds it in place.
Upon this point, the case seems to fall clearly within .the
rule declared in Prouty v. Rugglev, 16 Pet. .336; Silsby v.
Foote, 14 How. 218; .foCarmck v. Talcott, 20 How. 402;
Vance v. Campbell, 1 Black, 427; Eames v. Godfrey, 1 Wall.
78; Dunbar v. Ayers, 94 U. S. 187; Fuller v. Yentzer, 94 U.
S. 288; h nmause&v. Buerk, 101 U. S. 647; Gage v. Herring,
107 U. S. 640; Seymour v. Osborne, 11 Wall. 516; Gould v.
Rees, 15 Wall. 187; Gill v. Wells, 22 Wall. 1; .M.Murray
v. Afallory, 111 U. S. 97; Fay v. Cordesman, 109 U. S.
408.
On the second branch of the issue as to infringement, we
think the case is quite as clearly for the defendants. In the
patent, the entire circuit operated by the single battery, and
which is closed at intermediate points for the purpose of displaying and concealing the signals, is described as formed by
means of two wires or other conductors, C and Z, attached to
the positive and negative poles of the battery, extended to any
required distance in a direction parallel, or nearly so, to the
line of the railroad. These wires may be placed on poles, it is
said, and should be suitably insulated from each other and
froni the earth, and they are declared to be virtually prolongations of the positive and negative poles of the battery.

'ELECTRIC SIGNAL CO. v. HALL SIGNAL CO.

99

Opinion of the Court.

Throughout, the two conductors are designated as metidlic,
and insulated from the earth, and they are embraced under
that description in each of the claims. On the other hand, the
defendants' plan does not include a metallic circuit, composed
of two conductors, as thus described, but uses a circuit composed in part of the earth itself. The material difference in
the principle or mode of operation of the two plans, as distinguished in this particular, is indicated by Prof. Morton in the
extract from his testimony already quoted. It will become
more apparent on further explanation.
The object proposed by the plan of the patent is, to operate
with one battery instead of several, along the line of a railroal,
an electric circuit of considerable length, divisible into a number of subsidiary circuits, for the display of signals at many
stations, by means of circuit-closers operated automatically by
passing trains in defihite and predetermined succession. It is
obvious that the battery must have sufficient power, being
placed at one end of. the entire circuit, to- operate efficiently at
the other extremity. The force necessary. for that purpose
would be much greater than would be needed for the subsidiary
circuits, all of which, it will be observed, are different in
lenlgth ; and this difference of force in -the battery might be so
great, owing to the required length of the whole circuit, as,
when expended upon a shorter intermediate circuit, to destroy
its capacity for working the signals by overheating. It becomes, therefore, a matter of importance, in some way, to"
equalize the resistance of these varying cdircuits.. The patent
itself contemplates .thisnecessity, and undertakes to make provision for it. It is said in the specification that "the respective
resistances of the several circuits should be go adjusted that they
will be as nearly as possible equal. to each other, as a much
more perfect action of the apparatus will be secured thereby.."
The specification does not point out'any, particular methods for
that purpose, but it is" stated in the evidence of experts that
such means were well known at the time and in common use;
such as by varying the dimensions of the wire on the magnets,
or the introduction of resistance coils ;into the nearer circuits.
These devices would be independent of the apparatus described

OCTOBER 'TERM,

1884.

Opinion of the Court.

in the patent, and would have t6 be adjusted to the peculiar
situation of each line of signals in practical use.
In the Hall system, as used by the defendants, no such necessity exists. According to that plan, there is no necessity of
equalizing the resistance of the several sub-circuits, for they are
all exactly equal by their construction, as the electric fluid in
working the signal at any point, when a sub-cirbuit has been
formed by a circuit-closer, nevertheless traverses the whole extent of the large circuit, and returns by means of the connection formed by the earth to the battery. So that, in effect, the
Hall plan forms its apparatus, counting the connection through
the earth, as though it were a continuous wire, as it might be,
by means of three lines of conductors, of which two are combined by connecting wires with the magnets which operate the
signals, at points where the circuit is closed for that purpose,
carrying the positive electricity throughout the whole distance
to the extreme point of the entire circuit, and then returning it
by the third line, which is the connection by means of the
earth. And, inasmuch as a wire might be used for this purpose,
instead of the earth, it would then show three metallic conductors; and Mr. Farmer, the complainants' expert, is quite right
in saying, as he does, that the equalization of the resistances in
the several sub-circuits, accomplished in the plan of Hall, "is
due to the arrangement of the wires wholly, and not at all to
the fact that the earth is used as a portion of the conductor."
This arrangement is-altogether unlike that of the patent. It
introduces into the plan of the defendants new elements, a new
combination, and a new result. The two wire conductors. are
not the same, for, in the patent, one conducts positive electricity, the other returns the current and completes the circuit,
while, in the other, both the metallic conductors carry the current forward while the earth returns it, and in this mode the
desideratum is obtained of securing equality of resistance by
making all the circuits equal in size.
The device cannot be regarded as a substitute or an equivalent for anything contained in the complainants' patent. It is
of itself an independent invention, and, as such, forms the
sole subject of a patent granted to Hall and Snow, July 13,

ELECTRIC SIGNAL CO. v. HALL SIGNAL CO.

101

Opinion of the Court.

1875. To explain more satisfactorily the mode of its operation,
so as to show that it differs substantially from the arrangement
of the complainants, the descriptive parts of the Hall aid Snow
patent, and the attached drawings, are here given:

.OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

"In the drawing, the letters A B designate two wires, which
extend along the line of a railroad track, or, in other words, form
the line-wires of a telegraph line. The wire A connects by a
wire, 10, with one-say, the positive-pole of a galvanic battery, G, and the other pole of this battery connects by a wire,
11, with the ground. The battery G is supposed to be situated
at one end o'f the line, and at the opposite end of said line the
wire B is made to cbnnect by a wire, 12, with the ground.
Along the line are distributed a series of keys or circuit-closers,
C .D, each of which is connected with the line-wires, A B, the
connection of the circuit-closer C being effected by wires 13
and 14, and that of the circuit-closer D1 by wires 15 and 16. If
the circuit is closed through the circuit-closer C, the current
passes from the battery through wire 10, line-wire A, wire 13,
circuit-closer C, wire 14, line-wire B, and wire 12 to the ground,
and through the ground and wire 11 back to the battery. If
the circuit is closed througl the circuit-closer D, the current
from the battery passes through wires 10, A, 15, circuit-closer
D, wires 16, B, and 12 to the ground, and through the ground
and wire 11 back to the battery.
"From these two examples it will be seen that whenever the
circuit is closed along the line the electric current has to
traverse the whole circuit, and consequently the resistance is
the same in all cases."
It thus clearly appears that the difference in this particular
between the invention claimed by the complainants, and the
alleged infringement, is a difference in the arrangement of the
parts and in the principle of the combination, with different
elements performing different functions; and that the difference is something more than the mere substitution of a connection by means of the earth for one of the conducting wires.
The case is, therefore, clearly distinguishable from that of The
Electric Telegraph Co. v. Brett, 10 C. B. 838, cited and relied
on by counsel for the appellants as in point, where the substitution of the earth for a wire as a conductor, being the sole
difference, was held, under the English patent laws, not to be
sufficient to destroy that identity between the two competing
devices, which const;tuted in that case the infringement all 'ged,

ELECTRIC SIGNAL CO. v.. HALL SIGNAL CO.

103

Opinioh of the Court.

although the patent itself called only for metallic conductors.
Were that the only.difference between the two plans under
examination inthe present case, there might still be question,
in view of our own patent laws, whether the *patenteehad not
made a wholly metallic circuit a necessary. part of his corn-.
'bination, to be determined by considerations which we have
not thought it necessary to bring into view as bearing upon that
point. For, as we have seen, the difference on which we
ground our conclusion that the defendants are shown not to
have infringed the complainants' patent, in this particular, is,
not merely that they have used the earth for the return of the
current that completes the circuit, instead of a metallic conductor, but that they have arranged their conductors, in reference to the battery, the magnets, the.rails, and the. earth, upon
such a system, and -with such relations and connections, that,
in operating their signals by a single battery, the circuits are
equalized as to resistance; while in that of the plaintiffs the
circuits are of unequal size and resistance, requiring for successful practical use the equalization of the resistances thus created
by means of independent and additional devices. One plan
proceeds upon the idea of unequal circuits, to be afterwards
equalized; the other adopts and embodies the idea.of avoiding
the necessity of subsequent rectification by an original adjustment of equal resisfances. The difference is inherent in'the
two combinations ancl is substantial
On the ground that, in the two points mentioned, the defendants' system of signalling is not shown to be an infringement
of that described in the patent of the appellants, the decree of
the Circuit Court dismiising the bill is

