OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

LITCHFIELD v. BALLOU & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DIsTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted January 9, 1885.-Decided April 6, 1885.

When a bill in chancery sets forth facts which would support an action at law
for money loaned and received, the latter is the appropriate remedy; and
the bill fails for want of equitable jurisdiction.
A provision in a State Constitution that municipal corporations shall not become indebted in any manner nor for any purpose to an amount exceeding
five per cent. of the taxable property therein, forbids implied as well as
expressed indebtedness, and is as binding on a court of equity as on a court
of law.
A creditor who has loaned to a municipal corporation (in excess of the amount
of indebtedness authorized by the Constitution of the State)] money which
has been used in part for the construction of public works, is not entitled
to a decree in equity for the return of his money, because the municipality
has parted with that specific money, and it cannot be identified.
A bill in equity praying for the return to the plaintiff of specified, identical
moneys borrowed by a municipal corporation from him in violation of law
will not support a general decree that there is due from the municipality
to him a sum named which is equal to the amount borrowed.
A constitutional provision forbidding a municipality from borrowing money,
operates equally to prevent moneys loaned to it in violation of this provision, and used in the construction of a public work, from becoming a lien
mpon the works constructed with it.

This was a bill in chancery to enforce payment of moneys
loaned to a municipality in 'violation of law, and for which
it had been held that an action could not, be maintaihed
at law. Buchanan v. Litckfreld, 102 U. S. 278. The facts
making the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
2.

John -Y. Palmer and Xk. B. S. Edwards for appellant.

Xk. 1

. -Littlerfor appellees.

-MR. JUSTICE MInLR delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree in chancery of the Circuit
Court for the Southern District of Illinois.
The suit was commended by a bill brought by Ballou against

LITCHFIELD v. BALLOU.

191

Opinion of the bourt.

the city of Litchfield. Complainant alleges that he is the owner
of bonds issued bythe city of Litehfield to a very considerable
amount. That the money received by the city. for the sale to
him of these bonds was used in the construction of a system of
water works for the city, of which the city is now the owner.
ie alleges that one Buchanan, who was the owner of some of
these bonds, brought suit on them in the same court and was
defeated in his action in the Circuit Court and in the Supreme
Court of the United 'StAtes, both of which courts held the
bonds vqid.
He now alleges' that, though the bonds are void, the city is
liable to him for the money it received of him, and as by the
use of that money the water works were constructed, he prays
for a decree against the city for the amount, and if it is not
paid within a reasonable time io be fixed by the court, that the
water works of th6 city be sold to satisfy the decree. The bill
also charges that he was misled to purchase the bonds by the
false statements of tlie officers, agents and attorneys of the
city, that the bonds were valid. Other' parti e s came into the
litigation, and answers were filed. The answer of the city
denies any false representations as to the character of the
bonds, denies that all the money received for them went into
,the water works, but p~rt of it was used for other purposes,
and avers that a larger part of the sum paid for the water
works came from other sources than the sale of these bonds,
and it cannot now be ascertained how'much of that money
weht into the works.
The case came to issue and some testimony was taken, the
substance of which is that much the 'larger part of the money
for which the bonds were sold was used to pay the contractors
who built the water works, while a very considerable proportion of the cost of these works was paid for out of taxation
and other resoures than the bonds.
There is no. evidence of any false or fraudulent representations by the authorized agents of the city.
The bonds were held void in the case of Buchand v. -ite&
field, 102 U. S. 278, *because they were issued in violation of
the following provision of the Constitution of Illinois:

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.
"4 RTICLE IX.
"SEcOrio N 12. No county, city, township, school district, or
other municipal corporation, shall be allowed to become indebted in any manner, or for any purpose, to an amount, including existing indebtedness, in the aggregate exceeding five
per centum on the value of the taxable property therein, to be
ascertained by the last assessment for State and county taxes,
previous to the incurring of such indebtedness."
It was made to appear as a fact in that case, that at the time
the bonds were issued the city had a pre-existing indebtedness
exceeding five per cent. of the value of its taxable property, as
ascertained by its last assessment for State and county taxes.
The bill in this case is based upon the fact that the bonds are
for that reason void, and it makes the record of the proceedings in that suit an exhibit in this. But the complainant insists that, though the bonds are void, the city is bound, ex &,.uo
et bono, to return the money it received for them. It therefore
prays for a decree against the city for the amount of the money
so received.
There are two objections to this proposition: 1. If the city
is liable for this money an action at law is the appropriate
remedy. The action for money had and received to plaintiffs'
use is the usual and adequate remedy in such cases where the
claim is well founded, and the judgment at law would be the
exact equivalent of what is prayed for in this bill, namely, a
decree for the amount against the city, to be paid within the
time fixed by it for ulterior proceedings.
In this view the present bill fails for want of equitable jurisdiction.
2. But there is no more reason for a recovery on the implied
contract to repay the money, than on the express contract found
in the bonds.
The language of the Constitution is that no city, &c., "shall
be allowed to become indebted in ny manner or for any
purpose to an amount, including existing indebtedness, in the
aggregate exceeding five per centum on the value of its taxable property." It shall not become indebted. Shall not incur
any pecuniary liability. It shall i-t do, this in any manner.

LITCHFIELD v. BALLOU.
Opinion of the Court.

Neither by bonds, nor notes, nor by express or implied promises. Nor shall it be done for any purpose. No matter how
urgent, how useful, how unanimous the wish. There stands
the existing indebtedness to a given amount in relation to the
sources of payment as an impassable obstacle to the creation of
any further debt, in any manner, -or*forany-purpose whatever.
If this prohibition is worth anything it is as effectual against
the implied as the express promise, and is as binding in a court
of chancery as a court of law,
Counsel for appellee in their brief, recognizing the difficulty
here pointed out;- present their'view'of the case in the following language:

"The theory of relief ,assumed by the bill -is,'that notwithstanding the bonds were wholly invalid, and no suit at law
could be successfully maintained either upon the bonds or upon
any contract as such growing' out of the bonds, yet as the City
of Litchfield bs in possession of the money rec6ived for the
bonds, or, which is the -same thing, its equivalent in property
identified as having been procured with this moiiey and having
repudiated and disclaimed its liability in respect of the bonds,
it must, upon well, establisied equitable principles, restore, to
the.complainants what it atually received, or'at least so much
,ofwhat it received as is.shown now to be in its possession andin its power to restore."•
If. such be the theory of-the bill, the decree.of the court is
quite unwarranted- by it. The money received by the city'
from Ballou has lofig passed 'out of its possession, and cannot
be restored to complainant. Neither the specific money nor
,any other money is to be found in the.safe-of the city or anywhere else under its control. And the decree of' the court, so
far from attempting to restore the specific money, declares that
there is due from the City of Litchfield to complainants a sum
of.money, nbt that original money, but a sum equal in amount
to the bonds and. interest on them from.the day of their issue.
Is this a decree to return the identical money or property re"..ceiyed, or is it a decree to pay as on an implied contract the
sum received, with interest for its use?
As regards the water works, into which it is said the money
.VOL. CXIV-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

was transmuted; if the theory of counsel is correct, the water
works should have been delivered up to plaintiffs as representing their money, as property which they have purchased, and
which, since the contract has been. declared void, is their _propert,, as representing their money. In this view the restoration
to complainants of the property which represents their money
puts an end to obligations on both sides growing out of the
transaction. The complainants, having recovered what was
theirs, have no further claim on the city. The latter having
discharged its trust by returning what complainant has elected
to claim as his own, is no longer liable for the money or any
part of it.
But here also the decree departs -from what is now asserted
to be the principle of the bill. Having decreed an indebtedness where none can exist, and declared that complainant has
a lien on, not the ownership of, the water works, it directs a
3ale of the water works for the payment of this debt and the
satisfaction of this lien.
If this be a mode of pursuing and reclaiming specific property into which money has been transmuted, it is a new mode.
If the theory of appelled's counsel be true, there is no lien on
the property. There is no debt to be secured by a lien. That
theory discards the idea of a debt, and pursues the money into
the property, and seeks the property, not as the property of the
city to be sold to pay a debt, but as the property of complainant, into which his money, not the city's, has been invested, for
the reason that there was no debt created by the transaction.
The money received on the bonds having been expended,
with other funds raised by taxation, in erecting the water
works of the city, to impose the amount thereof as a lien upon
these public works would be equally a violation of the constitutional prohibition, as to raise against the city an implied
assumpsit for money had and received. The holders of the
bonds and agents of the city are partiipescriminis in the act
of violating that prohibition, and equity will no more raise a
resulting trust in favor of the bondholders than the law will
raise an implied assumpsit against a public policy so strongly
declared.

LITCHFIELD v. BALLOU.
Opinion of the Court.

But there'is a reason why even this cannot be done.
Leaving out of view the question of tracing complainants
money into these works, it is very certain that there is other
money besides theirs in the same property. The land on which
these works are constructed was bought and paid for before
the bonds were issued or voted. The streets through which
the pipes are laid is public property into which no money of
the complainants entered. Much, also, of the expense of construction was paid by taxation or other resources of the city.
How much cannot be known with certainty, because, though
the officers of the city testify that on the books a separate
water-works account -as kept, there is no evidence that the.
funds which went to build these works are traceable by those
books to their source in any instance.
If the complainants are after the money they let the city
have, they must clearly identify* the money, or the fund, or
other property which represents that money, in such a manner
that it can be reclaimed and delivered without taking other
property with it, or injuring other persons or interfering with
others' rights.
It is the consciousness that this cannot be done which caused
the court and counsel to resort to the idea of a debt and a lien
which cannot be sustained. A lien of a person on his own
property, which is and has always been his, in favor of himself,
is a novelty which only the necessities of this case could suggest.
Another objection to this assertion of a right to the property
is, that the bondholders, each of whom must hold a part of
whatever equity there is to the property, are numerous and
scattered, and the relative amount of the interest of each in
this property could hardly be correctly ascertained. The property itself cannot be divided; 4ts value consists in its unity as a
system of water works for the city. Without the land and the
use of the streets, the value of the remainder of the plant is
gone. In these complainants can have no equity.
The decree of the court is reversed dnd the case remanded,
witl directions to dismiss the bill.

,M . JUSTICE HARL" dissented.

