STURGES v. CARTER.
I

Syllabus.

of way which the City of INew Orleans, by its ordinance No.
4,523, dated May 21, 1878, attempted to graiit to the second
Canal Street, City Park and Lake Railroad Company, and
which had already been granted to the first company of that
name. In substance and in effect the right of way seized by
the sheriff at the instance of Delamore, is the right of way
owned by and in possession of the plaintiff, and forms a part of its
property, giving value, and necessary to the use and enjoyment
of the residue. The property thus seized in execution is
claimed by the .plaintiff, who is a third person, not a party to
the judgment on which the execution is issued. This is the case
provided for by Articles 395,.3.96, 397 and 399 of the Code of
Practice, and it is under these articles that the present suit is
brought and justified. We think the injunction granted by
the Fifth District Court restraining the sale of the right of
way and franchises of the plaintiff should not- have been dissolved.
So much of the decree of the Supreme Court of Louisiazna as
was appealed from in this case is, therefore, reversed, ahd
the cause is remanded to that court, with instructions to
render a decre; enjoining and restraining the defendants
from advertising or selliny or offering for sdle, upon the
execution described'in the bill, the right of way and franchises granted by the City of .lew Orleans to the Canal
Street, City Park and Lake Railroad Company by ord!nance _o. 4,523, administrationseries,dated May 21, 1

STURGES v. CARTER, Treasurer.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT. OF OHIO.
Argued March 31,1885.-Decided May 4,1885.

A statute of Ohio authorized county auditors to issue compulsory process to
bring before them persons who, they had reason to believe, were making
false returns of their property for purposes of taxation, and to examine
them under oath, and required them to notify'every person before making

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.
entry on the tax list that he might have an opportunity to show that his
statement or return was correct A tax-payer was summoned before the
auditor to give information of property not returned for taxation, and appeared, and while in attendance was informed by the auditor of his purpose
to increase the amount of property returned by him for taxation : Held,
That this was a substantial compliance with the provision requiring the
auditor to notify the tax-payer before making entry of the increase.
The act of the Legislature of Ohio of May 11, 1878, authorizing auditors to
extend inquiries into returns of property for taxation, over a peiiod of four
years next before that in which the inquiry is made, is no violation of that
provision in the Constitution of that State which declares that "the General Assembly shall have no power to pass retroactive laws."
Mr. Justice Story's definition of a retrospective law in Societyfo. Propagating
the Gospel v. w7heeler, 2 Gall. 189, has been adopted by the Supreme Court
of the State of Ohio, and is quoted and adopted by this court.
The provision Z 59 Act of April 5, 1859, of Ohio, that "no person shall be required to list for taxation any certificate of the capital stock of any company, the capital stock of which is taxed in the name of the company,"
does not apply to shares in a foreign corporation which pays taxes in Ohio
only on the portion of its property which is situated there.

This action, brought in a State court of Ohio by a county
treasurer to recover taxes upon shares of stock of the Western
Union Telegraph Company of New York, held by the defendant below and not returned by him for taxation, was removed
to the Circuit Court of the United States after answer filed.
Judgment below in favor of the plaintiff. The defendant.%below sued out this writ of error. The facts which make the case
are stated in the opinion of the court.
.Xr. Albert G. Biddle (-Yr. C. H. Scribner, .Xr. Henry E.
.Davi,, and .21k. James E Padgett were with him) for plaintiff
inerror.
.JL". John T. Jenne,, and 3i. Andrew Sq'?4re submitted for
defendant in error, on their brief.
AIR. JUSTICE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action brought by John A. Lee, as treasurer of
Richmond County, in the State of Ohio, against Stephen B.
Sturges to recover taxes levied for the years 1874, 1875, 1876
and 1877, upon shares of stock of the value of-100,000 in

STURGES v. CARTER.
Opinion of the Court.

the Western Union Telegraph Company, and certain credits
and investments owned by Sturges, who during those years
was a citizen of Ohio, residing in the city of Mansfield, in said
county. The amount of the taxes sued for was $10,776.83,
w-ith the penalty thereon of ten per cent., amounting to
$1,077.68, making a total of $11,S54.50. The controversy in
this case relates only to the taxes on the stock of the telegraph
company.
Before the trial the term of office of Lee, the original plaintiff, expired, and Merchant Carter, his successor in office, was
substituted as plaintiff in his stead. The parties waived a trial
by jury and submitted the case to the court upon the issues of
fact as well as of law.
The court made a special finding of facts from which it appeared as follows:
For ten years bef9re the commencement of this suit the defendant was a citizen of said county; for the years 1874, 1875,
1876, and 1877 he made returns in accordance with law,
purporting t6 contain full and accurate lists of all his personal.
property subject to taxation; the returns were received and
acted upon as being correct until the 23d June, 1878, when the
county auditor caused defendant to be subpcenaed to appear
instanter before him at his office, to give information, pursuant
to the statute in that case provided, of all property within his
knowledge which had not been duly returned for taxation.
The defendant accordingly appeared and submitted to an examination. Whilst undergoing examination the auditor exhibited to him a list of judgments and mortgages in his favor
not included in his tax returns, and then and there told him
that under the advice of the auditor of state, he felt it to be his
duty to make a supplemental assessment against him for the
four years named, of all the property'which he owned during
-that period, which was subject to taxation in said county, and
not included in his returns; called defendant's attention to
the statute under which he proposed to proceed; and r6quested
such explanation as'he might deeni it proper to make. Defendant thereupon made such explanations as he chose'to offer.
This was the only notice given by the auditor tb the defendant
VOL. cxiv--83

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

of his intention to assess him on all personal property owned
by him during said period, and not included in his tax returns.
The auditor then proceeded to assess the defendant on
$100,000 of stock in the Western Union Telegraph Company
for each of the years 1874, 1875, 1876, and 1877, and entered
the same on a supplemental tax duplicate, and certified the
same to the county treasurer for collection.
The defendant owned the telegraph stock so assessed during
the four years aforesaid, and the same had not been included in
his returns for taxation, nor had he been theretofore charged
with or paid any tax on the same.
The Western Union Telegraph Company was organized
under the laws of New York; it had a paid-up capital of
$41,000,000; most of its property Nvas situated outside of Ohio;
it owns 4,950 miles of telegraph wires, with the chemicals and
office furniture used in connection therewith, in Ohio, all which
for ten years past it had regularly returned for taxation, and
paid thereon from $10,000 to $15,000 per annum of tax to the
State of Ohio.
From the findings of fact the court deduced the following
among other conclusions of law:
"The auditor's said supplemental assessment was authorized,
and is regular and valid, and under the statutes of Ohio, as construed by'the courts of the State, the defendant is liable in
this action for the amounts assessed on his Western Union
Telegraph stock, and judgment will therefore be rendered
against him for the tax so assessed thereon, with the damages
prescribed by statute, and interest and costs."
The court thereupon rendered judgment against Sturges for
$10,727.65, "the sum so as aforesaid found to be due," and thereupon Sturges sued out the present writ of error to reverse that
judgment.
The first contention of the plaintiff in error is that the court
erred in holding that the notice given to him by the auditor of
Richland C6unty was sufficient, under the statutes of Ohio, to
authorize the assessment of the additional takes, and in admitting evidence of what was said by the auditor to the plaintiff in
error when the latter was under examination.

STURGES v. CARTER.
Opinion of the Court.

Section 2782 Rev. Stat.. of Ohio, originally § 34: of the
act of April 5, 1859, Swan-and Critohfield's Statutes, page 1452,
provides, in substance, that if the county auditor shall have
reason to b6lieve that any person has given to the assessor a
false statement of his personal property, moneys,-or credits,
investments in bonds, stocks, joint stock companies, or otherwise, which are by law subject to taxation, or that the assessor
has made an erroneous return of any such property, he shall
proceed, at any time befor6 the final settlement with the-county
treasurer, to charge such person on the duplicate with the
proper amount of taxes, and to enable him to do this, he is
authorized to issue compulsory process and require the attendance of any person "whom he might suppose to have a knowledge of the articles or value of the personal property, moneys,
or credits, investments in bonds, stocks, joint stock companies,
or otherwise, and examine such person or persons on oath in
relation to such statement or return; and it shall be the duty
of the auditor in all such cases to notify every*such person,
before making the-entry, on the tax list and duplicate, that he
may have an opportunity .of showing that his statement or
return of the assessor was correct. And the county auditor
shall in all such cases file in his office a statement of the facts
or evidence on which he made such correction." These provisions of the statute have been in force ever since April 5, 1859.
The findings -of fact show that the plaintiff in error was subpenaed to appear before the auditor to give information of all
property within his knqwledge which had nbt been returned
for taxation, and that, while in attendance before the auditor,
he was informed by the latter of his purpose to increase the
amount of the property returned by him for taxation. This was
a substantial compliance with the statute, which required the
auditor to notify the tax-payer, before making the entry of
such increase on the tax list and duplicate, of his purpose to do
so, so that be might have an opportunity of showing that his
statement or. the return of the assessor. was correct. The
subpoena served on J.he plaintiff in error and the conduct of the
auditor under it gave him the opportunity t6 which the statute
entitled him.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

But the plaintiff in error contends, that, beside service of the
subpcena requiring him to attend upon the auditor and give
testimony in relation to property not returned for taxation, he
was entitled to written notice before the auditor could make an
entry on the tax list of any additional property omitted in his
returns. The statute does not require any notice in writing
,xcept the compulsory process of subpcena to be served upon
the person called to attend and testify. But if any further
notice was required, it was waived by the plaintiff in error.
The finding of the Circuit Court shows that he appeared and
submitted to an examination touching the correctness of his returns, that the auditor told him during such examination that
as auditor he was required by his duty to make a supplemental
assessment against him of the property which he had not included in his returns for the four years mentioned in the findings of the court, and requested him to make such explanations
of his returns as he thought proper, and that he did make such
as he chose. It does not appear that he complained that he
had not received notice of the purpose of the auditor to increase
the assessment of his property, or that the notice was not in
writing, or that it was too short, or that he asked further time
for consideration, or to take the advice of counsel, or to produce
further evidence. From all that appears by the record, there
was no surprise; he had opportunity to establish the correctness of the tax returns, and to show the auditor that he was
not liable to an additional assessment. He cannot, therefore,
complain of want of notice.
The plaintiff in error next insists that the law of 1878, by
which the auditor assumed to correct the returns of the plaintiff in error for the years from 1874 to 1877 inclusive, and
place his *omittedproperty on the tax list, was retroactive, and
therefore forbidden by section 28 of Article 2 of the Constitution of Ohio, which declares that "the General Assembly
shall have no ppwer to pass retroactive laws."
Before the passage of the act of 1878, the law of Ohio, § 1
of the act of April 5, 1859, Vol. 46, page 175, ITaws of Ohio;
Vol. 2 Swan & Critchfield's Revised Statutes of Ohio, page
1438, provided that all property, whether real or personal, in

STURGES v. CARTER.
Opinion of the Court.

the State, all moneys, credits, investments in bonds, stocks, etc.,
of persons residing therein, should be subject to taxation and
entered on the list of taxable property for that purpose; and
section six of the same act required the owner to make out
and deliver to the assessor a statement under oath of all the
personal property, moneys, investments in bonds or stocks, required to be listed for taxation. This was the law in force
during the years for which the taxes sued for were assessed
and levied, and it is still in force.
Section 34 of the act of April 5, 1859,re-enaQted as § 2782 Rev.
Stat. Ohio, of 1880, authorized, as we have stated, the county
auditor, in case he believed any person had made a false return
I of his personal -property, investments in bonds or stocks, to
proceed at any time before the final settlement with the county
treasurer, which was required to be made annually, to correct
the return and charge such person on the duplicate with the
proper amount of taxes. By § 1 of a supplementary act passed
March 29, 1861, Vol. 58, page 47, Laws of Ohio, it was provided that if any- person whose duty it was to make a return
of property for taxation should make a false return, the auditor should ascertain the true amount of the taxable property
that such person ought to have returned, and add thereto fifty
per centum oii the amount so ascertained, and the amount so ascertained, with the fifty per centum, should be entered on the
duplicate for taxation. These enactments continued in force until
the act of May 11, 1878, when they were amended by § 48 of
that act by adding the following clause: "And the inquiry
and corrections provided for in this and the next section may
go as far back as the same can be traced, not exceeding the
four years next prior to the year in. wh:;h the inquiries and
corrections are made; but as to former years no penalty should
be added and only simple taxes should be claimed." Laws of
Ohio, 1878, title 13, page 456; Rev. Stat. Ohio, of 1880, § 2781.
As this act took effect upon its passage, it authorized the auditor, in any future corrections and adjustments of taxes due,
to extend his inquiries back for a period of four years. It did
not require him to wait four years after its passage before he
could give it full effect.

OCTOBER TERM,

1884..

Opinion of the Court.

It is this amendment of April 11, 1878, which the plaintiff
in error insists is retroactive, because it authorizes the auditor
to go back for a period of four years to correct false returns;
whereas, before its passage he could not for that purpose go
behind his annual settlement with the treasurer.
The complaint is not that the auditor was required to add
fifty per centum to the value of the omitted property, for the
old law authorized him to do that, provided he did it before his
annual settlement with tWe county treasurer, and the new law
authorized him to make the addition of fifty per centum for
the current year only, so that in this respect the new law did
not change the old; but that it was not competent for the
legislature to go behind the annual adjustments mde of the
taxes by the auditor with the tax-payer; that if the State had
wrongfully assumed too much, the citizen was barred, and if
the citizen had listed too little the State was barred, and that
legislation which undertook to open these adjustments was
retroactive.
In substance, this contention is that a tax-payer who has
been evading the payment of the taxes due from him by making false returns, can shield himself behind the annual settlement made by the auditor with the treasurer, in which his
returns were assumed to be true, and that the legislature can
pass no act by which the falsity of the returns can for a limited
period (in this case four years) be exposed, and the payment of
the taxes enforced-in other words, that the tax-payer has a
vested right in the fruits of his false returns. Such a proposition cannot be sustained. Foster v. Essex Bank, 16 Mass. 245.
In our opinion, no right of the tax-payer was invaded by the
act of 1878. His investments in bonds and stocks were subject
to taxation; the taxes upon such investments were due to the
State, and the act of 1878 merely provided a method by which
the taxes might be assessed and collected in spite of the annual
settlements made by the auditor. It gave a new remedy to
the State for enforcing a right which it had all the time possessed, namely, the right to the taxes upon property liable to,
taxation.
Such an act is not a retroactive law within the meaning of

STURGES v. CARTER.
Opinion of the Court.

the -Constitution of Ohio. In the case of The Societyfor P'op-.
agating the Gospel v. Wheeker, 2 Gall. 139, Mr. Justice Story
thus defines a retroactive, or, as he caUis it, a retrospective law:
"Upon principle, every statute which takes away or impairs
vested rights acquired under existing laws, or creates a new
obligation, imposes a new duty, or attaches a new disability, in
respect to transactions or considerations already past, must be
deemed *retrospective." The act of 1878 took away no vested
right of the tax-payer, it imposed upon him no new duty or
obligation, ind subjected him to no new disability in reference to past transactions. The definition of Judge Story was
adopted by the Supreme Court of Ohio in Ro.irden v. golden,
15 Ohio St. 207, when construing the clause in the Constitution of Ohio now under consideration. Applying that defini-.
tion, it is cldar the provision, in the act of May 11, 1878, complained of, is not open to the objection that it is forbidden by
the Constitution of the State. See also Goskorn v. Purcell,11
Ohio St. 641; Greene Townseip v. Camypbll, 16 Ohio St. 11;
State v. Riehland Township, 20 Ohio St. 362; -Dow v. Ao-rig,
4 N. H. 16; Clark v. Clark, 10 N. H. 380; Greenlaw v* Greenlaw, 12 N. H. 200. The authorities cited are conclusive against
the contention that the legislation under .review is retroactive.
The plaintiff in error next insists that the Circuit Cour erred
in deciding that ceitificates or shareg.of capital. stock in the
Western Union Telegraph Company, held by:hini, were taxable in the State of Ohio.
Section 2 of Article 12 of the Constitution of Ohio declares:
"Laws shall be passed taxing by a uniform rule all moneys,
credits, investments in bonds, stocks- joint-stQck companies, or
otherwise."
To give effect to this provision the act of April 5, 1859, Tv.
Stat., Swan & Oritehfield, 1438, entitled "An Act for the; asessment of all property in this State," &c., was passed.: It
was provided by S I of this act as follows: "All property,
whether real or personal, in-this State, all moneys, credits, in.vestments in bonds, stocks, joint-stock companies, or otherwise,
of persons resiliti therein,
.- except such as is hereinafter expressly exempted, shall be subject to taxation, and. such

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

property, moneys, credits, investments in bonds, stocks, jointstock companies, or otherwise, or the value thereof, shall be
entered on the list of taxable property for that purpose." By
§ 2 of the same act it was enacted as follows: "That the term
investment in stocks, whenever used in this act, shall be held
to mean and include all moneys invested . . . in any association, corporation, joint-stock company, or otherwise, the
stock or capital of which is or may be divided into shares,
which are transferable by each owner without the consent of
the other partners or stockholders, for taxation of which no
special provision is made by this act, held by persons residing
in this Staie, either for themselves or as guardians, trustees, or
agents."
There was no special provision for the taxation of such property.as the shares held by the plaintiff in error in the Western
Union Telegraph Company. It is plain, therefore, that, under
the act of April 5, 1859, the shares of stock held by the plaintiff in error were taxable in the State of Ohio, unless they were
expressly exempted. The plaintiff in error relies upon an exemption contained in the ninth subdivision of § 3 of the act,
which is as follows: "9th. Each individual in this State may
hold exempt from taxation personal property of any description, of which such individual is the actual owner, not exceeding fifty dollars in value; . . . no person shall be required
to include in his statement, as a part of the personal property,
moneys, credits, investments in bonds, stocks, joint-stock companies, or otherwise, which he is required to list, any share or
portion of the capital stock or property of any company or corporation which is required to list or return its capital and property for taxation in this State." Rev. Stat. Swan & Critchfield, 1441.
Section 59 of the same 4ct provides that "no person shall be
required to list for taxation any certificate of the capital stock
of any company, the capital stock of which is taxed in the name
of the company."
As the findings of the Circuit Court show that a part of the
property of the Western Union Telegraph Company was in the
State of Ohio, and that it paid taxes on the same to the State,

.' $TURGES v. CARTER.
Opinion of the Court.

521
-

"

the plaintiff in error insists that the shares of stock held by
him in the company were exempted from taxation by the
clauses of the act of April 5, 1859, which we have quoted.
This contention cannot be sustained. The law taxes the
shares of the plaintiff in error unless they are "expressly exempted."- The-burden is on him to show an express exemption.
There is no exemption unless the payment by the Western
Union Telegraph Company of the tax imposed on its property
situated in the State, and which the findings of fact made by
the Circuit Court show was but a small part of its whole
property, relieves from taxation its shares held by a resident of
the State.
-It may be conceded that generally the capital or the capital
stock of a corporation is its property. Bank Tax Case, 2 Wall.
200; .HationalBank v. Commonwealth, 9 Wall. 353. But the
shares held by the stockholders are distinct from the capital
stock of the corporation, and the taxation of both is not necessarily double taxation. Farrington v. Ten.nessee, 95 U. S. 679;
.Dewing v. Perdicaries,96 U. S. i93; Bradley v. Bauder, 36
Ohio St. 28. The claim; therefore, of the plaintiff in error is to
the exemption of a- certain class of his property from taxation.
But it has been repeatedly held by this court that an exemp.
tion from taxation must be expressed in clear and unmistakable
terms and cannot be shown by doubtful or ambiguous language. Providence'Bankv. Billings, 4 Pet. 514; Gilft/lan v.
Union Canal Co., 109 U. S. 401.
The case, therefore, depends upon the construction of the
statute. The Supreme Court of Ohio has decided, that shares
owned by a resident of Ohio in a foreign corporation, none of
whose capital was taxed in Ohio, but all of it in the State
where the corporation ohad its home, was taxable in Ohio.
Br dley v. Bauder, 36 Ohio St. 28. The controversy on this
part of the case is, therefore, reduced to the question, whether
the legislature has clearly and unmistakably expressed the purpose in the act under consideration to exempt from taxation
shares in a foreign corporation owned by residents of Ohio,
when but a small part of the property of the company was
subject to taxation in Ohio.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

The exemption from taxation of investments in stocks, provided by the statute, applies only to shares of those corporations which are required to return their capital and property
for taxation in the State. Jones v. Davis, 35 Ohio St. 474.
This clearly means those corporations which are required to
return all, or substantially- all, their capital and property.
There is no rule of interpretatiqn by which the statute can be
held to apply to corporations who list only a small part of.
their property for taxation in Ohio. If the legislature had intended to allow an exemption in such a case, it could and
would have expressed that purpose by words not admitting of
doubt. A6 the shares of the plaintiff in error in the Western
Union Telegraph Company were not only not expressly, but
not even by fair implication, exempted from taxation, we are
of opinion that the tax complained of was authorized by law.
Lastly, complaint is made that the Circuit Court erred in
rendering judgment for th6 penalty and interest upon the additional taxes assessed against the plaintiff in error.
The judgment of the Circuit Court was for $10,727.65, which
is less than the taxes demanded in the petition without either
interest or penalty. The findings of fact do not show the rate
of taxation for any one of the four years for which the taxes
were recovered, and it is impossible for us to say that anything
iwas included in the judgment but the simple taxes. It is true
that the court said in its conclision of law that judgment
would be rendered for the tax, with the damages prescribed by
statute, and interest and costs.
But we have not been referred to any statute which gives damages in this class of cases, and there is nothing in the findings
to show that anything was actually included in the judgment,
either for damages or interest. The amount of the judgment
was based upon the assessment of the property of the plaintiff
in error made by the auditor, a sworn public officer. Therefore, the burden is on the plaintiff in error to show by the
recdrd that the court rendered judgment for an amount not
authorized by law. This he has failed to do.
Under the circumstances, we mnust presume that the judgment of the Circuit Court, in respect to its amount, as well as

BEECHER MFG.- CO. v. ATWATER MFG. CO.

&23

Opinion of the Court.
in other respects, was right, unless the contrary is shown.
7entress v. Smitk, 10 Pet. 161 ; Townsend v. Jamison, 7 How.
706, 714; :The Skip Potomac, 2 Black, 581.
We find no error in the record.
Judgment fflrmed.

BEECHER MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. ATWATER MANUFAOTURING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF CO.NECTICUT.
Argued April 23, 1885.-Decided May 4,1885.
The use in succession of two distinct pairs of dies, of well-known kinds, not
combined in one machine, nor co-operating to one result, but each pair
doing by itself its own work, is not a patentable invention.

This was a bill in equity for infringing a patent right. The
facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
.2fr.0. IT P att and -r.

H T. Fenton for appellant.

.2r. George S. Prindleand -r.

J. A.. Wilson for appellee.

Mx. JUSTiCE GRA- delivered the opinion of thecourt.
This is an appeal from a decree for an injunction "anddamages for the infringement of a patent issued to Robert R. Miller, on February 22, 1870, and reissued to his assigns on May
6, 1879, for an improvement in dies for forming the clip arms
of king bolts for wagons. 8 Fed. Rep. 608.
According to the description i~n the specification, such bolts
ae made by taking an iron rod of suitable length, splitting it
for about two inches at one end, and turning the forks or arms
outwards; then heating the rod, placing the.body ina hole in
a block or die grooved to receive the arms, and striking it witli
a plane-faced upper die, so as to force the. arms into and make

