OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

securities depends upon the fact of their being the obligations
of the United States. So if A have title to land by patent of
the United States and brings an action against B for trespass
or waste, committed by cutting timber, or by mining and carrying away precious ores, or the like, it is not therefore a case
arising under the laws of the United States. It is simply the
case of an ordinary right of property sought to be enforced.
-A suit on a judgment is nothing more, unless some question is
raised in the case (as might be raised in any of the cases specified), distinctly involving the laws of the United States-such
a question, for example, as was ineffectually attempted to be
raised by the defendant in this case. If such a question were
raised then it is conceded it would be a case arising under the
laws of the United States.
These considerations show a wide distinction, as it seems to
us, between the case of a suit merely on a judgment of a
United States court, and that of a suit by or against a United.
States corporation; which latter, according to the masterly
analysis of Chief Justice Marshall in.Osborn v. Bank q) the
U2nited States, 9 Wheat. 738, is pervaded from its origin to its.
close by United States law and United States authority.
Without pursuing thd subject further, we conclude with expressing our opinion, that this last ground of removal, like
those already considered, was insufficient.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of New York is
Affirmed.

EX PARTE REGGEL.
APPEAL FROM THE THIRD JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE TERRITORY
OF UTAH.
Submitted April 15, 1885.-Decidedlay 4,1885.

The statute requiring the surrender of a fugitive from justice, found in one of
the Territories, to the State in which he stands charged with treason,
felony, or other crime, embraces every offence known to the laws of the
demanding State, including misdemeanors.

EX PARTE REGGEL.
Statement of Facts.
Each State has the right to prescribe the forms of pleading and process to be
observed in its courts, in both civil and criminal cases, subject only to
those provisions of the national Constitution designed tor the protection of
life, liberty and property in all the States of the Union ; consequently, in
a case involving the surrender, under the act of Congress, of a fugitive
from justice, it may not be objected that the indictment is not framed'
according to the technical rules.of criminal pleading, if it conforms substantially to the laws of the demanding State.
Upon the executive of the State or Territory in which the accused is found
rests the responsibility of determining whether he is a fugitive from the
justice of the demanding State. But the act of Congress does not direct
his surrender, unless it is made to appear that he is, in fact, a fugitive
from justice.
If the determination of that fact, upon proof before the executive of the State
where the alleged fugitive is found, is subject to judicial review upon habeas corpus, the accused, being in custody under his warrant-which recites
the requisition of the demanding State, accompanied by an authentic indictment, charging him substantially-as required by its laws with a specific
crime committed within its jurisdiction-should not be discharged. because, in the judgment of the court; the proof showing that he was a fugitive from justice may not be as full as might properly have been required.

This was an appeal from the judgment upon habeas corpus,
of the Third Judicial District Court of Utah, remanding the
appellant to the custody of the marshal of the United States,
by whom he had been arrested.
The arrest was made under the authority of a warrant of
the governor of Utah, which recited that it bad been represented by the governor of Pennsylvania'that Louis Reggel
stood charged in that Commonwealth with the crime of obtaining goods by false pretences from Daniel Myers and Charles
Goodman; that he had fled from the justice of that Commonwealth; and had taken refuge in the Territory of Utah. It
then proceeded:
"And whereas said representation and demand are accom-.
panied by an indictment found against said Reggel by the
grand inquest of the said State of Pennsylvania inquiring for
the City and County of Philadelphia, in and before the Court of
Quarter Sessions of the Peace for the said City and County of
Philadelphia, March sessions, 1882, whereby said Louis Reggel
is'charged with the said crime, and an affidavit taken before a
notary public of said State showing said Reggers flight from

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statemei t of Facts.

said State to and refuge in said Territory, and also the statute
laws of said State defining and making said acts of said Reggel
a crime, and which said indictment, affidavit, and laws are certified by said governor of Pennsylvania to be duly authenticated. You are, therefore, required to arrest the said Louis
Reggel," &c.
The evidence laid before the governor of Utah was entirely
documentary, and embraced the following papers:
1. The requisition, in the customary form, of the governor
of Pennsylvania, requesting the apprehension of Reggel, and.
his delivery to the agent of Pennsylvania, and to which was
annexed a copy of the indictment, and other papers, certified
by him to be authentic.
2. A duly certified copy of the indictment referred to in the
foregoing requisition, as follows:
"In the Court of Quarter Sessions of the Peace for the City
and County of Philadelphia. March Sessions, 1882.
CITY AND COUNTY

OF PHILADELPHIA, 88:

The grand inquest of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
inquiring for the city and county of Philadelphia, upon their
respective oaths and affirmations, do present Louis Reggel,
late of said county, on the thirteenth day of August, in the
year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighty-one,
at the county aforesaid, and within the jurisdiction of this
court, unlawfully and wilfully devising and intending to cheat
and defraud D~niel Myers and Charles Goodman of their
goods, moneys, chattels, and property, unlawfully did falsely
and designedly pretend to the said Daniel Myers and Charles
Goodman that he, the said Louis Reggel, was then and there
the owner in his own right of a large stock of goods in his
business as a merchant of Salt Lake City, in the Territory of
Utah, of the value of thirty-five thousand dollars, and that he
did not then and there owe to any person a single dollar on
account of said goods and merchandise, or for money borrowed,
and also then and there unlawfully did falsely and designedly
pretend to the said Daniel Myers and Charles Goodman that
he was then and there the owner in his own right of a certain

EX PARTE REGGEL.
Statement of Facts.

lot of ground, containing thereon a store building, wherein he
carried on his business, at Salt Lake City, in the Territory of
Utah; and that he was also then and there the owner in his
own right of a certain other lot of ground, containing thereoil
a certain dwelling-house, wherein he then and there resided at
Salt Lake City, in the Territory- of Utah; and he, the said
Louis Reggel, then and there unlawfully and falsely pretended
to said Daniel Myers and Charles Goodman that said two houses
and two lots were theit and there together of the value of forty
thousand dollars; and that said two. lots and their improvements were then and there free from all incumbrance; whereas
in truth and in fact the said Louis Reggel was not then and
there the owner in his own right of goods and merchandise in
his business of the value of thirty-five thousand dollars, at Salt
Lake City, in the Territory of Utah, all paid for and free of
debt, for money borrowed, the said Louis IReggel being then
and there in the possession of and owner of a stock of goods
and merchandise in his business at Salt Lake City, in the Territory of Utah, of the value of only about six thousand dollars,
instead of the value of thirty-five thousand dollars, as then
and there unlawfully, falsely, and desigrfedly pretended by,
him, the said Louis Reggel; and the said Louis iReggel was
then and there indebted in the'sum of $3,500 to the bankinghouse of McCormick and Company, at Salt Lake City, in-the
Territory of Utah, for money drawn from said banking-house,
and whereas in truth and in fact the said Louis :Reggel was not
then and there the' owner in his own right of a certain lot of
ground, containing thereon a storebuilding, wherein he then and
there carried on his business at Salt Lake City, in the Territory
of Utah, and a certain other 16t of ground, containing thereon
a dwelling-house, wherein he then and there resided at Salt
.Lake City aforesaid, together of the value of forty thoasand
dollars, clear of all incumbrances; that the said two lots of
ground and the improvements and appurtenances thereunto
belonging, were, by the said Louis IReggel, on the fourteenth
day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight
hundred and eighty, by deed duly recorded in the office for the
recording of deeds for Salt Lake county, in the Territory of

OCTOBER TERM, l8 4.
Statement of Facts.

Utah, granted, sold," conveyed, And confirmed unto Robert
Harkness and L. R. Jones, of said Salt Lake City, in the
Territory of Utah, and the title to the said two lots of ground
and improvements and appurtenances thereunto belonging
was, at the time of the making of said unlawful, false and
fraudulent pretences by the said Louis Reggel, at the county
aforesaid, in the said Robert Harkness and the said I. R.
Jones, and not in ,the said Louis Reggel; and the said Louis
lReggel then and there well knew the said pretences to be unlawful, fraudulent, and false. Whereupon the said Daniel
Myers and Charles Goodman, believing the said false representations and pretences then and there made by the said Louis
Reggel, gold and delivered to the said Louis Reggel, on a
credit of four months [here follows a description and statement of the value of said goods, chattels and property alleged
to have been obtained under false pretences]; which said
goods and chattels and property the said Louis Reggel did
then and there unlawfully obtain from the said Daniel Myers
and Charles Goodman, with intent to cheat and defraud the
said Daniel Myers and Cfiarles Goodman, to the great damage
of the said Daniel Myers and Charles Goodman, contrary to
the form of the act of the General Assembly in such case
made and provided, and against the peace and dignity of the
Commonwealth of -Pennsylvania.
GicoRGE S. GRAiAM,

-DistrietAttorn."
3. Duly certified copies of certain provisions of the penal
laws of Pennsylvania, as follows:
"Every indictment shall be deemed and adjudged sufficient
and good in law which charges the crime substantially in the
language of the act of the assembly prohibiting the crime and
prescribing the punishment, if any such there be, or, if at common law so plainly that the nature of the offence.charged may
be easily understood by'the jury, every objection to any indictment for any formal- defect apparent on the face thereof
shall be taken by demurrer or on motion to quash such indict-

EX PARTE REGGEL.
Statement of Facts.

,ment before the jury shall be sworn, and not afterward; and
every court before whom any such objection shall be taken for
any formal defect may, if it be thought necessary, cause the
indictment to be forthwith amended in such particular by the
clerk or other officer of the court, and thereupon the trial shall
proceed as if no such defect appeared." 1 Brightly's Purdon's
Dig. 347-8; Act of March 31, 1860.
"If any person shall by any false pretence obtain the signal
ture of any person to any written instrument, or shall obtain
from any other person any other chattel, money, or valuable
security, with intent to cheat and defraud any.person of the
same, every such offender shall be guilty, of a misdemeanor,
and on conviction be sentenced to pay a fine not exceeding five
hundred dollars and undergo an imprisonment not exceeding
three years: Provided,a7ways, That if upon the trial of any
person indicted for such misdemeanor it shall be proved that
he obtained the property in question in such a manner as to
amount in law to larceny, he shall not by reason thereof be'
entitled to be acquitted of such misdemeanor, and no person
tried for such misdemeanor shall be liable to be afterwards
prosecuted for larceny upon the same facts." Ibid. 347-8;
Act of March 31, 1860.
4. An affidavit by Frederick Gentner,'as follows:
"COMMONWEALTH

OF PENNA. V.

Louis IREGGEL.

Frederick Gentner, being duly sworn according to law, deposes and says: The grand jury of the March Sessions of the
City and County of Philadelphia found a true bill of indictment
against Louis Reggel, charging him with the crime of false
pretences, and that the said Louis Reggel is a fugitive from
justice, and now in Salt Lake City, Utah Territory.
FREDERiCE GENTNER.

:Sworn to and subscribed to this 10th day of April,
Seal of Court Quarter Ses-

A.D. 1882.

ALLISON HENNEsEY,

sions, County Philaftelphia
Endorsed: Commonwealth v. Louis Reggel."

T
yer ckhrk.

'618

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinipn of the Court.

The foregoing constituted the evidence submitted to the Gov.ernor of Utah, on which his warrant for the arrest of appellant was granted.
From the order denying the application of the petitioner to
be discharged and remanding him to the custody of the marshal, an appeal was allowed and perfected-the petitioner,
pending the appeal, being plaqed under bond to surrender himself in. execution of the judgment, if it should be affirmed,
modified, or dismissed, and obey all orders made herein by this
court.
Mir. Ar 1ur Brown for petitioner.
MR. JusTiCE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court. He
stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
This case arises under §§ 5278 and 5279 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, which provide:
"SEo. 5278., Whenever the executive authority of any State or
Territory demands any person as a fugitive from justice of the
executive authority of any State or Territory to -which such
person has fled, and produces a copy of an indictment found
or affidavit made before a magistrate of any State or Territory,
charging the person demanded with having committed treason,
felony, or other crime, certified as authentic by the -governor
or chief magistrate of the State or Territory from whence the
person -so charged has fled, it shall be the duty of the executive
authority of the State or Territory to which such person has
fled to cause him to be arrested and secured, -and to cause
notice of the arrest to be given to the executive authority
making such demand, or to the agent of such authority appointed to receive the fugitive, and to cause the fugitive to be
delivered, to such agent -when he shall appear. If no such
agent appears within six months fromi the time of the arrest,
the prisoner may be discharged. All costs or expenses incurred in the apprehending, securing, and transmitting such
fugitive to the State or Territory making such demand shall b6
paid by such State or Territory.
I "SEC. 5279. Any agent, so appointed, who receives the fugi-

EX PARTE REGGEL.

.61:9

Opinion of the Court.

tive into his custody, shall be empowered to transport him to
the State or Territory from which he, has fled. And every
person who, by force, sets at liberty or rescues the fugitive from
such agent while so transporting him, shall .be fined not more
than five hundred dollars, or imprisoned not more than one
year." 1 Stat. 302, ch. 7, § 1, 2.
It is not necessary to consider the question suggested by.
counsel as to the right of the governor of the Territory to
have withheld the papers upon which he based his warrant for
the arrest of the accused; for, the record shows that the requisition and the accompanying papers from the governor of Pennsylvania constituted the evidence upon which he acted, and
were submitted to the court to which the writ of habeas corpus
-wasreturned.
Under the act of Congress, it became the duty of the govrnor of Utah to cause the arrest of Reggel, and his delivery
to the agent appointed to receive him, when it appeared: 1.
That the demand by the executive authority of Pennsylvania
was accompanied by a copy of an indictment, or affidavit made
before a magistrate, charging Reggel with having committed
treason, felony, or other crime within that State, and, certified
as authentic by her Governor. 2. That the person demanded
was a fugitive from justice.
The first of these 'conditions was met by the production to
the governor of Utah of the indictment. (duly certified as authentic) of the grand jury of the Court of Quarter Sessions of
the Peace for the City and County of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, wherein the accused was charged with having committed
the crime of obtaining by false pretences certain goods with the
intent to cheat and defraud the persons therein named; which
offence, as 'was made to appear from the statutes of that
Commonwealth (a copy of which, duly certified as authentic,
accompanied the indictment), is a misdemeanor under the laws
of: Pounsylvania, punishable by a fine not exceeding $500, anA
imprisonment not exceeding three years.
It was objected in the court of original jurisdiction, that
there could be no 'valid requisition based upon an indictment
for an offence less than a felony.' This view is erroneous. It

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

was declared in ifentucky v. Dennison, 24 How. 66, 99, that
the words "treason, felony, or other crime" in section 2 of
Article I. of the Constitution include every offence, from the
highest to the lowest, known to the law of the State from which
the. accused had fled, including misdemeanors. It was there
said by Chief Justice Taney, speaking for the whole court, that,
looking to the words of the Constitution, "to the obvious policy and necessity of this provision to preserve harmony between
the States and order and law within their respective borders,
and to its early adoption by the Colonies, and then by the Confederate States whose mutual interest it was to give each other
aid and support whenever it was needed, the conclusion is irresistible, that this compact engrafted in the Constitution
included, and was intended to include, every offence made
punishable by the law of the State in which it was committed."
It is within the power of each State, except as her authoritk
may be limited by the Constitution of the United States, to
declare what shall be offences against her laws, and citizens of
other States, when within her jurisdiction, are subject to those
laws. In recognition of this right, so reserved to the States,
the words of the clause in reference to fugitives from justice
were made sufficiently comprehensive to include every offence
against the laws of the demanding State, without exception as
to the nature of the crime.
Although the Constitutional provision in question does not.
in terms, refer to fugitives from the justice of any State, who
may be found in one of the Territories of the United States,
the act of Congress has equal application to that class of cases,
and the words "treason, felony, or other crime," must receive
the same interpretation, when the demand for the fugitive is
made, under that act, upon the governor of a Territory, as
when made upon the executive authority of one of the States
of the Union.
Another proposition advanced in behalf of appellant is, that
the indictment which accompanied the requisition does not
sufficiently charge the commission of any crime; of wjiich
fact it was the duty of the governor of Utah to take notice,
and which the court may not ignore in determining-whether

EX PARTE REGGEL.

-651"

Opinion of the Court.

the appellant is lawfully in custody. In connection with this
proposition, counsel "discusses, in the light of the adjudged
cases, the general question as to the authority of-a court of
the State or Territory, in which the fugitive is found, to discharge him from arrest, whenever in its judgment, the indictment, according to the technical rules of criminal pleading,
isdefective in its statement of the crime charged. It is sufficient for the purposes of the present case to say that, by the
laws of Pennsylvania, every indictment is to be deemed and
adjudged sufficient and good in law which charges the crime
substantially in the language of the act of assembly prohibiting
its commission and prescribing the punishment therefor, or, if
at common law, so plainly that the nature of the offence
charged may be easily understood by the jury; and, that the
indictment, which-accompanied the requisition of the governor
of Pennsylvania, does charge the crime substantially in the
language of her statute. That Cormnonwealth has the right
to establish the forms of pleadings and process t6 be observed
in her own courts, in both civil and criminal cases, subject only
to those provisions of the Constitution of the United States involving the protection of life, liberty and property in all the
States of the Union.
The only question remaining to 'be considered, relates to the
alleged want of competent evidence before the governor" of
Utah, at the time he issued the warrant of arrest, to prove
that the appellant was a fugitive from the justice of, Pennsylvania. Undoubtedly, the act of Congress did not impose
upon the executive authority of the Territory the duty of surrendering the appellant, unless it was made to appear, in some
proper way, that he was a fugitive from justice. In other
words, the appellant was entitled, under the act of Congress,
to insist upon proof that he was within the demanding State at
the time he is alleged to have committed the crime cbarged,
and subsequently withdrew from her jurisdiction, so that he
could not be reached by her criminal process. The statute, it
is to be observed, does not prescribe the character of such
proof; but that the executive authority of the Territory was
not required, by the act of Congress, to cause the arrest of ap-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

pellant, and his delivery to, the agent appointed by the gov'
ernor of Pennsylvania, without proof of the fact that he wasa
fugitive from justice, is, in our judgment, clear from the language of that act. Any other interpretation would lead to the
conclusion that the mere requisition by the executive of the
demanding State, accompanied by the copy of an indictment,
or an affidavit before. a magistrhte, certified by him to be
authentic, charging the accused with crime committed within
her limits, imposes upon the executive of the State or Territory where the accused is found, the duty of surrendering
him, although he may be satisfied, from incontestable proof,
that the accused had, in fact, never been in the demanding
State, and, therefore, could not be said to have fled from its
justice. Upon the executive of the State in which the accused
is found, rests the responsibility of determining, in some legal
mode, whether he is a fugitive from the justice of the demanding State. He does not fail in duty if he makes it a condition
precedent to the surrender of the accused that it be shown to
him, by competent proof, that the accused is, in fact, a fugitive
from the justice of the demanding State.
Did. it sufficiently appear that the appellant was, as represented by the executive authority of Pennsylvania, a fugitive
from the justice of that Commonwealth ? We are not justified
'by the'record before us in saying that the governor of Utah
should have held the evidence inadequate to establish that fact.
The warrant. of arrest refers to an affidavit taken before a
notary public of Pennsylvania showing iReggel's flight from that
CQmmonwealth. There was no such affidavit; but the reference, manifestly, was to the affidavit made by Frederick
Gentner, which recited the finding by the grand jury of the
City and County of Philadelphia, of a true bill of indictment
charging Reggel with "the crime of false pretences," and stating that he "is a fugitive from justice," and was then in Salt
Lake City, Utah Territory. This is sworn to, and is attested
-by the seal of the Court of Quarter Sessions-the court in
which the prosecution is pending. It is not entirely clear from
the record, as presented to us, what is the official character of
the person before whom the affidavit was made. The reason-

EX PARTE REGGEL.'
Opinion of the 'Court.

able inference is, that the affidavit was made in the court
where the prosecution is pending, and that it is one of the papers
accompanying the requisition of the governor of Pennsylvania,
and which he certified to be authentic.
It is contended that Gentner's affidavit that Reggel is a
fugitive from justice is the statement of a legal conclusion, and
is materially defective in not setting out the facts upon which
that conclusion rested. Although that statement presents, in
some aspects of it, a question of law, we cannot say that the
governor of Utah erred in regarding it as the statem6nt of a fact,
and as sufficient evidence that appellant had fled from the'
State in which he stood charged with the commission of .a p'articular crime, on a named day, at the City and County of Philadelphia; especially, as no opposing evidence was brought t6
his attention. If the determination of that fact by the governor of Utah upon evidence introduced before him, is subject to judicial review, upon habeas corpus, the accused, in
custody, under his warrant-which recites the demand of the
governor of Pennsylvania, accompanied by an authentic indictment charging him, substantially in the language of her
statutes, with a specific crime committed within her limitsshould not be discharged merely because, in the judgment of
the court, the evidence as to his being a fugitive from justice
was not as full as might properly have been required, or because it was so meagre as, perhaps, to admit of a conclusion
different from that reached by him. In the present case, the
proof before the governor of Utah may be deemed sufficient
to make a2rima facie case against the appellant as a fugitive
from justice within the meaning of the act of Congress.
Judgment afflrmed.

