OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

the debt to Doe the securities which Doe had delivered to the
assignee, amounted to nothing, because such a claim could not
be litigated in that suit. It was not a set-off or counter-claim
to any relief sought by the assignee in that suit. The cause of
action in regard to the securities delivered to the assignee by
Doe accrued to Doe at the time of such delivery. It did not
depend upon or arise from the existence or ascertainment .of
any deficiency of the other securities to meet the debt. If Doe
was entitled at all to have the securities which were delivgred to
the assignee applied to his debt, he was, on the showing of
the bill, as much entitled to have them so applied as to have
the other securities so applid, and as much entitled to their
possession for that purpose as to the possession of the other
securities. His right of action to that effect accrued, therefore, when the assignee came into the possession of the securities,
on.their delivery to him by Doe.
Decree a/firmed.

BISSELL v. FOSS & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE cIRCurr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Argued March 11, 12, 18&5.-Decided April 6, 1886.

There is no relation of trust or confidence between mining partners, which is
violated by the sale and assignment by one partner of his share in the company assets and business to one or more of his associates, without the
knowledge of the other associates.
The record in this case discloses no equitable reason why the defendants in
error, who purchased the intetest of third parties in a mine in which all
were jointly interested with the plaintiff in error, should be held bound to
share with the.plaintiff in error the interest so purchased.

This was a suit in equity. The facts which make the case
are stated in the opinion of the court.
. Joltn F. Dillon [3fr. Z. C. Rockwell was with him on
the brief] for appellant.

BISSELL v. FOSS.
Opinion of the Court.

Xr. -David . Dyer for appellee.
WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a suit in equity. The facts as they appeared by the
pleadings and evidence were as follows: In January, 1878, two
miners, named Davidson and Vanboxall, located a mining claim
near Leadville, Colorado, which they called the Winnemuck. In
March following they jointly conveyed to the appellant Bissell,
and to the appellees Foss and Hunter, each a one-fourth interest
in the property in consideration of their agreement to furnish
money to -sink a shaft to the ores on the claim. These parties
worked the mine as mining partiers until July, 1878, when
Davidson and Boxall, with the consent of their associates, sold
their one-fourth to three persons, Rawlings, 1landley and Rbbertson, called in the record "The Missourians," who with
Biss.ll, Foss and Hunter continued the working :of the
mine.
Tabor and Reische, who owned and worked a mine adjoining
the Winnemuck on an alleged title not necessary to state,
.claimed the ore from the Winnemuck mine, and instituted from
time to time, attachment proceedings by which they seized the
ore as it was taken from the mine. The associates who were
working ihe Winnemuck mine procured the release of the ore.
by giving forthcoming bonds, with one Halleck as security,
who signed the bonds on condition that the money arising from
the sale of the ore should be placed and kept in bank as an
indemnity to him until the ownership of the ore could be settled. On this understanding the proceeds of the sale of the ore
were deposited in the Miners' Eichange Bank of Leadville.
In Aug ast or September, 1878, the owners of the Winnemuck,
Bissell,. Foss, Hunter, and the Missourians, having received
from the sale of ore, money more than sufficient to indemnify
Halleck, with the surplus bought and paid for an interest in
the N~ew Discovery lode. About October 1, 1878, they had
on deposit to their credit in the bank $16,000, and Halleck was
bound for them to the amount of $12,000.
In the latter part of September the Missourians offered for sale
,heir one-fourth interest in the mines." Bissell and Foss were
AIRh. JUSTICE

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

anxious lest the interest of the Missourians should fall into the
hands of Tabor and Reische, who might thereby gain some
advantage in their suits then pending. They had a conversation in reference to the purchase of the interest of the Missourians. - They differ in their account of this conversation. It is
thus detailed by Bissell:
"Along aboutthe 30th day of September Mr. Foss came to my
room and stated that the Missourians, as we termed them, were
wanting to sell their quarter interest in the property, and had
offered it for $30,000, and he said that he thought we had better
go in and buy it. I said to him that it was all well enough to
buy it, if they wanted to sell, but that I was confident that I
could get it at better figures. I said, 'I am almost certain, Mr.
Foss, that I can buy it for less; let me manage it and I think
I can buy it for $15,000,' and went on to say what I would say
to them concerning all the trouble and suits in the case. He
said, 'Very well, if you can get it for that so much the better.'
It was an agreement and understanding between us, that if
we could get it for $15,000 we were to take it."
He further stated in reference to the same interview:
"We sat down there and made figures to see if we could pay
for it out of the money belonging to the company in bank ; and
the result of our figuring was, that we couldn't do it to the full
extent; 'that we could pay a portion of it from that money, and
the baiance outside, each of us raise our share."
In answer to the question, who were to have the interests in
the quarter to be purchased of the Missourians, he said: "They
were to go between us three, Trimble and Hunter, Foss and
myself. Mr. Trimble and Hunter's were interests together;
they owned jointly that quarter interest, so I was informed by
Mr. Trimble and Mr. Hunter."
Foss gave the following account of his interviews with lBissell in reference tv their project to buy out the Missourians:
"I met Dr. lBissell over Tribe and Jeffrey's store, in Leadville, and we talked the purchase over. I told him that the
boys wanted to get out bad, and I thought they would sell
pretty reasonable; .but that as I was working about there
managing the mine, he could do better than I could. I said

BISSELL v. FOSS.
Opinion of the Court.

he had mentioned to us one night on the street $30,000 as a
price, but that we wouldn't agree to fot a moment. We wondered how we could. do about the money for'the'purchase. If
we could use the company money, we thought we must use a
little more than our joint interest. Bissell was to see the boys
in regard to'it."
In answer to the question, "what was said about the price?"
he replied:
"We talked the amount; $20,000 was spoken of. He
thought that was too high and more than we should give. I
thought so too, but $30,000 was the price fixed by them. That
I wouldn't think of for a moment. We figured it over, but I
don't remember the exact figures, and we concluded that at
$15,000 we could pay for it, in case we could draw- out the
money in the Exchange Bank. Dr. Bissell.thought it could be
bought for less than $10,000. There was. no proposition made
for any definite price, but if we could buy the property We
were to buy it together. He was to see what was the best he
could dQ with it."
He was then asked to state "whether there was, up to the
time you concluded the trade'with ilandley, any agreement
with Dr. Bissell that you and he should buy that property for
$15,000;" to which he replied, '5No, sir."
,After these conversations between Bissell and Foss, Foss
and Hunter, early in October, 1878, purchased of the-Missourians for $15,000 their interest in the Winnemuck and New
Discovery Mines, ind in the money of the associates on dethe
posit in the Exchange Bank. The purchase was' made in.
name of Foss, but it was agreed between him and Hunter that
Hunter was to have two-thirds and Foss one-third of the share.
The money to pay for the share was all advanced by Hunter,,
Foss agreeing to ieimburse Hunter the one-third. In order to
induce the Missourians to sell at $15,000, Hunter declared to
them that he was willing to sell- his fourth to Foss for that
sum, and actually made a 'pretended sale hnd conveyance 'to
Foss at that price.
Bissell was not informed of the negotiitions for the sale
and purchase while they.were going on,'and Foss requested

OCTOBER TERM, 18s4.
Opinion. of the Court.

Handley, the one of the Missourians with whom he treated
for the purchase, not to tell Bissell of the sale.,
After the purchase was completed Foss denied the right
of Bissell to a one-third share of the interest sold by the Missourians.
Matters thus remained until November 16, 1-78, when the
Tabor party on one side, and Foss, Bissell and Hunter on the
other, joined in a conveyance of their interests to B. M. Hughes,
as trustee, to hold seventy-three out of one hundred equal
shares for the Tabor party, and twenty-seven for Bissell, Foss
and Hunter; and, by agreement, the mines were to be worked
and the moneys made deposited in the First National Bank of
Denver, one of the appellees, and credited to the two parties
in the proportions above stated. On April 2, 1879, there was
on deposit in the bank to the credit of Foss, Bissell- and Hunter $92,502.58. It was in reference to the division of ihis fund
that this litigation arose.
If there had been no purchase of the interest of the Missourians, Bissell; Foss and Hunter would each have owned
three-twelfths of this fund. But Bissell, insisting that he was
entitled to one-third of the one-fourth interest purchased of the
Missourians, claimed four-twelfths. Foss and Hunter. insisting
that Bissell had no interest in the share purchased of the Missourians, contended that he was only entitlgd to three-twelfths
of the fund, and they jointly to nine-twelfths.
. Thereupon Foss and Hunter, on April 26, 1879, brought the
present suit in equity against the First National- Bank of Denver as the depositary, and against Bissell as the adverse.claimant; to recover nine-twelfths of the fund. The bank answered
the bill and at the same time filed a cross-bill, in which it alleged that it was merely a stakeholder, claiming no interest in
the fund; and praying that Foss, Hunter and Bissell might be
required to interplead. Bissell answered both the original and
cross-bills, claiming four-twelfths of the sum.
The sum in dispute between the: parties seems to have increased after the filing of the original bill, and before final
decree amounted to $36,454.35. This sum, by agreement. of
bhe parties, was deposited in the registry of the court, and they

BISSELL v. FOSS.
Opinion of the Court.

stipulated that the decision'of the court should settle* their
rights, not only to the fund claiiiaed in the original bill, but to
the whole amount in the registry of the court.
On final hearing, the Circuit Court decreed "that Foss and
Hunter were entitled to the $36,451.35 in controversy in the
registry of the court, and that it be paid to them." From this
decree- Bissell appealed.
It is clear'that the" appellant had no claim to the fund in
controversy, unless he had some title, legal or equitable, to the
property which produced it. But he was not a party to the
purchase-of the property by Foss and Hunter. The Missourians, who owned the property, never bargained with Bissell to
sell him any interest in their share, and never conveyed to him
any interest in it. They contracted with Foss and Hunter only.
Bissell never paid any part of the purchase money. It was
paid exclusi ,ely by .Foss and Hunter. His title, if he has any,
is not based on any contract of purchase made with the Missourians, nor on any contract .or understanding between him
and Hunter. He bases his claim on th6 conversation and
agreement between himself and Foss. 'This agreement, as
stated by Bissell, was that Bissell and Foss should buy out the
Missourians, for the benefit of themselves and Hunter, and
divide the share equ'ally -between the three, aid that each
should pay one-third of the purchase-money. According to
Bissell's own version, the arrangement was based on'the expectation that a large part of the purchase-money could be paid
out of the deposit 'of the parties in the bank. But the evidence
shows' that the money which they were at liberty to draw
from the 'bank would pay -less than one-third of the price at
which the purchase was made., Foss testifies that all his indi'vidugl resources consisted of a small grocery store not paying
much, and that he "was just living in the hope of beating
Tabor."
Looking-at all the testimony it is impossible to reach the
conclusion, unless w' disre.gard-altogether the evdence of Foss
and rely entirely on that of- Bissell, that there was any welldefined. agreement bet.weeh them to 'buy out the Missourians
at a specified price, or that .the two had available resources to
o'L. cxlv-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

make the purchase. Nothing but-an arrangement left at loose
ends can be deduced from the e?idence. But if the agreement
had been clear and definite, it could bind neither Foss nor Bis-sell until Hunter was consulted and agreed to it. If Hunter
declined, the matter was at an end, and there was no obligation
on either Foss or Bissell to purchase for themselves or themselves and Hunter.
The record shows, and counsel for Bissell contend, that Foss
told Hunter about the arrangement, in reference t6 the purchase, between himself and Bissell. There is no proof that
Hunter assented to the arrangement made between Foss and
Bissell. It is clear that he did not assent, for he made a different arrangement with Foss, by which he was to purchase
'and pay for two-thirds of the share of the Missourians, and
Foss the other third, and by which. he was to advance all the
money to make the purchase, leaving the funds of the associates on deposit in the Miners' Exchange Bank untouched. It
is plain, therefore, that the project of Foss and Bissell for the
purchase, for the joint benefit of. themnselves and Hunter, of
the share of the Missourians, fell through. It could not be carried 'out without the assent of Hunter, and he did not assent.
To show the fraudulent conduct of Foss and Hunter, stress
is laid by counsel for the appellant on the fact that they deceived the Missourians by the pretence that Hunter was willing
to sell, and that he did actually sell his one-fourth to Foss for
$15,000, and thus induced them to sell at the same price. But
as the Missourians were the only persons injured by this stratagem, if any one was injured, and they do not complain, we do
not see how it concerns the appellant. The device by which
Foss and Hunter made the purchase at $15,000 did not add to
or detract from the rights of the appellant. And, as he is seeking to get the benefit of the contract thus fraudulently made,
as he alleges, it does not lie in his mouth to complainof a -fraud
of which he is seeking to share the fruits.
Bissell had no ground upon which he could base any contract right to an interest in the purchase made by Foss for
himself and Hunter. He paid no money on the purchase, and
he could not have been compelled to pay any, either by the

BISSELL v. FOSS.
Opinion of the Court.
M1issourians with whom he had no contract,- or by-Foss, who,
after Hunter had declined to acquiesce in the arrangement
between Bissell and himself, could not have demanded of Bissell that he and Foss should buy foi themselves. And if Foss
had actually bought for himself and Bissell he could not have
compelled the latter to pay his half of the purchase money, for
Bissell had never agreed to such a purchase. The agreement
could not bind Foss unless it also bound Bissel.
Bissell therefore did not, by reasoh of his'agreement with Foss, acquire
any interest in the share purchased by Foss and Hunter of the
M issouridns.
But the appellant insists that there was a mutual agreement
.betwden Bissell and Foss that if either made the purchase it
should be for the benefit of all, and that this agreement, although not amounting to a contract which could be specifically
enforced if it had been made with a stranger, created between
parties who sustained to each other the confidential and trust
relations which existed between these parties a constructive
trust which would be enforced in equity.
The contention is that these three parties -were in such relations to each other that, if one bought a share in the common
property and business, it enured in equity to the benefit of all,
subject to the payment by each of the associates of his share
of' the purchase money. The relations from which this result
springs are stated to be those, first, of joint tenants, and,
second, of partners; and that, by reason of these relations,
Foss and Hunter became trustees for themselves.and Bissell in
purchasing the share of the Missourians.
It is true that one of two or more tenants in common, holding by a conimon title;cannot purchase an outstanding title or
incumbrance upon'the joint estate for his own benefit. Such a
purchase enures to the b6nefit of all, because there is an obligation between them, resulting from their joint claim and communityof interest, that one of .them shall not affect the claim
to the prejudice. of the others. .Rotkwell v. Dewees, 2 Black,'
613; Van Horne v. .Fonda,5 Johns..Oh. 388; Lloyd v. -Lynch,
28 Penn. St. 410; -Downerv. 8*mth, 38 Vt. 464.'
But this. rule cannot apply to Hunter and Foss. They

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

purchased no outstanding title or incumbrance to the prejudice
of the other tenant in common. They did what any tenant in
common with entire good faith might do, namely, purchased
the interest of some of their co-tenants without consulting the
others. The title which they purchased of the Missourians was
not antagonistic or hostile to the title of Bissell. Their
,purchase did not in any degree tend to injure or damage his
interest. His share was just as valuable after as before the
purchase, and his rights werethe same. In such a purchase no
trust or confidence is violated.
Nor do we think that the relations of the parties as partners
prohibited Foss and Hunter from making the purchase in question for their own benefit to the exclusion of Bissell. The association of Bissell, Foss, Hunter and the Missourians was not
an ordinary partnership. It was what is known as a mining
partnership, which is a partnership &ubmodo only, and is thus
described by Mr. Justice Field in Kahn v. Smelting Co., 102
U. S. 641:
I"Mining partnerships, as distinct associations, with different
rights and liabilities attaching to their members, from those attaching to members of ordinary trading partnerships, exist in
all mining communities; indeed, without them successful mining would be attended with difficulties and embarrassments
much greater than at present." He then quotes a -passage
from the opinion in SWkliman v. lo kman, 23 Cal. 199, 203, to
the effect that a mining partnership is governed by many of
the rules relating to ordinary partnerships, but also by some
rules peculiar to itself, one of which is, that one person may
convey his interest in the mine and business without dissolving the partnership, and then proceeds as follows: "The samedoctrine is asserted in numerous other cases, not only in that
court, but in the courts of England. Associations for working
mines are generally composed of a greater number 6f persons
than ordinary trading partnerships; and it ivas early seen that
the continuous working of a mine, which is essential to its successful development, would be impossible, or, at least, attended
with great difficulties, if an association was to be dissolved
by the death or bankruptcy of one of its members, or the asi

BISSELL v. FOSS.

/ 261

Opinion of the Court.

signment- of his interest. A different rule from that which
governs the relations of members of a trading partnership to
each other was, therefore, recognized as applicable to the relations to each other of members of a mining association. The
delectus _personae, which is essential to constitute an ordinary'
partnership, has no place in these mining associations. Duryea
v. Burt, 28 Cal. 569; Settembre v. Putnam,80 Cal. 490; Taylor v. Castle, 42 Cal. 36."
This case settles two, propositions: first, that the members of
a mining association *haveno right to object to the admission
of a stranger into the association who buys the share of one of'
the associates; and, second, that the sale and assignment by
one of the associates of his interest does not dissolve the mining
partnership. It follows from these propositions, that one member of a mining partnership has the right, without -consulting
his associates, to sell his interest in the partnership to a stranger,
and that such a sale injures no right or property of the other
associates. Much. less does a purchase by one associate of the
share of another inflict any wrong upon the other members of
the partnership. There is no relation of trust or confidence
between. mining partners which is violated by the sale and
assignment by one partner to a stranger, or to one of the associate; of his share in the property and business of the association.
:It- results as a conclusion from these premises, that "Bissell
'has suffered no wrong at the hands of either Hunter or Foss,
on the ground that they were his tenants in common or partners, by reason of any contract made between the latter in
reference to the purchase of the share of the Missourians in
their joint enterprise. There has been no violation of any trust
and confidence arising from the relations, existing between
Bissell, Foss and Hunter.
The appellant,. it is therefore clear,,cannot demand any part
of the two-thirds interest purchased by Hunter in the share of
the Missouriafis; If he is entitled to participate in any way in
*the purchase made by Foss and Hunter, it can only be in the
one-third interest purchased by Foss. ' But this demand cannot
be based on any contract between Bissell and Foss, f6r the contract arrangement between them was conditioned upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

consent of Hunter, and Hunter did not consent. It was also
an element of the agreement, that the money of the associates
on deposit in the bank should be sufficient and should be available to pay a large part of the money required for the purchase
of the share of the Missourians. - But this condition also failed.
He*was, therefore, bound by no contract with Bissell to make
the purchase.
The only questi6n which remains is, was Foss bound, when
he learned that the arrangement he had made with Bissell for
the purchase of the share of the Missourians could -not be carried.
out, to inform Bissell of the fact, and give him a chance to join
in the purchase made by him and Hunter?. It cannot be denied
that, under the circumstances, there was an obligation on Foss
to inform Bissell of the failure of their plan before making
another with a third person. But it was not a legal obligation
capable of enforcement in fcrro exeteno, but only a natural
obligation to be disposed of in foro conscientice. Story Eq.
Jur., ยง 2. It was one of those obligations which was binding
on the honor and conscience of the party, but one not the subject of a suit and not to be enforced in a court of either law or
equity.
We are of opinion that the decree of the Circuit Court was
right. It is therefore
Mn. JUSTICE BRADLEY and MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS dissented.

BRADSTREET COMPANY v. HIGGINS.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Argued March -, 1885.-Decided Anuil 13, 1S85.

A defendant in error, on whose motion a writ of error is dismissed for want of
jurisdiction, may recover costs in this court which are incident to his
motion to dismiss.'

