MARTINSBURG & POTOMAC R.R. CO. v. MAItCH. 549
Statement of Facts.

MARTINSBURG & POTOMAC RAILROAD COMPANY
. MARCH.
IN ERROR 'TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
Argued April 24, 1865.-Decided May 4,1885.

A contract for the construction of a railroad provided that the company's en-

gineer should, in all cases, determine questions relating to its execution,
including the quantity of the seveial kinds of work to be done, and
the compensation earned by the ontractor at the rates specified ; that his

estimate should be final ana, conclusive; and that "whenever the contract

shall be completely pe)ormed on the part of the contractor, and the said

engineer shall certify the same in writing under his hand, together with
his estimate aforesaid, the said company shall, within thirty days after the
receipt of said certificate, pay to the said contractor, in current notes, the
sum which according to this contract shall be due:" Hfeld, That in the
absence of fraud, or inch gross mistake as would necessarily imply bad
faith, or a failure to exercise an honest judgment, the action of the engineer
in the premises was con clusive upoxi the parties.

.Kidbergv. United State8, 97 U. S. 398, and Swee .yvV. United States, 109
U. S. 618, affirmed and applied.
This was a suit at. law to recover a balance claimed to be
due the defendant in error as plaintiff below, for grading and
Iasonry on a section of the road of the plaintiff in error. The
contract, which was substantially set forth inthe declaration,
contained the following provisions, among others:
1. " o prevent all disputes, it is hereby mutually agreed
that the~said engineer shall, in all cases, determine the amount
or quantity of the several kinds of work which are to be paid
for under this contract, and the amount of compensation at the
rates herein provided for, and also that the said engineer shall in
all cases decide every question which can or may arise relative
to the execution of this contract on the part of said contractor,
and his estimate shall be final and conclusive."
2. "That whenever this contract shall be completely performed on the part of the'said contractor, the said engineer
shall certify the same in writing, under his hand, together with
his estimate as aforesaid, and the said company shall within,

OCTOBER TERM, 1S84.
Opinion of -the Court.

thirty days after the receipt of such certificate pay to the said
contractor, in current notes, the sum which according to this
contract shall be due."
The declaration not alleging that this had been done by the
engineer, the defendant demurred and the demurrer was overruled. The defendant also pleaded that the engineer had
,,nade a final estimate of the Niork done under the contract,
and that the amount found due had ISeen paid, and the plea
continued: "And so --the defendant saith, that the final estimate of the said engineer, made as aforesaid, was a final and
conclusive settlement of all that was due the plaintiff under
said contracts, and is a bar to any further inquiry into the execution of said contracts; and the payments made by this defendant in pursuanceof said final estimates as aforesaid are a
full payment and discharge of all that is due to the plaintiff
under said contracts."
- Sundry exceptions were taken at.the trial, which are referred
to' in the opinion of the court.- The substantial question involved in all, was the effect of the provisions in the contract
upon the plaintiff's right to recover. Judgment below for
plaintiff. The defendant sued out this writ of error.
Afr. WFayne fo Veagh for plaintiff in error.
No brief or argument for defendant in error.
MP_ JusrioE If L

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is within the principles announced in Zihlberg v.
United States, 97 U. S. 398, and Sweeney v. United States, 109
U. S. 618.
Kihlberg sued the United States upon a contract for the
transportation of military, Indian, and government stores and
supplies from points on the Kansas Pacific Railway to posts
and stations in certain 8tates and Territories. The contract
provided for payment for transportation "in all cases according to the distance from the place of ddparture to that of delivery, the distance to be ocertained and fixed by the chief
quartermaster of the district of New Mexico, and in no case

MARTINSBURG & POTOMAC R.R. CO. v. MARCH. 551
Opinion of the Court.
to exceed the distance by the usual and customary route." One
of the issues in that case was as to the authority of that officer
to fix, conclusively for the parties, the distances which should
govern in the settlement of the contractor's accounts for transportation. There was neither allegation nor proof of fraud or
bad faith upon the part of that officer in his discharge of the
duty imposed upon him by the mutual assent of the parties.
This court said: "In the absence of fraud or such gross mistake as would necessarily imply bad faith, or a failure to exercise an honest judgment, his action in the premises is conclusive
upon the appellant as well as upon the government."
This principle was affirmed and applied in Sweeney's case, in
which he sought to - recover from the United States the price
of a wall built by-him around a national cemetery. The contract provided that the wall should be received -and become
the property of the United States, after an officer or civil engineer, to be designated by the government to inspect the work,
should ceitify that it was in all respects such as the contractor
agreed to construct. The officer designated for that purpose
refused -to so certify, on the ground that neither the material
nor the workmanship was such as the contract required. As
the officer exercised an honest judgment in making his inspections, and. as there was, on his pait, neither fraud, nor such
gross mistake as implied bad, faith, it, was -adjudged that the
contradtor had no cause of action, on the contract, against the
United States.
Those decisions control the determination of the claim arising
out of the contract here in suit, whereby the defendant in
error, who was plaintiff below, covenanted and agreed that he
would furnish all the material required-which should be
sound, durable, and of good quality, and approved by the company's chief engineer-and perform all the labor necessary to
construct and finish, in every respeQt, in the most substantial
and workmanlike mannerthe grading and masonry of a certain section of the Martinsburg and Potomac Railroad.
The contract provides that, to prevent all disputes, the engineer of the company "shall, in all cases, determine" the
quantity of the several kinds of work to be paid for under the

OCTOBER TERM, 188.4.
Opinion of the Court.

contract, and the amount of compensation that the appellee
should earn at the rates therein specified; that he "shall, in all
cases," decide every question which can or may arise relative
to the execution of the contract, and "his estimate shall be
final and conclusive;" that in order to enable the contractor
to prosecute the work advantageously, the engineer "shall
make an estimate from time to time, not oftener than once per
month, as the work progresses, of the work done," for which
the company "will pay in current money within twenty per
cent. of the amount of said estimate on presentation;" that, in
calculating the quantity of masonry, walling, and excavation,
the most rigid geometrical rules should be applied, any custom
to the contrary notwithstanding; and that "whenever this
contract shall be wholly completed on the part of the said
contractor, and the said engineer shall have certfted the same,
they [the company] will pay for said work" the prices in the
contract named.
These stipulations were emphasized by this additional provision in the agreement:
"And it is fMrther agreed that whenever the contract shall
be completely performed on the part of the contractor, and the
said engineer shall certify the same in -writingunder his hand,
together with his estimate aforesaid,the said company shall,
within thirty days after the receipt of said certifcate,pay to the
said contractor, in current notes, the sum which according to
this contract shall be due."
The plaintiff in his declaration, which is in assumpsit, sets
out the written contract in full, and counts specially upon its
various provisions. The other count is the ordinary one of indebitatus assumpsit. A general demurrer by the company to
the whole declaration, and to each count, was overruled.
This action of the coprt below cannot be upheld without disregarding the express conditions of the written agreement;
for, it does not appear from the declaration that the engineer
ever certified in writing the complete performance of the contract by the plaintiff, together with an estimate of the work
done, and the amount of compensation due him according to
the prices established by the parties. Until after the expira.

MARTINSBURG & POTOMAC R.R. CO. v. MARCH. 553
Opinion of the Court.
tion of thirty days from the receipt of such a certificate, the
company did not, by the terms of the agreement, 'come under
a liability to pay. the plaintiff the balance, if any, due to him
under the contract. Nor does the declaration state any facts
entitling him to sue the company, on the contract, in the absence
of such a certificate by the engineer, whose determination was
made. by the parties final or conclugi-ve. And upon the supposition that the engineer made such a certificate as that provided by the contract, there is no allegation that entitled the
plaintiff to go behind it; for, there is no averment that the
engineer had been guilty of fraud, or had made such gross
mistake in his estimates as necessarily implied bad faith, or had
failed to exercise an honest judgment in discharging the duty
imposed upon him. The first count of the declaration Was,
therefore, defective for the want of proper averments showing
plaintiff's right to sue on the contract, and the demurrer to
that count should have been sustained:
As, for this reason, the case must be remanded for a new
trial, it is proper to say that, if the declaration had been good
on demurrer, we should have been compelled to reverse the
judgment for errors in the instructions given to the jury.
Several instructions were asked by the defendant embodying
the general proposition that the final estimate of the engineer
was to be, taken as' 'conclusive, unless it appeared.from the
evidence that, in-rest~ect thereto.he was guilty of fraud or intentional"misconduct. These -instrubtions were modified*by the
court by adding after the words "fraud or intentional misconduct" the words "or gross niiktake." This modification was'
well calculated to mislead the jury, for they were not informed'i
that the mistake must have been so gross, or of such a liature,,
as necessarily implied bad faith.6pon the part of the egine.er.
We are to presume fronr the terms of the contract that 'bth
parties considered'the pdssibility ?f disputes arising between
them in reference to the execution- of the contract. And! it is
to be presumed that in their minds was the possibility that the
engineer might err. in his determination of such matters. Consequently, to the end that the intdrests of neither party should
be put in peril by disputes as to auy of the matters covered by

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

their agreement, or in reference to the quantity of the work
to be done under it, or the compensation which the plaintiff
might be entitled to demand, it was expressly stipulated that
the engineer's determination should be final and conclusive.
Neither party reserved the, right to revise that determination
for mere errors or mistakes upon his part. They chose to risk
his estimates, and to rely upon their right, which the law presumes they did not intend to waive, to demand that the engineer
should, at all times, and in respect of every matter submitted to
his determination, exercise an honest judgment, and commit no
such mistakes as, under all the circumnstances, would imply
bad faith.
There is one other error in the instructions to which it is
proper to call attention.
The contract provided that for
"bridge masonry" the contractors should receive $7.00 per
perch of twenty-five cubic feet. In reference to certain pier
masonry, for which plaintiff charged, in his account, $14: per
perch, the court instructed the jury as follows:
"The jury are instructed that in respect to the item of 'pier
masonry,' and the charge of $14 per perch therefor by the
plaintiff, as shown in his estimate or bill of particulars, that if
they find that the defendant's chief engineer ordered such masonry to be made, and saw and inspected or examined the same
after its completion, and considered the same in his final estimate, and therein treated the said 'pier masonry' as 'bridge
masonry,' to be paid for ly the defendant at the price of $7.00
per perch, under the terms of the contract, then such determination and judgment of the engineer is final and binding on
the plaintiff, unless the jury find that the price and value of
the masonry fixed and returned by the engineer was inadequate
and unjust to the contractor, in which event the jury may presume fraud, and disregard- the price fixed by the engineer in his
final estimate."
This instruction, to which defendant excepted, was clearly
erroneous; for, if the masonry was of the class described in
the contract as bridge masonry, or if the parties by subsequent'
agreement, express or implied, authorized it to be put in that
class-the determination of which questions might be con-

STRANG v. BR DNER.
Syllabus.

trolled by special circumstances not appearing on the face of
the agreement--then the estimate of the engineer, upon the
basis of the contract price, was conclusive, unless impeached
on the ground of fraud, or such gross mistake as necessarily
itmplied bad faith. The test was not whether the price and
value of the masonry fixed and returned by the engineer was
inadequate and unjust. Much less did the jury have the right
to presume fraud and disregard the engineer's estimate, merely
becaue the price, upon which the parties originally agreed for
bridge masonry, proved to be inadequate and unjust; for, that
would have enabled them to make for the parties a contract
which they did not themselves choose to make.
Without expressing an opinion upon other questions, of a
subordinate character, discdssed in the brief of the defendant's
counsel, and which may not arise upon another trial,
The judgment is reversed, awd the case remandedwith directions to set aside the verdict and grant a new trial,and
for such furtherproceedingsas may be consistent with this
opinion.

STRANG & Another v. BRADNER & Another.
IN

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE

STATE OF NEW YORK.

Argued April 13, 1885.-Decided May 4, IM5.

The rule re-affirmed that the term "fraud," in the clause defining the debts

from which a bankrupt is not relieved by a discharge under the bankrupt
act, means positive fraud or fraud in fact, involving moral turpitude or
intentional wrong. not implied fraud, which may exist without bad faith.
A claim against a bankrupt for damages on account of fraud or deceit practised by him, is not discharged by proceedings in bankruptcy; nor is a
debt, created by his fraud, discharged. even where it was proved against
his estate, and a dividend thereon received on account.
If, in the conduct of partnership business, and with reference thereto, one
partner makes false or fraudulent misrepresentations of fact to the injury
of innocent persons dealing with him, as representing the firm, and without
notice of any limitations upon his general authority as agent for the partnership, his partners cannot escape pecuniary responsibility therefor upon

