MURPHY v. RAMSEY

15

Syllabus.

T-RPRY ,v. RAMSEY & Others.

PRATT v. RAMSEY & Others.
RANDALL v. RAMSEY & Others.
OLAWSON v. RAMSEY & Others.
BARLOW v. RAMSEY & Others.
.APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAR.

Argned January 28, 1885.-Decided March 23,1885.

The Board of Commissioners appointed for theTerritory of Utah in pursuance
of § 9 of the act of Congress approved March 22, 1882, entitled "An act
to amend § 5352 of the Revised Statutes of the United States in reference
to bigamy, and for other purposes," 22 Stat. 90, have no power over the registration of voters or the donduct of elections. Their authority is limited
to the appointmenit of registration and election officers, to the canvass of
the returns made by such officers of election, and to the'issue of certificates
of election to the persons appearing by such canvass to be elected.
The registration and election officers thus appointed are required, until other
provisions be made by the Legislative assembly of the Territory, to perform their duties under the existing laws of the Unitedd States including
the act of March 22, 1882, and of the Territory,- so far as not in~ousistent
therewith.
As the Board of Commissioners had no lawful power to prescribe conditions
of registration -or of voting, any'rules of that character ptomulgated by
them to govern the registration and election officers were null and void;
and as such rules could not be pleaded by theegilstration officers as lawful
commands in justiflication of refusals to-register persons claiming the right
to be registered as voters, their illegality is no ground of liabilityagainst
* the Board of Commissioners.
The registration officers were bound to register only such persons as, being
qualified under the laws previously-in force, and "offering to take the oath
as to such qualifications prescribed by the territorial act-of 1878, were
also not disqualified by § 8 of the act of Congress of March.22, 1882.
That section provides, as to males, that no polygamist, bigamist, or any per*son cohabiting with more than one woman ; and, as to females, that no
woman c5habiting with any polygamist, bigamist, or man cohabiting wth
more than one woman, shall be entitled to vote, and, conseqdently, no such
,person is entitlid to be registered as a voter ; and the registration officer

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.
must either require such disqualifications to be negatived by a modification
of the oath, the form of which is given in the territorial act, or otherwise to satisfy himself by due inquiry that such disqualifications do not
exist ; but which course he is bound to adopt it is not necessary in these
cases to decide.
The plaintiffs in these actions, seeking to recover damages for being unlawfully deprived of their right to be registered as voters, must allege in their
declarations, as matter of fact, that they were legally qualified voters,
or, that allegation being omitted, must allege all the facts necessary to
show, as matter of law, that they were qualified voters ; and to this end it
is necessary that they should negative all the disqualifications pronounced
by thd law.
A bigamist or polygamist, in the sense of the eighth section of the act of
March 22, 1882. is a man who, having contracted a bigamous or polygamous
marriage, and become the husband, at one time, of two or more wives,
maintains that relation and status at the time when he offers to be registered as a voter ; and this without reference to the 'question whether he
was at any time Guilty of the offence of bigamy or polygamy, or whether
any prosecution for such offence was barred by the lapse of time ; neither
is it necessary that he should be guilty of polygamy under the first section
of the act of March 22, 1882. The eighth section of the act is not intended,
and does not operate, as an additional penalty prescribed for the -punishment of the offence of polygamy, but merely defines it as a disqualific ion
of a voter. It is not, therefore, objectionable as an ex post facto law, and
has no retrospective operation. The disfranchisement operates upon the
existing state and conditioh of the person and not upon a past offence.
It was accordingly, Held(1.) That, as to the five defendants below, composing the Board of Commissioners under the ninth section of the act of March 22, 1882, the demurrers
were rightly sustained, and the judgments are affirmed.
(2.) That, in the cases in which Jesse J. Murphy and James X. Barlow respectively were plaintiffs, they do not allege that they were not polygamists or
'bigamists at the time they offered to register, although they deny that they
were at that time liable to a criminal prosecution for polygamy or bigamy,
and deny that they were cohabiting with more than one woman, and not
showing themselves to be legally qualified voters, the judgment on the demurrers as to all the defendants is affirmed.
(3.) That, in the case in which Ellen C. Clawson, with her husband, is plaintiff, as the declaration does not deny the disqualification of one who is at
the time cohabiting with a polygamist or bigamist, the judgment as to all
the defendants is affirmed.
(4.) That, in the cases in which Mary'Ann At. Pratt and Mildred E. Randall,
with her husband, are the respective plaintiffs, as all the disqualifications
are denied, and it is alleged that the defendants, the registration officers,
wilfully and malietusly refused to register them as voters, the judgments
as to Hoge and Lindsay in one, and as to Hoge and Harmel Pratt in the
other, are reversed, and the causes remanded for further proceedings.

MURPHY v' RAMSEY. '
Statement of Facts.

I% these actions, five in number, Alexander. Ramsey, A.'S.
'Paddock,.
G. L. 'Godfrey, A. B. QaIreton and J. iR.Pettigrew,
defendants in all, were persons who composed the board
appointed under § 9 of the act of Congress,. approved
March 22, 1882, entitled "An act to amend secfion fifty-three
'hundred and fifty-two of the Revised Statutes of the United
States, in reference to bigamy, and f6r other purposes." 22
Stat. 30. E. D. fHoge, also a defendant,' in all the cases, was
appointed registration officer for the county of Salt Tiake; in
the Territory of Utah, by that board, in. pursuance of that.
section of the act. The other defendants, one of whom is
joined in each action, to wit, Arthur Pratt, John S. Lindsay,
flarmel Pratt and James T. Little, were respectively deputy
regiptration officers in designated election precincts in wellh
the plaintiffs in 'the actions severally claimed the right to be
registered as voters. The object of the actions was to recover
damages, alleged to have arisen by reason of the dQfendant's
wrongfully and maliciously refusing to permit the plaintiffs respectiv ely to be registered as qualified voters in the Territory.'
of Utah, whereby they were deprived of the right to voteat
an election held in that Territory cii November 7 1882, for the
election of a Delegate to the Forty-eighth Congress.
In the case in which Jesse J. Murphy ig plaintiff below and,
appellant here, the complaint is as follows:
"The plaintiff above named complains of the defendants, anc.
on information and belief alleges, that after the 22d- day of
M arch, 1882, and prior to the first day of July, 1882,'under the
provisions of section 9 of an act of the Congress. Qf the United
States, approved March 22d, 1882, and efttitled "An' act .to.amend section 5352 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States, in reference to bigamy, and for other purposes,' the
President of the United States, by and with the consent of the
Senate of the United States, duly appointed the defendaitsi
Alexander Ramsey, A. S. Paddock, G. L. Godfrey, A:. B. Carleton, and J. R.Pettigrew, to perform the duties mentioned in
said section, to be performed by a board of five persons, and byvirtue of said appointment, theybecaniea board of five pers6ns
with the powers named in said sectioh.
VOL. Cx-v-.2

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

"And, on information and belief, the plaintiff alleges that,
after such appointment, and prior to the first day of August,
1 882, the last, named five defendants, duly qualified as such appointees, came to Utah and organized as a board, and entered
upon the exercise of the powers and the discharge of the duties
granted and imposed by said section 9 of said act of Congress.
That after said organization, said five defendants were commonly called ' cormpissioners,' and are hereinafter -referred to
and called.the 'Board Qf Commissioners.'
"That -said Board of Commissioners afterward ordered,
directed and supervised a registration of the voters of the
Territory of Utah,. for the general election in said Territory, to be held on the seventh day of November, 1882, for
the election of a Delegate for said Territory to the Fortyeighth Congress, and for such other-elections as might be held
prior to another registration of voters of said Territory; and
on or about the 10th day of August, 1882, the said Board of
Commissioners made and published rules providing for said
registration, for the appointment of registration officers and
judges of election, and the' canvass and return of the votes;
directed said registration to be made during the week com•mencing on the second Monday of September, 1882, and,
among other rules, wilfully and maliciously made and published the following:
' Rule' i.
There shall be appointed one registration officer for each
county, and one deputy registration officer for each precinct
thereof.
'Rule II.
'Such registration officer shall, on the second Monday of
September next, proceed by himself and his deputies in the
manner following: The registration officer of each county shall
procure from the clerk of the county court the last preceding
registry list on file in his office, and shall, by himself or his
deputies, require of each person whose name is on said list, or
who applies to have his name placed on said list, to take and
subscribe the following oath or affirmation:

MURPHY v. RAMSEY.
Statement of Facts.
TERrroiY OF UTA.H,

being first duly sworn (or affirmed), depose
and say: That I am over twenty-one years of age, and haye
'I

resided in the Territory of Utah. for six months, and in the precinct ofone ,month immediately preceding the date
hereof, and (if a nale) am a native born or naturalized (as the
case may be) citizen of the United States, and a taxpayer in this
Territory, (or if a female) I am native born, or naturalized, or
the wife, widow or daughter (as the case nay be) of a native
born or naturalized citizen of the United States, and I do further solemnly swear (or affirm) that I am not-a bigamist nor a.
polygamist; that I am not a violater of the laws of the United
States prohibitig bigamy or polygamy ; that I do not live or
cohabit with more than one woman in the marriage relation,
nor does any relation exist between me and any woman which
has been entered into or continued in violation of the said laws
of the United States prohibiting bigamy or polygamy, (and if
a woman) that I am not the wife of a polygamist, nor have I:
entered into any relation with any man in violation of the
laws of the United States concerning polygamy or bigamy.
'Subscribed and sworn to before me, this
day of
-1881.

'_Begisration 0ffeer, "Precinct.

'And said registration officer, or his deputies, shall add to
said lists the names of all qualified voters in such precinct
whose names are not on the list, upon their taking and subscribing to the aforesaid oath, and the said 'regitratin officer
shall strike from said lists the names of said .persons who fail or
refuse to take said oath, or have died or removdd from the
precinct, or are disqualified as voters under the act of Congress
approved March 22d, A.D. 1882, entitled 'An act to amenid
section 5352 of the Revised Statutes of .the United States, in
reference to bigamy, and for other, purposes:' Provided,That
the action of any registration officer may be revised and reversed by this commission, upon a proper sbowing : And 2rovided, furter, That if the registration officer be nnabl, 1o

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

procure the registration list from the office of the clerk of the
county, or if the, same have been lost or destroyed, the said
officer and his deputies shall make a new registry list in full
of all legal voters of each precinct of the county, under the
provisions of these rules.'
"That said Board of Commissioners also, by rules, provided
for the appointment of and appointed three judges of election
for each election precinct in said Territory.
"And on information and belief, the plaintiff alleges that
the defendant, E. D. Hoge, was appointed registration officer
for the county of Salt Lalke, in said Territory of Utah, and the
defendant; Arthur Pratt, was appointed deputy registration
officer for the fourth election precinct of the city of Salt Lake,
in said county, and that each accepted the appointment, duly
qualified, and respectively acted throughout the said registration as such registration and deputy registration officer.
"And the plaintiff alleges, that on the second Monday of
September, 1882, the defendant, Arthur Pratt, as deputy registration officer for said fourth precinct in the city and county of
Salt Lake, aforesaid, acting under the direction of the other
defendants, commenced registering the voters of said precinct
'and making a registration list of such voters, and continued
daily therein until the evening of Saturday of the same week,
when the registration was closed.
"And the plaintiff alleges that he is a native citizen of the
United States of America, and prior to the 22d day of March,
1882, was more than twenty-one years of age; that he has
resided continuously in the Territory of Utah for more than
eleven years, and resided continuously in the fourth, precinct
of Salt Lake City, in said Territory, for more, than two years
past; that he has, for more than ten years prior to the November election in 1882, lawfully exercised the rights and enjoyed
the 'privileges of the elective franchise in said Territory, and
has, for-more than ten years last past, owned taxable property
and been a tax-payer in said Territory, and that his name was
on the last registration list of the voters of the second precinct, Ogden City, Weber County, Utah, made p~ior to the second
Monday of September, 1882.

MEURPHY v. RAMSEY.
Statement of Facts.

"And the plaintiff alleges that he has not, since more than
three years'prior to Maich. 22, 1882, married or entered into
any marriage contract or relation with any. woman, or in anywise violated the act of Congress approved July 1, 1862, defining and providing for the punishment of~bigamy in the Territories, and has resided continuously And openly in the coun
ties of Weber and Salt Lake, Utah, for ten y ars last past,,and
has not violated any of the provisions of the act of Congress,
approved March 22, 1882, entitled 'An act to amend section..
5352 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, in reference
to bigamy, and for other purposes; ' and that 'he has n6t, on
or since the 22d day of March, 1882, cohbbited with more than
one woman, and has never been charged with or 'accised or
convicted of bigamy or polygamy, or cohabiting with morethan one woman, in any court or before any officer or tribunal.
S"And the plaintiff alleges that on the 1th' day of Septem-"
ber, 1882, he personally went before the defendaiit, Arthur
Pratt, then acting as deputy registratibn officer in and for the
fourth precinct in Salt Lake City, aforesaid, and signed and:
presented to said defendant, and. offered to verify, and requested the said defendant to take and certify plaintiff's oath
to the following affidavit, to wit:
TRRORy or UTAH,

SS:

County of Salt Lake Is
'I, Jesse J. Murphy, being first duly sworn, depose and say:
I am over twenty-one years of age, and have continuously resided in the Territory of Utah for more. tihan six months, to,
.wit, for more than. eleven years last past ;.I have resided in
the fourth precinct of Salt Lake City more than six months
next preceding the date hereof, and now reside therein; I am
a male native born citizen of the United States-of -America,
and'a property owner and tax-payer in said Territory of Utah.
I have, under the laws of the Territory of Utah, exercised-the
elective franchise in said Territory for more thar ten years last
past. I have 'not, within three years prior to the 22d day of
March, 1882, or since, having a wife living, married another,
or another woman; and I have continuously and openly re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

sided in the counties of Weber and Salt Lake, in the Territory
of Utah, for more than three years prior to the 22d day of
March, 1882, and I have not, on or since the 22d day of March,
1882, having a wife living, married another, or simultaneously,
or on the same day, married more than one woman, or on or
since said last named date married or entered into any marriage
contract or relation with any woman, or cohabited with more
than one woman, or in anywise violated the act of Congress
entitled ' An act to amend section 5352 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States, in reference to bigamy, and for other
purposes,' approved March 22d, 1882. My name is on the
last registry list of 'voters of the second precinct, Ogden City,
Weber County, Utah.
'JxssE J. MURPHY.
'Subscribed and sworn to before me, this thirteenth day of
September, A.D. 18$2.'
"And at the same time the plaintiff requested the said defendant, Arthur Pratt, to put plaintiff's name on the registry
list of voters of said precinct, and to register him as a voter
therein. That the said defendant, Arthur Pratt, acting under
the directions of the other defendants, wilfully and maliciously
refused to receive said affidavit or to swear plaintiff thereto, or
to register him as a voter of said precinct, but on the contrary
wilfully and maliciously struck plaintiff's name off the list of
registered voters of said precinct, and left his name off the list
of voters of said precinct, made at said registration.
"That afterwards, before the close of said registration, and
on the 14th day of September, 1882, the plaintiff presented a
duplicate of said last-named affidavit to the defendant, E. D.
loge, then acting as county registration officer for said county
of Salt Lake, and informed him of the ruling and actiofA as
aforesaid of the defendant, Arthur Pratt, and requested the
defendant, E. D. Ifoge, to correct and reverse said ruling, and
to instruct the defendant,' Arthur Pratt, to swear plaiiitiff to
said affidavit and register him as a voter, and the said defendant, E. D. Hl ge, wilfully and maliciously refused to correct or

MURPHY v. RAMSEY.
Statement of Facts.

change said ruling and action, and approved and aflimed the
same.
"That on the 16th day of September, 1882, the plaintiff presented to said Board of Commissioners a duplicate of said lastnamed affidavit, and informed them of the action and ruling
of the defendants, Arthur Pratt and E. D. Hoge, and requested said board to reverse and correct said rulings and ac-.
tioni, and to direct that plaintiff's oath to said affidavit be taken,
and that he be registered as a voter of said precinct, and the
said Board of Commissioners wilfully and maliciously refused
to correct or change said rulings, and affirmed and approved
the same, and said last-named ruling was made before the close
of the registration in said precinct, and when there was still
time for plaintiff to have registered before the close of the
registration.
"And, on information and belief, the plaintiff alleges that
the defendants all knew that, unless the plaintiff's'name appeared on the registration list then being made of the voters
of said precinct, his vote would not be received at the election
to be held November 7,1882, or at any election until after
another registration of voters. .
" That at an election held throughout the Territory of Utah,
on the 7th of November, 1882, for the election of a Delegate
for the Territory of Utah for the Forty-eighth .Congress, the
plaintiff went before the judges of election in said fourth precinct of the city of Salt Lake, in the county of Salt Lake, at
the, place where the votes in said precinct were being taken,
and offered to vote at said election, and tendered and offered
to take the same affidavit, but the said judges refused to receive his vote, on the ground that he was not registered as a
voter in said precinct.
"And, on information and belief, the plaintiff alleges that
the defendants, and each of them, intending to wrongfully
deprive the plaintiff of the elective franchise in said Territory,
wilfully and maliciously, by the acts and in the manner aforesaid, refused the plaintiff fegistration as a voter, at the said
registration commenced on the second Monday of September,
1882, and deprived the plaintiff of the right to vote at the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

election held in said Territory on the 7th day of November,
1882, and at all elections under said registration,.whereby
plaintiff has sustained damage to the amount of twelve hundred dollars.
"Wherefore the plaintiff prays judgment against the defendants for the sum of twelle hundred dollars and costs of suit."
In the case in which Mary Ann M. Pratt is plaintiff and appellant. the complaint is similar in all respects, except the
allegations as to her qualifications as a voter, and the contents
of the affidavit which she offered to the deputy registration
officer. The averments as to her qualifications, are as follows:
"And the plaintiff alleges that she is a native citizen of the
United States of America, and prior to the 22d day of March,
1882, was more than twenty-one years of age; that she has resided continuously in the Territory of Utah for more than thirty
years, and resided continuously in the third precinct of Salt
Lake City, in said Territory, for more than two Years last past;
that she has, for more than five years prior to the November
election in 1882, lawfully exercised the rights and enjoyed the
privileges of the elective franchise in said Territory, and has,
for more than five years last past, owned taxable property and
been a tax-payer in said Territory, and that her name was on
the last registration list of the voters of the third precinct, made
prior to the second Monday of September, 1882.
"And the plaintiff alleges that she is not, and never has
been, a bigamist or a polygamist; that she is the widow of
Orson Pratt, Sen., who died prior to the 22d day of March,
1882, after a continuous residence in said Territory of more
than thirty years, and that since the death of her said husband
she has not cohabited with any man."
The affidavit proposed by her contained the same allegations.
Alfred Randall and Mildred E. Randall, plaintiffs in another
action, sue as husband and wife, in the right of the wife, for
injury to her by reason of being deprived of her right to vote.
The averments in the complaint as to her qualifications are as

follows:
"And the plaintiffs allege that the plaintiff, Mildred E.
Randall, is a native citizen of the United States of America,

MURPHY v.RAMSEY.
Statement of Facts.

and prior to the 22d day of March, 1882, was more than twentyone years of age; that she has resided continuously in the Territory of Utah for more than twenty years, and resided continuously in the second precinct of Salt Lake City, in said
Territory, for more than two years last past; that she has, for
more than ten years prior to the November election in 1882,
lawfully exercised the rights and enjoyed the privileges of the
elective franchise in said Territory, and has, for more than five
years last past, owned taxable property and been a tax-payer
in said Territory, and that her name was on the last registration list of the voters of the second precinct, made prior to the
second Monday of September, 1882.
"And the plaintiffs allege that the plaintiff, Mildred E.
Randall, for more than three years last past, has been and is
the wife of the plaintiff, Alfred Randall, who is, and prior to
March 22d, 1882, waA, a native born citizen of the United
States of America; that she has not on or since M arch 22d,
1882, cohabited with any bigamist, polygamist, or with any
man cohabiting with more than one woman;,that she is Aot a
bigamist or polygamist, and never has been a bigamist or polygamist, and has not in any way violated the act of Congess
entitled 'An act to amend section-5352 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States in reference -to bigamy, and for other purposes,' approved March 22d, 1882."
The affidavit presented by her to the deputy registration
officer and rejected by him contained the same allegations. In
all other respects, the complaint is similar to all the others.
Hiram B. Clawson and Ellen 0. Clawson also sue as husband
and wife, in the wife's right, and the averments in the complaint as to her qualification§ are as follows:
"And the plaintiffs allege'that the plaintiff, Ellen C. Clawson, is a native citizen of the United States of America, and
prior to the 22d day of March, 1882, was more than twentyone years of age; that she has resided continuously- in the
Territory of Utah for more than thirty-three years, and resided
continuously in the fifth precinct of Salt Lake City, in said
Territory, for more than two years last past; that she has, for
more thaii ten years prior to the November election in 1882,

OCTOBER TERM,

1884.

Statement ,of Facts.

lawfully exercised the rights and enjoyed the privileges of. the
elective franchise in said Territory, and has, for more than five
years last past, owned taxable property and been a tax-payer
in said Territory, and that her name was on the last registration list of the voters of said fifth precinct, made prior to
the second Monday of September, 1882.
"And the plaintiffs allege that the plaintiff, Ellen C. Clawson,
is not and never has been a bigamist or polygamist, and is not
cohabiting and never has cohabited with any man except her
husband, the co-plaintiff herein, to whom she was lawfully married more than fifteen years ago, and of whom she is the first
and lawful wife.
"That the plaintiff, Hiram B. Clawson, has not married or
entered into any marriage contract or relation with any woman
within the last six years, and has continuously and openly resided in the' City of Salt Lake, in said Territory of Utah, for
more than twenty years last past."
She presented to the deputy registration officer an affidavit
setting forth the same facts.
In the case in which James . Barlow is plaintiff and appellant the averments in the complaint are altogether like those
in the case of Murphy, which has been set outin full.
In each case a demurrer was filed to the complaint by all the
defendants on the ground that it did not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. These demurrers were sustained, and the plaintiffs electing to abide by their pleadings,
judgment was rendered for the defendants, which are now
brought by appeals for revision to this court.
The act of March 22, 1882, 22 Stat. 30, is as follows:
"Ax ACT to amend section fifty-three hundred and fifty-two
of the Revised Statutes of the United States in reference to
bigamy, and for other purposes.
"B e it enacted by the Senate and H ouse of Representatives o/
the United States of America in Congress assembled, That sec-

tion fifty-three hundred and fifty-two of the Revised Statutes
of the United States be, and the same is hereby, amended so as
to read as follows, namely:

MURPHY v. RAMSEY
Statement of Facts.

"Every person who has a husband or wife living who, in a
Territory or other place over which the United States have exclusive jurisdiction, hereafter marriesanother, whether married
or single, and any manwho hereafter simultaneously, or on the
samd-day, marries more than one woman, in a Territory or other
place over which the United States have exclusive jurisdiction, is
guilty of polygamy, and shall be punished by a fine of not more
than five hundred dollars and by imprisonment for a term of
not more than five years; but this section shall not extend
'to any person by reason of any former marriage whose husband
or wife by such marriage shall have been absent for five successive years, and is not known to such person to be living,
and is believed by such person to be dead, nor to any person by
.reason of any former marriage which. shall'have been dissolved
by a valid decree of a competent court, nor to any person by
reason of any former marriage which shall have been pronounced void by a valid decree of a competent court, on the
ground of nullity of the marriage contract.
"SEc.

2.-That the foregoing provisions shall not affect the

prosecution or punishment of any offence already committed
against the section amended by the first section of this act.
"SEc. 3. That if any male person, in a Territory or other place
over which the United States have exclusive jurisdiction, hereafter cohabits with more than one woman, he shall be ileemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be
punished by a fine of not more than three hundred dollars,'or
by imprisonment for not more than six months, or by both said
punishments, in the discretion of the court.
"SE.
4. That counts for any or all of the offences named in
sections one and three of this'act may be joined in the same
information or indictment.
"SEC. 5. That in any prosecution for bigamy, polygamy, or
unlawful cohabitation, under any statute of the United States,
it shall be sufficient cause of challenge to any person drawn or
summoned as a juryman or talesman, first, that he has been
living in the practice of bigamy, polygamy, or unlawful cohabitation with more than one woman, or that he is or has been
guilty of an offence punishable by either of the foregoing sections,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

or by section fifty-three hundred and fifty-two of the Revised
Statutes of the United States, or the act of July first, eighteen
hundred and sixty-two, entitled 'An Act to punish and prevent
the practice of polygamy in the Territories of the United States
and other places, and disapproving and annulling certain,acts of
the Legislative Assembly of the Territory of Utah;' or, second,
that he believes it right for a man to have more than one living and undivorced wife at the same time, or to live in the
practice of cohabiting with more than one woman; and any
person appearing or offered as a juror or talesman, and challenged on either of the foregoing grounds, may be questioned
on his oath as to the existence of any such cause of challenge,
and other evidence may be introduced bearing upon the question raised by such challenge; and this question shall be tried
by the court. But as to the first grotnd of challenge beforementioned, the person challenged shall not be bound to answer
if he shall say upon his oath that he declines on the ground
that his answer may tend to criminate himself; and if he shall
answer as to said first ground, his answer shall not be given in
evidence in any criminal prosecution iigainst him for any offence
named in sections one or three of this act, but if he declines to
answer on any ground, he shall be rejected as incompetent.
"Sic. 6. That the President is hereby authorized to grant
amnesty to such classes ,of offenders guilty of bigamy, polygamy, or unlawful cohabitation, before the passage of this act,
on such conditions and under such limitations as he shall think
proper; but no such amnesty shall have effect unless the conditions thereof shall be complied with.
"SEc. 7. That the issue of bigamous or polygamous marriages, known As Mormon marriages, in cases in which such
marriages have been solemnized according to the ceremonies of
the Mormon sect, in any Territory of the United States, and
such issue shall have been born before the first day of January,
Anno Domini eighteen hundred and eighty-three, are hereby
legitimated.
"SEc. 8. That no polygamist, bigamist, or any person cohabiting with more than one woman, and no woman cohabiting
with any of the persons described as aforesaid in this section,

MURPHY v. RAMSEY.
Statement of Facts.

in any Territory or other place over which the Unit6d States
have exclusive jurisdiction, shall be entitled to vote at any election held in any such Territory or other place, or b3 eligible
for election-or appointment to or be entitled to hold any
office or place of public trust, honor or emolument, in, under,
or for any such Territory or place, or under the United States.
"SEC. 9. That all the registration and election offices of

every description in the Territory of Utah are hereby declared
vacant, and each and every duty relating to the registration of
voters, the conduct of elections, the receiving or rejection of
votes, and the-canvassing and returning of the same, and the
issuing of certificates or other evidence of election in said
Territory, shall, until other provisions be made by the Legislative Assembly of said Territory as is -hereinafter by this section'
provided, be performed under the existing laws of the United
States and of said Territory by proper persons, who shall be
appointed to execute such offices and perform such duties by a
board of five persons, to be appointed by the President, by
and with the advice and consent of the Senate, not more than
three of whom shall be members of one political party; and a
majority of whom shall be a quorum. The members of said
board so appointed by the President shall each receive a salary
at tbe rate of three thousand dollirs per annum, and shall continue in office until the Legislative Assembly of said Territory
shall make provision for filling said offices as herein authorized.
The secretary of the Territory shall be the secretary of said.
board, and keep a journal of its proceedings, and attest the
action of'said board under this section. The canvass and return of all the votes at elections in said Teiritory for members
of the Legislative Assembly thereof shall also be returned to'
said board, which shall canvass all such returns and issue certificates of election to those persons who, being eligible for sucl
election, shall appear to have been lawfully elected, which hertificates shall be the only evidence of the right of such:3ersons
to sit in such Assembly: Provided,That said board of five
persons shall not exclude any person otherwise eligible to vote
from the polls on account of any opinion such person may entertain on the subject of bigamy or polygamy, nor shall they

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

refuse to count any such vote on account of the opinion of the
person casting it on the subject of bigamy or polygamy; but"
each House of such Assembly, after its organization, shall have
power to decide upon the elec.tions and qualifications of its
members. And .at or after the first meeting of said Legislative
Assembly, jvhose members shall have been elected and returned
according to the provisions of this act, said Legislative Assembly may make such. laws, conformable to the organic act of
said Territory and not inconsistent with other laws of the
United States, as it shall deem proper, concerning the filling of
the offices in said Territory declared vacant by this act."
§ 5352 of the Revised Statutes, which the foregoing act
amends, reads as follows: "Every person having a husband or
wife living who marries another, whether married or single,
in a Territory, or other place over which the United States
have exclusive jurisdiction, is guilty of bigamy, and shall be
punished by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars, and
by imprisonment for a term not more than five.years ; but this
section shall not extend to any person by reason of any former
marriage whose husband or wife by such marriage is absent
for five successive years and is not known to such person to be
living, nor to any person by ieason of any former marriage
which has been. dissolved by decree of a competent court, nor
to any person by reason of any former marriage which has
been pronounced void by decree of a competent court on the
ground of nullity of the marriage contract."
At the time of the passage of the act of March 22, 1882, the
qualifications of voters prescribed by the Territorial Legislature, whose right to do so was conferred by the organic act
of Utah, were as follows: If males, they were required to be
citizeus of the United States, over twenty-one years of age,
and constant residents in the Territory during the six months
next preceding the election, and no person was to be deemed a
resident unless he was a tax-payer in the Territory; if females,
they were required to be of the age of twenty-one years, resident in the Territory six months next preceding the election,
and born or naturalized in the United States, or the wife,
widow or daughter of a native born or naturalized citizen of

MJURPHY v. RAMSEY.
Statement of Facts.

the United, States. Act to establish a territorial government
for Utah, approved September 9, 1850, 9 Stat. 453; Oomp.
Laws of Utah, 1876, p. 88.
At the same time there was also in force ch. 12 of the
laws of Utah, 1878, providing for the registration of voters and
to further regulate the manner of conducting elections in that
Territory.
That act contains the following provisions:
"That the assessors in their respective counties are hereby
constituted the registration officers, and they are required to
appoint a-resident deputy in each precinct to assist in carrying
out the provisions of this act, and before the first Monday in
June, 1878, in person or by deputy, they shall'visit every
dwelling iii each precinct, and make careful inquiry as to any
or all persons entitled to vote, and each assessor or deputy, in
all cases, shall ascertain upon what ground such person claims
to be a voter, and he shall require each person entitled to vote
and desiring to be registered to take and subscribe in substance
the following oath or affirmation:
,TERrrony OF UTAH, t

'County

.
I -,
being first Jluly sworn,.depose and say that I am
over twenty-one years of age and have resided in the Territory
of Utah for six months, and in the precinct of
one
month next preceding the date hereof, and (if a male) am a
(" native born," 'or " naturalized," as the case may be) citizen of
the United. States, and a tax-payer in this Territory; (or, if a
female,) I am "native born," or. "naturalized," or the "wife,"
"widow," or "daughter" (as the case may be) of a native born
or -naturalized citizen of the United States.
'Subscribed and sworn to before me this - day, A.D.
18-.

"Upon the receipt of such affidavit, the assessor as aforesaid
shall place the name of: such voter -upon the register list of the
voters of the county.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

"SEC. 2. It shall also be the duty of the assessor of each
county, in person or by deputy, at the time of making the annual assessment for taxes in each year, beginning in 1879, to
take up the transcript for the next preceding registration list
and proceed to the revision of the same, and for this purpose
he shall visit every dwelling-house in each precinct, and make
careful inquiry if any person whose name is on his list has died,
or removed from the precinct, or is otherwise disqualified as a
voter of such precinct, and if so, to erase the same therefrom,
or whether any qualified voter resides therein whose name is
not on his list, and if so, to add the same thereto, in the manner as provided in the preceding section.
"SEc. 3. It shall- also be the duty of each assessor, in person,
or by deputy, during the week commencing the first Monday
in June of each year, at his office, to enter on his registry list
the name of any voter that may have been omitted, on such
voter appearing and complying with the provision of the first
section of this act required of voters f6r registration purposes.
"SEC. 4. Upon the completion of the list, it shall be the duty
of each assessor as aforesaid to proceed to make out a list in
alphabetical order, for each precinct, containing the names of
all the registered voters of such precinct, and shall, on or before the first day of July in each year, deliver all of said lists
and affidavits to the clerk of the county court.
"SEC. 5. The clerk of the county court shall deliver to the
assessor the registry lists whenever necessary for the revision
thereof, or adding names thereto, and the assessor in person or
by deputy shall, during'the week commencing the second Monday in September in the year 1878, and every second year
thereafter, enter names of voters on the registry list in the
manner provided in section three of this act, and upon the list
being completed, proceed as required by section four of this
act: Provided, That in such case he shall deliver thd list and
affidavits on or before the 10th day of October in such year.
"SEC. 6. Voters removing from one election precinct to another in the same county may appear before the assessor at
any time previous to the' delivery of the registry list to the
clerk of the county court, and have their names erased there-

MURPHY v. RAMSEY.
Statement of Facts.

from, and they may thereupon'have their names registered in
the precinct to which they may remove.
"SEc. 7. The clerk of the county court shall file and care-

fully preserve all said affidavits and registry lists, and shall
make a copy of each precinct registry list, and cause the same
to be posted up at least fifteen days before any election, at or
near the place of election, and shall make and transmit another
copy to the judges of election.
"SFe.- 8. The cleik of "the county court shall cause to be
printed or written a notice, which shall designate the offices to
be filled, and. stating that the election will commence at
[designating the place for holding the-polls,] one hour after
sunrise, and continue till sunset on the [naming the day of election.] Dated at -

day of , 18-,
, A. D. 18-.

, lerk of the County Court.
"A copy of which shall be posted up at least fifteen days
before the election, in three public places in said precinct best
calculated to give notice to all the voters. It shall also be the
duty of the clerk of the county court to give notice on the lists
so posted that the senior justices of the peace for said precinct
will hear objections to the right to vote of any person registered until sunset of the fifth day preceding the day of election.
Said objections shall be; made by a -qualified voter, in writing,
and delivered to the said justice, who shall issue a written notice
to the person objected to, stating the place, day, and. hour when
the objection will be heard. The person making the objection
shall serve, or cause to be served, said notice upon the person
objected to, and shall also make returns of such service to the
justice before whom the objection shall be heard. Upon the
hearing of the case, if said justice shall find that the person objected to is not a qualified voter, he shall, within three days
prior to the election, transmit a certified list of the names of
all such unqualified persons to the judges of election, and said
judges shall strike such names from the registry list before ke
opening of the polls.
"SE C. 9. The county court shall, at its first session in June
of each year, appoint :three capable and discreet persons in
each precinct in the county, one at least of whom shall be of
VOL. CXIV-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

the political party that was in the minority at the last previous
election, if any -such party there be in such precinct, to act as
judges of general and special elections; and they shall designate one of the persons appointed to preside, and the other two
to act as clerks of said elections. And the clerk of said court
shall make out certificates of said appointments, and transmit
the same by mail or other safe conveyance to the persons so
appointed, who, previous to entering upon said office, shall
take and subscribe an oath to the effect that they will well and
faithfully perform all the duties thereof to the best of th'eir
ability, and that they will studiously endeavor to prevent any
fraud, deceit, or abuse at any election over which they may
preside. If, in any precinct, any of such judges decline to
serve or fail to appear, the voters of said precinct, first assembled on the day of election, to the number of six, at or immediately after the time designated for opening the polls, may
elect a judge or judges to fill the vacancy, and the persons so
elected shall qualify as hereinbefore provided."
Sections 10 and 11 prescribe how ballot-boxes, keys, &c.,
shall be procured, and provide for envelopes and ballots, an I
for keeping the boxes during the voting and until the canvass;
and section 12 provides how the judges shall keep the lists, &c.
"See. 13. Every voter shall designate on a single ballot,
written or printed, the name -of the person or persons voted
for, with a pertinent designation of the office to be filled, and
when any question is to be decided in the affirmative or negative, he shall state the proposition at the bottom of the ballot,
and write thereunder yes or no, as he may desire to vote
thereon, which ballot shall be neatly folded and placed in one
of the envelopes hereinbefore provided for, and delivered to
the presiding judge of election, who shall, in the presence of
the voter, on the name of the proposed voter being found on
the registry list, and on all challenges to such vote being decided in favor of such voter, .deposit it in the ballot-box, without any mark whatever being placed on such envelope; otherwise the ballot shall be rejected."
The remainder of the act relates to the canvass, returns, and
certificates of election.

-URPHY v. RAMSEY.
Opinion of the Court.

JX1r. George G. Vest and .Mr. Wayne .3coeighfor appellants.
.A1r. Solicitor-Generalfor appellees.
MR.JUSTICE MATrHmws, after making the foregoing state-

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
These cases, although actions at law, were not tried by jury
and, therefore, are rightly brought here by appeal, according
to the provision' of the act of Congress of April T, 1874, 18
Stat. 27. Stingfelow v., Cain, 99 U_ S. 610; Hecht v.'Boughton2, 105 U. S. 235; Woof v. Hamilton, 108 U. S. 15.
The 'wrong complained of in each case by the respective
plaintiffs is, "that the defendants, and each of them, intending
to wrongfully deprive the plaintiff of the elective franchise in
said Territory, wilfully and maliciously, by the acts and in the
manner. aforesaid, refused the plaintiff registration, as a voter,
at the said registration commenced on the second Monday of
September, 1882, and deprived the plaintiff of the right to vote
at the election held in said Territory on the Ith day of-November, 1882,'and at all elections under said registration."
The acts which, it is alleged, were done by the five defendants, as a Board of Commissioners or Canvassers, under the law.
of March 22, 1882, and which contributed to the wrong, and
constituted part of it, are, that they, prescribed as a condition
of registration an unauthorized oath, set out in the complaint,
in a rule promulgated by them for the government of the
registration' offlers; and that the deputy registration officdr
having, in obedience to such rule, "acting under the directions
of the other defendants," wilfully and maliciously refused to
receive the affidavit tendered by the plaintiff, in lieu of thatprescribed by the rule of the board, -and to regjister the plaintiff ; and that the county registration officer, on appeal, having
refused to order otherwise, the Board of Commissioners also
refused to reverse and correct these rulings and to direct the
registration of the plaintiffs respeptively, but affirmed and
approved the same.
But an examination of the ninth section of the act Qf Match
22, 1882, providing for the appointment and prescribing the

OCTOBER TERI, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

duties and powers of that board, shows that they have no
functions whatever in respect to the registration of voters,
except the appointment of officers, in place of those previously
authorized, whose offices are by that section of the law declared
to be vacant; and the persons appointed to succeed them are
not subject to the direction and control of the board, but are
required, until other provision be made by the legislative assembly of the Territory, to perform all the duties relating to
the registration of voters, "under the existing laws of the
United States and of said Territory." The board are not authorized to prescribe rules for governing them in the performance of these duties, much less to prescribe any qualifications
for voters as a condition of registration. The statutory powers of the board are limited to the appointment of the registration and election officers, authorized to act in the first
instance under the law until provision is made by the Territorial Legislature for the appointment of their successors, and
to the canvass of the returns and the issue of certificates of
election "to thosepersons who, being eligible for such election,
shall appear to have been lawfully elected." The proviso in
the sebtion does indeed declare "that said board of five persons
shall not exclude any person otherwise eligible to vote from
the polls on account of any opinion such person may entertain
on the subject of bigamy or polygamy;" but, in the absence
of any general and express power over the subject of declaring
the qualification of voters, it is not a just inference, from the
words of this proviso, that it was intended to admit by implication the existence of any authority in the board to exclude
from registration or the right to vote, any person whatever, or
in any manner to define and declare what the qualifications of
a voter shall be. The prohibition against excluding any person from the polls, for the reason assigned, must be construed,
with the additional injunction, "nor shall they refuse to count
any such vote on account of the opinion of the person casting
it on the subject of bigamy or polygamy," to apply to the action of the board in canvassing the returns of elections, made
to them by the officers holding such elections; or, if it includes
more, it is to be taken as the announcement of a general prin-

MRfURPHY v. RAMSEY.
Opinion of the Court.

ciple to goveri all officers concerned in the registration of
voters or the conduct of elections.
It follows that the rules promiulgated by the board, prescribing the form of oath to be -exacted of persons offering to register as voters, and which constitute the directions under which
it is alleged the registration officers acted, were without force,
and no effect can be given to them It cannot be alleged that
they had the effect in law of preventing the registration of the
plaintiffs, for the registration officers were not bound to obey
them; and if they did so, they did it in their own wrong.
There wag no relation between the board and the officers appointed by them of .principal and agent, so as to mal.e the
members of the former liable for what the latter may have illegally done under their instructions, and, therefore, no connection in law between the acts of the board as: charged and
the wrong-s complained of.
The judgment in favor of the defendants, composing the
Board of Commissioners, upon their demurrer, therefore, was
rightly rendered.
The cases, as to the otner defendants, the registration officers,
stand on different principles. If they were merely ministerial
officers, and if they have deprived the -respective plaintiffis of
their right to be registered as voters,'in violation of law, they
may be responsible in an action for damages. Whether they
are so must depend, in the first instance, not upon what they
have done or omitted, but upon the question whether the plaintiffs have severally shown themselves entitled to the right of
which, it is alleged, they were illegally deprived.
And in entering upon the consideration of this point it is
to be observed, in the first place, that the pleader has not in
any of the complaints, alleged, as matter of fact, that the plaintiff was a legally qualified voter, entitled to be registered as
such. He has preferred, in each case, with variations" to suit
the circumstances, to aver the existence of specific enumeratec
qualifications, and the absence of specific and enumerated disqualifications, leaving it to be inferred, as a matter of law, that
the plaintiff was a legally qualified voter and entitled to be
registered as such. That legal inference is necessary to com-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

plete the case as stated ; and the sufficiency of the statement
must depend on whether all the positive qualifications required
by law are alleged to have existed, and all the disqualifications
affixed by law have been negatived.
To ascertain this we have to compare the allegations of the
complaint in each case with the requisitions of the law, and, by
construction, to determine whether they conform.
So far as the requirements of the law existing at the time of
the passage of the act of March 22, 1882, and which continued
in force concurrently with that, are concerned, there is no
difficulty. Each of the plaintiffs is shown to have been a
qualified voter, unless disqualified by the latter act. The only
question is, whether they have brought themselves within the
meaning of that act. The language on which the questions
arise occurs in § 8, and is: "That no polygamist, bigamist,
or any person cohabiting with more than one woman, and
no woman cohabiting with any of the persons described as
aforesaid in this section," &c., that is, with any polygamist,
bigamist, or person cohabiting with more than one woman,
shall be entitled to vote at any election held in the Territory.
In the .case in -which Mary Ann M. Pratt is plaintiff, she
clearly excludes herself from the disqualifications of the act.
She alleges in her complaint "that she is not and never has been
a bigamist or polygamist; that she is the widow of Orson
Pratt, Sen., who died prior to the 22d day of March, 1882, after
a continuous residence in said Territory of more than thirty
years, and that since the death of her said husband she has not
cohabited with any man."
The same is true in reference to the allegations of the comthe case in which Mildred E. Randall and her husband
plaint in"
are plaintiffs. They are, "that the plaintiff, Mildred E. Randall for more than three years last past has been and is the
wife of the plaintiff, Alfred Randall, who is and prior:to March
22d, 1882, was a native-born citizen of the United States of
America; that she has riot on or since March 22d, 1882, cohabited with any bigamist, polygamist; or with any man cohabiting Wvith ,more than one woman; that she is not a bigamist
or polygamist, and never has been a bigamist or polygamist,

MURPHY v. RAM SEY.
Opinion of the Court.

1
and has not in any way violated the act of -Congress entitled
'A n Act to amend section 5352 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States in reference to bigamy, and for other purposeq,'
approved March 22d, 1882."
The requirements of the eighth section of the act, in refer
ence to a woman claiming the right to vote, are that she does
not, at the time she offers to register, cohabit with a polygamist, bigamist or person cohabiting With more thanl one
woman; and it is sufficient, if the. complaint denies the disqualification in the language of the act. These requirements
to.
are fully met in the two cases just referred
The case of Ellen C. Clawson is different. In the complaint,
filed by herself and her husband, it-is alleged that she "is not
and never has been a bigamist or -polygamist, and is not cohabiting and never has nohabited with any man except her-,
'husband, the co-plaintiff herein, to whom she was lawfully married more than -fifteen years ago, and of whom she is the first
and lawful wife; that the plaintiff, Hiram B. Clawson, has not
married or entered into any"marriage contract or relation with
any woman within the last six years, and has continuously and
openly resided in the city of Salt Lake, in said Territory 6f
Utah, for more than twenty years last past."
It is quite consistent with these atatements, that the husband
of the -female plaintiff was, at the time she claimed registration,
a bigamist, or a poly'gamist, or that he was then cohabiting
with more than one woman ; ,and that she was cohabiting with
him at the same time. She would be? on either supposition,
expressly disqualified from voting by the eighth section of the
act of March 22, 1882, dud she does not 'negative the fact. It
cannot, therefore, be inferred that she -was a lawfully qualified
voter.
The cases of Murphy and Barlow are alike in substance. In
Murphy's case, the-allegations are, "that he has-not since more
than three years prior to 'March 22d, 1882, married or entered
into any marriage contract or relation with any woman,-or in
anywise violated the act of Congress approved July 1, 1862,
defining and pr6viding for the punishment of bigamy in the
-

Territories, .

.

. and has not violated any of the provisions

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

of the act of Congress approved March 22d, 1882, &c.,
and that he has not, on or since the 22d day.of March, 1882, cohabited with more than one woman, and has never been charged
with or accused or convicted of bigamy or polygamy, or cohabiting with more than one woman, in any court or before
any officer or tribunal." in Barlow's case, the statement on
one point is stronger. It is, "' that he has not, on or since the.
first day of July, 1862, married or entered into any marriage
contract or relation with any woman, or in anywise violated
the act of Congress approved July 1, 1862, defining and providing for the punishment of bigamy in the Territories." That
is to say, tllat, although he may have married a second wife, it
was before any law existed in the Territory prohibiting it, and,
therefore, it could not have been a criminal offence when colamitted.
But in both cases the complaints omit the allegation, that,
at the time the plaintiffs respectively claimed to b6 registered
as voters, they were not each, either a bigamist or a polygamist.
'It is admitted that the use of these very'terms in the complaint is not necessary, if the disqualifications lawfully implied
by them are otherwise substantially deni~d. That such is their
case is maintained by the appellants.
The words "bigamist" and "polygamist" evidently are not
used in this statute in the sense of describing those who entertain the opinion that bigamy and polygamy ought to be
tolerated as a practice, not inconsistent with the good order of
society, the welfare of the race, and a true code of morality, if
such there be; because, in the provisor in' the ninth section of
the act, it is expressly declared that" no person shall be excluded from the polls, or be denied his vote, on account of
any opinion on the subject.
It is argued that they -cannot be understood as meaning
those who, prior to the passage of the act of March 22, 1882,
had contracted a bigamous or polygamous marriage, either in
violation of an existing law, such as that of July 1, 1562, or
before the enactment of any law forbidding it; for to do "o
would give to the statute a retrospective effect, and by thus
depriving citizens of civil rights, merely on account of past

MURPHY v. RAMSEY.
Opinion bf the Court

offences, or on account of acts which when committed were
not offences, would make it an exjostfacto law, and therefore
void. And the conclusion is declared to be necessary, that
the words polygamist and bigamist, as used in § ' 8 of the
act, can mean only such persons as having violated. te -first
section of the act, are guilty of polygamy; that is, "every person who has a husband or wife living, who, in a Territory or
other place over which the United States have exclusive jurisdiction, hereafter marries another, whether married or single,
and any man who hereafter simultaneously or on the same day
marries more than one woman, in a Territory or other place
over which-the United States have exclusive jurisdiction."
But there is another meaning which may be given to these
words, which, we think, is the one intended by Congress. In
our opinion, any man is a polygamist or bigamist, in the sensp
of this section'of the act, who, having previously married one
wife, still living, and having another at the time when he presents himself to claim registration as a voter, still maintains
that relation to a plurality of wives, although from the date of
the passage of the act of March 22, 1882, until the day he
offers to register and to vote, he may not in fact have cohabited
with more than one woman. Without regard to the questiont
whether at the time he entered into such relation it was a prohibited and punishable offence, or whether by reason of lapse
of time since its commission, a prosecution for it may not be
barred, if he still maintains the relation, he is a bigamist or
polygamist, because that is the status which the fixed habit
and .practice of his living has established. He has a plurality
of wives, more than one woman whom he recognizes as a
wife, of whose children he is the acknowledged father, and
whom with their children he maintains as a family, of which
he is the head. And this status as to several wives may well
continue to exist, as. a practical relation, although for a period
he may not in fact *cohabit with neore than one; for that is
quite consistent with the constant recognition of the same relation to many, accompanied with a possible intention to renew
cohabitation with one or more of the others when it may be
convenient.

-OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

It is not, therefore, because the person has committed the
offence of bigamy or polygamy, at some previous time, in
violation of some existing statute, and as an additional punishment for its commission, that he is disfranchised by the act of

Congress.of March 22, 1882; nor because he is guilty of the
offence, as defined and punished by the terms of that act; but,
because, having at some time entered into a bigamous or
polygamous relation, by a marriage with a second or third
wife, while the first was living, he still maintains it, and has
not dissolved it, although for the time being he restricts actual
cohabitation to but one. He might in fact abstain from actual
cohabitatiofi with all, and be still as much as ever a bigamist
or a polygamist. He can only cease to be such when he has
finally and fully dissolved in some effective manner, which we
are not called on here to point out, the very relation of husband to several wives, which constitutes the forbidden status
he has previously assumed. Cohabitation is but one of the many
incidents to the marriage relation. It is not essential to it. One
man, where such a system has been tolerated and practised, may
have several establishments, each ,-of which may be the home
of a separate family, none of which he himself may dwell in
'or even visit. The statute makes an express distinction between
bigamists and polygamists on the one hand, and those who
cohabit with more than one woman on the other; whereas, if
cohabitation with several wives was essential to the description
.of those who are bigamists or polygamists, those words in the
statute would be superfluous and unnecessary. It follows, therefore, that any person having several 'wives is a bigamist or
polygamist in the sense of the act of March 22, 1882, although
since the date of its passage he may not have cohabited with
more than one of them.
Upon this construction -tHe statute is not open to the objection that it ig an ex post facto law. It does not seek in this
section and by the penalty of disfranchisement to operate as a
punishment upon any offence at all. The crime of bigamy or
polygamy consists in entering into abigamous or polygamous
marriage, and is complete when the relation begins. That of
actfial cohabitation with more than one woman is defied and

MURPHY v. RAMSEY.
Opinion of the Court.

the punishment prescribed in the third section.. The disfranchisement operates upon the existing state and condition of the
person, and not upon a past offence. It is, therefore, not retrospective- He alone is deprived of his vote who, when he
offers to register, is then in the state and condition of a bigamist
or a polygamist, or is then actfially cohabiting with more than
one woman. Disfranchisement is not prescribed as a penalty
for being guilty of the crime and offence of bigamy or polygamy; for, as has been said, that offence consists in the fact of
unlawful marriage, and a prosecution against the-offender is
barred by the lapse of three years, by § 1944 of the Re:
vised Statutes. Continuing to live in that state afterwards is not
an offence, although cohabitation with more than one woman is.
But as one may be living in a bigamous- or polygamous state
without cohabitation with more than one woman, he is in that
sense a bigamist or a polygamist, and yet guilty of no criminal
offence. So that, in respect, to those disqualifications of a
voter under the act of Mvfarch 22, 1882, the objection is not welltaken that represents the inquiry into the fact by the officers
of registration as an unlawful mode of prosecution 'for crime.
In respect to the fact of actual cohabitation with 'more than
one woman, the objection is equally groundless, for the inquiry
into the fact, so far as the registration officers are authorized to
make it, or the judges of election, on challenge of the right of
the voter if registered, are required to determine it, is not, in
view of its bh~racter as a crime, nor for the purpose of punishment, but for the sole purpose of 'determining, as in case of
every other condition attached to. the right of suffrage, the
qualification of one who alleges his right to vote. 'It is pre- •
cisely similar to an inquiry into the fact of nativity, of age, or
of any other status made necessary by law as a condition of
the elective franchise, It would be quite competent f6r the
sovereign power to declare that no one but a married person'
shall be entitled to vote; and in that event the election officers
would be authorized to.determine for that occasion, in case of
question in any instance, upon' the fact of marriage as a continuing status. There is no greater objection, in point of law,
to a similar inquiry forthe like purpose into the fact of a sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

sisting and continuifng bigamous or polygamous relation, when
it is made, as .bythe statute under consideration, a disqualification to vote.
The counsel for the appellants in argument seem- to question
the constitutional power of Congress to pass the act of March
22, 1882, so far as it abridges the rights of electors in the Territory under previous laws. But that question is, we think, no
longer open to discussion. It has passed beyond the stage.of
controversy into final judgment. The people of the United
States, as sovereign owners of th6 National Territories, have
supreme power over them and their inhabitants. In the exercise of ihis sovereign dominion, they are represented by the
government of the United States,.to whom all the powers of
government over that subject have been delegated, subject only
to such restrictions as are expressed in the Constitution, or are
necessarily implied in- its terms, or in the purposes and objects of the power itself ; for it may well be admitted in respect
to this, 'as to every power of society over its members, that it
is not absolute and unlimited. But in ordaining government
for the Territories,. and the people who inhabit them, all the
discretion which belongs to legislative power is vested in Congress; and that extends, beyond all controversy, to determining
by law, from time to-time, the form of the local government
in a particular Territory, and the qualification of those who
shall administer it. It rests with Congress to say wheth6r, in
a given case, any of the people, resident in the Territory, shall
participate in the election of its officers or the making of its
laws; and it may, therefore, take from them any right of suffrage it may previously have confeirred, or at any time modify
or abridge it, as it may deem expedient. The right of local
self-government, as known to our system as a constitutional
franchise, belongs, under-the Constitutior, to the States and to
the people thereof, by whom that Constitution was ordained,
and to whom by its terms all power not conferred by it upon the
government of the United States was expressly reserved. The
personal and civil rights of the inhabitants of the Territories
are secured to them, as to other.citizens, by the principles of
constitutional liberty which restrain all the agencies of gov

M[URPHY v. RAMSEY.

45

Opinioni of the Court.

ernment, State and National; their political rights. are franchisfs which they hold as privileges in the legislative discretion
of the Congress of the United Siates. This doctrine was fully
and forcibly declared by the Chief Justice, delivering the opinion
of the court in _National Bank v. County of Yankton, .101 U. S.
129. See also American Ins. Co. v. Canter, 1 Pet. 511; United'
States v. aratiot,14 Pet. 526; Gross v. 2Harrison, 16 How.
164; .Dred Scott v. Sandford, 19 How. 393. If we concede
that this discretion in Congress is limited by the obvious purposes for which it was conferred, and that those purposes are
satisfied by measures which prepare the people of the Territories to become States in the Ufnion, still the. conclusion cannot
be avoided, that the act of Congress here in question is clearly
within that justification. For certainly rno legislation can be
supposed more wholesome and necessary in the founding. of a
free, self-governing commonwealth, fit to take -rankas one of
the co-ordinate States of the Union, than that which seeks to
establish it on the basis of the idea of the family, as consisting
in and springing from the union for life of one man- and one
wbman in the holy estate ofuiatimony ; the siiibfoundation of
all that is stable and noble in our civilization; the best guaranty of that reverent morality which is the source of all beneficent progress in social and political improvement. And to
this end, no means are more directly arid immediately suitable
than those provided 'by this act, which endeavors to withdraw
all political influence from those who are practically hostile to
its attainment.
It remains to be considered whether, in the two cases in
which Mary'Ann M. Pratt and Mildred E. Randall and husband are respectively the plaintiffs, and in which the plaintiffN
have shown a title to vote, the defendants who were registration officers, are sufficiently charged witl a legal liability.
As we have pointed out, they are bound by virtue of
their appoihitment under § 9 of the act of March 22, 1882,
'to perform their duties under the existing laws of the United
States and of the.Territory. The law of the Territory then
in force, being "An Act' providing for the registration of
voters and to further regulate the manner of conducting elec.

.OCTOBER

TERIf, 1S84.

Opinion of the Court.

tions in this Territory," approved February 22, 1878, made it
the duty of the registration officers and their deputies "to make
careful inquiry as to any or all persons entitled to vote," and
ascertain in all cases upon what ground the person claims to be
a voter, and it is provided that "he shall require each person
entitled to vote and desiring t6 be registered to take and subscribe in substance the following oath," &c. The form of the
oath is then set out, containing a statement of all the particulars
which, according to the laws then in force, were necessary to
show the qualifications of a voter. It was then provided, that,
upon the receipt of such affidavit, the officer ' shall place the
name of sdch voter upon the register list of the voters of the
county."
Th act of March 22, 1882, created the additional disqualifications which have been mentioned, and which, of course, are
not met by the oath as prescribed by the territorial act of 1878,
and it is not consistent with the express provisions of the act
of Congress, that every person.willing to take the oath in the
form prescribed by the territorial act shall be permitted to
register as, a v6ter. Either the oath itself must be regarded
merely as a mbdel, to be modified by the operation of the act
of Coxgress, so as to meet by appropriate denials the several
new disqualifications created by it, and then to be taken with
the prescribed effect of entitling the person subscribing it to
register as a voter without other proof; or else the effect of
the act of Congress is to limit 'the class entitled to take the
oath in the form prescribed by the territorial act, with the
effect thereby given to it, to those who are not subject to the
disqualifications which the act of Congress imposes. The existing laws of'the United States and of the Territory, under which
the election officers are bound to perform their duties, must
include the act itself, which provides for their appointment and
define' their duties, and if they have not, the right to exact an
oath different froin that, the form of which is given in the territorial act, they must otherwise satisfy themselves that persons
offering to register are free from the disqualifications defined
in the act of Congress.- In doing so, they are of course required to exercise diligence and good faith in their inquiries,

BOA1
1 L v. DILLA.
Syllabus,

-and are responsible in damages for rejections niade without
reasonable cause, or maliciously.
In the two cases last referred to, the allegations of the comonly ihat the several plaintiffs were legally
show,
plaint
"entitled
to benot
registered as voters, but declared that the refusal
of the registration officers to admit them to the list 'was
wrongful and malicious. The ddmurrers admit the plaintiffs'
case, as thus stated, and therefore ought to have been ov~rruled.
It follows that thejudggnents in the three cases in which Jese
J. .Murphy, Ellen C. Clawson and Hiram B. Cidwson, her
husband,and James X. Barlow aire the resp]ective lintiffs,
are ajrmed as to all the defendant&; in the two c.ases in
which lfary Ann X. Pratt and Mildred E. Randall,and
Alfred Randall,her iusband,are the'plaintiffs resbetively,
* the judgments in favor of the ftve d~fendqnts, Alexander
Ramsey, A. S. Paddock, G. L. Godfrey, A. B. Carleton
and r. 1?. Pettigrew, are affrmed; and as to the defenX
ants, . 1). Hoge, John S. Lindsay and Harmel Pratt,,the
judgme ts are reversed, and as to them'the cases are Iremanded, with instructions to overrulk the demurrers,and
,forfurther proceedings. And it isso ordered.

BOHALL v. DILLA.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TRE "STTE OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted March 10, 1885.-Decided March 23, 1885.

To charge the holder of the legal title to land under a patent of the United
States, as a trustee of another, it must appear that, by the law properly
adbhinistered in the Land Department, the title should have been awarded
to the latter : it is not sufficient to show that there was error in adjudging
the title to the patentee.
Pre-emption laws require a residence both continuous and personal upon the
tract, of the person who seeks to take advantage of them.
Tho settler may be excused for temporary absences from the tract, cauged by
sickness, well-founded apprehensions of violence and other like enumerated

causes.

