OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY v. IDE.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Submitted Dezember 22, 1884.-Decided March 23, 1885.

The filing of separate answers tendering separate issues for trial, by several
defendants sued jointly in a State court, on a joint cause of action, does
not divide the suit into separate controversies so as to make it removable
into the Circuit Court of the United States under the last clause of § 2, act
of March 8, 1875.

This was a writ of error for the review of an order of the
Circuit Court remanding a case which had been removed from
the Supreme Court of the State of New York under the act of
Mlarch 3, 1875, ch. 13' 18 Stat. 470. The suit was brought by
Ide, the defendant in error, a citizen of New York, against
the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company, a Kentucky
corporation; the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad
Company, and the Cleveland, Columbus and Cincinnati Railroad Company, Ohio corporations; the New York Central and
Hudson River Railroad Company, a New York corporation,
and the Boston and Albany Railroad Company, the Boston
and Maine Railroad Company, and the Nashua and Worcester
Railroad Company, Massachusetts corporations. The complaint alleged, in substance, that the defendants, being all
common carriers, associated themselves together, under the
name olf the "White Line Central Trapisit Company," for the
transportation jointly of goods from places on or near the
Mississippi River to places on or near the Atlantic Coast, and
among others from Columbus, Mississippi, to Dover and Manchester, New Hampshire; that while so associated together
-the defendants received at Columbus, Mississippi, from certain
persons doing business there, several lots of cotton which, in
-onsideration of certain freight to be paid, they agreed to
transport and deliver to the Cocheco Manufacturing Company

LOUISVILLE, &c., RAILROAD CO. v. IDE.
Statement of Facts.

at Dover, and the Amoskeag Manufacturing Company at
Manchester, New Hampshire; that bills of lading were issued
by.the defendants whereby they acknowledged the receipt of
the cotton to be transported over their line and delivered to
the respective censignees thereof; that the defendants had failed
to deliver the cotton, and that the plaintiff was the assignee
of all claims against them on that account.
The Louisville and Nashville and the New York Central and
Hudson River companies were served with process and appeared in the State court. The Louisville and Nashville company answered the complaint. In the answer it admitted the
corporate existence of the several defendants, and that they
were each and all common carriers. It denied that the defendants had associated themselves together, for the transportation of goods jointly, or that they held themselves out as
common carriers engaged jointly in the business of such transportation, but it alleged that a number of corporations, among
which were the defendants, entered into an agreement td carry
on a fast freight line between cities in the eastern and western
parts of the country, and fixing uniform rates of transportation
and regulating the necessary incidents to such business, which
business was to be done under the name of "The Central
Transit Company," afterwards familiarly known as the "White
Line," and called in the complaint the "White Line Central
Transit Company." It then set out the provisions of the
agreement between the several corporations for carrying on
the line, showing the way in which the business was to be
done, and the earnings and -expenses divided; "and that each
.company should pay for any damage or loss occurring on its
road, and if such damage could not be located, it -should be pro
rated between the companies forming the route over which
the property would have passed to its destination in the.same
ratios as the freight moneys." It then averred "that when
goods were delivered to any one of the said companies to be
transported by said fast freight line, bills of lading therefor
were to be issued in the name of The Central Transit Company, ' White Line,' by an agent of such Transit Company, who,
in his representative capacity, acted separately for each, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

was not authorized to act for such companies jointly, and that
in all such bills of lading so issued it was expressly stipulated
and agreed that in case of any ldss, detriment, or damage done
to or sustained by the property therein receipted for, that company should alone be held answerable therefor in whose actual
custody the same might be at the time of the happening
thereof." It.then denied that the cotton sued for was ever delivered to the line, or to either of the companies composing the
same, for transportation, and averred that if any bills of lading
were ever issued it was done by a person who had no authority
for that purpose, either from the Louisville and Nashville
Company, or any of .the other defendants. It also averred that
no loss had happened to the property while in its actual custody, and that Ide, who brought the suit, was not the real
party in interest therein, but that the alleged assignment to him
was without consideration; and made simply to vest the right
of action in the plaintiff, who was a citizen of New York, and
that the real parties, in interest were the Cocheco Company
and the Amoskeag Company.
It also appeared from the statements in the petition for renoval, that the New York Central and Hudson River Company filed a separate answer in the State court, but that answer
had not been copied into the transcript. The Louisville and
Nashville Company on filing its answer presented to the State
court a petition for the removal of the suit to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Southern District of New York,
which was the proper district, on the ground "that there is in
said suit a controversy which is ivholly between citizens of
different States, namely, a controversy between the plaintiff, a
citizen of the State of New York, and the, defendant, the
Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company, your petitioner, a
citizen of the State of Kentucky, which can be fully determined as between them without the presence of any of the other
persons or bodies corporate made parties to said suit." The
Supreme Court of the State accepted the petition and ordered
the removal of the suit, but the Circuit Court, when the case
got there, remanded it. This writ of error was brought
for a reversal of the last order.

LOUISVILLE, &c., RAILROAD CO. v. IDE.
Opinion of the Court.

'. Joh

. Cad'waladerfor plaintiff in error.

-Mr.Austen G. Fox for defendant in error.
iMm. CHIEF JUSTicE WArITE delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the facts as above recited, he continued:
The petition for removal was filed under the last clause of
2 of the act of 1815, 18 Stat. 471, which is as fdllows:
"And when in any suit .

.

. there shall be a controversy

which is wholly between citizens of different States, and which
can be fully determined as between them, then either one or
more of the plaintiffs or defendants, actually interested in such
controversy, may remove said suit into the Circuit Qourt of.the
United States for the proper district."
As we have already said at this term in Ayres v. iewall, 112
U. S. 187, 192, "the rule is now well established that this clause
in the sectio. refers only to suits where there exists a separate
and distinct cause of action, on which a separate and distinct
suit might have been brought and complete relief afforded as
to such cause of action, with all the parties on one side of that
controversy citizens of different States from those on the other.
To say the least, the case must be one capable of separation
into parts, so that in one of the parts a controversy will be
presented with citizens of one or more States on one side, and
citizens of different States on the other, which can be fully determined without the presence of the other parties to the §uit
as it has been begun." Hyde v. Ruble, 104 U. S. 407; Frazerv.
Jennison, 106 Ui. S. 191.
In the present case all the defendants are sued jointly and as
joint .contractors. There is more than one contract set out in.
the complaint, and there is therefore more than one cause of
action embraced in the suit, but all the contracts are alleged
to be joint and binding on all the defendants, jointly and in
the same right. There is no pretence of a separate cause of
action in favor of the plaintiff and against the Louisville and
Nashville Company alone. The answer of the company treats
the several causes of action alike and makes the same defence

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

to all. For the purposes of the present enquiry the case stands
as it would if the complaint contained but a single' cause of
action. The claim of right to a removal is based entirely
on the fact that the Louisville and Nashville Company,
the petitioning defendant, has presented a separate defence
to the joint action by filing a separate answer tendering
separate issues for trial. This, it has been frequently decided, \is not enough to introduce a separate controversy into
the suit within the meaning of the statute. Hyde v. Ruble,
supra; Ayres v. Wiswall, supra. Separate. answers by the
several defendants sued on joint causes of action may present
different questions for determination, but they do not mecessarily divide the suit into separate controversies. A defendant
has no right to say that an action shall be several which a plaintiff elects to make joint. Sniit v. Bines, 2 Sumner, 348. A
separate defence may defeat a joint recovery, but it cannot delrive a plaintiff of his right to prosecute his own suit to final
determinatioi in his own way. The cause of action is the subject matter of the controversy, and that is for all the purposes
of the suit whatever the plaintiff declares it to be in his pleadings. Here it is certain joint contracts entered into by all the
defendants for the transportation of property. On the one side
of the controversy upon that cause of action is the plaintiff, and
on the other all the defendants. The separate defences of the
defendants relate only to their respective interests in the one
controversy. The controversy is the case, and the case is not
divisible.
It is said, however, ihat by the New York Code of Civil
Procedfire, § 1204, "judgment may be given for or against
one or more plaintiffs, and for or against one or more defendants," and under this it has been held that when several are
sued upon a joint contract, and it appears that only a portion
are bound, the plaintiff may recover against those who are
actually liable. The same rule undoubtedly prevails in many
other States, but this does not make a joint contract several,
nor divide a joint suit into separate parts.- It may expedite
judicial proceedings and save costs, but it does not change the
form of the controversy, that is to say, the case. The plaintiff

PUTNAM v. INGRAHAM.
Statement of Facts.

can still sue to recover from all, though he may be able to succeed only as to a part.
The order remanding the case is
.Affrmed.
MR.

JUSTICE BLATOHFORD took no part in the decision of this

case.

PUTNAM & Another v. INGRAHAM.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.
Submitted March 2, 1885.-Decided March 23, 1885.

Louisvfille & Nashville Railroad Co. v. Ide, ante, 52, affirmed.

This was a writ of error for the review of an order Of the
Circuit Court remanding a suit to a State court. The silit was
brought in the Superior Court of the County of Hartford, Connecticut, by George E. Ingraham, the defendant in error, a
citizen of Connecticut, against N. D. Putnam and Henry Earle,
citizens of New York, and W. G. Morgan, a citizen of Connecticut, as partners in business under the name of Putnam, Earle
& Co., to recover a balance claimed to be due from the-partnership on an account for money lent, paid out and expended,
and upon a note of $5,000 made by W. G. Morgan to the
order of Putnam, Earle & Co., and by the firm indorsed to
Ingraham. The complaint contained simply the common
counts, but a bill of particulars subsequently filed disclosed the
true nature of the claim to be the note, and an account for the
purchase and sale of stocks beginning August 17, 1883, afrOd
ending February 29, 1884.
The defenidants, Putnam and Earle, filed a separate answer,
which contained-i. A general denial of all the allegations in
the complaint; 2. An averment as to the account, that !he
alleged loans were all made to the defendant Morgan Tor his
individual and private use, and not to the firm; 3. An aver-ment as to the note, that it was given for money loaned to W.

