OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

CANAL AND CLAIBORNE STREETS RAILROAD
COMPANY, Garnishee, v. HART.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN

DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

Argued April 24, 1885.-Decided May 4, 1885.

A suit was commenced in a State court, November 4th, as No. 4,414. A petition by the plaintiff, to remove it into the Circuit Court of the United
States, was filed the next day, entitled in the suit as No. 4,414, signed by
his attorneys, not sworn to, referring to the suit as commenced, and asking
for a removal under subdivision 3 of § 639 of the Revised Statutes, and
stating facts showing a right to a removal not only under that subdivision,
but also under § 2 of the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470, and accompanied by an affidavit, made by the plaintiff eleven days before, stating
that "he is the plaintiff" in the suit, as No. 4,414, and giving its title, and
the name of the court, and alleging "that he has reason to believe, and
does believe, that, from prejudice and local influence, he will not be able to
obtain justice in said State court." The State court ordered the cause to
be removed, and the Circuit Court refuscd, on motion of the defendant, to
remand it : Held,
(1.) The affidavit was sufficient for a removal under subdivision 3 of 9, 639;
(2.) The petition made out a case for a removal under the act of 1875 ;
(3.) The absence of an oath to the petition was, at most, only an informality,
which the defendant waived by not taking the objection on the motion to
remand.
H., having obtained a money judgment against the City of New Orleans, in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana,
filed in that court a supplemental petition and interrogatories, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Code of Practice of
Louisiana, added by the act of March 30, 1839, against a street railroad
corporation, as a debtor to the city, praying that it be cited, as garnishee,
and answer the interrogatories, and pay the judgment. The corporation
was cited th answer, and did so, to the effect that it owed nothing to the
city but some taxes. H. filed a traverse to the answers, in law and in fact,
and it was tried before a jury, which found a verdict for the plaintiff, for
a sum of money, on which judgment was rendered. Before it was signed,
the corporation moved to expunge it and to arrest it, for specified reasons.
The motion was overruled, a bill of exceptions was taken thereto, and judgment was signed. No bill of exceptions was taken in regard to the trial :
Held, that the motion in arrest had no more effect than a motion for a new
trial, and could not be reviewed on a writ of error.
The garnishment proceedings were warranted by § 916 of the Revised Statutes,
being authorized by laws of Louisiana iri force when § 916 (formerly §6 of
the act of June 1, 1872, chap. 235, 17 Stat. 197) was enacted.

STREET RAILROAD -COMPANY v. HART.'

655

Opinion of the Court.
The remedies supplementary to judgment, adopted by § 916, were those then
provided by the laws of Louisiana in regard to judgments in suits of a like
nature or class, and not the provisions of the act of the Legislature of
Louisiana, passed March 17, 1870 (Seas. Laws of 1870, Extra Session.. Act
No. 5, p. 10), in regard to judgments against the City of New Orleans.
Questions not raised on the trial before the jury, and saved by a bill of exceptions, cannot be considered by this court, on a writ of error.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
.fr. James R. Beckwith for plaintiff in error, submitted on
his brief.
.rr.
. H..Fa?rar(.Yr.
for defendant in error.

. ifoward .MefoCaleb was with him)

M . JuSTICE, BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 3d of March, 1882, Judah iHart obtained a judgment,
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, against the City of New Orleans, for $121,697.18, with 5 per cent. per annum interest thereon until paid,
and costs, in a suit commenced by him in the Civil District
Court for the Parish of Orleans, and State of Louisiana, against
the city, to recover the amount of sundry debts due by the
city, for labor done, services rendered, and materials furnished,
which debts the creditors had assigned to him. The suit was
removed into the 'Circuit Court of the United States by the
plaintiff, and a motion made to that court to remand it was
denied.
On March 15, 1882, the plaintiff filed in the Circuit Court a
supplemental petition and interrogatories, in accordance with
the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Code of Practice of
Louisiana, added by the act of March 80, 1839, averring that
he had issued a writ of §.fa. in the suit, and, having reason to
believe that the Canal and Claiborne Streets Railroad Company, a corporation organized under the laws of Louisiana, was
indebted to the defendant in execution, or had property or
effects in possession or under control, belonging to said debtor,
he had caused the seizure to be made in the hands of said third

656

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the court.

lierson, and prayed that it be cited and ordered to answer,
under oaththe annexed interrogatories, and, after due proceedings, be condemned to pay the amount of the judgment and
costs. The interrogatories, three in number, enquired' in various forms as to whether the corporation was indebted to the
city or had any of its property. The court made an order that
the corporation be made a garnishee, and be cited to answer
the interrogatories, under oath. A citation was issued by the
court and served on the corporation, requiring it to declare, on
oath, what property or effects belonging to the city it had in
its possession or under its control, or in what sum it was indebted
to the city, and also to answer the interrogatories in writing,
under oath, within 10 days after service of the citation, and
stating that otherwise judgment would be entered against it
for the amount claimed by the plaintiff, with interest and costs.
It was also served with copies of the petition, int6rrogatories
and order of court, and with "notices of garnishee."
.On the 25th of March, 1882, the corporation, without filing
any exception, plea or demurrer,, filed the following answer,
entitled in the suit against the city:
"The Canal and Claiborne Streets Railroad Company, made
garnishee herein, now comes into court, and for answer to the
interrogatories propounded, by and through its president, E.
J. Hart, says:
To 1st interrogatory. No; except taxes of the year 1882.
To 2d interrogatory. No; except taxes of the year 1882.
To 3d interrogatory. No.
And for a full and correct statqfnent of the facts upon which
the above answers are made, rkspondent, further answering,
says, that the privilege of the right of way of the said
Canal and Claiborne Streets 1tailroad Company was granted
for and in consideration of a bohus of two-sixteenths of a cent
per passenger, payable monthly; the rate of fare is five cents
per passenger; that the total receipts of the company from 1st
March, 1870, to 15th, March, 1882, are:

STREET RAILROAD COMPANY v. HART.-

657

Opinioii of the Court.

For the year 1870 ...................
cc cc"
1871 ...................
C cc, cc 1872 ..................
cc CC cc 1873 ...................
cc cc cc 1874 ...................
CC cc cc 1875 ..................
cc cc cc 1876 ...................
c cc"cc 1877 ..................
c
cc cc 1878 ..................
cc " " 1879 ....................
cc cc CC 1880 ...................
cc cc"c
1881 ....................
cc cc cc 1882 ..................

$118,515
152,098
144,373
136,656
115,625
100,095
96,101
89,701
90,205
89,267
95,269
98,591
20,889

20

75
05
60
40
95
60
90
20
-25
45

70
60

$1,347,391 65
Your respondent further says, that the receipts from the
15th March, 1872, to the 15th March, 1882, amount to the
sum of $1,046,918.
Your respondent, further answering, says, that .he is informed,' and believes, that the bonus was in lieu and place of
the license; that the city could not claim both; that it has
ceased to demand the bonus, but has imposed a license on the
company, and the company has paid the same in 1880, based
on the receipts of 1879 ; in 1881, based on the receipts of 1880;
and in 1882, based on the receipts of 1881, viz, $375 each year,
making jn all $1,125, thereby releasing the eompany from any
obligation to pay any bonus for said year. And respondent
further says, that he is informed and believes that any claim
for the bonus based on the receipts of preceding years is prescribed.
Respondent further swears, that the said Canal and Claiborne Streets Railroad Company has already been garnisheed
in the suits of Myra Clark Gaines, Samuel Smith, Subrogee v.
City of lNew Orleanm, No. 2,695 of the U. S. Circuit Court,
and of Cwarles Parsons v. City of 'Vew Orleans, No. 8,088 of
same court, and that, should judgments be rendered against
said company, they will amount to more than the company can
in any event owe.
VOL. cxiv-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

Respondent further says, that the company has claims against
the City of New Orleans for damages caused by overflois in
1869, 181, and 1881, and against which it should have been
protected by the city; and that the amount due for said damages exceeds any amount which would be due for the bonus, if
any was due. For this and other reasons the city has not required the bonus."
On March 30, 1882, the plaintiff, acipording to the practice
in Louisiana, filed a traverse of the answers, and the court
made an order, which set forth that, on motion of the plaintiff,
and on suggesting to the court that the answers were false, and
that the corporation was indebted to the city in larger sums
than stated in the answers, and that the plaintiff traversed the
answers, in law and in fact, it was ordered that the corporation
show cause, on April 5, 1882, why the interrogatories should
not be taken for confessed, and why judgment should not be
rendered against it for the amount of the plaintiff's claim, with
interest and costs. On March 31, 1882, a copy of this order
was served on the corporation.
On the 5th of April, 1882, a stipulation in writing between
the plaintiff and the city was filed, agreeing that all suins paid
by the corporation should be deposited in the registry of the
court, to await the decision whether the money was subject to
seizure under the plaintiff's execution.
On the same day, the traverse to the answer came on for
trial before a jury. The record states, that, "after hearing the
pleadings, the evidence and arguments of counsel, and receiving a charge from the court," the jury found a verdict for the
plaintiff against the corporation, as garnishee, "for the following
sums," naming thirteen several sums, with interest on each,
at 5 per cent. per annum, from 5,specified date, being a total of
$33,684.74, "with interest on the various sums from dates as
above stated, until payment." On this verdict, and in accordance with it, a judgment was, on the same day rendered, that
the corporation, garnishee, be condemned to pay to the plaintiff $33,44.74, with interest at the rate of- 5 per cent. per annum "on thefollowing sums, from the following dates," specifying as in the verdict, until paid, with costs; and ordering

STREET 'RAILROAD 'COMPANY v. HART.
Opinon of th --4ourt.

that the amount, with interest, be deposited in the registry of
the court, subject to the terms of the foregoing stipulation.
The judgment was, on the 19th of April, 1882, amended nuno
pro tune, so as to order that the garnishee pay that amount,
with interest, into the registry of the court, "subje.t to the
rights of all parties concerned." The entire judgment was
signed April 26, 1882.
The corporatio n ihade a motion for a new trial, whicli was
refused on April 21, 1882. It also filed and made a motion,
that the proposed judgment written up on the minutes and
record, against it, as garnishee, be expunged therefrom, and
b6 never signed and made operative, and that any judgment
by reason of ihe verdict be arrested, for ten specified reasons.
This motion was overruled on April 26, 1882, and then the
judgment was signed. To reverse this judgment the corporation has brought a writ of error.
The record contains a bill of exceptions, which states that,
at the same term at which all the Roregoing proceedings took
place, and.before'any final judgment against the corporation,
as garnishee, had been signed, and become final, the corporation made the motion in writing for arrest of the judgment,
and both parties appeared, and the court ovey uled and refused
the motion, and the corporation excepted to the ruling and
judgment of the court in that particular.
It is assigned for error, that the Circuit Court never acquired jurisdiction of the original suit against the city. ThE
petition by which the original suit was commenced in the StatE
court was filed November 4, 1881, and is marked No. .4,414.
The citation was issued and served on the city on that day.
The plaintiff's petition for removal is entitled in the suit as
No. 4,414. It was filed November 5, 1881, and is signed by
the'attorneys for the plaintiff, and states that the suit was commenced about November ., 1881 ; "that your petitioner was,
at the time of bringing said suit, and is now, a citizen of the
State of New York, and a resident thereof;" and "that there
is, and was at the time said suit was brought, a controversy
therein between your petitioner, and the said defehdant, the
City of. New Orleans, who is a citizenof the State of Louis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

iana, and a resident thereof." It also states that the removal
is desired "in pursuance of the Act of Congress in that behalf
provided, to wit, the Revised Statutes of the United States, §
639, subdivision 3 ;" and that the petitioner "has filed the affidavit required by the statute in such cases." The petition
was accompanied by an affidaivit, filed therewith, sworn to by
the petitioner, in the City of New York, before a Commissioner for Louisiana; on the 25th of October, 1881, in which the
petitioner stated that "he is the plaintiff in the case of Judah
Irt v. The City of fNew Orleans,No. 4,414, Civil District
Court, Parish of Orleans, State of Louisiana, and that he has
reason to believe, and does believe, that, from prejudice and
local influence, he will not be able to obtain justice in said
State court." The State court, on consideration of the petition, affidavit and bond, made an order removing the cause.
In the motion to remand the cause, made in the Circuit Court,
by the city, one of the grounds of the motion, which was
overruled, was, that there was no legal affidavit, because the
suit named in it was filed ten days after the affidavit was made.
This ground is urged here, but we do not regard it as of any
force. The affidavit sufficiently identified the suit, and was,
in this case, as effective for the purposes of the statute as if
made after the suit was brought. Besides, the petition for
removal made out a case for removal under § 2 of the act of
Mfarch 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470; and the reference to the prior
statute did not impair the efficacy of the facts. Eemoval Cases,
100 U. S.457, 471. The absence of an oath to the petition
was, at most, only an informality, which could be and was
waived by the city. It made no such objection in its motion
to remand. This view is in accordance with the ruling in Ayers
v. Watson, 113 U. S.594, 598, as to modal and formal matters,
under § 3 of the act. We have considered the question of removal because it goes to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court,
and is raised for our consideration by the record.
The verdict of the jury on the trial of the traverse to the
answer was rendered April 5, 1882. No bill of exceptions
was taken at the trial. The motion to expunge the proposed
judgment, and to arrest any judgment on the verdict, was not

STREET RAILROAD COMPANY v. HART.
Opinion of the Court.

filed till April 21, 1882, and had no more effect than a motion
for a new trial, and, therefore, under our settled practice, cannot
be reviewed here, on this writ of error, although there is a bill
of exceptions in regard to it.
It is contended that when the ft. fa. was issued against the
city there was no law under which aft. fa. could issue against
the city. This point was not taken in the court below. It
does not appear in the motion in arrest of judgment, or in the
bill of exceptions, or in the assignment of errors accompanying the writ of error. It was a point which should have been
raised and saved when the ttaverse to the answer was tried
before the jury. But this was not dome. Still, as the garnishment proceedings were based on the ft. fa., it is proper to say,
that the proceedings in the case were warranted by § 9.16 of
the Revised Statutes, which provides as follows: "The party
recovering a judgment in any common law cause, in any Circuit or District Court, shall be entitled to similar remedies
upon the same, by execution or otherwise, to reach the property
of the judgment debtor, as are now provided in like causes by
the laws of the State in which such court is held, or by any
such laws hereafter enacted which may be adopted by general
rules of such Circuit or District Court; and such courts may,
from time to time, by general rules, adopt such State laws as
may hereafter be in force in such State in relation to remedies
upon judgments, as' aforesaid, by execution or otherwise."
That section of the statute was considered by this court, in Ex
.parteBoyd, 105 U. S. 64,7, and was held to apply to proceedings supplementary to execution, to examine the judgment
debtor in regard to his property, under a judgment rendered in
a common law causo. We are also of opinion that it covers
the proceedings had in this case to reach the property of the
city. Those proceedings were authorized by laws of the State
of Louisiana in force when § 6 of the act of June 1, IS72, ch.
255, 17 Stat. 197, now § 916 of the Revised Statutes, was
enacted.
It is urged that, by § 2 of the act of the Legislature of
Louisiana, passed March 17, 1870, Sess. Laws of 1870, Extra
Session, Act No. 5, p. 10, it was made unlawful to issue any

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court

writ of execution or feri facias, from any of the courts in
Louisiana, agaihst the City of New Orleans, to enforce the
payment of any judgment for money against that city. But
we are of opinion that the provisions of that special act, in
reference to judgments against the City of New Orleans, were
not adopted by § 916. The meaning of that section is, that
the remedies, by execution or otherwise, on a judgment in a
comonoa law cause, in a Circuit Court, shall be the same as
were then provided by the laws of the State in respect to judginents in suits of a like nature or class. "Like causes" is the
expression. By Article 641 of the Code of Practice of Louisiana, it was and is provided, that, "when the judgment orders
the.payment of a sum of money, the party in whose favor it is
rendered may apply to the clerk and obtain from him a writ
of fieri facias against the property of his debtor." It is this
provision, and the garnishee proceedings consequent upon it,
provided by the laws of Louisiana, in respect to judgments
generally, of a like nature or class with those in the present
case, which the act of Congress adopted as remedies for the
judgment creditor, in a common law cause, in the Circuit
Court. And such has been the uniform ruling in the Circuit
Court at New Orleans. iVew Orleans v. Morris, 3 Woods,
115; Hart v. Yew Orleans, 12 Fed. Rep. 292; iVew Orleans v.
Pickles, decided by M r. Justice Woods, in 1879, unreported.
The exceptior made by the State as to the City of New
Orleans may be of force as to suits in the courts of the State,
but it is not an exception which operates J)roprio vigore in the
Circuit Court.
The other assignments of error seek to raise various questions: that the debt of the corporation to the city was part of
its public revenues, and not subject to seizure or levy; that the
city was not made a party to the garnishee proceedings; that
the supplemental petition does not show that the debt to the
city is not public property; that there was no issue raised to
be tried by a jury; that the character and origin of the indebtedness of the corporation to the city were not shown to be
such as would support the judgment against the corporation;
and that the interest included in the verdict was improperly

TENNESSEE BOND CASES.
Titles of Cases.

allowed and erroneously computed. These questions not having been raised on the trial before the jury, and saved by a bill
of exceptions, cannot be considered by this court on a writ of
error.

The proceedings of record appear to have been entirely
regular, and in accordance with the statutes and practice of
Louisiana.
Judgment affimed,

TENNESSEE BOND CASES.
STEVENS & Others v. MEMPHIS & CHARLESTON
RAILROAD COMPANY & Others.
STEVENS & Others v. MEMPHIS, CLARWSVILLE
LOUISVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY & Others.

&

STEVENS & Others v. LOUISVILLE, NASHVILLE &
GREAT-SOUTHERN RAILROAD COMPANY.
STEVENS & Others v. MISSISSIPPI & TENNESSEE
RAILROAD COMPANY.
STEBVENS & Others v. MOBILE & OHIO RAILROAD
COMPANY & Others.
APPEALs

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COUMT OF TE

UNITED

STATES FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
ATgucd October 23, 24 27, 2,.29,30, 184.-Decided May 4, 1885.

STEVENS & Others v. CHICAGO, ST. LOUIS & NEW
ORLEANS RAILROAD COMPANY & Others.
ArPPEAL FRO1 THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Submitted January 15, 1385-Decided May 4, 185.

STATES FOR

