,564

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

growing out of and dependent on a treaty stipulation entered
into with a foreign government" of which that court could
not entertain jurisdiction.
The present case is stronger than that, because the act of
Congress of June 18, 1878, 20 Stat. 144, confers on the Secretary of State the authority to distribute these awards among
the several claimants. ]Frelinghuysen v. Hey, 110 U. S.63.
Not only is the Court of Claims forbidden to entertain jurisdiction of this claim, but the Secretary of State is by law authorized and directed to do all that can be done for claimants,
without further legislation.
It is apparent from the record that the Court of Claims
entertained jurisdiction of the case and decided against the
claimants on the merits. As that court had no such authority,
its judgment must be
Reversed, with direction to di fzigs the petition for want of
jurisdiction.

WALES v. WHITNEY, Secretary of the Navy.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
Argued April 21, 22, 1885.- Decided May 4, 1885.

The act of March 3, 1885, Laws 2d Sess. 4Sth Cong. ch. 853, page 437, restored
to this court appellate jurisdiction in habeas corpus cases over decisions of
Circuit Courts of the United States and decisions of the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia.
Neither this court nor the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia has appellate jusisdiction over a Naval Court Martial, nor -over offences which it
has power to try.
In order to make a case for habeas corpus there must be actual confinement,
or the present means of enforcing it : mere moral restraint is not sufficient.
The appellant, a medical director in the navy, was, under Rev. Stat. §§ 419,
420, 421, 426, 1471, appointed and commissioned chief of the Bureau of
Medicine and Surgery in the Navy Department, with the title of SurgeonGeneral, and served as such the full term fixed by law. After he had
vacated that office, a court martial was ordered to try him inder charges
and specifications for conduct as Chief of the Bureau and Surgeon-Gemn

WALES v. WI-TNEY.
Opinion of the Court.
eral, and the Secretary of the Navy notified him thus : "You are
placed under arrest and you will confine yourself to the limits of the
City of Washington." An application for a writ of habeas corpus
having been denied by the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia; on
appeal to this court it was Held, (1) That no restraint of liberty was shown
to justify the use of the writ of habeas corpus. (2) That the court would
not decide in these proceedings. whether the Surgeon-General of the Navy
as Chief of the Bureau of Medicine and Surgery in the Navy, is liable to
be tried by court martial for failure to perform his duties as Surgeon-General.

This was an appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia, refusing a writ of habeas corpus
to release appellant, a ledical Inspector in the Navy, from restraint under an arrest, made by order of the Secretary of the
Navy. The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion
of the court.
-Yr.J. X.Wilson and X1r. F. -P.B. Sands for appellant.
-Mtfr. John S. Blair for appellee.
M1R. JusTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia, which refused to make an' order on a
writ of habeas corpus relieving appellant from the custody of
the appellee, who, it is alleged, held the appellant in restraint of
his liberty unlawfully.
Upon the decision of the Supreme Court of the District, adverse to petitioner, an application for an original writ of habeas
corpus was made to this court by counsel for appellant, but, on
a suggestion from the court that an act of Congress, at its
session just closed, had restored the appellate jurisdiction of
this court in habeas corpus cases over decisions of the Circuit
Courts,* and that this necessarily included jurisdiction over
* "An act amending section seven hundred and sixty-four of the Revised
Statutes. Be it enacted by the Senate and Rouse of Representativesof the
United States in Congress assembled, That section seven hundred and sixtyfour of the Revised Statutes be amended so that the same shall read as follows:
'From the final de~ision of such Circuit Court, an appeal may be taken to
the Supreme Court in the cases described in the preceding section."' Approved March 3,1885. Laws of 2d Sess. 48th Cong. ch. 353, page 437.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

similar judgments of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, counsel, on due consideration, withdrew their application, and, appealing from the judgment of that court, bring
here the record of it for review.
Rev. Stat. Dist. Col., § 846, which makes the jurisdiction of
this court over judgments and decrees of the Circuit Courts of
the United States the measure of its jurisdiction (except as regards the sum in controversy) over judgments and decrees of
the Supreme Cotfrt of the District in similar cases, justifies the
exercise of our appellate jurisdiction in the present case.
The original petition for the writ was addressed to Mr. Justice Cox of the Supreme Court of the District, and alleged that,
on the second day of March, 1885, the petitioner was arrested
and imprisoned, and ever since had so remained in arrest and
imprisonment and restrained of his liberty in the District of
Columbia, illegally. The petition sets out an order of the
Secretary of the Navy, under which this restraint is exercised,
which order is in the following terms:
" WASHINGTON, February 28th, 1885.
"SIR: Transmitted herewith you will receive charges, with
specifications, preferred against you by the department.
"A general court-martial has been ordered to convene in
rooms numbered 32 and 33, at the Navy Department, at Washington, D. C., at 12 o'clock noon, on Monday, the 9th proximo,
at which time and place you will appear and report yourself
to Rear Admiral Edward Simpson, United States Navy,
the presiding officer of the court, for trial. The Judge Advocate will summon such witnesses as you may require for your
defence.
"You are hereby placed under arrest, and you will confine
yourself to the limits of the City of Washington.
"Very respectfully,
Wm E. CHANDLER,
SecretaW of the .Navy.
"Medical Director
"PHILIP S. WALEs,
"U. S. N., Wfashington, D. C."

WALES v. WHITNEY.

567

Opinion of the Court.
It also makes an exhibit to the petition a copy of the charges
and specifications accompanying this order. It is unnecessary
to say more of these charges at present than that they relate
to derelictions of duty on the part of the appellant while he
was Surgeon-General of the Navy, and as such had charge of
the Bureau of Medicine and Surgery in the Navy Department,
which office he held from August 20, 1879, to January 26,
1881. He had therefore ceased to be Surgeon-General, and
was in the exercise of his functions as Medical Director of the
Navy when this order was served on him.
Judge Cox issued the writ directed to William C.Whitney,
Secretary of the Navy, who had become such by succession to
Secretary Chandler. To this writ Secretary Whitney made return, stating the action of Secretary Ohandler and the history
of the a'ppellant's connection with the Navy since he was appointed Medical Inspector in June, 1873; the charges preferred
against him as Chief of the Bureau of Medicine and Surgery,
and the order of arrest of Secretary Chandler, and closes his
rturn as follows:
"Your respondent respectfully submits that the said Philip
S. Wales is not now, nor was at the time of issuing the annexed
writ, in the custody or possession of, or confined or restrained
of his liberty by, your respondent, other than as appears by
the papers marked A, B, and C, attached hereto and made part
of this return, and that the cause of such detention, if any there
be, is fully shown in said exhibits.
"And your respondent further answers that neither he nor
any one by his authority has exercised any physical restraint
over the said Philip S. Wales before or since the issue of said
writ.
"Your respondent further answers that by virtue of his
office as Secretary of the Navy the said Philip S. Wales, being
a Medical Director in the Navy, was, at the time of the issuing
of the said writ, and has since continually been, in the power
of your respondent so far as the statutes of the United States
and the regulations of the Navy, not inconsistent therewith,
have vested him with authoiity over the said Philip S. Wales.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

"Your respondent further says that he knows of no obstacle
or impediment to prevent the said Philip S. Wales from being
present before your honor at the time and place fixed in the
said writ; but, in order to comply with the order of your honor
and under and by virtue of his authority as Secretary of the
Navy, he has ordered the said Philip S. Wales to be present at
the time and place so fixed. Wherefore the said William C.
Whitney, Secretary of the Navy, has here, before your honorable court, the body of the said Philip S. Wales, together with
the said writ, as therein he is commanded.
"W.

0. WHITNEY,

"Secretary of the iMavy."

To this return the petitioner, by his counsel, demurred, when,
on this demurrer and after motion of the respondent to discharge the writ, Mr. Justice Cox certified the case into the
court in General Term. That court, after full hearing and due
consideration, made the following order:
"Habeas Corpus. Ex relatione PHILIP S. WALES.-NO. 15,80.
"This cause coming on for hearing, and having been argued
by counsel and duly considered, it is, this 14th day of April,
1885, ordered and adjudged that the petition be dismissed with
costs, the court being of opinion that the relator has not been,
nor is he at this present, deprived of his personal liberty by
virtue of the orders of the Secretary of the Navy set out in
the petition.
A. WYLIE."
"By the court:
It is from this order that the present appeal is taken.
The only other matter apparent in the record necessary to
be stated at this time is, that the court-martial referred to in
the order of arrest was duly appointed, assembled and organized, and that appellant appeared before it, and, at his request,
it has been adjourned, from time to time, to await the result of
these proceedings in habeas corpus.
Two questions have been elaborately argued before us,
namely:
1. Does the return of the Secretary of the Navy to the writ

WALES v. WHITNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

and its accompanying exhibits show such restraint of the liberty
of the petitioner by that officer, as justifies the use of the writ
of lWbeas corPus?
2. If there is a restraint, which, in its character, demands the
issue of the writ, are the charges for which the petitioner is required to answer before the naval court-martial of the class of
which such a court has jurisdiction?
The latter is a question of importance, and not free from.
difficulty, since its solution requires the court to decide whether
the Surgeon-General of the Navyj as Chief of the Bureau of
Medicine and Surgery in the Department of the Navy, under
the immediate supervision of the"Secretary1 is liable for any
failure to perform his duties as Surgeon-General, to be tried by
a military court, under the articles of war governing the Navy,
or has a right for such offences to be tried alone by the civil
courts, and according to the law, for offences not military. Is
he, in that character, in the 'civil or military service of the
United States? The difficulty of stating the question shows
the embarrassment attending its decision.
The other question,, however, has precedence, both because
it is the one on which the court of the District decided the
case, because, if there was no such restraint, whether legal or
ilegal, as to call for the use of the writ, there is no occasion to
inquire into its cause.
It is obvious that petitioner is under no physical restraint.
He walks the streets of Washington with no one to hinder his
movements, just as he did before the Secretary's order was
served'on him. It is not stated as a fact in the record, but it
is a fair inference, from all that is fouild in it, that, as Medical
Director, he was residing in Washington and performing there
the duties of his office. It is beyond dispute that the Secretary
of the Navy had the right to direct him to reside in the citer
in performance of these duties. If he had been somewhere
else the Secretary could have ordered him to Washington as
:Medical Director, and, in order to leave Washington lawfully,.
he would have to obtain leave of absence. He must, in such.
case, remain here until. otherwise ordered or permitted. It is
not easy to see how he is under any restraint of his personal

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

liberty by the order of arrest, which he was not under before.
Nor can it be believed that, if this order had made no reference to a trial on charges against him before a court-martial,
he would have felt any restraint whatever, though it had
directed him to remain in the city until further orders. If the
order had directed him so to remain, and act as a member of
such court, can any one believe he would have felt himself a
prisoner, entitled to the benefit of a writ of habeas cortpus?
On the other hand, there is an obvious motive on the part of
the petitioner for construing this order as making him a prisoner in the custody of the Secretary.
That notivo is to have himself brought before a civil court,
which, on inquiry into the cause of his imprisonment, may
decide that the offence with which the Secretary charges him is
not of a military character, is not one of which a naval courtmartial can entertain jurisdiction, and, releasing him from the
restraint of the order of arrest, it would incidentally release
him from the power of that court.
But neither the Supreme Court of the District nor this court
has any appellate jurisdiction over the naval court-martial, nor
over offences which such a court has power to try. Neither of
these courts is authorized to interfere with it in the performance of its duty, by way of a writ of prohibition or any order
of that nature. The civil courts can relieve a person from imprisonment under order of such court only by writ of habeas
cor~us, and then only when it is made apparent that it proceeds 'without jurisdiction. If there is no restraint there is no
right in the civil court to interfere. Its power then extends no
further than to release the prisoner. It cannot remit a fine, or
restore to an office, or reverse the judgment of the military
court. Whatever effect the decision of the court may have on
the proceedings, orders or judgments of the military court, is
incidental to the order releasing the prisoner. Of course, if
there is no prisoner to release, if there is no custody to be discharged, if there is no such restraint as requires relief, then the
civil court has no power to interfere with the military court,
or other tribunal over which it has by law no appellate jurisdiction.

WALES v. WHITNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

The writ of habeas corpus is not a writ of error,. though in
some cases in which the court issuing it has appellate power
over the court by whose order the petitioner is held in custody,
it may be used with the writ of certiorarifor that purpose. In
such case, however, as the one before us it is not a writ of
error. Its purpose is to enable the court to inquire, first, if the
petitioner is restrained of his liberty. If he is not, the court
can do nothing but discharge the writ. If there is such
restraint, the court can then inquire into the cause of it, and
if the alleged cause be unlawful it must, then discharge the
prisoner.
There is no very satisfactory definition to be found in the
adjudged cases of the character of the restraint or imprisonment suffered by a party applying for the writ of habeas cor.pus, which is necessary to sustain the writ. This can hardly
be expected from the variety of-restraints for which it is used
to give relief. Confinement under civil and criminal process
may be so relieved. Wives restrained by husbands, children
withheld from the proper parent or guardian, persons held
under arbitrary custody by private individuals, as in a madhouse, as well as those under military control, may all become
proper subjects of relief by the writ of /abeas conpus. Obviously, the extent and character of the restraint which justifies
the writ must vary according to the nature of the control
which is asserted over the party in whose behalf the writ is
prayed.
In the case of a man in the military or naval service, where
he is, whether as an officer or a private, always more or less
subject in his movements, by the very necessity of military
rule and subordination, to the orders of his superior officer, it
should 5e made clear that some unusual restraint u4on his
liberty of personal niovement exists to justify the issue of the
writ; otherwise ev6ry order of the superior officer directing
the movements of his subordinate, which necessarily to some
extent curtails his freedom of will, may be held to be a restraint of his liberty, and the party so ordered may seek relief
from obedience by means of a writ of habeas corpus.
Something more than moral restraint is iecessary to make a

572

OCTOBER TERM, 1884,
Opinion of the Court.

case for habeas corpus. There must be actual confinement or
the present means of enforcing it. The class of cases in which
a sheriff or other officer, with a writ in his hands for the arrest
of a person whom he is required to take into custody, to whom
the person to be arrested submits without force being -applied,
comes under this definition. The officer has the authority to
arrest and the power to enforce it. If the party named in the
writ resists or attempts to resist, the officer can summon bystanders to his assistance, and may himself use personal
violence. Here the force is imminent and the party is in
presence of it. It is physical power which controls him,
though not called into demonstrative action.
It is said in argument that such is the power exercised over
the appellant under the order of the Secretary of the Navy.
But this is, we think, a mistake. If Dr. Wales had chosen to
disobey this order, he had nothingto do but take the next or
any subsequent train frorp the city and leave it. There was no
one at hand to hinder him. And though it is said that a fie of
*marines or some proper officer could have been sent to arrest
and bring him back, this could only be done by another order
of the Secretary, and would be another arrest, and a real imprisonment under another and distinct order. Here would be
a real restraint of liberty, quite different from the first. The
fear of this latter proceeding, which may or may not keep Dr.
Wales within the limits of the city, is a moral restraint which
concerns his own convenience, and in regard to which he exer-

cises his own will.
The present case bears a strong analogy to Dodge's Case in 6
IMartin, La. 569. It appeared there that the party who sued
out the writ had been committed to jail on execution for debt,
and having given the usual bond by which he and his sureties
were bound to pay the debt if he left the prison bounds, he
was admitted to the privilege of those bounds. The plaintiff
in execution failing to pay the fees necessary to the support of
the prisoner, the latter sued out a writ of habeas corpus.
That emi'nent jurist, Chief Justice Martin, said, on appeal
to the Supreme Court: "It. appears to us that the writ of
habeas corpus was improperly resorted to. The appellee was

WALES v.

VHITNEY.

Opinion of the Court.

under no physical restraint, -and there was no necessity to recur
to a court or judge to cause any moral restraint to cease. The
sheriff did not retain him, since he had admitted him to the benefit of the bounds; the doors of the jail were not closed on him,
and if he was detained it was not by the sheriff or jailer. .If
his was a moral restraint it could not be an illegal one. The
object of the appellee was not to obtain the removal of an illegal restraint from a judge, but the declaration of the court that
the plaintiffs in execution had by their neglect lost the right of
detaining him. A judgment declaring such neglect, and pronouncing on the consequences of it, was what the appellee had
in view." The judgment awarding the writ was reversed.
The analogy to the case before us is striking.
A very similar case was passed upon by the Sbpreme Court
of Pennsylvania* in Respublica v. Arnold, 3 Yeates, 263. A
party.who had been indicted for arson, and had given bail for
his appearance to answer the indictment, applied, while out
under bail, to be discharged -by writ of habeas corpus, on the
ground of delay in the prosecution. The court held that the
statute of Pennsylvania, Which was a re-enactment of the habeas
corpus act of 31 Charles II., ch. 2, spoke of persons committed or
detained, and clearly did not apply to a person out on bail.
And Mr. Justice Yea tes very pertinently inquires "would not
a habeas corpus directed to the bail of a supposed offender be
perfectly novel? " And Smith J., said that the inclination of
his mind was that habeas corpus could not lie to the bail.
In a note to the cases of Rexov. Dawes and Rex v. Zessel,
1 Burrow, 638, the same principle is stated, though by whom
the note is made does not appear. Both these persons were
brought before Lord Mansfield, in the King's Bench, on arule
against the commissioners to enforce an act of Parliament to
increase the army. In both cases the ground on which the
discharge was asked was, that they were illegally pressed into
the service. Lord Mansfield discharged one because his statement was found to be correct, and refused the other because
his statement was not true.
The note to the report, apparently in explanation of the fact
that they were not brought before the court by writ of habeas

OCTOBER TERMI,

1884.

Opinion of the Court.

.corpus, and that no objection was taken to the rule by the
commissioner, says: "Neither of these could have brought a
aleas corpus; neither of them was in custody. Davies had
deserted and absconded, and Kessel had been made a corporal.
No objection was made by the commissioner to the propriety
of the method adopted." In the continuation of Chief Baron
Comyns' Digest, published in 1776, and in Rose's edition of
that Digest, these cases are cited as showing that the parties
could not bring habeas corpus, because they were not in custody. Comyns' Digest, Continuation, p. 345; 4 Comyns' Dig.
(4th ed. 8vo, London, 1800) 313; faeas Corpus B.
While the acts of Congress concerning this writ are not decisive, perhaps, as to what is a restraint of liberty, they are
evidently framed in their provisions for proceedings in such
cases on the idea of the existence of some actual restraint.
Rev. Stat. § 754 says the application for the writ must set
forth "in whose custody he (the petitioner) is detained, and by
virtue of what claim or authority, if known ;" § 755, that "the
writ must be directed to the person in whose custody the party
is;" § 757, that this person shall certify to the court or justice
before whom the writ is returnable the true cause of the detention; and by § 758 he is required "at the same time to bring
the body of the party before the judge who granted the
writ."
All these provisions contemplate a proceeding against some
person who has the immediate custody of the party detained,
with the power to produce the body of such party before the
court or judge, that he may be liberated if no sufficient reason
is shown to the contrary.
In case of a person who is going at large, with no one controlling or watching him, or detaining him, his body cannot be
produced by the person to whom the writ is directed, unless by
consent of the alleged prisoner, or by his capture and forcible
traduction into the presence of the court.
The record in the present case shows that no such thing was
done. The Secretary denies that Wales is in his custody, and
he does not produce his body; but Wales, on the direction of
the Secretary, appears without any compulsion, and reports

WALES v. WHITNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

himself to the court and to Justice Cox as he did to the courtmartial.
We concur with the Supreme Court of the District in the
opinion that the record does not present such a case of restraint
of personal liberty as to call for discharge by a writ of habeas
corpus.
In thus deciding we are not leaving the appellant without
remedy if his counsel are right in believing the court-martial
has no,jurisdiction of the offence of which he is charged. He
can make that objection to that court before trial. He can
make it before judgment after the facts are all before that
court. He can make it before the reviewing tribunal.
'If that court finds him guilty, and imposes imprisonment as
part of a sentence, he can then have a writ to relieve him of
that imprisonment. If he should be deprived of office, he can
sue for his pay and. have the question of the jurisdiction of the
court which made such an order inquired into in that suit. , If
his pay is stopped, in whole or in part, he can do the same thing.
In all these modes he can have relief if the court is without
jurisdiction, and the inquiry into that jurisdiction will be more
satisfactory after the court shall have decided on the nature of
the offence for which it punishes him than it can before. And
this manner of relief is more in accord with the orderly administration of justice and the delicate relations of the two classes
of courts, civil and military, than the assumption in advance by
the one court that the other.will exercise a jurisdiction which
does not belong to it.The judgment of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia is
A4firmed.

