OCTOBER TERM. 1884.
Syllabus.

conversations supposed to have afterwards taken place in his
absence between the counsel and the clerk.
Judgment reversed, and case remanded, with directions to
order the verdict to be set aside and a new trialgranted.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE HARLN

dissented.

ATLANTIC PHOSPHATE COMPANY v. GRAFFLIN.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
Argued April 16, 17, 1885.-Decided Iay 4, 1885.
A contract -was made by A., of Charleston, with D., of Baltimore, for the sale
and delivery, at Charleston, of 2,500 tons of kainii, to be shipped from
August to October, 1880, at a fixed' price, cash on delivery of each cargo.
The kainit was to come from R., at Hamburg. D. procured G., for a commission paid him by D., to send to R. a credit on London, for the amount
of 2,500 tons of kainit, in five cargoes, under which R. obtained the money.
G. paid drafts, against the credit, to the amount of the cargoes. The declarations and invoices by R., presented before the consul at Hamburg, named
G. as the consignee at Charleston ; and the bills of lading made the cargoes
deliverable, at Charleston, to G. or his assigns. These papers were sent to A.,
before any of the cargoes arrived, with an invoice for each cargo, in the
shape of a bill, made out thus: A. bought of G., a cargo of kainit, shipped
by such a vessel, such a quantity, such a price ; and a power of attorney,
under which A's agent, as attorney for G., entered the cargoes at the custom-house at Charleston, in February and Mrch, 1881, as imported by G.,
and made oatr that G. was the owner. A. received and accepted the cargoes:
Hreld,
(1.) G. was the owner of the cargoes, and sold and delivered them to A., to be
paid for on delivery, free from any claim growing out of the contract of A.
with D. or R., for any breachrof-that contract, as to the time of shipping the
cargoes.
(2.) Awas liable to G. for the price of the cargoes, with interest from their
delivery.

Action at law to recover the price of articles delivered by
defendant in error to plaintiff in error. Judgment below for
plaintiff. Defendant below as plaintiff in error brought the

ATLANTIC PHOSPHATE COMPANY v. GRAFFLIN. 493
Opinion of the Court.
cause here by writ of error.
of the court.

The facts are stated in the opinion

_1,. Samuel Lord for plaintiff in error.
Xr. C.IN. TFest and Xr. James Lowndes for defendant in
error.
Mr. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action at law, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of South Carolina, by John 0.
Grafflin against the Atlantic Phosphate Company, a South
Carolina corporation. The complaint sets forth, as a first cause
of action, that the defendant is indebted to the plaintiff in the
sum of $2,792.60, .with interest from February 24, 1881, "the
same being due to the plaintiff for a cargo of kainit, sold and
delivered, by the plaintiff to the defendant," on that day, "at
the special instance and request of the defendant." It sets
forth four other like causes of action, for cargoes of kainit,
amounting to $3,347.55, March 3, 1881; $1,743.37, March 15,
188'1; $5,083.53, March 16, 1881; and $2,483.37, March 18,
1881. Bills of particulars are annexed, shGwing the vessels,
quantities and prices. The total amount is $15,450.42; and
there is added a cause of action for that sum, with interest, as
money advanced, laid out and expended, by the plaintiff for
the use of the defendant, at its special instance and request.
The cargoes are stated to amount to 2,500 tons.
The answer contains a general denial of all the causes of
action. It also avers a purchase by the defendant, in May,
1880, through one Dunan, of Baltimore, representing himself
as agent of one Radde, of Hamburg, of 2,500 tons of kainit,
to be shipped between August 1, 1880, and October'31, 1880;
further purchases by it, afterwards, from the same paties, of
1;550 tons, for future shipment, all by January 1, 1881; the
receipt by it of, and payment for, 1,080 tons on the 2,500 tonse
contract; its receipt of the five cargoes sued for; and its willingness to pay for the cargoes according to the contracts
therefor, subject to its claims for damages for the non-perfq'rm-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

ance, by the vendors, of the contract of May, 1880, in that the
cargoes were not shipped within the time and in the manner
specified in the contract, but arrived when the business of the
year was over, and when the goods were much depreciated in
value; which damages, amounting to $9,586.82, it claims to
recoup.
The answer also avers that the defendant purchased the
cargoed mentioned in the comllaint, at Hamburg, under the
contract, and received the same under the circumstances above
set forth, and was, from the time of the shipment of the
kainit, the bwner thereof; that the invoices for all of the
cargoes shipped by iRadde to the defendant were in the name
of Dunan; that, on January 25, 1881, Dunan requested the
defendant to return his invoices and substitute similar ones in
the name of Grafflin, and it did so, but it never made any new
contract, in regard to any of the cargoes, with Grafflin; that
it never received any notice of the assignment of the contract
or cargoes to Grafflin ;. that, if Graftin advanced money on
the cargoes, he did so subject to the rights of the defendant
under the contract, and was conversant with those rights; and
that Grafflin was the real principal in the contract.
To the counter-claim so set up the plaintiff replied, alleging
that he, and not iRadde, owned the kainit; that it was sold
and delivered to, and accepted and received by, the defendant,
as the property of the plaintiff, free from the claim made for
recoupment; and that he and the defendant never occupied
any other relations than those of seller ajpd buyer of the kainit,
set forth in .the complaint, at the prices agreed to be paid.
The case was tried before a jury, and resulted in a verdict
for the plaintiff for the $15,450.42, with interest on the amount
of each cargo from the datef its delivery; and there was a
judgment accordingly, to renew which the defendant bring
this writ of error.
The bill of exceptions-embodies all the evidence, by a stipulation between the parties, made in this court. There was no
dispute as to any material question of fact. The transactions
originated in the following letter, dated April 29, 1880, from
Dunaii, at Baltimore, to Pelzer, Rodgers & Co., at Charleston,

ATLANTIC PHOSPHATE COMPANY v. GRAFFLIN. 495
Opinion of the Court.
they being the general agents there of the defendant: "KRadde
cables sell Atlantic 2,500 tons best quality Eagle Mine genuine
raw kainit, guaranteed to test not below 24 per cent. sulphate
of potash by the German chemist, Dr. Ulex; to be shipped
during the summer and fall months-say from August to October inclusive-for $7.50 per ton of 2,240 lbs. in taking Hamburg weights. The kainit to be delivered at your Atlantic
Phosphate Company's wharf, Ashley river, port 9f Charleston,
S. C. The price of $7.50 per ton includes cost, freight and
insurance to your wharf. From the price, as the quantity is
large, I will rebate 10 cents per ton. Terms of payment, cash
on delivery of each cargo." Pelzer, Rodgers & Co. replied,
by writing to Dunan, on May 10, 1880, as follows: "We will
take 2,500 tons of best kainit, as described by you, to test not
less than 24 per cent. sulphate of potash, to be delivered at our
wharf on Ashley river, at seven dollars -t&per ton of 2,240
lbs."
T6 enable :Radde to send the cargoes to the defendant, the
plaintiff, who resided in Baltimore, at the request of Dunan,
and for a compensation of one per cent. commission, paid to
him by Dunan, sent to NRdde, at Hamburg, a credit with
Brown, Shipley & Co., of London, for the amounts of five
cargoes, under which Radde drew on Brown, Shipley & Co.,
paying them their commission, and Brown, Shipley & Co.
drew on the plaintiff. They received the shipping documents
from Radde and sent them to the plaintiff, and he paid their
drafts. He directed them to ship the cargoes to Charleston.
The shipping documents consisted of bills of lading, charter
party, consular invoices for entry at the custom-house, certificates of analysis and weight in Hamburg, and memorandum
invoices. The declarations before the United States consul, at
Hamburg, were made by Radde, as owner, and they named
the plaintiff as the consignee at Charleston; and they and the
consular certificates named Charleston as the intended port of
entry. The invoices referred to in, and annexed to, the consuar certificates, named the plaintiff as the consignee. The bills
)f lading set forth that the kainit was to be delivered at the
)ort of Charleston, at the Atlantic Phosphate Company's

OCTOBER TERM, 1SS4.
Opinion of the Court.

wharf, on Ashley River, "unto Mr. J. C. Grafflin, or his as,
signs." The Hamburg declarations and invoices and consular
certificates, were presented by the plaintiff at the customhouse at Baltimore, and he made oaths to entries, before a
deputy collector at the custom-house there, that the goods
were consigned to " J. C. Grafflin, Charleston," and the papers
were verified by the collector of customs at Baltimore, and
were passed by the cashier of customs at that custom-house.
These papers and the bills of lading, in this condition, for all
the cargoes (the bills of lading probably indorsed in blank by
the plaintiff, though this is not clear), were put by the plaintiff
into the hands of Dunan, at Baltimore, and Dunan sent them
all to Pelzer, Rodgers & Co., before January 25, 1881, with invoices made out in his (Dunan's) name, for the five cargoes in
question. On that day, Dunan wrote to the company as follows: "Atlantic Phosphate Co., Charleston, S. C. Gentlemen,
I wish to withdraw all my invoices sent you with the documents for these cargoes, and substitute instead the enclosed
invoices from Mr. John C. Grafflin, as all these cargoes came
out in his name, and you will please return to me my invoices,
'by return mail. In remitting for these cargoes, please remit
in name of John C. Graffiin, through me. In the future, I
will always furnish invoice in favor of name in which the
cargo comes forward. I enclose you herewith -fr. John C.
Graffiin's invoices for the cargoes which are now coming forward, and for which you have the documents." In compliance with this request, the invoices which Dunan had sent
were returned to him by the defendant, and it retained the
invoices from Grafflin. All this took place before any of the
five cargoes arrived at Charleston. The following is the form
of one of the substituted invoices: "Baltimore, January 15,
1881. Atlantic Phosphate Co., Charleston, S. C., bought of
John C. Grafflin: A cargo -of genuine kainit, shipped per
Batavia, Capt. G. Linde, to Charleston, S. C., weighing 400 tons,
sold at $7.50 per ton," etc. The total amount of these invoices
was $14, 50.42. At this time, Pelzer, Rodgers & Co. had in
their possession a*power of attorney, dated August 31, ISSO,
executed by the plaintiff, appointing the members of that firm,

ATLANTIC PHOSPHATE COMPANY v. GRAFFLIN. 497
Opinion of the Court.
five in number, by name, or either of them, his attorneys, to
enter in his name, at the custom-house at Charlestonj all merchandise which might thereafter be imported by. him, or which
might arrive consigned to him, or in which he might be interested as principal or otherwise. When the several cargoes
arrived at Charleston, Mr., Inglesby, one of the firm of Pelzer,
Rodgers & Co., acting under this power of attorney, entered
them at the custom-house there i the name of the plaintiff.
The entries described the merchandise as "imported by John
C. Grafflin," and were signed "John C. Graffin, per Thos. S.
Inglesby, Atty.," and Inglesby took the entry oaths, as agent'
of the owner, to the invoices and bills of lading presented on
entry, and in each swore that, to the best of his knowledge,
J. C. Graffiin was the owner of the goods "mentioned in the
annexed entry."
On these papers, the defendant received and accepted the
cargoes and then refused to pay the plaintiff for them. ie
had confidence in the pecuniary responsibility of the defendant,
and, therefore, was willing to deliver the cargoes, and waive
any lien on them, and accept the defendant as his debtor. The
defendant did not and does not make any complaint as to the
quality of the kainit. No objection based'on a breach of the
contract of May, 1880, as to the lateness of delivery, was
made until after the five cargoes were received. The plaintiff
if advised at the time of any such claim, could have sold the
cargoes elsewhere. He bought the cargoes, but he did not
assume the contract, and he was under no obligation to fulfil
it or to deliver the cargoes. -.But the defendant, in accepting
the cargoes from him, on all the facts of the case, as above set
forth, entered-into the relation of pur6haser of the cargoes.from him, to be paid for on delivery, without reference to any
claim against Radde or Dunan for a breach of the contract of
M ay, 1880. It was admitted, at the trial, that the damages for
such breach were $10,000.
At the close of the trial, the defendant prayed the following
instructions to the jury, each of which was refused by the.
court, and to each refusal the defendant excepted: "(1.) If,
from the testimony, the jury believe that the Atlantic Company.
vOL. cxiv-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

never requested Grafflin to sell them these cargoes, and that
there was no agreement between Grafflin and the Atlantic
Company for the sale by Grafflin, and the purchase by the
Atlantic Company, of these cargoes, the action cannot be supported, and the verdict should be for the defendant. (2.) If,
from the evidence, the jury are satisfied that the Atlantic
Company purchased these cargoes from Radde, and that all that
Grafflin did was to advance money to IRadde or furnish a credit
to him, and that he received the bills of lading from iRadde as
security for his advances, then Grafflin had only a special
property, and his transfer of the bills of lading to the Atlantic
Company was not a sale, and he cannot maintain an action for
goods sold and delivered. (3.) To produce a change of property from the shipper to the consignee, it is essentially necessary that the goods should have been sent in consequence of
some contract between the parties by which the one agreed to
sell and the other to buy: (4.) If the jury believe that Grafflin
was aware of the contract of sale made by Dunan for Radde
to the Atlantic Company, and that the transfer of the bills of
lading by Grafflin to the Atlantic Company was in pursuance
of, and in execution of, that contract, then there was no sale
by Grafflin to the Atlantic Company, and the plaintiff cannot
recover. (5.) If Grafftin had a lien on these cargoes for his
advances to iRadde, and ,parted with the goods without any
agreement by the Atlantic Company to pay his advances, he
has lost his lien and must look to the party to whom he advanced, for his redress."
The Circuit Court instructed the jury as follows: "If the
jury find, from the evidence, that the defendant, through
Dunan, purchased from IRadde, upon a contract- made between
iRadde and the defendant, the kainit mentioned in the pleadings and evidence, and that the plaintiff made the advances to
iRadde for the purchase of the kainit, and had the bills of lading and invoices made out in his name as the proof of his
ownership and the amount of his advances, and forwarded to
Pelzer, Rodgers & Co. his power of attorney authorizing them
to enter the said merchandise in his name as owner, they being
the agents of the Atlantic Phosphate Company, and to deliver

ATLANTIC PHOSPHATE COMPANY v. GRAFFLIN. 499
Opinion of the Court.

the same to the said company, which accepted the merchandise,
then the jury must find for the plaintiff the amount of the
plaintiff's advances on the cargoes in suit, although they may
find that lRadde or Dunan did not faithfully perform the contract spoken of ab6ve, the claim of the defendant for damages,
if any, being against them and not against the plaintiff." To
this instruction the defendant excepted.
The jury having come in with a verdict for the plaintiff for
$15,450.42, with interest from the date of the delivery of each
cargo, the defendant prayed the court to instruct the jury, that
interest was not due on open account. The-court ruled that
interest was due, and so instructed the jury, and the defendant
excepted. The verdict was then rendered for $15,450.42,
"with interest on the amount of each cargo from the date
of delivery thereof, being five days after the date of entry,".
all objection to the form being waived.
The facts of the case, and the views before stated as to the
relati6 ns of the parties, shoiv that the propositions contended
for by the defendant were properly rejected, and that there
was no error in the instructions to the jury-. Indeed, the court
might properly have directed a verdict for the plaintiff. A
contract of sale by Grafflin to the defendant, and of purchase
b~y it from him, arose, in judgment of law, out.of the undisputed facts. The plaintiff had become the owner of the goods.
The defendant, by the acceptance of the cargoes under the
documents, was estopped from treating him as other than
owner. It abandoned, so far as the plaintiff was concerned,
its relation with Dunan and :Radde, and its claim for damages,
and cannot now alter the position of the plaintiff to his detriment.
The "advances" spoken of in the instruction given were the
same as the amount of the "invoices" there spoken of, made
out in the name of the plaintiff. The amount of both was
$15,450.42, and that was the amount of the recovery, being
the sale price. There was no error in the form of the instruction, to the prejudice of the defendant.
There having been a contract of sale, by mutual assent, and
the contract having been executed by the vendor, by the deliv-

OCTOBER TER-M,

1884.

Opinion of the Court.

ery of the goods, the liability of the vendee to pay for them on
delivery, in the absence of other terms, accrued, and the law
raises an implied contract to pay interest, from delivery, on the
purchase money, which was liquidated by, the terms of the 'invoices in the name of the plaintiff, received and retained by
the defendant. Such is the rule of the general commercial law.
Dodge v. Perkin.s, 9 Pick., 368, 388; Foote v. Blanchard,
6 Allen, 221; Van Rensselaer v. Jewett, 2 Comstock, 135;

Esterly v. Cole, 3 Comstock, 502. The case is not one of an
open running account, but is of the class where there is a
stipulated term of credit, which has expired.
We do not find anything in the decisions in South Carolina
which would forbid the allowance of interest in the present
case. In Rice v. Hancock, Harper, (S. C., Law), 393, in 1824,
interest was disallowed on a book account for goods, because,
although there was a special agreement to pay for the g oods
in cotton in sixty days, and otherwise to pay interest after sixty
days, there was no count on the agreement. A like decision
was made in Schermerhorn v. Perman,2 Bailey, 173, in 1831.
In Zindsey v. Bland, 2 Spear, 30, in 1843, on a count for
negroes sold, but no count for interest, interest was allowed
after twelve months, because a twelve months' note was to have
been given. In Ancrum v. Slone, 2 Spear, 594, in 1844, the
rule is stated, that interest is allowable on a liability to pay
monet, if the sum is certain, from the time when, by construction of law, the payment is demandable. In .Kennedy v.
Barnwell, ITRich:, S. C., 124, in 1854, under a contract to pay
a fixed sum for digging a canal, no time of payment being
mentioned, interest was allowed from the completion of the
work. In yle v. Laurems Railroad Co.. 10 Rich., S. C., 382,
in 1857, interest was allowed on the value of cotton lost by a
common carrier, on the ground that the cotton was a cash article at the place of delivery, and its value was taken on a cash
sale, as cash lost by the plaintiff, who was, therefore, entitled
to interest on the value. Iu Arnold v. House, 12 So. Car. 600,
in, 1879, and in CMdlds-v. Frazee, 15 So. Car., 612, in 1880, interest was recovered against a purchaser of land for cash at a
judicial sale.

NEW ORLEANS, &-c., R.R. COMPANY v. DELAMORE. 501
Statement of Facts.

In the present case, the objection made at the trial was not
because of the want of a count for interest, but because interest
was "not due on an open account." The case was not one of
an open account, in the sense.of any rule as to interest, and

the holding of the court, that interest was due, was correct.
Judgment afflrmed.

NEW ORLEANS, SPANISH FORT AND LAKE RAILROAD COIPANY v. DELAMORE & Another.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
Argued April 15, 1885.-Decided May 4, 1885.

This court has jurisdiction in error over a judgment in a suit in a State court
determining the effect to be given to a sale of the property in controversy
by order of a District Court in bankruptcy. Factor's Insurance Co. v.
.i)uqThy. 111 U. S. 738, on that point cited and applied.
The authority of the proper courts of the United States in bankruptcy to adjudicate a railroad company bankrupt, and to administer its property under
the bankrupt act is regarded as settled by the practice and decisions of the
Circuit Courts in several circuits.
A grant by a municipal corporation to a railway company of a right 6f way
through certain streets of the municipality, with the right to construct its
railroad thereon and .occupy them in its use, isa franchise which may be
mortgaged and pass to the purchaser at a sale under foreclosure of the
mortgage.
There is nothing in the laws of Louisiana which forbids such transfer of a
franchise to use and occupy the streets of a municipality by a railroad
corporation.
All franchises of a railroad company which can be parted with by mortgage,
pass to the assignee of the company in bankruptcy, and may be sold and
transferred to a purchaser at a bankruptcy sale.

This was a writ of. error to bring under review a decree of
the Supreme Court of Louisiana reversing a decree of the
Fifth District Court of the parish of Orleans.
The facts, as they appear'ed from the pleadings and evidence,
were as follows: The Canal Street,'City Park and Lake Shore

