PEOVIDENT SAVINGS SOCIETY v. FORD.
Syllabus.

case, we have carefully examined the brief of the plaintiffs'
counsel for light on the subject, but, so far as we can understand, the point is not urged. We are certainly unable to see
how, or in what respect, any equality of privileges as citizens
has been denied to the plaintiffs by the imposition of the tax.
Their property was only taxed like that of all other persons,
whether citizens of Louisiana or of any other State or country.
Not the slightest discrimination was made.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana is
Afirmed.

PROVIDENT SAYINGS LIF9 ASSURANCE SOCIETY
v. FORD.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Argued November 26, 1884.-Decided Way 4,1885.

In a suit against a corporation in a court of the State from which its charter is
derived, to recover on a judgment recovered against it in a Circuit Court of
the United States in a distri6t within the limits of another State, a petition
ly the defendant for the removal of the cause into the Circuit Court of the
United States, which alleges that the defendant was not an inhabitant of
the latter State, and was not personally served with process by itself or its
officers, but does not allege that there was no service of process on an agent
of the corporation in the district in which the judgment was recovered,
and that there was no appearance of the defendant in the suit, is not
sufficient to raise a defence of want of jurisdiction under Rev. Stat. ยง 739.
An allegation by a defendant in a suit in a State court of New York, that an
assignment of the cause of action in the suit by a citizen of another State to
a citizen of New York was colorable, and was made for the purpose of preventing a removal of the cause to a court of the United States, presents a
defence of the action in the court of that State, but furnishes no ground for
removal of the cause to a court of the United States.
The fact that a judgment was -recovered in a court of the United States does
not, in a suit upon that judgment, raise a question under the laws of the
United States within the meaning of the act of March 3, 1875.

This was a writ of error to the Supreme Court of New York
to review a judgment of that court denying a motion for a re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

moval of the cause to the Circuit Court of the United States.
The facts which make the federal question are stated in the
opinion of the e.-irt.
Xr'. E. B. Smith and .0Xr. Step]len G. Clarke for plaintiff in
error.
.Ir. Esek Cowen for defendant in error.
XFR. JusTicE, BRADLEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action brought in the Supreme Court of New York
by Daniel W. Ford, the defendant in error, against the Provident
Savings Life Assurance Company (the plaintiff in error) on a
judgment recovered by one Charles Cochran against said company in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern
District of Ohio, and assigned by Cochran to the plaintiff, Ford.
The complaint contained, amongst others, the following averinents, to wit: "That heretofore and on or about the 12th day
of December, 1876, one Charles Cochran, then a resident of the
State of Ohio, in due form of law, commenced an action in the
United States Circuit Court for the Northern District of Ohio
against the defendant in this action, praying for a judgment
against said defendant for twenty thousand dollars damages;
that the defendant in said action and herein duly appeared in
said action and answered the petition or complaint of said
Cochran, and after trial had of the issues thus joined, at which
the defendafit therein and herein duly appeared, judgment was
duly directed, and,, subsequently, and on or about the 10th day
of October, 1878, was duly entered and docketed in the office
of the clerk of said United States Circuit Court for the said
Northern District of Ohio, in'favor of the said complainant,
Cochran, and against the said The Provident Savings Life Assurance Society of New York, the defendant therein and
herein, for the sum of three thousand three hundred five and
T% dollars damages and costs. .
"This plaintiff further alleges that on or about the 30th day
of November, 1878, the said Charles Cochran, the complainant
in said action and the then lawful holder and owner of said

PROVIDENT SAVINGS SOCIETY v. FORD.

6a7

Opinion of the Court.

judgment, duly assigned and transferred to this plaintiff the
said judgment, together with all his rights and claims thereunder and the interest due thereon."
The defendant, in answer to the complaint, admitted that
Cochran had taken some proceedings in the Circuit Court of
the, United States for the Northern District of Ohio, praying
for judgment against the defeiidant; but averred that there
was never any personal service of process, summons or petition
upon the defendant; and denied any knowledge of the recovery of any judgment as alleged in the complaint, or that
Cochran had assigned the alleged judgment to Ford.
The cause came on for trial in February, 1879, but before
the trial commenced the defendant presented a petition for the
removal of the cause to the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern District of New York, accompanied by a
bond, which was approved by the court. The petition was as
follows, to wit:
"Supreme Court, Rensselaer County.
DANIEL W. FORD
aganst
TIm PROVIhENT SviMGs LIFE* AssuRANcE Socr=

OF NEW

YORK.

"To said Supreme Cpurt: Your petitioner respectfully shows
to this honorable court that it is the defendant in the above
action, and a corporation duly incorporated under the laws of
the State of New York, located and having its place of business in the City of New York, and was such corporation during
all the times hereinafter mentioned, and was never organized
or incorporated under any law of the State of Ohio; that the
above action is brought to recover the amount of a jridgment
alleged to have been obtained against your petitioner in the
State of Ohio, by one Charles Cochran, on the 10th day of
October, 1878, in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Ohio, for the sum of three thousand
three hundred and five dollars and forty-five cents; that said
Cochran .then resided and still resides in the State of Ohio;

OCTOBER TERM1, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

that this action is brought upon an alleged assignment of said
judgment to the plaintiff above named by said Cochran, and is
now pending and undetermined; that the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of costs, the sum or value of five hundred
dollars, and involves questions arising under the laws of the
United States, to wit, undet section 739 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States. Said section forbids 'any suit to be
brought by any original process before either-of the United
States courts against an inhabitant of the United States in any
other district than that of which he is an inhabitant, or in which
he shall be found at the time of serving the writ.' And your
petitioner avers that the said suit in Ohio was by original process, but that the said process was never served personally
upon the defendant in said action in Ohio, or upon any of its
officers, nor was the defendant ever an inhabitant of Ohio'or
found therein, and, as your petitioner verily believes, said
Circuit Court never acquired jurisdiction, and said judgment
is invalid and void, and that such want of personal service as
aforesaid is alleged in the answer in the present action, and
tlat the trial of this action will necessarily involve the construction and effect of the said law of the United States, to wit,
the said 739th section of the said United States Revised Statutes.
I "Secondly. And your petitioner further says, as it is in'formed and verily believes, that the plaintiff in this action is
not the real party in interest therein, but that said Cochran is
the real party in interest, and that said alleged assignment is
merely colorable;. that it was made without any consid6ration
and merely for the purpose of progecuting and collecting said
judgnient for the benefit of said Cochran, and to avoid the
necessity of said Cochran's giving security for costs as a nonresident of this State, and to embarrass, and if possible, prevent
the transfer of this action to the United States courts, and that
the controversy in this action is in reality and in substance between the defendant and the said Charles Cochran, who are
citizens of different States, to wit, the defendant is in law a
citizen of New York, and said Cochran a citizen of Ohio."
The petition then concluded with the proffer of abond and

PROVIDENT SAVINGS SOCIETY v. FORD.

CC9

Opinion of the Court.
a prayer for removal of the cause in the usual form. The court
refused to remove the cause, and the trial proceeded and.resulted in a verdict and judgment for the plaintiff, which judgment is brought here by the present writ-of error.
The question for our consideration is, whether, upon the
petition as presented, and the pleadings as they then stood, the
application for removal should have been granted.
The first ground of removal set forth in the petition was, in
effect, that the defendant liad a defence arising under ยง 739
Rev. Stat., which defence was that the judgment sued on was
absolutely void for want of jurisdiction in the court, because
that section forbids any suit to be brought by any original process before either of the United States courts against an inhabitant of the United States in any other district than that of
which he is an inhabitant, or in which he shall be found at the
time of serving the.writ; and it is averred that the suit was by
original process, and that said process was never served - personally upon the defendait in Ohio (the defendant being a
New York corporation) or upon any of its officers there, and
N
that the defendant was never an inhabitant of Ohio.
This allegation of a defence under the section referred to is
*clearly evasive and inconsequential. It is not necessary that a
corporation. should be an inhabitant of a State, or should be
found therein, or should be personally served with process
through its officers, in order that the Circuit Court. of the
United States sitting in that State may have jurisdiction of a
personal suit against it. It is well known that corporations of
the character of the defendant, desirous of doing business in a
State other than that in which they have their domici], are
generally required to have an agent therein to receive service
of process for them. - This is exacted -as a condition of their
doing business in such State, and herein a corporation differs
from an ordinary "inhabitant" of a State, as that term is used
in said 7739. - This mode of acquiring personal jurisdiction of
a foreign corporation applies to the Federal courts as well as to
the State courts. See Ew jarte IScltllenberger, 96 U. S. 369.
Again, jurisdiction may also be acquired by the actual appearance of such a corporation to a suit brought against it in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Cout.

United States Circuit Court. So that merely alleging that the
defendant was not an inhabitant of Ohio, and was not found
there, and was not personally served with process by itself or
its officers, was not sufficient to raise a defence under ยง 739 of
want of jurisdiction in the Circuit Court, without also negativing service of process on an agent of the defendant in Ohio
and the actual appearance of the defendant to the suit; for,
want of jurisdiction set up to avoid a judgment must be shown
with the greatest certainty. The petition of removal is very
careful not to negative these important contingencies, and that,
in the face of the allegation of the complaint that the defendant did appear to the suit, and did answer the petition and
appear at the trial. Hence we say that the allegation of a defence under the statute is clearly evasive and inconsequential,
and we are not at all surprised to find that when the record of
the Ohio suit was produced it showed that the defendant's
agent was served with process, and that the defendant did
actually appear to the suit and answer the petition, and did appear at and contest the trial, which lasted for a fortnight.
Reading the petition for removal, therefore, in the light of
the pleadings on file when it was presented, we are satisfied
that the first ground of removal set out therein was insufficient.
The second ground was, in effect, that the assignment of the
judgment by Cochran to Ford was colorable merely, and that
the real party in interest was Cochran, who was a citizen of
Ohio, and as to whom the defendant, being a citizen of New
York, was entitled to a removal of the cause, and should not
be deprived of its right by the fraudulent assignment. The
plain answer to this position is, that the action was nevertheless
Ford's, and as against him there was no right of removal. If
he was a mere tool of Cochran, and if the latter was the
person really interested in the cause, the action could not have
,been sustained; for the Code of Procedure of New York declares, that "every action must be prosecuted in the name of
the real party in interest," except in a few cases not including
this. And not alone in New York, but anywhere, if it could be
shown that the assignment was fraudulent as against the de.
fendant, it would be void, and this fact would be a defence to

PROVIDENT SAVINGS SOCIETY v., FORD.
Opinion of the Court.

the'action brought by the assignee. ,We know of no instance
where the want of consideratioin in a transfer, or a colo~able
transfer of a right of action from a person against whom the
defendant would have a right of removal to a person against
whom he would not have such a right, has been held a good
ground for removing a cause from a State to a federal court.
Where an assignment of a cause of action is colorably made for
the purpose of giving jurisdiction to the United States court,
5 of the' act of Congress of March '3, 1875, relating to
removals, hasnow given to the Circuit Courts power to dismiss
or remand the cause at any time when the fact is made to appear.,' And by analogy to this law, it may, perhaps, be a good
defence to an action in a State court, to show that a colorable
assignment has been made to deprive the United States court of jurisdiction; but, as before said, it would be a defence to
the action, and not a ground of removing that cause into the
federal court. We think, therefore, the second ground of removal was'also insufficient.
It is suggested, however, that a suit on a judgment recovered
in a United States court is necessarily a suit arising under the
laws of the United States, as much so as if the plaintiff or de
fendant were a corporation of the United States; and hence
that such a suit is removable under the act of March 3, 1875.
It is observable that the removal of the cause was not claine.
*on any such broad ground as this; but, so far as the character
of the case was concerned, only on the ground that the defendant had a defence under Rev. Stat. ยง 739, specifying what the
defence was; and we have already shown that that ground of'
removal, as stated in the petition, was insufficient. But conceding .that the defendant is now entitkd to take its position
on the broader ground referred to, is it tenale and sufficient
for the purpose ?
What is a judgment, but a security of record showing a debt
due from one person to another? It is as much a mere security.
as a treasury note, or a bond of the United States. If A brings
an action against B, trover or otherwise, f6r the withholding
-of such securities, it is not therefore a case arising -under the
laws of the "United States, although the whole value of the
VOL. CXIv-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

securities depends upon the fact of their being the obligations
of the United States. So if A have title to land by patent of
the United States and brings an action against B for trespass
or waste, committed by cutting timber, or by mining and carrying away precious ores, or the like, it is not therefore a case
arising under the laws of the United States. It is simply the
case of an ordinary right of property sought to be enforced.
-A suit on a judgment is nothing more, unless some question is
raised in the case (as might be raised in any of the cases specified), distinctly involving the laws of the United States-such
a question, for example, as was ineffectually attempted to be
raised by the defendant in this case. If such a question were
raised then it is conceded it would be a case arising under the
laws of the United States.
These considerations show a wide distinction, as it seems to
us, between the case of a suit merely on a judgment of a
United States court, and that of a suit by or against a United.
States corporation; which latter, according to the masterly
analysis of Chief Justice Marshall in.Osborn v. Bank q) the
U2nited States, 9 Wheat. 738, is pervaded from its origin to its.
close by United States law and United States authority.
Without pursuing thd subject further, we conclude with expressing our opinion, that this last ground of removal, like
those already considered, was insufficient.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of New York is
Affirmed.

EX PARTE REGGEL.
APPEAL FROM THE THIRD JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE TERRITORY
OF UTAH.
Submitted April 15, 1885.-Decidedlay 4,1885.

The statute requiring the surrender of a fugitive from justice, found in one of
the Territories, to the State in which he stands charged with treason,
felony, or other crime, embraces every offence known to the laws of the
demanding State, including misdemeanors.

