FORT LEAVENWORTH R.R. CO. v. LOWE.
Statement of Facts.

FORT LEAVENWORTH RAILROAD COMPANYv
LOWE.
3N ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF X"A3qSAS.
Argued Apri1 9, 10, 1885.-Decided May 4, 1885.

When the United States acquire lands within the limits of a State by purchase, with the consent of the Legislature of the State, for the erection
of forts,- magazines, arsenals, dpck-yards, and other needful buildings, the
Constitution confers upon them exclusive jurisdiction of the tract so ac-

quired ; but when they acquire such lands in any other way than by purchase ivith the consent of the Legislature, their exclusive jurisdiction is
confined to the erections, buildings and land used for the public purposes
of the Federal Government.
A State may, for such purposes cede to the United States exclusive jurisdiction
over a tract of land within its limits in a manner not provided for in the
Constitution of the United States; and may prescribe conditions to the
cession, if they are not inconsistent with the effective use of the property
for the purposes intended.
If a State thus ceding to the United States exclusive jurisdiction over a
tract within its limits, reserves to itself the right to tax private property
therein, and the United States do not dissent, their acceptance of the grant,
with the reservation will be presumed.
In the act admitting Kansas as a State, there was no reservation of Federal
jurisdiction over the Fort Leavenworth Military Reservation. The State
of Kansas subsequently ceded to the United States exclusive jurisdiction
over the same, "saving further to said State the right to tax railroad,
bridge, or other corporations, their franchises and property on said reservation." 1Held,-that the property and franchises of a railroad company
within the reservation was liable to pay taxes in the State of Kansas, imposed according to its laws.

This was a suit at law brought by the plaintiff in error as
plaintiff below in a District Court of the State of Kansas to
recover taxes imposed upon it and paid, on its property within
the Fort Leavenworth Military Reservation. The defendant,
sheriff of the County of Leavenworth, demurred to the complaint. The demurrer was sustained by the District Court, and
thd judgment thereon was affirmed by the Supreme Court of
he State. This writ of error was brought to review that
judgment. The facts which raise the federal question are
stated in the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

.Yr. E. E. Cook (-Yr. Thomas F. Tithkow and -r.
Low were with him on the brief) for plaintiff in error.

X. A.

Yr. 1K Hallett Pkillips for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff, a corporation organized under the laws of
Kansas, was in 1880, and has ever since been, the owner of a
railroad in the reservation of the United States in that State,
known as the Fort Leavenworth Military Reservation. In
that year its track. right of way, franchises, road-bed, telegraph line ind instruments connected therewith on the Reservation, were assessed by the board of assessors of the State,
and a tax of $394.40 levied thereon, which was paid by the
railroad company under protest, in order to prevent a sale of
the property. The present action is brought to recover back
the money thus paid, on the ground that the property, being
entirely within the Reservation, was exempt from assessment
and taxation by the. State.
The land constituting the Reservation was part of the territory acquired in. 1803 by cession from Franrce, and, until the
formation of the State of Kansas, and 'her admission into the
Union, the United States possessed the rights of a proprietor,
and had political dominion and sovereignty over it. For many
years before that admission it had been reserved -from sale by
the proper authorities of the United States for military purposes, and occupied by them as a military post. The jurisdiction of the United States over it during this time was necessarily paramount. But in 1861 Kansas was admitted into the
Union upon an equal footing with the original States, that is,
with the same rights of political dominion and sovereignty,
subject like them only to the Constitution of the United States.
Congress might undoubtedly, upon such admission, have stipulated for retention of the political authority, dominion and
legislative power of the United States over the Reservation, so
long as it should be used for military purposes by the government; that is, it could'have excepted the place-from the jurisdiction of Kansas, as one needed for the uses of the general

FORT LEAVENWORTH R. R. CO. v. LOVE.

527

Opinion of the Court.
government, But-from some cause, inadvertence perhaps, or
over-confidence that a redssion of such jurisdiction could be
had whenever desired, no such stipulation or exception was
made. The United States, therefore, etained, after-the admission of the State, only the rights of an ordinary -proprietor;
except as an instrument for-the execution of the powers-of the
general government, that part of the tract, which was actually
used for a fort or military post,.was beyond such control of
'the State, by taxation or otherwise, as would defeat its use for
those purposes. So far as the land coiistituting the Reservation was not used for military purposes, the possession of the
United States was only that of an individual proprietor. The
State could have exercised, with reference to it, the same
authority and jurisdiction which she could have exercised over
similar property held by private parties. This defect in the
jurisdiction of the United States was called to the attention of
the government in 1872. In A10ril of that year the Secretary
of War addressed a communication to the Attorney-General,
enclosing papers touching the iReservation, and submitting for
his official opinion the questions, whether, under the Constitution, the reservation of the land for a site as a military post
and for public buildings took it out of the operation of the law
of March 3, 1859, 11 Stat. 430, and, ii so, what action-would
be required on the part of the Executive or Congress to restie
the land to the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States. The'
.ttorney-General replied that the act admitting Kansas as a
State into the 'Union had the effect to withdraw from federal
jurisdiction all the territory iithin the boundaries of the new
State, excepting only that of the Indians having treaties with
the United States, which provided that vithout their consent
sich territory should not be subject to State jurisdiction, and
the Reservation was not within this exception; and that to
restore the federal jurisdiction over the land included in the
Reservation, it would be necessary to obtain from the State of
Kansas a cession of jurisdiction, -which he had no doubt would
upon application be readily granted by the State legislature.
14 Opin. Attorneys General, 33. It does not appear from the
record before us that such application was ever made; but, o4

OCTOBER TERM, 18S4.
Opinion of the Court.
the 22d of February, 1875, the Legislature of the State passed
an act entitled ', An Act to cede jurisdiction to the United
States over the territory of the Fort Leavenworth Military
Reservation," the first section of which is as follows:
"That exclusive jurisdiction be, and the same is hereby
ceded to the United States over and within all the territory
owned by the United States, and included within the limits of
the United States military reservation known as the Fort
Leavenworth Reservation in said State, as declared from time
to time by the President of the United States, saving, however,
to the said State the right to serve civil or criminal process
within said Reservation, in suits or prosecutions for or on account of rights acquired, obligations incurred, or crimes committed in said State, but outside of said cession and Reservation ;
and saving further to said State the right to tax railroad, bridge,
and other corporations, their franchises and property, on said
Reservation?' Laws of Kansas, 1875, p. 95.
The question as to the right of the plaintiff to recover back
the taxes paid depends upon the validity and effect of the last
saving clause in this act. As we have said, there is no evidence
before us that any application was made by the United States
for this legislation, but, as it conferred a benefit, the acceptance
of the act is to be presumed in the absence of any dissent on
their part. The contention of the plaintiff is that the act of
cession operated under the Constitution to vest in the United
States exclusive jurisdiction over the Reservation, and that the
last saving clause, being inconsistent with that result, is to be
rejected. The Constitution provides that " Congress shall have
power to exercise exclusive legislation in all cases whatsoever
over such district, (not exceeding ten miles square,) as may, by
cession of particular States and the acceptance of Congress, become the seat of the government of the United States, and to
exercise like authority over all places purchased by the consent
of the Legislature of the State in which the same shall be, for
the erection of forts, magazines, arsenals, dock-yards, and other
needful buildings." Art. 1, sec. 8.
The necessity of complete jurisdiction over the place which
should be selected as the seat of government was obvious to

FORT LEAVENWORTH R. R. CO. v. LOWE.

529

Opinion of the Court.

the framers of the Constitution. Unless it were conferred the
deliberations of Congress might in times of excitement be exposed to interruptions without adequate means of protection;
its members, and the officers of the government, be subjected
to insult and intimidation, and the public archives be in danger
of destruction. The Federalist, in support of this clause in the
Constitution, in addition to these reasons, urged that "a dependence of the members of the general government on the
State comprehending the seat of the government for protection
in the exercise of their duty, might bring, on the national councils an imputation of awe or influence, equally dishonorable to
the government and dissatisfactory to the other members of
the confederacy." No. 43.
The necessity of supreme legislative authority over the seat
of government was forcibly impressed upon the members of
the constitutional convention by occurrences which took
place near the close of the Revolutionary War. At that time,
while Congress was in session in Philadelphia, it was surrounded and insulted by a body of mutineers of the Continentali
Army. In giving an account of this proceeding, Mr. Rawlt,,
in his Treatise on the Constitution, says of the action of CGon-.
gress: "It applied to the executive authority of Pennsylvania.
for defence; but, under the ill-conceived constitution'of the
State at that time, the executive power was vested in a council,.
consisting of thirteen members, and they possessed or exhibited
so little energy, and such apparent intimidation, that the Con-gress indignantly removed to New Jersey, whose inhabitants.
welcomed it with promises of defending it. It remained forsome time at Princeton without being again insulted, till, forthe sake of greater convenience, it adjourned to Annapolis..
The general dissatisfaction with the proceddings of the executive authority of Pennsylvania, and the degrading spectacle of
a fugitive Congress, suggested the remedial provisions nowunder consideration." Rawle, Constitution of the United $tates,.
113. Of this proceeding Mr. Justice Story remarks: "If such
a lesson could have been lost upon the people, it would have,
been as humiliating to their intelligence as it -would have been
offensive to their honor." 2 Story Constitution, ยง 1219.
VOL. CIV--34

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

Upon the second part of the clause in question, giving power
to "exercise like authority," that is, of exclusive legislation
"over all places purchased by the consent of the Legislature of
the State in which the same shall be, for the erection of forts,
.magazines, arsenals, dock-yards, and other needful buildings,"'
the Federalist observes that the necessity of this authority is
niot less evident. "The public money expended on such places,"
it adds, "and the public property deposited in them, require
that they should be exempt from the authority of the particular State. Nor would it be proper for the places on which
the security of the entire Union may depend to be in any degree dependent on a-particular member of it. All objections
and scruples are here also obviated by requiring the concurrence of the States concerned in every such establishment."
"The power," says Mr. Justice Story, repeating the substance
of Mr. Madison's language, "is wholly unexceptionable, since
it can only be exercised at the will of the State, and therefore
it is placed beyond all reasonable scruple."
This power of exclusive legislation is to be exercised, as thus
seen, over places purchased, by consent of the Legislatures of
the States in which they are situated, for the specific purposes
enumerated. It would seem to have been the opinion of the
framers of the Constitution that, without the consent of the
States, the new government would not be able to acquire lands
within them; and therefore it was provided that when it might
require such lands for the erection of forts and other buildings
for the defence of the country, or the discharge of other duties
devolving upon it, and the consent of the States in which they
were situated was obtained for their acquisition, such consent
should carry with it political dominion and legislative authority
over them. Purchase with such consent was the only mode
then thought of for the acquisition by the general government
of title to lands in the States. Since the adoption of the Constitution this view has not generally prevailed. Such consent
has not always been obtained, nor supposed necessary, for the
purchase by the general government of lands within the States.
If any doubt has ever existed as to its power thus to acquire
lands within the States, it has not had sufficient strength to

FORT LEAVENWORTH R. R. CO. v. LOWE.

531

Opinion of the Court.
create any effective dissent from the general opinion. The consent of the States to the purchase of lands within them for the
special purposes named is, however, essential, under the Constitution, to the transfer to the general government, with the
title, of political jurisdiction and dominion. Where lands are
acquired without such consent, the possession of the United
States, unless political jurisdiction be ceded to them in some
other way, is simply that of 'an ordinary proprietor. The
property in that case, unless used as a means to carry out
the purposes of the government, is subject to the legislative
authority and control of the States equally with the property
of private individuals.
But not only by direct purchase have the United States been
able to acquire lands they needed without the consent of thn
States, but it has been held that they possess the right of
eminent domain within the States, using those terms, -not as
expressing the ultimate dominion or title to property, but as
indicating the right to take -private property for public uses
when needed to execute the powers conferred by the Constitution; and that the general government is not dependent upon
the caprice of individuals or the will of State Legislatures
in the acquisition of such lands as may be required for the full
and effective exercise bf its powers. This doctrine was authoritatively declared in Kohl v. *United Staes, 91 U. S.367.
All the judges of the court agreed in the possession by the
general government of this right, although there was a difference of opinion whether provision for the exercise of the right
had been made in that case.: The court, after observing that
lands in the States are needed for forts, armories, and arsenals,
for navy-yards and light-houses, for custom-houses and courthouses, and for other public uses, said: "If the right to acquire
property for such uses may be made a barren right by the unwillingness of property-holders to sell, or by the action of a
State prohibiting a sale to the federal government, the constitutional grants of power may be rendered nugatory, and the
government is dependent for its practical existence upon the
will of a State, or even upon that of a private citizen." The
right to acquire property in this way, by condemnation, may

OCTOBER TERMI, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

be exerted either through tribunals expressly designated by
Congress, or by r'sort to tribunals of the State in which the
property is situated, with her consent for that purpose. Such
consent will always be presumed in the absence of express prohibition. United States v. Jones, 109 U. S. 513, 519; .7fatter
of Petition of United States, 96 N. Y. 227.
Besides these modes of acquisition, the United States possessed, on the adoption of the Constitution, an immense domain lying north and west of the Ohio River, acquired as the
result of the Revolutionary War from Great Britain, or by
cessions from Virginia, Massachusetts and Connecticut; and,
since the adoption of the Constitution, they have by cession from
foreign countries, come into the ownership of a territory still
larger, lying between the Mississippi River and the Pacific
Ocean, and out of these territories several States have been
formed and admitted into the Union. The proprietorship of the
United States in large tracts of land within these States has
remained after their admission. There has been, therefore,
no necessity for them to purchase or to condemn lands within
those States, for forts, arsenals, and other public buildings,
unless they had disposed of what they afterwards needed.
Having the title, they have usually reserved certain portions
of their lands from sale or other disposition, for the uses of the
government.
This brief statement as to the different modes in which
the United States have acquired title to lands upon which
public buildings have been erected will serve to explain the
nature of their jurisdiction over such places, and the consistency with each other of decisions on the subject by Federal
and State tribunals, and of opinions of the Attorneys General.
When the title is acquired by purchase by consefit of the
-Legislatures of the States, the federal jurisdiction is exclusive
of all State authority. This follows from the declaration of
the Constitution that Congress shall have "like authority"
over such places as it has over the district which is the seat of
government; that is, the power of "exclusive legislation in all
cases whatsoever." Broader or clearer language could not be
used to exclude all other authority than that of Congress; and

FORT LEAVENWORTH R.R. CO. v. LOWE.

533

Opinion of the Court.

that no other authority can be exercised over them has been
the uniform opinion of Federal and State tribunals, and of the
Attorneys General.
The reservation which has usually accompanied the consent
of the States that civil and criminal process of the State courts
may be served in the places purchased, is not considered as interfering in any respect with the supremacy of the United
States over them; but is admitted to prevent them from becoming an asylum for fugitives from justice. And Congress,
by statute passed in 1795, declared that cessions from the
States of the jurisdiction of places where light-Houses, beacons,
buoys, or public piers were or might be erected, with such reservations, should be deemed sufficient for the support and erection of such structures, and if no such reservation had been
made, or in future cessions for those purposes should be oniitted, civil and criminal process issued under the authority of the
State 9r of the United States might be served and executed
within them. 1 Stat. 426, ch. 40.
Thus, in United States v. Cornell, 2 Mfason, 60, it was held
by Mr. Justice Story, that the purchase of land by the United
States for public purposes, within the limits of a State, did not
of itself oust the jurisdiction or sovereignty of the State over
the lands purchased; but that the purchase must be by consent
of the Legislature of the State, and then the jurisdiction of the
United States under the Constitution became exclusive. In
that case the defendknt was indicted for murder committed in
Fort Adams, in Newport Harbor, Rhode Island. The place
had been purchased by the United States with the consent of
the State, to which was added the reservation mentioned, as to
the service of civil and criminal process. within it. The main
questions presented for decision were, whether the sole and exclusive jurisdiction over the place vested in the United States
without a formal act of cession, and whether the reservation as
to service of process made the jurisdiction concurrent with that
of the State. The first question was answered, as above; that
the purchase by consent gave the exclusive jurisdiction; and,
as to the second question, the court said: "In its terms, it certainly does not contain any reservation of concurrent jurisdic-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

tion or legislation. It provides only that civil and criminal
process issued under the authority of the State, which must, of
course, be for acts done within and cognizable by the State,
may be executed within the ceded lands, notwithstanding the
ccssion. Not a word is said from which we can infer that it
was intended that the State should have a right to punish for
acts done within the ceded lands. The whole apparent object

is answered by considering the clause as meant to prevent these
lands from becoming a sanctuary for fugitives from justice for
acts done within the acknowledged jurisdiction of the State.
Now, there is nothing incompatible with the exclusive sovereignty or jurisdiction of one State that it should permit another State in such cases to execute its process within its limits.
And a cessiort of exclusive jurisdiction may well be made with
a reservation of a right of this nature, which then operates
only as a condition annexed to the cession, and as an agreement of the new sovereign to permit its free exercise as quoad
hoo his own process. This is the light in which clauses of this
nature (which are very frequent in grants made by the States
to the United States) have been received by this court on various occasions on which the subject has been heretofore brought
before it for consideration, and it is the same light in which it
has also been received by a very learned State court. In our
judgment it comports entirely with the apparent intention of
the parties, and gives effect to acts which might otherwise,
perhaps, be construed entirely nugatory. For it may well be
doubted whether Congress is, by the terms of the Constitution,
at liberty to purchase lands for forts, dock-yards, &c., with the
consent of the State Legislature, where such consent is so qualified that it will not justify the exclusive legislation of Congress
there. It may well be doubted if such consent be not utterly
void. - Ut res magi8 valeat quam pereat, we are bound to give
the present act a different construction if it may reasonably be
done; and we have not the least hesitation in declaring that
the true interpretation of the present proviso leaves the sole
and exclusive jurisdiction of Fort Adams in the United States."
The case referred to in which the subject was considered by
a learned State court is that of Commonwealth v. CQary, 8

FORT LEAVENWORTH R.R. CO. v. LOWE.

535

Opinion of the Court.
Mass. 72. There the Supreme Court of Massachusetts ned
that the courts of the Commonwealth could not take cognizance ,of offences committed upon lands in the town of
Springfield purchased with the consent of the Commonwealth
by the United States for the purpose of erecting arsenals upon
them. That was the case of a prosecution against the defendant for selling spirituous liquors on the land without a license,
contrary to a statute of the State. But the court held that the
law had no operation within the lands mentioned. "The territory," it said, "on which the offence charged is agreed to have
been committed is the territory of the United States, over which
the Congress have exclusive power of legislation." It added,
that "the assent of the Commonwealth to the purchase of this
territory by the United States had this condition annexed to it,
that civil and criminal process might be served therein by the
officers of the Commonwealth. This condition was made with
a view to prevent the territory from becoming a sanctuary for
debtors and criminals; and from the.subsequent assent of the
United States to the said condition, evidenced by their making
the purchase, it results that the officers of the.Commdnwealth,
in executing such process, act under the authority of the
United States. No offences committed within that territory
are committed against the laws of this Commonwealth, nor
can such offences be punishable by the courts of the Commonwealth unless the Congress'of the United States should give to
the said courts jurisdiction thereof." In .itohlel v. Tibitt,
17 Pick. 298, before the same court, years afterwards, it was
held that a vessel employed in transporting stone from Maine
to the navy-yard in Charlestown, Mass., aplace purchased by tle
United States with the consent of the State, was not employeo.
in transporting stone within the Commonwealth, and therefor
committed no offence in disregarding a statute making certain
requirements of vessels thus employed. The court said that to
bring a vessel within the description of the statute, she must
be employed in landing stone at, or taking stone from, -some
place in the Commonwealth, and that the law of Massachusetts
did not extend to and operate within the territory ceded,
adopting the principle of its previous decision in 8 Mass.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court

In March, 1841, the House of Representatives of Massachusetts requested of the Justices of the Supreme Judicial
Court of that State their opinion whether persons residing
on lands in that State purchased by or ceded to the United
States for navy-yards, arsenals, dock-yards, forts, light-houses,
hospitals and armories, were entitled to the benefits of the
State common schools for their children in the towns where
such lands were located; and the Justices replied that, "where
the general consent of the Commonwealth is given to the
purchase of territory by the United States for forts and dockyards, and where there is no other condition or reservation in
the act granting such consent, but that of a concurrent jurisdiction of the State for the service of civil process and criminal
process against persons charged with crimes committed out of
such territory, the government of the United States has the
sole and exclusive jurisdiction over such territory for all purposes of legislation and jurisprudence with the single exception
expressed; and consequently that no persons are amenable to
the laws of the Commonwealth for crimes and 'offences committed within said territory; and that persons residing within
the same do not acquire the civil and political privileges, nor
do they become subject to the civil duties and obligations,
of inhabitants of the towns within which such territory is
situated." And accordingly they were of opinion that persons
residing on such lands were not entitled to the benefits of the
common schools for their children in the towns in which such
lands were situated. 1 Met. 580.
In Sinks v. Reese, 19 Ohio St. 306, the question came before
the Supreme Court of Ohio, as to the effect of a proviso in the
act of that State, ceding to the United States its jurisdiction
over lands within her limits for the purposes of a National
Asylum for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers, which was, that
nothing in the act-should be construed to prevent the officers,
employees and inmates of the asylum, who were qualified
voters of the State, from exercising the right of suffrage at
all township, county, and State elections in the township in
which the National Asylum should be located. And it was
held that, upon the purchase of the territory by the United

FORT LEAVENWORTH R.R. CO. v. LOWE.

537

Opinion of the Court.
States, with the consent of the Legislature of the State, the
general government became invested with exclusive jurisdictionover it and its appurtenances in all cases whatsoever; and that
the inmates of such asylum resident within the territory, b3ing within such exclusive jurisdiction, were not residents of the
State so as to entitle them to vote, within the meaning of the
Constitution, which conferred the elective franchise upon its
residents alone.
To the same effect have been the opinions of the Attorneys
General, when called for by the head of one of the Departments. Thus, in the case of the armory at Harper's Ferry, in
Virginia, the question arose whether officers of the army, or
other persons, residing in the limits of the armory, the lands
composing which had been purchased by consent of the State,
were liable to taxation by her. The consent had been accompanied by a cession of jurisdiction, with a declaration that the
State retained concurrent jurisdiction with the United States
over the place, so far as it could consistently with the acts giving consent to the purchase and ceding jurisdiction; and that
its courts, magistrates, and officers might take such cognizance,
execute such processes, and discharge such other legal functions
within it as might not be incompatible with the true intent and
meaning of those acts. The question having been submitted
to the Attorney-General, he replied that the sole object and
effect of the reservation was to prevent the place from becoming a sanctuary for fugitives from justice, for acts done within
the acknowledged jurisdiction of the State, and that in all
other r.espects the exterritoriality of the armory *at Harper's
Ferry was cmplete, in so far as regards the State; that the
persons in the employment of the United States, actually residing in the limits of the armory, did not possess the civil and
political rights of citizens of the State, nor were they subject
to the tax and other obligations of such citizens. 6 Opins. Attorneys General, 577. See also the case of The New York
Post Office Site, 10 Opins. Attorneys General, 35.
These authorities are sufficient to. support the proposition
which follows naturally from the language of the Constitution,
that no other legislative power than that of Congress can be

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

exercised over lands within a State purchased by the United
States with her consent for one of the puroses designated;
and that such consent under the Constitution operates to exclude all other legislative authority.
But with reference to lands owned by the United States,
acquired by purchase without the consent of the State, or by
cessions from other governments, .the case is different. Story,
in his Commentaries on the Constitution, says: "If there has
been no cession by the State of the place, although it has been
constantly occupied and used under purchase, or otherwise, by the
United States for a fort or arsenal, or other constitutional purpose, the State jurisdiction still remains complete and perfect ;"
and in support of this statement he refers to People v. Godfrey,
17 Johns. 225. In that case the land on which Fort Niagara
was erected, in New York, never having been ceded by the
State to the United States, it was adjudged that the courts of
the State had jurisdiction of crimes or offences against the laws
of the State committed within the fort or its precincts, although
it had been garrisoned by the troops of the United States and
held by them since its surrender by Great Britain pursuant to
the treaties of 1783 and 1794. In deciding the case, the court
said that the possession of the post by the United States must
be considered as a possession for the State, not in derogation
of her rights, observing that it regarded it as a fundamental
principle that the rights of sovereignty were not to be taken
away by implication. "If the United States," the court added,
"had the right of exclusive legislation over the Fortress of
Niagara they would have also exclusive jurisdiction; but we
are of opinion that the right of exclusive legislation within the
territorial limits of any State can be acquired by the United
States only in the mode pointed out in the Constitution,
by purch.ase, by consent of the Legislature of the State in
wich the same shall be, for the erection of forts, magazines,
arsenals,dock-yards, and other needful buildings. The essence

of that provision is that the State shall freely cede the particular place to the United States for one of the specific and enumerated objects. This jurisdiction cannot be acquired tortiously or by disseisin of the State; much less can it be acquired

FORT LEAVENWORTH R.R. CO. v. LOWE.

539

Opinion of the Court.
by mere occupancy, with the implied or tacit consent of the
State, when such occupancy is for the purpose of protection."
Where, therefore, lands are acquired in any other way by
the United States within the limits of a State than by purchase
with her consent, they will hold the lands subject to this qualification: that if upon them forts, arsenals, or other public
buildings are erected for the uses of the general government,
such buildings, with their appurtenances, as instrumentalities
for the execution of its p6wers, will be free from any such interference and jurisdiction of the State as would destroy or
impair their, effective use for the purposes designed. Such is
the law with reference to all instrumentalities created by the
general government. Their exemption from State control is
essential to the independence and sovereign authority of the
United States within the sphere of their delegated powers. But,
when not used as such instrumentalities, the legislative power
of the State over the places acquired will be as full and complete
as over any other places within her limits.
As already stated, the land constituting the Fort Leavenworth Military Reservation was not purchased, but was owned
by the United States by cession from France many years before
Kansas became a State; and whatever political sovereignty and
dominion the United States had over the place comes from the
cession of the State since her admission into the Union. It
*not being a case where exclusive legislative authority is vested
by the Constitution of 'the United States, that cession could be
accompanied with such conditions as the State might see fit to
annex not inconsistent with the free and effective use of the
fort as a military post.
In the recent case of the Fort Porter Military Reservation,
the opinion of the Attorney General was in conformity with this
viewof thelaw. On the 28thof February, 1842, the Legislature
of New York authorized the commissioners of its land office
to cede to the United States the title to certain land belonging
to the State within her limits, "for military purposes, reserving a
free and uninterrupted use and control in the canal commissioners
of all that, may be necessary for canal and harbor purposes."
Under this act the title was conveyed to the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

The act also ced.d to them jurisdiction over the land. In I880,
the superintendent of public works in New York, upon whom
the duties of canal commissioner were devolved, informed the
Secretary of War that the interests of the State required that
the land, or a portion of it, should be occupied by her for
canal purposes, claiming the right to thus occupy. it under the
reservation in the act of cession. The opinion of the Attorney
General was, therefore, requested as to the authority of the
Secretary of War to permit the State, under these considerations, to use so much of the land as would not interfere with
its use for military purposes. The Attorney General replied
that the United States, under the grant, held the land for military purposes, and that the reservation in favor of the State
could be deemed valid only so far as it was not repugnant to
the grant; that, hence, the right of the State to occupy and use
the premises for canal or harbor purposes must be regarded as
limited or restricted by the purposes of the grant; that, when
such use and occupation would defeat or interfere with those
purposes, the right of the State did not exist; but, when they
would not interfere with those purposes, the State was entitled
to use so much of the land as might be necessary for her canal
and harbor purposes. 16 Opin. Attorneys General, 592.
We are here met with the objection that the Legislature of a
State has no power to cede away her jurisdiction and legislative
power over any portion of her territory, except as such cession
follows under the Constitution from. her consent to a purchase
by the United States for some one of the purposes mentioned.
If this were so, it would not aid the railroad company; the
Jurisdiction of the State would then remain as it previously existed. But aside from this consideration, it is undoubtedly true
that the State, whether represented by her Legislature, or
through a convention specially called for that purpose, is incompetent to cede her political jurisdiction and legislative authority over auy part of her territory to a foreign country,
without the concurrence of the general government. The
jurisdiction of the United States extends over all the territory
within the States, and, therefore, their authority must be obtained, as well as that of the State within which the territory

FORT LEAVENWORTH R.R. CO. v. LOWE.

541

Opinion of the Court.

is situated, before any cession of sovereignty or political jurisdiction can be made to a foreign country. And so when
questions arose as to the northeastern boundary, in Maine, between .Great Britain and the United States, and negotiations
were in progress for a treaty to settle the boundary, it was
deemed necessary on the part of our government to secure the
co-operation and concurrence of Maine, so far as such settlement might involve a cession of her sovereignty and jurisdiction
as well as title to territory claimed by her,and of Massachusetts,
so far as it might involve a cession of title to lands held by her.
Both Maine and Massachusetts appointed commissioners to act
with the Secretary of State, and after much negotiation the
claims of the two States were adjusted, and the disputedquestions of boundary settled. The commissioners of Maine
were appointed by her Legislature; and those of Massachusetts
by her Governor under authority of an act of her Legislature.
It was not deemed necessary to call a convention of the people
in either of them to give to the commissioners the requisite authority to act effectively for their respective States. 5 Webster's Works, 99; 6 Tb. 273.
In their relation to the general government, the States of
he Union stand in a very different position from that which
they hold to foreign governments. Though the jurisdiction
and authority of the general government are essentially different from those of the State, they are not those of a different country; and the two, the State and general government,
may deal with each other in any way they may deem best to
carry out the purposes of the Constitution. It is for the protection and interests of the States, their people and property,
as well as for the protection and interests of the people generally of the United States, that forts, arsenals, and other buildings for public, uses are constructed within the States. As
instrumentalities for the execution of the powers of the general government, they are, as already said, exempt from such
control of the States as would- defeat or impair their use for
those purposes; and if, to their more effective use, a cession of
legislativp authority and political jfirisdiction by the State
would be desirable, we do not perceive any objection to its

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

grant by the Legislat~ire of the State. Such cession is really
as much for the benefit of the State as it is for the benefit of
the United States. It is necessarily temporary, to be exercised
only so long as the places continue to be used for the public
purposes for which the property was acquired or reserved from
sale. When they cease to be thus used, the jurisdiction reverts
to the State.
The Military Reservation of Fort Leavenworth was not, as
already said, acquired by purchase with the consent of Kansas.
And her cession of jurisdiction is not of exclusive legislative
authority over the land, except so far as that may be necessary
for its use as-a military post; and it is not contended that the
saving clause in the act of cession interferes with such use.
There is, therefore, no constitutional prohibition against the
enforcement of that clause. The right of the State to subject
the railroad property to taxation exists as before the cession.
The invalidity of the tax levied not being asserted on any
other ground than the supposed exclusive jurisdiction of the
United States over the reservation notwithstanding the saving
clause, the judgment of the court below must be
Afflrm e(.

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC RAILWAY
COfPANY v. XcGLINN.
IN

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
Argued April 17, 1885.-Declded May 4, 18M5.

FortLeaoenworth v. Lowe, ante, 525, affirmed and applied to this ease.
The general principle that when political jurisdiction and legislative power
over a territory are transferred from one sovereign to another, the municipal
laws of the territory continue in force until abrogated by the new sovereign,
is applicable-as to territory owned by the United States, the exclusive jurisdiction of which is ceded to them by a State in a manner not provided for
by the Constitution-to so much thereof as is not used by the United States
for its forts, buildings and other needful public purposes..
The State of Kansas ceded to the United States exclusive jurisdiction over the

