OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

the Land Department of the Government that the lands were
withdrawn from market, and he made his entry without any
actual knowledge of the filing of the company's map with the
Secretary, or of his order to withdraw the lands from market.
Subsequently the company applied to the Land Department
for a patent of the lands, and tendered the necessary fees and
charges. The application was- refused on the ground that
Irvin's right of entry had attached to the lands, and a patent
for them had been issued to him. The plaintiff deraigned title
from the railroad company, and the defendant deraigned title
from Irvin, by deed, for which he paid a valuable consideration,
without notice of the claim of the plaintiff. It thus appears
that the defendant, made his entry, and therefore acquired
whatever rights he possesses after the map of the company
designating its route had been filed with the Secretary'of the
Interior, March 25, 1870, and the route had thereby become
definitely established' The title of the company to the adjoin,
ing odd sections was then fixed. No rights could be initiated
subsequently which could affect that title. The entry of the
defendant being on the 8th of April afterwards created no
interest in him, and the patent issued upon that entry passed
none.
All other questions presented in this case are fully considered in -an Iyck .v. Knevals, and we see no ground tochange
the conclusions then reached. For the reasons there stated the
decree of the court below must, therefore, be,
.4ffirmed.

PENN BANK v. FURNESS & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE Ui'NITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued March 31, April 1, 1885.-Decided April 13, 1885.

A, B, & C, -being partners in business, and all believing the firm to be solvent,
C withdraws. A & B pay C a fixed sum as his capital and continue the
business. They borrow money of a bank on the notes and responsibility of

PENN BANK v. FURNESS.
Opinion of the Coqurt.
the new firm, part of which is used to pay to C his capital, and then fail,
owing the money so borrowed.

It turns out that the old firm was insolvent

at the timepf the dissolution, and C contributes towards the discharge of
its liabilities an amount in excess of the arhount of capital so drawn out by

him. In a suit in equity by the bank to charge the old firm with the
money loaned to the new firm : Held, That this could not be done, as tle
transaction was entirely between, the bank and the new firm.

Bill in equity. The facts which make the case are stated in
the opinion of the court.
Xr. Nathan IT Saryless for appellants.
-Yr&. Samuel Dickson, (k. E. G. _Platt was with him) for
appellant, Francis Brinle#, administrator.
Ar. C rles Rart for appellees; James T. Furness, Joshua
P. Ash, William H. Ash, and Dawes E. Furness.
MR. JUSTICE FIELI delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit by the Penn :National Bank to charge the firm
of Furness, Brinley & Co., of Philadelphia, with moneys obtained from the bank by the firm of Furness, Ash & Co., of
that city, in a discount of its paper, and used in payment of
the debts of the first firm, and also to charge the defendant,
Edward L. Brinley, with the moneys thus obtained by Furness,
Ash & Co. which were used to pay its debt to him.
It appears, from the record that for many years preceding
January 1, 1878, the firm of Furness, Brinley & Co. was engaged in business as auctioneers in the city of Philadelphia,
and was in good standing and credit. It consisted, up to Oc!
tober 1, 1878, of James T. Furness, Edward L. Brinlev, Joshua
P. Ash, William H. Ash,'Henry Day, and Dawes E. Furness.
At that time Henry Day and Dawes E. Furness retired from
the firm. Soon afterwards Edward L. Brinley expressed a "desire also to retire from it." An agreement was accordingly
entered into between him and James T. Furness and Joshua P.
Ash to the effect that he should retire, his retirement to take
place as of the 1st of July, 1877, but not to be announced
until the 1st of January, 1878, and that he was to withdraw

OCTOBER TERTM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

as his capital in the firm, $25,000, to be paid in monthly payments of $5,000, commencing on the 1st of December, 1877.
For the payment of this amount James T. Furness and Joshua
P. Ash made themselves individually liable. On the 1st of
January, ISTS, Brinley's retirement was accordingly announced,
and a new firm was then formed, under the name of Furness,
Ash &" Co., consisting of James T. Furness, Joshua P. Ash,
and William. H. Ash, to continue the same business at the same
stand, as successors of Furness, Brinley & Co. This new firm
existed only till the 15th of March following, when it failed.
During its continuance it obtained large discounts of its paper
at the Penn National Bank, and from other parties, and the
money derived from them was used by it, among other purposes, to pay the instahnents of 65,000 each month to Edward
L. Brinley, the retired partner. Of the amount agreed upon
820,000 were thus paid. On the retirement of Edward L.
Brinley from the old firm and the formation of the new firm,
the insolvent condition of the old firm was unknown to its
members; but upon an examination of their books after the
failure of the new firm, it appeared that the old firm was in
fact insolvent on the 1st of July, 1877, and on the first day of
January, 1878. The bill in thepresent case charges that this
agreement for the retirement of Brinley, and the payment to
him of $25,000, was made with knowledge of the insolvency
of the old firm and upon a corrupt conspiracy between the
partners to enable Brinley to fraudulently withdraw his capital
from the firm, and escape liability for its debts. It also charges
that the discounts of the paper of the new firm were promoted
by false'statements, on the part of Edward L. Brinley, to influence parties who discounted the paper, and that they were
made to carry out the corrupt scheme mentioned. All the allegations of fraud and conspiracy are explicitly and emphatically denied in the answers of the defendants, and they are
wholly unsustained by the proofs. Although the business of
the old firm for the last years of its existence was loosely conducted, there is not the slightest evidence that any of its members, except perhaps James G. Furness, had a suspicion of its
insolvent condition. He may have suspected its condition, but,

PEINi

BANK v. FURNESS.
Opinion of the Court.

if so, he kept his suspicions to himself, in no way intimating
them to the-other members of the firm. He kept the accounts
of the 1partnership, and it does not appear that any other member, knew anything of them. It is clear that they believed the
firm was financially sound, and not only capable of paying all
its debts, but that there was a large surplus. It also appears
that the plaintiff bank at the time it discounted the paper of
Furness, Ash & Co.knew who composed that firi and relied
.entirely upon its solvency to meet its obligations.
The case, then, stands thus: Certain members of the co-partnership agreed to pay another member a fixed amount as his
capital on his withdrawal from the concern, all parties believing at the thhe in the firm's solvent condition. The member
accordingly withdraws and a new. partnership is thereupon
formed between the remaining members. The new firm on its
own -responsibility borrows money on its notes from different
parties, among others from the plaintiff, who were acquainted
with its members, and pays part .of the capital as agreed upon
to the retiring member and also some of the debts of the old
firm. Soon afterwards the new firm fails, and the plaintiff
bank now seeks to charge the 61( firm with the moneys thus
loaned, which were used to pay its debts, and the retiring
member for the amount due to him. We are clear that this
cannot be done. The discount was a transaction entirely between the new firm and the plaintiff. No credit was given to
the old firm or to the retired partner. It was not a matter be:
tween the bank and either of them. It is simply a common
instance of credit given to an insolvent firm without knowledge
by the lender of its insolvency . and in the course of business
the loss is to be ascribed to over-confidence in the firm's responsibility, whilst in ignorance of its true condition.
The old firm remains liable for its debts contracted whilst it
was in existence and unpaid, and the retired member as a partner in that firm is liable with the other partners; and it seems
from the record, that since the failure of the new firm he has
himself discharged outstanding liabilities of the old firm
amounting to over $37,000, exceeding by about $17,000 the
sums paid to him by the new firm. The new firm is alone

OCTOBER TERAI, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

liable for the debts of its own contracting. They cannot be
transferred to others with whom the plaintiff never dealt.
The case is different from those where a retiring partner
draws out a portion of the capital of the concern with an agreement that the other members will pay the debts, and it turns
out that the firm was at the time insolvent. There the retiring party will be held to restore the capital, so far as may be
necessary to pay the debt of the concern existing at the time,
and this, too, whether there was any fraud designed in the.
transaction or not. He cannot be permitted to remove any
portion of the capital of the insolvent concern beyond the reach
of its existing creditors, if necessary to satisfy their demands,
nor, if there be any scheme of future fraud in the removal,
beyond the reach of its future creditors. Here the defendant
Brinley has paid, as already mentioned, in the discharge of the
debts of the old firm, several thousand dollars more than he
received as his capital in that concern from the new firm.
There has been no attempt at any time on his part to avoid the
liabilities falling upon him as one of the partners in that firm.
The case of Anderson v. .Xaltby, 2 Ves. Jr. 244, to which
counsel of appellant refers as a beacon-light for nearly a hundred years in this branch of the law, differs from the one at
bar in essential particulars. There upon the retirement of a
partner in the 'firm of Maltby & Sons a fictitious account was
made up, showing an indebtedness to him of several thousand
pounds, which was entered upon the books of the firm. This
was done without any examination of the books at the time,
or valuation of the property of the firm, or calculation of its
debts, and no public notice was given of the retirement of the
partner, except by changing the title of the firm in the books
of the Bank of England, and other books, from Maltby & Sons
to IMaltby & Son. The other members continued the partnership and failed. On a bill filed by its assignee, an account
was decreed in favor of the new partnership against the retiring partner for the moneys thus received, owing to the circumstances of fraud attending the transaction. In deciding the
case the Chancellor, after observing that when partners make
up an account of profits, which do not' exist, it is colorable,

AURRECOECHEA v. BAXGS.
Syllabus.

said.: "If at the close of the former partnership be (the retiring
partner) was bona ftde entitled, a11 the payments were just and
legal: if he was not bona fide entitled to any demand, on account of -the former partnership, as against the two about to
form a new partnership, but that, to the knowledge and conviction of all three, was mere color, and not a real but a nominal
transaction, all the Payments wbre made not only without consideration, but upon a bad consideration, and such as a court of
equity, and, I think, a court of law equally ought to dondemn."
This i nothing more than declaring that a suit will lie by the
assignee of a bankrupt concern to compel a retired partner
to account for moneys paid to hhnby the fiarn upon a fraudulent
claim.
In the case at bar there was no fraudulent claim advanced.
The amount to be paid Brinley was for the capital put by him
into the firm of Furness, Brinley &.Co., all the partners, except perhaps one of them, supposing at the time of his retirement that the firm was not only solvent, but in possession,
of a large surplus; and the plaintiff is neither the new company nor its assignee, but the bank, Which lent money to that
company upon its shpposed solvency, and now seeks to charge
the parties to whom the company paid it in discharge of its
obligations. Equity does not folow money thus lent into the
hands of persons tb whom it has been paid in dis.charge of obligations to them and with whom the lender had no relations.
Decree affirmed.

AURREOOEOHEA v. BANGS.
I

ERROR TO THE SUPRE3,tE COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted January 5, 1885.-Decided April 13,1885.

Lands covered by a claim under Mexican or Spanish grants, but not found
within the limits of the final survey of the grant when made, are within the
excepting clause of the act of July 28, 1866,14 Stat. 218, and are restored to
the public domain by the survey.

