OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

new rYsult, the product of their joint use.

The result attained

is merely the reflection of an object in a mirror. The hood and
the glass panel in the end of the car do not change in any degree the function of the mirror. It is used as a mirror only.
The function of the hood is not changed by the mirror or glass
panel, or both. It is a hood only on which, as in the wall of a
room, the mirror is hung. The use of a glass, instead of a
wooden panel, in the front end of the car, simply removes an
opaque obstacle between the mirror and the object to be reflected by it. iNeither one of the three elements of the alleged
combination performs any new office or imparts any new power
to the others, and, combined, they do not produce any new result or any old result more cheaply or otherwise more advantageously. There is, therefore, no patentable combination.
This conclusion is illustrated and confirmed by the following
cases: I1ailes v. Van T-ormer, 20 Wall. 353; iieckendawfer v.
Faber, 99 U. S. 347; Pickering v. AfcCullough, 104 U. S. 310.
It results from the views we have expressed that the decree
of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill was right. It is, therefore,
-Affirmed.

CHAPMAN v. BREWER, Assignee.
APPEAL

FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNhITED STATES FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
Submitted March 19, 1885.-Decided March 30. 1885.

Where, under the Bankruptcy Act of March 2, 1867, a proceeding in involuntary bankruptcy was commenced in the District Court of the United States
for the Western District of Michigan, before an attachment on land of the
debtor, issued by a State Court of Michigan, was levied on the land. the assignment in bankruptcy, though made after the attachment, related back
and vested title to the laud in the assignee as of the commencement of the
proceeding ; and, where the attachment was levied within four months
before the commencement of the proceeding, it was dissolved by the
making of the assignment.
The proceeding in this case was held to have been commenced before the
attachment was levied.

CHAPMAN v. BREWER.
Statement of Facts.
The District Court which made the adjudication hiaving had jurisdiction of
the subject matter, and the bankrupt having voluntarily appeared, and the
adjudication having been correct in form, it is conclusive of the fact decreed, and cannot be attacked collaterally in a suit brought by the assignee
against a person claiming an adverse interest m property of the bankrupt.
The assignment in bankruptcy was made after a levy on the land under an
execution on a judgment obtained in a suit in a State Court of Michigan,
brought after the proceeding in bankruptcy was commenced- Held, that
the assignee, being in possession of the land, could maintain a suit in
equity, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District
of Michigan, to remove the cloud on his title, and that that court could,
under the exception in Rev.. Stat. % .720, restrain by injunction a sale
under the levy and a further levy.

On the 10th of October, 1873, John Whittlesey, a creditor
of Benjamin C. Hoyt and Enoch 0. Hoyt, copartners under
the name of B. C. Hoyt & Son, filed a petition in bankruptcy,
in the District Court of the United States for the Western
District of Michigan., praying that the said two persons, "partners as aforesaid," might be declared bankrupts. The petition
contained the prescribed allegations, and set forth, as the demand of the petitioner, a promissory note made by the partnership, in its firm name, to his order. It alleged as one act
of bankruptcy, that the firm had "fraudulently stopped payment" of its commercial paper 'within a period of fourtee,
days," omitting to add,: "and not resumed payment withir
said period." It alleged, as a second act of bankruptcy, tha
the firm had "suspended and not resumed payment" of-its
commercial paper "within a period of fourteen days."
Before anything was done on this petition except to file it,
and on the 12th of January, 1874, Daniel Chapman procured
to be issued by the Circuit Court of the County of Berrien, in
the State of iMichigan, an attachment against the lands and,
personal property of the said persons, as such copartners, for
the sum of $4,895.44, in a suit brought by him, in that court,
against them, to recover a money demand, which attachment
the sheriff, on that day, levied on certain real estate in that
county. Enoch C. Hoyt died on thie 25th of February, 1874.
On the 5th of IMarch, 1874, a petition, . indorsed "Amended
petition," was filed by Whittlesey, in the bankruptcy court, containing the same averments as the first petition, with the addi.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

tion of the words so omitted in the first petition.

In the body

of the petition there was no mention of its being an amended
petition, nor did it allude to the first petition, or to the death
of Enoch C. Hoyt, and its prayer was the same as that of the
first petition. It was verified March-3, 1874.
On the 14th of April, 1874, an order was made in the suit
,inthe State court, entering the default of Benjamin C. Hoyt,
Tor want of an appearance, on proof of personal service on him
of the attachment and of the filing of the declaration; and, on
the 16th of April, 1874, an order was made, on affidavit, suggesting the death of Enoch C. Hoyt, since the issuing of the
attachment, and ordering that the action proceed against the
surviving defendant, Benjainin C. Hoyt.
On the 2d of -May, 1874, an order was made by the bankruptcy court, stated in it to be made on the appearance and
consent of "solicitors for the alleged bankrupts," reciting that
it had been shown that Enoch C. Hoyt had "departed this life
since the commencement of the proceeding in said matter,"
and ordering that all proceedings should stand against Benjamin C. Hoyt, survivor of himself and Enoch 0. Hoyt, and
that they might be prosecuted against him, with like effect as
if Enoch C. Hoyt had not died, and that the individual property of Enoch C. Hoyt be surrendered by the marshal to his
proper representatives. On the same day, Benjamin C. Hoyt
filed a denial of bankruptcy; signed by his attorneys, as follows:
"And now the said Benjamin C. Hoyt appears and denies that
he has committed the act of bankruptcy'set forth in said petition, and avers that -he should not be declared bankrupt.-for
any, cause in said petition alleged, and he demands that the
same be inquired of by a jury."
On the 8th of May, 1874, in the suit in the State court, a
judgment was rendeied in favor of the plaintiff, against Benjamin C. Hoyt, for $4,930.15, and costs; and, on the ;same day,
an execution was issued thereon, under which, on that day, the
sheriff levied on the same real estate which he had levied on
under the attachment.
On the 1st of June, 1874, an adjudication was made by the
bankruptcy court, in these words:

CHAPMAN v. BREWER.

161

Statement of Facts.

"Adjudication of Bankruptcy on Oreditwo's Petitibn.
Western District of Michigan, s8:
In the District Court of the United. States for the Western,
District of Michigan. In Bankruptcy.
In the matter of Benjamin 0. Hoyt, against,whom a petition
in bankruptcy was filed on 'the 19th day of October, A.D.
1873. At Grand Rapids, in said district, on the first day of
June, A.D. 1874. Before Hon. Solomon L. Withey, District
Judge.
This matter came on to. be heard at Grand Rapids, in said
court, and the respondent having withdrawn his denial and
demand for a jury, and having, by- his attorneys, Hughes,
O'Brien & Smiley, consented thereto.
And thereupon, and upon consideration of the proofs in said
matter, it was found that the facts set forth, in- said petition
were true, and it is therefore adjudged, that Benjamin C.Hoyt
became bankrupt, within the true intent and meaning of the
act entitled 'An act to. establish..a uniform system of bank-'
ruptcy through6ut the United States,' approved March 2, 1867,
before the filing of the said petition, and he is therefore declared and adjudged a .bankrupt accordingly. And it is further ordered that the said bankrupt shall, within five days
after this order, make and '.deliver, or transmit, hy mail, postpaid, to the-marshal, ags-messenger, a schedule of his creditors,
and inventory of -his estate, in the form and verified in the
manner reqiired of the jpetitioning debtor by the said act.
Witness the honorable Solomon L. Withey, judge of the
said District *Court, and th6 seal thereof, at Grand Rapids; in
said district, on the 1st day of June, A.D. 1874-. "
[SA.

ISAAC 'H. PARRISEF,
Clerk of .District Courtfor said -District2

In: the certificate. made by the clerk of the District Court of
the United States for the Western District of Michigan, certifying the copies of the bankiuptey papers, he- c~rtifies, "that
the foregoing is a true copy of the' petition. for adjudicaVOL.

CXIV-11

OCTOBER TERMI, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

tion filed October 10, 1873, copy of amended petition, order
continuing proceedings, denial of bankruptcy by B. C. Hoyt,
and adjudication of bankruptcy, on file in the proceedings of
said court in said entitled matter." This is mentioned because,
in the adjudication, the petition is referred to as filed October
19, 1873.
On the 16th of December, 1873, an alias execution was issued
in the suit in the State court, which the sheriff, on that
day, levied on real estate in Berrien County other than that
before levied on by him.
On the 1st of October, 1874, the register in bankruptcy executed to Joseph W. Brewer an assignment in these words:
"In the District Court of the United States for the Western
District of Michigan. In Bankruptcy.
In the matter of Benjamin C. Hoyt, Bankrupt.
Western District of Michigan, ss:
Know all men by these presents, that Joseph W. Brewer, of
the village-of St. Joseph, in the county of Berrien, and State
of Michigan, in said district, has been duly appointed assignee
in said matter: Now, therefore, I, J. Davidson Burn , register
in bankruptcy in said district, by virtue of the authority vested
in me by the 14th section of an act of Cpngress, entitled 'An
Act to establish a uniform system of bankruptcy throughout
the United States,' approved March 2, A.D. 1867, do hereby
convey and assign to the said Joseph W. Brewer, assignee as
aforesaid, all the estate, real and personal, of the said Benjamin C. Hoyt, bankrupt aforesaid, including all the property of whatever kind, of which he was possessed, or in which
he was interested or entitled to have, on the tenth day of October, A.D. 1873, with all his deeds, books, and papers relating
thereto, excepting such property as is exempted from the
operation of this assignment by the provisions of said fourteenth section of said act; to have and to hold all the .forego.
ing premises to the said Joseph W. Brewer, and his heirs, for
ever, in trust, nevertheless, for the use and purposes, with thE
powers, and subject to the conditions and limitations, set forth
in said act.

CHAPMAN v. BREWER.
Statement of Facts.

In witness whereof, I, the said register, have hereunto set my
hand and caused the seal of said court to be affixed, this first
day of October, A.D. 1874.
J. Dxvmsow BuRws,
[sEAL.]
Register in Bankrutcy."
On the -27th of January, 1876, .Brewer filed a bill in equity,
in the Circuit Court of the United States for'the Western' District of Michigan, against Chapman (the judgment creditor),
and the sheriff who had levied under the first execution, and
the deputy sheriff who had levied under the second execution,
setting forth the filing of the first petition in bankruptcy,
and its contents; averring "that the usual order to show cause
was thereupon made by said District Court, and a certified copy
thereof duly served on said Benjamin C. and Enoch'C. Hoyt,
who subsequently, .and in due time, appeared in said bankruptcy matter;" and alleging the death of Enoch: C. Hoyt, the
making of the order of March 2, 1871, the adjudication of
bankruptcy, the appointment of, and assignment to, the assignee, the facts in regard to Chapman's judgment; executions
and levies, and threats by the officers to sell the real estate
levied on. The bill made no mention of the amended petition
in bankruptcy or of the attachment. It stated that the executions were outstanding; that the real estate so levied on was the
separate property of Benjamin. C. Hoyt at the date of filing
the petition; that the plaintiff, as assignee, was the owner, and
in possession, of all of it, except certain specified lots; and that
said levies constituted a cloud on his title, and-emb'arrassed and
hindered him in disposing of the property, and that-notices of
the levies had been recorded in the office of the register of deeds.
of the county. The prar'er.of the bill was, that the levies be de;
creed void as against the plaintiff, as assignee, and the defendants be decreed to release to the plaintiff, as'assignee, all their.
right and title and interest, acquired under the levies, in and to
the real estate he was so in possession of, and, on their failure to
do so, the decree be ordered to have the effect of said release, and
he have leave to record the same in the office of said register of
deeds, and the defendants be enjoined from selling or interfer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Appellant.

ing with the real estate the plaintiff was so in possession of. The
bill also prayed for such other and further relief as should be
equitable and. just.
The answer denied the validity of the petition set forth in
the bill, and denied that Benjamin C. Hoyt was adjudicated a
bankrupt on the footing of that petition, or on any petition of
which he had notice, and denied the validity of the adjudication. It set up the attachment levy, and admitted the existence
of most of the material facts alleged in the bill, and that the
property was the separate property of Benjamin C. Hoyt, but
denied that the plaintiff was ehtitled to any equitable relief. A
replication was filed and proofs were taken, establishing the
facts above set forth, and that Brewer had acted as assignee
since October 3, 1874, and had had the management and
custody and possession of the property and paid taxes on it,
since October 10th, 1874, and that it was worth about $10,000.
The Circuit Court made a decree, on April 15, 1880, adjudging, that Benjamin C. Hoyt, "at the date of the filing of the
petition in bankruptcy against him, namely, on the 10thi day
of October, 1873, was the owner in fee of the" lands described
in the bill as those of which the plaintiff was ih possession;
that the plaintiff succeeded to the interest which said Hoyt had
in those lands on the 10th of October, 1873, and was and is the
owner in fee, and in the actual possession, of them; that each
of said execution levies was and is a cloud on the title of the
plaintiff, as assignee, to said lands, and was and is void as
against him; that the defendants execute to the plaintiff a
release of their interest in said lands under said levies, and, on
their failure to do so, the decree should have all the forceand
effect of sugh release, and might be recorded in the office of the
register of deeds of said county; and that an injunction issue
restraining the defendants from selling, disposing of, or interfering with, said lands, under said levies and from making any new
.or further levies on any of said lands, under said judgment. An
injunction to that effect was issued and served January 3, 1881.
Chapman appealed to this court.
Xr. 1. F. Severens for appellant.- I. The allegations of the

CHAPMAN v. BRE WER.

165

Argument for Appellant.

bill do not show very distinctly whether the complainant
claims anything upon the supposed ground of invalidity of the
proceedings in the State court. Some parts of it§ frame would
indicate .that he did. In any event, it is well settled that an
action to remove a cloud cannot be sustained when it is appar,
ent that the facts set up in the pleading, if true, would not
legally affect the title of the complainant. Nor will a bill
be sustained when the matters relied upon as the basis for removing the cloud are of record and not in pais.- .arnham v.
Campbell,34: N. Y. 480; .Marsk v. City of Brooklyn '59 N. Y.
280; Ward v. Dewey, 16 N. Y. 519, per Selden J.- -I. Touching the question whether the United States Circuip Court had
rightful authority to interfere with the proceedings of the State
court, we submit that th -general doctrine is well settled that
the Federal courts have no authority, in cases n6t within their
appellate jurisdiction, to issue injunctions to judg'mnts in State
courts, or in any manner to intefere with thei jurisdiction or
proceedings. Story, Constitution, §§ .375, 376. This doctrine
has been steadily maintained. See D'ggs v. TWolott, 4 Cranch..
179 ; Hagan v. Lucas, 10 Pet. 400 ; Peck v. Jenness, 7 How.
612; Tilliam? v. Benedict, 8 Hlow. 10Y; Peale v. Phipps, 14
How. 368; Pulliatv.Osborne, 17 Hokv. 471-; 'Iylor v. Caryll, 20 How; 583; FreQnan v. Howe, 24 ]How;. 450; Buck v.
Colbath, 3 Wall. 334. There is nothhig in"the bankruptcy
laws which changes this general doctrine, aAd Iconfers upon
Federal courts power to arrest the pr'ceeding of State urts.
The Circuit Court erred in enjoining the sheriff-Tfrom enforcing
the execution issued by the State court. Pe k v. Jenness, 7
'How. 612.; .Marshallv. KYnox, 16 Wall. 55I; .Doe v. Childress,
21 Wall. 6,2; Eyster v. Gaf,91 U. S.521; Burbank v. BigeZoui, 92 U. S.179; Nforton v. Switzer, 93 U. S. 355; derone v.
XcCarter, 94: U. S.734:; -Dav q ir. Friedlander,104: U. S. 570;
Thatcher v. Rockwell, 105 U. S. 467.-111. If the assignee de'
sired to contest these matters he should have made himself a
party to the proceedings in the State court. The provision of
the statute authorizing him to prosecute and defend all suits
pending at the time of :the adjudication of bankruptcy seems to
be decisive on this point. See also Peck v. Jennees, Doe v. Ch4 -

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

dress and Eyster v. Gaf already cited above, and Hill v. 11ard';ng, 107 U. S. 631.-IV. The bill is not framed to present or
contest the substantial question as to the defendant's lien. It
ignores altogether the attachment, and is not therefore adapted
to make a contest on its validity under the bankrupt law. The
allegations and the proof are not harmonious. It is also submitted that in substance and legal effect the adjudication in
bankruptcy must be construed to have reference to the last
petition and not to the former, under which nothing was done.
The caption of the order was no part of it. Jckson v. A.shton,
8 Pet. 148. This would make a variance from the bill and
w uld make the initiation of the bankruptcy proceedings subsequent to the attachment of the plaintiff, and present a question not competent to be litigated, on such pleading as the
complainant's bill. .loran v. Palmer, 13 Mich. 367; Piattv.
Vattier, 9 Pet. 405; Boone v. Chiles, 10 Pet. 177; Story,
Equity Pl., § 23. Counsel for appellee relies upon KrippenS"orf v. Hyde, 110 U. S. 276, and Covell v. Heyman, 111 U. S.
176. It is submitted that Covell v. hleyman strongly supports
our second position. It affirms that property levied on by
attachment or taken in execution is brought within the scope
of the jurisdiction of the court whose process it is. The State
court having lawful custody of the property was the proper
forum for determining adverse claims to it. _Erippendo: v.
hlyde confirms our third position, and supplements the doctrine
of Covell v. Heyman, by designating the appropriate line of
procedure for one asserting rights, claimed to be paramount to
those of the court having custody of the property.
3fr. John 1V tone

for appellee.

AIR. JuSTicE BL-&TcHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

After stating the fact* in the foregoing language, he continued:
The principal question considered by the Circuit Court, as
appears from its opinion, accompanying the record, was,
whether, the judgment and levies in the suit in the State court
being prior to the appointment of the assignee in bankruptcy,
although that suit was not begun till after the first petition in

CHAPMAN v. BREWER.
Opinion of the Court.

bankruptcy was filed, the Circuit Court had authority to enjoin
a sale of the lands on the executions.
The appellant takes the points, that nothing appears to have
been done under the first petition in bankruptcy ; that no order
appears to have been made, or notice given, thereon; that the
second petition was a new petition, and does not profess to be,
and was not, an amended petition, and was not filed under any
order authorizing it as an amendment; and that the adjudication recites the date of filing of the petition as October 19th,
instead of October 10th. The questions presented here by the
appellant are, (1) Whether the alleged cloud on the plaintiff's
title was a proper ground for equitable jurisdiction , (2)
Whether the Circuit Court had authority to interfere with the
proceedings of the State court; (3) Wheth r the assignee should
not have made himself a party to the proceedings in the State
court, or have intervened therein; (4) Whether the bill and the
proof correspond, and whether the bill is adapted to contest
the validity of such lien asarose by virtue of the attachment.
All the bankruptcy proceedings, except the appointment of
the assignee, and the assignment to him, and all the proceedings in the suit in the State court, except the issuing and levy
of the second execution, took place before the enactment of the
Revised Statutes, on the 22d of June, 1874... The Revised
Statutes purport to re-enact the statutes-in force on December
1, 1873. At the latter date none of th6 proceedings in bankruptcy had taken place save the filing of the first petition, and
the State court proceedings had not been begun.
The bankruptcy act in force on December 1, 1873, was the
act of. March 2, 1867, ch. 176, 14 Stat. 517, the 14th section of
which provided that the assignment to an assignee in bankruptcy "%hall relate back to the commencement of said proceedings in bankruptcy, and thereupon, by operation of law,
the title to all such property and estate, both real and personal,
shall vest in said assignee, although the same is then attached
on maesne process as the property of the debtor, and shall dissolve auy such attachment made within four months next preceding the commencement of said proceedings." The provision
of Rev. Stat. § 50-4 is, that the assignment "shall relate back

168

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

to the commencement of the proceedings in bankruptcy, and by
operation of law shall vest the title to all such property and
estate, both real and personal, in the assignee, although the
same is then attached on mesne -process as the property of the
debtor, and shall dissolve any such attachment made within four
months next preceding the commencement of the bankruptcy
proceedings." Under these provisions, if the bankruptcy proceedings were commenced October 10, 1873, they were begun
-before the State court attachment was made, and the assignment, when' made, related back to October 10, 1873, and vested
title in the. assignee as of that date, and overreached and defeated all laim under the attachment. Bank v. Sherman, 101
U. S. 403; Conner v. Long, 101 U. S. 228. If the bankruptcy
proceedings were not begun till March 5, 1874, the attachment,
having been made within four months next preceding that date,
was dissolved by the making of the assignment, and the title
of the assignee vested-as of March 5, 1874, which was before
any execution levy. In this vidw it would not be necessary to
notice any of the objections made as to the first petition, or as
to the second petition regarded as an amended petition, were it
not that the bill is founded on the first petition.
The date of October 19th in the adjudication must be regarded
as a clerical or typographical error. The proper date is stated
in the bill and admitted in the answer, and is stated in the
clerk's certificate and in the bankruptcy assignment, and in a
stipulation signed by the solicitors. Enoch C. Hoyt died February 25, 1874, before the second petition was filed, and the
order made by the bankruptcy court, May 2, 1874, states that
he had died "since the commencement of the proceeding in
said matter;" and it was that fact, in connection, probably,
with the fact that no order to show cause had been served on
Enoch C. Hoyt, which made it necessary for that order to
direct the marshal to surrender to the representatives of Enoch
C. Hoyt all his individual property.
It is also objected by the defendant, that the petition was
filed against the firm, and that the record does not show that
the petitioner filed any proof of--his claim, or any proof of
bankruptcy.

CHAPMAN v. BREWER.
Opinioni of the Court.

By § 36 of the act of 1867, Rev. Stat. § 5121, where
two persons, partners in trade, should be adjudged bankrupt,
not 'only was the property of the firm to be taken and administered, but also the separate estate of each partner.. When
Enoch 0. Hoyt died, the partnership estate vested in the survivor, and the proceedings were, by consent of attorneys then
appearing for the survivor, ordered to stand against him as survivor and to proceed against him as survivor. He appeared
by attorney and consented ioan adjjudication. By § 41 of the
act of 1867, Rev. Stat. § 5026, the appearance and consent of
the debtor were made a waiver of other notice. The adjudication states that, on consideration of the proofs, it was found
that the facts set forth in the petition were true. It was not
necessary to show in this case what the proofs- were. If the
District Court had jurisdiction of the subject matter, and the
bankrupt voluntarily appeared, and the adjudication was correct in form, it is conclusive of the fact decreed, and can be impeached only by a direct proceeding in a competent court, and
can no more be-attacked collaterally in a suit like the present
than any other judgment. fichases v. Post, 21 Wall. 398.
The adjudication and the assignment embraced the individual
property of Benjamin C. Hoyt; and it is alleged, in the bill,
and admitted in the answer, that the property levied on by the
defendants was his iAdividual property.
These views cover &l the objections made tb the bankruptcy
proceedings, and it must be held that the adjudication was
regular and yalid, and. refers to, and was made on, the first
petition, as amended by the second, and ott a proceeding conmenced when the first petition was filed.
-It is objected that the bill makes no mention of the attachment. But the ahswer" sets- up the. attachment and the levy
thereunder. The question, as to whether a priority of right
was acquired thereby was raised by. the pleadings, and the
decree makes no reference to the attachment; but. annuls the
execution levies.
By § 2 of. the act of 1867, the- ircuit Court of the district
has jurisdiction of all suits in equity brought by an assignee in
bankruptcy against any person claiming an adverse interest

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

touching any property of the bankrupt transferable to or
vested in the -assignee. This provision is re-enacted in Rev.
Stat. § 4979. By Rev. Stat. § 720 it is provided, that "the writ
of injunction shall not be granted by any court of the United
States, to stay proceedingos in any court of a State, except in
cases where such injunction may be authorized by any law
relating to proceedings in bankruptcy." It is contended for
the appellant (1) that a suit in equity will not lie for the relief
granted; (2) that, at all events, there was no power to award
the injunction.
That the defendant claimed an adverse interest touching the
property i' clear. The question is, whether the plaintiff can
have relief in equity. He was in possession of the land, and
as he says, of the only building there was on it.. By statutory
irovisions in M ichigan, commencing with § 29 of the art.of
April 23, 1833 (Code of 1833, p. 358,) followed by § -1 of:the
act of -March 28, 1840, (No. 76, p. 127,) and the :Revised
Statutes of 1846, (title 21, chap. 90, sec. 36, p. 360.) and now in
force as § 6626 of Howell's Statutes, "any person having the
actual possession, and legal or equitable title to, lands, may institute a suit in chancery against any other person setting up
a claim thereto in opposition to the title claimed by the complainant, and, if the complainant shall establish his title to such
lands, the defendant shall be decreed to release to the complainant all claim thereto." If there should be a sale oi the
executions, there would be a sheriff's deed; and, by another
statute of the State such deed is made plima facie evidence of
the regularity of the sale. Act of February 19, 1867, No. 20,
§ 2, now in force as § 5678 of Howell's Statutes. It is held by
the Supreme Court of Michigan, that the statute first cited
covers a claim to a lien on land, and that a lien which may result in a sale and a deed constitutes sucl a cloud- that equity
will afford relief. Scofteld v. City of lansing, 17 Mich. 437,
447, 448. Especially will this be done, if tlie lien is hot void
on its face, as the lien here is not, but is a cloud on the plain
tiff's title. Therefore, the plaintiff could obtain, under the
Michigan statute, and in a court of MiQhigan, the relief he has
had. In such a case a Circuit Court of the United States, hay-

CHAPMAN v. .BREWER.
Opinibn of the Court.

ing otherwise jurisdiction in the case, will, as a general rule,
administer the same relief in equity which the State courts
can grant. Clark v. Smith, 13 Pet. 195, 203;.Broderick's Will,
21 Wall. 503, 519, 520; Van .AYorden v. .Aorton, 99 U. S. 378,
380; Cummings v. -ational Bank, 101 U. S.153, 157; lolland v. Challen, 110 U. S. 15; Reynolds v. Crawfordsville
Bank, 112 U. S. 405. It has general power given to it, irre-spective of citizenship, to grant, equitable relief, in a suit in
equity by an assignee in bankruptcy against any person who
claims an adverse interest touching the assigned property.
We are not disposed, however, to rest the case upon jurisdiction arising from the Michigan statute. We hold that, under
the equity jurisdiction conferred by the:bankruptcy act, the
Circuit Court had authority to remove this cloud on the plaintiff's title. It was the duty of the assignee to remove it, and
to obtain a title which would enable him to sell the land for
the benefit of the estate. The claim of the defendants, under
the levies, is one which ought not to be enforced. It has no
validity as against the rights of the plaintiff; it throws a cloud
on his title; he is in possession, and cannot sue at law,; and
the papers supporting the defendant's claim are not void on
their face. Story Eq. Jur. §§ 700, 705; 3 Pomeroy Eq. Jur. §§
1398, 1399, and cases cited; Pettit v. Shepherd, 5 Paige, 493;
Carroll v. Saford, 3 How..441, 463; Ward v. Dewey, 16 N.
Y. 519; .kfustain v. Jones, 30 Geo. 951; .Martin v. Graves,
5 Allen, 601: Stout v. Cook, 37 Ill. 283; Olouston-v. Sh7earer,
99 Mass. 20 ; Sullivan v. Finnegan,101 Mass, 447; Anderson
v. Talbot, 1 Heiskell, 407; -Marsh v. City of Brooklyn, 59 N.
Y. 280; O'Hare v. Downing, 130 Mass. 16, 19. In Pettit v.
SheTherd, it was held that a Court of Chancery might interpose to prevent the giving of a conveyance, under pretence of
right, which would operate as a cloud upon the title to real
estate. In O'.are v. Downing it is said, .that "a Court of
Chancery will restrain by injunction a threatened levy of 6xecution upon .real estate which is not legally subject to such a
levy, and thus prevent a cloud upon the title, without compelling the owner of the land to wait until the levy has been completed, and then admit himself to be disseised, in order to main-

172 '

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

tain a writ of entry."' Much more will it prevent'a sale after
a levy.
But it is contended that the Circuit Court had no authority
to award or issue the injunction. The jurisdiction of' that
court in this case is conferred by the "law relating to proceedings in bankruptcy;" and we think the injunction was authorized by that law. The court of bankruptcy was authorized, by
§ 40 of the act of 1867, § 5024 Rev. Stat., where a petition in
involuntary bankruptcy was filed, to restrain all persons, by
injunction, from interfering with the debtor's property. The
jurisdiction of suits in equity, given to the Circuit Court by §
2 of the act of 1867, § 4979 Rev. Stat., was given to it concur.rentlv with the district courts. It must be held that Congress, in authorizing a suit in equity, in a case like the present,
has, in order to make the other relief granted completely
effective, authorized an injunction, as necessarily incidental and
consequent, to prevent further proceedings under the levies already made and new levies under the judgment. But for the
supposed inhibitory force of § 720, a court of equity, in granting, on the merits, the other relief here granted, would necessarily have power to award the injunction. We think the
Circuit -Court was authorized to award it here, within the
exception in § 720.
It is urged, that the plaintiff should have made himself a
party to the proceedings in the State Court, and have con-tested the matter there, under the authority given to him by
§ 14 of the act of 1867, (§ 5047 of the Revised Statutes), to
defend suits pending against the bankrupt at the time of the
.adjudication. As th6 assignment in bankruptcy was not made
till October 1; 1874, and the judgment and the levy under the
first execution were in May, 1874, we do not think the assignee was called upon to- take any steps in the State court,
after the assignment,, to obtain relief. He was entitled to pursue the remedy he.did.
The cases of Zrippendorfv. Hlyde, 110 U. S. 276, and Coull
v. Heyman, 111 U. S.176, are relied on by the appellant to
show that the" decree in this case was erroneous., The view
urged is, that, by virtue of the levy by the sheriff, the State

CHAPMAN v. BREWER.
Opinion of the Court.

court acquired custody, control, and jurisdiction-of the property, which could'not be disturbed by the-Circuit Court. But
the doctrine of those cases has no application in favor of the
appellant, in a case like the present. In the first case it was
held, that, after property had been attached by a marshal of
the United States, on mesne process from a Circuit Court of the
United States, a third person, claiming its ownership, could,without reference to citizenship, come into the Circuit Court
for redress, by ancillary proceedings. In the second case, it
was held, in pursuance of the decision in..Freemanv. Howe, 24
How. 450, that possession of property by a marshal of the
United States, under a writ of executiofi from a Circuit Court
of the United States, could not be disturbed by virtue of a
writ of replevin from a State court, issu~d by a third person.
E converso, as was held in Taylor v. Carryl,20 How. 583, property seized by a sheriff, under process of attachment from a
State court, cannot be taken from the sheriff by initial admiralty process issuing from a District Court of the United States.
But those wore none of them cases where, under the bankruptcy act, an assignee in bankruptcy claimed a paramount
title, and resorted to regular judicial proceedings to first vacate
and declare void the adverse title, and sweep it away, and then
have such final process in regard to the subject-matter of the
title as should be necessary to make the decree effective. And, in
Covell v. Heyman, the court, speaking by Mr. Justice Matthews,
after explaining the point of the decision in Freeman v. Howe
says: "The same principle protects the possession of property,
while thus held by process issuing from State courts, against
any disturbance under process of the courts of the United
States; excepting, of course, those cases wherein the latter exercise jurisdiction for the purpose of enforcing the supremacy
of the Constitution and-laws of the United States." -This exception includes the present case. The bankruptcy proceeding
dissolved the State attachment, and the bankruptcy act conferred on the assignee a paramount title, which he was empowered, by that act, to enforce, by proper equitable remedies,
in the Circuit Court, against the adverse title set up by virtue
of the suit in the State court.
Decree affirmed.

