VIRGINIA COUPON CASES.
Generar Summary.

of the check so much of the debt due from the bank to the
drawer, as was sufficient to pay the check. This is clearly not
a federal question.
It follows that

WYe have no jurisictionof the case, awd it is dimissed.

VIRGINIA COUPON OASES.
There were eight of these cases. All related to thelegislation of the State of Virginia of March 30, 1871, authorizing
coupons of the funded debt of the State to be received in
payment of taxes, debts, dues, and demands due the State,
and to subsequent legislation, practically forbidding the receipt,
of the coupons in present payment of dues and taxes. .The
cases follow in the.order in which they: were announced by
the court., The legislation is set forth, or referred to in Antoni
v. Greenow, 107 U. S. 769, and in the opinion of the court in
the first of the present cases.
The cases were argued, or submitted, in the following order:
i GREENHow, was--submitted December 1, 1884.
PonmDFxTFR v. GaEF rrow; WHiTE v..GREENHow; CAFIN v.
.TAYI oR; OCATER v. \GREiF ow; and MooRE v. GBEENHOW,
PiE"SAMw

were argued together ]Iarch 20, 23, 24 and 253 1885. -ALLEN

v.

13TI ORE

&

mo.RAumoAD Co. was argued March 25, 26,.

1885; and IYE v. PARsoNs was argued March 26, 27,-1885.,The opinions and judgments of the court in all the cases except MooiE v. GREENH OW Were announced Alril 20, 1885. In
the latter case they:..7ere announced May 4,-1885.
The dissenting opinion will be found after the opinion of. the
court in "IYE 'z. IAsows. The Justices whoconcurred'im it
dissented from the judgments and opinions ,of the court in
PPohnfExTER v. GEmmow; WnRym v. GREEN.How ; CHAFvn v.
TAiou; and AL= v. BALTmoRE & Oio Ri o&6OD
Co. In
PrLEAsA-TS

v.

G.QNmow; CA.'

m v.

GaEow; and, 14&ra

v. PAsoNs, they concurred in the judgments of the court, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus in Pojndexter e. Greenhow.

rested their concurrence on the reasons given in their dissenting
opinion.
POINDEXTER v. GREENHOW, Treasurer.
IN ERROR

TO'THE HUSTINGS COURT OF THE CITY OF RICHMOND,
STATE OF VIRGINIA.

In an action of detinue for personal property, distrained by the defendant
for delinquent taxes, in payment of which the plaintiff had duly tendered
coupons cut from bonds issued by the State of Virginia under tWe Funding
Act of March 30; .1871: Held,
1. That by the terms of that act, and the issue of bonds and coupons in virtue
of the sanie, a contract was made between every coupon-holder and the
State that such coupons should "be receivable at and after maturity for all
'taxes, debts, dues, and demands due the State;" the right of the coupon-.
bolder, under which, was to have his coupons received for taxes when offered, and that any act of the State which forbids the receipt of these
coupons for taxes is a violation of the contract, and void as against couponholders.
2. The faculty of.being receivable in payment of taxes was of the essence of
the right. It constituted. a self-executing remedy in the hands of a taxpayer, and it became thereby the legal duty of every tax collector to re- ceive such coupons, in payment of taxes, upon an equal footing and with
equal effecIt, as though they were money; after a tender of such coupons
duly made for that purpose, the situation and rights of the tax-payer and
coupon-holder were precisely what they would have been if he had made a
like tender in money.
3. It is Well settled by many'decisions of this court that, for the purpose of
affecting proceedings t enforce the payment of taxes, a lawful tender of
payment is equivalent to actual payment, either being sufficient to deprive
the collecting officer of all authority for further action, and making every
subsequent step illegal and void.
4. The coupons in qu-stion are not "bills of credit," in the sense of the Con-'
stitution, which forbids the States to "emit bills of credit;" because although issued by the State of Virginia.on its credit, and made receivable
in payment of taxes, and negotiable, so as to pass from hand to hand hy
delivery merely, they were not intended to circulate as money between individuals, and between-governwent and individqals, for the ordinary pur-.
poses of society.
5. An action or suit brought by a tax-payer, who has duly tendered such coupons in payment of his taxes, against the person who, under color of dffice
as tax collector, and acting in the enforcement of a void law, passed by the
Legislature of the State, having refused such tender of oupons' proceeds
by seizure and sale of the propeity of the plaintiff, to enforce the collection

