OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

GLOUCESTER FERRY COMPANY v. PENNSYLVANIA.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued March 13, 1885.-Decided April 13, 1885.
Commerce among the States consists of intercourse and traffic between their
citizens, and includes the transportation of persons and property, and the
navigation of public waters for that purpose, as well as the purchase, sale
and exchange of commtodities.
The power to regulate commerce, inter-State and foreign, vested in Congress,
is the power to prescribe the rules by which it shall be governed, that is,
the conditions upon which it shall be conducted; to determine when it shall
be free and when subject to duties or other eKactions.
As to those subjects of commerce which are local or limited in their nature or
sphere of operation, the State may prescribe regulations until Congress as
sumes control of them.
As tosuch as are national in their character, and require uniformity of regulation, the power of Congress is exclusive; and until Congress acts, such
commerce is entitled to be free from State exactions and burdens.
The commerce with foreign nations and between the States, which consists in
the transportation of persons and property between them, is a subject of
national character, and requires uniformity of regulation.
The business of receiving and landing of passengers and freight is incident
to their transportation, and a tax upon such receiving and landing is a tax
upon transportation and upon commerce, inter-State or foreign, involved
'in such transportation.
The only interference by a State with the landing and receiving of passengers
or freight arriving by vessels from another State or from a forei-gn'country
which is permissible, is confined to measures to prevent confusion among tte
vessels, and collisions betweenthem, -to insure their safety and convenience,
and to facilitate the discharge or receipt of- their passengers and freight.
Inter-State commerce by corporations is entitled to the same protection against
State exactions which is given to such commerce when carried on by individuals.
The transportation of passengers and freight 'for hire by a steam ferry
across the Delaware River from New Jersey to Philadelphia by a corporation of New Jersey is inter-State commerce, which is not subject to exactions by the State of Pennsylvania.
Freedom of transportation between the States, or between the United States
and foreign countries, implies exemption from charges other than such as
are imposed by way of compensation for the use of the property employed,
or for facilities afforded for its use, or as ordinary taxes upon the value of
the property.

GLOUCESTER FERRY CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA. 197
Statement of Facts.
In March, 1865, the Gloucester Ferry Company, the plaintiff
in error here, was incorporated by the Legislature of ZNew
Jersey to establish a steamboat ferry from the town of
Gloucester, in that State, to the city of Philadelphia, in Pennsylvania, with a capital stock of $50,000, divided into.shares of
$50 each. During that year it established, and has ever since
maintained, a ferry between those places, across the river Delaware, leasing or owning steam ferry-boats for that purpose.
At each place it has a-slip or-dock on which passengers and
freight are received and landed; the one in Gloucester it owns,
the one id Philadelphia it leases. Its entire business consists in
ferrying passengers and freight across the river between those
places. It has never transacted any bther business. It does
not own, and has never owned, any property, real or personal,
in the city of Philadelphia other than the lease of the slip or dock
mentioned. All its other property consists of certain real estate
in the county of Camden, New Jersey, needed for its business,
and steamboats engaged in ferriage. These boats are registered at the port of Camden, New Jersey. It has never
owned any boats registered at a port of Pennsylvania, and its
boats are never allowed to remain in that State except so long
as may be necessary to discharge and receive passengers and
freight.
In July, 1880, the Auditor-General and the Treasurer of the
State of Pennsylvania stated an account against the company
of taxes on its capital stock, based upon its appraised value, for
the years 1865 to 1879, both inclusive, finding the amount of
$2,593.96 to be due the Commonwealth. From this finding
an appeal was taken to the Court of Common Pleas of Philadelphia, and was there heard upon a case stated, in which it
was stipulated that, if the court were of opinion that the company was liable for the tax, judgment against it in favor of the
Commonwealth phould be entered for the above amount; but.
if the court were of opinion that the company was not liable,
judgment should be entered in its favor.
A statute of Pennsylvania, passed June -7,
1879, "to provide
revenue by taxation," in its fourth section enacted as follows :
"That every company or association whatever, now or here-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

after incorporated by or under any law of this Common.
wealth, or now or hereafter incorporated by any other
State or Territory of the United States or foreign government, and doing business in this Commonwealth, or having
capital employed in this Commonwealth in the name of any
other company or corporation, association or associations, peron or persons, or in any other manner, except foreign insurance companies, banks and savings institutions, shall be subject
to and pay into the treasury of the Commonwealth annually a
tax to be computed as follows, namely: If the dividend or
dividends made or declared by such company or association as
aforesaid, during any year ending with the first Monday of
November, amount to six or more than six per centum upon
the par value of its capital stock, then the tax to be at the rate
of one-half mill upon the capital stock for each one per centum
of dividend so made or declared; if no dividend be made or
declared, or if the dividend or dividends made or declared do
not amount to six .per centum upon the par value of said capital stock, then the tax to be at the rate of three mills upon
each dollar of a valuation of the said capital stock," made in
accordance with the provision of another section of the act.
It was under, the authority of this act that the taxes in question were stated against the company by the Auditor-General
and the State Treasurer.
The Court of Common Pleas held that the taxes could not
be lawfully levied, for there was no other business carried on
by the company in Pennsylvania except the landing and receiving of passengers and freight, which is a part of the commerce of the country, and protected by the Constitution from
the imposition of burdens by State legislation. It, therefore,
gave judgment in favor of the company. The case being carried on a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State, the
judgment was reversed and judgment ordered in favor of the
Commonwealth for the amount mentioned. To review this
latter judgment, the case was brought here.
. _M. Johz. G. ohnson and
tiff in error.

-r.Horton P. Henry for plain-

GLOUCESTER FERRY CO:' v. PENNSYLyANU4.

199

Argument for Defendant in Error.

.M. Robert Snodgrass, Deputy Attorney-General of Pennsylvania, for defendant in error.-The propositions of the
plaintiff in error amount to this: that the State cannot tax a
foreign corporation in respect to its capital stock, if it is engaged in inter-State commerce. This cannot be true abstractly,
without overturning Xfinot v. Philadephld,Wilmington & Baltimore Railroad Co., 18 Wall. 206. The proposition is therefore not of universal application. The corporation with which
we have to deal in this case is a ferry-company, anddt is, therefore, pertinent to inquire what we understand by subh a company.. In the Terms of the Law, 338, a ferry is said to be*" a
liberty by prescription, or the king's grant, to have a boat for
a passage upon a great stream, for carrying of horses and men
for reasonable toll." In Charles River Bridge v. Warrev
Bridge, 11 Pet. 420, Justice Story said: "It is ' a franchise
which approaches so near to that of a bridge, that human ingenuity has not, as yet, been able to state any assignable difference between them, except that one includes the right of
pontage, and the other of passage or ferriage," p. 620. "A
public ferry," said he, "is a public highway of a special description, and its termini must be in places where the public have
rights, as towns, or villes, or highways leading to towns or villes,"
p. 622. These definitions will serve to indicate the nature of
a ferry franchise as understood and declared by the older
authorities.
There is no controversy as to the transportation; or that it
takes place overa navigable river. But it does not follow that
it is "commerce" within the meaning which the framers of
the Constitution attached to the term. The criterion of the
business called commerce in the constitutional sense is that it
shall be free from State or local control, and subject only to
national control. Osborne v.
ofrbile, 16 Wall. 479 ; Rai oad
Co. v. .Maryland, 21 Wall. 456, 470. That freedom cannot be
predicated of a ferry company. People are not at liberty to
establish a ferriage over a navigable river separating two States,
without regard.to State authority. In saying this we are not
to be understood as asserting that a ferry may not be, or in
this case, is not an instrument of commerce. It is as much so,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

and perhaps, in the' same sense as a bridge, but in any case it
is, at most, no more than a local aid or instrument, which Congress has never undertaken to regulate or control. The distinction which we are here seeking to draw was forcibly recognized by Mr. Justice Field, in County of 2 obile v. Iimball,
102 U. S. .691, at p. 702.
It is well settled that States have the power to establish and
regulate ferries and other local aids to commerce. Conway v.
Taylor, 1 Black, 603 ; People v. Babcock, 11 Wend. 586; State
v. Hudson Caunty, 3 Zabr. 206; Chief Justice Marshall in
Gibb'ons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, at page 203; Fanningv. Gregor/e, 16 How. 524; Wiggins Ferry Co. v. -EastSt. _Louis, 107
U. S. 365; Charles .liver Bridge v. Warren Bridge, above
cited; Trustees of Schools v. Tatman, 13 Ill. 27. Ferry-boats
are restricted to ply between given points, and by a prescribed
course. They pass and repass between their landing places
without clearances under the navigation statutes. Although
they are held to be common-carriers in some senses, they are
limited in their rates of toll, for, the transportation of persons
and property, by the terms of the grant under which they
exist. Whilst liable for loss or injury resulting from negligence,
the property in process of transportation is always, either directly or indirectly, in the custody of others. In all these respects, the business of ferriage differs from that of ordinary
commerce.
If we look at the nature of the tax, to determine whether
it was within the power of the State to impose it, we find that
the act taxes the capital stock not merely of, corporations of
domestic creation, but of all incorporated by any other State
and doing business within the Commonwealth. As one-half
of the bed of the river Delaware is subject to the jurisdiction
of Pennsylvania, it follows as a geographical fact that a company employed in a ferriage across thd entire stream is doing
business within the Commonwealth. within the contemplation
of the act; and not being engaged in inter-State commerce, it
is within the taxing power of the State. Bank of Augusta v.
Earle, 13 Pet. 519. It results from the language of the court
in St. Louis v. Ferry Co., 11 Wall. 423, that a ferry company is

GLOUCESTER FERRY CO. vi. PENNSYLVANIA.

201

Argument for Defendant in Error,

subjected to the same iules and liabilities as other corporations
as to extra State business. It is, moreover, to be observed that
the tax here sought to be imposed is not a tax upon the specific
property of the corporation in which its capital may be invested. It is not an attempt to tax the ferry boats of this
company, nor is it an effort to tax a corporation in proportion
to the number of ferry boats it owns. The tax is not imposed
either directly or indirectly upon them ; it is not measured in
amount by their numbers; it is the same whether the company
owns few or many of them, and is unaffected by the frequency
of their use. It therefore clashes with none of the following
decisions which form part of the judicial argument against its
validity: dannon v. New Orleans, 20 Wall. 577; 582; Trans_portation Co. v. TW5eeling, 99 U. S. 273, 283, 284; X3organ v.
Parhtam,16 Wall. 471, 475, 476, 478; Hays v. Paiw
ftail
Steamship Co., 17 How. 596; Hoyt v. Commissiomers of Taratiom, 23 N. Y. 224, 227. It isnot atax" on accounnt of every passenger brought from a foreign country into the State;" it is
not measured by the number of passengers or in any way affected by them, and therefore does not contravene the doctrine
of The Passenger Cases, 7 How. 283. It is not a tax upon a
bill of lading, and therefore not within Almy v. California.
24 How. 169; nor is it a tax upon "passengers carried out, of
the State." Crandell v. 3Yevada, 6 Wal. 35. It is rather a tax
upon the capital stock of the corporation, "not in separate
parcels, as representing distinct properties, but as a homogeneous unit, partaking of the nature of personality," and taxable
where its corporate functions are exercised or its business done.
-The franchise itself may constitute the material part of all its
property, since not only its wharves and slips, but also its boats,
might be leased, and, in that case, the tax would be measured
by the value of the franchise represented by the extent of its
exercise within the State, and not by its tangible property
situated there. The extent of its property subject to the taxing power is immaterial. Its franchise would be worthless
without the leasehold interest owned by it in the city of Philadellhia. The value of its franchise depends upon that leasehold,
and it will, therefore, not do to say that it has no property

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

within the jurisdiction of the taxing power. It does not seem
necessary to inquire further as to an ownership of property
within the jurisdiction of Pennsylvania.
We do not deny that there is a wide- distinction between
transportation by water and transportation by land, but when
it is sought, by tha distinction, to explain the regulation and
control of railroads by the States, we submit that the same
distinction prevails between the business of ferriage and that
of commerce, strictly defined, and that the same authority
which regulates and controls the operations of railroads engaged in iinter-State traffic, may also regulate and control
the business of corporations exercising ferry franchises within
her borders.
If the business of ferriage is commerce, as defined by Chief
Justice Marshall, we concede that any tax laid upon such business, which comes within the ruling of the Passenger cases, or
the State Freight Tax cases, or the many other cases involving
the same principle, is an interference with commerce, and, for
that reason, unconstitutional. But if the tax is not of the
nature indicated by those cases, or if a ferry business is rather
in aid of commerce than commerce itself, or is subject to the
same exactions in respect to taxation as foreign railroad and
other corporations engaged in inter-State traffic, then we submit that the tax is not an interference with commerce,. nor
repugnant to the Federal Constitution, and the judgment of
the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania should, consequently, be
affirmed.
MR. JuSTicE FI.LD delivered the opinion of the court.
He
stated the facts as above recited, and continued:
The Supreme Court of the State, in giving its decision in
this Qase, stated that the single question presented for consideration was whether the company did business within the
State of Pennsylvania during the r 2riod for which the taxes
were imposed; and it held that it did do business there because
it landed and received passengers and freight at its wharf in
Philadelphia, - observing that its whole income was derived
from the transportation of freight and passengers from its

GLOUCESTER FERRY CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.

203

Opinion of the Court.
wharf at Gloucester to its wharf at Philadelphia, and from its
wharf at Philadelphia; to its wharf at Gloucester; that at each
of these points its main business, namely, the receipt and landing of freight and passengers, was transacted; that for such
business it was dependent as much upon the one place as upon
the other; that, as it could hold the wharf at Gloucester,
which it owned in fee, nly by purchase by virtue of the
statutory will of the Legislature of New Jersey, so it could hold
by lease the one in Philadelphia only by the implied consent
of the Legislature of the Commonwealth; and that, therefore,
it "was dependent equally, not only for its business, but its
power to do that .business, upon both States, and might, there.
fore, be taxed by both." 98 Penn. St. 105, 116.
As to the first reason thus expressed, it maybe answered
that the business of landing and receiving passengers and
freight at the wharf in Philadelphia is a necessary incident to,
indeed is a part of, their transportation across the Delaware
River from New Jersey. Without it that transportation would
be impossible.' Transportation implies the taking up of persons or property at some point and putting them down at
another. A tax, therefore, upon such receiving and landing of
passengers and freight is a tax upon their transportation; that'
is, upon the commerce between the two States involved in such
transportation.
It matters not that the transportation is made in ferry-boats,
which pass* between the States every hour of the day. The
means of transportation of persons and freight between the
States does not change the character of the business as one of
commerce, nor does the time within which the distance between the States may be traversed. Commerce among the
States consists of intercourse and traffic between their citizens,
and includes the transportation of persons and property, and
the navigation of public waters for that purpose, as well as the
purchase, sale and exchange of commodities.' The power to
regulate that commerce, as well as commerce with foreign
nations, vested in Congress, is the power to prescribe the rules
by which it shall be governed, that is, the conditions upon
which it shall be conducted; to determine when it shall be free

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

and when subject to duties or-other exactions. The power also
embraces within its control all the instrumentalities by which
that commerce may be carried on, and the means by which it
may be aided and encouraged. The subjects, therefore, upon
which the power may be exerted are of infinite variety. While
with reference to some of them, which are local and limited in
their nature or sphere of operation, the States may prescribe
regulations until Congress intervenes and assumes control of
them; yet, when they are national in their character, and require uniformity of regulation affecting alike all the States, the
power of Congress is exclusive. Necessarily that power alone
can prescribe regulations which are to govern the whole
country. And it needs no argument to show that the cominerce with foreign nations and between the States, which consists in the transportation of persons and property between
them, is a subject of national character, and requires uniformity
of regulation. Congress alone, therefore, can deal with such
transportation; its non-action is a declaration that it shall remain free from burdens imposed by State legislation. Otherwise, there would be no protection against conflicting regulations of different States, each legislating in favor of its own
citizens and products, and against those of other States. It
was from apprehension of such conflicting and discriminating
State legislation, and to secure uniformity of regulation, that
the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations and
among the States was vested in Congress.
Nor does it make any difference whether such commerce is
carried on by individuals or by corporations. TWelton v. .issouri,
91 U. S. 275; Mobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691. As was said
in Paul v. Firginia,8 Wall. 168, at the time of the formation
of the Constitution, a large part of thecommerce of the world
was carried on by corporafions; and the East India Company,
the Hudson Bay Company, the IHamburgh Company, the Levant Company, and the Virginia Company were mentioned as
among the corporations which, from the extent of their operations, had become celebrated throughout the commercial world.
The grant of power is general in its terms, making no reference to the agencies by which commerce may be carried on.

GLOUCESTER FERRY CO. v. PENNSYLVANTA.

205

Opinion of the Court.
It includes commerce by whomsoever conducted, whether by
individuals or by corporations. At the present day, nearly all
enterprises of a commercial character, requiring for their successful management large expenditures of money, are conducted by corporations. The usual means of transportation
on the public waters, where expedition is desired, are vessels
propelled by steam; and the ownership of a line of such vessels generally requires an expenditure exceeding the resources
of single individuals. Except in. rare instances, it is only by
associated capital furnished by persons united in corporations,
that the requisite means are provided for such expenditures.
As to the second reason given for the decision below, that
the company coul4 not lease its wharf in Philadelphia except
by the implied consent of the Legislature of the Commonwealth, and thus is dependent upon the Commonwealth to do
its business, and therefore can be taxed there, it may be answered that no foreign or inter-State commerce can be carried
on with the citizens of a State without the use of a wharf, or
other place within its limits on which passengers and freight
'can be landed and received, and the existence of power in a
State to impose a; tax upon the capital of all corporations engaged in foreign or inter-State commerce for the use of such
places would be inconsistent with and entirely subversive of
the power vested in Congress over.such commerce. Nearly
all the lines of steamships and of .sailing vessels between the
United States and England, France, Germany.and other countries of Europe, and between the United States and South
America, are owned by corporations; and if by reason of landing or receiving passengers and freight at wharves, or. other
places in a State, they can be taxed by the State on their capital stock on the ground that they are thereby doing business
within her limits, the taxes which may be imposed may embarrass, impede, and even destroy such commerce with the -citizens
of the State. If such a tax can be levied at all, its arijount
will rest in the discretion of the State. It is idle to say that
the interests of the State would prevent oppressive taxation.
Those engaged in foreign and inter-State commerce are -not
bound to trust to its moderation in" that respect; they require

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

security. And they may rely on the power of Congress to
prevent any interference by the State until the act of commerce, the transportation of passengers and freight, is completed. The only interference of the State with the landing
and receiving of passengers and freight, which is permissible,
is confined to such measures as will prevent confusion among
the vessels, and collision between them, insure their safety and
convenience, and facilitate the discharge or receipt of their
passengers and freight. which fall under the general head of
port regulations, of which we shall presently speak.
It is true that the property of corporations engaged in foreign or intr-State commerce, as well as the property of corporations engaged in other business, is subject to State taxation,
provided always it be within the jurisdiction of the State. As
said by Chief Justice Marshall in X~cCullock v. Maryland, 4
Wheat. 316, 429, "all subjects over which the sovereign -power
of a State extends are objects of taxation; but those over
which it does not extend are,.uf'ou the soundest principles,
exempt from taxation; .This proposition may almost be pronounced self-evident."
In Hays v. Pacic .Xail Steamsh-p Co., 17 Flow. 596, the
defendant, a corporation of New York, owned steam vessels
employed in the transportation of passengers and freight between New York and San Francisco, and between New York
and different ports in Oregon, which were registered in New
York. The principal office of the company for transacting its
business was also in New York, though for its better management agencies were established in Panama and in San Francisco. It had a naval dock and ship yard at Benicia, in California, for furnishing and repairing its steamers. On their
arrival at the port of San Francisco they remained 'only long
enough to land their passengers, mail, and freight, which was
usually done in a day, and then pioceeded to Benicia, where
they remained for .repairs and refitting until the commencement of the next voyage, which was generally some ten or
twelve days. It was held that the vessels were not subject to
taxation in California, as they were only temporarily there
while engaged in lawful tfade and commerce; that their situs

GLOUCESTER FERRY CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.

207

Opinion of the Court.

was at their home port, vhere their owners were liable to be
taxed for the capital invested.' The court, in giving its decision, said that the ships are "engaged in the business and
commerce of the country, upon the highway of nations, touching at such ports and places. asthese great interests demand,
and wlJich hold out to the owners sufficient inducements by
:the profits realized or expected -to be realized. And so far as
respects the ports and harbors within the United States, they
are entered and cargoes discharged or laden on -board, independently of any control over them, except as it respects -such
municipal and -sanitary regulations of the local authorities as are not inconsistent with the Constitution 'aid laws of the
general government, to which belongs the regulation of commerce with foreign nations and between the States. :No t, it is
quite apparent that if the State of California possefssed. the_
authority to impose the tax in question, any other State in the
Union, into the ports of which tho vessels entered in the prosecution of their trade and business, might also impose a like
tax."
In f orgaln v. Parham,16 Wall. 4'71, it was held that a vessel registered in New York was not subject td taxation in
Alabama, though engaged in commerce as one of a regular
line of steamers between Mobile in that State and New Orleans
in Louisiana. In rendering the decision it was said: "It is theopinion of the court that the State of Alabama had n- jurisdiction over this vessel for the purpose of taxation3 for the reason
that it had not become incorporated into the personal. property
of that State, but was there temporarily only, and that it was
engaged in lawful commerce between the States, with its situs
at the home port of New York, where it belonged, and where
its owner was liable to be taxed for its value," referring to the
case of Hays v. PacAfe Mfail Steamship Co. as decisive of the
case, and adding: "The jurisdiction of this court over the
.present case, as in the case of Hays v. The JPacift Mail Steamship Co., arises from the facts, first, that the property had notbecome- blended with the business and commerce of Alabama,
but remained legally of and as in New York; and, secondly,
that the vessel was lawfully engaged in the inter.State trade..

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

over the public waters. It is in law as if the vessel bad never
before or after that day been within the port of Mobile, but,
touching there on a single occasion when engaged in the interState trade, had been subjected to a tax as personal property
of that city. Within the authorities it is an interference with
the commerce of the country not permitted to the States."
In St. Louis v. Te Fery Co., 11 Wall. 423, the company
was incorporated by Illinois to run a ferry from a place opposite St. Louis to that city across the Mississippi. It had its
,principal place of business in St. Louis, in which its chief officers resided, and there the business meetings of its directors
were held.. Its engineers and subordinate officers resided in
Illinois, where its real estate was situated. Its ferry boats,
when not in use, were laid up in Illinois and forbidden to remain at the wharf in St. Louis. It paid a ferry license to St.
Louis and a wharfage tax for the use of its wharf there. In
addition to these charges the city authorities assessed a tax on
the company for the value of the boats as property -witdn e
city, all property within it being taxable under a statute of the
State. The court held that the tax was illegally levied, as the
boats were not property within the city, and said: "Where
there is jurisdiction neither as to person nor property, the imposition of a tax would be ultrc vir'es and void. If the Legislature of a State should enact that the citizens or property of
another State or countiy should be taxed in the same manner
as the persons and property within its own limits and subject
to its authority, or in any other manner whatsoever, such a
law would b6 as much a nullity as if in conflict with the most
explicit constitutional inhibition. Jurisdiction is as necessary
to valid legislative as to valid judicial action."
" In Rail'oad Co. v. Pennsyjlvania, 15 Wall. 300, sometimes
called "Case of State tax on foreign-held bonds," which was
brought here on a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the
State, this court said that "the power .of taxation, however
vast in its clharacter and searching in its extent, is necessarily
limited to subjects within the jurisdiction of the State. These
subjects are persons, property, and business.'! This prbposition would seem, as stated by Chief Justice Marshall, to be

GLOUCESTER FERRY CO. v.'PENINSYLVANIA.

209

Opinion of the Court.
self-evident, and no force of expression could add to its mani-

fest truth.
In the recent case of Commnwealth of Pennsylvanzi*a v.
Standard Oil Co., 101 Penn. St. 119, the liabiity of foreign'
corporations doing business within that State is elalorately
considered by its Supreme Court. The corporation was doing
business there, and it-was contended on the part of the CommonWealth that the tax should be imposed upon all of the capital stock'of the company; -while on the other side'it was urged
that only so much of the stock was intended, by the statute, to
be taxed as was represented by property of the company invested and used in th6 State. In giving its decision-the court
said that it had been repeatedly decided and was settled law
that a tax upon the capital stock of a company is a tax upon
its property and assets (citing.to that effect a large number of
decisiofis); that it was undoubtedly competent for the'legislature to lay a franchise or license tax upon foreign corporations
for the privilege of doing business within the State, but that
the tax in that case- was in no sense a license, tax; that the"
State had never granted a license to the Standard Oil Company
to do business there, but merely taxed its property, that is, its
capital stock, to the extent that it brought such property
within its borders in the transaction of its business; that the
position of the Commonwealth, that a foreign corporation entering the State to do business brought its entire ..capital, was
ingenious but unsound; that it was a fundamental principle
that, in order to be taxed, the person must have a domicil in
the State, and the thing must have a situs therein.; that per.sons and property in transitu could not, be taxed; that tha
domicil of a corporation was in the State of its origin, and it.
could not emigrate to another sovereighty; that the domicil
of the Standard Oil Company was in Ohio, and when it sent;
its agents into the State to transact business it no more entered
the State in point of fact than any other foreign corporation,
firm, or individual who sent an agent there to open an office
or branch house, nor brought its capital. there constructively;
that it would be as reasonable to assume that a business, firm
in Ohio brought its entire capital there because it sent its agent
voL.

cxv-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

to establish a branch of its business, as to hold that the Standard Oil Company, by employing certain persons in the State
to transact a portion of its business, thereby brought all its
property or capital stock within the jurisdiction of the State;
that there was neither reason nor authority for such a proposition; that the company was taxable only to the extent that it
brought its property within the State; and that its capital
stock, as mentioned in the act of the legislature, must be construed to mean so much of the capital stock as was mneasured
by the property actually brought within the State by the company in the transaction of its business. The justice who delivered the opinion of the court added, speaking for himself, that
he conceded the power of the Commonwealth to exclude foreign corporations altogether from her borders or to impose a
license tax so heavy as to amount to the same thing; but he
denied, great and searching as her taxing power is, that she
could tax either persons or property not within her jurisdiction..
"A foreign corporation," he said, "has no domicil here, and can
have none; hence it cannot be said to draw to itself the constructive possession of its property located elsewhere. There are
a large number of foreign insurance companies doing business
here under license from the State. Some of them have a very
large capital. It is usually invested at the domicil of the
company. If the position of the Commonwealth is correct,
she can tax the entire property of the Royal Insurance Company, although the same is located almost wholly in England,
or the assets of the New York Mutual, located in New York."
Under this decision there is no property held by- the Gloucester Ferry Company which can be the subject of taxation in
Pennsylvania, except the lease of the wharf in that State.
Whether that wharf is taxed to the owner or to the lessee it
matters not, for nQ question here is involved in such taxation.
It is admitted that it could be toxed by the State according to
its appraised value. The ferry-boats of the company are registered at the port of Camden in New Jersey, and according to
fail Steinms/ip Co., and
i
the decisions in Hays v. Te Paa
in .Morganv. Parham,they can be iaxed only at their home
port. According to the decision in the Standard Oil Company

GLOUCESTER FERRY CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.

211

Opinion of the Court.
case, and by the general. law on the subject, the company has
no domicil in Pennsylvania, and its capital stock representing
its property is held outside of its limits. It is solely,therefore,
for the business of the company in landing and receiving passengers at the wharf in Philadelphia that the tax is laid, and
that business, as already said, is an essential part of the transportation between the States of New Jersey and Pennsylvani.a,
which is itself inter-State commerce. While it is conceded that
the property in a State belonging to a foreign corporation engaged in foreign or inter-State commerce may be taxed equally
with -like property of a domestic. corporation engaged in that
business, we are clear that a tax or other burden imposed on
the property of either corporation because it is used. to carry
on that commerce, or upon the transportation of persons.or
property, or for the navigation of the public waters over which
the transportation is .made, is invalid and void as an interfer*ence with, and an obstruction of, the power of Congress in the
regulation of such commerce. This proposition is supported.
by many adjudications. Thus, in Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat.
1, the earlieft and leading case upon the commercial -power of
Congress, it was held that the acts 6f New York giving to Livingston and Fulton the exclusive right, for a.certain number of
years, to navigate all the waters within its jurisdiction with
vessels propelled by steam, were unconstitutional and void.
Making the navigation of those waters subject to a license of
the grantees of the State, that is, to such a tax or other butden
as they might levy, was an obstruction to commerce between
the States and in conflict with the laws of Congress respecting
the coasting trade. Although the sole pint in judgment was
'whether the State could regulate commerce on het waters in
the face of such legislation by Congress, yet the argument of
the court was that such attempted control of the navigable
waters of the- State was an encroachment upon the power of
Congress, independently of that legislation.
In Stear~hkip Co. v. Port Wardens, 6 Wall. 31, it was heldt
that a statute of Louisiana, declaring that the master and
wardens of the port of New Orleans should be entitled to demand and receive, in addition to other fees, the sum of live

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

dollars for every vessel arriving at that port, whether called
on to perform -any service or not, was unconstitutional and
void, as imposing a burden upon commerce, both inter-State
and foreign. The exaction was, in effect, a tax for entering
the port, that is, for the navigation of its waters. The control
of -the navigable waters of the port, and of all public waters
constituting channels of communication between the States and
foreign countries, is embraced within the commercial power of
Congress, and equally beyond the interference of the States.
It was claimed that the tax was for compensation to the master and wardens for the performance of certain duties required
of them, and that the law for its collection stood, therefore, on
the same constitutional grounds as the laws authorizing the
coliection of pilotage; but the court answered that no acts of
Congress recognize such laws as that of Louisiana as proper
and beneficial regaulations, whilst State laws in respect to pilotage are thus recognized. The court also added, that the right
to recover pilotage and half-pilotage, prescribed, by State legislation, rested not only upon State laws, but upon contract, observing that pilotage was compensation for service performed
and half-pilotage was compensation for services which a pilot
had put himself in readiness to perform by labor, risk, and cost,
and had offered to perform; whilst in the case of Louisiana the
State law subjected the. vessel to the demand of the master and
wardens, whether called upon to perform any service or not.
The base, therefore, was simply one of a tax imposed upon the
vessel for the navigation of the public waters of the State, and,
as such, vas a regulation of commerce, and an illegal encroachment upon the power of Congress.
In Reading Railroad Co. v. Pennsylvania,sometimes called
the Case qf the State Freight Tax, 15 Wall. 232, it was held
that the act of the Legislature of Pennsylvania requiring railroad companies to pay to the State Treasurer, for the use of
the Commonwealth, a tax on each two thousand pounds of
freight carried, was unconstitutional and void, so far as it
affected commodities transported through the State, or from
points without the State to points within the State, or from
points within the State to points without it, as being a regula-

GLOUCESTER FERRY CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.

213

Opinion of the Court.

tion of inter-State commeNrce. The court said that the -imposition of the tax, whether large or small, was a restraint upon
the privilege or right to have the subjects of commerce- passed
freely from one State to-another without being obstructed by
the intervention of State lines. Its payment was a condition
upon which the prosecution of that branch of commerce was
made todlepend, and its imposition therefore was in conflict
with the power of Congress over the subject.
In Henderson v. the .2fayor of HSew York, 92 U. S. 259,.an
act of the State of New York requiring the owner or consignee
of a vessel arriving at the p6rt of New York to give a bond for
every passenger in a penalty of $300, with two sureties, each
a resident and freeholder, conditioned to indemnify the Commissioners of Emigration, and every county, city and town in
the State, against any expense for the relief or support of the
person named in the bond, for four years thereafter, but allowing in commutation of the bond a payment of one dollar and a
half for each passenger within twenty-four hours after his.
landing, and imposing a penalty of $500 for each passenger if
such payment were not made within .that time, the penalty to
be a lien upon the vessel, was held to be'unconstitutional and
void. In its decision the court said that the State imposed a,
tax on the ship-owner for the right to land his passengers, and
that it was in effect a tax on the passenger -himself, since its
payment was required as part of his fare. "The transportation
of a passenger from Liverilool to the city of New York," it
added, speaking by Mr. Justice Miller, "is one voyage. It is
not completed until the passenger is disembarked at ,the pier in
the latter city. A lair or rule emanating from any lawful
authority which prescribes terms or conditions on which alone
the vessel can discharge its passengers, is a regulation of commerce, and, in'case of vessels'and passengers coming from
foreign ports, is a regulation of commerce with foreign inations."
92 U. S.259, 271.
These cases would seem to be decisive of the character
of the
business which is the subject of taxation in-the present case
Receiving and landing passengers and freight is incident to
their transportation. Without both there could be no such

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

thug as their transportation across., the river Delaware. The
transportation, as, to passengers, is not completed until, as -said
in the Henderson case, they are disembarked at the pier of the
city to which they are carried; and, as to freight, until it is
landed upon such pier. And all restraints by exactions in the
form of taxes upon such transportation, or upon acts necessary
to its completion, are so many invasions of the exclusive power
of Congress to regulate thatportion of commerce betweea the
States.
The cases where a tax or toll.upon vessels is allowed to meet
the expenses incurred in improving the navigation of waters
traversed by them, as by the removal of rocks, the construction
of dams and locks to increase the depth of water and thus extend the line of navigation, or the construction of canals around
falls, rest upon a different principle. The tax in such cases is
considered merely as compensation for the additional facilities
thus provided in the navigation of the waters. Kellogg v.
Uuion Co., 12 Conn. 7; Tihmes Bank v. Lovell, 18 Conn. 500;
.rcReynolds v. Smallouse, 8 Bush, 447.
Upon similar grounds, what are termed harbor dues or port
charges, exacted by the State from vessels in its harbors, or from
their owners, for other than sanitary purposes, are sustained.
We say for other than sanitary purposes; for the. power to
prescribe regulations to protect the health of the community,
and prevent the spread of disease, is incident to all local municipal authority, however much such regulations may interfere
with the movements of commerce. But, independently of such
measures, the State may prescribe regulations for the government of vessels whilst in its harbors; it may provide for their
anchorage or mooring, so as to prevent confusion hnd collision;
it may designate the wharves at which they shall discharge and
receive their passengers and cargoes, and require their removal
from the wharves when not thus engaged, so as to make room
for other vessels. It may appoint officers to see that the regulations are carried out, and impose penalties for refusing to
obey the directions of such -officers; and it may impose a tax
upon vessels sufficient to meet the expenses attendant upon the
execution of the regulations. The authority for establishing

GLOUCESTER FERRY CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.

215.

Opinion of the Court.
regulations of this character is found in the right and duty of
the supreme power of the State to provide for the safety, convenient use and undisturbed enjoyment of property within its
limits; and charges incurred in enforcing the regulations may
properly.be considered as compensation for the facilities thus
furnished to the vessels. Tanderbilt v. Adams, 7 Cowen, 349,
351. Should such regulations interfere with the exercise of
the commercial power of Congress, they may at any time' be
superseded by its action. It was not intended, however, by the
grant to Congress to supersede or interfere with the power of
the States to establish police regulations for the better protection and enjoyment of property. Sometimes, indeed, as remarked by Mr. Cooley, the line of distinction between what constitutes an interference with commerce and what is a legitimate
police regulation is exceedingly dim and shadowy, and he adds:
"It is not doubted that Congress has the power to go beyond
the general regulations of commerce which it is accustomed
to establish, and to descend to the most minute directions if it
shall be deemed advisable, and that to whatever extent ground
shall be covered by those directions, the exercise of State
power is excluded. Congress may establish plolice regulations
as well as the States, confining their operations to the subjects
over which it is given control by the Constitution; but as the
general police power can better be exercised under the provisions of the local authority, and mischiefs are not likely to
spring therefrom so long as the power to, arrest collision resides in the National Congress, the regulations which are made
by Congress do not often exclude the establishment of others
by the State covering very many particulars." Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, 732.
The power of the States to regulate' matters of internal police
includes the establishment of ferries as-well as the construction
of roads and bridges. In Gibbons v. Ogden, Chief JTustice
Marshall said that laws respecting ferries, as well as inspection
laws, quarantine laws, health laws, and laws regulating the
internal commerce of the States, are component parts of an
immense mass of legislation, embracing everything within the
limits of a State not surrendered to the general government;

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

but in this language he plainly refers to ferries entirely within
the State, and not to ferries transporting passengers and freight
between the States and a foreign country; for the power vested
in Congress, he says, comprehends every species of commercial
intercourse between the United States and foreign countries.
No sort of trade, he adds, can be carried on between this country and another to which the power does not extend, and what
is true of foreign commerce is also true of commerce between
States over the waters separating them. Ferries between one
of the States and a foreign country cannot be deemed, therefore, beyond the control of Congress under the commercial
power. They are necessarily governed by its legislation on
the importation and exportation of merchandise and the immigration of foreigners, that is, are subject to its regulation in
that respect; and if they are not beyond the control of the
commercial power of Congress, neither are ferries over waters
separating States. Congress has passed various laws respecting
such international and intcr-State ferries, the validity of which
is not open to question. It has provided that vessels used exclusively as ferry-boats, carrying passengers, baggage and merchandise, shall not be required to enter and clear, nor shall
their masters be required to present manifests, or to pay entrance or clearance fees, or fees for receiving or certifying
manifests; "but they shall, upon arrival in the United States,
be required to- report such baggage and merchandise to the
proper officer of the customs according to law," Rev. Stat. ยง
2792; that the lights for ferry-boats shall be regulated by
such rules as the Board of Supervising Inspectors of Steam
Vessels shall prescribe, Rev. Stat. ยง 4233, Rule 7; that any
foreign railroad company or corporation, whose road 6nters the United States by means of a ferry or tug-b6at, may
own such boat, and that it shall be subject to no other or different restrictions or regulations in sucl! employment than if
owned by a citizen of the United States, Rev. Stat. ยง 4370;
that the hull and boilers of every ferry-boat propelled by steam
shall be inspected, and provisions of. law for the better security
of life, which may be applicable.to them, shall, by regulations
of the supervising inspectors, be required to be complied with

GLOUCESTER FERRY CO. v. PENNSYLVANIA.

217

Opinion of the Court.

before a certificate of inspection be granted; and that they
shall not be navigated without a licensed engineer and a licensed
pilot, Rev. Stat. ยง 4426.
It is true that, from the.earliest period in the history of the
government, the States have authorized and regulated ferries,
not only over waters entirely within their limits, but over
waters separating them; and it may be conceded that in many
respects the States can more advantageously manage such
inter-State ferries than the general government; and that the
privilege of keeping a ferry, with a right to take toll for passengers and freight, is a franchise grantable by the State, to be
exercised within such limits and under such regulations as may
be required for the safety, comfort and convenience of the
public. Still the fa~t liemains that such a ferry is a means, and
a necessary means; of commercial intercourse between the
States bordering on their dividing waters, and it must, therefore, be conducted without the imposition by tho States of
taxes or other burdens upon the commerce between them.
Freedom from such impositions does not, of course, imply exemption from reasonable charges, as compensation for the carriage of persons, in the way of tolls or fares, or from the ordinary taxation to which other property is subjected, any more
than like freedom of transportation on land implies such exemption. Reasonable charges for the use of property, either
on water or land, are not an interference withr the freedom of
transportation between the States secured under the commercial power of Congress. Packet Co. v. Ieoku, 95 U. S. 80;
Packet Co. v. &. louis, 100 U. S. 423 ; Vicksburg v. Tobin,
100 U. S. 430; Packet Co. v: Catlettsburg, 105 U. S. 559;
Tra=portation Co. v. Paarkersburg,107 U. S. 691. That freedom implies exemption from charges other than such as are imposed by way of compensation for the use of the property employed, or for facilities afforded for its use, or as ordinary taxes
upon the value of the property. How conflicting legislation
of the two States on the subject of ferries on waters dividing
them is to be met and treated is not a question before us for
consideration. Pennsylvania has never attempted to exercise
its power of establishing and regulating ferries across the Dela-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

ware River. Any one, so far as her laws are concerned, is free,
as we are informed, to establish such ferries as he may choose.
No license fee is exacted from ferry-keepers. She merely exercises the right to designate the places of landing, as she does
the places of landing for all vessels engaged in commerce. The
question, therefore, respecting the tax in the present case is not
complicated by any action of that State concerning ferries.
However great her power, no legislation on her part can impose a tax on that portion of inter-State commerce which is involved in the transportation of persons and freight, whatever
be the instrumentality by which it is carried on.
It follows that upon the case stated the tax imposed upon
the ferry company was illegal and void.
The jidgnent of the Supreme Court of the State of Pennsylvania must, therefore, be reversed and the cause rernandedfo"
further proceedings in conformity with this apinion.

LAMAR, Executor, v. MICOU, Adfministratrix.
APPEAL FROM1 THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Petition filed January 20, 1885.

A guardian, appointed in a State which is not the domicil of the ward, should
not, in accounting in the State of his appointment for his investment of
the ward's property, be held. unless in obedience to express statute, to a
narrower range of securities than is allowed by the law of the State of the
ward's domicil.
Infants having a domicil in one State, who after the death of both their parents take up their residence at the home of their paternal grandmother
and next of kin in another State, acquire her domicil.
The courts of the United States take judicial notice of the law of any State of
the Union, whether depending on statutes or on judicial opinions.
Lamdr v. M2ficou, 112 U. S. 452, confirmed.

