OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus,

patent, might be corrected in equity, much more. when there
was fraud and imposition.
If, by the case as made by the bill, Spence's claim bad
covered all the land patented to Minor, it would present the
question, whether the United States could brihg this suit for
Spence's benefit. The government, in that case, would certainly have nointerest in the land when recovered, as it must
go to Spence without any further compensation. And it may
become a grave question, in some future case of this character,
how far the officers of the government can be permitted, when
it has no interest in the property or in the subject of the litigation, to use its name to set aside its own patent, for which it
has received full compensation, for the benefit of a rival claimant. The question, however, does not arise here, for half the
land covered by the patent would revert to .the United States
if it was vacated, and, as between the United States and Minor
it was one transaction evidenced by one muniment of title, the
question does not arise; certainly not on demurrer to this bill.
The result of these considerations is, that the first and
second questions are answered in the affirmative; the third,
fourth, sixth and seventh in the negative; and the fifth is
immaterial.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the case reman.ded for further proceedings not ineonsistent with this
opinion.

WEAVER & Others v. FIELD & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Submitted January 0, 1885.-Decided April 13, 1885.
In a suit to foreclose a mortgage on land in Louisiana, given to secure the payment of negotiable promissory:notes to taeir holder, it was held, on the
facts, that the plaintiff was never the owner of the notes, as against the
mortgagor, or those holding the land under him by deeds in which they asumed the payment of tlhe notes and mortgage.

"WEAVER v. FIELD.5

'245

Opinion of the Court.

Bill in equity to foreclose a mortgage. The facts are stated
in the opinion of the court.
,
-1r.J. D. Roue and -Yr. William Grant for appellants.
Xr. 1R. H. 2

va-' for appellees.

JUSTICE 3BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity brought by Daniel Weaver, in April,
1881, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of.Louisiana, against Spencer Field, Senior, Spencer
Field, Junior, and Frederick T. Field. The bill prays that the
.defendants be decreed in solido' to pay to the plaitit.the
amount of three promissory notes, made by Spencer Field,
Senior, to his own order, and indorsed by him, dated lNovem-:
ber 1, 1873, one for $2,000, at one year, one for $1,500, at two
years, and one for $1,500, at three years, With interest at the rate of eightler " cent. per annum from maturity; and that
certain land covered by a mortgage, of even date with the
notes, given by. Field, Senior, to one Williams, to secure the
payment of the notes to their holder, be sold, and the teS'bpaid out of the proceeds. The other two Fields are made parties as having .successively become grantees of the land, -nd
-assumed, each in the deed to himself, which he executed, the
payment of the notes and the moRtgage. Weaver having died
in July, 1881, the suit was revived in the names of the appel.'
lants, as his heirs, in February, 1882.
The bill avers that Weaver is the holder and owner of the
notes. The answer of the three. defendants, filed in June,'
1882, avers that Weaver never-was the owner of the notes, and
never the holder of them for value or in good faith; that the
notes and mortgage were made by Field, Senior, for the sole
purpose of enabling him to raise money for his own. purposes
by the sale, or discount, or other use, of the notes; that the
imortgage was made in favor of Williams, or any future holder,
in order to facilitate the use of the notes; that Field, Senior
was not indebted to Williams; that Williams gave no consideration for the notes, and was merely the nomina mort::•

Mm.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

gagee, without interest; that the notes were never the property
of Williams, nor did he ever have them in his possession with
the knowledge or consent of Field, Senior; that, from the date
of the notes, they remained in the possession of Field, Senior, until he used them, and delivered them to one Folger, as
security for a loan; that, when such loan was paid, Folger returned the notes to Field, Senior, who retained them in his
possession until on or about June 8, 1874, when he deposited
them with Weaver, to be used, if practicable, to raise money
for the uses and purposes of Field, Senior; that, after the notes
had so been deposited, and while they were in the possession
and custody of Weaver, Weaver caused Williams to pledge the
notes to him, Weaver, as security for the note of Williams for
some $2,000; that Williams had no power to make such
pledge, and the same was a mere nullity, for the reason that
Williams did not have the notes in his possession,,and they did
not belong to him at the time the pledge was made; that the
notes, at that time, belonged to Field, Senior, and were in the
custody and possession of Weaver, to whom the -facts with
respect to the ownership and the possession of the notes were
necessarily known at the time the pledge was made; that
Field, Senior, did not, at any time after the notes were so returned to him by Folger, negotiate them, or issue or deliver
them to any person for value; that, by reason of the premises,
the notes and mortgage weie extinguished and became of no
effect; and that Weaver never had, nor have any persons deriving title from him, any right or cause of action against the
defendants, or any one of them, on the notes or the mortgage.
There was a replication, and proofs were taken, Field, Senior, and Williams being witnesses for the defendants. The
bill was dismissed by a decree which states that the court considered that, by the undisputed evidence of Field, Senior, and
Williams, and the circumstances of the case, it was shown that
the notes in suit, after being issued and delivered to Folger,
were taken up by, and came into the possession and ownership
of, the maker, and were thus, under the laws of Louisiana, extinguished by confusion; that Weaver had notice, of all this;
and that, by the extinguishment of the notes, the mortgage fell.

DOE v. HYDE.
Syllabus.

Without reference to the ground stated by the Circuit Court
as that on which it dismissed the bill, we are of opinion that

the dismissal was proper. The matters of fact averred in the
answer, as above set forth, are established by the evidence. It
is shown that Weaver never acquired any title to the notes as
owner, or as holder of them as security for any indebtedness
from Field, Senior, to him, and that he received them from
Field, Senior, as agent, to raise or advance money on, for, or to
Field, Senior, and failed to do so, and retained them tortiously,
and without the assent of Field, Senior. When Weaver first,
ih February, 1878, took legal proceedings to enforce the mortgage, Field, Senior, m the petition in the suit he brought
against Weaver,-in 3\{arch, 1878, more than three years before
Weaver died, to restrain Weaver's proceedings, denied that
Weaver held or owned the notes, and alleged, in substance,
'the same facts set up in the answer in the present suit. We
have carefully considered the argument on the factsmade on
the part of the appellants, but do not deem an extended opinion upon them necessary The property in the hands of the
grantees was bound only to the extent it was bound in the
hands of the mortgagor, and only to respond to a lawful holder
of the notes.

.Decaree atfflmed.

DOE v. HYDE, Assignee.
S

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF T-lY

UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted March 31, 1885.-Decided April 1, 1885.

D, a creditor of a bankrupt, holding two securities therefor, after being cited
m a proceeding commenced against him by the assignee m bankruptcy, by
petition, to obtaiu the delivery of the two securities, as being unlawfully
m his possession, delivered up one of them to the assignee, in July, 1871.
In November, 1872, the assignee sued D to recover the other security. and
in 1877 it was decided in that suit that D was entitled to hold it. There
being a deficiency on the debt, and the assignee having collected the security
delivered to him, D, in 1879. sued the assgne3 to have its proceeds applied

