DOBSON v. HARTFORD CARPET COMPANY.

439

Syllabus.
the decree or before. Here, before the cause came on for final
hearing notice was given the appellee, by order of the' court,
that the appeal taken in open court was being prosecuted, and
that a reargument at an appointed time was desired. In response to this notice, the appellee declined to apppar, not because he had not been served with a citation, but because no
appeal had been perfected. Had be complained of a want of

citation, the omission might have been supplied if, on consideration, it should have been deemed necessary. But the "ovrder
which was ser~ved on him to appear and argue the cause, if lie
saw fit, was of itself the legal equivalent of a citation for all the

purposes of this appeal.
Tle 9notion ae de6nied.

DOBSON & Another v. HARTFORD CARPET
COMPANY.
SAME v. BIGELOW CARPET COMPANY.
SAME v. SAME.
APPEALS FR03E THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

Argued April 2, 1885.-Decided April 20, 1885.
In a suit in equity, for the infringement of a patent for a design for carpets,
where no profits were found to have been made by the defendant., the Circuit Court allowed to the plaintiff, as damages, in respect to the yards of
infringing carpets made and sold by the defendant, the sum per yard which
was the profit of the plaintiff in making and selling carpets with the
patented design, there being no evidence as to the value imparted to the
carpet by the design : .Teld, that such award of damages was improper,
and that only nominal damages should have been allowed.
Where a bill founded on a design patent with a claim for a pattern and separate claims for each of its parts, is taken as confessed, it allegng infringement of the "invention," the patent will be held valid for the purposes of
the suit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.
The joinder of such claims in one patent does not per se invalidate the patent,
or any claim, at the objection of a defendant.
A claim of "the design for a carpet, substantially as shown," refers to the description and the drawing and is valid.
An objection that a patent for a design is for an aggregation of old ornaments,
and embodies no "invention," is concluded, where the bill alleges infringement of the "invention," and is taken as confessed.
Where the master reported no profits, and nominal damages, in a suit in equity
for the infringement of a patent for a design, and, on exception by the
plaintiff, the Circuit Court allowed a sum for damages, and this court reversed its decree, the plaintiff was allowed costs in the Circuit Court to and
including the interlocutory decree, and the defendant was allowed his costs
after such decree.

Theseewere all suits in equity for alleged infringements of
patents.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
31r. Hector IT. Fenton (31r. Richard P. White was with
him), for appellants.
1Lre. Aw:thur v. Briemen for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
These are three suits in equity, brought. in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania,
against John Dobson and James Dobson, trading as John and
James Dobson and as "The Falls of Schuylkill Carpet Mills."
No. 1 is brought by the Hartford Carpet Company, for the
infringement of design letters patent No. 11,074, granted March
18, 1879, to the plaintiff, as assignee of WinthropL. Jacobs, for
three and one half years, for a design for carpets. No. 2 is
brought by the Bigelow Carpet Company, for the infringement of design letters patent No. 10,778, granted August 13,
1878, to the plaintiff, as assignee of Hugh Christie, for three and
one half years, for a design for carpets. No. 3 is brought
by the Bigelow Carpet Company, for the infringement of design letters patent No. 10,870, granted October 15, 1878, to
the plaintiff, as assignee of Charles Magee, for three and one
half years, for a design for carpets.

DOBSON v. HARTFORD CARPET COMPANY.

441

Opinion of the Cour.
:No. 1 -Was commenced on the 26th of April, 1879, and Nos. 2
and 3 on the 7th of May, 1879. In No. 1 and No. 3 the
defendants appeared by a solicitor, but did not plead, answer
or demur to the bill, and it was taken as confessed, in each suit,
on the 11th of July, 1879; and, on the 2d of September, 1879,
an interlocutory decree was entered in each suit, awarding a
perpetual injunction and- an account of profits and damages.
In No.,2, an answer w~s filed on the 3d of September, 1879,
denying infringement and setting up want of novelty. A replication was filed, and, on the 5th of November,-1879, a preliminary injunction was granted. Testimony was taken, and,
on April 23, 1880, on final hearing, a decree was made fora
perpetual injunction and an account of profits and damages.
Some testimony on the accounting in Nos. 1 and 3 was taken
in November, 1879, but most of the evidence before the master
was taken in the three suits at the same time, in June, 1880.
In No. 1, the master fied a report on January 19, 1881, setting f6rth that the plaintiff, before the master3 waived all claim
for profits and limited its claim to the damages it had suffered
by the infringemenf; that the defendants had sold 20 pieces,
of 50 yards each, of carpet' containing the patented design;
that the plaintiff claimed $13,400 damages, being 67 cents a
yard, on 400 pieces of carpet, of 50 yards each, as being the
decrease of the plaintiff's sales caused by the infringement,
estimating the cost to the plaintiff of making and selling the
carpet at $1.08 per yard, and its selling price at $1.75 per
yard; and that the master had rejected that claim, as founded
on inadmissible evidence, and a further claim of $3,000 damages, for expenses caused to the plaintiff, by the infringement,
in getting up other designs, and changing its looms to other
carpets. The report was for six cents damages. The plaintiff
excepted to the report because it did not find profits to have
been made by the defendants, and did not report more than
nominal damages. The court sustained the exceptions, and
decreed to the plaintiff $737, being for 20 pieces of- infringing
carpet made and sold by the defendants, at 55 yards per piece,
or 1,100 yards, at 67 cents per yard, as the plaintiff's profit per
yard on carpet of the patented design. The final decree was

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

for $737 and costs, and a perpetual injunction. The defendants have appealed.
In No. 2, the master filed a report on January 18, 1881, setting forth that the plaintiff, before the master, waived all claim
for profits, and limited its claim to the damages it had suffered
by the infringement; that no testimony had been taken showing the amount of the defendants' sale of the infringing carpet; that the plaintiff claimed $11,250 damages, being 75 cents
a yard, on 300 pieces of carpet, of 50 yards each, as being the
decrease of the plaintiff's sales, caused by the infringement,
estimating the cost to the plaintiff of making and selling the
carpet at $1.10 per yard, and his selling price at $1.85 per
yard; and that the master had rejected that claim as not sustained by the evidence, and also a further claim for expense
caused to the plaintiff by .the infringement, in getting up another design, and in resetting its looms to manufacture the
same. The report was for six cents damages. The p]aintiff
excepted to the report for not finding more than nominal damages. The court sustained the exceptions, and decreed to the
plaintiff $750, being for 20 pieces of infringing carpet made by
the defendants, at 50 yards per piece, or 1,000 yards, at 75
cents per yard, as the plaintiff's profit per yard on carpet of
the patented design. The final decree was for $750 and costs,
and a perpetual injunction. The defendants have appealed.
In No. 3, the master filed a report on January 18, 1881, setting forth that the plaintiff, before the master, waived all claim
for profits, and limited its claim to the damages it had incurred
by the infringement; that the defendants had sold 31 pieces,
amounting to 1,6841 yards, of carpet containing the patented
design; that the plaintiff claimed $3,750 damages, being 75
cents a yard on 5,000 yards of carpet, as being the decrease of
the plaintiff's sales, caused by the infringement, estimating the
plaintiff's profit on making and selling the carpet at 75 cents
per yard; and that the master had rejected that claim as not
sustained by the evidence, and also a further claim for the cost
of getting up another design to replace the one infringed. The
report was for six cents damages. The plaintiff excepted to
the report, because it did not find profits to have been made by

DOBSO I

v. HARTFORD CARPET COMPANY.

443

Opinion of the Court.
the defendants, and'did not report more than nominal damages.
The court sustained the exceptions, and decreed to the plaintiff $1,312.50, being for 35 pieces of infringing carpet made and
sold by the defendants, at 50 yards per piece, or 1,750 yards, at
75 cents per yard, as the plaintiff's profit per yard, on carpet
of the patented design. The final decree was for $1,312.50
and costs, and a perpetual injunction. The defendants have
appealed.
The Circuit Court proceeded on the ground, as stated in its
decision, 10 Fed. Rep. 385, that it was to be presumed that the
defendants' carpets displaced in the market an equal quantity
of the plaintiff's carpets; and that the profits which the plaintiffs would have made on that quantity of carpets was the
measure of their damages. It rejected the claims for losses for
any greater decline in th6 plaintiff's sales, and on looms, as
"too remotely connected with the defendants' acts as their
supposed cause," and "too speculative in their character," to
be allowed.
Leaving oit of view all question as to the presumption that.
the plaintiffs would have made and sold, in addition to the
carpets of the patented designs which they did make and sell,
the infringing carpets which the defendants made and sold,
which are alleged to have been of poorer quality and cheaper
in price, it is plain that the price per yard allowed as damages
was the entire profit to the plaintiffs, per yard, in the manufacture and sale of carpets of the patented designs, and not
merely the value which the designs contributed to the carpets. There was no evidence as to that value.
It is provided by Rev. Stat. ยง 4921,1 that, in a suit in
equity for the infringement of a patent, the plaintiff may, on. a
decree in his favor, recover the damages he has sustainedi in
addition to the profits to be accounted for by the defendant,
such damages to be assessed by the court, or under its direction,
and with the same power to increase the damages, in the discretion of the court, as in the case of verdicts ; and the damages
intended are "the actual damages sustained," in the language,
of ยง 4919. Boot v. Railway Co., 105 U. S. 189, 212. By
ยง 4933 all these provisions apply to patents for designs.

OCTOBER TERMT, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

This court has, in a series of decisions, laid down rules as to
what are to be regarded as "profits to be accounted for by the
defendant," and what as "actual damages," in suits for the
infringement of patents; and no rule has been sanctioned
which will allow, in the case of a patent for a design for ornamental figures created in the weaving of a carpet, or imprinted
on it, the entire profit from the manufacture and sale of the
carpet, as profits or damages, including all the profits from the
carding, spinning, dyeing and weaving, thus regarding the entire profits as due to the figure or pattern, unless it is shown,
by reliable evidence, that the entire profit is due to the figure
or pattern. It is a matter of common knowledge, that there is an
infinite variety of patterns in carpets, and that, between two
carpets, of equal cost to make, and equal merit as to durability
of fabric and fastness of color, each with a pattern pleasing to
the taste, one having a design free to be used, and the other a
design protected by a patent, the latter may or may not command in the market a price larger than the former. If it does,
then the increased price may be fairly attributed to the design;
and there is a solid basis of evidence for profits or damages.
But, short of this, under the rules established by this court,
there is no such basis. The same principle is applicable as in
patents for inventions. The burden is upon the plaintiff, and,
if he fails to give the necessary evidence, but resorts, instead,
to inference and conjecture and speculation, he must fail for
want of proof. There is another suggestion, of great force.
The carpet with the infringing design may be made on an infringing loom, and various infringing processes or mechanisms
for carding, spinning or dyeing may be used.in making it, and, if
the entire profit in making and selling it is necessarily to be
attributed to the pattern, so it may as well, on principle, be
attributed to each of the other infringements, and a defendant
might be called on to respond many times over for the same
amount. There is but one safe rule-to require the actual
damages or profits to be established by trustworthy legal
proof.
It is not necessary to cite at length from the cases decided
by this court on the subject. It is sufficient to refer to .them,

DOBSON v. HARTFORD CARPET COMPANY.

445

Opinion of the Court.

as follows: Livingston-v. TFoodworth, 15 How. 546; Seymour
v. -.fo Cormick, 16 How. 480 ; .layor of New -Forkv. Ransom,
23 How. 487; fowry v. Thitney, 14 Wall. 620; Pilp v.
Nock,. 17 Wall. 460 ; .Littlefeldv. Perry,21 iHow. 205 ; Birdsall
v. Coolidge, 93 U. S. 64 ; Cawood Patent, 94 U. S. 695; Blake
v. Robertson, 94 U. S. 728; Garretsonv. Clark, 111 U. S. 127;
Black v. Thorne, 111 U. S. 122. The true rule, which applies
also to a patent for a design, was formulated thus, by this
court, in Garretson v. Clark: "The patentee must, in every
case, give evidence tending to separate or apportion the defendant's profits and the 'patentee's damages between the patented feature. and the unpatented features, and such evidence
must be reliable and tangible, and not conjectural or speculative; or he must show, by equally reliable and satisfactory
evidence, that the profits and damages are to be calculated on
the whole machine, for the reason that the entire value of the
whole machine, as a marketable article, is properly and legally
attributable to the patented feature." The case of .anfacturing Co. v. Cowing, 105 U. S. 253, was a case falling within the
last clause of the rule thus stated, and was an exceptional case,
as was stated by the Chief Justice, in the opinion. The general
rule was recognized in that case, and the exception was made,
in regard to the oil-well gas pump there involved, because
there was only a limited and local demand for it, which could
not be, and was not, supplied by any other pump.
The rule in question is even more applicable to a patent for
a design than to one for mechanism. A design or pattern in
ornamentation or shape appeals only to the taste through the
eye, and is often a matter of evanescent caprice. The article
which embodies it is not necessarily or generally any more serviceable or durable than an article for the same use having a
different design or pattern. Approval of the particular design
or pattern may very well be one motive for purchasing the
article containing it, but the article must have intrinsic merits
of quality and structure, to obtain a purchaser, aside from the.
pattern or design; and to attribute, in law, the entire profit to
the pattern, to the exclusion of the other merits, unless it is
shown, by evidence, as a fact, that the profit ought to be so at-

OCTOBER TERM, 1S84.
Opinion of the Court.

tributed, not only violates the statutory rules of "actual damages" and of "profits to be accounted for," but confounds all
distinctions between cause and effect.
The decrees must, therefore, all of them be reversed, as to
the damages awarded.
A to No. 1, though the bill was taken as confessed, the deefendants take the point that the patent is void on .its face be'cause it has nineteen claims. It has a claim for an entire
pattern, and then a separate claim for each of eighteen coinponent parts making up the whole. The bill alleges infringemebit by the making and selling of the "invention" and of
carpets containing the "invention."
Even if the defendants
can raise this point after a decreepro confesso, (see Thomson v.
loost
M
e, ante, 104,) the patent must be held valid at least for
the purposes of this case.
In No. 2, the question of proof of making and selling by
the defendants before suit brought is raised. But we think, on
the pleadings and all the proofs, including the defendants' letter of April 13, 1880, the case is made out. The point is also
taken, that this patent is void because it has a claim for the
entire pattern and three claims for each of three constituent
parts of it. Yo such point is taken in the answer, which
speaks of the patent as one for a single design. If the Patent
Office, in view of the question of fees, and for other reasons,
grants a patent for an entire design, with a claim for that, and
a claim for each one of various constituent members of it,
as a separate design, we see no objection to it, leaving the
novelty of the whole and of each part, and the validity of the
patent, open to contestation. The mere joinder of such claims
in one grant does not per se invalidate the patent or any particular claim, at the objection of a defendant.
In No. 3. objection is taken to the patent because it claims
"the design for a carpet, substantially as shown." As the bill
is the same in form as that in No. 1. and was taken pro coifesso,
the patent is valid at least for the purposes of this case. Aside
from this, we see no good objection to the form of the claim.
It refers to the description as well as the drawing, in using
the word "shown."
The objection is also made, as to No. 3,

WESTERN ELECTRIC CO. v. ANSONIA CO.

447

Statement of Facts.
that the patent isfor an aggregation of old ornaments, and
embodies no invention. This objection is concluded, for this
case, by the language of the bill and the decree pro confesso.
The final decrees in all of the suits are "reversed,and the
cases are remanded to the Circuit Court, with directions to
disallow the award of damages in each suit, and -to award
sie cents damages in each, and to allow to the defendants a
recovery in each case for their costs after interlocutory decree, and to the plaintiff in each case a recoveryfor its
costs to and including interlocutory decree.

WESTERN ELECTRIC MANUFACTTRING COMPANY V. ANSONIA BRASS & COPPER COX-

PANeY.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF CONLNECTICUT.
Argued April 2, 1885.-Decided April 20, 18M.

The invention claimed in reissued patent No. 6,954 granted February 29,
1876, to Joseph Olistead, assignor by mesne assignments to the appellants,
was substantially anticipated by the invention described in letters patent
in Great Britain granted to the Earl of fDundonald July 22, 1852 ; and
also by letters patent granted there to Felix M. Baudouin, April 3, i857.
A claim in a patent for a process does not cover a condition in the material
used in the process which is not referred to and described in the specificatiou and claim, within the requirements of Rev. Stat. ยง 4888.
Reissued patent No. 6,954 for a process in insulating telegraph wires being void,
it follows that reissued patent No. 6955 for the product of the process is
also void.

The case was a suit in equity, brought by the appellant, the
Western Electric Manufacturing Company, against the Ansonia
Brass and Copper Company to restrain the infringement of
two reissued letters patent, numbered 6,954' and 6,955 respectively, granted to the appellant as the assignee of Joseph Olinstead, both dated February 29, 1876, for improvements in

