OCTOBER TERMI, 1884
Statement of Facts.

delivered the opinion of the court.
Under ยง 1001 of the Revised Statutes no bond for the
prosecution of the suit, or to answer in damages or costs, is
required on writs of error or appeals issuing from or brought
to this court by direction of the Comptroller of the Currency
in suits by or against insolvent national banks, or the receivers
thereof. This is such a case.
There is abundant evidence in the record that the direction
from the comptroller to the receiver was to take out a writ of
error in this case, although, by mistake in one of the papers,
Henry ]Mixter was named as the plaintiff instead of George
iMixter.
.2Xotion denied.
MvR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

CAVENDER v. CAVENDER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Argued April 6,185.-Decided April 20, 1885.

An answer in Chancery, setting forth material facts which should have been
stated in the bill, but were omitted, is a waiver of the right to object to
the bill for cause of the omission.
Where the acts or omissions of a trustee show a want of reasonable fidelity to
his trust, a court of equity will remove him.
A neglect by a trustee to invest moneys in his hands is a breach of trust, and
is a ground for removal by a court of equity.

Rbbert S. Cavender, the appellee, was the plaintiff in the
Circuit Court. He stated his case in the bill of complaint substantially as follows:
John Cavender, deceased, by his last will and testament,
dated May 6, 1858, and proved in the Probate Court of the
City-then County-of St. Louis and State of Missouri, February 4, 1862, made and constituted the defendant, John S.
Cavender; executor of his estate, and, after payment of debts,
as therein mentioned, bequeathed one-half of the remainder of

CAVENDER v. CAVENDER.
Statement of Facts.

his estate to John S. Cavender aforesaid, as trustee, to hold
the same in trust for the use and benefit of the plaintiff during
the term of his natural life, and by said will directed him to
invest -the same in real or personal securities, and to pay
over the rents, profits, issues, and incomes thereof to the plaintiff semi-annually, at the end of every half year, during his
lifetime.
The Probate Court, by its order and decree made October
5,1878, found in the hands of the defendant, as such executor,
the sum of $17,169.49 belonging to the trust estate, and directed
him to pay over the same to himself as "trustee; and afterwards, on December 3, 1878, the defendant executed his bond
as trustee, with sureties, in the penalty of $25,000, conditioned
for the faithful execution of his trust. On April 22, 1879,
John S. Cavender, trustee, filed in the Probate Court his
written receipt, whereby he acknowledged that he had received
from John S. Cavender, executor, the sum of $17,169.49, and
thereupon prayed for his discharge as excutor of the said
estate,.which, on the same day, the court granted.
The bill then averred that if the said sum of $17,169.49 had
thereafter been properly invested by the trustee, as by the
terms of the will it became his duty to invest the same, it
would have fairly yielded an annual income of six per cent.,
which was, by the terms of the will, payable semi-annually.
It further alleged-that, by the obligations assumed by John
S. Cavender as trustee of the plaintiff under the will, it became
his duty to set apart and invest in safe and permanent securities said trust fund so ackno.wledged to have been received by
him, in order that it might remain intact, and yield a regular
and certain income to the plaintiff from-year to year. But the
bill averred that Cavender had been guilty of a gross breach
of his trust, that he had never set apart or invested any sum
whatever in securities of any description, or in property or
assets of any sort, as a trust fund for the benefit of plaintiff, or
deposited in bank or elsewhere any sum of money to the credit
of the trust estate, but, on the contrary, had converted to his
own use and dissipated the whole of the trust estate and all
the assets and money belonging thereto, except certain lands in
VOL. cxV-30.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

the State of Illinois, and that the income for the first six
months from the trust funds was due, had been demanded, and
was unpaid at the commencement of the suit.
The bill further averred that there were large tracts of land
in the State of Illinois belonging to the estate of John Cavender, the proceeds and income of which were, under his will, a
part of the trust estate; that the profits of said lands and the
proceeds of their sale would probably be large, which John S.
Cavender would be likely to convert to his own use.
The prayer of the bill was, that Cavender might be removed
from his office of trustee, and a proper person appointed in
his stead, to whom he might be ordered to pay over the said
sum of seventeen thousand one hundred and sixty-nine dollars
and forty-nine cents, with the interest due thereon.
A demurrer was filed to the bill and overruled by the court.
Thereupon Cavender answered, admitting that "fJohn Cavender, deceased, by his last will and testament, dated and
probated as specified in the bill, did constitute the defendant
executor of his estate, and bequeathed one-half the residue of
his estate, after the payment of debts, to the defendant as
trustee, to hold said moiety in trust for the use and benefit of
complainant during complainant's natural life, to be invested
in real or personal securities, and the income thereof only to
be paid over to the complainant, semi-annually, during his lifetime," but averring that, by the. terms of said will, after the
lapse successively of the life estate of complainant and Charlotte M., his wife, in the trust property aforesaid, such property
would descend to defendant and his heirs, in fee simple, forever
discharged of the trust aforesaid.
The answer also admitted "that the Probate Court of the
City of St. Louis, by its judgment of October 5, 1878, found to
be due, and ordered to be paid, by this defendant, as executor
to this defendant as trustee, the sum of $17,169.49, and that
thereafter the defendant made and executed his bond as such
trustee, with good and sufficient sureties, whereby he bound
himself to the State of Missouri, to the use of all persons
beneficially interested, in the penal sum of twenty-five thousand dollars, and conditioned for the faithful performance by

CAVENDER v. CAVENDER.
Statement of Facts.

this defendant as such trustee of the trust created by the
provisions of said will as aforesaid," but denied "that on the
22d day of April, 1879, as alleged in said bill, he filed as
such trustee in said Probate Court his written receipt, whereby he acknowledged to have received from himself as executor the said sum of $17,169.49, and was thereafter, on
April 30, 1879, granted his discharge as executor by said
Probate Court," and averred the fact to be that he had "never
received as trustee, at the date of said alleged receipt, or at
any other time, from himself as executor aforesaid, or from
any source, the sum of seventeen thousand one hundred and
sixty-nine dollars and forty-nine cents, or any other sum
whatsoever, on account of said trust estate," and denied that
any income had accrued in his hands from said trust estate
to which the plaintiff was entitled, and admitted that no part
of such income had ever been paid to the plaintiff.
The' answer admitted that Cavender held the lands referred
to in the bill, and that their proceeds and income should'be
set aside for the benefit of said trust estate, but denied that
he would be likely to convert and absorb the same, and denied that he had mismanaged the trust estate.
The -plaintiff filed the general replication to the answer,
and, upon the final -hearing, besides the admissions of the
answer, offered the following evidence:
First. A certified .copyof the original receipt of the defendant, oji file in the Probate Court of the City of St. Louis,
which was in the words and figures following:
" In the Probate Court, City of St. Louis. In the matter
of the estate of John Cavender, deceased. St. Louis, April
22nd, 1879. I, John S. Cavender, trustee of Robert S. Cavender and others, under the last will and testament of John Cavender, deceased, acknowledge that I have received from John
S. Cavender, executor of said deceased, the sum of seventeen
thousand one hundred and sixty-nine and M dollars, ordered
to be paid to me by said Probate Court. Entered of record in
the records of said court on the 5th day of October, 1878.
John S. Cavender, Trustee."
Second. A certified copy of a paper writing, on file in th.e

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

same Probate Court, signed by W. G. Eliot, George Partridge,
E. S. Rouse andJohn S. Cavender, entitled "In the matter of
the estate of John Cavender, deceased," and dated St. Louis,
April 23, 1879, in which it was recited that John S. Cavender,
executor of the last will of John Cavender, deceased, had,
on October 5, 1878, been ordered by the said Probate Court to
pay over to himself, as trustee of Robert S. Cavender, under
the last will of John Cavender, the sum of $17,169.49, and
after such order the said John S. Cavender, trustee, as principal, and the said Eliot, Partridge and Rouse, as sureties, executed and filed their bond, dated December 3, 1878, in the
penalty of $25,000, conditioned for the faithful execution of his
trust by said trustee, and that said John S. Cavender had
given to himself, as said executor, his receipt, dated April 22,
1879, for the sum of $17,169.49, and, on the strength of said
receipt as avoucher, was about to apply to the said Probate
Court for his discharge as such executor. The writing then
proceeded as follows:
"Now we, William G. Eliot, George Partridge, and Edward
S. Rouse, acknowledge, as such sureties, that said John S.
Cavender, has, in law, received, -and is now .bound, as such
trustee, for said sum of seventeen thousand one hundred and
sixty-nine and M dollars, as for cash actually received, and
that the said bond is still in full force, and binding upon the
undersigned, to all intents and purposes, in contemplation
of law, touqching the custody of said fund, as for cash
actually received, and the execution of said trust concerning
the same.
"And John S. Cavender, on his own part, as trustee and
principal in said bond, admits the full and binding force of the
above admission."
Third. A certified copy of the order of the Probate Court
discharging John S. Cavender as executor of the estate of John
Cavender, deceased, which was.dated April 30, 1879, and was
based on the ground that John S. Cavender had filed a receipt,
signed by himself as trustee, acknowledging the receipt from
himself, as executor, of the sum of $17,169.49, and was as
follows:

CAVENDER v. CAVEN1DER.
Statement of Facts.

"Bstate of John Cavender.
NI~ow comes John S. Cavender, executor, and files the receipt dated April 22, 1879, given by John S. Cavender, trustee
of Robert S. Cavender and Caroline M. Cavender, to said ex.
ecutor, for seventeen th6usand one hundred and sixty-nine
dollars, ordered, by this court October 5, 1878, to be paid by
said executor to said trustee, and it appearing to the court that
on the 9th day of December, 1878, said trustee filed his bond
as t rustee in the St. Louis Circuit Court, conditioned for the
faithful execution of the trust vested in him under *thewill of
said John Cavender, deceased, with William G. Eliot, George
Partridge, and Edward S. Rouse, as sureties; and said trustee,
with said sureties, having, on .the' 23d day of April, 1879, filed
in this court their written admission that said trustee has in
law'received and is bound for said sum of seventeen thousand
one hundred and sixty-nine - dollars, as for cash actually received, and that said bond is in full force as to the custody of
-said sum as for cash actually received, and for the execution of
the trust touching. the same; and said executor, aslking for his
discharge on the strength of said receipt and admission, and
said Robert S. and Caroline M. Cavender, having by counsel,
T. A. Post, appeared to said motion for discharge, and submitting the same ofA their part without argument or objection;
now, therefore, in view of the premises, the court being in possession of the eviqeftce, and having fully considered the same,
doth order that said John S. Cavender be, and he is hereby,
finally discharged as such executor."

All the foregoing evidence was received by the court without objection by the defendant.
Fourth. The deposition of J. S. Fullerton, who testified that,
money could be safely lent on real estate security in the City
of St. Louis, in 1878 and part.of 1879, at seven per cent. per
annum, and in the latter part of 1879, and since that year, at
six per cent. per annum net.
Fifth. The deposition of John S. Cavender, the defendant,
who stated that he was the trustee of Robert S. C'Avender,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

but had made no investments for him, and that he had placed
no money to the benefit of the trust fund in securities of any
sort, or in bank; and. had set aside no annuities for the benefit
of Robert S. Cavender or the trust estate.
No proofs were offered for the defendant, and the court,
upon the evidence above recited, made a decree removing John
S, Cavender as trustee and appointing John M4. Glover in his
stead, and directing Cavender, upon demand, to pay over to
Glover, trustee, the said sum of $17,169.49, and such sums of
money as had been received and collected by Cavender from
sales of land or otherwise since April 30th, 1879, belonging
to the trust fund.
From this decree John S. Cavender appealed.
XM'. Henry Htclwock for appellant.
.Mr.William A. 3fc-enney for appellee.
MR. JusrTic

Woons delivered the opinion of the court.

He

stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
The first contention of the plaintiff in error is that the
demurrer to the bill should have been sustained, because the
nature of the trust was not therein so sufficiently set forth as
to form the foundation of a decree on the part of a court of
equity.
Whether the trust was fully and accurately set forth could
not be known until the filing of the answer or the taking of
the proofs. When the demurrer was heard, from all that then
appeared, the exact provisions of the will of the testator rais:
ing the trust, and all the terms and conditions of the trust,
were stated in the bill. It could not then beknown whether
or not there was anything more to state. What was stated
showed the creation of a trust estate, the appointment of a
trustee, the designation of a cestui que trust, and specific directions to the trustee in respect to his duties. The court could
not assume that any of the provisions of the will relating to
the subject matter of the trust were omitted from the bill, and
what was stated was sufficient, if correctly stated, to enable
the court to act intelligently. The demurrer was, therefore,

CAVENDER v. CAVENDER.
Opinion of the Court.

properly overruled. But the defendant refused to stand on his
demurrer and answered the bill.' Having, as it may be fairly
presumed, the will of the testator before him, he undertook to
set out in his answer, under oath, the provisions of the will in
respect to the trust estate and trust in question. There is no
pretence that any material word or clause, in relation to the
subject of the trust was omitted from the answer. It is, therefore, too late for the defendant, on final hearing in the appel:
late court., to object that the provisions of the will were not
fully set out in the bill of complaint. If there was any defect
in the statement made.in the bill, it was rendered immaterial
by the statements of the answer, and is not now ground of
complaint.. Gr~enleafv. Birth, 5 Pet. 131.
A similar assignment of error to that just noticed is, that the
court erred in removing the appellee from his office of trustee
without having.before it the will or declaration of trust-for interpretation.
But it is clear that a defendant to a bill in equity, who states
in his answer under oath the provisions of a writing, which is
presumed to be in his possession, cannot complain that the court
acted upon his admission. The court might in its discretion
have refused to interpret the writing without its production.
But having acted upon the presumption that the defendant in
his answer stated truly the contents of the writing, the latter
cannot, on the ground that the writing itself was not put in
evidence, ask a reversal of the decree. Courts of equity are
frequently required to act on the admissions of the answer
without other proof. Thus, when a cause is heard upon bill
and answer, the decree is based entirely on the admissions
the answer without other testimony. Reynol. v. Crawford'
,ille Bank, 112 U. S. 405; Brinkerhof v. _Brown, 7 John'g
Ch. 217; Grosvenor v. Cartwright,2 Gas. Oh. 21 ; Perkinsv."
Nichols, 11 Allen, 542. At all events, it does not lie in the
mouth of a defendant in equity to complain that the court
assumed his answer made under oath to be true and decreed
accordingly.
The next assignment of error is that the decree rendered by
the Circuit Court is not justified by the law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

The decree rests solely on the ground alleged in the bill, of
neglect of duty and mismanagement of the trust property. If
these grounds are sustained by the proof the authorities are
ample to justify the decree of removal. For, where the acts
or omissions of the trustee are such as to show a want of reasonable fidelity, a court of equity will remove -him. Ex yarle
Phelps, 9 Mod. 357; fayor of Coventry v. Attorney-General,,
7 Brown Par. Cas. 235; Attorney-General v. Drummond,
1 Drury & Warren, 353; Attorney-General v. Shore, 7 Sim.
309 n; Exparte Greenhouse, 1 Madd. 92; Ex parte Rieynolds,
5 Yes. 707: Olemens' v. Caldwell, 7 B. Mon. 171; Johnson's
Appeal, 9 Penn. St. 416; Ex parte Potts, 1 Ashmead, 340;
Buchanan v. Hamilton, 5 Ves. 722; Ellison v. Ellison, 6 Yes.
656, 663; Portsmouth v. Fellows, 5 Madd. 450'; Lothrop v. Smalley, 8 C. E. Green (23 N. J Eq.), 192; Hussey v. Cofln, 1 Allen,
354; .Attorney-Generalv. Garrison, 101 Mass. 223.
The averments of the bill sufficiently charge, and the proofs
establish, neglect of duty and mismanagement of the trust
estate. The charge of the bill, which is distinctly admitted by
the answer, is, that the Probate Court found in the hands of the
appellant, executor of John Cavender, as due and belonging to
said trust estate, the sum of $17,169.49, and ordered him to
pay over that sum to himself as trustee. The averment of the
bill is sufficient to charge, and the admission of the answer sufficient to prove, the xeceipt by the defendant, as trustee, of the
sum of money mentioned. They are conclusive evidence of the
fact. For when one person is to pay money and receive the
same money, and nothing remains but to enter receipts and
payments in their proper accounts accordingly, the law will
consider that as done which ought to be done. Thus, where a
sole executor sustains the two-fold character of executor and
guardian, the law will adjudge the ward's proportion of the
property in his hands to be in his hands in the capacity of
guardian, after the time limited by law for the settlement of
the estate, whether the final account has been passed by the
Orphan's Court or not. WVatkins v. State, 2 Gill & J. 220. So,
where the same person is executor of an estate and guardian
of a distributee, and there is nothing to show in which capacity

CAVENDER v. CAVENDER.
Opinion of the Court.

he holds funds after payment of debts and settlement of the
estate, he shall be presumed to hold them as guardian. The
State v. Hlearst,12 Missouri, 365. See also oJohnom v. Johnson,
2 Hill, . .a Eq. 277; Harr v. Karr, 6 Dana, .

But the proof that the trust fund came to the hands of the
trustee does not stop with the order and decree of the Probate
Court finding the money in his hands as executor, and directing its payment to himself as trustee, for it appears that he made.
and filed in the Probate Court his receipt as trustee for the
fund, and upon the strength of that receipt procured his discharge as executor. The record of the Probate Court, put in
evidence, shows these facts. We have, therefore, the admission of record bf the appellant,, upon which the Court of
Probate acted, at his instance, and upon the strength of which
it made an order relieving him from liability as executor, and it
is binding on him, and he cannot be heard in any controversy
with the appellee to deny his admission that the fund came to
his hands.
It remains to inquire whether the proof sustains the charge
of neglect of duty and mismanagement of the trust funds.
Having taken possessioh of the trust moneys, it became the
duty of the appellant to invest them as directed by the -will, if
it were possible to do so. The proof shows that it was possible. The appellant admits, under oath, that he has made
no investments of the trust assets, and placed no funds in
securities of any sort, or in bank, and set aside no annuities for
the benefit of the cetui que trust or the trust estate. His own
admissions show neglect of duty and mismanagement of the
trust estate.
The neglect to invest constitutes of itself a breach of ,trust,
and is ground for removal. Clemens v. Caldwell, 'I B. Mon.
171, 111; .Lathrop v. Smalley above cited.
The only defence set up in the answer of the appellant is a
denial that he. ever gave a receipt as trustee, or that he had
been discharged as executor by the Probate Court, or that the
trust fund ever came to his hands. As the facts thus denied
are conclusively established by the evidence, the denial is an
aggravation of the misconduct of the appellant. A trustee,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

into whose hands trust assets are shown to have come, who
not only fails to discharge any duty of the trust, but even
denies that he has ever received the property, cannot successfully resist an application made to a court of equity for his
removal.
The counsel for appellant say that they regret that the pleadings and evidence do not permit a full presentation of the case
upon its merits. We cannot act on this vague intimation.
There may be facts not disclosed which, if shown by the record,
would entirely change the aspect of the case. But we must
try the case as the record reveals it. Upon the cause, as presented, with no explanation vouchsafed by the appellant, it is
difficult to conceive of a clearer case for the removal of a trustee and the appointment of another in his stead.
-Decreea/ffrmed.

BURTON v. WEST JERSEY FERRY COMPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE

NITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued April 9, 1885.-Decided April 20, 1885.

i general exception to a charge, which does not direct the attention of the
court to the particular portions of it to which objection is made, raises no
question for review by this court.
.he failure of a steam ferry company, engaged in transporting passengers for
hire across a river, to provide seats enough for all, is not negligence, entailing,Iiability for injury by accident, unless it appears that a less number of
seats was provided than was customary and sufficient for those who ordinarily preferred to be seated while crossing.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
M'. Jerome Carty [M!r. B. Frank Clajp and -,r.Alayer
Sulzberger were with him] for plaintiff in error.

