THE BELGENLAND.
Syllabus.

sion, with such rights as the law gave them, but certainly with
no right to eject the company or its successors or grantees.
They were to construct twenty miles of road for $14,750 per
mile. When all was done and paid for they were fo transfer
what right they had to the road under the Opelika and Oxford
organization. But they yielded np possession of that with the
new work. As to what they obtained by the sheriff's sale and
deed, they acquired nothing thereby, formerly belonging to the
Opelika and Oxford company, tnder the name of right of way,
granted to or acquired by that company, which was capable of
being conveyed by them; and as to anything else, their right did
not lie in ejectment. Whether they were vendors or creditors
in respect to what they so agreed to transfer, it is not necessary
or proper to determine in this suit. There was nothing in what
occurred between the parties, or in the contract, or in the transactions under it, which estopped the defendant from disputing
the right of the plaintiffs to recover in 'ejectment on the
strength of their title.
It follows, from these views, that the Circuit Court erred in
its first and third charges to the jury, and, as this conclusion
goes to show that the plaintiffs, had no 'title on which they
could recover in ejectment, it becomes unnecessary to consider
any of the other questions raised by the defendant.
1he judgment is reversed, and-the case is remanded to the
Circuit Court,with a direction to grant a new trial..

THE BELGENLAND.
APPEAL mom TiE cIRcurr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued January16, 1885.-Decided April 13,1885.

A colliton on the high seas between vessels of different nationalities is prima
facie a proper subject of inquiry in any court of Admiralty which first obtains jurisdiction.
Th Courts of the United States in Admiralty may, in their discretion, take
jurisdiction over a collision on the high seas between two foleign vessels.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.
Among the circumstances which may determine a court below in exercising its
discretion to take or refuse jurisdiction over foreign vessels, their officers and
crew in ports of the United States are : (1) That both vessels are subject to
the laws of the same country, and that resort may be had to its courts
without difficulty; (2) That the disputes are between seamen and the
master, and that, in the absence of a treaty, the consul of the country does
not assent to the jurisdiction (but this assent, in the absence of a treaty, is
not necessary when the complaifit is for arbitrary dismissal or acts of
cruelty); (3)When the jlirisdiction is invoked for matters which affect only
parties on the vessel, and which have to be determined by the laws of the
country to which the vessel belongs.
When a controversy in Admiralty between foreign vessels in the courts of the
United States arises under the common law of nations, the court below
should take jurisdiction, unless special grounds are shown why it should
not do so.
When the court below has taken jurisdiction in case of a collision between two
foreign vessels on the high seas, it is incumbent on the party appealing to
this court, and questioning the jurisdiction, to show that the court below
exercised its discretion to take jurisdiction on wrong principles, or acted so
differently from the view held here, that it may justly be held to have exercised it wrongfully.
In a proceeding in Admiralty against one foreign vessel for collision with
another foreign vessel on the high seas, the general maritime law, as under'stood and administered in the courts of the country in which the litigation
is prosecuted, is the law governing the case ; except : (1) That persons on
either ship will not be open to blame for following the sailing regulations
and rules of navigation prescribed by their own government for their direction on the high seas; and, (2) That if the maritime law, as administered
by both nations to which the respective ships belong, be the same in both,
in respect to any matter of liability or obligation, such law, if shown to the
court, should be followed, although different from the maritime law of the
country of the forum.
When facts found by the court below furnish conclusive proof of negligence,
negligence may be regarded as among the conclusions of law to be legally
inferred from those facts.

This case grew out of a collision which took place on the
high seas between the Norwegian barque Luna and the Belgian
steamship Belgenland, by which the former was run down and
sunk. Part of the crew of the Luna, including the master, were
rescued by the Belgenland and brought to Philadelphia. The
master immediately libelled the steamship on behalf of the
owners of the Luna and her cargo, and her surviving crew, in
a cause civil-and maritime.

THE .BELGiNLAND.
Statement of Facts.

The libel stated in substance thnt, the barque Luna, of 359
tons, was on a voyage from Porto Rico to QueenstoVn, or
Falmouth7 with a cargo of sugar, and when in latitude 440 33',
and longitude 21' 43', was .met by the steamship Belgenland,
end on, between one and two in the morning, and was run
down and sunk by her; only five of her crew escaping; that
the light of the steamship was observed right ahead when a
mile or more off; that the barque kept her course as was her duty
to do; and that the steamship took no measures to avoid hber,
but came on at full speed until she struck tWe Luna; and that
.the collision was altogether the fault of those in .charge of the
steamship.
The master of the Belgenland appeared for her owners, and
filed an answer, denying that the Lina, at the time of the collision; was sailing on the course allegcd, and averred that she
was crossing the bows of the steamship, and must have changed
her course, and that this was the cause of the collision; that
the Luna was not discovered until the instant of the collision,
when it was too'late..to alter the course of the steamship; an.
that the reason why the bdrque was not seen before was, .that
she was enveloped in a shower of rain and mist; and that the
steamship was plunging into a heavy head sea, throwing water
over'her turtle deck forward.
The proctor for the Belgenland, at the time of filing his answer, excepted to the jurisdiction of the court. and stated for
cause, thatthe alleged collision took place between foreign vessels on the high seas, and not within the jurisdiction of the
United States; that the Belgenland was a Belgian vessel, belonging to the port of Antwerp, in the Kingdom of Belgium,
running a regular line between Antwerp and the ports of New
York and Philadelphia, and that the bark Luna was a Norwegian vessel, and that no American citizen was interested in
the barque or her cargo.
The District Court decided in favor of the libellant, ad rendered a decree for the various parties interested, to the aggregate
amount of $50,278.23. An appeal was taken to the Circuit
Court, which found the following facts, to wit:
"1. Between one and two o'clock in the morning of Sep-

OCTOBER TERMI, 184.
Statement of Facts.

tember 3, 1S79, in mid ocean, a collision occurred between the
Norwegian barque Luna, on her voyage from Humacao, in
Porto Rico, to Queenstown or Fahnouth, and the steamship
Belgenland, on a voyage from Antwerp to Philadelphia, which
resulted in the sinking of the barque, in the total loss of the
vessel and her carao, and in the drowning of five of her
crew.

" 2. The wind was between S. W. and W. S. W., and there
was not much sea, but a heavy swell. The bark was runfiing
free, heading S. E. by E. half E., having the wind on her starboard quarter. All her square sails were set except her main
royal, and she carried also her fore, main, and mizzen stay sails
and inner jib. Her yards were braced a little, her main sheet
was down but the weather-clew was up. She was making about
seven and one-half knots. Her watch on deck consisted of the
first mate and three men; an able seaman was on the lookout
on the top-gallant forecastle, and a capable helmsman was at
the wheel.
"She carried a red light on her port side and a green light
on her starboard side, properly set and burning brightly, which
could be seen, on a dark, night, and with a clear atmosphere, at
least two miles. The character and location of these lights
conformed to the regulations of the barque's nationality, which
are the same as those of the British Board of Trade. About
1.45 o'clock the look oui sighted the white masthead light of a
steamer right ahead, distant, as he thought, about a mile, and
reported it at once to the mate, who cautioned the man at the
wheel to 'keep her steady and be very careful,' and the
barque held her course.
"No side lights on the steamer were seen from the barque,
but, as the vessels approached each other, the white light of the
steamer gradually drew a little on the port bow of the barque
for three or four minutes. The mate of the barque deeing the
steamer's sails, and that she was heading directly for the
barque, was close aboard of her, and reasonably apprehending
that a collision was inevitable, ordered the barque's helm hard
a-port. In a few seconds the steamer's starboard light came
into view, and in another instant she struck the barque on her

THE BELGENLAND.
Statement of Facts.

port side, cutting her in two obliquely from the after part of
her fore rigging to the fore part of the main'tigging.
"3. The Belgenland was steeriig N. W. by W. half W. by
compass, and maling about eleven knots. _Ier second officer
had charge of the deck, and jhis watch was composed of ten
able seamen, two quartermasters,: the second boatswain, and
the fourth officer. One able seamen was stationed on the lee
or starboard side of the bridge as a lookout. The second offlcer was on the bridge.- The fourth officer was stationed at the
after or standard compass, which was near the mizzen-mast,
but at the time-was on the bridge, having come there to report a.cast of the log. A quartermaster was at the wheel.
The rest of the watch were underneath the iurtle-back or topgallant forecastle.
"The steamer wasfour hundred and sixteen feet long and
about thirty-eight feet beam. The bridge was one hundred and
fifty or one hundred, and eighty feet from her bow, and was
six or seven feet higher than the top of the turtle-back, which
was about twenty-five feet above the water.
"The steamer had her fore, main and mizzen try-sails, fore
stay sails and jib set and drawing, and probably her jigger
also. She heeled to starboard from ten to fifteen degrees.
". The only lookout on the steamer was -on the bridge.
'None was on the tuftle-back, although it would have been entirely safe to station bne there, for the alleged.reason that the
tessel was plunging into-a bead sea, and taking so'much water
over her bows that he would have been of no use there.
"5. The barque was- not seen by thos6 in charge of the
steamer until just at thieinstaut of the collision, when the second
officer saw her head sails just across the steamer's bow, the lookout in the lee side of the bridge saw her after sails and stern.
"6. The moon *as up, but was obscured, by clouds. There
was no fog, but occasional rain with mist, and the wind was
blowing from the S. W. to W. S. W.
"7. Objects could be seen at the distance of from five hundred yards to a mile. The masthead light of the steamer was
sighted and, at once reported by the lookout on the barque, at
the distance of about a mile; the port light of the barque was

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

seen by a steerage passenger on the steamer, looking out of his
room just under the bridge,'and reported to his room mates
long enough before the collision to enable the second steerage
steward, who heard the report, to go up the companion ladder,
cross the deck, and reach the steamer's rail; after the collision,
the mizzeft-mast of the barque was all of her above water, and
this was distinctly seen from 1he steamer when she was at the
distance of five hundred yards from it.
"8. The damages caused by the collision were assessed at
850,248.232'
Upon tbese facts the court below deduced the following
conclusions :
"1. That the vessels were approaching each. other from opposite directions, upon lines so close to each other as to involve
the necessity of a deflection by one or the other of them to
avoid a collision.
"2. That the lookout on the barque saw the steamer when
she was nearly a mile distant, ahd'she was held st6adily on her
course, and that she thereby fulfilled her legal obligation'
Even if her helm was ported, it was at a time and under circumstances which did not involve any culpability on-her part.
"3. That it was the duty of the steamer to keep out of the
way of the barque, and, to that -end, so to change her course as
to preclude all danger of collision.
. "4. That the barque could and, ought to have been seen by
the steamer when they, were sufficiently distant from each
bther to enable the steamer to give the barque enough sea
room to avert any risk of collision. In this failure to observe
the barque The steamer was negligent.
•"5. No satisfactory -orsufficient reason is furnished by the
respondent's evidence for this failure of observation. If it resulted from the inattention of the steamer's lookout, or because
their vision was interceptel by her fore try-sail, she was clearly
culpable. If it is explicable by the condition of the atmosphere,
no matter by what cause it was produced, it was the steamer's
dutylto reduce her speed, and to place a lookout on her turtleback. An omission to observe these precautions was negligence.

THE BELGENLAND.

301

Opinion of the Court.

"But, considering the proof that the barque held her course,
and that the steamer might have seen her by proper vigilance,
when suitable precaution against collision might have been
tacen, a mere speculative explanation of the steamer's presumptive culpability cannot be accepted as sufficient."
A decree was thereupon entered, affirming the decree of
the District Court in favor of the libellants for the sum of
$0,748.23, with interest from March 2c, 1881, amounting to
$51,95-1.14, and costs.' 9 Fed. Rep. 126.
A reargument was had on the question of jurisdiction, and
the court held and decided that the Admiralty Courts of the
United States 'have jurisdiction of collisions occurring-on the
high seas between vessels owned by foreigners of different
nationalities; and overruled the plea to the jurisdiction. 9 Fed.
Rep. 576. The case was brought before this court on appeal from
the decree of the Circuit Court. See also 108 U. S. 153.
Xr. fforton P. Henry and Xr.Henry R. Edmunds for appellafits.
-Yr.HZenry Flanders and

r.J Langdon Wrardfor appellee.

M. JUSTiE BRADLEY delivered the opiion ofthe-court. He
stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
The first question to beIconsidered is:that of the jurisdiction
of the District Court to hear and determine the cause.
It is unnecessary here, and would be out of place, to examine
the question which has.so often engaged the attentioff of the
common law courts, whether, and in what cases, the courts of
one country should take cognizance of controversies arising'in
a foreign country, or in places outside of the jurisdictiori of any
country. It is very fully discussed in .Mostyn v. Fabriga6,
Cowp. 161, and the notes thereto in I Smfith's Leading Cases,
340 ; and an instructive analysis of the law will be found in the
elaborate arguments of counsel in the case of the San Francisco
Vigilant Committee, .falony v. ])ows, 8 Abbott Pr. 316, argued
before Judge Daly in New York, 1859. We shall content ourselves with inquiring what rule is followed by Courts of

OCTOBER TERMI, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

Admiralty in dealig with maritime causes arising between
foreigners and others on the high seas.
This question is not a new one in these courts. Sir William
Scott had occasion to pass upon it in 1799. An American ship
was taken by the French on a voyage from Philadelphia to
London, and afterwards rescued by her crew, carried to England, and libelled for salvage; and the court entertained jurisdiction. The crew, however, though engaged in the American
ship, were British born subjects, and weight was given to this
circumstance in the disposition of the case. The judge, however, made the following remarks: "But it is asked, if they
were American seamen would this court hold plea of their demands? It may be time enough to answer this question whenever the fact occurs. In the meantime, I will say without
scruple that I can see no inconvenience that would arise if a
British court of justice was to hold plea in such a case; or conversely, if American. courts were to hold pleas of this nature
respecting the merits of British seamen on such occasions. For
salvage is a question of jus gentium, and materially different
from the question of a mariner's contract, which is a creature
of the particular institutions of the country, to be applied and
construed and explained by its own particular rules. There
might be good reason, therefore, for this court to decline to interfere in such cases, and to remit them to their own domestic
forum; but this is a general claim, upon the general ground
of -quantum meruit, to be governed by a sound discretion, acting. on general principles; and I can see no reason why one
country should be afraid to trust to the equity of the courts of
another on such a question, of such a nature, so to be determined." YThe Two Friends,1 Oh. Rob., 271, 278.
The law has become settled very much in accord with these
views. That was a case of salvage; but the same principles
would seem to apply to the case of destroying or injuring a
ship, as to that of- saving it. 'Both, when acted on the high
seas, between persons of different nationalities, come within
the domain of the general law of nations, or communsjuris,
and.are primcfacie proper subjects of inquiry in any Court of
Admiralty which first obtains jurisdiction of the rescued or

THE BELGENLAND.
Opinion of the Court.

offending ship at the solicitation in justice of the meritorious,
or injured, parties.
The same question of jurisdiction arose in another salvage case
which came before this court in 1804, Xason v. The Blaireau,.
2 Cranch, 240. There a French ship was saved by a British
ship, and brought into a port of the United States.; and the
question of jurisdiction was raised by Mr. Martin, of Maryland, who, however, did not press the:point, and referred to
the observations of Sir William' Scptt in The [ oo _F iends.
Chief Justice Marshall, speaking for the court, disposed of the
question as follows: "A doubt has been suggested," said he,
""respecting the jurisdiction of the court, and upon a reference
to the authorities, the point does not appear to have been ever
settled. These doubts seem. rather founded on. the idea that
upon principles of general policy, this court ought not to take
cognizance of a' case entirely between, foreigners, than from
any positive incapacityoto do so. - Oj veighiing the considerations drawn from public convenienc,) those. in favor of the
jurisdiction appear much to over-baln.be those against it, and
it is the opinion of this court, that, whateveripubts may exist

ina case where the jurisdiction may be objetdto, there ought
'to be-none where the parties assent toit." Zn that case, the
objection had not been taken in the first instance, as it was in
the present. But we do .uot see hdiy'that ircumstance can
affect the jurisdiction of the court, however much it may influence its discretion in taking jurisdiction.
For circuinstbnces often exist which render it inexpedient
for. the court to take j urisdiction.of controversies -etween foreigners in cases, not arising in the country of th6 forum; as,
where they are governed by the laws of the country,'to which the
parties belong, and there isno difficulty in a resort~to its courts "
or where they have agreed to resort to no other tribunals.
The cases of foreign seamen suing for wages, or ]ecause of ill
treatrh'ent, are often in this category; and'the consent of their
consul, or minister, is frequently required before the court -will.
proceed to entertain jurisdiction ; not on the grolnd1 that it has
not jurisdiction ; but that, from motives of convenience or..n
ternational comity, it will use its discretion whether to exercise

364:

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Cour.

jurisdiction or not; and where the voyage is ended, or the sea,
men have been dismissed or treated with great cruelty, it will
entertain jurisdiction even against the protest of the consul.
This branch of the subject will be found discussed in the following cases: The. Catherina,1 -Pet. Adm. 104; The F6i,86ket,
1 Pet. Adm. 197; The St. Oloff, 2 Pet. Adm. 428; The Golubchick, 1 W. Rob. 143; The Vina, L. R. 2 Adm. and Eccl. 44;
S. C. on appeal, L. R. 2 Priv. Co. 38; The Leon XII.,
8 Prob.
Div. 121; The avana, 1 Sprague, 402; The Becherd"zes Ambaidass, 1 Lowell, 569; The Pawascldk, 2 Lowell, 142.
Of course, if any treaty stipulations exist between the United
States and the country to which a foreign ship belongs, with
regard to the right of the consul of that country to adjudge
controversies arising between the master and crew, or other
matters occurring on the ship exclusively subject to the foreign
law, such stipulations should be fairly and faithfully observed.
The Elwin Kreplin, 9. Blatcl~ford, 438, reversing S. C. 4 Ben.
413; see S. C. on application for mandamus, Ex- parte _Yewman, 14 Wall. 152. Many public engagements of this kind
have been entered into between our government and foreign
States. See Trieaties and Conventions, Rev. Ed. 1873, Index,
1238.
In the absence of such treaty stipulations, however, the case
of foreign seamen is undoubtedly a special one, when they sue
for wages under a contract which is generally strict in its character, and framed according to the laws of the country to
which the ship belongs; framed also with a view to secure, in
accordance with those laws, the. rights and interests of the
ship-owners as well as those of master and crew, as well when
the- ship is abroad as when she is at home.. Nor is this special
character of the case entirely absent when foreign seamen sue
the master of their ship for ill-treatment. On general principles of comity, Admiralty Courts of other countries will not
interfere between the parties in such cases unless there is special reason for doing so, and will require the foreign consul to
be notified, and, though not absolutely bound by, will always
pay due respect to, his wishes as to taking jurisdiction.
iNot alone, however, in cases of complaints made by foreign

THE BELGENLAND.
Opinion of the Court.

seamen, but in other cases also, where the subjects of a particular nation invoke the aid of our tribunals to adjudicate between
them and their fellow subjects, as to matters of contract or
tort solely affecting themselves and determinable by their own
laws, such tribunals will exercise their discretion whether to
take cognizance of such matters or not. A salvage case of
this kind came before the United States District Court of New
York in 18-18. The master and crew of a British ship found
another British ship near the English coast apparently abandoned (though another vessel was in sight), and took off a portion of her cargo, brought it to New York, and libeled it for
salvage. The British consul and some owners of the cargo intervened and protested against the jurisdiction, and Judge
lBetts discharged the case, delivered the property to the owners
upon security given, and left the salvors to pursue their remedy
in the English courts. One hund'red and .ffnety-four Shawls,
1 Abbott, Adm. 317.
So -in, a question of ownership of a foreign vessel, agitated
between the subjects of the nation to which the vessel belonged,
the English Admiralty, upon objection being made to its jurisdiction, refused to interfere, the consul of such foreign nation
having declined to give his consent t6 the proceedings. The
Agincourzt, 2 Prob. Div., 239. But in another case, where
there had been an adjudication of the ownership under a mortgage in the foreign country, and the consul of that country requested tle English court to take jurisdiction of the case upon
a libel filed by the mortgagee, whom the owners had dispossessed, the court took jurisdiction accordingly. The Evangelistria, 2 Prob. Div., 241,.'note.
But, although the courts will use a discretion about assuming
jurisdiction of dontroversies between foreigners in cases arising
beyond the territorial jurisdiction of the country to which the
courts belong, yet where such controversies are communisjuris,
that is, where they arise finder the common law of nations,
special grounds should appear to induce the court to deny its
aid to a foreign suitor when it has jurisdiction of the ship or
party charged. The existence of jurisdiction in all such cases
is beyond dispute; the only question will be, whether it is ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

pedient to exercise it. See 2 .Parsons Ship. and Adm., 226, and
cases cited in notes. In the case of Te Jerusaern, 2 Gall.
i91, decided by Mr. Justice Story, jurisdiction was exercised
in the case of a, bottomry bond, although the contract was
made between subjects of the Sublime Porte, and it did not
appear that it was intended that the vessel should come to the
United States. In this case Justice Story examined the subject very fully, and came to the conclusion that, wherever there
is a maritime lien on the ship, an Admiralty Court can take
jurisdiction on the principle of the civil law, that in proceedings in rem the proper forum is the locus rei sitam. lie added:
"With reference, therefore, to what may be deemed the public
law of Europe, a proceeding in rem may well be maintained
in our courts where the property of a foreigner is within our
jurisdiction. Nor am I .able to perceive how the exercise of
such judicial authority clashes with any.principles of public
policy." That, as we have seen, was a case of bottomry, and
Justice Story, in answer to the objection that the contract
might have been. entered into in reference to the foreigp law,
after showing that such law might be proven here, said: "In
respect to maritime contracts, there is still less reason to decline
the jurisdiction, for in almost all civilized countries these are in
general substantially governed by the same rules."
Justice Story's decision in this case was referred to by Dr.
Lushington with strong approbation in the case of The Golubchick, 1 W. Rob. 143, decided in 1840, and was adopted as
authority for his taking jurisdiction in that case.
In- 1839, a case of collision on thehigh seas between two
foreign ships of different countries (the very case now under
consideration) came before the English Admiralty. The Johann
Friederich, 1 W. IRob. 35. A Danish ship was sunk by a
Bremen ship, and on th6-lafter being libelled, the respondents
entered a protest against the jurisdiction of the court. But
jurisdiction was retained by Dr. Lushington, who, amongst
other things, remarked: "An alien friend is entitled to sue [in
our courts] on the same footing as a British born"subject, and
if the foreigner in this case had been resident here, and the
cause of action had originated infra corpus comittus, no ob-

THE BELGENLAND.
Opinion of the Court.

jection'could have been taken:.''Reference being made to the
observations of Lord Stowell in 'cases of seamen's wages, the
judge said: " All questions of collisi6n arb questions commun./s
*Juris; but in case of mariners' wages, whoever engages volun*tarily to serve on board a foreign ship, necessarily undertakes
to be bound by the law of the country to which such ship belongs, and the legality of his claim must be tried by such law.
One of the most important distinctions, therefore, respecting
cases where both parties are foreigners is, whether the case be
communisjuris or not.

.

. . If these parties must wait until

the vessel that has done the injury returned to its own country,
their remedy might be altogether lost, for she might never return, and, if she did, there is no part of the world to which
they might not be sent for their redress."
In the gubsequent case of .The G.fswald, 1 Swabey, 430r
decided by the same -judge in 1859, which arose out of a collision between a British barque and a Persian ship in the Dardanelles, Dr. Lushington said: "In cases of collision,'it has
been the practice of this country, ancdso far as I know, of the
European States and of the United States of America, to allow
a party alleging grievaince by a collision to proceedin -em
against the ship wherever found, and this practice,-it is manifest, is most conducive to justice, because in very many cases a
remedy inpersonam would be impracticable."
The subject has frequently been before our own Admiralty
Courts of orignal jurisdiction, and there has bqen but one
opinion expressed, namely, that they have jurisdiction in such
cases, and that they will exercise it unless special circumstances
exist to show that justice w6uld be better subserved by declining it. It 'was exercised in two cases of collision coming before Mr. Justice Blatchford, whilst District Judge of the
Southern District of New York, The Jupiter, 1 Ben. 536, and
The Steamship Russia, 3 Ben. 471. In the former case the
law was taken ver much for granted; in the latter it Was
tdrsely and accurately expounded, with a reference to the
principal authorities. Other cases might'15e referred to, but-it
is unnecessary to cite them. The general doctrine on the subject is recognized in the case of The.3laggie .Hamnion.d, 9 Wall.

.OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

435, 457, and is accurately stated by Chief Justice Tanev in his
dissenting opinion in Taylor v. Carryl, 20 How. 583, 611.
As the assumption of jdrisdiction in such cases depends so
largely on the discretion of the court of first instance, it is
necessary to inquire how far an appellate court should undertake to review its action. We are not without authority of a
very hfigh character on this point. In a quite recent case in
England, that of T/he leon =II., 8 Prob. Div. 121, the subject was discussed in the Court of Appeal. That was the
case of a Spanish vessel libelled for the wages of certain British seamen who had shipped on board of her, and the Spanish
consul at tiverpool. protested against the jurisdiction of the
Admiralty Court on the ground that the shipping articles were
a Spanish contract, to be governed by Spanish law, and any
controversy arising thereon could only be settled before a
Spanish court, or consul. Sir Robert Phillimore held that the
seamen were to be regarded for that case as Spanish subjects,
and, under the circumstances, he considered the protest a
proper one and dismissed the suit. The Court of Appeal
held that the judge below was right in regarding the libellants
as Spanish subjects; and on the question of reviewing his exercise of discretion in refusing to take jurisdiction of the case,
Brett, M. R. said: "It is then said that the learned judge has
exercised his discretion wrongly. What then is the rule as regards this point in the Court of Appeal? The plaintiffs must
show that the judge has exercised his discretion on wrong
principles, or that he has acted so absolutely differently from
the view which the Court of Appeal holds, that they are
justified in saying he has exercised it wrongly. I cannot see
that any wrong V,inciple has been acted on by the learned
judge, or anything done in the exercise of his discretion so unjust or unfair as to entitle us to overrule his discretion."
This seems to us to be a very sound view of the subject;
and acting on this principle, we certainly see nothing in the
course taken by the District Court in assuming jurisdiction of
the present case, which calls for animadversion. Indeed, where
the parties are not only foreigners, but belong to different nations, and the injury or salvage -service takes place on

THE BELGENIAND.
Opinion of the Court.

the high seas, there seems to be no good reason why the party
injured, or doing the service, should ever be denied jusfice in
our courts. Neither party has any peculiar claim to be judged
by the municipal law of his own country, since the case is preeminontly one communis juris, and can generalr be more inpartially and satisfactorily adjudicated by the court of a third
nation having jurisdiction of the res or parties, than it could
be by the courts of either of thenations to which the litigants
belong. As Judge Deady very justly said, in a case before
him in the district of Oregon: "The parties cannot be remitted
to a home forum, for, being subjects of different governments,'
there is no such tribunal. The forum which is common to
them both by thejue entium is any court of admiralty within
the reach of whose process they may both be found." Bernhard v. Greene, 3 Sawyer, 230, 235.
As to the law which should be applied in cases between
parties, or ships, of different nationalities, arising on the high
seas, not within the jurisdiction of any nation,, there can be no
doubt that it must be the general maritime law, as understood
and administdred in the courts of the country in which the
litigation is prosecuted.' This rule is laid down in many cases;
amongst others the following: The Johanib Friederich,1 W.
Rob. 35 ; The .Dumfries,1 SwabEy, Q3 ; The Zollvere7n, 1 Swabey, 96; The GriefswaZd, 1 Swabey, 430; The Wild Ranger,
Lush. 553; -The Belle, 1 Ben. 317, 320; The Scotia, 14 Wall.
170; The Scotland, 105 V. S.24, 29; The Leon, 6 Prob. Div.
148. In the case last cited, which was that of a British ship
run dowrl by the Leon, a Spanish ship, the question was specifically raised by the respondents, (the owners of .the Leon,)
who set up in defence, that if there was any negligence in her
navigation, her master and crew, and not her owners, were
liable by the Spanish law. This defence was overruled, and
the general maritime law, as understood and administered in
England, was held to govern the case; by which law the owners were held responsible. The same rule was followed by this
court in The Scotland, and was applied to the collision of a
British with an American ship on the high seas; although, it is
true, we applied to that case the rule of limited liability estabvoL.

cxiv-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

lished by the act of Congress, regarding that act as declarative
of the general maritime law to be administered by our courts.
The rule requiring the application of the general maritime
law to such cases has some -qualifications, which, though not
aflecting the present case, should always be borne in mind.
One of these qualifications is, that the persons in charge of
either ship will not be open to blame for following the sailing
regulations and rules of navigation prescribed by their own
government for their direction on the high seas; because they
are bound to obey such regulations. The Scotia, 14 Wall. 170,
181. Another qualification is, that if the maritime law, as
administered by both nations to which the respective ships
belong, be the same in both in respect to any matter of liability
or obligation, such law, if shown to the court, should be followed
in that matter in r~spect to which they so agree, though it differ
from the maritime law as understood in the country of the
forum; for, as respects the parties concerned, it is the maritime
law which they mutually acknowledge. The Scotland, 105 U
S. 24, 31.
The first of these qualifications can rarely be called into
requisition at the present day, since, for rmore than twenty years
past, all the principal maritime nations of the world (at least
those whose vessels navigate the Atlantic Ocean) have concurred in adopting a uniform set of rules and regulations for
the government of vessels on the high seas. These rules and
regulations have become international, and virtually a part of
the maritime law. Thw Scotia, 14 Wall. 170, 187. They will
be presumed to be binding upon foreign as well as domestic
ships unless the contrary is made to appear.*
We are then bro.ght to the question-of the merits of the
case between the parties as shown by the pleadings and finding
-Noteby the Court.-The International Rules of 1863, Abbott on Shipping,
11th Ed., App. CCCLXIX; 13 Rev. Stat. 58, were revised by an Order of Council
in England, in August, 1879, to take effect from the 1st of September, 1880,
and as thus revised have been adopted by most commercial nations See 4 Prob.
Div. 241-249. - They were adopted for both public and private vessels of the
United States byacr of Corngress approved March 3,1885. PublicAct, No. 100.
They had been adopted for public vessels before. See Luce's Seamanship, 360,
Ed. 1884.

THE BEL ENLAND.

37111 .

Opinion of the Court.

of facts. And this does not require any extended discussion.
It is shown that the barque had her Proper lights burning
brightly, visible on a dark night, and with a clear atmiosphere,
at least two miles; and that, in character and location, they
conformed to the regulations of the barque's nationality, which
are the same as those of the British Bpard of Trade (or the
International Rules before referred to); that the mast-head
light of the steamer was sighted right ahead, distant about a
mile; that the barque was kept steady on her course until the
steamer was almost upon her and apparently about to run her
down; thtt then the order was given to put the helm haid
a-port; that in a few seconds the steamer's starboard light came
-in view, and ,in another instant she struck the barque in her
port side, cutting her in two obliquely. In all this we see
nothing that the people in charge of the barque did which it
was not their duty to do by the International Rules. It was
their duty'to keep her steady on her eourse, and it was the
duty of the steamer to see the barque and to avoid a collision.
On the other side it appears that the steamer, which was a
large and powerful one, 416 feet long and 38 feet beam, was
coming towards the barque, end on, at about eleven knots an
hour; that she had a lookout on the lee side of her bridge
(which was over 150 feet from her bow), where the officer in
charge of the deck also was; but had no other lookout on duty,
the rest. of the watch, except the man at the cbmpass, and one
at the wheel, were underneath the turtle-back, or top-gallant
forecastle. No lookout was on the turtle-back, although it,
would have been entirely safe to station one there. The
omission to do so was for the alleged reason that the vessel was
plunging into a head-sea, and taking so much water over her
bows that he would haVe been of no use there. The barque
was not seen by those in charge of the steamer until just at
the instant of the collision; yet objects could be seen at a distance of from 500 yards to a mile, and the port light of the
bafque was seen by a steerage passenger on the steamer, looking out of his room just under the bridge, aid was reported to
his room mates long enough before the collision to enable the
second steerage steward, who heard the report, to go up the

OCTOBER TERM,

1884.

Opinion of the Court.

companion-ladder, cross the deck, and reach the steamer's
rail.
We think that these facts furnished a sufficient ground for the
conclusions at which the court arrived, as before rehearsed; the
substance of which was that the collision occurred by the negligence of those having charge of the Belgenland, in not seeing
the barque, and in not taking the proper precautions due to
such a night and such a sea, by reducing speed and keeping a
sufficient lookout.
It is argued that there is no express finding of negligence, or
fault, as matter of fact, but only as an inference from the facts
found. But we think that the facts found furnish such conclusive proof of negligence that it may be regarded as properly
found amongst the conclusions of law as a legal inference from
those facts. United States v. Pugh, 99 U. S. 265.
The counsel of the appellants suppose that the court below
found the Belgenland in fault on the mere presumption arising from the fact of collision, and the primary duty of the
steamship to avoid it. But this is not a just view of the
decision. There was much more in the facts of the case than
the existence of such a presumption, as the foregoing rehearsal
of the facts clearly shows. The ability to see objects at a
distance; the fact that the men in charge of the steamer failed
to see the barque, whilst a passenger did see her from his' room;
the fact that there was but one lookout for such a large steamer;
that other lookouts could have been stationed on the turtleback; the fact that the speed was not slackened, and no precautions taken to get a better view ahead; these facts, in addition to the presumption arising from the steamer's duty,
present a very different case from that supposed by the appellants. The decision of the court must be taken as the collective
result from the whole case. It cannot be judged from mere
isolated expressions in the opinion.
The rule contended for by the appellants, that negligence
and fault must be proved, and not presumed, is undoubtedly a
sound one, and hardly needs cases to support it. But the
Circuit Court evidently did not rest the case on presumption,
but'upon proof, from which it properly deduced negligence on

WALDEN v. K EVALS.
Opinion of the Court.-

:'the part-of the steamship.. At all events, this court, upon
a careful consideration of- the facts 'found, is satisfied -that
there was such negligence; and that it was the cause bf the
catastrpphe.
Tie decree of tMe Circuit Court is aflrmed, with interest to
be added to the amount from the date of the same.

'WALDEN '. K.NEVALS.
APPEAL FROm

HE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNTED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NIEBRASKA.
Submitted April 1, 188I.-Decided April 13, 1885.

'The lands granted by Congress to the State of Kansas for the benent of the
St. Joseph & Defiver City Railroad Company by the act of July 23, 1866,
were pot open to sale or settlement after the line or route of the road was
"defimtely fixed "; which it was when the map*of the route adopted by
the company was filed with the Secretary of the Interior, and accepted by..
him. Van WyveA v. Xnevaks, 106 U. S. 360, affirmed.

This was a bill in equity to compel a conveyance of land.
Plaintiff below derived title through the grant of lands made
by Congress to the State of Kansas, to aid the St. Joseph &
Denver City Railroad Company. Defendant below derived
title through a patent from the United States, granted after the
company had filed its maps with the Secretary of the Interior.
Decree for plaintiff, from which the defendant below appealed.
.Mr. Delenzo A. Walden, appellant, in person.
.Mr.
MR.

:

X. Woolwoorth for appellee.

JusicE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

The questions presented in this case are similar to those considered and decided in VFanl'Fyck v. ZnJevals, 106 U. S. 360."
By the act of Congress of July 23, 1866, 14 Stat. 210, there

