THE IAURA.
Opinion of the Court.

THE LAURA.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued January 30, 1885.-Decided April 13, 1885.

A remission by the Secretary of the Treasury, uuder Rev. Stat. § 5294, of
penalties incurred by a steam-vessel for taking on board an unlawful number of passengers, is effectual to destroy all liability in the suit, where the
rdmission is applied for before a suit in rem, brought for the penalties
against the vessel by an informer, is tried.
The practice of granting remissions of pecuniary penalties and forfeitures, by
officers other than the President,.sanctioned by statute and acquiescence
for nearly a century, as a valid exercise of authority, aid no invasion of
the power of pardon granted" by the Constitution to the President, is too
firmly established to be questioned.

This was a libel filed by lNorman H. Pollock against the'
Steamboat Laura, &c., to recover penalties for the violation bf
Rev. Stat. § 4465 The facts whfch make the case are stated
in the opinion of the court. The libel was dismissed in the
District Court. An appeal was taken to the Circuit Court,
where it was again dismissed. The libellant appealed to this
court.

Mr&.

enry' G. Atwater for appellant.

X'. .Denmio M fahon for claimant and appellee.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAI delivered the opinion of the coirt.'
The statutes regulating the transportation of passengers by
steam vessels on such of-the waters of the United -States as
are common highways of commerce, or are open to general or
• competitive navigation-other than public vessels of this country, vessels of other countries, and canal-boats propelled in
whole or in part by steam-provide that every certificate of
inspection granted to steamers carrying passengers, other than
ferry-boats, shall show the number of passengers of each class
for whom the steamer has accommodation, and whom it can
carry with prudence and safety; that it shall not be lawful to

OCTOBER TERM,

1884.

Opinion of the Court.

take on board'a greater number of passengers'than is stated in
the certificate of inspection; and that "for every violation of
this' provision the master or owner shall be liable, to any person suing for the same, to forfeit the amount of passage money
,and ten dollars for each passenger beyond the number allowed."
Rev. Stat. §g 4399, 4400, 4464, 4465; Act of Feb. 28, 1871, 16
Stat. 440, 454. These penalties are declared to be a lien upon
the offending vessel. § 4469. Another section in the same
Title provides: "If any vessel propelled in whole or in part by
steam be navigated without complying with the terms of this
Title, the owner shall be liable to the United States in a penalty of $500 for each offence, one-half for the use of the informer; for which sum the vessel so navigated shall be liable,
and may be seized and proceeded against by way of libel in
any District Court of the United States having jurisdiction of
the offence." § 4499
The libel in this case was filed by the appellant to enforce a
lien, in his favor, upon a steam vessel of the class to which the
above regulations apply, for penalties amounting to the sum of
$5,661; which, it is claimed, accrued to the appellant, as the
person suing for them by reason of the transportation, on that
vessel, at certain specified times, of a larger number of passengers than its certificate of inspection permitted.
Before the trial in the District Court, the owner of the vessel, a corporation which had intervened, filed an amended answer, setting up in bar of the further prosecution of the suit, a
warranV in due form by the Secretary of the Treasury, remitting to the appellee, "all the right, claim, and demand of the
United States, and of all others whatsoever, to said forfeiture
of passage money and penalties, on payment of costs,-if.any
there be."
The provision of the statute under which this warrant of remission was issued is in these words:
"The Secretary of the Treasury may, upon application
therefor, remit or mitigate any fine or penalty provided for in
laws relating to steam vessels, or discontinue any prosecution
to recover penalties denounced in such laws, excepting the
penalty of imprisonment, or of removal fNom office, upon such

THE LA-URA.
Opinion of the Court.

terms as he, in his discretion, shall think proper; and all
rights granted to informers by such laws shall be held subject to the Secretary's power of remission, except in cases
where the claims of any informer to the share of any
penalty shall have b)een determined by a court of competent
jurisdiction, prior to the application for the remission of the
penalty; ahd the Secretary shall have authority to ascertain
the facts upon all such applications, -in such manner and
under such regulations, as he may deem proper." Rev. Stat.
§ 5294.
The costs having been taxed and paid into court, the libel
was, by order of the court, dismissed. *.Pollock v. Steamboat
Laura, 5 Fed. Rep. 133. Upon appeal to the Circuit Court,
the decree was affirmed, that court concurring with the District
C)irt in holding that the remission by the Secretary of the
T.:easury discharged all liability for the penalties. The Laura,
1 Blatchford, 562.
The warrant of remission, it is contended by the libellant,
is without legal effect, and should have been disregarded, because the statute upon which it rests is in cor~flict with the
clause of the Constitution investing the President with power
"to grant reprieves and pardons for all offences against the
United States, except in cases of impeachment." The argument advanced in support of this position, briefly stated, is:
That the power of the President to grant pardons includes the
power to remit fines, penalties, and forfeitures imposed for the
commission of offences against, or for the violation of theilaws
of, the United States; that such power is in its nature exclusive; and that -its exercise, in whatever form, by any subordinate officer of the government, is an encroachment upon
the constitutional prerogatives of the President.
It is not necessary to question the sounlness of soine of these
propositions. It may be conceded that, except in cases of impeachment and where fines are imposed by a co-ordinate.department of the government for contempt of its authority, the
President, ulider the general, unqualified grant of power to
pardon offences against the United States, may remit fines,
penalties, and forfeitures of every description arising under the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

laws of Congress; and, equally, that his constitutional power in
these, respects cannot be interrupted, abridged, or limited by
any legislative enactment. But is that power exclusive, in the
sense that no other officer can remit forfeitures or penalties incurred for the violation of the laws of the United States? This
question cannot be answered in the affirmative without adjudging that the practice in reference to remissions by the
Secretary of the Treasury and other officers, which has been
observed and acquiesced in for nearly a century, is forbidden
by the Constitution. That practice commenced very shortly
after the adoption of that instrument., and was, perhaps, suggested by legislation in England, which, without interfering
with, abridging, or restricting the power of pardon belonging
to the Crown, invested certain subordinate officers with authority to remit penalties and forfeitures arising from violations
of the revenue and customs laws of that country. Stat. 27
Geo. III., ch. 32; see also Stat. 51 Geo. III., ch. 96, and 54
Geo. III., 171.
By an act passed March 3, 1797, 1 Stat. 506, the Secretary
of the Treasury was authorized to mitigate or remit any fine,
penalty, forfeiture or disability arising from any law providing
for the laying, levying or collecting duties or taxes, or any law
concerning the registering and recording of ships or vessels,
or the enrolling or licensing ships or vessels employed in the
coasting trade or fisheries, or regulating the same, if, in his
opinion, the same was incurred without wilful negligence, or
fraudulent intention by the persdn or persons subject to the
same. He was also authorized to direct a prosecution instituted for the recovery thereof to cease and be discontinued
upon such terms and conditions as he deemed reasonable and
just. This act expired by limitation at a.designated time.
But by an act passed February 11, 1800, it was revived to continue in force without liinitation as to time. 2 Stat. 7, ch. 6.
From the adoption of the Constitution to the present moment,
Congress has asserted its right, by statute, to invest the Secretary of the Treasury and other officers of the-executive branch
of the government with power to remit fines, penalties, and
forfeitures imposed for the violation of the laws the of United

THE LAURA.
Opinion' of the Court.

States.* And in none of the cases in this court or in the Circuit and District Courts of the United States, involving the
operation or effect of such warrants. of remission, was it ever
suggested or intimated that the legislation was an encroachment upon the President's power of pardon-so far, at least, as
it invested the Secretary of the Treasury, or other officers,
-with authority to remit pecuniary penalties and forfeitures.
Indeed, the case of United States v. .orris, 10 Wheat 246i
may be regarded as a.direct adjudication in favor of the validity of that part of the act of 1797,brought forward in'all of
the subsiquent statutes upon the same subject, which confers
upon the Secretary the power to remit fines, ,penalties, and forfeitf~res.

In that case-which involved the right to a share in a forfeiture
declared by statute-the question related to the power of the
Secretary under that act, after final sentence of condemnation
and judgment for the forfeiture accruing under the revenue
laws, to remit the'forfeiture. The court held that the power
could be exercised, under that act, at any time before the money
'was actually paid over to the collector for distribution. It-was
said: "The authority of the Secretary to remit, at any time
before condemnation of the property seized, is not denied on thepart of the plaintiff [the officer claiming the forfeiture] ; and
it cannot be maintained that Congress has hiot the power to
vest in this officer authority to remit aftk" condemnation; and
the only inquiry would seem to be, whether this has been done
by the act referred to." Evidently the court and the eminent
counsel who appeared in that case, accepted it as a proposition*
not open to discussion, that the power of the President to
pardon for offences did not preclude Congress from giving the
Secretary of the Treasury authority to remit penalties and
* Note by the Cout.-1 Stat. 122, oh. 12; lb. 275,'. ch. 35; 2 lb. 454, ch. 8, %
6;lb. 502, ch. 66, § 14; lb. 510, ch. 5, § 12; lb. 701, ch. 49, § 4; 3Tb.92, cli. 1,
§14; lb. 617, ch. 14, § 3; lb. 739, ch. 21, q 35; 9 lb. 593, ch. 21, § 3; 11 Th. 95,
ch. 159, §10; 121b. 257, ch. 3, §8; Ib. 271, ch. 10, §3; 1b. 405, ch. 81, §4;
lb. 737, 739, ch. 76, § 1; 13 Ib. 198, ch. 164, 8; 14 lb. 169, ch. 184, 1 6a; 15
lb. 242, ch. 273, § 8; 16 lb. 179, ch. 185,% 9; 17 1b. 325, ch. 335, § 316; 18 lb.
190, ch. 391, § 18; R. S. §,2858, 3061, *3078, 3115, 3220, 3412 (2d. ed.), 3461

-ud 5292-4.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

forfeitures. Touching the objection now raised as to the con
stitutionality of the legislation in question, it is sufficient te
say, as was said in an early case, that the practice and acquiescence under it, "commencing with the organization of the judicial system, affords an irresistible answer, and has indeed fixed
the construction. It is a contemporary interpretation of the
most forcible nature. This practical exposition is too strong
and obstinate to be shaken or controlled. Of course, the question is at rest, and ought not now to be disturbed." Stuart v.
-Laird,1 Cranch, 299, 308. The same principle was announced
in the recent case of Lithographic Co. v. Sarony, 111 U. S. 53,
57, where a question arose as to the constitutionality of certain
statutory provisions reproduced from some of the earliest stat,utes enacted by Congress. The court said: "The construction placed upon the Constitution by the first act of 1790, and
the act of 1802, by the men who were' contemporary with its
ormation, many of whom were members of the convention
which framed it, is, of itself, entitled to very great weight; and
when it is remembered that the rights thus established have not
been disputed during a period of nearly a century, it is conclusive."' See also Cooley v. Board of Mrardens, 12 How. 299,
315; -3fartinv. Hunter, 1 Wheat. 304; Cohens v. Virginia, 6
Wheat. 264.
It is, however, insisted that if the statute in question is constitutional, it cannot be construed as giving the Secretary of
the Treasury the power to remit a penalty after a suit .fo its
recovery has been -instituted by a private person. In support
of this position we are referred to numerous authorities, which,
it is-claimed, hold that the test of what may be done under the
power of pardon granted by our Constitution is, what the King
of England could do, by virtue of his pardoning power, at the
time of the separation from that country; and that he could not
grant a pardon to the injury of a subject, and, therefofr, could not
remit a penalty after suit by a private person to.recover it. It
is quite true, as declared in United States v. Wilson, 7 Pet. 150,
160, that, since the power to pardon "had been exercised from
time immemorial by the executive of that nation whose language is our language, and to whose judicial institutions ours

EX PARTE WILSON.
Syllabus.

have a close resemblance, *e adopt their principles respectig
the operation and effect of a pardon." But that principle has.
no possible application to the present case; for, the statute under
which the libbllant proceeds, and without which he would have
no standing in court, declares, in terms, that "all rights granted
to informers "-and the libellant is plainly of the class intended
to be described-shall be held "subject to the Secretary's
power of remission, except in cases where the claims of any
informer to the share -of .any penalty shall have been determined by a court of 'competent jurisdiction prior to the application -for the remission of the penalty.5' If the libellant
had, by virtue of his suit, an inchoate interest in such penalties,
that interest was acquired subject to the power of the Secretary
to destroy it by a remission applied for before the right is ascertained and established by the judgment of the proper court.
The decree below.is
Afflnmed.

EX PARTE WILSON.
OI1IGINAL.
Submitted December 15, 1884.-Decided March 30, 1885.

This court cannot discharge on habeas corpus a person imprisoned under the
senteiice of a Circuit or District Court in a criminal case, unless the sentence exceeds the jurisdiction of that court, or there is no authority to hold
the prisoner under the sentence.
The provision of Rev. Stat. § 1022, authorizing, certain offences to be prosecuted either by indictment or by information, doei not preclude the prosecution by information of such other offences as.may be so prosecuted consistently with the Constitution and laws of the United Sthtes.
In the record of a general conviction and sentence upon two counts, one of
which 4s good, a misrecital of the verdict as upon the other count only, in'
stating the inquiry whether the convict had aught to say why sentence
should not be pronoulced against him, i9 no ground for-discharging him on
habeas corpus.
In the record of a judgment of a District Court, sentencing a person convicted
in one State to imprisonment in a prison in another State, the omission to
state that there was no suitable prison in the State in which he was convicted, and that the Attorney-General had designated the prison in the
vor. cxi -27

