AURRECOECHEA v. BAXGS.
Syllabus.

said.: "If at the close of the former partnership be (the retiring
partner) was bona ftde entitled, a11 the payments were just and
legal: if he was not bona fide entitled to any demand, on account of -the former partnership, as against the two about to
form a new partnership, but that, to the knowledge and conviction of all three, was mere color, and not a real but a nominal
transaction, all the Payments wbre made not only without consideration, but upon a bad consideration, and such as a court of
equity, and, I think, a court of law equally ought to dondemn."
This i nothing more than declaring that a suit will lie by the
assignee of a bankrupt concern to compel a retired partner
to account for moneys paid to hhnby the fiarn upon a fraudulent
claim.
In the case at bar there was no fraudulent claim advanced.
The amount to be paid Brinley was for the capital put by him
into the firm of Furness, Brinley &.Co., all the partners, except perhaps one of them, supposing at the time of his retirement that the firm was not only solvent, but in possession,
of a large surplus; and the plaintiff is neither the new company nor its assignee, but the bank, Which lent money to that
company upon its shpposed solvency, and now seeks to charge
the parties to whom the company paid it in discharge of its
obligations. Equity does not folow money thus lent into the
hands of persons tb whom it has been paid in dis.charge of obligations to them and with whom the lender had no relations.
Decree affirmed.

AURREOOEOHEA v. BANGS.
I

ERROR TO THE SUPRE3,tE COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted January 5, 1885.-Decided April 13,1885.

Lands covered by a claim under Mexican or Spanish grants, but not found
within the limits of the final survey of the grant when made, are within the
excepting clause of the act of July 28, 1866,14 Stat. 218, and are restored to
the public domain by the survey.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.
A pre-emptor of land thus restored to the public domain, who takes the necessary steps in the land offic to assert and perfect his title as such, before a
claimant under a selection of the same lands by the State of California
makes his claim, and who obtains a patent therefor, has a- legal title
thereto, which is not subject to be dspossessed by any equities in the latter
claimant. Hziff v. Doyle, 93 U. S. 558, distinguished.

This suit in the nature of a bill in equity was commenced in a
State court of California by plaintiff in'error to charge defendant
in error, who held the legal title to the lands in dispute, as
trustee for plaintiff in.error. The facts which make the case
are stated in the opinion of the court. The detondant demurred
to the bill and- the demurrer was' sustained. This judgment
being affirmed by the Supreme Cburt of the State, the plaintiff
below brought the case heye by writ of error.
Mr.Edward JP r ingle for-plaintiff in error.
.r. A. "Ckesterfor defendant in error.
delivered the opinion, of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of California.
The case relates to the title'to lands in that State and was
decided on a demurrer, which was sustained, to a petition of
plaintiff in error. This petition was in the nature of a bill in
chancery seeking to hold the defendant, who had the legal title
to the land, by a patent from the United States, to be a trustee
for the plaintiff, on the ground that in a contest between the
two before the Land Department the officer of that department had, by the decision in favor of the defendant, deprived
plaintiff of his superior right by a misconstruction of the law.
The land in controversy was within the exterior limits of a
claim under a Mexican grant. The validity of this grant was
established by proceedings under the act of Congress on that
subject. But when the survey was made and finally confirmed
which ascertained the locality of this grant, it was found that
the land in suit was not within it. This fact was established on
June 6, 1871, by the confirmation of the final survey of that
grant.
MR.

JUSTICE MILLER

AURRECOECHEA v. BANGS..

3S3

Opinion of the Court.
On July 1, 1871, the map of the congressional survey of the
township, which included the 'land and which was completed
by subdivision -into sections and quarter-sections, was filed in
the local land office of the district of San-Francisco.
Bangs, the defendant,-who had been residing "on the land
for some time, made and filed with the register and receiver
.his declaratory statement, asserting an intention to pre-empt.
the land June-26, 1871. -Under this claim the defendant, having complied With the requirements of law, received the patent
of which-plaintiff claims the benefit.
Plaintiff's superior equity, as he sets. it out in his petition,
arises under the act of Congress of March 3, 1853, granting to
the State of California every sixteenth and thirty-sixth section
of the public lands for school purposes. ' 10 Stat. 244. As
none of the public lands in California had been -surveyed, it
could not then be known where theseochool sections would-be
locatedi and, in view of the fact that many settlements would
be made on those -sections before they could be ascertained by
survey, the seventh section of the act, while validating the
claims of such settlers, authorized the State to select other
lands in lieu of them, and in lieu of such as were reserved for
public use or taken for private claims. The history of the attempt of the State to make these surveys for herself, and to exercise the right of selection under
this seventh section of the act of 1853, is given in the opinion
of this court in the case of Haf v. Doyle, 93 U. S. 558, and
reference is here mnade to that history for an understanding of
the present case. Indeed the land in that case, as in this, was
a part of the Mexican claim Las Pocitas, and the principles announced in that case are decisive of this.
'It. appears from the history there detailed that the Land
Department of the United States, refusing torecognize the surveys
made by State authority, and 'the selection made by the State.
and sold'and certified to its purchasers, Congress, on July 23,
1866, 11 Stat. 218, .passed an act for the relief of such persons
and to remedy the evils of this unauthorized action on the part
of the State of California ag far-as possible.
The first section of this act is as follows: "That in all cases

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

where the State of California has heretofore made selections of
any portion of the public domain in part satisfaction of any
grant to the State by any act of Congress, and has disposed of
the same to purchasers in good faith under her laws, the lands
so selected shall be and hereby are confirmed to said State."
A proviso.making several exceptions to this confirmation excludes from it among others "any land held or claimed under
any valid Mexican or Spanish grant." The second section
makes it the duty of the authorities of the State, when the selections named in section one have been made upon lend which
has been surveyed by the authorities of the United States, to
notify the register of the land office of such selection, and if,
upon inquiry by the local officers, such selection is found to be
in accordance with section one, the Commissioner of the General
Land Office shall certify the land to the State in the usual
manner. This second section of the statute had reference to
cases where the selections had been made of land which had
been surveyed at the date of the passage of the act.
The third section made provision for selections made of
lands which had not been surveyed by the United States at the
date of the statute, which is the case before us. This section
says that the selection so made shall have, when the lands are
afterward surveyed, the same force and effect as the pre-emption rights of a settler on the unsurveved public lands, and the
claimant shall be allowed the same time after the surveys have
been made to prove up his purchase as is allowed under the
pre-emption laws.
The bill alleges that in the year 1863, the State, by its agent,
selected this land and sold to a purchaser for a valuable consideration, from whom plaintiff purchased it. It then alleges
that, some time in the year 1866, this selection was made
known to the register and receiver of the land office, and a note
of it made on their books. Complainant further says, that
within three months after the completion of the surveys by the
United States, he appeared before these officers and asserted
his claim under that selection, and proved it upon the contest
with Bangs before the Department.
There- would seem to be no objection to the case made by

AURRECOECHEA v. BANGS,

385

Opinion of the Court..

plaintiff, but for th'e fact that the land in controvery was-at
the time of this selection by.the State part of a claim under a
Mexican grant. The grant itself was cbnfirmed as valid by
judicial proceeding, though -uponi final survey, this piece of
land did not fall within: it. But the exclusion of the proviso
of the first section .of the act of 1866 is of land held or claimed
under a valid Mexican grant. "This land was claimied under a
Mexican grant, which provedclaimed.
to be valid, though, as located,
the land
it did not include-all
In the 'case of Hu#vf v..Doyle, already cited, we held that
land embraced in this Mexican claim', though not included in
the final survey, was within the excepting clause of the proviso
of the act of 1866.
When this selection was made by the State in 1866,the land
was not subject to such selection. The act of* making such a
selection was a nullity.' It conferred no right on the State or
its vendee, and When the United States made its remedial and
confirmatory statute it refused to confirm selections within the
bounds of Mexican claims and did not confirm this.
But in the case of 11rfu v. Doyle we held that, after the
grant was surveyed and the surplus thus restored to the public
'domain and the congressional survey completed, the party
might then present his claim under the selection, and if no
superior right existed he would be entitled to the land. We
said, referring to this legislation: "In all this we see the purpose of Congress-to refer the exercise of the right of the State
to select indemnitk for school lands to the condition of the
lands for Which indemnity is claimed, as'well as those out of
which it is sought at the time the official surveys are made and
filed in the proper office, or as soon thereafter as the right is
asserted."
In that case the claimant under the State made and proved
up his claim as soon as the survey was made, and the land was
accordingly certified to the State. His opponent, who had also
made his, declaration as pre-emptor while the land was still
claimed under the Mexican grant, which claim was for that
reason also void, and, before the public survey or the survey of
that grant was made, renewed his claim after that of plaintiff,
VOL.

Cxrv-25

OCTOBER TERMI, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

and it'was rejected. To both parties the condition of the land
as liable to either claim at the time the claim was Tigfully
asserted governed the case.
In the case before us, the pre-emptor was the first, after the
land ceased to be a part of the Mexican claim and was restored
to the public domain, to make application to the land office
and assert his right to appropriate it as public land. The officers of the department recognized his claim, as we think they
were bound to do, for the land had only a few days before
this become public land, and thus liable to pre-emption, or to
the valid selection of the State. The invalid selection, made at
a time when the land was not subject to selection, was not
made good by the act of 1866 which expressly excluded it, and
while we held that, after the land became public land and
liable to selection the former selection might be m4de good,
its validity could only relate to the time of its assertion in the
land office after it became so liable.
But, if before this latter proceeding was had, or notice to
the land office of an intention to rely on the old selection was
given, other rights had intervened, the State right of selection
could not be made to the prejudice of those rights.
On this principle, we think all the benefit which could possibly be derived from the confirmatory act of 1866-in regard to
such cases as this is had, while the just rights of others are preserved. The statute, itl
express language, gives the holder of
the invalid State selection the samie right as a pre-emption
settler on unsurveyed lands, and no more. :Here Bangs had
asserfed his right as soon as the land was released from:the
Me ican claim, and a few days before the congressional survey
became fixed. The least that can be said of Bangs' claim is,
that it was of equal force when the maps of these surveys were
filed, and, by his superior'diligence in a lawful manner, he obtained the patent, and plaintiff has no s3eriarequity which
should take it from him.
As to the allegation in the bill that Bangs made a forcible
intrusion on the possession of complainant in September, 18,70,
before the land became public land, that was a question to be
considered by land officers in the contest between the parties,

AMY v. SHELBY COUNTY .TAXING DISTRICT. 3S7'
Syllabus.

and is not a fraud or mistake for which the patent can be held
to enure to plaintiff's benefit. Nor does the plaintiff rely on it
as sufficient. His claim to the benefit of defendant's title rests
upon the selection made under State authority. That is the
question of federal law which this court must decide, and as
we have seen, that was well decided against him by the State
court.
Its decree is accordingly

Affirmed.
Aurreeoechea v. Sinclair & Others. This case is submitted on
the same facts and principles and the same briefs as the foregoing
ease, and the same judgment necessarily follows. The judgment
of the Supreme Court of Californi* is accordingly Affirmed. M2lr.
Mr. JXichael
Pringle and Mr. ff.F. Crane for plaintiff in error.
Hfullany for defendant ii error.
Aurrecoechea v. *Bangs & Others; Aurrecoechea v., Gerk &
Others; Aurrecoechea v. Clark & Others; Aurrecoechea v.
French & Others. In accordance with stipulations by the parties
on file in this court, that the above-mentioned cases should abide
the result of the judgment in the case of the same plaintiff against
Bangs, the judgments in the cases are Affirmed

SMY & Another v. SHELBY COUNTY TAXING
DISTRICT & Others.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE

OF TE I ESSEE.

Submitted January 8, 1885.-Decided April 13, 1885.

When a person owing taxes to a municipal corporation becomes the owner of
obligations of the municipality which are by law receivaple in payment of
its taxes, the extinguishment of the tax and the debt is clearly within the
doctrine of set-off of .mutual obligations.
A State law authorizing a debtor of a municipality to procure the obligations of
the municipality and use them as a set-off for his own debt, is not liable to
constitutional objection.as divesting creditors of the municipality of vested
rights, or as impairing the obligation of contracts.

