THE "ADRIATIC."

[Sup. Ct.

ute annulling the contract, and she carried the mails under that
contract on the voyage out and the return voyage. We are of
opinion that the repeal of the statute and the annulment of the
contract were not designed to operate on that voyage, and that
in that respect the judgment of the Court of Claims was right.
Its judgment in regard to the other trips will be reversed,
and the case remanded to it with instructions to render a judgment in conformity to this opinion; and it is

Sgo or'der'ed.

THE 1 ADRIATIC."
The court promulgates a rule declaring what matters the record shall contain
in cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, where the reviewing power
of the court is limited to questions of law.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Southern District of New York.
Motion to strike from the transcript the depositions and oral
testimony taken in the progress of the cause in the several
courts below.
Mr. E. P. Wheeler in support of the motion.
Mr. William Allen Butler, contra.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
Sect. 698 of the Revised Statutes provides that, upon the
appeal of any cause of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, a
transcript of the record shall be transmitted to this court "and
copies of the proofs and of such entries and papers on file
as may be necessary on the hearing of the appeal." While
sect. 1 of the act of Feb. 16, 1875, c. 77 (18 Stat., pt. 3, 315),
limits the review by this court of the judgments and decrees
on the instance side of courts of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction to the questions of law arising on the record, and to
such rulings of the court below excepted to at the time, as may
be presented by a bill of exceptions, and requires the court

Ot. 1880.]

THE "ADRIATIC."

below to find the facts, no change has been made in the law
prescribing what should be included in the transcript sent here
on an appeal. For that reason we will not order the testimony
which has been sent up in this case to be stricken out. As
under our repeated decisions, the facts as found are conclusive
on us, it is clear the testimony may not be "necessary on the
hearing of the appeal."
The Abbotsford, 98 U. S. 440; The
Benefactor, 102 id. 214. For this reason it may with propriety
by consent of counsel be omitted from the printed record. We
will not, however, make any order in that behalf; but if it shall
be unnecessarily printed against the wishes of either of the
parties, we will, on the final determination of the case, give
such directions in respect to costs as may seem proper.
The section of the Revised Statutes referred to, however,
requires only copies of such of the proofs to be sent up "as
may be necessary on the hearing of the appeal." This gives
us power to prescribe by rule what shall be done in cases where
the act of 1875 applies. For the guidance hereafter of parties
appealing, and the officers of the courts below in such a case,
we, therefore, now promulgate the following as an additional
paragraph, numbered 6, to rule 8: "6. The record in causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction,
where under the requirements of law the facts have been found in
the court below, and our power to review is limited to the determination of questions of law arising on the record, shall be confined
to the pleadings, the findings of fact and conclusions of law thereon,
the bills of exceptions, the final judgment or decree, and such inter.
locutory orders and decrees as may be necessary to a proper review
of the case."

