Oct. 1880.)

THE " BENEACTOR."

Tm

"Bx

E

l

wAoToB

STEAmSHIP ComrAw~y v. MoUxT.
L A ship-owner who, on the trial of the issue as to the cause of collision, con,
tests all liability whatever, is not thereby precluded from claiming the
benefit of the limitation of liability provided by sect. 4283 of the Revised
Statutes.
2. After such trial, a decree declaring his ship to be in fault, and fixing the
damages which the respective libellants sustained, is resjudicata,and, until
reversed, must stand as the basis for determining their pro ratashare of the
fund substituted by stipulation for the ship and freight. On filing his
petition for limited liability, the libelants, until final action shall be had
thereon, should be restrained from enforcing the decree.
J. Semble, that the stipulation on filing that petition should be for the value of
the ship after the collision, with the addition thereto of the freight then
pending, it not appearing that her value was subsequently diminished.
4. Proceedings for a limitation of liability, if not instituted until after a party
has obtained satisfaction of his demand, are ineffectual as to him. A return of the money should not be compelled, nor, in general, should relief be
granted, except upon condition of compensating the party for any costs
and expenses to which he may have been subjected by reason of the delay
of the ship-owner in claiming the benefit of the statute.
6. The court, in reversing the decree of the Circuit Court, directs that court to
proceed upon the petition for limited liability, and promulgates a rule that
such a petition shall be hereafter filed in the Circuit Court when the case is
there pending.

APPEALs from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Cornelius Van Santvoord for the appellant.
Mr. Franklin A. Wilcox and Mr. Bobert 1). Benedict, contra.

MR. JusTIcE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

On the 26th of February, 1875, a collision occurred off the
coast of New Jersey, in the vicinity of Squam Beach, between
the schooner "Susan Wright" and the steamship "Benefactor," which resulted in the sinking of the former with a
total loss of vessel and cargo. Soon afterwards a libel was filed
against the steamer in the District Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of New York, at the suit of the owners
of the schooner for the loss of their vessel; and a separate

THE

"B ENEACTOB.

Lsup- oCL

libel at the suit of the crew for the loss of their personal
effects; and pending the proceedings on these libels, a petition
of intervention was filed by the owners of the schooner's cargo
to recover the value of the same. The steamer being attached,
was duly appraised and her value fixed at $40,000, and the appellants, the New York and Wilmington Steamship Company,
having appeared as claimants and owners thereof, an order was
made granting them leave to give a stipulation, with sufficient
sureties, in said appraised value of the steamer, and directing
that said stipulation should be for the benefit of the libellants
in both of said suits (in case they should establish the liability
of the steamship), and of all persons and parties who might,
by due proceedings in the court, show themselves entitled to
liens upon her by reason of said collision; and that upon giving such stipulation the steamer should be discharged from
all liability. A stipulation was filed by the claimants in
pursuance of this order, and the steamer was thereupon discharged.
The claimants then filed answers to each of the libels, denying that the steamer was in fault, and denying all liability by
reason of the collision. Upon the issue thus formed proofs
were taken by the parties. On the twenty-first day of April,
1876, the District Court adjudged the steamer to have been iin
fault, and the damages of the libellants and intervenors were
assessed, amounting in the aggregate to $61,810.49. The suits
were then consolidated, and on the twenty-first day of October,
1876, a decree was rendered in favor of the libellants and
intervenors for the several amounts awarded to them respectively, and directing the claimants and their sureties to pay
into the registry of the court the amount of their stipulation;
namely, $500 for costs, and $40,000 and the interest thereon
for the value of the steamer. The decree further directed that
unless an appeal should be taken within the time limited by
law, the clerk should distribute the proceeds of said stipulation among the libellants and co-libellants in proportion to
their several recoveries. From this decree an appeal was taken
to the Circuit Court.
It thus appearing that the damages of those interested in thi
sciooner and her cargo exceeded the value of the steamer, and

Oct. 1880.]

THE "

BENEFACTOR."

she being condemned by the court of first instance as being
in fault for the collision, the claimants, on the fifteenth day
of February, 1877, filed a petition in the said District Court
under the fifty-fourth Rule in Admiralty, claiming the benefit of limitation of liability provided for in sect. 4283 of the
Revised Statutes.
In this petition *the claimants allege, as required by the act,
that the collision happened and the loss and damage occurred
without their privity or knowledge. They then state the fact
of the filing of the libels before mentioned, and the proceedings
which took place thereon ; and restate the facts and circumstances on which they relied in their answers to the libels for
exemption from all liability. They then state that they desire
to contest their liability and that of the steamship for the damage occasioned by the collision, and also to claim the benefit of
limitation of liability provided for by sect. 4283 of the Revised
Statutes. They further state that the, freight pending at the
time of the collision was 81,220.32; and they tender themselves
ready and willing and offer to give a stipulation with sureties
in the value of the steamship and freight for the payment
thereof into court whenever it should be so ordered. They
also offer to admit in evidence, at the proper time, the depositions and proofs taken in the libel suits. Then, having stated the
fact that the damages were assessed in said suits to an amount
greatly exceeding the value of the steamship and freight pending' they pray for an order permitting them to give the stipulation proffered; and that, if it shall be ultimately adjudged
that the steamship is liable, a monition may issue against all
persons claiming any damage from the collision, citing them to
appear before the court and make proof of their claims before
a commissioner to be designated for that purpose; and for a
final decree that the amount of the stipulation (after payment
of costs and expenses) be divided pro rata among the claimants,
and that upon payment thereof the steamship and the petitioners be for ever discharged from further liability; and that
an order be made to restrain the libellants in the other suits
from further prosecuting the same, and that the court proceed
to hear and determine the liability of the petitioners upon the
testimony taken on the trial of those suits; and that they may
VOL. XII1.

16

THE " BENEFACTOR."

[Sup. (it.

have the benefit of appeal from any decree to be made, without
giving further or other security than that required by the said
act limiting their liability; and that the testimony taken as
aforesaid be used on said appeal as though originally taken in
this proceeding; "and that they may have and receive such
other and further order in the premises as in equity they may
be entitled to receive."
A copy of this petition, with notice of an application foi.
an order restraining the libellants in the first suits from the
further prosecution thereof, being served upon said libellants,
they filed three exceptions to the petition ; the first of which
was overruled. The second and third were as follows: "Second, For that the said two suits of William H. Mount
and others, and William Hirst and others, against the said
steamship ' Benefactor,' having been tried upon the merits,
and submitted and determined, and the final decree, a copy
whereof is annexed to the said petition, having been entered in
the suit formed by the consolidation of such two suits, before the
filing of the petition herein; and no other suit or proceeding,
for any loss, damage, destruction, or injury occasioned by said
collision, having been commenced, and it not being alleged or
claimed that any other persons or parties than the libellants in
said two suits (being the libellants in said consolidated suit)
have any claims for loss, damage, destruction, or injury occasioned by said collision, but the contrary thereof appearing
upon the face of said petition, the petitioner is not entitled to
the relief sought in and by its said petition.
" Third, For that the facts stated in said petition show
that the relief sought thereby cannot now be granted by this
court."
The district judge not only denied the motion for a restraining order, but, upon the exceptions taken, dismissed the
petition; and, on appeal to the Circuit Court, this decree was
affirmed. The ground of dismissal relied on by the district
judge (which was adopted by the Circuit Court) was that the
petition came too late, inasmuch as it was not filed until after a
trial of the cause of collision upon its merits and a final decree
thereon. The judge referred to the fifty-sixth admiralty rule,
which declares that in proceedings to obtain a decree for a

Oct. 1880.]

THE "BENEFACTOR."

limited liability, the owners may contest all liability on their
part or that of their vessel, as well as claim a limitation of liability under the statute; provided, that in their libel or petitin they shall state the facts and circumstances by reason of
which exemption from liability is claimed. He supposes that
this right to contest the case on the merits at the same time
and in the same proceedings that a limited liability is claimed,
implies that such proceedings must be instituted before the
eae has been tried on its merits; because a second trial of the
same matter, after it has once been adjudicated, will not be
deened to have been contemplated by the rule. In supposing
tliat a second trial of the merits, between the same parties, was
nt. contemplated by the rule, the judge was correct. But it
was certainly not the intention of the admiralty rules to preclude a party from claiming the benefit of a limited liability
after a trial of the cause of collision. The fifty-sixth rule was
merely intended to relieve ship-owners from the English rule
of practice, which requires them, when they seek the benefit
of the law of limited liability, to confess the ship to have been
in fault in the collision. This was deemed to be a very
onerous requirement; for in many, if not in most cases, it is
extremely doubtful which vessel, if either, was in fault; and
to require the owners of either to confess fault before allowing
them to claim the benefit of the law, would go far to deprive
them of its benefit altogether. Hence this court, in preparing
the rules of procedure for a limitation of liability, deemed it
priper to allow a party seeking such limitation to contest any
liability whatever. But this rule of procedure was not intended to abrogate, and indeed could not abrogate, the rule
of law, that res judicata, or a matter once regularly decided
between parties in a competent tribunal, cannot be again
opened by either of them except in an appellate proceeding.
Of course, therefore, the rule of procedure allowing a contestation of all liability is subordinate to this rule of law, and cannot apply where the question of general liability has already
been adjudicated. Nor, in such case, can the proceedings for
a limitation of liability prevent the due course of appeal in the
primary cause of collision; though, by the exercise of the
court's authority, they may prevent the parties from attempt-

THE

-BENEFACTOR."

[Sup. Ct

ing, by execution, or other process, to collect any moneys
recovered by them beyond the amount awarded in the said proceedings. The amount recovered, whether before the linitation proceedings are commenced, or afterwards, and whether
in the court of first instance, or an appellate court, will stand
as the recoverer's basis for pro rata division when the condemned fund is distributed. In all other respects the proceedilgs for obtaining a limitation of liability may proceed in
ordinary course. If suit against the vessel or the owners has
been commenced and evidence has been taken, though no trial
had, it will be in the discretion of the court to require that
such evidence shall be received and used in the limitation proceedings. The flexibility of admiralty proceedings will enable
the court, in most cases, so to shape their course as to attain
justice between the parties.
But since the statute is imperative, that where a loss occurs
in a vessel by embezzlement or by collision or other thing.
without the privity or knowledge of the owner, his liability
"shall in no case exceed the amount or value of his interest in
the vessel and her freight then pending," it would be a questionable exercise, by this court, of its power to regulate the
proceedings, if, by such regulation, it should prevent a party
from having the benefit of the law unless he took initiatory
steps for that purpose before it appeared that he was liable at
all. Such was not the intention of the rules adopted in 1872.
Admiralty Rules, 54-57. They were intended to facilitate
the proceedings of the owners of vessels for claiming the limitation of liability secured by the statute without regard to the
time when such proceedings might be commenced, or whether
before or after the general liability should be fixed. To require such proceedings to be commenced before a trial of the
cause of collision would in many cases work injustice. In
addition to the reasons already adverted to, it may be added
that the owners of the vessel found in fault may often not know
the amount of damage and loss sustained by the other vessel
and her cargo. It may greatly exceed their expectations, and,
contrary to what was originally known or supposed, may turn
out to be much greater than the value of their own vessel and
the freight pending thereon.

Oct. 1880.]

TaE " BENEFACTOR."

The institution of proceedings for a limitation of liability
must, however, be subject to some limitations growing out of
the nature of the case. They must be regarded as ineffectual
as to any specific party if not undertaken until after such party
has obtained satisfaction of his demand. The doctrine of
laches, as applied in admiralty courts, would be properly applicable to such a case. The court would justly refuse its aid in
compelling a return of money received. But the omission to
take the benefit of the law in reference to a particular party
ought not to preclude the owners of a ship from claiming its
benefit as against other parties suffering loss by the same collision. There may be many persons who have sustained but
trifling losses which the owners may be perfectly willing to
pay; whilst, at the same time, they may have just ground for
resisting the claims of others. In such cases, a concession to
the demands, or a failure to resist the claims, of one party,
ought not to conclude them as against the demands of other
parties.
Precisely when the owners of a ship in fault ought to be regarded as precluded from instituting proceedings for a limitation of liability might be difficult to state in a categorical
mjianner. Perhaps they can never be precluded so long as any
damage or loss remains unpaid. But in a particular case relief
should not be granted ex2ept upon condition of compensating
the other party for any costs and expenses he may have incurred by reason of the delay in claiming the benefit of the
law.
But it is unnecessa'y to pursue the subject further. Each
ease as it arises will suggest the proper course to be pursued
therein.
The petition for relief in the present ease was justly liable
to exception so far as it sought to retry the question of fault
Rnd general liability as between the petitioners and the parties
in the libel suits. That question was determined by the decree
made upon the libels which had been filed; which decree could
only be reviewed on appeal. But so far as the petition sought
a limitation of the owners' liability to the value of the ship
and freight, it was free from objection and ought to have been
sustained; and the libellants and intervenors ought to have

THE "B ENEFACTOR."

[Sup. Ot.

been restrained, by order of the court, from collecting or attempting to collect or enforce their respective decrees, whether
obtained in that court or in the court of appeal, in any other
manner than by the pro rata distribution of the fund standing
by stipulation in place of the ship and freight.
A question has been raised by the counsel for the appellees,
whether the appraisement of the value of the steamship, made
at the time she was libelled, is sufficient for the purposes of the
proceeding to obtain limitation of liability. The court below
having dismissed the petition, did not pass upon this question;
and, therefore, it is not essential that we should express an
opinion in reference to it at this time. But since the petitioners specifically pray that the court will order and direct that
they be permitted to give a stipulation in the sum of $41,220.32,
which is precisely the amount of the former stipulation in the
libel suits, with the addition of the freight pending, it may be
advisable that we should indicate our views on the subject.
The counsel for the appellees is mistaken in supposing that
the value of the offending vessel at the time of the collision
furnishes the only criterion of the amount for which her owners are liable. In Norwich Company v. Wright (13 Wall. 104)
we held that the owners of the offending vessel could, under
the statute, discharge themselves from personal liability by surrendering the ship and freight. This would imply that the
value of the ship at the time of surrender (with the addition
of the pending freight), if the surrender is made in a reasonable time, would furnish a proper criterion of the amount of liability. In the case cited it was also said (p. 124) that, "if the
vessel were libelled and either sold or appraised, and her value
deposited in court, this sum, together with the amount of
freight (when proper to be added), would constitute the res
or fund for distribution." In England, the value of the vessel
immediately before the collision was regarded as the true criterion of liability. But the English law is different from ours.
It makes the owners liable to the extent of the value of the
ship at the time of the injury, even though the ship itself be
lost or destroyed at the same time; whereas our law, following
the admiralty rule, limits the liability to the value of the ship
%nd freight after the injury has occu'red; so that if the ship

Oct. 1880.]

1
THE "BENEFACT'R."

is destroyed the liability is gone; and, whether damaged or not
damaged, the owners may surrender her in discharge of their
liability.
What may be the rule if, after the collision has occurred, the
offending vessel should meet with other disasters greatly impairing her value, is a question which may require further consideration when the case arises. Nothing of the kind is alleged
in the present case.
It seems to us, therefore, that the District Court, unless it
has some cause to believe that the former valuation was unfairly made, may adopt that valuation in the proceedings for a
limitation of liability.
The decree of the Circuit Court will be reversed, and the
record remanded with directions to enter a decree reversing the
decree of the District Court, and giving directions for further
proceeding in accordance with this opinion; and it is
So ordered.
Motions having been made to modify the judgment and mandate, Mr. JUSTICE BRADLEY at a subsequent day of the term
delivered the opinion of the court.
Since deciding these cases and issuing mandates therein,
both parties have applied for additional directions with regard
to further proceedings in the court below. The respondents
ask that the judgment and mandate in the second case be
amended so as to direct that further proceedings for securing a
limited liability of the appellants shall be bad in the Circuit
Court instead of the District Court. It is undoubtedly the general rule that an appeal in admiralty, like all appeals derived
from the practice of the civil law, carries the whole cause to the
appellate court, in which it is to be tried anew upon the same
and such additional proofs as the parties may propound. Whilst
this is the general rule, there is also no doubt that the legislature may authorize the appellate court, after hearing the cause,
and determining the questions raised therein, to remand it to
the court a quo for further proceedings. The late practice under the bankrupt law exhibited an instance of this mode of proceeding. The entire history of appeals in admiralty as well as
in equity, in this court, is another instance of the same practice.

THE "BENEFACTOR."

[Sup. ot.

But on appeals in admiralty from the District to the Circuit
Court, the latter has always retained the cause for trial and
final disposition without remanding to the District Court. But
in the late revision of the statutes of the United States it is
declared as follows: "cA circuit court may affirm, modify, or
reverse any judgment, decree, or order of a district court
brought before it for review, or may direct such judgment,
decree, or order to be rendered, or such further proceedings to
be had by the District Court, as the justice of the case may
require." Rev. Stat., sect. 636. The question whether the
cause should be retained by the Circuit Court or remanded to
the District Court was not raised on the argument, and in
entering judgment we directed the Circuit Court to reverse
the decree of the District Court and give directions for further
proceedings, in conformity with our opinion. The respondents
now suggest that this direction could not properly be made,
because, as they contend, that section does not extend to admiralty proceedings. In this, however, we think that they
are mistaken. It follows several other sections which give
the right of appeal and writ of error respectively in admiralty
and other cases from the District to the Circuit Court, and
makes no distinction between them in conferring upon the
latter the power to affirm, modify, or reverse, together with
power to give directions to the District Court for further proceedings. It is a re-enactment of a clause in the second section of the act of June 1, 1872, c. 255, entitled "An Act to
further the administration of justice" (17 Stat. 196); and in
that act its application seems to be general to all appeals from
the District to the Circuit Court.
But whilst this seems to be the law,- namely, that the Circuit Court, after hearing a cause on appeal, has power to remand
with directions, - it may not be advisable to resort to it in ordinary cases where the Circuit Court can as well dispose of the
whole case. As we had already established rules for regulating
the proceedings in the district courts upon petitions for the
benefit of a limited liability under the act of 1851, we supposed
it would be more convenient to continue the further proceedligs in that court. Our attention, however, having been more
--. This case, we think
1-ed to the ircuinn'
-

Oct. 1880.]

THE " BENEFACTOR."

it possible that the rights of the parties may be better preserved by continuing the cause in the Circuit Court. We
have deemed it advisable, therefore, to alter our judgment in
this respect, and to prepare a general rule, which we shall nom
announce, extending to the circuit courts on appeal the regulations which have heretofore been adopted for the district
courts in cases of proceeding to obtain the benefit of a limited
liability under the act. We make this general rule in order to
obviate all objections as to the ability of the Circuit Court to
proceed.
A question has been made whether, under our decisions in
these cases, proceedings ought to be stayed on the decree of the
respondents against the steamship "Benefactor," her claimants
and stipulators, until the determination of the proceedings on
the petition for limited liability. We have no hesitation in
saying that they ought to be so stayed. Our opinion was very
clearly expressed, in deciding the limited liability case, that
the petitioners were not too late to obtain relief, and that proceedings to collect any decrees rendered against them should be
stayed. We held that such decrees would have the effect of
,*es j. dieat on the question of the liability of the steamship,
and as to the amount of damage sustained by the libellants;
and that the amount of the decrees would stand as the basis
for determining the pro rata share of the libellants in the common fund to be distributed on the termination of the limited
liability proceedings. We do not well see how our views could
have been misunderstood on this point.
It is not necessary, or proper, at this time, to pass upon the
question whether the appellants, when called upon to pay the
amount of their stipulation into court, will be liable to pay
interest thereon or not; nor whether they will be liable to pay
the costs of the libellants in addition to the value of the steamship; nor whether the Circuit Court may or may not require
them to pay the value of the said ship into court, or give a
new bond, before the termination of the limited liability pro.
ceedings. Should the future action of the Circuit Court on
any of these points be brought before us on appeal, it will
be time enough then to give them the proper consideration.
The order of the court upon the several applications nov

SHARP V. STAMIPING

CO.

[Sup. Ct

submitted will be, that the former judgment and mandate of
this court in the case arising upon the petition of the appellants, the New York and Wilmington Steamship Company,
for the benefit of a limited liability, be, and they are hereby,
modified so far as they contain directions to the Circuit Court
to enter a decree reversing the decree of the District Court
and giving directions for further proceedings; and that instead
of said portion of the said judgment and mandate, directions
be, and they are hereby, given to the Circuit Court to proceed
upon the petition of the said New York and Wilmington
Steamship Company for such limited liability, and hear and determine the same, in conformity with law and the opinion of
this court, in the mean time staying proceedings upon any and
all decrees or judgments against the steamship "Benefactor" by
reason of the collision referred to in said petition until the proceedings for limited liability be determined, and to answer the
determination of the same. It is further ordered that each
party pay their own costs on these motions.

SHARP V. STAMPING COMIPArY.
Letters-patent No. 79,989, granted July 14, 1868, to Hiram Y. Lazear, tor an
improvement in gas-heaters, are valid.

APPAT from the Circuit Court of the United States for

the District of Massachusetts.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Arthur v. Briesen for the appellant.
Mr. J. L. S. Roberts, contra.
the opinion of the court.
On July 14, 1868, letters-patent No. 79,989 were granted to
one H. Y. Lazear for an improved apparatus for broiling steak
by gas. This patent was transferred by the assignment of the
MR. JUSTICE WOODS delivered

