164

COUNTY OF CHicoT v. LEwis.

;-up. CL

services were voluntarily rendered by the defendant, and no
use whatever was made of the results of his investigation. The
law, therefore, does not imply a contract to pay for them, and
proof of their value was quite immaterial.
The evidence rejected was properly excluded on another
ground. The defendants were charged in the declaration with
a joint liability, but there was no privity between them, either
by law or contract. The evidence offered was to show a joint
liability. So far as it went it failed to do this; on the con
trary, it was made to appear that each of the defendants was
building its own part of the structure at its own expense, and
for its own use. After the award and payment of the prizes
they assumed no joint liability, as the evidence admitted clearly
showed. And the evidence offered did not tend to establish
a joint liability. It did not, therefore, support the case made
in the declaration, and was properly excluded from the jury.
As the plaintiff asked no leave to amend, this ruling of the
court is not a ground of error.
We find no error in the record.
Judgment affirmed.

COUNTY OF CHICOT v. LEwis.
An act of the legislature of Arkansas, passed in 1868, authorizes any county to
subscribe to the stock of any railroad company in that State, provided the
subscription shall not exceed $100,000, and the consent of the inhabitants of
the county thereto shall first be obtained at an election held for that purpose.
At an election held under that act, the voters of a county voted to subscribe
$100,000 to the stock of company A. and P100,000 to the stock of company
B. Held, 1. That the act does not restrict the county to a single subscription. 2. That the power to subscribe is general, limited only by tho subscription of $100,00' to the stock of any one company.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for

Eastern District of Arkansas.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. U. M. Rosefor the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Eben W. Kimball, contra.

the

Oct. 1880.]

COUNTY OF CHICOT v. LEWIS.

MiR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The legislature of Arkansas, in 1868, passed an act, the first
and second sections of which are as follows: "SECT. 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State
of Arkansas, that any county in this State may subscribe to the
stock of any railroad in this State, now chartered or incorporated,
or which shall hereafter be chartered or incorporated, under and in
accordance with the laws of this State, and may issue bonds for the
amount of such stock so subscribed, with coupons for interest thereto
attached, under such limitations and restrictions, and upon such
conditions as the county court may require, and the president and
directors of such company may approve: Provided,that the amount
of such subscription shall not exceed one hundred thousand dollars,
and the consent of the inhabitants of such county to such subscription ,hall be first obtained in the manner hereinafter provided.
"SE c. 2. Whenever the president and directors of any such
railroad shall make application to the county court of any county
ftr such subscription by such county to its stock, specifying the
amount to be subscribed and the condition of such subscription,
and one hundred voters of the county shall petition the court for
such purpose, it shall be the duty of the court immediately to order
an election, to be holden at the place and in the manner other elections in such county are holden, for the purpose of determining
whether such subscription shall be made, and at least twenty days'
notice thereof shall be given in the manner provided by law for
other elections, at which election those voting for such subscription sihall have written or printed on their ballots or tickets the
words ' for subscription' or 'against subscription' and if a majority
of the votes cast shall be in favor of subscription, the court shall
cause such subscription to be made, and upon its acceptance by the
company, shall cause bonds to be issued in conformity with such
vote."

Under 'this act Chicot County subscribed $100,000 to the
stock of the Mississippi, Ouachita, -and Red River Railroad Company, and $100,000, to the stock of the Little Rock, Pine Bluff,
and New Orleans Railroad Company, both subscriptions being
made by virtue of a single election held by the voters of the
county for that purpose. Bonds were issued for the amount
of each subscription, $100,000 thereof payable to the Missis.
sippi, Ouachita, and Red River Railroad Company, or bearer,

COUNTY OF CHICOT v. LEWIS.

[Sup. Or.

and $100,000 thereof payable to the Little Rock, Pine Bluff,
and New Orleans Railroad Company, or bearer. Each bond
contained the following recital: -"This bond is one of a series numbered from one to two hundred, inclusively, of like date, tenor, and amount, issued under :in
act of the General Assembly of the State of Arkansas, entitled ' An
act to authorize counties to subscribe stock in railroads,' approved
July 23, 1868, and in obedience to a vote of the people of said
county at an election held in accordance with the provisions of said
act authorizing a subscription of one hundred thousand dollars to
the capital stock of said railroad company."
And each bond was executed by the judge under the county
seal, and attested by the county clerk.
The present suit was brought by the defendant in error to
recover the amount of certain coupons, some of which were
attached to bonds issued to one of the railroad companies, and
some of them to bonds issued to the other company. The
complaint alleged that the plaintiff was purchaser and bona
fide owner of the coupons for value. The county put in a plea
setting up the fact of a single election in reference to both subscriptions, and the amount of stock subscribed and bonds issued
for each road. This plea being demurred to, the question was
raised, whether the two subscriptions, amounting in the aggregate to $200,000, were ultra vires of the county under the proviso of the first section of the act. The court below sustained
the demurrer and gave judgment for the plaintiff.
We do not well see how a different decision could have been
made. The act did not restrict the county to a single subscription. Its language is, "Any county in this State may
subscribe to the stock of any railroad in this State, . . . and
may issue bonds for the amount, &c., provided that the amount
of such subscription shall not exceed one hundred thousand
dollars." That is, the power to subscribe is general, but no
subscription shall exceed $100,000. The meaning might have
been more distinctly expressed by using the plural, "any railroads," and making the proviso to read, "the amount of such
subscriptions shall not exceed one hundred thousand dollars to
any one railroad;" but the same sense is sufficiently indicated

Oct. 1880.]

COUNTY OF CHICOT v. LEWIS.

by the words actually employed. The power given is a power
to subscribe to any railroad. This includes all railroads in the
State, without restriction. A subscription to one does not extinguish the power of subscribing to any other railroad: otherwise, a subscription of 51,000 to one railroad would exhaust
the power; for the argument is based upon the idea that a single exercise of the power exhausts it and leaves the county
fundus officio. It may be said, that such a construction might
lead to disastrous consequences by opening the door to subscriptions to a ruinous amount. But no subscription can be
made without an election in favor of it. The law simply
meant to give the county full liberty on the subject, limiting
only the amount of a single subscription. That the limitation
contained in the proviso has reference to a single subscription
only is apparent from a bare reading of the context. Omitting
surplus words, the section reads thus: "Any county in this
State may subscribe to the stock of any railroad in this State,
and issue bonds therefor; provided that the amount of such
bseriptiQon [that is, the subscription to any railroad] shall not
exceed one hundred thousand dollars." Here the words "any
railroad" are used distributively, including all railroads taken
severally ; and the limitation has reference to the subscription
to "any railroad," that is, to any one railroad taken separately. Had the legislature desired to limit the power of
subscription to $100,000, the natural and appropriate mode
of doing so would have been either to limit the county to
one subscription not to exceed $100,000, or to provide that
the amount of its subscriptions should not in the aggregate
exceed $100,000. Neither of these things was done. As the
law stands, it confers a general power to subscribe to the
stock of any railroad in the State for any amount not exceeding $100,000.
This construction of the statute disposes of the case, and
renders it unnecessary to consider the other point raised by
the defendant in error; namely, that as a bona fide holder
of the coupons he is not obliged to go behind the recital
in the bonds to which they were attached, which amounted
to a declaration by the county authority intrusted with the
power to ascertain and determine the fact, that the bonds

KILBOURN v. THOmPSON.[

[Sup. Ot.

were issued under the act, and in obedience 'to an election
held in accordance with its provisions. Perhaps a criticism
might be made upon 'this arghment, that by comparing the
two classes of bonds together it would appear from the several recitals that 'the county had issued more than .9100,000
in amount.
We findno error in the record.
Judgment affirmed.

KILBOURN v. THOmPSOx.
1. K., for refusing to answer certain questions put to him as a witness by the
House of Representatives of the Congress of the United States, concerning
the business of a real-estate partnership of which he was a member, and to
produce certain books and papers in relation thereto, was, by an order of
the House, imprisoned for forty-five days in the common jail of the District
of Columbia. He brought suit to recover damages therefor against the
sergeant-at-arms, 'who executed the order, and the members of the committee, who caused him to be brought before the House, where he was adjudged to be in contempt of its authority. Held, that, although the House
can punish its own members for disorderly conduct, or for failure to attend
its sessions, and can decide cases of contested elections and determine the
qualifications of its members, and exercise the sole power of impeachment
of officers of the government, and may, where the examination of witnesses is necessary to the performance of these duties, fine or imprison
a contumacious witness,-there is not found in the Constitution of the
United States any general power vested in either House to punish for
contempt.
2. An examination of the history of the English Parliament and the decisions of
the English courts shows that the power of the House of Commons, under
the laws and customs of Parliament to punish for contempt, rests upon
principles peculiar to it, and not upon ay general'rule applicable to all
legislative bodies.
The Parliament of England, before its separation into two bodies, since
known as the'House of Lords and the House of Commons, was a high
court of judicature,-the highest in'the realm, -possessed of the general power incident to suchl a court of punishing for contempt. On its
separation, the power remained with each body, because each was considered to be a court of judicature and exercised the functions of asuh a
court.

