Oct. 1880.]

CODDINGTON

0,. IIAILROAD CO.

that decision would hardly be considered just which should be
reached by a sort of compromise, in which the prejudice
of one race were set off against the prejudices of the other."
Id. 869.
As I am unable to find any warrant in the Fourteenth
Amendment for the legislation of Congress interfering with the
selection of jurors in the State courts, or to perceive, even if
that legislation be deemed valid, any error in the ruling of the
court of Delaware I am of opinion that its judgment should be
affirmed.

CODDINGTON1

v. RAILROAD COMPAN Y.

k., pursuant to his contract, surrendered to a railroad company coupons attachei
to tome of its bonds, whereof he was the holder, and took in exchange therefor certificates of preferred stock. The road, with its franchises, was subsequently sold by the trustees of the Internal Improvement Fund of Florida, to
pay the bonds, whereof those, which he held, constituted a part. Eight years
after the ,ale he brought this suit to rescind the contract upon the ground of
fraud, all the particulars of which were as well known to him when the sale
was made as at any subsequent time. Held,that his right to relief was barred
by his laches and by the Statute of Limitations.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Florida.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Me. D. P. Holland for the appellant.

M,'. 0. W. Jones, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The allegations of the complainant's bill, which was dismissed
on demurrer, show that prior to 1866 he was the owner of two
hundred and fifty-two first-mortgage bonds of the defendant,
the Pensacola and Georgia Railroad Company, with several
overdue coupons of interest attached ; that in 1866 the president of the company induced him to exchange these coupons for
certificates of its preferred stock; that he afterwards bought of
other persons similar certificates, which had, in like manner,

CODDINGTON

V.

RAILROAD CO.

[Sup. Ct.

been received in exchange for unpaid coupons, so that in 1869
he was the owner of $64,085 of these certificates; and that the
surrender of the coupons in exchange for the certificates was a
fraud practised upon him by the president, on whose representations he relied.
In what this fraud consisted is nowhere stated, except that
the company had no authority under its charter to issue such
stock, and that if it had, the certificates were invalid for want
of the common seal of the company to them.
We do not think it necessary to decide either of these
questions.. They depend upon either the general statutory
law of Florida, or the charter of the company, of both of
which the complainant must be presumed to have had notice.
He was certainly bound to know that the certificates which
he received were without the seal of the company.
There is no allegation of any other fraud, nor of the time of
the discovery of any fraud.
The Statute of Limitations of Florida enacts that all actions,
except those for recovery of real estate, must be commenced
within three years after the right accrues, but in an action for
relief on the ground of fraud, the cause of action is not deemed
to have accrued until the discovery by the aggrieved party of
the facts constituting the fraud.
All the facts now alleged to constitute the fraud in this case
were as well known to the complainant at the time of the
transaction as they now are.
The trustees of the internal improvement fund, under the
authority vested in them by law, sold out the railroad company, its property and franchises, by way of foreclosure of the
mortgage which secured the bonds and coupons of the complainant and others, in 1869, for the sum of $1,220,000. The
bill alleges that this was without authority of law, but no sufficient reason for the latter allegation is given.
It does not appear that the complainant ever made any demand upon these trustees for the share of this money due him
on account of these coupons, or notified them or the railroad
company of his intention to rescind the contract. As far as
this bill shows, his first action or notice of intention to rescind
the contract or to assert rights to or under the coupons is this

Oct. 1880.]

CODDINGTON V. RAILROAD

CO.

suit, brought in 1877, eight years after the railroad and the
franchises of the company had passed to purchasers under that
sale.
An attempt to evade the Statute of Limitations and the doctrine of laches is made by the following allegations: "Your orator further alleges and charges that by the said
act of the said trustees he has been unable to follow said property, except without setting aside said sale and title to the said
property. That the president of said company shortly afterwards moved out of the State of Florida and has since died;
that the secretary of the company turned over all the books and
papers to some parties to your orator unknown, and that the
said secretary, F. H. Flagg, has since died; that your orator
has not been able to find any board of directors of said company since A.D. 1869.
"That your orator is informed and believes that there has
been no president or secretary elected by the stockholders or
others, and no board of directors, since 1869; that he has failed
to get any relief, nor can he find any board of directors to
whom to apply for relief since 1869."
The act of the trustees here referred to was the sale of the
road for the foreclosure of the mortgage. All the practicable
relief which the complainant can obtain by this bill is against
the fund arising from the sale in the hands of the trustees of
the improvement fund. This relief could better have been had
immediately after the sale than now. There has been during
all this time no obstruction to a suit against them. The railroad company became of no consequence, had no property and
no interest in this litigation after the sale.
It is by no means evident that if they were liable to a suit,
that some one could not have been found on whom service
could have been made. There was during all this time the
same means of serving process on the company that existed
when the present suit was brought.
The marshal in this suit returns a service on D. W. George,
one of the directors of the company in Florida, and he was
probably a resident director during all that time. Upon this
service the railroad company appeared by counsel and derurred.

LINCOLN V. IRiON CO.

[Sup. Ci.

We are of opinion that both by reason of the Statute of Limitations and the general doctrine of laches, in failing to tender
his certificates in due time and assert a rescission of the contract,
the demurrer was well taken.
Decree a.ffimed.

Lixco,

v. IRox CoapAI-y.

L Where a municipal corporation, being thereunto authorized upon the per.
formance of certain prerequisites, has issued its bonds, which get into circulation as commercial securities, -Held, that they are Primafaeie binding on
the corporation according to the terms and conditions expressed on their
face, and that, in an action on them, or the coupons thereto attached, the
plaintiff need not aver such performance.
2. Want of such performance, when in any case available to defeat a recovery,
must be set up by the corporation.
3. A verdict cures a defective statement of a title or cause of action.
4. A verdict in assumpsit, the plea being non assumpsft, "that the defendant
is guilty in manner and form as alleged in the declaration," is amendable, and judgment may be rendered thereon for the damages thereby
assessed.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Michigan.
This was an action brought by the Cambria Iron Company
against the township of Lincoln, a body corporate and politic,
in the county of Berrien, created under the laws of Michigan.
Judgment was rendered for the plaintiff, and the township sued
out this writ of error.
The facts are fully stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. J. PF. Severens for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. M J. Smiley for the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE, BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The principal question raised in this case by the assignment
of errors is as to the sufficiency of the first and second counts
of the declaration.
These counts are upon certain bonds
alleged to have been made and executed by the township of
Lincoln, in the county of Berrien, aud State of Michigan, in

