RAIL: CLD COMPANIES V. SCHUTTE.

[Sup. Ck

RAILROAD COMPANIES v. SCHUTTE.
FLORIDA CENTRAL RAILROAD COMtPANY v. SCHUTTE; JACHKSONVILLE, PENSACOLA, AND MOBILE RAILROAD COMPANY

V.

SCHUTTE;

COMPANY v.

WESTERN

NORTH

CAROLINA

RAILROAD

DREW.

1. The circumstances stated under which bonds of Florida, payable to bearer,
issued in aid of certain railroad companies, signed by her governor and
her treasurer, and sealed with her seal, were sold by the active efforts
of the governor and came into the hands of subjects of Holland. Most of
the sales were in tlfat country. Held, that inasmuch as the bonds, though
fraudulent in their inception, were put upon the market and sold in a
foreign country to a people largely unacquainted with the English language, a case is presented which justifies.the court in treating the ownera
of them as purchasers for value and in good faith, and entitled to relief
accordingly.
2. One S., having money in his hands belonging to a corporation, W., fraudulently diverted it from the use to which the company had appropriated it,
and purchaed therewith bonds of the P. & G. and of the T. railroads. S.
subsequently 'ianded over the bonds to D. and others, purchasers of the
railroads from the trustees of the State internal improvement fund, that D
and his associates might use them in payment, it being the understanding
that they were to raise money by mortgage and pay S. what he had advanced on the bonds, with commissions and fees in addition; and S., besides
taking stock in the new company to be formed, was to have certain privileges in the election of directors. D. and his associates not being able to
raise the balance of the purchase-money remaining after applying the
bonds, S., by giving to the trustees a fraudulent check, got possession of
the title-deeds, and caused them to be recorded. Thereupon D., for himself
and his associates, executed a paper, purporting to convey the railroads te
S., "in trust for the express purpose of enabling said S. - which he hereby
agrees and binds himself to do - to convey the same to that incorporation,
consisting or to consist as incorporators of said D. and his associates," as
soon as the latter should be incorporated as a railroad company by the
legislature. The legislature incorporated D. and his associates, and the
company at once, without objection from S. or any one in his interest, took
possession of the property and operated the railroad as owner. One L.,
who had succeeded to S. under his contracts, assumed control of the company, and was its principal stockholder. A new railroad company was then
incorporated, which absorbed the other and took possession of its property.
Both S. and L. were named as incorporators of the new company. The corporation W., whose funds S. had thus embezzled and invested, averred in its
bill that the ownership of the property was in it. Through its agents it
had also entered into a contract of settlement with S. and L., stipulating
that the money it had lost should be paid to it from the proceeds of the

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD COMPANIES v. SCHUTTE.

sales of certain State bonds to be issued to the railroad company on the
faith of the ownership of this property. Held, that the corporation W. was
estopped from setting up title to the property as against bona .fide holders
of the bonds.
3. The legislation under which certain bonds were issued by the State of Florida
in aid of railroads having been pronounced unconstitutional by the Supreme
Court of that State, this court passes upon the liability of the railroad
company as guarantors of such bonds,- the case upon the facts being
within the rule of the liability of an indorser of commercial paper.
4. Contracts created by, or entered into under, the authority of statutes are to
be interpreted according to the language used in each particular case to
express the obligation assumed.
. The State, by the terms of the statute, having a lien on the property of the
railroad company as trustee for the holders of the bonds, it does not follow,
because the provisions of the statute in respect to the execution and exchange of the State bonds is unconstitutional, that the statutory lien is
void also. The anconstitutional part of the statute may in this instance
be stricken out, and the statutory mortgage left in full force.
6. A suit was brought by the State of Florida against the F. C. Railroad Company, alleging default in the payment of interest due on the company's
bonds given in exchange for State bonds, and seeking to enforce the statutory lien by the sale of the roads and the application of the proceeds to
the holders of the State bonds. The company answered, setting up fraud,
the uncon'titutionality of the law touching the State bonds, and averring
that the railroad bonds were not a lien. The Supreme Court of the State
dismised the bill because it was not proved that any of the State bonds
were in the hands of loa fide holders. The point as to the statutory
authority, however, to exchange the,bonds and create a lien, was directly
made by the pleadings, and, after full argument, elaborately considered by
elbd, that the decision on this point was in no just sense obiter.
the court.
7. It cannot be said that a case is not authority on one point, because, although
that point was properly presented and decided in the regular course of the
consideration of the cause, something else was found in the end which disposed of the whole matter.

APPELLS, from the Circuit Court of the United States for

the Northern District of Florida.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Geoej'e F. Edimunds, Mr. William A. Maury, Mr.
Samuel P. Phillips, and 31r. James 1. Baker for the Florida
Central Railroad Company.
3r. James ll. Baker and Mr. James Baker for the Jacksonville, Pensacola, and Mobile Railroad Company.
ALr. George -P. Edmunds, Mr. Samuel P. Phillips,and Mr.
Joseph B. Steiwart for the Western North Carolina Raihoad
Company.
Me. AIlutthezv H. Carpenter and J,-L. Wfraqne Hac 'eaghi, contra.

RAILROAD COMPANIES V. SCHUITE.

[Sup. Ct.

MtF. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
These cases, although separate in form, are so connected in
their facts that they may properly be considered and decided
together. The facts are these :The Florida, Atlantic, and Gulf Central Railroad Company,
incorporated by the General Assembly of Flcrida in 1853,
built a railroad from Jacksonville to Lake City. The Pensacola and Georgia Railroad Company, also incorporated during
the same year, built a road from Lake City through Tallahassee to Quincy in the direction of Mobile, with a branch to
Monticello; and the Tallahassee Railroad Company, incorporated at a somewhat earlier date, built another road from
Tallahassee to St. Marks. Each of these companies became
indebted to the State of Florida under the provisions of the
internal improvement law, and, as a consequence, the road of
the Florida, Atlantic, and Gulf Central company was sold, on
the 4th of March, 186 , by the trustees of the internal improvement fund, under the authority of law, to William E. Jackson
and his associates, that of the Pensacola and Georgia company,
on the 6th of February, 1869, to F. Dibble and his associates,
and that of the Tallahassee company on the same day and to
the same parties.
The road from Jacksonville to Lake City was paid for in full,
and a conveyance in due form executed to the purchasers, who,
on the 29th of July, 1868, were, under the name of the Florida
Central Railroad Company, incorporated by the General Assembly of the State, with all the powers and franchises of the
Florida, Atlantic, and Gulf Central company. They were also
authorized to fix the amount of the capital stock of the company, and the number of shares into which it should be divided.
In this way the capital was put at 8550,000, with five thousand
five hundred shares. Of these shares George W. Swepson afterwards became the purchaser of four thousand three hundred
and seventy, which he paid for with money in his hands belonging to the Western Division of the Western North Carolina Railroad Company, a North Carolina corporation, which
he fraudulently diverted from the use to w1hich it had been
appropriated by that company.

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD COMPANIES V. SCHU'IrE.

Swepson also purchased, with the funds of the same North
Carolina corporation, bonds of the Pensacola and Georgia and
the Tallahassee companies to the amount of $960,000, or thereabouts, and on the 24th of April, 1869, he entered into a contract with the purchasers of the roads of those companies by
xhich he was to deliver them these bonds to use in making
their payments of purchase-money; and they, as soon as they
ef.juld get the necessary authority from the legislature, were to
raie money by a mortgage on the property and pay him what
lie had advanced to buy the bonds, with certain commissions
atd attorney's fees, and $100,000 in addition. The contract
couteinplated an incorporation of the purchasers after the mann-r of the Florida Central company, with a distribution of onethird of the stock to Swepson. As security for the payment
of the sum agreed to be paid, the bonds issued under the contemiplated mortgage were to be disposed of in a particular way,
and Swepson was to be given certain privileges in the election
of directors. Under this arrangement Swepson banded over
960,300 of Pensacola and Georgia and Tallahassee bonds to
the purchasers; but after these bonds had been applied in the
way contemplated there still remained a balance of the purchase-money, amounting to $472,065, to be paid. Deeds conveying the property to Dibble for himself and his associates
were executed in due form, but their delivery was withheld on
account of this default in payment. Dibble and his associates
being unable to raise the money, Swepson, by putting off on
the trustees of the improvement fund a worthless check that
was never paid for the amount that was due, got possession of
the deeds and had them duly recorded April 22, 1869. On
the same day Dibble, for himself and his associates, party
of the first part, executed a paper which on its face purported
to convey the roads to Swepson, "said party of the second
part, in trust for the express purpose of enabling said party of
the second part- which he hereby agrees and binds himself
to do - to convey the same to that incorporation, consisting or
to consist as incorporators of said F. Dibble and his associates,
as soon as said Dibble and his associates shall have granted to
them such a similar relief as the legislature of the said State of
Florida granted to William E. Jackson and his associates by act

RAILROAD

COMPANIES V. SCHUTTE.

[Sup. Ct.

for relief of William E. Jackson and his associates, approved
July 29, 1868, and also for the further purpose of securing said
party of the second part in all advances made as specified and
agreed upon in the said agreement between these parties, executed and dated March 26, 1869, and the advancement, as aforesaid, of said sum of four hundred and seventy-two thousand and
sixty-five dollars, until such time as said relief shall have been
granted and said party of the second part shall have conveyed
said property to said incorporation, as hereinbefore prescribed."
This instrument was never acknowledged or recorded.
On the 24th of June, 1869, the proposed act of incorporation
was obtained, by which Dibble and his associates, as purchasers
of the roads, were made a body corporate under the name of
the Tallahassee Railroad Company, to hold, operate, and enjoy
the property purchased, with all the powers, privileges, and
franchises of the Pensacola and Georgia and the original Tallahassee companies, and with power to issue bonds secured by
mortgage; "Provided, that any deed of trust, mortgage, or
conveyance, bond or bonds, or security which may have been
executed, made, created, or contracted for, as a lien on said
railroad or otherwise, by said Franklin Dibble, in behalf of
himself and his associates, prior to the passage of this act,
shall be valid and effectual to all intents, either at law or in
equity, as a lien or a mortgage, or security on said railroad, as
if the same had been made by-virtue of this act, and shall in
nowise be affected by any provisions thereof." Sect. 6.
The new Tallahassee company was duly organized under
this charter, and took possession of and operated the roads.
Afterwards, to remove all doubts as t6 the title of the corporation to the property of the old companies, Dibble, for himself
and his associates, at some time during the year 1870, executed
a paper which purported to 'be a conveyance, in due form, for
that purpose, by which he professed to relinquish and quitclaim to the corporation all his rights. This paper was not
acknowledged, and was not in fact a legal conveyance of the
property. No conveyance in form was ever executed by Swepson, neither has he at any time, so far as appears, attempted
to exercise any rights under the conveyance or transfer which
was madp to him.

Oct. 1880.J

RAILROAD COMPANIES V. SCHUTTE.

On the 24th of June, 1869, an act was passed by the General
Assembly of Florida to "perfect the public works of the State."
By this act, "in order to secure the speedy completion, equipment, and maintenance of a connection by railroad between
Jacksonville, on the Atlantic coast, and Pensacola, on the
Gulf coast, and Mobile, in Alabama," George W. Swepson,
Milton S. Littlefield, J. P. Sanderson, J. L. Re Qua, William
H. Hunt, their associates, successors, and assigns, were constituted a body politic and corporate under the name of the
Jacksonville, Pensacola, and Mobile Railroad Company. This
company was authorized to build a railroad from Quincy to the
Alabama State line, and there connect with any road running
to Mobile, and to consolidate with the several companies owning roads from Quincy to Jacksonville, from Tallahassee to St.
Marks, and the branch to Monticello. The original charter
was somewhat amended on the 28th of January, 1870, after
which sects. 9, 10, 11 of the original charter, and sect. 4 of the
amended charter, were as follows :"SECT. 9. In order to aid the said Jacksonville, Pensacola, and
M,,ile Railroad Company to complete, equip, and maintain its
rmtil, and to aid in perfecting one of the public works embraced in
the internd improvements of the State, the governor of the State
is hereby directed to deliver to the president of the said company
COUpin bonds of the State to an amount equal to sixteen thousand
dollars per mile for the whole line of road and length of railroad
owned by or belonging to said Jacksonville, Pensacola, and Mobile
Railroad Company, in exchange for first-mortgage bonds of said
railroad company, of the denomination of one thousand dollars,
when the president thereof shall certify upon his oath that the road
or parts of road for which lie asks for an exchange of bonds is completed, and is in good running order. The said bonds shall be of
the denomination of one thousand dollars, signed by the governor,
countersigned by the treasurer, sealed with the great seal of the
State; shall bear eight per cent interest, payable semi-annually,
and shall be payable to bearer. They shall be dated on the firs,

day of January,

A. D.

1870, and shall be due thirty years thereafter,

and principal and interest shall be payable at such place in the cit 3
of New York as the governor shall designate. The coupons for
interest shall be payable to bearer, and shall be authenticated by
e written or engraved signature of the treasurer: Provided,

RAILROAD

COM!PANIES V. SCHUTTE.

[Sup. Ct,

however, that when the Jacksonville, Pensacola, and Mobile Rail.
road Company shall or may determine to pay the interest in gold
for or upon their bonds or the bonds designated in the tenth section of an act entitled 'An Act to perfhet the public works of the
State,' approTed June 24, 1869, upon giving notice to the governor
of such intention, then the State bonds aforesaid and the coupons
for interest on said bonds shall be payable in gold, notice of which
shall be given by the governor in some paper published in the city
of New York, and at the capital of this State, to be designated by
the governor.
" SECT. 10.

In exchange for the bonds of the State above de-

scribed, the president of the company shall deliver to the governor
of the State coupon bonds of the company, bearing a like rate of
interest, payable to the State of Florida, signed by the president,
sealed with the corporate seal; coupons payable to State of Florida,
authenticated by the written or engraved signature of the president. The bonds shall be of such denominations, not less than one
thousand dollars, as the said company may choose, and principal
and interest shall be payable at the same time and place as tho
aforesaid State bonds.
"SECT. 11.

To secure the principal and interest of the said corn

pany bonds, the State of Florida shall, by this act, have a statutory
lien, which shall be valid to all intents and purposes as a first mortgage duly registered, on the part of the road for which the State
bonds were delivered, and on all the property of the company, real
and personal, appertaining to that part of the line which it may
now have or may hereafter acquire, together with all the rights,
franchises, and powers thereto belonging, and in case of a failure
of the company to pay either principal or interest of its bonds or
any part thereof for twelve months after the same shall become
due, it shall be lawful for the governor to enter upon and take possession of said property and franchises, and sell the same at public
auction, after having first given ninety days' notice by public advertisement in at least one newspaper published in each of the
following places: the city of New York, in the State of New York,
the city of Savannah, in the State of Georgia, and the city of Tallahassee, in the State of Florida, for lawful money of the United
States, and for nothing else, except that the State, for its own protection, may become the purchaser at said sale, and may pay on
said purchase any evidences of indebtedness the State may hold
against said roads, which purchase-money or said evidences of
indebtedness shall be paid on the day of sale into the treasury of

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD COMPANIES V. SCHUTTE.

this State, or within ten days thereafter ; and all moneys arising
1i'om said sale and paid into the treasury of this State, as heretofore
prescribed, shall be promptly and exclusively applied to the payment and s:itisthction of the bonds issued by the State of Florida,
under this act, and in case the holders of said bonds do not present
thiem tbr redemption within ninety days after said sale, the treasmer hall invest. the same, or any part thereof which may be remaining in his hands, in the securities of the United States, to be
held by the State of Florida, as trustee for the bondholders, until
said bondholders shall demand the same, upon which demand the
treasurer shall immediately turn over or pay said securities to the
boudholders. The purchaser or purchasers of said road shall be by
said sale p sse scd of all the rights, privileges, and franchises of said
,Itlhultineg company, together with the franchise of use and being a
li,,dy politic, and, the governor shall, upon the payment of said purchase-money into the treasury of this State, as above provided,
immediately cause the purchaser or purchasers of said road at said
sale to lie placed in the actual possession, use, and enjoyment
thereiof, and cause all the books, papers, and real and personal property of said company, of every description, together with its franchise of use and being a body politic and corporate, to be turned
,iver to said purchaser or purchasers, and the purchaser or pur,-hasers of said road shall be by said sale possessed of all the rights,
privileges, and franchises of said defaulting company, together with
the franchise of use and being a body politic and corporate, and
may use any new corporate name they see fit, and make and use a
new seal upon signiting their action in writing to the governor,
and thereafter may exercise all the rights of a body corporate and
privileges thereot and of said defaulting company, under said new
name, tor the term of thirty-five years, to date from the time of
purchase as aforesaid. That any such sale shall be ratified by the
Ik!ilature befire the same shall become effective."
"SiT. 4. That the governor shall, for the purpose of further
aiding said Jacksonville, Pensacola, and Mobile Railroad Company
in the peedy ctonstruction of its road, deliver to the president of
,4aid c-julpany coup,on bonds of this State, of the same character as
tht1oe above described in this act, to the amount of sixteen thousand
dollars per mile, upon receiving for and from the president of said
eompany first-mortgage bonds of like amount on any part or portion ,of the road between Quincy and Jacksonville: Provi(ledl,howemr, the State binds under this section shall not be exchanged for
first-mortgage bonds for a greater length than one hundred miles

126

RAILROAD

COMPANIES V. SCHUTTE.

[Sup. ot.

of any part of railroad between Quincy and Jacksonville: 2i)vided, the said railroad company or companies shall not issue first
mortgage bonds to a greater amount than sixteen thousand dollars
per mile."

Under the authority of this act the new Tallahassee company was consolidated with the Jacksonville, Pensacola, and
Mobile company, May 25, 1870, by the name and having the
corporate powers of the Jacksonville, Pensacola, and Mobile
Railroad Company, with a capital of $6,000,000, divided into
60,000 shares. Previous to this time M. S. Littlefield had
succeeded to all the rights of Swepson in these several transactions, and in the distribution of stock in the consolidated company he was given 38,433 shares of the agreed capital. He
represented 9,930 out of the 10,000 shares at the meeting of the
stockholders of the Jacksonville, Pensacola, and Mobile company which voted for the consolidation, and 17,998 of the
30,000 shares of the Tallahassee company voting to the same
effect. The Florida Central company never entered into the
consolidation, and the consolidated company, therefore, only
became the owner of the roads west of Lake City.
After the consolidation was perfected the Jacksonville, Pensacola, and Mobile company executed its bonds, payable to the
State for $3,000,000, as allowed by sect. 10 of its charter, and
received in exchange bonds of the State for the same amount,
such as were provided for in sect. 9, and in the following
form: "UNITED

"No.

.]

STATES

OF AmERICA.

State of _lorida.

[No.
"It is hereby certified that the State of Florida justly owes to
or bearer, one thousand dollars, redeemable in gold coin
of the United States, at the Florida State agency, in the city of
New York, on the first day of January, 1900, with interest thereon
at the rate of eight per centum per annum, payable half-yearly at
the said Florida State agency, in gold, on the first days of July and
January in each year, from the date of this bond and until the
principal be paid, on surrendering the proper coupons hereto annexed.
"Tallahassee, January 1st, 1870.
HARRISON REED, Governor
I(FLORIDA GREAT SEAL.]
S. B. CONNER, Treasurer.

Oct. 1880.]

RAILOAD

COMPANIES V. SCHUTTE.

"Issued in accordance with act of the legislature of Florida.
approved January 28th, 1870.
"Form of Coupon.
"The State of Florida will pay to bearer forty dollars in gold, at
the State agency, in the city of New York, for interest due
on bond for $1,000.
"No.
S. B. CON ER, Treasurer.
"Indorsement.
"STATE

"No.

.]

OF FLORIDA.

THIRTY-YEAR. EIGHT PER CENT BOND.

[*1,000.

"Payable January 1st, 1900. Interest payable 1st July and January,
in gold, at Florida State agency, in the city of New York.
"This bond is one of a series issued in aid of the Jacksonville,
Pensacola, and Mobile Railroad Company, to the extent of $16,000
per mile upon completed road. The State of Florida holding the
first-mortgage bonds of said railroad company for a like amount, as
further security to the holder hereof.
"HARRISON REED, Governor of Florida."
These bonds of the State, thus indorsed, were put in the
hands of Littlefield, the president of the company, to be disposed of, and lie, under an arrangement previously made with
S. W. Hopkins & Co., of New York and London, handed the
bonds over to them for sale.
Some time in the spring of 1870 Littlefield, who was at the
time president of the Jacksonville, Pensacola, and Mobile company, and a director in the Florida Central, caused a million of
dollars of the bonds of the last-named company to be printed in
New York, and signed there by one H. H. Thompson as treasurer of the company. These bonds were made payable to the
State, and purported to be executed under the authority of the
act of Jan. 28, 1870, to amend the act of June 24, 1869, " to
perfect the public works of the State," and given in exchange
For bonds of the State to aid the Jacksonville, Pensacola, and
Mobile company. After having been signed by Thompson,
they were taken by Littlefield to Washington, where they
were signed by Swepson as president of the company. Afterwards the seal of the company was put to them, but undoubt-

RAILROAD- COOMPANIES V. SCHUTTE.

[SUP. Ct.

edly .in an irregular and surreptitious way. It is apparent,
also, frm'the evidence, that when Thompson signed the bonds
as treasurer he bad not beeh formally elected to that office by
the directors, but at a meeting of the directors, on ihe 25th of
May, Littlefield stated that Swepson, the late president, had
appointed Thompson as secretary and treasurer of the company
for the past year, and on his motion this action of the president
was approved.
On the 30th of May, 1870, an agreement was entered into
between Littlefield and one Edward Houstoun* both stockholders of the Florida Central company, by which this million of
dollars of bonds was put in the hands of Houstoun as collateral
security for a debt from Littlefield to him, and on the 2d of
June, at a meeting of the stockholders of the company, the
following resolutions were unanimously a.dopted :"Resolved, that bonds to the extent of sixteen thousand dollars
per mile be issued by this company, which bonds shall be a first lien
or mortgage on the Florida Central railroad, its equipments, franchise, road-bed, workshops, and depots, excepting, however, the
town-lots in the city of Jacksonville not.used for depot purposes.
"And whereas the late president, George W. Swepson, caused
to be prepared bonds to be issued by this company preparatory to
an order of the board of directors to that effect, and which bonds
were signed by said Swepson as president of this company and
countersigned by H. H. Thompson, treasurer:
".Be it therefore resolved, that the said bonds so signed by said
Swepson and countersigned by said Thompson, to the extent of
sixteen thousand dollars a mile, be and they are hereby adopted as
the bonds to be issued under the foregoing resolution, and that such
bonds when so issued shall be a first lien or mortgage on the said
Florida Central railroad, its equipment, franchise, road-bed, workshops, and depots (excepting the lots in Jacksonville.not used for
depot purposes).
"Be it further resolved, that said bonds shall be placed ih the
hads of Edward Houstoun for the purposes agreed upon by an
arr:.ngement between himself and Milton S. Littlefield, who is the
owncr of nearly all the stock in this company, which bonds or their
proceeds are to be held and applied according to the terms of said
arrangement, except the proportion thereof applicable or apportioiable to the stock owned by other parties and upon the satisfac-

Oct.

1880.]

RAILROAD COMPANIES' V.*SCHUTTE.

129

ti,,n rtherwise of the term, of said arrangement with said Houstoun,.
the said bond, are to be by him transferred to Milton S.'Lit'efierd,
or : ecording to his direction, to the eI.tent of the stock-ONndd. by
•
him at the time.
"P,:solveJfurther,that the dirdetors be directed to carry th
tbregoing resolutions into effect:'
(in the 7th of June, after these resolutions were passed, the
original agreement between Littlefield and Houstoun was modilied 8o as to provide for a substitution and.exchange of the
bonds of the Stat for the bonds of the company, and a. sale of
the bonls of the State by Hopkins & Co., they to pay from the.
prceeds certain sums to different parties, and the remainder,
if any, to Littlefield. So far as appears nothing was to go to
the Jacksonville, Pensacola, and Mobile company.
Afterwards, on the 21st of November, 1870, at a meeting of
the directors of the company, a report was received from a
committee appointed to take into consideration the past issue
of lionils, as follows: 'The committee finding that the bonds signed by G. W. Swepsn, 1,rcsi,16nt, anil counteisigned by H. H1. Thompson, treasurer,
are in such Ibrin as that th y cannot be used to carry out the intention of their issue when they were adopted, report the following
reoluti,on in respect thereto:
".R',led, that the resolution adopting the bonds to be issued
by the com pany,
signed by George W. Swepson, president, and
1
H. H. Thompson, treasurer, at a meeting of the board of directors,
held on the 2d of June, A.D. 1870, be and the same is hereby reseinded, and that s-id bonds be destroyed."
The resolution as reported was unanimously adopted, but
the bonds were never destroyed, and Houstoun, on the 11th of
January, 1871, delivered them upon certain trusts to Coddington, who exchanged them for State bonds, which he took to
New York, and afterwards, on the 18th of April, placed in the
hands of Hopkins & Co. in New York for sale. On the 13th
of April, 1871, at a meeting of the stockholders of the company, the following resolution was passed: "ResolvecL that Edward Houstoun is authorized to place the
bonds referred to in the preamble and resolutions of the stockholders, adopted June 2, 1870, in the hands of S. W. Hopkins &
VOL. Xiii.

9

RAILROAD COIPANIES V. SOHUTTE.

[Sup. t

Co., for the purposes mentioned in said resolutions, subject to the
same exceptions therein expressed with respect to the proportion
thereof applicable to the stock owned by other parties, and according to the same terms therein mentioned."
These State bonds were in the same form as those exchanged
with the Jacksonville, Pensacola, and Mobile company, and
they had upon them similar indorsements.
On the 24th of March, 1870, J. L. Henry, N. W. Woodfin,
W. P. Welch, W. G. Candler, and W. W. Rollins were appointed by the General Assembly of North Carolina a commission "to examine and fully investigate the condition and affairs
of the Western Division North Carolina Railroad Company, as
far as it concerns the administration of G. W. Swepson, late
president thereof, and to make a full and final settlement of all
accounts and liabilities of said president, G. W. Swepson, in
connection with said company," and this commission, on the
16th of April, 1870, entered into the following agreement: "Memorandum of agreement and settlement between the Florida
Central Railroad Company, George W. Swepson, president, and
the Jacksonville, Pensacola, and Mobile Railroad Company,
Milton S. Littlefield, president, and Milton S. Littlefield, majority owner of the stock of said companies, and also of the
stock of the Tallahassee Railroad Company, of the first part, and
the Western Division of the Western North Carolina Railroad
Company, represented by N. W. Woodfin, W. G. Candler, W.
Pink Welch, and W. W. Rollins, commissioners appointed by
an act of the legislature of North Carolina, approved by the
stockholders of said corporation, of the second part, witnesseth:
"That whereas, George W. Swepson, late president of the Western Division of the Western North Carolina Railroad Company,
made certain investments of the funds of said company in securities
of and interests in the said Florida Central railroad, Jacksonville,
Pensacola, and Mobile railroad, and the Tallahassee railroad, of
the said State of Florida, as per report made by the said George
W. Swepson to the said commissioners, amounting in the aggregate
to the sum of one million two hundred and eighty-seven thousand
four hundred and thirty-six dollars and three cents, to bear interest
from the first day of November, 1869, at the rate of eight per cent
per annum; and whereas the said George W. Swepson heretofbre
conveyed to the said Milton S. Littlefield, subject to the payment

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD COMPANIES V. SCHUTTE.

of the above-recited claim, his interest in the above-recited railroads; and whereas the said Littlefield has received authority from
the legislature of the State of Florida and the several railroad compailes to receive bonds to be issued by and for account of the several railroad companies, which bonds are to be exchanged for the
bonds of the State of Florida to be issued for the purpose of aiding
the finances of the said several railroad companies, all of which bonds
are now in a state of preparation; and whereas the said Milton
S. Littlefield has made a contract with S. IV. Hopkins and Co.,
No. 71 Broadway, for the disposition of said bonds as the same
may be issued, the proceeds of the issue of the bonds of the Florida
Central Railroad Company of the said State of Florida, amounting
to nine hundred and sixty thousand dollars, are to be applied to the
plyment of the existing liabilities of the said several railroad companies, including the sum of one hundred and fifty thousand dollars
to Ie piaid to the commissioners aforesaid, for the purpose of paying
existing liabilities of the said Western Division of the Western

North Carolina Railroad Company.
"It is understood and agreed by the parties of the first and second part that the proceeds of the sale of the said bonds, so to be
isued by the said Florida railroad companies and the said State
of Florida, are to be equally divided, dollar for dollar, between the
Western Division of the Western North Carolina Railroad Company and the said Florida railroads, and as the commissioners afore
sAid receive by this first sale of bonds only the sum of one hundred
and fifty thousand dollars, it is further understood and agreed thai
out. of the proceeds of the sale of the issue of the bonds of the Jacksonville, Pensacola, and Mobile Railroad there is first to be received
by the commissioners aforesaid a sum sufficient to be equal to the
amount received by and on account of the said Florida railroads,
and then an equal amount is to be received by the said commissi.ners and the said Florida railroads, dollar for dollar, until the
entire amount of one million two hundred and eighty-seven thousand and thirty-six dollars and three cents, with interest at eight
per cent, as atbresaid, being the sum reported by the parties of the
first part as due to the Western Division of the Western North
Carolina Railroad, is fully paid.
"It is further understood and agreed by the parties of the first
and second parts, that all the interest owned or claimed by the said
1 arties of the first part, George W. Swepson and Milton S. Littlefield, or which they as individuals have a right to control, in the said
Florida railroads, are hereby pledged for the faithful fulfilment of

RAILROAD COMPANIES V. SCHUTTE.

[Sup. Ct,

this contract without the right on the part of any party to interfere
with our management or control of the affairs of the road.
(Signed)
"GEORGE W. SWEPSON,
Pres't Fla. Cent.

. .

Co

M. S. LITTLEFIELD,
M.

S.

LITTLEFIELD,

Pres.J. P. ,J f. R. R. Co

N. W. WooDFIN,
W. W. ROLLiNS,
W. G. CANDLER,
W. P. WELCH,

Comm ission=a.

"Witnesses: M. W. RANSOM.
R. R. SwErsoN."
While these different proceedings were going on, and for a
very considerable time afterwards, strenuous efforts were made
by some parties interested to prevent a sale of the bonds of the
State-which had thus been put out. Notices of the fraud were
extensively published both in this country and in Europe.
Letters were written to those engaged in putting the bonds on
the market, and suits were begun; but notwithstanding all this
we are entirely satisfied from the evidence that twenty-eight
hundred, or thereabouts, of bonds given in exchange for those
of the Jacksonville, Pensacola, and Mobile company, and two
hundred and six given for those of the Florida Central company, were actually sold and are now owned by bonafide purchasers, most or all of whom are citizens of Holland. We
have reached this conclusion without the aid of the depositions taken in Amsterdam, which were excluded in the court
below. There cannot be a doubt that the governor of Florida
was active in promoting the sale, as was also, to some extent,
the chairman of the commission appointed by the General
Assembly of North Carolina. The bonds were taken at once
to London, and from there put on the market in Holland,
where most or all of the sales appear to have been made. The
bonds were undoubtedly steeped in fraud at their inception,
but they were nevertheless apparently State bonds on the market in a foreign country, among a people largely unacquainted
with the English language, and offering tempting inducements
by reason of their liberal interest to those who were seeking

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD Co,3PANIES V.

;CHUTTE.

investments. To promote their sale those interested in the
scheme kept a part of the proceeds to meet the interest for a
time as it matured. Under these circumstances it is easy to
see how, in the course of two or three years, with the help of
skilful managers, the amount now out would be found in the
hands of persons who believed they were holding a good and
safe investment. At any rate, upon the facts as they are pre
sented to us, we must hold that in this suit the present owners
of the bonds occupy the position of purchasers for value and in
good faith and are entitled to relief accordingly.
In March, 1872, the trustees of the internal improvement
fund of Florida commenced a suit in Duval Circuit Court,
Florida, against the Jacksonville, Pensacola, and Mobile company, to recover the balance that was due upon the purchase of
the Pensacola and Georgia and Tallahassee roads, for which
the fraudulent check was given by Swepson, and to enforce an
equitable lien they claimed to have on the property as security
for the payment. After this suit was begun Daniel P. Hol.
land recovered a judgment against the company and levied
upon and sold its railroad under execution, he himself becoming the purchaser and getting into possession. He thereupon
was made a party to the suit of the trustees, and in his answer
claimed to be the owner of the road, free of all liens in favor
of the trustees or of the State on account of the bonds exchanged for the company's bonds under the amended charter.
At its January Term, 1876, the Supreme Court of the State
decided in that case that the title which Holland took by his
purchase was subject to the prior liens on the property, and
that the bonds of the State were unconstitutional and void, but
that the bom, fide holders of the State bonds were entitled to
the benefit of the statutory lien to secure the company bonds
which were given in exchange for the State bonds. Holland v.
8tate of Florida,15 Fla. 455.
In March, 1872, the State of Florida instituted another suit
in the Duval Circuit Court against the Florida Central Railroad Company and others, alleging a default in the payment
of the interest due on the bonds of that company given in exchange for the bonds of the State, and seeking to enforce the
statutory lien by sale and an application of the proceeds to the

RAILROAD

COMPANIES V. SCHUTTE.

[Sup. Ct.

holders of the bonds of the State. To this suit the company
answered, setting up to some extent the frauds that are complained of in the present case, and further averring that the
bonds of the State were unconstitutional and void and that the
railroad bonds were not a lien. This suit also went to the Supreme Court of the State on appeal, and it was there decided,
at the January Term, 1876, - 1, That the State bonds were
unconstitutional; 2, that the Florida Central company was
authorized by the act of Jan. 28, 1870, to issue the bonds
held by the State, and that thereby a first lien was created on
the road of the company in favor of the bona fide holders of the
State bonds; 3, that there were no such circumstances connected with the issue, delivery, and exchange of the bonds as
would excuse the company from their payment to bona fide
holders; but, 4, that there was no proof in that case showing
that any of the State bonds were actually so held. State of
Floridav. Florida Central Bailroad 'o., id. 690.
Afterwards, at the January Term, 1878, in the case of the
Trustees of the Improvement Fund v. Jacksonville, Pensacola,
& Mobile Railroad Co. (16 id. 708), the same court repeated
its decision that the State bonds were unconstitutional and
that the statutory lien was good in favor of bona fide holders.
The court also in that case declared the lien of the trustees on
the roads of that company, to be prior in right to all others, as
security for the payment of the balance due on the sales under
which the present company got title to its roads. The amoun
due, as found by the court below in its decree, is 0661,845.55,
as of April 2, 1874.
After some of these decisions, and on the 80th of December,
1876, the holders of the State bonds represented in the present
suits, and having 2,751 of the Jacksonville, Pensacola, and
Mobile issue, and 197 of the Florida Central, united, and,
through a committee, applied to the governor of the State to
seize and sell the roads under the statutory liens for their benefit. Complying with this request, the governor advertised
the roads for sale, and thereupon the Western Division of the
Western North Carolina Railroad Company filed two bills in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern Dis.
trict of Florida, one to enjoin the sale of the Florida Central

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD COMPANIES V. SCHUTTE.

road, and the other that of the Jacksonville, Pensacola, and Mobile company. A preliminary injunction having been granted
and the sale stopped, J. Fred. Schutte and others, representing
the State bondholders, filed their bill in the same court to obtain a decree for the sale of the roads to pay their bonds. In
all these cases pleadings were filed and testimony taken, but
before any final hearing the General Assembly of North Carolina passed an act repealing all acts creating or continuing in
existence the Western Division of the Western North Carolina
company, and vesting in the Western North Carolina Railroad
Company absolutely all its rights, credits, rights of action, and
effects, with authority for the Western North Carolina company to prosecute, defend, and manage any or all suits pending
in which the Western Division company was interested. This
having been suggested to the court below after the cases were
called up for hearing, the suits instituted in the name of the
Western Division company were revived in the name of the
Western North Carolina company, and the parties to the suit
of Schutte and others corrected so as to adapt that case to this
change in circumstances. A hearing was then had in all the
suits, which resulted in decrees dismissing the bills of the
Western North Carolina Railroad Company. In the Schutte
suit a first lien was declared in favor of the trustees of the internal improvement fund upon the road of the Jacksonville,
Pensacola, and Mobile company as far west as Quincy, to secure
the payment of .463,175.37, with interest at eight per cent
from March 20, 1869, that being the amount of the original
purchase-money of that road unpaid, and a second lien in favor
of the complainants upon the entire road of that company, including a few miles built west of Quincy, to secure the amount
of State bonds held by them, given in exchange for the bonds
of the Jacksonville, Pensacola, and Mobile company, the principal of which was $2,751,000, and the accrued interest
$1,655,001.60. A first lien was declared on the road of the
Florida Central company for 5197,000 of principal, and
$118,515.20 of interest, on account of bonds of the State given
in exchange for the bonds of that company. Further provision
was made in the decree for the sale of the roads separately, and
for the application of the proceeds to the payment of the several

RAILROAD

COMPANIES V. SCHUTTE.

[Sup. CL

sums so found to be due from each respectively, in the order of
the priority of the liens.
From the decrees dismissing the bills of the Western North
Carolina company that company appealed. From the decree
in the Schutte case the Western North Carolina company, the
Florida Central company, and the Jacksonville, Pensacola, and
Mobile company were allowed an appeal. In perfecting their
appeal the Western North Carolina company and the Florida
Central company gave bonds which operated as a supersedeas.
Before, however, either appeal was docketed here, a settlement
was concluded between'the Western North Carolina company
and the bondholders, and pursuant to an understanding to that
effect, the appeal of that company was docketed and dismissed
in this court on the 13th of September, 1879, pursuant to the
28th Rule.
At the last term an application was made to set aside the
supersedeas obtained on the bond of the Florida Central,
because the approval of the bond was obtained by fraud and
perjury. This motion was granted. Railroad Clom2pany v.
Schutte, 100 U. S. 644. After this, on application to this
court in behalf of parties interested in the administration of
the assets of the Western Division company, and upon a representation that the settlement which had been made by the
Western North Carolina company was in fraud of their rights
and without their consent, an order was made to the effect that
the dismissal be set aside, and the cause reinstated, if the Western Division company filed with the clerk of this court by the
first Monday in February a bond, such as was specially designated. This bond was given and approved on the second day
of February, 1880, and in time.
Upon these facts, gathered, with the help of counsel, from
the confused mass of papers brought here as the transcript of
part of the record below, and filling nearly fifteen hundred
printed pages, many questions have been presented and ably
argued. We will first consider the special position which the
Western North Carolina company, as the successor of the Western Division company, occupies. So far as the Florida Central
is concerned, it is not claimed that the Western Division could
have had any other rights than such as belong to a stockholdei

oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD COMPANIES V. SCHUTTE.

holding a controlling interest in the stock of the corporation.
Its moneys were wrongfully invested in that stock by an embezzler. Swepson, the embezzler, bought the stock as stock,
and if the company whose money was embezzled adopts his
purchase, the stock must be taken as he held it, and subject to
such incumbrances as were put on it while in his hands. This
is not seriously disputed.
As to the Jacksonville, Pensacola, and Mobile company, an
attempt is made to reach the property of the company because
of the trust deed or agreement executed by Dibble to Swepson,
after the conveyances from the trustees of the internal improvement fund had been procured through Swepson's fraud. That
instrument purported, however, to be in trust for Swepson to
convey to the company to be created by an act incorporating
the purchasers of the property as soon as the necessary legislation to that effect could be obtained. It was not executed in a
form to pass title, and the security was only to continue under
this plan until the contemplated corporation could be organized. When the act of incorporation was obtained, the compauy at once, without objection from Swepson, or any one in
his interest, took possession of the property and operated the
railroad as owner. Littlefield, who had succeeded to all of
Swepson's rights under his several contracts, assumed the absolute control of the company and was its principal stockholder.
Both Swepson and Littlefield were named as corporators of the
Jacksonville, Pensacola, and Mobile company, incorporated on
the same day with the purchasers, which shortly after, as no
doubt was from the beginning intended, absorbed the purchasei.s' corporation and took possession of its property. No one
ever disputed the title of the Jacksonville, Pensacola, and Mobile
company until long after this litigation began, and the Western
Division company in its original bill distinctly averred that the
ownership of the property was in that company. Littlefield
held a controlling interest in the stock, and that undoubtedly
represented the proceeds of Swepson's embezzlements invested
in the Pensacola and Georgia and Tallahassee bonds, through
which the North Carolina company seeks to reach the property.
This is clearly recognized in the contract of settlement entered
into between Swepson, Littlefield, and the commissioners of

RAILROAD COMPANIES

z.

SCHUTTE.

[Sup. CL

North Carolina, on the 16th of April, 1870, by which it was
agreed that the North Carolina company should be paid the
money it had lost from the proceeds of the sales of the state
bonds to be issued to the Jacksonville, Pensacola, and Mobile
company on the faith of its ownership of this very property.
Certainly under such circumstances the North Carolina company is estopped from setting up title to the property as
agaii.st the bona fide holders of these bonds. In this litigation
that company can occupy no other position than that of an
equitable owner of the stock of Littlefield in the Jacksonville,
Pensacola, and Mobile company, and all incumbrances on the
property are necessarily incumbrances on the stock which the
property in legal effect represents. The settlement with Swepson was undoubtedly conditional, and not to be complete until
the money agreed on was paid, but nevertheless the North
Carolina company became by the transaction a seller of the
bonds and is estopped accordingly.
This disposes also of the claim that the lien in favor of Swepson, created by the deed, or agreement, of trust to him, was
saved by the proviso at the end of sect. 6 of the act incorporating the new Tallahassee company. It is apparent from the
whole tenor of the instrument that this was not intended as a
continuing security, and it is equally clear from the evidence
that the stock standing in Littlefield's name represents all
the interest which he or Swepson held in the property, as security or otherwise, when these suits were begun. In addition
to this, as the instrument was imperfectly executed and was
never recorded, it passed no title as against bona fide purchasers. The cases, then, in all their aspects are to be treated as
they would be if the several companies were alone, each for
itself, defending the claims made by the bondholders.
We proceed, then, to inquire whether the companies or
either of them can successfully defend the Schutte suit. At
the outset it will be conceded that the State bonds are unconstitutional. The Supreme Court of the State has three times
so decided in cases where the question was directly presented
by the pleadings, and apparently fully argued. In State of
-lorida v. Anderson (91 U. S. 667) we said this delicate
question was "one it was eminently proper the courts of Florida

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD COMPANIES V. SCHUTTE.

3hould determine," and while we are not now prepared to say
that these decisions are conclusive on us, they certainly are not
of such doubtful correctness as to make it proper that they
should be disregarded. The conclusions were reached by applying the language of art. 12, sect. 7, of the Constitution of
1868, to the condition of affairs in the State when that Constitution was adopted. Such a question is peculiarly within the
province of the courts of the State to decide, and we ought not
to depart from what they have done, except for imperative
reasons.
But it by no means follows that because the State is not
liable on its bonds the companies are free from responsibility
under their statutory mortgages. By the express provisions of
the act the State bonds were to be given the company in exchange for its own bonds. The company, not the State, was
to use and dispose of the State bonds. The object of the State
was to aid the company with its credit. The State bonds
were to be made payable to bearer, and negotiable, while the
company bonds were to the State alone and not negotiable.
The company bonds were to be coupon bonds payable at the
same time and place as the State bonds, and, if the company
paid its interest in gold, it was the duty of the State to pay in
the same way. It is clear, therefore, the intention was that, as
between the State and the company, the State was to be the
guarantor of the company bonds, and the company the principal debtor. With the public, however, it was different. There
the State was the debtor, and the company was only known
through the statutes under which the bonds were put out, and
the certificates indorsed on the bonds themselves, which were
that the State held "the first-mortgage bonds of the railroad
company for a like amount as security to the holder hereof."
Such bonds of the State with such indorsements the company
put on the market and sold. Under these circumstances the
certificate of the governor as to the security held by the State
is in legal effect the certificate of the company itself, and
equivalent to an engagement on the part of the company that
the bond, so far as the security is concerned, is the valid obligation of the State. The case is clearly within the reason of
the rule which makes every indorser of commercial paper the

RAILROAD COMPANIES V. SCHUTTE.

[Sup. Ct.

guarantor of the genuineness and validity of the instrument he
indorses. We cannot doubt that under these circumstances
the company is estopped, so far as its own liabilities are concerned, from denying the validity of the bonds. Having negotiated them on the faith of such a certificate, the company
must be held to have agreed, as part of its own contract, whatever that was, that the bonds were obligatory.
What, then, were the engagements into which these several
companies entered when, as is alleged, they accepted the bonds
of the State in exchange for their own, and put them on the
market for what they appeared on their face to be worth as
commercial paper? And here it is proper to say that contracts
created by, or entered into under, the authority of statutes, are
to be interpreted according to the language used in each particular case to express the obligation assumed. Where the State
is concerned the words employed are sometimes to be taken
most strongly against the other party, but in this, as in other
cases of contracts, language is to be given, if possible, its usual
and ordinary meaning. The object is to find out from the
-words used what the parties intended to do. Every statute,
like every contract, must be read by itself, and it no more follows that one statutory contract is like another than that one
ordinary contract means what another does. Of course, general rules of construction may and should be called into use
when required, and sometimes, when certain words used in
statutes are understood to have a certain meaning, the same
words will be given the same meaning in other like cases; still,
in the end, it must be determined from the language used in
each particular case what has been done, or agreed to be done,
in that case. We have been thus careful to state these familiar
principles in this connection to guard against the use of this
case as authority in others where the contract, even though
it be created by or under the authority of a statute, is not the
same.
In the present case a statutory lien, in the nature of a first
mortgage duly registered, was given the State on the property
of the company to secure the principal and interest of the company bonds, with power in the governor, if default, for a certain length of time, should be made in the payment of principal

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD

COMPANIES V. SCHUTTE.

or interest, to take possession of, advertise, and sell the property for lawful money of the United States. and nothing else,
unless the State, for its own protection, should become the
purchaser, when the price might be paid in money or such
obligations of the company as the State should hold. In case
of a 6ale the purchase-money, as well as the evidences of the
company's indebtedness taken as money, were to be paid into
the State treasury, and promptly and exclusively applied to the
payment and satisfaction of the bonds issued by the State under
the authority of the act now in question. If the holders of the
State bonds did not present them within ninety days after the
sale, the treasurer was required to invest the money remaining
in his hands in the securities of the United States, "to be held
ly the State of Florida as trustee for the bondholders," until
demand of the payment of the bonds, when it was made the
luty of the treasurer to turn over the securities to the bond.
holders. It would seem as though language could not be used
indicating more clearly an intention to have the lien, what the
governor when he made the exchange certified it to be, a security for the holder of the State bonds. It is quite true that, by
sect. V3 of the act under which the Jacksonville, Pensacola, and
Mobile company was organized, the company could, at any
time before maturity, pay off its own bonds in national cur
rency, or in bonds of the State; but that does not change the
character of the trust created by sect. 11, in case no such payment was made. Here no payment of any kind has been made,
and no foreclosure of the lien has been attempted by the State
except in the interest of the bondholders. The State, from the
beginning, has recognized its obligations as trustee, and, on the
request of the bondholders, commenced the proceedings, under
the authority of this statute, which have resulted in the present
suits. Indeed, one of the decisions against the constitutionality
of the bonds was rendered in a suit instituted by the State, apparently on its own motion, to enforce the lien on behalf of the
bondholders. In our opinion there is no occasion for applying
here the doctrines of subrogation, because, in unmistakable ]anVuarge, the statute has made the mortgage of the company security fr the payment of the obligations of the State. This we
understand to be in accordance with the opinion of the State

RAILROAD

COMPANIES V. SCHUTTE.

['Sup. Ct,

court, as expressed in the Holland and Florida Centra, cases,
reported in the 15th and 16th of Florida Reports.
It is contended, however, that as the provision of the act in
respect to the execution and exchange of the State bonds is unconstitutional, the one in relation to the statutory lien on the
property of the company is void also, and must fall. We do
not so understand the law. Undoubtedly a constitutional part
of a statute may be so connected with that which is unconstitutional, as to make it impossible, if the unconstitutional part
is stricken out, to give effect to what, taking the whole together, appears to have been the legislative will. In such a
case the whole statute is void; but in this, as in every other
case of statutory construction, all depends on the intention of
the legislature, as shown by the general scope of the law. To
our minds it is clear, in the present case, that the object of the
legislature was, not to create a debt which the State was expected to pay, but to aid the company in borrowing money
upon the credit of the State. As between the State and the
company the debt for the money borrowed was to be the debt
of the company. If the State paid its bonds from its own
funds the mortgage could be enforced to compel the company
to make the State good for all such payments. If the State
did not pay, then the creditors had their own recourse upon
the mortgage. The State credit, so far as the State and the
company were concerned, was only to aid the company in borrowing money on its own bonds. In any event, the company
was to be bound for the payment of the entire debt when it
matured, and its property was to be given as security. Under
these circumstances, it seems to us that the unconstitutional
part of the statute may be stricken out and the obligation of
the company, including its statutory mortgage in favor of the
State bondholders, left in full force. The striking out is not
necessarily by erasing words, but it may be by disregarding
the unconstitutional provision, and reading the statute as if
that provision was not there. These bonds, as State obligations, were void, but, as against the company which had actually put them out, they were good.
This disposes of this part of the case so far as the Jacksonville, Pensacola, and Mobile company is concerned. No chim

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD COIPANIES V. SCHUTTE.

is made that the statute does not on its face authorize that
company to exchange its bonds for those of the State, or that
the lien is not created by the exchange. Neither is it claimed
that the necessary corporate action was not had to get the
bonds out under the forms of law. Although on the 10th of
December, 1870, a resolution was passed by the directors of
the company, ordering a recall of the bonds on account of the
proposed misapplication of the proceeds of the sales to be made,
an actual withdrawal was never effected, and the bonds have
got into the hands of bona fide holders. The very resolutions
which directed the recall asserted the previous lawful and regular issue.
As to the Florida Central company, however, the case is
different, and it is claimed not only that the statute did not
authorize the exchange of the bonds and the creation of the
lien, but also that the company did not in its corporate character execute its own bonds or make the exchange.
As to the first question, we deem it sufficient to say that the
Supreme Court of Florida has distinctly decided that in the
case of this company, as well as the other, the statutory authority was complete. The point was directly made by the pleadings and as directly passed on by the court. Although the
bill in the case was finally dismissed because it was not
proved that any of the State bonds had been sold, the decision was in no just sense dictum. It cannot be said that a
case is not authority on one point because, although that point
was properly presented and decided in the regular course of
the consideration of the cause, something else was found in
the end which disposed of the whole matter. Here the precise
question was properly presented, fully argued, and elaborately
considered in the opinion. The decision on this question was
as much a part of the judgment of the court as was that on any
other of the several matters on which the case as a whole
depended.
This, like the constitutionality of the act, is a question of
local law. It depends on the peculiar condition of local affairs.
Jf the decision is not conclusive on us, it is of high authority
under the circumstances, and we are not inclined to disregard
it. The holders of the commercial paper put out by the con

RAILROAD COIPANIES V. SCHUTTE.

[Sup. Ct

pany and bought on the faith of the State are entitled to the
benefit of every presumption in their favor.
The next important inquiry is whether the necessary authority for the issue and exchange of the bonds was given by the
corporation itself. Certainly the resolution of June 2, 1870, is
on its face sufficient for that purpose, as is also that of April
13, 1871. It is true Littlefield now swears that these meetings
of the stockholders and directors were irregular and without
sufficient notice, but it is worthy of remark that, in the resolution of November 21, rescinding that of June 2, there is no
pretence that the original resolutions were not lawfully passed
and binding on the company. The rescission is put entirely
on the ground that the form of the bonds was not such as to
carry out the intention of the company in directing their issue.
Mr. L'Engle also, in his letter to Boissevain, giving notice of
the frauds that had been practised on the company, substantially conceded that the issue of the bonds was authorized by
the company, and confined his protest to the improper use that
was being made of them. It is clear to our minds from the
whole case that but for the fraudulent disposition of the bonds
the corporate action of the company in putting them out would
have been considered sufficient. Littlefield's character, as it
appears all through this voluminous record, is not such as to
entitle him to any favorable consideration as a witness or othervise. He and Swepson have both shown themselves capable
of the most shameless frauds, and we cannot but look with
,3uspiciqn upon everything they do or say. We regret it is not
in our power to relieve the corporations, whose affairs they
have been permitted to manage, from the consequences of their
wanton breaches of trust; but in our judgment this cannot be
done without injuring those who are innocent of all wrong.
It is next contended, that as the bonds were fraudulently put
out by the officers of the companies, and are unconstitutional,
the recovery must be confined to the amount actually paid for
the bonds to the agents of the companies. As we have endeavored to show, the bonds, although void as to the State, are
valid as to the company that sold them. Having been put on
the market by the companies as valid bonds, the companies are
estopped from setting up their unconstitutionality. As against

Oct.

1880.]

RAILROAD COMPANIES V. SCHUTTE.

the companies, they occupy in the market the position of corn
mercial securities, and may be dealt with and enforced as such.
The companies, through their faithless agents, are in a position where they must meet those they have dealt with commereially, and respond accordingly. In commerce, commercial
paper means what on its face it represents, regardless of what
its maker or promoter may have got for it. The bonds of the
State in the open market purported to be what they called for.
The companies put them out, and in legal effect, as we think,
indorsed them. A bona fide holder can now require the indorser to respond to his indorsement commercially; that is to
say, by paying what he in effect agreed the maker must pay.
We believe we have now disposed of all the questions the
record presents. It has been suggested that since the appeal
the property has been sold under the decree below. That is not
shown by the record. The siper'.edea6 in favor of the Florida
Central company we have decided was fraudulently obtained.
The justice who accepted the bond was imposed upon. That
l,wj~eedeas was promptly vacated when the facts were called
to our attention. The supersedeas secured by the Western
North Carolina company was, to say the least, suspended when
that company voluntarily dismissed its appeal under the 28th
Rule. This suspension was.not vacated until the bond of indemnity was filed on the 2d of February, 1880. It will be for
the court below to determine, when it is called on to confirm
any sale that has been made, whether a sale was stayed by a
valid subsisting .aepersedeas. From relief against any order in
that behalf the parties must resort to such measures as they
may be advised they are entitled to. We cannot, from anything now before us, settle any such question.
Decrees affirmed.
These cases were decided before MR.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG resigned.

JUSTICE

SwAYN, and

MR. JUSTIOE FIELD was not present at the argument of
these causes, and took no part in deciding them.
VOL. XIII.

