Oct. 1880.]

WICKE V. OSTRUM.

WICKE v. OSTRUM.
1. The invention embraced by letters-patent No. 38,924, granted June 16, 1863,
to George Wicke, for an improvement in machines for nailing boxes, is a
new combination of old elements, all of which are necessary to the validity
,of
his letters.
2. The fourth and fifth claims of these letters, fairly construed, are for the combination of the cam,gate, and treadle of the adjustable carriage, table, and
slide, with the clements of the other claims, and they are not infringed by
machinsc manufactured ,uhtantially in accordance with letters-patent No.
172,579, granted Jan. "25, 1876, to Henry P. Ostrum, for an improvement in
machines for nailing boxes.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
This is a suit by William Wicke against Henry P. Ostrum
to restrain the alleged infringement by the latter of letterspatent No. 38,924, granted June 16, 1863, to George Wicke,
fr an improvement in machines for nailing boxes, of which
letters the complainant is the owner. The defendant denied
tlw' infringement, and alleged that the machines made, used,
and sold by him were manufactured substantially as specilieil and claimed in letters-patent No. 172,579, granted to him
Jan. 25, 1876, for an improvement in machines for nailing

boxes.

The specification and drawings of Wicke's machine are as
follows: a'ho, i It muiy conceri? :
"Be it known that I, George Wicke, of the city, county, and
State of New York, have invented a new and improved machine
tfar nailing boxes; and I do hereby declare that the following is a
thull, lear, and exact description of the same, reference being had
to the accompanying drawing forming a part of the specification,
in which"Fig. 1 represents a sectional side elevation of my invention.
"Fig. 2 isa fiont elevation of the same.
"Similar letters of reference in both views indicate corresponding- parts. The object of this invention is to drive the nails which
hold together tho several boards constituting a box for cigars or for
other articles. The nails are generally driven by a hammer, each

To oll

WICKE V. OSTRUI.

[Sup. Ct.

nail for itself, which obviously is a very tedious operation. This
invention consists in the employment of grooved spring jaws for

7

the purpose of holding the nails and to guide them to the proper
place, and it consists further in combining with said spring jaws a
corresponding number of rising and falling plungers for the purpose
of driving each nail singly and all at the same time; and also in arranging said plungers with globe or disk shaped collars in such a
manner that they spread the grooved spring jaws at the proper
moment and allow the heads of the nails to pass; also in arranging
the cam that serves to depress the plungers with a circular portion
in such a manner that the plungers cannot be depressed any further than necessary to drive the nails; finally, in the general arrangement and combination of all the parts, so that the plungers and jaws
as well as the table which supports the boards can be adjusted according to the different sizes of boxes to be made.
"To enable others skilled in the art to make and use my invention, I will proceed to describe it.

Oct. 1880.]

WICKE V. OSTRUM.

"A represents a frame of cast-iron or of any other suitable mate.
rial. Secured to the upper part of this frame by means of angular
guide-pieces, a, is the rising and falling gate B, which is operated by
means of a cam, C,on the end of a shaft, D, which connects by an
arm b and rod c with a treadle, d.
"The cam C, on being turned in the direction of the arrow
marked on it in Figure 2, depresses the gate B, until the circular
portion ef bears upon the gate. This portion of the cam is made
to form part of a circle described from the centre of shaft D, so that
the cam may be turned more or less without depressing the gate
B any further than desirable.
"The gate B acts on one or more plungers, B, each of which
moves up and down in a carriage, F, and a spring, g, has the tendency to raise the plunger after the same has been depressed, or to
keep it up when not exposed to the action of any power. The carriage FA ides in a lateral direction on ways G, and it is adjusted at
the proper point where the nail is to be driven by set screws h. A
series of plungers to correspond to the number of nails to be driven
simultaneously may be so arranged that, by depressing the treadle,
all the plungers are depressed and consequently all the nails inserted at the same time.
"The lower end of the plunger E is turned down, as clearly
shown in the drawing, leaving them just large enough to cover the
heads of the nails to be driven, and a disk-shaped collar, i, is formed
at a short distance above the lower ends.
"When depressed, the plunger enters the spring jaws ff, which
are secured to the sides of the carriage P. These jaws are provided
with grooves, j, to receive the nails (see Figure 1), and they are so
formed that when the plunger descends, the disk-shaped collar i
spreads the same, allowing the head of the nail to pass freely through
the groovesj.
"The nails are fed through an inclined tubular channel, I,one
after the other, and if several plungers are used, the whole series are
depressed by one motion of the cam .
"A table, J, on the lower portion of the frame A, serves to support the boards to be nailed, and this table is adjustable by means
of screw spindle _E; said boards are adjusted in the correct position
by a slide, L,which is adjustable in a groove 1. A small recess in
the frame A allows the horizontal boards to project very little beyond the edge of the vertical board, so that the rough edges of the
boards can be removed by the aid of a plane after the nailing has
been accomplished.

WICKE V. OSTRUDI.

(Sup. Ct.

"The table ,T the slide E, and the plunger or plungers can thus
be adjusted to suit boxes of different size, and the nails are driven
simultaneously by one motion of the foot.
"What I claim as new, and desire to secure by letters-patent)
is"1 st, The employment of the grooved spring jaws, H, substantially as described for the purpose of receiving the nails, and to
guide them to their proper places.
"2d, The combination with the spring jaws, H, of the rising
and falling plunger, 1Ei constructed and operated substantially as
and for the purpose described.
"13d, Arranging the plunger, .E with a disk-shaped collar, i, ei
its equivalent, to operate in combination with the spring jaws, H,
substantially as and for the purpose described.
"4th, The arrangement of the circular portion, ef, on the cam,
C, to operate in combination with the gate, B, and treadle, d, substantially as and for the purpose set forth.
"5th, The arrangement and combination of one or more adjustable carriages F, table , and slide Z, constructed and operating in
the manner and for the purpose substantially as specified?
Ostrum's specification and drawings are as follows: "To all whom it may concern:
"Be it known that I, Henry P. Ostrum, of the city and county
of New Haven, State of Connecticut, have invented an improve.
ment in machines for nailing boxes, and I do hereby declare the
following to be a full, clear, and exact description of the invention,
such as will enable others skilled in the art to which it appertains
to make and use it, reference being had to the accompanying drawing, forming a part of this specification, in which "Figure 1 is a direct end view or elevation of the end of the
machine. Figure 2 is a perspective view of the machine.
"M£y invention relates to that class of machines which are used
for nailing together the sides and ends of boxes, in which any required number of nails may be simultaneously driven by a treadle
or other means, and consists in a novel construction and arrangement of parts hereinafter more fully set forth and claimed.
"The letter A, Fig. 2, indicates a platform of cast-iron, having
projections on its under side in which the rod y, screws pp, and
rock shaft G, turn, and on which the ratchets o o move back and
forth. This platform, with the legs attached, constitutes the frame
of the machine. The rest B is a straight bar of metai extending

Oct. 1880.]

WICKE

V. OSTRUM.

across and beyond the platform A, and has pins x x passing through
holes in the same, which are forced down upon the ratchets o o by

Fic. 1

VOL. XIII.

WICKE V. OSTRULM.

[Sup. Ct.

springs attached to the rest. It is also provided with the guides i i,
which slide between the side edges of the platform and the ratchets
o o. The ratchets o o are straight bars of iron with notches on their
upper sides, and are movable back and forth, on the projections
from the under sides of the platform, and extending beyond it.
Each of these ratchets has a nut attached to it, in which the screws
p p turn and by which the ratchets are moved. Only one of these
screws is shown in the drawing. In the front projection from the
under side of the platform are two screws or threaded bolts p p,
Fig. 2, which turn in the projection and in the nuts attached to
the ratchets, and have a bevel-gear wheel attached, by which they
are turned. The shaft y is also made to turn in the projections
from the under side of the platform, and is furnished with two
bevel-gear wheels, which mesh in the bevel-gear wheels on the
screws p p, and is also furnished with a crank on one of its ends.
The elevated straight bar q-,supported on two posts attached to the
platform, is arranged so that its front side and the front ends of
the dies m m m are in the same plane, and serves to hold one of
the pieces to be nailed at right angles to the other piece resting
on the platform.

The dies m m m vary in number with the nails

to be driven; are made with slots on their upper sides, which are
enlarged at their ends nearest the hammers, to correspond with the
size of the heads of the nails placed in them; and to allow the nails
to lie parallel with the platform, or nearly so, and are fitted into
the dovetailed slot in the platform. They are loosely held in their
places by the hammers, and may be, when desired, securely held
by a wedge in the dovetailed slot, moved by a screw on its outer
end.
"The head a, is a bar of cast metal, extends across the platformP
and has on its ends enlargements or cross-pieces, which slide on the
platform. It is held in its place by the pieces, ff, screwed to the
platform, and has a slot in which the hammers are held, and a pin,
e,in each of the enlargements or cross-pieces which fit in the slots
in the short arms d d of the rock shaft G, by which the head is
moved back and forth. The hammers n n n vary also in number
with the nails to be driven, and are in the form of a threaded bolt
with a head, from the front ends of which small rods, a little larger
than the nails to be driven, project into the enlarged end of the
slots in the dies. They are provided with nuts, by which they are
held in the head a, and by which they may be adjusted at any
distance apart. The rock shaft G, arranged under the platform, is
made to turn in projections from the platform, and with a long arm

Ot 1880.]

WICKE V. OSTRUM.

E extending nearly to the front side of the machine; also with two
short upright arms, d d, having slots in their ends. A spiral spring
extends from the long arm, and is attached to the under side of the
platfim, and draws the arm upwards, while the short arms move
tli* head a backward.
"The treadle D is a part of, or is attached to, a bar, extending
to a shaft pivoted to two of the legs of the frame, or is otherwise
suitably constructed; it is also suitably connected to the long arm
of the rock shaft.
" With the above description of the parts of my machine, its
operation will be readily understood. As the pieces to be nailed
together are placed, the one perpendicularly against the firont
ends of tle dies m n m, and against the elevated bar a, and the
other on the platform against the first, and as the rest B is adjusted
against it by the pins x x, operating on the ratchets o o, as pawls,
the pieces are then screwed together between the dies m m m, and
the rest B, by turning the rod y, geared to the screws pp, movin, the ratchets o o, and the rest B. The fi-ame A, the dies mmm,
and the rest B, adjusted by the pins x, acting on the ratchets o o,
and moved by the screws p p, co-operate to tightly hold the pieces
to he nailed. The pieces being thus held, as the treadle D is
ireed downward, the head a, with the hammers n n n, is forced
toward, driving the nails placed in the slots in the dies m m m, to
their places, nailing the two pieces together.
"I am aware of the patent granted to M. Blaser, No. 155,284,
Sept. 22, 1874, and hereby disclaim the same.
"I claim as my invention "The combination of frame A, treadle -D, rock shaft G, head a,
provided with one or more adjustable hammers, n n, one or more
adjustable dies, mnm, and the rest B, all the said parts constructed
and combined substantially as set forth."
The court, on final bearing, dismissed the bill, and the complainant appealed.
31. Arthu'r v. Briesen for the appellant.
Mr. William T. Birdsall and Mr. N. A. Calkins, contra.
Mr. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The patent sued on in this case is for a machine for nailing
boxes, invented by George Wicke. Before this invention nails

WICKE V. OSTRUMi.

[Sup. Ct.

were driven singly, and by hand. By the machine more than
one could be driven at the same time.
In the description of the invention which accompanied the
application for the patent, the inventor said, in effect, that it
consisted in the employment of grooved spring jaws for the
purpose of holding the nails and guiding them to their places,
combined with a corresponding number of rising and falling
plungers for driving each nail singly and at the same time.
The plungers were made with globe or disk shaped collars, so
adjusted or arranged that they would spread the spring jaws at
the proper moment to allow the heads of the nails to pass. To
depress the plungers, he arranged a cam, so formed and fitted
as to have spent its force when the nail was driven to its place.
"Finally," he said his invention consisted "in the general
arrangement and combination of all its parts, so that the plungers and jaws, as well as the table which supports the boards,
can be adjusted according to the different sizes of the boxes to
be made." He then described the construction of the different parts of the machine and the manner of its operation, from
which, and the drawings and models, it appears that the machine was an upright one, by means of which the nails were to
be driven vertically.
With such a machine the nails must necessarily be held in
place by some mechanical device until they were guided to and
fastened in the board. A nail implies a head larger than its
point, and, if it is to be driven vertically, some provision must
be made for directing the point carefully to its proper place, and
then letting the head pass without obstruction as it is driven.
Such clearly was the office of the "grooved spring jaws" and
the "globe or disk shaped collars'" of the plungers in this
machine.
To make the claims of his letters-patent intelligible, they
must be read in connection with the specifications to which
they relate, and in this way it becomes apparent that the object
of the inventor was to secure a patent for a new combination
of old elements. Grooved spring jaws were confessedly very
old. So were rods of iron with curvilinear projections, like
those called plungers, and cams, of almost any shape, and
kareadles, and levers, and adjustable carriages, tables, and slides.

Oct. 1880.]

WICKE V. OSTRUM.

The use of these things separately could not be patented. But
the combination of them so as to produce a machine useful for
driving nails was new. This the inventor might claim, and, so
far as anything appears, he was entitled to a patent for the
V.niployment of spring jaws in the combination and for the purpo,;e described in his specifications; for the combination of his
1wieliarly shaped plungers with spring jaws for the purposes
,f such a machine; for the use of the cam he described in
vmbination with the gate and treadle to drive his machine;
and for the adjustable carriage, table, and slide when used on
such a machine as his. He was entitled also to the benefit of
all the mechanical equivalents of his several elements, known
at the time of his invention, if used in the same combination.
As has already been seen, Wicke made an upright machine.
For such a machine the combination of all his several elements
was necessary. If any one, or its mechanical equivalent, was
left out, an upright machine like his could not be operated
successfully. A combination of other elements, not the equivalents of his, would be a different machine, and consequently
not an infringement. From the evidence it is clear he was the
first to put into practical use the idea of driving more than one
nail at the same time in the manufacture of boxes by the use
of uachinery. The idea he could not patent, but his contrivance to make it practically useful he could. By his patent he
appropriated to himself only so much of the field of invention which his idea embraced as was covered by the machine
dle~cribed in his specification and claimed in his application.
The defendant conceived the idea of driving nails horizon.
tally instead of vertically, and made a machine for that pur.
,,e, which he patented. He does not use the spring jaws or
the peculiar shaped plungers of the Wicke machine, because
he does not need them. As his object is to drive the nails
liorizontally, they can be laid in a groove and held there by
gravity until forced into the board. Having no spring jaws to
lie opened, he need not shape his plunger or driver so as to
effect that object. He thus has been enabled to dispense with
two elements of Wicke's combination, in the absence of which
that machine could not be successfully worked. Neither has
lie substituted any mechanical equivalent for what he has thus

WICKE V. OSTRUI.[

[Sup. Ct.

put aside. By changing the form of the machine and the manner of its operation, he has no need of any such contrivances.
le may use the equivalent of one half of the spring jaw of
Wicke's machine, but he does not want the other half, or anything else in its place, as the n'ail will lie where it is put until
driven into the board. He accomplishes by natural causes what
Wicke required a mechanical contrivance to do. His machine
will not do the work of Wicke's, that is to say, drive a nail
vertically, nor will Wicke's do that of his, and drive horizontally. The truth is, the two machines are entirely unlike, and
while they both drive more nails than one at the same time,
they do it in different ways. That of Wicke, operating verti
cally, requires all the elements of his combination, while that
of the defendant, doing its work in another way, is made by
leaving out two elements which are indispensable to Wicke.
The fair construction of the fourth and fifth claims is that
they are for the combination of the cam, gate, and treadle, or
the adjustable carriage, table, and slide, with the elements of
the other claims. It is possible that if there had been nothing
more done by the defendant than to put into the machine of
Wicke his rock shaft and attachments in the place of the cam,
the shaft would be considered as the equivalent of that element
in Wicke's device. So, too, the bed, slides, and gauges of the
defendant's machine, if used in that of Wicke, might be considered the same in effect as the adjustable carriage, table, and
slide which he contrived. But these contrivances of the defendant are not used in combination with any of the other devices
of Wicke, and, therefore, they do not infringe his claims.
On the whole, we are clearly of the opinion that the court
below was right in holding, as it did, that no infringement had
been proven.
Decee afflrned

