Ot. 1880.]

WILLIAMIS V. CLAFLIN.

must be taken as binding. The issue of the funding bonds did
not increase the aggregate of the indebtedness of the corporation, but only changed its form.
Judgment affirmed.

WILLIAMS v. CLAiLnr.
The ruling in Jerome v. lMcCarter (21 WaL 17), that where, by reason of the
changed circumstances of the case, or of the parties, or of the sureties on a
sup6rsed as bond, so that the security, which at the time it was taken was
sufficient, does not continue to be so, this court will, on proper application,
so order and adjudge as justice may require,-reaffirmed, and applied to this
case.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of South Carolina.
Motion to vacate the supersedeas, or for a new bond.

11.r. George P. Edmuinds and Mr. ames Lowndes in support
of the motion.
MJr. .PhilipPhillips and 3r. Samuel Lord, Jr., in opposition
thereto.
Mi. C]HEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
In Jerome v. McC'arter(21 Wall. 17), we said that if, after
security on an appeal which operated as a supersedeas had
been accepted, the circumstances of the case, or of the parties,
or of the sureties on the bond, had changed, so that the security,
which at the time it was taken was sufficient, did not continue
to be so, we might, on proper application, so adjudge and order
as justice should require. The present appellants are interested
only in preserving their security for a debt of the railroad
company amounting, when the decree was rendered, to about
,152,000.
When they took their appeal, execution of the
whole decree had been stayed by another appeal of the present
appellees, who were the complainants below. Consequently
the amount of security to be given then by these appellants
ws a matter of but little importance comparatively. The
VoL. X11.

48

THE " CONNEMARA."

[Sup. Cto

other appeal has been dismissed, and in this way the circumstances of the case are materially changed. It is easy to see
that what was sufficient security on this appeal when taken is
probably not so now. The bonds secured by the mortgage
according to the decree amount to several millions of dollars,
and the value of the security is necessarily subject to the fluctuations of trade. The appellants are to a considerable extent
interested in the same bonds, but if their debt is paid in full
they cannot complain at the execution of the decree.
The supersedeas herein will be so far modified as to allow n
sale of the mortgaged property to be made under the decree,
but the court below will retain in its registry, subject to the
order of this court until the final determination of the present
appeal, so much of the proceeds as shall be sufficient to satisfy
and discharge any balance that may remain of the debt due
these appellants, after the proportionate share they receive
under the decree upon the bonds and coupons held by them as
collateral shall have been applied thereon ; and it is
So ordered.

THE ,Co1o"mMA1A
Where salvors united in a claim for a single salvage service, jointly rendered by
them, the owner of the property is entitled to an appeal where the sum decreed
exceeds $5,000, although the Circuit Court deemed it proper to apportion the
recovery among the salvors according to their respective merits.

MOTION to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit Court of the

United States for the District of Louisiana, united with a motion
to affirm the decree.
M r. _ichard De Gray and Hr. J. B. Beekwith in support of
the motion.
Mr.Philip Phillips, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIOE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
The suit below was by a set of salvors to recover for a single
4alvage service, and there was but one claim filed tor the prup

