Oct. 18so.]

COUbNTY OF JASPER v. BALLOU.

COUNTY OF JASPER v. BALLOU.
The charter of a railroad company in Illinois allowed counties, &c., to subscribe
to the stock of the corporation and issue bonds in payment, if a majority of
voters, at an election called by the county court, should favor the subscription.
The voters of a county, which had adopted a township organization, voted
In favor of subscribing to the stock at an election called by its 6oard of
supervisors. A subsequent statute, relating to the company, provides that
"all elections held for the purpose of voting said stock, and the manner in
which said stock was voted, are hereby legalized in all respects, and the
stock to be subscribed in the manner the same was voted." On the authority
of this act and the election, the board of supervisors issued bonds of the
county. At this time a county court existed in the county. Before the
bonds fell due, a statute was passed authorizing municipal corporations,
&c., to fund their bonds, which, in brief, declared that in cases where a
county, &c., had issued bonds for subscription to railroad companies, &c.,
"which are now binding or subsisting legal obligations," and "which are
properly authorized by law," the county, &c., might, on surrender of such
bonds, issue new ones, with the provision that the issue should first be authorized by a vote of the majority of the legal voters of the county, &c.
Conformably to this provision, and pursuant to such a vote, the board of
supervisors issued, in exchange for the old bonds, funding bonds, having a
longer period to run and bearing a lower rate of interest. In a suit against
the county by a holder of funding bonds, which he had received in exchange
for surrendered bonds,-Huld, 1. That the vote of the people at the last
election recognized the original bonds as binding and subsisting obligaticr.s,
and that the county is therefore estopped from setting up that they were
invalid because voted for at an election called by the board of supervisors
instead of by the county court. 2. That where, at an election held according to law, the people of a county authorized their proper representatives to
treat certain outstanding county obligations as properly authorized by law for
the purpose of settling with the holders, and the settlement has been made,
the validity of the obligations can no longer be contested.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
31r. Joh 111. Palmer for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. .D. T. Little', eontra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.

The Constitution of Illinois, which went into effect April 1.
1848, contained the following :-

COUNTY OF JASPER

v. BALLOUo

[Sup. Ut.

"ART. VII., SE.cT. 6. The General Assembly shall provide by a
general law, for township organization, under which any county
may organize whenever a majority of the voters of such county, at
any general election, shall so determine, and whenever any county
shall adopt a township organization, so much of this constitution as
provides for the management of the fiscal concerns of the said
county by the county court may be dispensed with, and the affairs
of the said county may be transacted in such manner as the General
Assembly may provide.'
Accordingly, in February, 1849, a law was passed authorizing the township organization of counties, and directing that,
when such an organization was adopted, the affairs of the county
should be conducted by a board of supervisors. Counties not
under township organization were managed by county courts.
The Grayville and Mattoon Railroad Company was incorporated Feb. 6, 1857, and on the 1st of March, 1867, its charter was amended so as to allow counties to subscribe to the
stock and issue bonds in payment, if a majority of the voters of
the county, at an election called by the county court, should
vote in favor of such a subscription. The county of Jasper,
through which the road of the company ran, was under township organization, and its board of supervisors called upon the
voters of the county to vote at an election to be held on the
7th of April, 1868, whether a subscription of $100,000 should
be made to the stock of the company by the county, payable in
bonds of the county, to be issued as the work progressed, onesixth of which were to fall due annually from the time they
were put out. The election was held, and resulted in a majority
in favor of the subscription. At a meeting of the board of
supervisors, Jan. 23, 1863, the chairman was authorized to subscribe the stock as soon as it might legally be done. An act
of the General Assembly of the State, approved Match 27,
1869 (Acts of 1869, vol. iii. p. 360), relating to this company,
and to votes which had been taken for subscriptions to its
stock, contained the following as sect. 3:"That all elections held for the purpose of voting said stock, and
the manner in which said stock was voted, are hereby legalized in
all respects, and the stock to be subscribed in the manner the same
was voted."

Oct. 1880.]

COUNTY OF JASPER V. BALLOU.

On the authority of these several acts and this election the
board of supervisors issued one hundred bonds of $1,000 each,
in the following form: "Know all men by these presents, that the county of Jasper,
State of Illinois, acknowledges itself to be indebted in the sum of
one thousand dollars lawful money of the United States of America,
which said sun of money the said county promises to pay the Gray%ille and Mattoon Railroad Company or bearer, at the office of the
in the
county treasurer of said county, on the first day of
with interest
year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and
at the rate of ten per centum per annum, which interest shall be
payable on the first day of each year, at the office of the treasurer
of said county, on the presentation and delivery of the coupons
severally hereto annexed.
"This bond is issued under and by virtue of a law of the State
of Illinois, entitled an act to incorporate the Grayville and Mattoon
Railroad Company, passed February 6, 1857, and amendatory acts
thereto in force March 1st, 1867, and March 27, 1869, in compliance
with a vote of the electors of said county at an election held April
7, 1868, in accordance with said acts.
"This bond is one of a series limited to one hundred thousanddollars, one-sixth of the amount made payable annually, at ten per
centum per annum, istued for stock in the Grayville and Mattoon
Railroad Company by the county of Jasper, and placed in trust for
of the
delivery only by the trustee herein named, to wit,
county of Jasper, which shall not become obligatory unless the certificate indorsed hereon be signed by said trustee.
"The faith of the county of Jasper is hereby pledged for the payment of the principal sum and interest aforesaid.
"In testimony whereof, the county of Jasper by its chairman of
the board of supervisors of said county and the clerk of the county
court as ex-officio clerk of said board of supervisors have subscribed
A.D. 187 .
day of
this bond this
" County Clerk.
" Chairmanof the Board of Supervisors.
"I hereby certify that this bond is one of a series of bonds held
by me as trustee of the county of Jasper to be delivered to the
Grayville and Mattoon Railroad Company as per order of the board
as stated therein.
STrustee.'

COUNTY

OF JASPER v. BALLOU.

[Sup. t

The bonds fell due, some in 1877 and others in each year
thereafter, until and including the year 1883 It nowhere
appears when the bonds were put in the hands of the trustee,
but none of them bore date prior to Oct. 19, 1876.
At all the times when these several things were done there
was in the county of Jasper a county court as well as a board
of supervisors.
On the 14th of April, 1875, the General Assembly passed
an act, the material part of which is as follows: "SE T. 1. That in all cases where any county, city, town, township, school district, or other municipal corporation have issued
bonds or other evidences of indebtedness for money on account of
any subscription to the capital stock of any railroad company, or on
account of or in aid of any public buildings or other public improvement, or for any other purposes which are now binding or subsisting
legal obligations against any county, city, town, township, school
district, or other municipal corporations, and remain outstanding
and which are properly authorized by law, the proper authorities of
any such county, city, town, township, school district, or other
municipal corporation may upon the surrender of any such bonds
or other evidences of indebtedness, or any number thereofi issue in
place or in lieu thereof to the holdet's or owners of the same new
bonds, &c. .

.

. And such new bonds or other evidences of in-

debtedness so issued shall show on their face that they are issued
under this act: Provided, that the issue of such new bonds in lieu
of such indebtedness shall first be authorized by a vote of a majority
of the legal voters of such county, city, town, township, school
district, or other municipal corporation, voting either at some
annual or special election of such municipal corporation: And provided further, that such bonds or other evidences of indebtedness
shall not be issued so as to increase the aggregate indebtedness of
such municipal corporation beyond five per centum on the value of
the taxable property therein, to be ascertained by the last assessment for State and county taxes prior to the issuing of such bonds
or other evidences of indebtedness." Acts of 1875, p. 68.
Under the authority of this act the board of supervisors
called an election of the voters of the county, to be held on
the third day of April, 1877, for the purpose of voting for or
against funding the "bonds issued to the Grayville and Mattoon
Railroad Company for the sum of 8100,000, drawing ten per

Oct. 1880.]

COUNTY OF JASPER v. BALLOU.

cent interest; said hundred bonds to be due in twenty years,
and payable at the option of the county in ten years; said
bonds to draw interest not to exceed seven per cent per
annum, said interest to be payable semi-annually at the treasurer's office in Jasper County." At this election a majority
of the voters were found to be in favor of the measure. Afterwards funding bonds were issued in exchange for old bonds in
the following form:"For value received, the county of Jasper, in the State of Illinois,
promises to pay the bearer one thousand dollars on the first day of
May, A.D. 1897, with interest from date, payable on the first days
of May and November in each year (on surrender of the annexed
coupons), at the rate of seven per cent per annum, until the principal sum shall be paid.
"Principal and interest payable at the county treasurer's office,
in the town of Newton, in said county. The county of Jasper reserves the right to pay this bond on or at any time after May 1st,
1887, upon giving at said place of payment, and also by an advertisement in some New York City daily newspaper at least six (6)
months' notice of such intention, and interest shall cease from the
day on which this bond is by such notice made payable.
"This bond is one of a series of bonds numbered from 1 to 100,
inclusive, amounting in all to one hundred thousand dollars, issued
by said county of Jasper, for the purpose of funding legally incurred
indebtedness of the county and under and in accordance with an
act of the General Assembly of the State of Illinois, approved April
14th, 1875, entitleI 'An Act to amend an act entitled "An Act to
enable counties, cities, townships, school districts, and other municipal corporations to take up and cancel outstanding bonds and
other evidences of indebtedness, and fund the same,"' approved
and in force March 26, 1872, all provisions of which act have been
duly complied with.
"In testimony whereof, we, the undersigned, officers of Jaspei
County, being duly authorized to execute this obligation on its
behalf, have hereunto set our signatures and affixed the county seal
this
day of May, A. D. 1877.
[sEAL.]

"County Clerk.

CThairman."
After these bonds were put out the indebtedness of the county
exceeded somewhat five per cent of the value of the taxable

COUNTY OF JASPER V. BALLOU.

[Sup. Ct.

property as ascertained by the last preceding assessment. The
plaintiff below, and defendant in error here, being the owner
of coupons cut from some of the funding bonds falling due in
May and November, 1878 and 1879, which were unpaid, brought
this suit to recover them. He was the holder and in possession
of a part or the whole of the original bonds when the funding
took place, and took the funding bonds in exchange for such of
the original bonds as he then held.
Upon this state of facts the court below gave judgment against
the county. The case is now here by writ of error, and the
single question is presented, whether the county made out a
valid defence to the coupons sued on.
In our opinion the county is estopped from setting up the
alleged invalidity of the original bonds as a defence in this
action. It is true the funding law only authorized the funding
of "binding and subsisting legal obligations," "properly authorized by law," but no new bonds could be issued in lieu of
old ones except on a vote of the people. All outstanding bonds
were not to be taken up in this way, but only such as were
recognized by the people, acting together in their political
capacity at an election for that purpose, as binding and subsisting legal obligations. After such a recognition the corporate authorities could make the exchanges, but not before.
The law under which the original bonds were put out was
sufficient. No complaint is made of any illegality in its provisions. The only objection is that there was a mistake in
carrying it into execution. The election was called by the
wrong corporate agency. The county court should have brought
the people together and not the board of supervisors. This, if
there had been nothing more, would, under the rulings of the
highest court of the State, made long before the vote was
taken, render the bonds invalid. Supervisors of Schuyler Co.
v. People, 25 Ill. 181. It was for this reason, undoubtedly that
the board of supervisors, at their meeting after the election,
authorized the subscription to be made and the bonds delivered
in payment as soon as it might lawfully be done, and that the
act to legalize the election was passed in 1869. We have not
had our attention called to any case in which the courts of the
State had decided, before this funding took place, that, under

Oct. 1880.]

COUNTY OF JASPER

v.

BALLOU.

the Constitution of 1848, an act which simply legalized an
invalid or irregular election for a subscription, and left the corporate authorities free to make the subscription at their option,
would not cure any defect there may have been in the election,
and empower the proper authorities to bind the county by anything that might be done under it and within its scope. It
had been decided more than once that the legislature could not
()Mp~el a municipal corporation to incur a debt without the
consent of the corporate authorities. Harward v. St. Clai
Drainage Co., 51 Ill. 130; Hessler v. Drainage Commaissoners, 53 id. 105; Marshall v. Sillm an, 61 id. 218. But undei
the Constitution of 1848 a vote of the people was not essential
to the validity of a municipal subscription to the stock of a railroad company. The legislature could authorize the corporate
authorities, whoever they might be, to act in such a matter
without the express direction of the people. What it could not
do was to make it mandatory on them to subscribe without a
vote. This we understand to have been the extent of the decisions, and in this way it was that, if with the legalization of
the vote there was coupled a command on the corporate authorities to subscribe, or a confirmation of a subscription already
made, the curative statutes were held to be inoperative. It
had never been held that language, such as was employed in
this curative act, was compulsory, or that it did more than
legalize the election, leaving it for the board of supervisors to
determine whether they would subscribe or not. That was an
open question in the State courts until the case of Gaddis v.
.Richland County (92 id. 119), not decided until June, 1879,
two years and more after the bonds now in question were out.
When, therefore, the people were called on to vote whether
the old bonds should be funded, the facts they had to consider
were these: A valid law authorizing the subscription and an
issue of the bonds had been passed. The people, at an election
which had been irregularly called, had voted to make the subscription and issue bonds bearing ten per cent interest, and all
payable within six years. An act had been passed to legalize
the election, and under it the subscription which had been
voted was made, and bonds such as were contemplated had been
isued and were then outstanding in the hands of various par

COUNTY OF JASPER v. BALLOU.

[Sup. at.

ties. Whether these bonds were valid was, so far as any direct
decisions were concerned, an open question, and certainly not
free from doubt. Under these circumstances the question was
directly put to the people of the county, in a manner authorized
by law, whether they would recognize these bonds as "binding
and subsisting legal obligations," and issue in lieu of them other
bonds having twenty years to run and bearing seven per cent
interest instead of ten; and they by their vote said they would.
There is no complaint of any illegality in this election, or of
fraud or imposition. So far as the record shows, the proposition to fund went from the county authorities to the bondholders, and not from the bondholders to the county. The
facts were as well known to one party as the other. If the
people intended to rely on their defences to the old bonds, then
was the time for them to speak and by their vote say they
would not recognize them as binding obligations. By voting
the other way they, in effect, accepted them as legal and subsisting for the purposes of the proposed extension of time at
reduced interest, and said to the holders if their proposition
was accepted, no question of illegality would be raised. Their
offer having been accepted, they are now estopped from insisting
upon an irregularity which they have by their votes voluntarily
waived, with a full knowledge of the facts. The case is clearly,
as we think, within the principle acted on by the Supreme
Court of the State in President and Trustees of the Town of
Keilttslurg v. Prick, 34 II. 405. As was very properly said
below by the learned circuit judge, "there must be an end of
these contests and defences some time or other." There must
be a time when the people in their political capacity are concluded by their contracts as much as individuals, and we think
that where the people of a county, at an election held according
to law, authorize their corporate or political representatives
to treat certain outstanding county obligations as "properly
authorized by law" for the purpose of negotiating a gettlement
with the holders, and the settlement which was contemplated
has been made, all contests as to the validity of the obligations
must be considered as ended.
This disposes of all questions as to the excessive issue of
bonds. For i1l the purposes of this case the original bonds

Ot. 1880.]

WILLIAMIS V. CLAFLIN.

must be taken as binding. The issue of the funding bonds did
not increase the aggregate of the indebtedness of the corporation, but only changed its form.
Judgment affirmed.

WILLIAMS v. CLAiLnr.
The ruling in Jerome v. lMcCarter (21 WaL 17), that where, by reason of the
changed circumstances of the case, or of the parties, or of the sureties on a
sup6rsed as bond, so that the security, which at the time it was taken was
sufficient, does not continue to be so, this court will, on proper application,
so order and adjudge as justice may require,-reaffirmed, and applied to this
case.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of South Carolina.
Motion to vacate the supersedeas, or for a new bond.

11.r. George P. Edmuinds and Mr. ames Lowndes in support
of the motion.
MJr. .PhilipPhillips and 3r. Samuel Lord, Jr., in opposition
thereto.
Mi. C]HEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
In Jerome v. McC'arter(21 Wall. 17), we said that if, after
security on an appeal which operated as a supersedeas had
been accepted, the circumstances of the case, or of the parties,
or of the sureties on the bond, had changed, so that the security,
which at the time it was taken was sufficient, did not continue
to be so, we might, on proper application, so adjudge and order
as justice should require. The present appellants are interested
only in preserving their security for a debt of the railroad
company amounting, when the decree was rendered, to about
,152,000.
When they took their appeal, execution of the
whole decree had been stayed by another appeal of the present
appellees, who were the complainants below. Consequently
the amount of security to be given then by these appellants
ws a matter of but little importance comparatively. The
VoL. X11.

48

