REPORTS OF THE DECISIONS
ON THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
OCTOBER TERM, 1880.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. COMMSSIONM-S.
1. Where a railroad company is, for the purpose of constructing and repairing
its road, invested with the powers and privileges and subjected to the obligations contained in certain enumerated sections of the charter of another
company which was exempt from taxation, -rHdd, that the grant does not
include immunity from taxation.
2. Railroad Conpanks v. Gaines (97 U. S. 697) and Morgan v. Louisiana (93 id
217) reaffirmed and applied to this case.

to the Court of Appeals of the State of Maryland.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
ERROR

Mr. TVliam if. Tuck and 31r. Montgomery Blair for the
plaintiff in error.
Mr. Hfenry Aisquith and 3r. Charles J H. G-winn, AttorneyGeneral of Maryland, contra.
MR.CmEF JUSTICE WIE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The Annapolis and Elk Ridge Railroad Company was incorporated by an act of assembly of Maryland, passed March 21,
1837. Sect. 5 of its charter is as follows: "And be it enacted, that the president and.directors of the
said company shall be, and they are hereby, invested with all the
rights and powers necessary to the construction and repair of a
voi, X17

1,

RAILROAD CO. v. COMMISSIONERS.

[Sup. Or.

railroad from the city of Annapolis, to connect with the Baltimore
and Washington railroad, not exceeding sixty feet in width, with
as many sets of tracks as the said president and directors, or a
majority of them, may think necessary; and for this purpose the
said president and directors may have and use all the powers
and privileges, and shall be subject to the same obligations, that
are provided in the fourteenth, fifteenth, sixteenth, seventeenth,
eighteenth, nineteenth, twentieth, twenty-first, twenty-second, and
twenty-third sections of the aforesaid act, entitled 'An Act to
incorporate the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.'
The capital stock of the company was fixed at $450,000, the
State taking $300,000, on which a payment of at least six per
cent per annum was to be guaranteed by the company. None
of the sections of the charter of the Baltimore and Ohio Company referred to, except the eighteenth, have any special bearing on the present case. They related entirely to the powers
and privileges necessary to the construction, operation, and
maintenance of the road. Sect. 18, on which the case depends,
is as follows: "And be it enacted, that the said president and directors, or a
majority of them, shall have power to purchase with the funds of
said company, and place on any railroad constructed by them under
this act, all machines, wagons, vehicles, or carriages of any description whatsoever, which they may deem necessary or proper for
the purposes of transportation on said road, and they shall have
power to charge for tolls upon (and the transportation of persons) goods, produce, merchandise, or property of any kind whatsoever, transported by them along said railway from the city of
Baltimore to the Ohio River, any sum not exceeding the following
rates, viz.: On all goods, produce, merchandise, or property of any
description whatsoever, transported by them from west to east, not
exceeding one cent a ton per mile for toll, and three cents a ton per
mile for transportation; on all goods, produce, merchandise, or property of any description whatsoever, transported by them from east to
west, not exceeding three cents a ton per mile for tolls, and three
cents a ton per mile for transportation, and for the transportation of
passengers not exceeding three cents per mile for each passenger;
and it shall not be lawful for any other company, or any person or
persons whatsoever, to travel upon or use any of the roads of said
vompany, or to transport persons, merchandise, produce, or property

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD CO. v. COMMISSIONERS.

of any description whatsoever, along said roads, or any of them, without the license or permission of the president and directors of said
company; and that the said road or roads, with all their works,
improvements, and profits, and all the machinery of transportation
used on said road, are hereby vested in the said company, incorporated by this act, and their successors, forever; and the shares of
the capital stock of the said company shall be deemed and considered personal estate, and shall be exempt fiom the imposition of
any tax or burthen by the States assenting to this law."
Under the last clause of this section it was held at an early
day, by the Court of Appeals of Maryland, that the property
of the Baltimore and Ohio Company was exempt from taxation. Miayor, &e. of Baltimore v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad
Co., 6 Gill (Md.), 288; State v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Ceo.,
48 Mid. 49. In 1876, the General Assembly passed an act to
provide for the assessment and taxation of railroad companies,
and under that act the commissioners of Anne Arundel County
proceeded to assess the property of the Annapolis and Elk
Ridge Company. The object of the proceeding instituted in
the court below was to vacate this assessment, on the ground
that the property of the company was by its charter exempt
from taxation. The Court of Appeals refused the relief asked,
holding that no such exemption existed. To reverse that judgment the case has been brought here by writ of error.
We think the judgment below was right. Grants of immu
nity from taxation are never to be presumed. On the contrary,
all presumptions are the other way, and, unless an exemption
is clearly established, all property must bear its just share of
the burdens of taxation. These principles are elementary, and
should never be lost sight of in cases of this kind.
The Annapolis and Elk Ridge Company was "invested with
all the rights and powers necessary to the construction and
repair" of its railroad, and for that purpose was to "have and
use all the powers and privileges," and be subject to the obligations, contained in the enumerated sections of the Baltimore
and Ohio charter. Clearly this is not a grant of all the
powers and privileges of the Baltimore and Ohio Company
named in those sections, but only of such as were necessary to
carry into effect the objects for which the new company was

RAILROAD CO. V. CODIIISSIONERS.

[Sup. Ct,

incorporated. Such is the plain import of the language employed. Consequently, only such of the privileges of the old
company could be enjoyed by the new as were appropriate to
the work which the latter was authorized to do.
The power to construct and repair a railroad undoubtedly
implies, in the absence of any restrictions, the power to use the
road when constructed as railroads are ordinarily used. Such
use is in general an incident to the ownership of that kind of
property. The powers and privileges of the Baltimore and
Ohio Company, therefore, which the new company was permitted to "have and use," were such as were necessary to the
construction, repair, and use of its railroad. Exemption from
taxation is not one of these privileges. It is undoubtedly a
privilege, but not necessary either to the construction, repair,
or operation of a railroad. We so held in the case of the
Knoxville and Charleston Railroad Company (Railroad Companies v. Gaines, 97 U. S. 697), where the language of the
charter was much like this. Our conclusion then was that the
grant to one company of the rights and privileges of another,
for the purpose of making and using a railroad, carried with it
only such rights and privileges as were essential to the operations of the company, or, to use the language of Mr. Justice
Field for the court in Morgan v. Louisiana (93 id. 217), the
positive rights and privileges without which the road of the
company could not be successfully worked.
It seems to us that case is conclusive of this. We cannot
see that the claim of the company is at all strengthened by the
fact that the State was to be the largest stockholder, and to
some extent preferred in the division of profits. The corporation was not in that way made a part of the government. It
had certain duties to the public to perform; bat it was, notwithstanding the State's interest in its stock, just as much a
private corporation as any other railroad company is. There
are no more presumptions in its favor than any other railroad
company with the same general powers and privileges can claim.
The public ownership of the stock gave the company no more
rights against the State than a private ownership would.
The State was not, in any respect, "her own grantee." She
granted a charter, and tho~e who claim under her charter,

Oct. 1880.]

HALL V. WISCONSIN.

whether it be herself or some one else, must be content with
what she granted in that way. Ordinarily the same rules of
construction which are applied to other charters will be applied to such as this. The State, as a stockholder, must take
what she, as sovereign, gave to the other stockholders, unless
she, in express terms, provided specially for herself. She did
in this ease make provision for a preferred dividend, but did
not on that account, or any other, relieve the property of the
cumpany from the burdens of taxation, such as were common
to all property holders in the State. She did give the Baltimore and Ohio Company such an exemption, but that privilege
was kept back from this corporation.
We are all clearly of the opinion that the power to tax the
property of the company was never relinquished by the State,
either in express terms or by any fair implication.
Judgment affirmed.

HALL v. WlscosIm.
A contract between a State and a party, whereby he Is to perform certain
duties for a specific period at a stipulated compensation, is within the
protection of the Constitution; and on his executing it he is entitled to
that compensation, although before the expiration of the period the State
repealed the statute pursuant to which the contract was made.

to the Supreme Court of the State of Wisconsin.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
ERROR

Mr. Luther S. 1)ixon for the plaintiff in error.
No counsel appeared for the defendant in error.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Wisconsin.
The case we are called on to consider is thus disclosed in the
record: By an act of the legislature, entitled "An Act to provide for
a geological, mineralogical, and agricultural survey of the
State," approved Marvh ". 1857, James Hall, of the State of
MR. JUSTICE SWAYNE

