Oct. 1880.]

INSURANCE CO. v. BANGS.

INSURANCE CoMPANY v. BANGS.
I Where a suit is brought, not to enforce a claim or lien upon property, but to
can2cl a purely personal contract, the Circuit Court cannot acquire jurisdictiin of the deftndant unless he appear or there be personal service of
process upon him within the district. If he is an infant, the decree against
him is void on its face, the record showing affirmatively the non-service of
proccss, although a guardian ad litkm was appointed for him in his absence.
2 Tbe nemsity for snch service on the infant is not obviated by the State statute requiring his general guardian "to appear for and represent his ward in
all legal suits and proceedings, unless when another person is appointed for
the purpuse as guardian or next friend."

E VROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
1 itrict of Minnesota.
This was an action on two policies of insurance upon the life
of James H. Bangs, each for ,$5,000, issued on the 22d of
November, 1875, by the New York Life Insurance Company,
and made payable to the plaintiff. It was originally commenced in a court of the State of Minnesota, and was removed
to the Circuit Court of the United States on the petition of the
company, averring that he was a citizen of Minnesota, and that
the company was a corporation created under the laws of New
York. To the complaint the company answered, and, in addition to a general denial of its allegations, set up that the
ins-ured had committed suicide by voluntarily taking poison
with the intention of producing death; and when the policies
u ere applied for and obtained, he was represented to the company to be in sound health, correct in habits, to have every
prospect of a long life, and to be a person who fully intended
to live as long as possible in the course of nature; that the
c,,mptny relied upon these representations, and believed them
tii be true, and would not otherwise have accepted the risks
and issued the policies, or either of them ; but that, neverthel.st, the representations were false and fraudulent, and, at the
time they were made and the policies applied for and obtained,
the insured intended to take his life within a short period, and
thereby to defraud the company out of the amount of insurance, and that in execution of this fraudulent purpose lie took
his life. The action was commenced in June, 1876, and in

INSURANCE

Co. v.

BANGS.

[Sup. Ot,

July following the order for its removal was made; but the
proceedings were not, in fact, transferred until the subsequent
December, when the answer was filed. Nothing further was
done in the case until June, 1877, when the company obtained
leave to file a supplemental answer setting up a decree which,
during that month, it had recovered against the plaintiff in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Michigan.
It appears that in March, 1876, the company had commenced
a suit in equity, in that court, against the plaintiff here and his
mother, to obtain a cancellation of the policies of insurance and
an injunction against instituting or prosecuting any action at
law upon them. The bill averred - what is substantially
stated in the answer above, but with much greater detailthat the insured obtained the policies with the intention, at the
time, of taking his life soon afterwards, and thereby defrauding
the company out of the amount of the insurance, and that he
carried out this intention by taking poison, which caused his
death. The supplemental answer, after setting forth the institution of the suit, averred that subpenas were issued and
served upon the defendants; that Edson C. Bangs, the son of
the insured, to whom the policies were payable, being a minor,
one Henry A. Harmon was appointed by the court guardian
ad litem for him; that by this guardian he filed an answer de
nying that the death of the insured was caused by poison, (r
that the policies were obtained for the purpose of defrauding
the company, or that death was effected in pursuance of any
such fraudulent design, and all allegations of fraud in the bill;
that afterwards proofs were taken and a decree was rendered
therein adjudging the policies to be void and ordering their
cancellation, and perpetually enjoining the defendants from
instituting and carrying on any action at law upon them.
An exemplified copy of the record was annexed to and made
part of the supplemental answer. To this answer the plaintiff
demurred, on the ground, among other things, that the proceedings of the Circuit Court of the United States were void, in
that it appeared from the record that the court never had juris.
diction of the person of Edson C. Bangs, the plaintiff here, and
no jurisdiction in equity over the action under the circumstances mentioned. The demurrer was sustained, and subse-

O0t. 1880.]

INSURANCE CO. V. BANGS.

quently the defendant obtained leave to withdraw the original
answer, so as to rest its defence upon the supplemental answer
and the matters therein pleaded. Judgment was accordingly
rendered for the plaintiff for the amount claimed, and to review
that judgment the case is brought to this court on writ of
error.
The record of the equity suit in Michigan showed on its face
that the subpoena issued in it was never personally served upon
the defendant, Edson C. Bangs, the plaintiff in this action;
that it was only served on his general guardian after he, Bangs,
had left the State and gone to Minnesota to reside; that upon
the affidavit of the complainant's solicitor, stating that the sublena and injunction in the case had been a week in the hands
of the marshal, who reported that he could not find the defend
ants in his district, that they had locked up the house where
they resided and had temporarily left the State, and that he
was unable to find any one in charge of the house, the court
made an order declaring that the service of the subpoena and
injunction on the general guardian was a good service upon the
infant; that afterwards the general guardian was appointed
guardian ad Utem for him, but not making any appearance for
hla, and not intending to submit the rights of the infant to the
adjudication of the court, his appointment was revoked, and
Henry A. Harmon was substituted as such guardian ad litem
in his place, and that he subsequently acted in the case in that
capacity for the infant.
31'e. Herbert L. Baker and Mr. William A. M aury for the
plaintiff in error.
3. Mark S. Brewer, eontra.
Mr. JUSTICE FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
As seen from the statement of the case, the only matter for
our consideration relates to the validity of the decree of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Michigan,
and that depends upon the solution of the question whether the
court had jurisdiction of the person of the infant, Edson C.
Bangs, the plaintiff here, and of the subject-matter of the suit
upon which it acted.

INSURANCE

Co. v. BANGS.

[Sup. CL

From the view we take of the case, it will only be necessary
to examine the proceedings to see whether the infant was ever
brought before the court so as to justify the appointment of a
guardian ad litem for him. The general authority of courts of
equity .over the persons and estates of infants, upon which
counsel have so much dwelt, is not questioned. It may be
exerted, upon proper application, for the protection of both.
This jurisdiction in the English courts of chancery'is supposed
to have originated in the prerogative of the crown, arising from
its general duty as parens patrie to protect persons who have
no other rightful protector. But partaking, says Story, as the
prerogative does, more of the nature of a judicial administration of rights and duties in foro conseientice than of a strict executive authority, it was very naturally exercised by the Court
of Chancery as a branch of its original general jurisdiction.
"Accordingly," he adds, "the doctrine now commonly maintained is that the general superintendence and protective jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery over the persons and property
of infants is a delegation of the rights and duty of the crown;
that it belonged to that court, and was exercised by it from its
first establishment; and that this general jurisdiction was not
even suspended by the statute of Henry VIII., erecting the
court of wards and liveries." The jurisdiction possessed by
the English courts of chancery from this supposed delegation of
the authority of the crown as Parens patrice is more frequently
exercised in this country by the courts of the States than by
the courts of the United States. It is the State and not the
Federal government, except in the Territories and the District
of Columbia, which stands, with reference to the persons and
property of infants, in the situation of parenspatrice. Accordingly provision is made by law in all the States for the appointment of such guardians, whose duties and powers are carefully
defined. The authority of the Federal courts can only be invoked within the limits of a State for such an appointment
where property of the infant is involved in legal proceedings
before them, and needs the care and supervision of an officer of
that kind. In such a case, to preserve the property from destruction or waste, the Federal courts may appoint a guardian
to take care of it pending the proceedings. And those courta

Oct. 1880.]

INSURANCE Co. v. MhNGS.

will always see that a proper guardian ad litem has charge of
the infant's interests where his property is involved in proceedings before them. This is the extent of their authority.
Nothing is gained, therefore, in this case by reference to the
general power of courts of equity over the persons and property
of infants. The infant Bangs possessed no property in Michigan when the suit in equity was commenced against him.
That suit- did not concern any property, real or personal. It
was brought to cancel a contract made with his father, and any
decree respecting it would necessarily have been coram non
Pdol,, unless the parties interested were before the court upon
the service of a subpoena or their voluntary appearance. The
infant, being absent from the State, could not be personally
served.
The statute of Michigan requiring the general guardian of an
i, fant to "appear for and represent his ward in all legal suits
a.nd proceedings unless when another person is appointed for
the purpose as guardian or next friend" does not change the
,tecessity of service of process upon the defendants in a case
Ln-4ore a court of the United States where a personal contract
alrie is involved. It may be otherwise in the State courts; it
nmy be that, by their practice, the service of process upon the
geeral guardian, or his appearance without service, is deemed
,ufiicient for their jurisdiction. We believe that in some States
suh is the fact; but the State law cannot determine for the
Federal courts what shall be deemed sufficient service of process
or sufficient appearance of parties. Substituted service, by publication, against non-resident or absent parties, allowed in some
States in purely personal actions, is not permitted in the Federal courts. Such service can only be resorted to where some
claim or lien upon real or personal property is sought to be
enforced, and the decision of the court will then only affect
property of the party within the district. Rev. Stat., sect. 738.
In all cases brought to enforce or cancel personal contracts,
or to recover damages for their violation, the statute requires a
personal service of process upon the defendants, or their voluntary appearance. And the equity rules qualify the statute only
mo far as to allow, in cases of husband and wife, a copy of tb,
subpcena to be delivered to the husband, and in other case! a

INSURANCE

Co. v.

BANGS.

['Sup. 0 .

copy to be left at the dwelling-house, or usual place of abode of
the defendant, with some person who is a member of or resident
in the family. In either mode, the defendant is to be served
within the district, and until such service or his appearance,
the court has no jurisdiction to proceed or to render a decret
affecting his rights or interest. There being here no property
of the infant defendant within the district of Michigan, which
the court could lay hold of, - and he being absent from it, there was no foundation laid for any progress by the court in
the case. It never acquired jurisdiction over the infant; it
could, therefore, appoint no guardian ad litem for him, and the
decree rendered against him was ineffectual for any purpose.
Our attention has been called to several cases of the State
courts, in which it has been held that a decree or judgment
could not be collaterally attacked, though rendered in a case
where a guardian ad litem had been appointed without service
of process on the infant. Such are the cases of Preston v.
Dunn, 25 Ala. 507; Robb v. Lessee of Irwin, 15 Ohio, 689;
and Gronfier v. Puymirol, 19 Cal. 629. All of them are illustrative of the position we have stated; they all relate to the
interest of the infant in real property in the State.
In Preston v. Dann, the bill was filed by an infant, suing by
his next friend, to redeem a tract of land which had once belonged to his father, who had mortgaged it, and which had
been sold under judicial decree in a foreclosure suit and purchased by the defendant. The father having died pending the
foreclosure suit, and a posthumous child to him having been
born, a bill of revivor was filed against the administrator and
administratrix of his estate, and his infant son. A subpcena
was served on the adult defendants, and a guardian ad litem was
appointed by the court for the infant, who appeared for him.
It was held by the Supreme Court of Alabama that the decree
rendered upon such appearance was irregular, but not void, and
that it could not be attacked collaterally.
In Robb v. Lessee of Irwin, it appeared that a guardian ad
Uitem for infant heirs had been appointed in a proceeding for
the sale of certain real property in which they were interested.
In an action of ejectment subsequently brought by the heirs, it
was held by the Supreme Court of Ohio that the proceeding

Oct. 1880.]

INSURANCE

Co.

v. BANGS.

was not vitiated by the appointment of the guardian ad litem,
without previous service of process on tLe infant.
In Gronfier v. Paygndol, a general guardian of the estate of
non-resident infants had been appointed by the Probate Court
upon the representation that they were interested in certain
real property in the State. In proceedings for a sale of such
property, the general guardian appeared for the infants without
being appointed guardian ad litem for them, and it was held by
the Supreme Court of California, that the court had jurisdiction to order the sale and that it passed a good title; and that
under the practice of the State a general guardian could appear
in legal proceedings for his ward when a guardian ad litem was
not appointed by the court.
There is nothing in these cases which at all conflicts with the
views we have expressed as to the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court for the District of Michigan in appointing a guardian ad
litnz for a non-resident or absent infant, in a case which did not
touch any property in the district, but was brought to cancel a
personal contract.
There are, also, some cases in the State courts, in which a
judgment upon a personal demand has been sustained against
collateral attack, though rendered in an action where a guardian ad litem had been appointed without previous service of
process upon the infant; but they are exceptional, and there
has generally been in them some circumstance which rendered
any disturbance of the judgment likely to lead to great hardship and injustice. Such is the case of Bustard v. Gates and
Wife, 4 Dana (Ky.), 429. There an ejeetment was brought for
land more than twenty years after it had been sold, and which
during the interval had greatly increased in value. But in
none of the cases to which our attention has been called has a
judgment been upheld where a guardian ad litem had been
appointed for a non-resident infant against whom a purely personal demand was prosecuted. If such a case exists, the judgment in it can have no greater force than one rendered for a
personal demand against a non-resident upon any other form oi
constructive service; and that constructive service will not
give jurisdiction in such cases is the established doctrine of
this eourt. P ,wge," v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714.
Judgment affirmed

