WEITZEL V. RABE.

[Sup. Ct.

WFTZEL v. RABE.
While a distillery, the capacity of which was estimated at 416.90 bushels of
grain each twenty-four hours, was in full operation, A., the owner thereof,
made application, under sect. 3311, Rev. Stat., to have the capacity reduced
to 207.45 bushels, by closing six tubs. According to the practice prevailing
in that collection district, two tubs were closed a day, commencing May 2,
1876. On May 2 and 3 A. mashed 207.45 bushels, but distilled beer from
415.96 bushels, which lie had mashed April 30 and May 1. Thereafter lie
used 207.45 bushels daily. All the spirits produced by him during May were
reported by him, and the tax thereon duly paid. Held, 1. That the producing capacity of the distillery was not in law reduced to 207.45 bushels per
day until May 4. 2. That for tie beer distilled from the 415.96 bushels of
grain mashed April 30 and May 1 A. was not liable to be taxed as for material used by him in excess of the producing capacity of his distillery on
May 2 and 3.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Ohio.
This was an action brought by Rabe against Weitzel, collector of internal revenue for the first collection district of
Ohio. He alleges that on the sixteenth day of August, 1876,
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue illegally and wrongfully
assessed against him as distiller, engaged in the business of
distilling in that district, an internal revenue tax of $754.63,
as upon the product in spirits of an alleged excess of material
used for the production of spirits over and above the producing capacity of his distillery, in the month of May, 1876,
and caused the same to be forwarded and delivered to Weitzel
for collection; that it is not true that there existed any such
excess of material used over the actual and lawful producing
capacity of his distillery; that he protested against the assesmment to Weitzel, who, under authority of his office, demanded
the tax, which the plaintiff, to avoid distraint and seizure of his
property, paid, under protest, on the 25th of April, 1877; and
that on the 29th of May, 1877, he made his application to the
Commissioner to refund and repay to him the sum so paid,
which was rejected.
The plaintiff demanded judgment for that amount.
The defendant, in his answer, traversed the allegation of the

Oct. 1880.]

WEITZEL V. RABE.

plaintiff's petition that the assessment was oppressive and
wrongful. There was a judgment for the plaintiff, and the
defendant sued out this writ.
It appears that previous to May 2, 1876, the capacity of the
distillery was fixed by the survey at 415.96 bushels of grain
each twenty-four hours, the fermenting period being forty-eight
hours; that on that day the plaintiff went to the collector's
office and notified the deputy in charge of distilleries that he
desired to reduce the capacity to 207.45 bushels by closing six
fermenting tubs then in use; that he then signed three blank
notices given him by said deputy, leaving them with said
deputy, who filled up and filed the same. The notices when
filed stated that he desired to reduce his capacity from 415.96
to 846.29 bushels by closing tubs Nos. 3 and 8, having a capacity of 9,406 gallons, on and after May 2, 1876; from 346.29
to 276.03 bushels, by closing tubs Nos. 12 and 15, capacity
9,485 gallons, on and after May 3; and from 276.03 to 207.45
bushels, by closing tubs Nos. 10 and 14, capacity 9,258 gallons,
on and after May 4, 1876. The deputy thereupon closed and
sealed the six tubs successively on the second, third,-and fourth
days of that month, in accordance with the notices.
On the 2d and 3d of May the plaintiff mashed but 207.45
bushels of grain, but distilled the beer from 415.96 bushels of
grain mashed upon the 80th of April and 1st of May; on each
remaining day of the month he used the exact amount of grain
fixed by the capacity. On the receipt of his return, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue made an assessment against him
for an excess of grain used during the second and third days of
the month of May over and above the reduced capacity specified in the notices; to wit, in excess of 346.29 bushels on the
second, and 276.03 bushels on the third. This assessment was
paid to the defendant as collector of internal revenue.
The mode of reducing capacity by giving three notices and
closing tubs on successive days after they had remained empty
twenty-four hours was the uniform practice in that collection
district, until changed in accordance with circular No. 38, from
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, dated Feb. 20, 1877,
and the distiller desiring to reduce capacity was required by
the collector to give the three notices.

WEITZEL V. RABE.

[Sup. 6%.

The plaintiff reported all spirits produced by him during
May, 1876, and paid tax thereon according to law.
The court charged the jury that the producing capacity of
the distillery was not in law reduced until the fourth day of
May; that it continued for the second and third days of May
to be 415.96 bushels, and this being the amount of grain in
fact used, there was no use of grain by the distiller in excess
of the capacity of his distillery; and that the assessment was
therefore illegal.
The defendant asked the court to instruct as follows :When the distiller gave notice in the form prescribed that
he desired to reduce capacity on and after a day specified in
the notice by closing a designated fermenting tub, and such
tub was thereupon closed by the deputy collector in accordance with the notice, the legal effect was to reduce the capacity of the distillery on and after that day; .and if the distiller
on or after that day used grain in excess of the reduced capacity, although mashed before the reduction, the Commissioner
was authorized by law to make an assessment for the excess,
and the distiller who pays it cannot recover it from the collector.
Which charge was refused. To the charge as given and to
that refused the defendant excepted, and he assigns for error
the action of the court in that regard.
Mr. Assistant Attorney- General Smith for the plaintiff in
error.
No counsel appeared for the defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
We think the court below was right in holding that the pro
ducing capacity of the distillery was not in law reduced so as
to make the distiller liable for material used in excess of the
reduced capacity, until May 4. The original capacity, as
estimated according to law, was 416.90 bushels of grain each
twenty-four hours, but the spirits could not be properly developed and separated until the expiration of forty-eight houre
from the time the grain was put into the mash,- that being
the fermenting period allowed. According to the rulings o

Oct. 1880.j

WEITZEL V. RABE.

the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, grain has been used
when the spirits have been properly developed and separated
by distillation; and in determining, under the requirements of
sect. 3309 of the Revised Statutes, whether a distiller has ac.
counted for all grain used by him in a month, the practice has
been to take the quantity of mash and beer on hand at the
beginning of the month, add to it the quantity put into mash
during the month, and from the total deduct the quantity
of mash and beer on hand at the end of the month. The
remainder is the quantity used. Under the law the distiller
must pay a tax equal to eighty per cent of his estimated producing capacity, whether the spirits are actually produced or
not. Consequently, to save himself from taxation beyond his
actual production, he must keep his distillery running all the
time within twenty per cent of its full capacity.
The application in this case, under sect. 3311 of the Revised
Statutes, for a reduction of capacity, was made when the distillery was in full operation, and when mash or beer equal to
the full producing capacity was in the process of distillation.
The spirits could not be properly developed and separated from
this material until the expiration of forty-eight hours from that
time. This both the government officers and the distiller knew.
Under these circumstances, the application for the reduction
4 capacity was evidently made with the intention of having
the reduced capacity date from the time when it could go into
effect without subjecting the distiller to a tax on excess of
material used, by reason of the further distillation of what was
then in mash. To accomplish this purpose a practice had grown
up in the collection district where this distillery was situated
to give three notices and close tubs on successive days after
they had remained empty twenty-four hours. Forms seem to
have been prepared by the revenue officers for such notices;
and when the application for reduction was made in this case,
the notices were signed in blank and left with the collector to
be filled up by him in a way that would, according to the prac
tice which prevailed, bring about the reduction at the proper
time. The reduction was made. The distiller reported his
actual product, and paid the taxes thereon in full. The amount
now sued for was evidently paid on account of a constructive

WEBBER V. VIRGINIA.

[Sup. Ct.

and not an actual use of material in excess of capacity. There
is no pretence of bad faith. The distiller did what was required
of him to get a reduction of capacity while his distillery was
in operation. Under such circumstances he was entitled to
have the capacity estimated while the reduction was going
on, in such a way as not to charge him with material in mash
when the change was applied for, as material used in excess of
capacityj.
Judgment affirmed.
NOTE. I WeiLtel v. Kayser and Weitel v. Caldwell, error to the same court
and submitted at the same time as the preceding case, MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITn
remarked that they were in all material respects like it, and, upon its authority,
the judgments were affirmed.

WEBBER V. VIRGINIA.
1. Letters-patent granted by the United States do not exclude from the operation of the tax or license law of a State the tangible property in which the
invention or discovery is embodied.
2. A statute of Virginia requires that the agent for the sale of articles manufactured in other States must first obtain a license, for which he is required
to pay a specific tax for each county in which he sells or offers to sell
them, while the agent for the sale of articles manufactured in that State, if
acting for the manufacturer, is not required to obtain a license or pay any
license tax. Held, that the statute is in conflict with the commerce clause
of the Constitution of the United States, and void.
3. Commerce among the States is not free whenever a commodity is, by reason of its foreign growth or manufacture, subjected by State legislation to
discriminating regulations or burdens.
4. Welton v. State of Missouri (91 U. S. 275) and County of Mobile v. Kimball (102
id. 691) cited and approved.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Appeals for the State of
Virginia.
This case comes before this court on a writ of error to the
Sulteme Court of Appeals of the State of Virginia, and arose
in this way: In May, 1880, the plaintiff in error, J. T. Webber, was indicted in the County Court of Henrico County, in
that State, for unlawfully selling and offering for sale in that

