00t. 1880.]

INSURANCE

CO. V. STINSON.

a consideration of the highest value, and from motives of the
sCA11dest policy is upheld with a steady resolution." 7 Pet.
348, 393.
The same doctrine is asserted by the Supreme Court of Alabarnt, in which State the parties to the deed of settlement
reside and in which it was executed. Andrews v. Jones, 10
Ala. 400.
According to these authorities there can be no question of
the validity of the settlement in this case. There is an entire
absence of elements which would vitiate even an ordinary
transaction of sale where, if set aside, the parties may be
placed in their former positions. And an ante-nuptial settlement, though made with a fraudulent design by the settler,
should not be annulled without the clearest proof of the wife's
participafion in the intended fraud, for upon its annulment
there can follow no dissolution of the marriage, which was the
consideration of the settlement.
It follows that the decree of the court below must be reversed, and the cause remanded with directions to dismiss the
bill of complaint; and it is
So ordered.

INSURANCE

COMPANY V. STINSON.

1 The owner of the equity of redemption has an insurable interest equal to the
value of the buildings on the land.
2. A party having a mechanic's lien on buildings by him erected on land then
covered by mortgage has an insurable interest, limited only by their value
and the amount of his claim. His discontinuance of his suit to enforce
the lien after their destruction is not matter of defence to his action on
the policy.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Massachusetts.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Arf. Charles T. Russell and rf. Charles T. Russell, Jr., for
the plaintiff in error.
[1r. Robert 1). ,S'mth, eontra.

INSURANCE

CO. V. NTINSON.

[Sup. Gt.

MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action on a policy of insurance against loss or
damage by fire. Stinson, the plaintiff below, had a contract to
build a hotel to be called the Webster House, at Marshfield,
Plymouth County, Massachusetts, for the sum of $25,000, and
had nearly completed it; but, failing to get his payments from
the owner, he stopped work and took the necessary steps for
securing a mechanic's lien on the building. For this purpose
he filed the required statement with the town clerk, and commenced an action to enforce his lien within the period prescribed by law. Whilst that action was pending, in July, 1875,
he procured the policy in question from the plaintiffs in error,
the defendants below, insuring him for three months against
loss or damage by fire to the amount of $5,000 on the building,
-the policy stating his interest to be that of contractor and
builder. The loss occurred during the continuance of the
policy, and due notice was given. After the fire the plaintiff
did not further prosecute his action to enforce the lien; but
commenced the present action for the amount of his insurance.
When the building contract was entered into, and until the
loss occurred, the property on which the building was erected
was subject to a mortgage for a debt of $17,000, being the
purchase-money which the owner had agreed to pay to the
former owner; and which is conceded to have been a lien on
the whole property prior to that of the plaintiff. Two defences
were made by the insurance company to the action: first, the
failure of the plaintiff to prosecute his suit for enforcing his
lien; secondly, want of insurable interest, from the alleged fact
that the property, at the time of the loss, was not worth more
than the amount of the prior mortgage. The court overruled
these defences, and charged the jury substantially as follows,
namely: that if the plaintiff had a valid builder's lien when
the policy was effected, which could have been enforced by the
decree of the appropriate court against the equity of redemption of the property, and if it was a valid and subsisting lien
at the time of the loss, it was immaterial whether he did or
did not subsequently perform those acts, the non-performance of which as conditions subsequent might have dissolved
the lien.

O0t. 1880.]

INSURANCE CO. V. STINSON.

The court further instructed the jury in substance that if
the plaintiff had such builder's lien when the policy was effected, which could have been enforced by the decree of the
appropriate court, and by virtue of which he could have recovered the equity of redemption on that property, then he
was entitled to recover, without regard to the question what
his equity of redemption might or might not have realized at
an auction sale; that if a party has a valid and subsisting
second security for a given amount, and he enters into a contract of indemnity against the destruction of that security, and
a loss by fire occurs, both parties having full knowledge of the
state of the property and the title when the contract is entered into, such insurance would cover that second security,
although by the subsequent course of events the older and
prior security might have swept away the value of the second;
and that if the jury found in -this case that this plaintiff had a
valid claim for a given amount subsisting at the time of the
I,,4s, and which he had done everything that was required of
him to enforce up to the time of the loss, and that it was such
a claim, for instance, as he could have recovered a judgment
for $5,000 or t$6,000 or $8,000, and a judgment against that
equity of redemption on that property, that was, for the purposes of this trial, an insurable interest, and an interest which
lie had on that property, whether by any course of events that
property might have been by subsequent events more or less
affected ; and for the purposes of this trial the court instructed
the jury to so consider it.
To this charge, and to the refusal to give instructions to the
contrary, the defendants took a bill of exceptions.
We think that the instructions were correct. As to the
first point, based on the abandonment by the plaintiff, after
the destruction of the building, of the proceedings to enforce
his lien, it is apparent from the evidence adduced by the defendants themselves that it could not have injured them. But,
aside from this consideration, if the .plaintiff had an insurable
interest at the time of issuing the policy and at the time of the
loss, equal to the amount insured, he had a complete and absolute cause of action against the defendants; and it was no
concern of theirs whether he farther prosecuted his lien or not,

iNSURANCE CO. V. STINSON.

[Sup. Ot.

unless they desired to be subrogated to his rights, and gave him
notice to that effect. Whether, if they had done this, and had
offered to indemnify him against all costs and expenses, a refusal on his part to continue the proceedings would have been
a defence to this action, it is unnecessary to inquire. No such
course was taken by the defendants. We may remark, however, that where a creditor effects insurance on property mortgaged or pledged to him as security for the payment of his
debt, the insurers do not become sureties of the debt, nor do
they acquire all the rights of such sureties. They are insurers
of the particular property only, and so long as that property is
liable for the debt, so long its destruction by fire would be a
loss to the creditor within the terms of the policy. A surety
of the debt might complain if the creditor should surrender to
the debtor collateral securities ; but an insurer of property for
the benefit of the mortgagee would have no just ground of complaint. True, after a loss has occurred and the insurance has
been paid, sufficient to discharge the debt, the insurers may be
entitled to be subrogated to the rights of the creditor against
the debtor, and to any collateral securities which the creditor
may then hold and which are primarily liable for the debt
before the insurers. But even then we do not think that the
creditor is bound to take any active steps to realize the fruits
of a collateral, or to keep it from expiring, unless the insurance be first paid and notice be given to him of a desire on the
part of the insurers to be subrogated to his rights, with a tender
of indemnity against expenses. We are aware that views somewhat differing from these have been held by respectable authority ; but we think without any sound reason. See May on
Insurance, sect. 457 ; Insurance ( "ompanyv. Woodruff, 2 Dutch.
(N. J.) 541. To impose such restrictions and obligations upon
the creditor would be to add to the contract of insurance conditions never contemplated by the parties, making of it a mere
shadow of security, and increasing the avenues of escape from
obligation to pay, already too numerous and oppressive. When
a building is insured in tle interest of a mortgagee, the insurance company does not inquire what other collaterals he holds,
and never reduces its premium on any such consideration.
As to the other tuestion, relating to the insurable interest of

Oct. 1880.]

INSURANCE CO. V. STINSON

the plaintiff, we think that the charge given was equally free
from exception. There is no doubt that the owner of the
property had an insurable interest to the extent of the value
of the building notwithstanding the existence of a mortgage
on the property of sufficient amount to absorb it. Leading authorities on the point may be found cited in May on Insurance,
sects. 81, 82. The remarks of Mr. Chief Justice Marshall, in
delivering the opinion of the court in (olumbian Insuranee Co.
v. Lawrence (2 Pet. 25), are apposite and illustrative. The
assured in that case, though in possession, had only a contract
for a purchase of the property, subject to a condition which
had not been complied with, but of which the vendor had
taken no advantage at the time of effecting the insurance, or
at the time of the loss. The Chief Justice says: "That an
equitable interest may be insured is admitted. We can perceive no reason which excludes an interest held under an
executory contract. While the contract subsists, the person
claiming under it has undoubtedly a substantial interest in the
property. If it be destroyed, the loss in contemplation of law
is his. If the purchase-money be paid, it is his in fact. If he
owes the purchase-money, the property is its equivalent, and is
still valuable to him. The embarrassment of his affairs may
be such that his debts may absorb all his property; but this
circumstance has never been considered as proving a want of
interest in it. The destruction of the property is a real loss to
the person in possession, who claims title under an executory
contract, and the contingency that his title may be defeated by
subsequent events does not prevent this loss."
The principle asserted in these remarks, as well as the reason of the thing, leads to the conclusion, that the owner of an
equity of redemption has an insurable interest equal to the
value of the insurable property embraced therein, whether he
is personally liable for the mortgage debt or not. His interest
arises from his ownership, carrying with it the incidental right
of redeeming the property from the incumbrances on it. If he
is also personally liable for such incumbrances, it only makes
his interest more direct and exacting.
Such being the insurable interest of the owner of the equity
of redemption, it follows that one who has a mechanic's hen

FOLGER V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. ,Ct.

an the property by virtue of a contract with such owner, has
an equal insurable interest, limited only by the value of the
property and the amount of his claim. In the present case it
is admitted that the value of the building insured exceeded the
amount of the plaintiff's claim; and that the latter was equal
to the amount insured. The insurable interest of the lienholder
arises from the nature of the lien, which is a jus ad rem. All
the owner's rights in the property are potentially his. They are
under hypothecation to him for his security, and he can reduce
them to possession if the debt be not paid. He is, therefore,
directly interested in the property to the extent of his demand,
whatever other security he may hold; and is entitled to insure
to that extent; and, if a loss occurs, to recover the full amount
of his insurance, or so much thereof as may be necessary to
satisfy his debt.
We think that there is no error in the record.
Judgment affirmed

FOLGER v. UNITED STATES.
An assistant treasurer of the United States to whom, without prepayment there.
for, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue furnishes for sale and distribution
sealed packages of adhesive stamps, is not entitled to commissions or extra
compensation for selling them.

from the Court of Claims.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
APPEAL

Mr. Walter H. Coleman and 211r. George F. Comstock for the
appellant.
The Solicitor-General, contra.
MRt. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

In the month of June, 1866, some correspondence passed bett%een Van Dyck, then assistant treasurer of the United States
d
ihe city of New York, and the Commissioner of Internal Revene,e as to whether the former should be required, in addition
in his ordinary duties, to assist in the distribution of adhesive

