HARTER V. KERNOCHAN.

[Sup. Ct.

non-negotiable warrants were issued, by one of its muncil
bodies.
It is ordered to be certified that the plea and the facts cartifled to us constitute a good defence.
cudgment reverced.

HARTER V. KEBROCHAN.
1. A townshi I in Illinois and a taxpayer thereof, on behalf of himself and other
resident taxpayers, filed their bill in a court of that State against certain
State, county, and township officers and the "unknown owners and holders"
of certain township bonds, each payable in the sum of $1,000. The bill
prayed for an injunction to restrain the levy and collection of a tax to pay
the principal of the bonds or any interest thereon. A., a citizen of another
State, was the owner of all of them. Held, that he was entitled, under the
act of March 3, 1875, c. 137 (18 Stat., pt. 3, p. 470), to remove the suit to
the Circuit Court of the United States.
2. A decree was rendered by the State court against A. by default, although
he was not summoned, nor served with a copy of the bill or any notice of
the pendency of the suit. On his application within the prescribed period
the decree was set aside, and he thereupon filed his petition to remove the
cause. Hedd, that it was filed in due time.
3. Neither the act of the legislature of Illinois, entitled "An Act to incorporate the Illinois Southeastern Railway Company," approved Feb. 25,
1867, authorizing townships to make donations to that company, nor the
amendatory act of Feb. 24, 1869, authorizing the issue of township bonds,
for the amount so donated, is in conffict with the Constitution of the
State.
4. The bonds of the township of Harter, dated April 1, 1880, signed by the supervisor and countersigned by the clerk of the township, reciting that they
are issued in pursuance of the authority conferred by those acts and an
election of the legal voters of the township, held on the tenth day of November, 1868, under their provisions, are valid obligations of the township,
although the donation was voted to the Illinois Southeastern Railway
Company, and they were delivered to a corporation formed, pursuant to
law, by the consolidation of that company with another.
5. As the records of the township show that the bonds were directed to be
issued and delivered to the new company, the township is, as against a
bonaacfde holder of them for value, estopped from denying their validity.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Oct. 1880.]

HARTER v. KERNOCHAN.

ir. TV. J. Henry'for the appellant.
J1ir. George A. Sanders, contra.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit involves the liability of the township of Harter, in
the county of Clay, State of Illinois, upon certain bonds, signed
by its supervisor, countersigned by its clerk, and issued, in its
name, under date of April 1, 1870. They were each made
payable in the sum of $1,000 to the Illinois Southeastern Railway Company or bearer, thirty years after date, with interest
at the rate of ten per cent per annum; the right, however,
being reserved to the township to make payment at any time
after five years from date of issue. Each recites that it is one
of a series "issued by said township to aid in the construction of
the Illinois Southeastern Railway, in pursuance of the authority conferred by an act of the General Assembly of the State
of Illinois, entitled ' An Act to incorporate the Illinois Southeastern Railway Company, approved Feb. 25, 1867,' and an act
amendatory thereof, approved Feb. 24, 1869, and an election
of the legal voters of the aforesaid township, held on the tenth
day of November, 1868, under the provisions of said act."
Upon each bond also appears the certificate of the State auditor,
stating that it had been registered in his office, pursuant to the
provisions of the act entitled "An Act to fund and provide for
paying the railroad debts of counties, townships, cities, and
towns," in force April 16, 1869.
The bill was filed in the year 1877, in the Circuit Court for
Clay County, by the township of Harter and two of its resident
taxpayers, - the latter suing in behalf of themselves and all
other taxpayers of the township, - against the State treasurer
and auditor, the county clerk and treasurer, the township collector, supervisor, and clerk, and two justices of the township;
and also against the "unknown owners and holders" of such
bonds with their coupons, who are alleged to be residents and
citizens of States other than Illinois. It proceeded upon the I
ground that the bonds were issued without authority of law,
and, consequently, were not binding upon the township. The
prayer of the bill was that such a decree, with perpetual injunction, be rendered as would prevent the State, county, and town-

HARTER V. KERNOCHAN.

[Sup. Ct.

ship officers from taking any steps towards the assessment and
collection of taxes to meet the bonds or any instalment of interest thereon; that the holders and owners of the bonds and
coupons, their agents and attorneys, be required to bring the
same into court for cancellation; and that the State and county
treasurers be ordered to pay over to the township any money
in their hands which had been raised by taxation for the
payment of the bonds or their coupons. The officers who
were sured, although duly served with process, made no defence. The unknown holders and owners of the bonds and
coupons were proceeded against by publication in the manner authorized by the State law. A final decree was entered
on the first day of May, 1879, giving relief to the full extent
prayed for.
On the seventeenth day of April, 1880, Kernochan, the
owner of all the bonds and coupons issued by, the township, -having, it is conceded, acquired them before due, paying value therefor, and without notice of any defence except
that appearing in the law and upon the face of the bonds themselves, - presented to trie State court a petition stating that he
had neither been summoned nor served with a copy of the bill,
nor received any notice of the pendency of the suit. Upon
that petition he based a motion to redocket the cause and open
the decree, to the end that he might be heard touching the
matters of such suit. His application was granted, and upon
the same day he filed another petition, accompanied by a bond
in the required form, asking the removal of the cause to the
Circuit Court of the United States, upon the ground that the
controversy was between citizens of different States, and that
he was then, as well as at the commencement of the suit, a citizen of, Massachusetts, while the complainants, during the same
period, were citizens of Illinois.
The State court approved the bond and ordered the cause
to be certified to the Federal court, with all the papers pertaining thereto.
In the Circuit Court the complainants entered a motion to
remand the cause to the State court, which was overruled.
Kernochan answered to the merits, and to that answer a genBral replication was filed. Upon final hearing, the injunction

Oct. 1880.]

HARTER V. KERN0CUAN.

granted by the State court was dissolved and the bill dismissed. The township appealed.
Preliminary to any consideration of the questions involving
the validity of the bonds, as obligations of the township, it is
proper that we should notice, briefly, some remarks made by
counsel for the appellant, in reference as well to the proceedings
in the State court after the appearance of Kernoehan, as to the
removal of the suit into the Federal court.
We perceive nothing irregular or erroneous in the action of
the State court, whereby the cause was redocketed and the
decree opened. By the statutes of the State, when a final
decree is entered against a defendant who has not been summoned, or served with a copy of the bill, or received the notice
required to be sent to him by mail, and such person, his heirs,
devises, executors, administrators, or other legal representatives, as the case may require, shall, within one year after
notice in writing is given him of such decree, or, in the absence
of such notice, within three years after such decree, appear in
open court and petition to be heard touching the matters of
such decree, and shall pay such costs as the court shall deem
reasonable in that behalf, "the person so petitioning may appear
and answer the complainant's bill; and thereupon such proceedings shall be had as if the defendants had appeared in due
season and no decree had been made. And if it shall appear
upon the hearing that such decree ought not to have been made
against such defendant, the same may be set aside, altered, or
amended, as shall appear just; otherwise, the same shall be
ordered to stand confirmed against said defendant." Hurd's
Stat. Ill., 1880, p. 189, sect. 19. Kernochan appeared within
one year after the decree had been passed. He was, therefore,
entitled, according to any reasonable construction of the statute, to be heard touching the matters of the decree, as if no
decree had been made. When the order was made opening
the decree, he acquired a position in which he could take any
step that might have been taken had he appeared in due season
in obedience to a summons. The court was at liberty to proceed as if no decree had been made against him. He could
have demurred, pleaded, or answered, or, the suit being removable into the Circuit Court of the United States, have filed a

HARTER V. KERNOCHAN.

[Sup, ut.

petition and bond as required by law in such cases. The contention of counsel for appellants is, in effect, that, until Kernochan answered the bill, the State court was without jurisdiction
to proceed as if he had "appeared in due season and no decree
had been made." But such a construction of the statute is too
technical and is scarcely admissible where the party appearing,
and who has been proceeded against by publication only, is a
citizen of another State, entitled under the Constitution and
laws of the United States to remove the cause from the State
court. The utmost which could be claimed in such cases (and
we do not say that such a claim could be sustained) is, that
the State court might, in its discretion, decline to open the
decree, or to hear the defendant, unless he presented an answer
to the bill. In this case, the motion of Kernochan to redocket
the cause and open the decree was granted, without requiring
him to file an answer, disclosing his defence to the suit. We
are not prepared to say that the State court erred in its ruling.
We should, under the circumstances, assume that the State
court correctly interpreted the local statute. If, therefore, the
suit was removable, the Federal court, upon its removal, and,
after the pleadings were made up, and proofs taken upon the
issues made by Kernoehan, had the power to set aside, alter, or
amend the decree as might be just, or adjudge that it stand
confirmed as entered in the State court. Upon his appearance
in the State court the suit became, as to him, for all practical
purposes, a new suit, to be conducted, however, subject to the
authority of the court to confirm the former, instead of entering
a new, decree.
We do not doubt that the suit was one which the defendant
was entitled, under the act of March 3, 1875, e. 137, to remove
from the State court. Disregarding, as we may do, the particular position, whether as complainants or defendants, assigned
to the parties by the draughtsman of the bill, it is apparent
that the sole matter in dispute is the liability of the township upon the bonds; that upon one side of that dispute are
all of the State, county, and township officers and taxpayers,
who are made parties, while upon the other is Kernochan,
the owner of the bonds whose validity is questioned by this
suit. He alone, of all the parties, is, in a legal sense, inter.

Oct.

1880.]

HARTER V. KERNOCHAN.

ested in the enforcement of liability upon the township. It is,
therefore, a suit in which there is a single controversy, embracing the whole suit, between citizens of different States,
one side of which is represented alone by Kernochan, a citizen
of Massachusetts, and the other by citizens of Illinois. Bemoval Cases, 100 U. S. 457.
But it is contended that the petition of Kernochan, for the
removal of the suit, was not filed within the time prescribed
by the act, that is, at the term at which the cause could be
first tried. The argument is, that Kernochan, although not
advised, in any legal mode, of the pendency of the suit, was at
liberty to appear therein before the decree was entered, and,
consequently, that he did not seek its removal at or before the
term at which the cause could have been first tried; that his
appearance, and filing his petition praying to be heard touching
the matters of tne decree, have relation to the time when he
shoald have appeared in court, had he been duly summoned.
The bare statement of this proposition suggests its refutation.
When the defendant would have been summoned had he been
within the local jurisdiction of the State court, we are not
informed; and, consequently, it is difficult to ascertain, upon
the theory of appellant's counsel, when he should have appeared in court. It is sufficient to say, that the defendant,
within the period fixed by the statute, appeared and secured
the opening of the decree. The first term thereafter, at which
the cause could properly have been tried, upon the merits, as
to him, was the term at which, within the meaning of the act,
he should have filed his petition for removal. And it was so
filed.
We come now to the consideration of questions involving
the
merits of the cause.
We have seen that the bonds recite that they were issued in
pursuance as well of the authority conferred by the act of Feb.
25, 1867, incorporating the Illinois Southeastern Railway Company, and the act of Feb. 24, 1869, amendatory thereof, as of
an election of the legal voters of the township, held on the
tenth day of November, 1868.
The first of those acts conferred authority upen townships
to donate to the railway company any amount not exceeding

]HARTER Vo KERNOCHAN.

[Sup. Ct.

$30,000. That authority was not, however, to be exercised
until after a proposition by the railroad company to the township, nor unless the donation was sanctioned by a majority of
legal votes, cast at an election duly called and held to consider
the question of donation, upon the terms proposed. It appears,
from the record, that the company made to the township
a proposition which contemplated a donation of p20,0O0, payable in three instalments, to be raised by a special tax, to
be assessed and collected in 1869, 1870, and 1871; and which
also bound the company to accept township bonds in lieu of
the special tax, in the event legislation could be obtained
giving authority to issue them. An election was held, on the
day stated in the bonds, and the donation, upon the terms
set forth in the company's proposition, was approved by a
vote of three hundred, out of a total vote of three hundred
and forty-two.
The fifth section of the amendatory act of Feb. 24, 1869, is
in these words:"And whereas, certain townships in Wayne and Clay Counties
have voted donations to said railway company, said townships are
hereby authorized and empowered to issue township bonds for the
amount so donated, without submitting the proposition again to be
voted upon,-said bonds to be issued in sums not less than one
hundred nor more than one thousand dollars each, with interest
coupons attached, drawing interest at the rate of ten per cent per
annum, payable semi-annually at the county treasurer's office, in
each county where such townships are located,- said bonds to be
payable in five years or any time thereafter, not exceeding twenty
years, at the option of the townships; and said bonds to be signed
by the supervisors thereof, or by the supervisor or supervisors of the
district wherein such township is located, and to be countersigned
by the township clerk of the respective townships; and said bonds
to be delivered, properly executed, to the president of said railway
company, when the conditions are complied with as contained in
election notices and propositions submitted to and voted upon by
the people of said townships; and said townships shall each, by its
proper corporate authorities, provide, in due time, by a levy and a
collection each year of a sufficient tax on its assessed property to
pay the interest on its bonds, as it accrues half-yearly, as aforesaid,
and ultimately to provide for the principal of said bonds at matur.

Oct. 1880.]

HARTER v KERNOCHAN.

ity: Provid&d that said bonds shall be placed in the hands of a
trustee, on the demand of said railway company as hereinafter provided: And, also, provided, that such townships may determine,
by a vote of their electors, at any regular or special town meeting
or election, whether they will issue bonds or not in payment of the
donations heretofore voted to said company." Private Laws Ill.,
vol. iii. p. 310.
In conformity with the provisions of that act, a special town
meeting of the township was duly called and held on the
twentieth day of May, 1870, at which the electors present
voted unanimously in favor of an issue of bonds, in payment of
the donation previously voted, rather than proceed with the
levy and collection of a special tax, as contemplated by the
original proposition of the company. A few days thereafter,
to wit, May 27, 1870, as appears from the records of the town
ship, the bonds, amounting to $20,000, were delivered by the
township officers to the Springfield and Illinois Southeastern
Railway Company, a corporation which had been formed on
the 3d of December, 1869, in accordance with the laws of Illinois, by the consolidation of the Illinois Southeastern Railway
Company with the Pana, Springfield, and Northwestern Railway Company. The bonds were transmitted by the township
supervisor to the State auditor for registration, under the
provisions of the funding act in force April 16, 1869. He
certified, under oath, that they had been issued under the said
acts of Feb. 25, 1867, and Feb. 24, 1869, and that all the
preliminary conditions required, in the act of April 16, 1869,
to be performed before such registration, and to entitle them
to the benefits of that act, had been, to the best of his knowledge and belief, fully complied with. It may also be stated
that taxes were annually levied, collected, and applied, by the
township, in payments of interest on the bonds up to the commencement of this suit in 1877.
In view of these facts it is difficult to perceive upon what
just ground the township can escape liability. In the first
place, the bonds were issued in pursuance of a popular vote in
favor of a donation to be met by a special tax, and also of a
vote, at a subsequent special election, in favor of an issue of
bonds in payment of that donation. In the next place, and as

HARTER v. KERNOCHAN.

[Sup. Ot.

conclusive against the township, the recitals in the bonds
import a compliance with all of the provisions of the acts of
assembly under which they were issued. It is true that the
bonds do not, in express words, refer to the special election of May 20, 1870; but since the amendatory act authorized the township, upon a vote, at a regular or special town
meeting or election, to issue bonds in payment of the donation previously voted, the recital in them fairly imports
that such an election was, in fact, held before they were
issued.
If those acts are not repugnant to the Constitution of the
State. it results that, according to repeated adjudications of
this court, the township is estopped, by the recitals in the
bonds, to assert that their provisions were not complied with.
The Constitution of Illinois, in force when these acts were
passed, declared that the corporate authorities of counties,
townships, school-districts, cities, towns, and villages may be
vested with power to assess and collect taxes for corporate
purposes. It is the settled law of the State, as heretofore
recognized by this court, that this constitutional provision was
intended to define the class of persons to whom the right of
taxation might be granted, and the purposes for which it might
be exercised; and that the legislature could not constitutionally
confer that power upon any other than corporate authorities of
counties, townships, school-districts, cities, towns, and villages,
or for any other than corporate purposes. County of Livingston v. Darlington, 101 U. S. 411. Our attention is called to
several cases in the Supreme Court of the State, in which it
has been held that the legislature could not constitutionally
require a municipal corporation, without its consent, to issue
bonds or incur a debt for a merely corporate purpose. Some
of those cases turn upon the inquiry as to who are, in the sense
of the Constitution, corporate authorities of counties, cities,
towns, &c., and what are corporate purposes. A leading case
is Williams v. Town of Roberts (88 Ill. 11), where the court,
speaking by Chief Justice Scholfield, said that under the system
of township organization existing in Illinois, the electors alone
represented the corporate authority of the town, and without
their consent, expressed at town meetings or town elections, nn

Oct. 1880.)

HRTER V. KERNOCHAN.

debt for a merely local corporate purpose could be imposed
upon the township.
But neither that nor any other decision by the State court
cited by counsel distinctly meets the precise point now before
us, or would justify us in holding (as we ought not to do except
in a clear case) that the General Assembly of the State had
transcended its constitutional powers. The act of Feb. 27,
1867, did not assume to impose a debt upon the township without the consent of the electors. It expressly required an election to be held, at which the legal voters could determine the
question of donation for themselves. The election was held,
and a donation voted to aid in the construction of a railroad.
That, it must be conceded, was a corporate purpose, within the
meaning of the Constitution as interpreted by the State court.
But it is contended that the amendatory act authorized the
township officers, without the assent of the voters, to impose a
burden or create a debt wholly different from that to which
the voters, at the election on the 10th of November, 1868, gave
their assent. Counsel overlook or fail to give proper force to
the proviso in that act authorizing the electors at a regular or
special town meeting to determine whether they would issue
bonds in payment of the donation previously voted to the corn
pany. And there was, as we have seen, a special town meeting, duly called for the specific purpose of determining that
question, and the decision was unanimous in favor of issuing
bonds to pay off the donation.
It is urged, in this connection, that the Supreme Court of the
State, in the recent case of Schaeffer v. Bonham (95 id. 878),
decided in 1880, has ruled that the fifth section of the amendatory act of Feb. 24, 1869, was in violation of the Constitution
of the State, and that it was the duty of this court to accept
that decision as conclusive. That case in many respects resembles this one, but, upon the particular point arising here, it
is materially different. It was submitted upon an agreed statement of facts, from which it appears that a certain township
had, in 1868, voted a donation to the Illinois Southeastern Railway Company, to be raised by special tax, under the authority
conferred in the act of Feb. 25, 1867. But it did not appear,
from the evidence in that case, that an election had been held.

HARTER V. KERNOCHAN.

[Sup. Ct.

as authorized by the fifth section of the act of Feb. 24, 1869,
to determine whether the donation should be paid by township
bonds rather than by a special tax for a limited period. We
infer from the agreed statement of facts in that case, as well as
from the remarks of the court, that no opportunity was, in fact,
given to the voters to determine the question of issuing bonds.
The court said that the charter authorizing townships to vote
donations did not contemplate, and, consequently, did not provide, for issuing bonds; that it only intended a donation to be
paid by the levy of a tax, and the payment of the money, when
thus collected, to the railroad company; that the legislature
could not confer upon the township officers, without a vote of
the people, authority to make such a radical change in the
proposition upon which the people voted, as would occur, if,
instead of a special tax, during a limited period, to meet the
donation, township interest-bearing bonds should be issued,
running from five to twenty years.
The State court, in referring to the fifth section of the act of
Feb. 24, 1869, states that it "authorizes and empowers townships in Wayne and Clay Counties, that had voted donations
to the road, without submitting the question to a vote, to issue
bonds," &c. We are unable to concur in that construction of
the act, since that section, after authorizing townships in
Wayne and Clay Counties, which had voted donations to the
railway company, "to issue township bonds for the amount so
donated, without submitting the proposition [for a donation]
again to be voted upon," expressly declares that "such townships may determine by a vote of their electors, at any regular
or special town meeting or election, whether they will issue
bonds or not in payment of the donations heretofore voted to
said company." The purpose of the fifth section was to dispense, as to certain townships, with a second vote upon the
general question of donation, and to confer authority to issue
township bonds in payment of such donation, when, and only
when, the electors so voted at a regular or special town meeting
or election. In Schaeffer v. Bonham it did not appear that the
voters were consulted as to whether bonds should be substituted
in lieu of the special tax previously voted. The parties there
sought the opinion of the court upon an agreed statement of

Oct. 1880.]

t1 ARTER

V. KERNOCHAN.

facts, which, in effect, conceded that no such election was held.
Here it is shown that the bonds in suit were issued in pursuance of the vote of the electors at a special town meeting called
to determine the question whether the donation previously
voted should be paid in that mode. It is clear that Schaeffer
v. Bozhai proceeds upon the ground, in part, that the bonds
there in suit were issued in payment of the donation, without
any submission of the question to the voters.
In another portion of its opinion, after stating that the
assessment of taxes to pay off the donation was the imposition
of a debt upon the township, the State court said: "Had the
township voted to incur a debt, and the bonds had been issued
by a person named by the General Assembly, different from the
corporate authorities, then payment of interest and acquiescence
for such a length of time might have operated as an estoppel.
In such a case, the vote to create the debt, if authorized by law
and had in pursuance of law, would have been the essential act
to create the debt, and the mere signing and delivering the evidence of the debt would have been valid if done by a person
specified by the General Assembly, whether named before or
after the vote was had. But such is not the case here. No
debt was voted, and the legislature was powerless to authorize
any but the corporate authorities to create a debt." p. 381. If,
as held by the State court, the issuing of bonds, in payment of
the donation previously voted, was incurring a debt, and if such
a debt could not be incurred without a direct vote of the
electors, it is sufficient to say that such a vote was had in reference to the bonds here in suit.
For the reasons stated we are of opinion that the acts of
Feb. 25, 1867, and Feb. 24, 1869, are not in violation of the
Constitution of the State; and in so holding we do not,
we think, come in conflict with any decision of the State court
in which the precise question here presented has been passed
upon.
It remains for us to consider whether the township can avoid
liability upon the bonds by reason of the fact that they were
delivered to the Springfield and Illinois Southeastern Railway
Company, the donation having been originally voted to the
Illinois Southeastern Railway Company.

HARTER V. KERNOCHAN.

[Sup. Ot.

We are of opinion that there is nothing of substance in this
objection. The act incorporating the Illinois Southeastern
Railway Company, the act amendatory thereof, and the act in
relation to the Pana, Springfield, and Northwestern Railway
Company (even if the general statutes of the State were not
sufficient for the purpose), fully authorized the consolidation
between those two companies, and upon such consolidation the
new company succeeded to all the rights, franchises, and powers
of the constituent companies. The power in the township to
make a donation to aid in the construction of the Illinois
Southeastern railway was also a privilege of the latter corporation, and that privilege, upon the consolidation, passed to the
new company. The donation was voted before the consolidation took effect, and since the consolidated or new company
did not propose to apply such donation to purposes materially
different from those for which the people voted it in 1868, its
right to receive the donation, at least when the township
assented, cannot be doubted. The records of the township
show that the bonds were directed to be issued and delivered
to the new company, and it will not, under the circumstances,
be allowed to say, as against a bona fide purchaser for value,
that the bonds are invalid. There is, consequently, no pretext
for saying that a burden was imposed upon the people to which
they had never given their consent in the mode prescribed by
law.
Other questions are discussed, but we do not deem it necessary to refer to them.
Decree afflrmed.

