Oct. 1880.J

ADABM

v. NORRIS.

the election of March 26, 1870, was only cumulative legislation,
so far as it related to subjects embraced in the act of March
17, 1870, as modified by the act of Feb. 16, 1872. I think that
the act of March 17, 1870, as modified by the act of Feb. 16,
1872, was constitutional, and that the petition states a good
cause of action against the defendant, even if the issue, by the
town, of bonds for the purposes indicated, was a loan of credit,
within the meaning of the State Constitution.
For these reasons I feel obliged to dissent from the opinion
and judgment.

ADAx v. NoBIS.
1. A patent issued upon a confirmed Mexican grant is in the nature of a com
veyance by way of quitclaim. It is conclusive only as between the parties
thereto, and is evidence that, as against the United States, the validity
of the grant has been established. M3iller v. Dale (92 U. S. 473) cited and
approved.
2. Where a survey and a patent thereon are founded upon a superior Mexican
grant, the rights of a party thereunder are not concluded by a prior survey
to other claimants.
3. A patent issued upon a survey of a grant was returned by the grantee to
the Commissioner of the General Land-Office, who ordered another survey.
Hdd, that the patent issued upon the last survey is not rendered invalid
because, in addition to lands not covered by the prior patent, it purports
to convey those which were so covered.
4. A pleading which would be cured by verdict, is good after a finding by the
court to which the trial of the issue was submitted by the stipulation of the
parties.

ERoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of California.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. S. F. Leib for the plaintiffs in error.
14r. Benjaminn S. Brooks and Mr. James A: Redington,
.!ontra.
MR. JUSTImE MLLE delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action to recover possession of land, brought
vy Adam and Schuman in the District Court of the State of

ADAM V NORRIS.

[Sup. Ot.

California for the County of Santa Barbara, but removed on
the petition of Norris and the other defendants into the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of California,
where, by agreement of the parties, it was tried without a jury.
The court made a finding setting forth all the facts on which
the title of each party rests. There was a judgment for the
defendants. Adam and Schuman sued out this writ.
The case is one dependent strictly on the legal title. Each
party is supported by a patent from the United States issued
upon a confirmed Mexican grant, and by a survey approved by
the General Land-Office. Each patent includes the land in
controversy. The explanation of this is, that while the grants
were in the main for different tracts of land, they interfere and
overlap when the lines of each are clearly ascertained.
The defendants hold under a grant of the Rancho Guadalupe from the Mexican government, dated March 21, 1840, to
Teodoro Arrellanes and Diego Olivera, a decree of the District
Court of the United States for California confirming that claim
May 12, 1857, and a patent from the United States, dated
March 1, 1870.
The plaintiffs assert title under a grant of that government
of the Rancho La Punta de la Laguna, dated Dec. 29, 1844, to
Louis Arrellanes and Eusides Miguel Ortega, which was confirmed by the District Court May 2, 1854, and a patent issued
thereon Oct. 2, 1873.
If this were all, it would seem clear that the defendants,
being in possession of the land under the older patent from the
United States, and the older grant from the government of
Mexico, the judgment of the Circuit Court should be affirmed.
To this view the plaintiffs assign several objections as errors,
some of which we will notice.
1. The survey on which the plaintiffs' patent was issued
having been approved by the surveyor-general Jan. 29, 1861,
and publication of it, under the act of June 14, 1860, duly
made in February and March, 1861, the plaintiffs insist that as
no objection was made to it, it became final and conclusive at
that time, while that on which defendants' patent was issued
was approved by the surveyor-general in June, 1867.
The act of Congress of June 14, 1860, c. 128 (12 Stat. 33),

Oct. 1880.]

ADAM v. NORRIS.

required the surveyor-general, whenever a survey of a confirmed Mexican grant had been approved by him, to make a
publication of the survey for a prescribed time, which should
be held to be notice to everybody of what it included. Any
one desiring to contest the correctness of this survey could, on
a proper application, have it removed or filed in the District
Court of the United States, where the objection to it should
be heard and determined, and, if necessary, corrected by a new
survey or otherwise. The fifth section of the act then declares
that "the said plat and survey, so finally determined by publication, order, or decree, as the case may be, shall have the
same effect and validity in law as if a patent for the land so
surveyed had been issued by the United States."
Counsel for the plaintiffs has argued that a patent from
the United States is final and conclusive on everybody, and
that the title which it confers cannot be disputed in a court
of law.
No doubt, where the patent is for land to which the government had an undisputed title, the proposition is generally, if
not always, true. But the United States, in dealing with parties claiming, under Mexican grants, lands within the territory ceded by the treaty of Mexico, never made pretence
that it was the owner of them. When, therefore, guided by
the action of the tribunals established to pass upon the validity of these alleged grants, the government issued a patent,
admission that the
it was in the nature of a quitclaim, -an
rightful ownership had never been in the United States, but
had passed at the time of the cession to the claimant, or to
those under whom he claimed. This principle has been more
than once clearly announced in this court. The leading cases
are Beard v. Pedery, 3 Wall. 478; Henshaw v. Bissell, 18 id.
255; Miller v. Dale, 92 U. S. 473.
Such a patent was, therefore, conclusive evidence only as
between the United States and the grantee that the latter
had established the validity of the grant.
The last of the cases above cited gives the history of the act
of June 14, 1860, and holds that the effect of a compliance
with the act is limited to the establishment of the conformity
of the survey to the decree of confirmation, which fact could
Vol. XIII.

38

594

ADAM v. Noimis.

[Sup. Ct.

not afterwards be disputed by any one who, under that act,
had opportunity to contest it before the District Court.
We do not think, therefore, if the defendants' survey and
patent are based upon a superior Mexican grant, that their
rights are concluded by the prior survey of the plaintiffs.
2. It is insisted that a patent was issued in 1866, on a survey
of the Guadalupe grant, which did not include the lands in
controversy; that this action terminated the authority of the
land-office in the matter; and that the subsequent survey and
patent of 1870, which do include them, are, therefore, void.
It is not necessary to decide whether the refusal of the
grantee to accept the patent in the present case, and his return
of it to the Commissioner of the General Land-Office, who ordered a new survey, remove the objection here made, though it
is not easy to see why his refusal to accept the patent, and his
consent to its return, before intervening lights had accrued to
any one, did not authorize a correction of any defect in that
patent.
This is, in effect, what was done, and whether the patent of
1866 is still a valid patent, or is no longer of any force, cannot
affect this case. If it be valid as to the land covered by it,
that does not make void the patent of 1870 for land not covered
by it.
If the conveyance of 1866 passed the title to the claimants of
a part of the land covered by their confirmed grant, there is no
reason why an additional patent should not convey the remainder when the proper officer became satisfied that the first did
not convey all that had been confirmed to them. Nor is the
last patent rendered invalid because, in addition to the land
not conveyed by the first patent, it purports to convey also
what was already patented.
In short, it is but the common case of a grantor who, having
failed to convey what he was bound to convey, makes another
deed to correct the wrong. The deeds are not in conflict. If
the power of the land-office was exhausted by the first deed, it
was only so as to the land which it included. The legal title
to that alone could pass by that patent, and if the title to the
land now in question remained in the government, the patent
of 1870 was sufficient to convey it.

Oc.1880.]

UNITED STATES V. QUIGLEY.

We think the error is not well assigned.
The only other assignment which requires notice is, that
judgment should, on the pleading, have been rendered for the
plaintiffs.
Plaintiffs averred that they were the owners of a certain
large tract of land. That held by defendants was but a
small part of this, and they, by their answer, did not set out
their own metes and bounds, or any description of what they
held, but denied that plaintiffs were the owners and entitled to
all the land described in the complaint.
It is said that this made an immaterial issue; for if plaintiffs
owned the land in possession of defendants, it was not necessary
to prove their ownership of what lay outside of that, though
claimed in their petition.
This objection was not made in the case before the Circuit
Court. The case was submitted to the court, which found all
the facts necessary to decide the question of title to the land
held by defendants. We think it is too late to raise this technical question after a full hearing and finding by the court of
all the facts pertinent to the case. The pleading would be
good after verdict. A multo fortiori is it good after this finding, and on appeal, with no attempt to correct it in the court
below.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES V. QUIGLEY.
A., a merchant residing in Georgia, left there at the commencement of the
rebellion, and, until its close, remained in loyal territory. On leaving, he
intrusted his business to an agent, who, with money collected or acquired
on his account, purchased, in 1864, cotton subsequently captured by the
United States and sold. A. sued for the net proceeds thereof in the Court
of Claims. Hdd, that he was entitled to recover.

from the Court of Claims.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Assistant Attorney- General Smith for the United States
Mr. John D. McPherson, contra.
APPEAL

