[Sup. C

JONES 1'. WALKER.

JONES v. WALE

.

I. The last will and testament of A. directs that his interest in a firm, whereof
he was a member at the time of his death, "be continued therein, and be
chargeable for its debts and liabilities," but that his "other property shall
not be so chargeable." Held, that the general assets of his estate are not
bound for the debts of the firm which were contracted subsequently to his
death.
2. The profits arising from that interest were, pursuant to the will, paid from
time to time, the firm being then free from debt, and its capital undiminished. It afterwards became bankrupt. Held, that the legatees receiving
them were not liable to the assignee in bankruptcy therefor.

APPDAL from the Circuit Court of the United States foi
the District of Kentucky.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Hartin Bijur and Hfr. TV 0. Dodd for the appellant.
Mr. Johtn Mason Brown, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
W. H. Walker, who was a large dealer in liquors in part.
nership with his son Frederick, made his will in July, 1870.
One of the clauses of the will provided for the continuance
of the partnership and the conduct of this business after his
death.
It is in this language: "It is my wish that my son Frederick carry on the business
of W. H. Walker & Co. in that name and style, and in my
storehouse where it is now carried on, giving him power to
change the place until my youngest child living to be twentyone years of age arrives at that age, or for a shorter time, if he
does not find it profitable. To that end all my capital and
interest in said concern shall be continued therein, and shall be
chargeable for its debts and liabilities; but my other property
shall not be so chargeable while Frederick carries on said business ; my share shall pay the salary of an efficient man to aid
him therein, or he shall have compensation for his services as
to and from my share. Agents and employ6s of the concern
are to be paid by it.
Frederick is not to be charged with five
thousand dollars advanced by me to him on his coming of age,

Oct. 1880.]

JONES v. WALKER.

and he is to have the privilege to purchase, at a fair valuation
and upon reasonable time, such portion of my share in said
concern and its good-will as will make his share equal to onehalf. What he may so pay is to be divided as profits of the
concern. While my storehouse is occupied by the concern it
shall pay rent therefor. The profits of said concern, which
shall be ascertained and declared in the first of January after
my death, and annually thereafter, shall be divided between
my wife and children, or their descendants, and others. As
my personalty is to be divided among them when my youngest
child living to be twenty-one years of age arrives at that age,
or at the death of my son Frederick before that time, or when
he discontinues the business, my interest in the concern and its
good-will shall be sold as my executors may direct, and the
proceeds divided, as the profits thereof are to be divided, with
an obligation, if possible, that the business may be carried on
under the old name and style."
The testator died in 1872, and the business was conducted
as directed in the will until Feb. 27, 1877, when the firm, on
the petition of its members, was declared bankrupt by the
proper court.
The appellant Jones was made assignee, and very shortly
afterwards filed the bill in the present case against the devisees of W. H. Walker's will.
The object of the bill is twofold, namely, to subject the
property of the deceased, which had not been embarked in the
partnership enterprise, in the hands of the devisees, to the payment of the partnership debts, and to recover from the defendants money which they had received as dividends out of the
profits of the business after the death of the testator.
In the recent case of Snzith v. Ayres (101 U. S. 320), the
legal principle lying at the foundation of the first of these
grounds of relief was fully discussed and determined. It was
there held that a testator might authorize the continuance of a
partnership, in which he was engaged at the time of his death,
without subjecting any more of his property to the vicissitudes
of the business than what was then embarked in it, and that,
unless he had expressly placed the whole, or some other part of
his estate. under the operation of the partnership, it would not

JONES V. WALKER.

[Sup. Ct.

be presumed that he had so intended. See also Burwell v.
Mandeville's Executor, 2 How. 560; Er parte Garland, 10
Ves. Jr. 109. In the case before us the testator declares, in
express terms, that his capital and interest in said concern
shall be continued therein, and shall be chargeable for its debts
and liabilities; but his other property shall not be so chargeable.
We see no reason in the present case for departing from
the principle adopted in Smith v. Ayres after much consideration.
If dividends of profits out of the partnership business were
honestly and fairly made, and when paid did not diminish the
capital, nor withdraw what was necessary to pay the indebtedness of the concern, we see no reason why the persons receiving
them should now be called on to refund them.
The will of the testator has a clause authorizing these dividends. The partnership had a long time to run and a large
part of his capital was engaged in the business. There were
children to be reared and educated, and it would have been
very unreasonable that all the profits should be continually
converted into capital, and that neither these children, nor
Frederick, the other partner, should be permitted to receive
dividends of profits, except on the condition of a liability to
that extent for any future transactions of the partnership
through a period of fifteen or twenty years.
If these dividends had not been declared in good faith, nor
really earned, if they had diminished the capital, or if, when
they were made, debts existed which would have been left without means of payment, the persons sharing in the dividends
would probably have been liable to these creditors to the extent
of the money so received.
But we are satisfied that none of these conditions existed.
The case is mainly one of fact, and the testimony is very
full. We do not think its discussion here profitable or useful.
We are satisfied that at the time the last dividend was made
the capital of the company was undiminished, and the firm
aniply able to pay its debts. Its misfortunes followed after
this.
It very fully appears that the insolvency was brought about

Oct. 1880.]

UNITY

v. BURRAGE.

by accommodation indorsements for others, made after the last
dividend was paid; that the firm, but for this, would have
remained solvent, and that, in regard to this, none of the de
fonlants were to blame except Frederick, who, being a full
partner, is liable personally for all the debts of the firm.

.kn important matter in the case is a stipulation of the partic-s to the suit that all the debts owing by the firm were cotstracted subsequently to the declaration and payment of all the
dividends, and none of the debts df the firm were in existence
at the time these profits were declared and paid.
No creditor whose debt was in existence when these dividends
were made was injured. All the debts then existing have been
paid. What right had subsequent creditors to reclaim these
dividends, who had no interest in the matter when they were
paid? These defendants, except Frederick, were not partners.
Their money was in the concern, and they received dividends
instead of interest.
We repeat that there is no evidence of fraud or intentional
wrong.
Decree affirmed.

UIrTY v. BuERAGPS.
1. A statute was declared to be a public act. A subsequent statute, supplementary thereto and amendatory thereof, is also a public act, and need not be
specially pleaded.
2. A statute of Illinois, legalizing elections held by the voters of a county or
the question of issuing negotiable bonds of the county, in aid of certain
railroad companies, and authorizing, on conditions therein named, all the
townships in counties where the township organization had been adopted,
lying on or near to the line of a specified railroad, to subscribe to the stock
of the railroad company, and issue negotiable bonds therefor, is a public
act.
3. Such a statute does not conflict with section 2.3 of article 3 of the Constitution
of 1848, which provides that "no private or local law, which may be passed
by the General Assembly, shall embrace more than one subject, and that
shall be expressed in the title."

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.

