TH0mPSON

V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

THolursow v. UNITED STATES.
1. To a petition for a mandamus, to compel A., the clerk of a township, to whom
had been delivered a certified copy of a judgment recovered against it to
certify the judgment to the supervisor in order that the amount thereof
might be placed upon the tax-roll, A. made answer, among other things,
that he had resigned his office before the copy was served upon him.
Held, that evidence that the township board had, after the cause was at
issue, appointed his successor, was properly excluded.
2. Such an appointment, after the institution of the proceedings, should, if available as a matter of defence, have been set up by a plea of puis darreincontinuance or its equivalent.
3. Semble, that proceedings against the clerk of a township, to enforce its duty of
levying the amount of such a judgment, are against it, and do not abate by
his resignation and the appointment of his successor.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Michigan.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court

Mr. H. F. Severens for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. H. J. Smiley, contra.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case arises upon a petition for a mandamus to compel
Thompson, the township clerk of the township of Lincoln, in
the county of Berrien, State of Michigan, to make and deliver
to the supervisor of the township a certified copy of a judgment recovered against it by the Cambria Iron Company, the
petitioner, in order to its being placed upon the tax-roll for
collection and payment. The questions arising are much the
same as those disposed of in the case of E9dwards v. United
States, supra, p. 471. The petition states that the Cambria
Iron Company recovered judgment against the township of Lincoln, in the Circuit Court of the United States, on the 29th of
May, 1876, for the sum of $6,273.32, besides costs, and caused
to be delivered a certified copy thereof to Thompson, the township clerk, with a request to certify it to the supervisor, to be
raised by tax on the township; but that Thompson declared
that he would not do it, and pretended that there was no supervisor; that one Mitchell Spillman, who had been supervisor,
had resigned; and that if there were any supervisor, sti~l he

Oct. 1 S.]

THwi1rSON

V. UNITED STATES.

would not do it; that he himself had resigned, and was not
clerk of the township; that the supervisor and- himself had
both resigned for the express purpose of defeating the collection
of the petitioner's judguient, 'aid other similar claims. The
pet iti-.n charges that the said supervisor and clerk have fraudulently combined to cheat and defraud the petitioner by falsely
pretending to resign, whereas they actually continue to discharge the duties of their offices, - setting forth various facts
colrolorative of the charge.
The court below having granted a rule to show cause why a
JfJi,,ltjav6 as prayed for should not issue, the defendant filed an

answer to the petition, admitting that a judgment had been enteied against the township, as stated in the petition, but averring that it was not a valid judgment, because, as the answer
alleged, the court never obtained jurisdiction ; that no service
ua-s ever had of process in the cause upon the supervisor of the
township; that Alonzo D. Brown, upon whom service was
made, was not at the time supervisor; and that, although one
Clapp, an attorney, appeared for the township, he was never
employed by the township; that the defendant was, it is true,
duly elected clerk of the township in April, 1876, but that he
resigned his office before the certified copy of the judgment was
served upon him, by filing in the office of the clerk (that is, his
own office) and depositing with the files of the township a written resignation addressed to the township board; and that he has
not acted as clerk since. He admits that he refused to certify
the iudgment, but did so because he was not clerk, and because
there was no supervisor, Spillman, who had been supervisor,
having resigned. This answer was demurred to, but the demurrer was overruled and the cause came on for trial. The
jury rendered a special verdict, as follows "_Pi'sf, That on the twenty-third day of November, 1875,
Alonzo Brown, upon whom the declaration was served in the
original case of Te C(amiriaIron. Co pay v. Tie Township of
.Licl,a,was supervisor of said township of Lincoln, and was
such supervisor at the time the declaration in said cause was
served upon him as such supervisor by the marshal.
S1econd, That George S. Clapp, who entered his appearance as attorney for the defendant in said cause, and appeared
VOL. X111.

31

THOmPSON v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

and pleaded therein for said township of Lincoln, was duly authorized by said defendant to appear and plead for it in said
cause.
" 1Tird, That the respondent, John F. B. Thompson, was,
at the time of the service of the order to show cause why a
mandamus should not issue against him, clerk of the said township of Lincoln, and still is such clerk, and has not resigned
the said office.
"FourtTh, That Mitchell Spillman was, at the time the said
order to show cause was served, the supervisor of said township,
and still holds the said office, and held the said office on October 1, A.D. 1876."
The questions raised on the trial were, as in the previous case
of Edwards, whether the tender of a resignation by the supervisor or the clerk of a township, by filing the same with the clerk,
was valid and effectual as a resignation, so as to discharge the
officer of his official character, without an acceptance by the
township board, or an appointment to fill the vacancy. Such a
resignation was relied on to show that Brown, on whom process
in the original action was served, was not supervisor, and that
Spillman was not supervisor, and the defendant was not clerk
when the present proceedings were commenced. As we have
fully discussed this question in the previous case, it is not necessary to say anything further on the subject. The ruling of the
court below was in conformity with our decision in that case.
This also disposes of the question of the appearance of Clapp,
the attorney in the original action, he having been employed
by Brown, the supervisor.
Another question raised at the trial was, whether the petitioner might show the motive and intent with which the supervisor and clerk attempted to resign, with a view to show that
it was done for the purpose of defrauding the petitioner, and
avoiding to do those acts which were necessary to the collection
of the judgment. The court allowed evidence to be given on
the subject, and to this the defendant excepted. We do not
see why the evidence was not admissible for the purpose of
showing that the attempted resignation was simulated and
fraudulent. But it is not necessary to decide this point, since
the admission of the testimony did not injure the defendant.

06,,f. 1880.]

THOIPSON V. UNITED STATES.

because the attempted resignations were not completed by the
acceptance of the township committee.
Another point raised was, that it appeared by the township
book, offered in evidence, that the township board did appoint
a successor to the defendant as township clerk on the fourth
day of November, 1876, after the cause was at issue. On
motion of the petitioner's counsel this evidence was stricken
out for the reason that such fact having arisen since the return
was made, it was not competent under the issue framed thereon.
It does not appear that this matter was in any way brought to
the notice of the court, or sought to be put in issue, until the
evidence was offered during the trial. In addition to this, the
evidence was not conclusive. It did not show that the attempted
appointment was effectual. Had the point been properly put
at issue, the whole matter could have been known. We think
the court was justified in striking out the evidence. As a matter of defence, whether in abatement or in bar, it should have
been set up by a plea puis darrein continuance, or its equivalent. It could not be given in evidence under any of the issues
in the cause. Jackson v. Bich, 7 Johns. (N. Y.) 194; Jackson
v. McP-all, 3 Cow. (N. Y.) 79.
But we cannot accede to the proposition that proceedings in
m, namius abate by the expiration of the term of office of the
defendant where, as in this case, there is a continuing duty irrespective of the incumbent, and the proceeding is undertaken to
enforce an obligation of the corporation or municipality to which
the office is attached. The contrary has been held by very
high authority. People v. Charnpion, 16 Johns. (N. Y.) 60;
P, ople v. Collins, 19 Wend. (N. Y.) 56; High, Extr. Rem.
sect. 38. We have had before us many cases in which the writ
has, without objection, been directed to the corporation itself,
instead of the officers individually; and yet, in case of disobedience to the peremptory zaandainus, there is no doubt that the
officers by whose delinquency it was incurred, would have been
liable to attachment for contempt. The proceedings may be
t,,mnmenced with one set of officers and terminate with another,
the latter being bound by the judgment. Board of Commisx;,,,r. (f Knox County v. Aspinwall, 24 How. 376; Supervisors
Y. United States, 4 Wall. 435; Von ffoffman v. City of Quincy,

THOMPSON V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

id. 535 ; Benbow v. Iowa City, 7 id. 813 ; Butz v. City of 31umseatine, 8 id. 575; Mayor v. Lord, 9 id. 409; Commissioners v
Sellew, 99 U. S. 624; and many others.
And so, if we regard the substance and not the mere form of
things, a proceeding like the present, instituted against a town
ship clerk, as a step in the enforcement of a township duty to
levy the amount of a judgment against it, ought not to abate
by the expiration of the particular clerk's term of office, but
ought to proceed to final judgment, so as to compel his successor in office to do the duty required of him in order to obtain
satisfaction from the township. The whole proceeding is really
and in substance a proceeding against the township, as much as
if it were named, and is in the nature and place of an execution. If the resignation of the officer should involve an abatement, we would always have the unseemly spectacle of constant
resignations and reappointments to avoid the effect of the suit.
Where the proceeding is in substance, as it is here, a proceeding against the corporation itself, there is no sense or reason in
allowing it to abate by the change of individuals in the office.
The writ might be directed to the township clerk by his official
designation, and will not be deprived of its efficacy by inserting
his individual name. The remarks of Mr. Justice Cowen, in
People v. Collins (19 Wend. (N. Y.) 56), are very pertinent to
the case, and seem to us sound. That was a mandamus to commissioners of highways who were elected annually; and it was
objected that their term would expire before the proceedings
could be brought to a conclusion. He said: "The obligation
sought to be enforced devolves on no particular set of commissioners, and no right is in question which will expire with the
year. The duty is perpetual upon the present commissioners
and their successors; and the peremptory writ may be directed
to and enforced upon tlhe commissioners of the town generally.
To say otherwise would be a sacrifice of substance to form."
In this connection we may also refer to the recent case of Commis&ioners v. Sellew, supra.
The cases in which it has been held by this court that an
abatement takes place by the expiration of the term of office
have been those of officers of the government, whose alleged
delinquency was personal, and did not involve any charge

Oct. 1880.]

KERN v. HUIDEKOPER.

against the government whose officers they were. A proceeding
against the government would not lie. The Secretary v. Mefiarrahan, 9 Wall. 298; United States v. Boutwell, 17 id. 604.
We think that the proceedings have not abated either by the
resignation of the clerk and the appoA-'tment of a successor, or
by the expiration of his term of office, even if it sufficiently
appeared that either of these contingencies had occurred.
Judgment affirmed.

KERx v. HUIDEKOPEB.
1. A party to a suit, who, under the act of March 3, 1876, c. 137 (18 Stat., pt. 3,
p. 470), was entitled to its removal from the State court wherein it was
brought, filed in due time his petition and the requisite bond, and prayed
for such removal to the Circuit Court of the United States for the proper
di.trict. His petition was denied. Held, that, on his entering in the Cir
cuit Court, within the period prescribed by that act, the transcript of the
record, that court acquired jurisdiction of the suit, and that all subsequent
proceedings of the State court therein are absolutely void.
2 A sheriff, to whom was directed a fierl.facias sued upon a judgment against
A., levied the writ upon certain goods and chattels, for which replevin was
brought in a State court against him by B., a non-resident of the State,
claiming to be the owner of them. Held, that there is nothing in the character of the suit which precludes its removal by B. to the Circuit Court.
3 Where a State court, proceeding to the trial of a suit which had been removed therefrom, renders judgment against the party, whose petition for
a removal it erred in refusing to grant, he may raise here the question as
to the jurisdiction of that court, notwithstanding the fact that he appeared
at the trial and insisted upon the merits of his cause of action or defence.
4 WhEre a party, pursuant to leave, files a plea to the jurisdiction of the court,
his former plea to the merits is thereby withdrawn.

EReoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Edwin WYalker for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Henry Crawford, contra.
MRi. JUSTICE WOODS delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action of replevin brought by Frederick W.
Ituidekoper, John N. Dennison, and Thomas W. Shannon, in

