Oct. 1880.]

WILSON v. GAINES.

think that the declaration and proceedings as exhibited by the
record are not obnoxious to any just exception.
The form of the verdict is defective, it is true, finding "that
the defendant is guilty in manner and form as alleged in the
declaration;" but this is a mere clerical error properly amendable. It substantially finds the issue made by the pleadings.
The declaration was in assumpsit; the plea was a general
denial of the allegations of the declaration, equivalent to a plea
of nvo asswal).Yit, with notice of special matter. The verdict in
effect says that the defendant did promise and violate its
promise, as alleged in the declaration.
We think there is no error in the record.
Judgrnent affirmel.

WIISON v. GANEs.
1. A party who, under proceedings to enforce the statutory hen of the State 01
Tennessee, purcha-es a railroad does not acquire therewith the immunity
from taxation thereon n hich the railroad company posessed.
2. Where the caze stands on demurrer to his bill, which prays that the collection
of taxes on the property be restrained, and avers that the sale was under
thowe proceedings, this court will not, in the absence of a particular allegation to the contrary, presume that the sale embraced anything not covered
by that lien.
3. Morgan v. Lrfdsiana (93 U. S. 217) cited and approved.

ERnor, to the Supreme Court of the State of Tennessee.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Milr. Edward Baxter, for the plaintiff in error.
No counsel appeared for the defendant in error.
MR. CuIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This was a bill in equity filed in the Chancery Court of
Nashville, Tenn., to enjoin the collection of taxes upon that
part of the railroad of the St. Louis and Southwestern Railway Company which was originally owned by the Edgefield
and Kentucky Railroad Company. The facts are these :On the 11th of December, 1845, the General Assembly of
VOL. XIII.

27

WILSON V. GAINES.

[Sup. Ct.

Tennessee chartered the Nashville and Chattanooga Railroad
Company for the purpose of building a railroad from Nashville
to Chattanooga. The thirty-eighth section of that charter is
as follows: -

"The capital stock of said company shall be forever exempt
from taxation, and the road, with all its fixtures and appurtenances,
including workshops, warehouses, and vehicles of transportation,
shall be exempt from taxation for the period of twenty years from
the completion of the road, and no longer."
On the 1st of January, 1852, the Nashville and Southern
Railroad Company was incorporated to construct another line
of road, and was to "have all the rights, powers, and privileges,
and be subject to all the liabilities and restrictions, prescribed
in the charter of the Nashville and Chattanooga Railroad Company," with a single exception, 'hich is unimportant for any
of the purposes of this case.
On the 13th of February, 1852, the Edgefield and Kentucky
Railroad Company was incorporated to build a road from Nashville to the Kentucky State line, with the following as the sixth
section of its charter: " That the company hereby incorporated is invested, for the
purpose of making and using said road, with all the powers, rights,
and privileges, and subject to all the liabilities and restrictions,
that are conferred and imposed on the Nashville and Chattanooga
Railroad Company by an act passed on the 11th of December, 1845,
so far as the same are not inconsistent with the provisions of this
act."
By an act of the General Assembly of the State passed Feb.
11, 1852, entitled "An Act to establish a system of internal improvement in this State," the governor was authorized to issue
under circumstances therein mentioned to certain railroad companies the bonds of the State for the purpose of aiding in the
completion of their respective roads; and it was further provided that upon such issue and the completion of the road the
State should "be invested with a lien, without a deed from the
company, upon the entire road, including the stock, right of
way, grading, bridges, masonry, iron rails, spikes, chairs, and
the whole superstructure and equipments, and all the property

Oct. 1880.]

WILSON

v.

GAINES.

owned by the company as incident to, or necessary for, its
business, and all depots and depot stations, for the payment of
all said bonds issued to said company as provided in this act,
and for the interest accruing on said bonds." Acts of 185152, c. 151, sects. 1, 4, pp. 204-206. On the 8th of February,
1851 , the privileges of this act were extended to the Edgefield
and Kentucky Railroad Company. Acts of 1853-54, c. 131,
sect. 1, p. 205.
Afterwards, on the 15th of December, 1855, the charter of
the Edgefield and Kentucky company was amended, and the
following is sect. 2 of that amendment:
"That the said company shall be entitled to all the rights and
privileges that were conferred upon the Nashville and Southern
Railroad Company, by an act of the General Assembly of the' State
of Tennessee, passed Jan. 1, 1852, entitled ' An Act to charter the
Nashville and Southern Railroad Company.'
The company availed itself of the privileges of the internal
improvement act, and subjected its property to the statutory
lien therein provided for.
Default having been made by many of the railroad companies in meeting their obligations for the bonds of the State
;,sued to them, several attempts were made to enforce the liens
on some of the roads without success, and on the 22d of December, 1670, the legislature passed an act, sections 1 and 10 of
which are as follows: "SnCT. 1. That a bill shall be immediately filed in the Chancery Court at Nashville in the name and behalf of the State, to
which all the delinquent companies, the respective stockholders,
holders of the bonds, creditors, and all persons interested in the
imad several roads, shall be made parties defendant, and shall be
brought before the court in the mode prescribed by the rules of
practice in chancery established in the State, except as otherwise
herein provided. And said court is hereby invested with exclusive
jurisdiction to hear, adjudicate, and determine all questions of law
and matters of controversy of whatever nature, whether of law or
of tact, that have arisen or that may arise touching the rights and
iterest of the State, and also of the stockholders, bondholders, creditirs, and others in said roads; and to make all such rules, orders,
ind decrees, interlocutory and final, as may be deemed necessary in

WILSON V. GAINES.

[Sup. Ct.

order to a final and proper adjustment of the rights of all the parties,
preliminary to a sale of the interest of the State in said road. Also
to declare the exact amount of indebtedness of each of said companies to the State; and likewise to define, as may be thought proper,
what shall be the rights, duties, and liabilities of a purchaser of the
State's interest in said roads, or either of them, and what shall be
the reserved rights of said companies, stockholders, and others
respectively, as against said purchasers after such sale, under the
existing laws of this State."
"SECT. 10. That upon the sale of any of the franchises of either
of the railroad companies by the commissioners under the provisions of this act, all the rights, privileges, and immunities appertaining to the franchise so sold under its act of incorporation and the
amendments thereto, and the general improvement law of the State
and acts amendatory thereof, shall be transferred to and vest in
such purchaser, and the purchaser shall hold said franchise subject
to all liens and liabilities in favor of the State, as now provided by
law against the railroad companies."
The Edgefield and Kentucky company was one of the companies in default, and it is averred in the present bill that,
"under a bill filed to foreclose the State's statutory lien upon
the road and superstructure, equipments and stock, and the
property owned by the company as incident to or necessary
for its business, &c., . . . the road, its franchises, property,

rights, privileges, immunities, &c., were sold," and the St. Louis
and Southwestern company by sundry mesne conveyances was
invested with the title. It is now contended that, under these
circumstances, the road of the Edgefield and Kentucky company, in the bands of the St. Louis and Southwestern, is exempt
from taxation until the expiration of twenty years from its
completion. The Supreme Court of the State dismissed the
bill, holding that the exemption from taxation which was
granted to the Nashville and Chattanooga company was not
one of the privileges of that company which passed to the
Edgefield and Kentucky company, either by its original or
amended charter. To reverse that decree the case has been
brought here by writ of error.
In the view we take of this case, it is unnecessary to determine the question on which the decision seems to have turned hi

Me. 1880.]

WILSON v. GAINES.

the court below, for, as we think, it has not been shown that if
the property in the hands of the original company was exempt
from taxation, that exemption passed to the purchasers at the
-ale to foreclose the State's statutory lien under which the
complainant claims. In Morgan v. Louisiana (93 U. S. 217)
we distinctly held that immunity from taxation was a personal
p'ivilege and not transferable, except with the consent or under
the authority of the legislature which granted the exemption,
or some succeeding legislature, and that such an exemption
does not necessarily attach to or run with the property after
it passes from the owner in whose favor the exemption was
granted. In that case the property in the hands of the original company was exempt from taxation. The company mortgaged its property and franchises, and under that mortgage the
pioperty and franchises were sold, pursuant to the terms of a
judicial decree; but we held that by such a sale only such franchises passed as were necessary to the operation of the company, and without which its road and works would be of little
%alue,and that consequently the property in the hands of the
purchasers was subject to taxation.
In the present case the lien of the State was put by the statute only on the property of the company. It did not even in
express terms include the franchises which were necessary to
the operation of the road. Under such circumstances, if there
were nothing more, it would seem to be clear beyond all question that a sale under the lien would not necessarily carry with
it any immunity from taxation which the property enjoyed in
the hands of the original company.
But it is contended that, as the case stands on demurrer to a
bill which contains the distinct averment that "the road, its
franchises, property, rights, privileges, immunities," &c., were
sold, it must be assumed as an admitted fact that any immunity from taxation which the old company had, passed to the
purchasers and their grantees. This averment must be taken
In connection with the further equally distinct statement in
the bill that the sale took place under proceedings instituted
n the Chancery Court of Nashville "to foreclose the State's
statutory lien," and as that lien was confined to the "property
owned by the company, or incident to, or necessary for, its

WI7SON

v. GAINES.

[Sup. Ct.

business," we will not, in the absence of a particular and positive allegation to the contrary, presume that more was sold
Than the lien covered. Mere general words of description are
not sufficient to extend a sale beyond the subject-matter of the
lien, as defined by the statute which lies at the foundation of
the entire proceeding.
We are told that a contrary doctrine is established by the case
of The Knoxville and Ohio Railroad Company v. Hicks, decided
by the Supreme Court of Tennessee at the September Term,
1877, and not yet reported, so far as we are advised, in any of
the volumes of the regular series of the reports of the court.
We do not so understand that case. There it was "distinctly
adjudged," by the Chancery Court of Nashville in the proceedings to enforce the statutory lien under which the sale was
made, "that not only the property of the old company, but all
its rights, franchises, privileges, and immunities, as defined by
the charter and laws, and the decree in the cause, passed to
and vested in the new company," which was the purchaser.
Nothing of the kind is found in this case. It is nowhere
stated what the decree of the court was, but only what was
sold; and inasmuch as the jurisdiction of the court was, by the
terms of the act of 1870, expressly confined to an adjudication
of matters of controversy "touching the rights and interest of
the State, and also of stockholders, bondholders, creditors, and
others in said roads," and to defining "what shall be the rights,
duties, and liabilities of a purchaser of the State's interest in
said roads, . . . and what shall be the reserved rights of said
companies, stockholders, and others respectively, as against such
purchasers after such sale, under the existing laws of the State,"
it would be against all the settled rules of construction to hold,
upon the face of the statute alone, that more was sold than the
lien to be adjudicated upon implied.
We are all of opinion, therefore, without deciding whether
the property in the hands of the Edgefield and Kentucky Company was exempt, that the decree below dismissing the bill
should be affirmed; and it is
So ordere&

