Oct. 1880,]

SCHOOL DISTRIcT V. INSURANCE CO.

SCHOOL DISTRICT V. INSURANCE COMPANY.
The act of the legislature of Nebraska approved Feb. 2, 1875, entitled "An Act
authorizing School District Number 56, of Richardson County, to issue
bonds for the purpose of erecting a school building, procuring a site there
for, and for setting apart a fund to pay the same," is void, it being in conflict
with sect. 1, art. 8, of the Constitution of that State of 1866-67, which
declares that "the legislature shall pass no special act conferring corporate
powers."

EBROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Nebraska.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. E. Estabrook, for the plaintiff in error.
Mir. Willard P. Hall, eontra.
AIR. JUsTiCE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant in error recovered a judgment in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Nebraska against
the plaintiff in error for the sum of $2,554.70. The judges of
the Circuit Court certified a difference of opinion on three
questions of law arising in the case, only one of which is necessary to be considered here, namely: "Whether the said act of
the legislature of Nebraska, approved Feb. 2, 1875, recited in
the bonds (the coupons of which are in suit), is in conflict with
sect. 1 of art. 8 of the Constitution of the State, because the
same is a special act conferring corporate powers; and also
whether it is in conflict with sect. 19 of art. 2 of the Constitution of the State because it contains more than one subject."
Indeed, we only propose to consider the first branch of this
double question. Sect. 1, art. 8, of the Constitution of Nebraska of 1866-67 reads thus: "The legislature shall pass no
special act conferring corporate powers."
The act of Feb. 2, 1875, is entitled "An Act authorizing
School District Number 56, of Richardson County, to issue
bonds for the purpose of erecting a school building, procuring
;I site therefor, and for setting apart a fund to pay the same."
it authorized the school board to issue bonds to the amount
.f $20,000, payable in ten or twenty years, with ter, per cent

SCHOOL DISTRICT V. INSURANCE

u0. ML
[Sup.

per annum interest, for that purpose, and required a vote of a
majority of the electors of the district before they could be
issued. It forbade the sale of these bonds at less than eightyfive cents on the dollar. It also enacted that all the penalties
and forfeitures thereafter imposed, for any breach of the ordinances of Falls City, and all money for licenses to sell or traffic
in liquors, or any other commodity or license to transact other
business, should be paid over to the board of trustees of the
school district, as well as all fines imposed by the police judge
of said city.
The bonds on which the judgment in this case was rendered
were issued under this act, and it was so recited on their face.
That this was a special act is not denied. Nor can it be controverted successfully that it confers corporate powers. The
power to make a contract of this character, to collect the taxes
necessary to pay the debt, to contract for and superintend and
pay for the building, to receive the fund mentioned from the
authorities of Falls City, are all in their nature corporate acts
when performed by a body possessing corporate powers.
The statutes of Nebraska then in force declare that "every
duly organized school district shall be a body corporate, and
possess all the usual powers of a corporation for public purposes,"... "and may sue and be sued, purchase, hold, and sell
such personal and real estate as the law allows." The power
conferred by the act of 1875 on School District No. 56 was
conferred on a corporation, and was to be exercised by it as a
corporation. It is, therefore, a corporate power, and was conferred, if at all, by a special act.
In response to this it is said that a school district is only a
quasi corporation, and does not come within the constitutional
provision. What is meant by the words "quasi corporation," as
used in the authorities, is not always very clear. It is a phrase
generally applied to a body which exercises certain functions
of a corporate character, but which has not been created a corporation by any statute, general or special.
Such is not the case here, for the language of the Nebraska
statute makes school districts corporations in the fullest sense
of the word.
It is next argued that the constitutional provision was only

Oct. 1880.]

SCHOOL DISTRICT V. INSURANCE CO.

intended to apply to private corporations, as distinguished from
those which are part of the body politic, such as counties and
towns.
But we see no warrant for this distinction.
There is certainly nothing in the words of the provision to
suggest any such distinction or limitation. Nor do we see any
reason why the local corporate bodies discharging public functions should not be go 7erned by general and uniform laws as
well as those for private enterprises. In fact, the weight of the
argument seems to be the other way, for it can very well be
seen that the aggregation of individual capital and energy into
an associated organization may require different powers for
each enterprise so established, while the powers to be exercised
by cities, towns, townships, and school districts in the same
State may or should be uniform in character all over the State.
If any such rule is defensible at all, of which it is not our province to judge, its application to the latter class of corporations
seems the more appropriate of the two.
The Constitution of the State of Ohio has a provision similar
to that of the State of Nebraska relied on in this case. In the
case of State v. Cineinnat! (20 Ohio St. 18), the Supreme Court
of that State held that in the purview of the constitutional
provision there was no distinction between private and municipal corporations. To the same effect is the decision of the
same court in Atkinsonz v. MI.J (. Railroad Co., 15 id. 21. The
Supreme Court of Nebraska, in Olegg v. School -District(8 Neb.
178), held that the statute under which these bonds were
issued was void, because forbidden by this clause of the State
Constitution.
We are of opinion that this is a sound construction of the
Constitution, and that, as to the first question certified to us, it
must be answered that the act of Feb. 2, 1875, under which
these bonds issued, is in conflict with the Constitution of the
State, and is, therefore, void.
We are asked, however, to affirm the judgment because the
bonds may be held valid under the powers conferred on school
districts by the general statutes.
We are, however, of a different opinion. The general statute
had other conditions for creating a debt than the special act

THE "CONNECTICUT."

LSup. Ct-

mentioned on the face of these bonds. This statute provided n
fund which might of itself be sufficient to pay the debt without
resort to taxation. The vote of the electors might not have
been obtained under the general statute. And as the bonds
recite that they were issued under this act, and that the vote
was taken under it, we cannot see that power purposed to be
exercised under other and very different circumstances can be
invoked to give validity to an act which is void by the authority under which it professed to be acting.
These views render it unnecessary to answer the other questions certified to us. The judgment of the Circuit Court will
be reversed, and the case remanded to that court for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
So ordered.

0 NE
THE "1Cox
cno u T ."

Tim "S. A. STEvFNs."
THE " OTHELLo."
The court, upon the facts set forth in the opinion, holds that two ve selfl were
in fault, in a collision whereby a boat towed by one of them was sunk, and
affirms the decree of the court below apportioning the loss between them.
APPEALS from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of New York.
Mr. Cornelius Van Santvoord for the "Connecticut.
Mr. Abraham Van Santvoord for the "S. A. Stevens."
Mr. Welcome B. Beebe for the " Othello."
Mr. Henry T. Wing, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The question in these appeals is, whether, on the facts found,
the decree below was light. The facts in brief are as follows:
"About five o'clock in the morning of Wednesday, Aug. 18,
1875, the steamer "Connecticut," assisted by the tug "6S. -A4

