LINCOLN V. IRiON CO.

[Sup. Ci.

We are of opinion that both by reason of the Statute of Limitations and the general doctrine of laches, in failing to tender
his certificates in due time and assert a rescission of the contract,
the demurrer was well taken.
Decree a.ffimed.

Lixco,

v. IRox CoapAI-y.

L Where a municipal corporation, being thereunto authorized upon the per.
formance of certain prerequisites, has issued its bonds, which get into circulation as commercial securities, -Held, that they are Primafaeie binding on
the corporation according to the terms and conditions expressed on their
face, and that, in an action on them, or the coupons thereto attached, the
plaintiff need not aver such performance.
2. Want of such performance, when in any case available to defeat a recovery,
must be set up by the corporation.
3. A verdict cures a defective statement of a title or cause of action.
4. A verdict in assumpsit, the plea being non assumpsft, "that the defendant
is guilty in manner and form as alleged in the declaration," is amendable, and judgment may be rendered thereon for the damages thereby
assessed.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Michigan.
This was an action brought by the Cambria Iron Company
against the township of Lincoln, a body corporate and politic,
in the county of Berrien, created under the laws of Michigan.
Judgment was rendered for the plaintiff, and the township sued
out this writ of error.
The facts are fully stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. J. PF. Severens for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. M J. Smiley for the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE, BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The principal question raised in this case by the assignment
of errors is as to the sufficiency of the first and second counts
of the declaration.
These counts are upon certain bonds
alleged to have been made and executed by the township of
Lincoln, in the county of Berrien, aud State of Michigan, in

Oct. 1880.]

LiICoLN V. IRON Co.

aid of a railroad company; and the objection made to them is
that they do not aver that an election was held to authorize
the issue of the bonds, as required by law, and do not aver
various other prerequisites to such issue. The question is
whether the omission to make these averments is error.
The law from which the authority of the township to issue
bonds is derived was passed March 22, 1869, and was entitled
"An Act to enable any township, city, or village to pledge its
aid, by loan or donation, to any railroad company," &c.
The first section declared that it should be lawful for any
township or city to pledge its aid to any railroad company
chartered or organized under and by virtue of the lawg of the
State of Michigan, in the construction of its road, by loan or
donation, with or without conditions, for such sum or sums not
exceeding ten per cent of the assessed value of the property
in such township or city, as a majority of its electors voting
should, at a meeting called for that purpose, determine. The
second section prescribed the manner of calling the election,
and giving notice thereof. The third section directed the manner in which the elections should be conducted, and the recording of the proceedings on the records of the township or city.
The fourth section authorized the issue of coupon bonds for
the amount of aid voted, and prescribed the form of the bonds
and the manner of their execution; if issued by a township
they were to be executed by the supervisor and township clerk,
and under the seal of the township if it had one. Subsequent
sections directed that the bonds when executed should be delivered to the State treasurer as trustee for the municipality
and the railroad company; that the treasurer should record
them in a book so as to show their amount, date, number, &c.;
and that lie should deliver them out to the railroad company
whenever the company should present a certificate of the governor of the State that it had complied with the provisions of
the act, and was entitled to the bonds; that upon delivering
them le should indorse upon each bond the date of delivery,
and notify the clerk of the township or city; and that the
township or city should levy the necessary taxes to meet the
interest and principal as they became due. The eleventh section provided that no bonds should be delivered to the railroad

414

LiNCOLN V. IRoN Co.

[Sup. Ct

company until it should have complied with the conditions
voted, and completed its road throujh or into the township or
city concerned, according as the charter required, and thence to
its terminus or to some connecting line of railroad; or, if not
touching such township or city, then that it should have completed its road through the adjoining municipality, or for a
certain number of miles adjoining the nearest terminus.
The declaration, after referring to this statute, and stating
the organization of the Chicago and Michigan Lake Shore
Railroad Company under the laws of Michigan, having for its
object the construction of a railroad from New Buffalo through
and beyond the township of Lincoln, proceeds, in the first
count, to aver that on the 1st of June, 1869, the township,
acting under and in accordance with the authority conferred
upon it by said act of the legislature, made a donation to said
railroad company, and for that purpose made and executed four
certain bonds, payable to the said company or bearer (describing them), which bonds were duly delivered to the company, as
provided in the act; that the plaintiff (the Cambria Iron Company) on a certain day named, and before the maturity of the
bonds, became and is now the owner, holder, and bearer of said
bonds for value; and that the bonds are due and have not been
paid. The second count describes four other bonds issued by
the township under the authority given to it by the said act as
a further donation to the said railroad company, and certain
interest coupons attached to said bonds and payable to bearer,
of which it is stated the plaintiff became the lawful owner and
holder for value before maturity, and which have become due
and have not been paid. The declaration contained also the
common money counts. The defendant pleaded in abatement
want of service of process; to which plea a demurrer was put
in and sustained by default, for want of a joinder in demurrer.
The defendant also pleaded the general issue, and gave notice
of several special defences; as, that the Chicago and Michigan
Lake Shore Railroad Company, and not the defendant, was
owner of the bonds; that whatever of indebtedness was referred
to in the declaration arose by reason of a vote of certain of
the electors of the township to aid in the construction of the
railroad of the Chicago and Michigan Lake Shore Railroad

Oct. 1880.]

LINCOLN 1,. IRON Co.

Company; that the bonds in suit were delivered to said company in fraud of the township; and "that when said bonds
and the coupons for interest were so delivered, the roadbed of said railroad was not completed; that through said
township of Lincoln the culverts were not built, nor were the
bridges done or completed, nor was said railroad fenced, nor
were the ties laid down, nor was the iron laid thereon, nor had
the road crossings been completed, nor the cattle-guards constructed."
The cause came on for trial, and the following is the record
of the proceedings which subsequently took place: This cause having been called for trial, the following jury
was called and sworn, to wit: [giving the names of the jurors],
who sat together ifi the jury box and heard the evidence this
day adduced, the arguments of counsel, and the charge of the
court, and without leaving their seats say upon their oath that
the defendant is guilty in manner and form as alleged! in the
declaration, and assess its damages at the sum of $6,273.32 over
and above its costs and charges. It is therefore considered by
the court that the said plaintiff do recover against the said defendant the said sum so assessed, together with its costs and
charges to be taxed, and that it have execution therefor.
We think it very clear that after a verdict upon the issues
presented by this record, the omission in the declaration to
state the holding of the election and the occurrence of the other
preliminary facts which the law required to precede the issuing
of the bonds, cannot be regarded as error. It is a rule of ti e
common law that where there is any defect or omission in i
pleading, whether in substance or form, which would have been
fatal on denmurrer, yet, if the issue joined be such as necessarily
required on the trial proof of the facts so defectively stated or
omitted, and without which it is not to be presumed that the
judge would have directed the jury to give the verdict, such
defect or omission is cured. 1 Wins. Saund. 228. Or, as it
has been tersely put, a verdict cures a defective statement of
a title or cause of action, but not the statement of a defective
title or cause of action. Id. 228 e, note. The declaration in
this case states that the defendant, the township of Lincoln,
acting under and in accordance with the authority conferred

LINCOLN V. IRON CO.

[Sup. Ct.

by the act, made a certain donation to the railroad company,
and for that purpose did make and execute the bonds in question; that the bonds were afterward duly delivered to the company as provided in the act; and that the plaintiff before
maturity became the owner thereof for value. The defendant
denied all this, and also set up special defences, that the transfer was fraudulent, that the road was never built as required
before the delivery of the bonds, &c. Now if the township
could only make the donation alleged by way of an election
duly held, it was the duty of the court below to require proof
of this fact, as well as of the other facts necessarily involved in
the issue as made, and it will be presumed that this was done.
What proof was sufficient for this purpose it is not necessary
to decide, as no exception was taken on tha, point.
But we do not think that there was any defect in the declaration to be cured. We think that it would have been good
on demturrer. The township had authority by law to issue its
bonds by way of donation to a railroad. It did issue its bonds.
They got into circulation as commercial securities, and were
purchased by the plaintiff. All the plaintiff had to do in case
of non-payment was simply to sue on the bonds. If there was
any defence to them by reason of want of performance of any
of the requisites necessary to give them validity, or for any
other cause, it was for the defendant to show it. A bond,
especially a negotiable bond, is a prima facie obligation of the
obligor, if he has capacity to make it; and is binding according
to the terms and conditions apparent on its face until the contrary be shown. Whether an alleged defence, when set up, is
or is not good against the particular holder, is to be determined
by the court in each case. How far, as against a bona fide
holder, the obligor may, in any case, go behind the obligation
itself, for the purpose of showing a failure to pursue the law
authorizing its issue, is not yet, perhaps, clearly determined.
Here the defendant township had opportunity to set up any
defence. It denied all the averments of the declaration, and
also gave notice of the non-performance of certain conditions
to be performed by the railroad company preliminary to the
issue of the bonds. The verdict was against the defendont,
and no erroneous rulings at the trial are complained of We

Oct. 1880.]

WILSON v. GAINES.

think that the declaration and proceedings as exhibited by the
record are not obnoxious to any just exception.
The form of the verdict is defective, it is true, finding "that
the defendant is guilty in manner and form as alleged in the
declaration;" but this is a mere clerical error properly amendable. It substantially finds the issue made by the pleadings.
The declaration was in assumpsit; the plea was a general
denial of the allegations of the declaration, equivalent to a plea
of nvo asswal).Yit, with notice of special matter. The verdict in
effect says that the defendant did promise and violate its
promise, as alleged in the declaration.
We think there is no error in the record.
Judgrnent affirmel.

WIISON v. GANEs.
1. A party who, under proceedings to enforce the statutory hen of the State 01
Tennessee, purcha-es a railroad does not acquire therewith the immunity
from taxation thereon n hich the railroad company posessed.
2. Where the caze stands on demurrer to his bill, which prays that the collection
of taxes on the property be restrained, and avers that the sale was under
thowe proceedings, this court will not, in the absence of a particular allegation to the contrary, presume that the sale embraced anything not covered
by that lien.
3. Morgan v. Lrfdsiana (93 U. S. 217) cited and approved.

ERnor, to the Supreme Court of the State of Tennessee.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Milr. Edward Baxter, for the plaintiff in error.
No counsel appeared for the defendant in error.
MR. CuIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This was a bill in equity filed in the Chancery Court of
Nashville, Tenn., to enjoin the collection of taxes upon that
part of the railroad of the St. Louis and Southwestern Railway Company which was originally owned by the Edgefield
and Kentucky Railroad Company. The facts are these :On the 11th of December, 1845, the General Assembly of
VOL. XIII.

27

