PREWIT V. WILSON.

LSup. Ct.

PREWIT v. WILSON.
1. A conveyance executed for a valuable and adequate consideration will be
upheld against the creditors of the grantor, however fraudulent his purpose may have been, if the grantee had no knowledge thereof.
2. An ante-nuptial settlement of lands, though made by the settler with the
design of defrauding his creditors, will not be set aside in the absence of
the clearest proof of his intended wife's participation in the fraud.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Alabama.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

1'. John T. Morgan for the appellants.
Mr. P. P. Ward, contra.
delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 27th of April, 1866, Mrs. Josephine Prewit was a
widow, only twenty years of age. Her husband was the late
John Prewit. Not many months after his death another Mr.
Prewit-Richard, this time-proposed marriage to her. He
was of mature age, being in his fifty-eighth year. His proposal was rejected. He renewed it, and accompanied it with a
promise to settle upon her, if she would consent to the marriage, a large amount of property. This promise moved her
to consent. The deed of settlement was accordingly executed,
and in May following -the marriage took place. Both parties
affirm that the marriage was the only consideration for the
settlement, and it is so stated in the deed.
A little more than two years and a half afterwards, - in De
cember, 1868,-the husband was adjudged to be a bankrupt
in the District Court of the United States for the Northern
District of Alabama, in proceedings taken upon his own application; and in the following month the plaintiff was appointed
assignee of his effects, and to him an assignment was made.
The present suit is brought by him to set aside the deed of
settlement, on the alleged ground that it was executed by
Prewit to defraud his creditors.
At the time of the settlement Prewit was the holder of a
MR. JUSTICE FIELD

Oct. 1880.]

PREWIT V. WILSON.

large amount of property, consisting chiefly of lands in Alabama, but was indebted in an amount greater than their value.
It is stated that his property was not worth more than $50,000,
and that his debts exceeded $70,000.
It would seem from the evidence, and we assume it to be a
fact, that he was insolvent at the time he executed the deed of
settlement, in the sense that his debts largely exceeded the
value of his property. It may also be taken as true, so far as
the present suit is concerned, that he intended by the deed to
hinder, delay, and defraud his creditors, and that he made the
settlement to place his property beyond their reach.
There is no evidence that Mrs. Prewit was aware at the
time of the amount of property he held, or of the extent of his
debts, or that he had any purpose in the execution of the deed
except to induce her to consent to the marriage. It is not at
all likely, judging from the ordinary motives governing men,
that whilst pressing his suit with her, and offering to settle
property upon her to obtain her consent to the marriage, he
informed her that he was insolvent, and would, by the deed he
proposed to execute, defraud his creditors. If he intended to
commit the fraud imputed to him, it is unreasonable to suppose
that he would, by unfolding his scheme, expose his true character to one whose good opinion he was at that time anxious
to secure. If capable of the fraud charged, he was capable
of deceiving Mrs. Prewit as to his pecuniary condition. She
states in her answer that she knew he was embarrassed and in
debt, but to what extent or to whom she did not know, and
that it was because of the knowledge that he was embarrassed
that she insisted upon his making a settlement upon her. The
deed itself shows that he owed a large sum, for of the 6,770
acres of land embraced by it, 2,185 acres were charged with the
payment of certain designated debts to the amount of $18,000.
A knowledge of these facts justified her in saying that she knew
he was embarrassed; but they rather dispelled than created
any suspicion that he had a design to defraud his creditors.
Her statements do not warrant the inference of knowledge of
any such purpose, much less of any assent to its execution.
Besides the property charged in the deed with the payment
Df the large amount of indebtedness mentioned, he owned

PREWIT V. WILSON.

LSup. Ct.

4,700 acres of land not included in it, and personal property
of the value of several hundred dollars.
When a deed is executed for a valuable and adequate consideration, without knowledge by the grantee of any fraudulent
intent of the grantor, it will be upheld, however fraudulent his
purpose. To vitiate the transfer in such case, the grantee also
must be chargeable with knowledge of the intention of the
grantor.
Now, marriage is not only a valuable consideration, but, as
Coke says, there is no other consideration so much respected
in the law. Bishop justly observes, that "Marriage is attended and followed by pecuniary consequences; by happiness
or misery to the parties; by life to unborn children; by unquiet or repose to the State; by what money ordinarily buys
and by what no money can buy, to an extent which cannot be
estimated or expressed, except by the word 'infinite.' To say,
therefore, that it is to be regarded, where it is the inducement
to any contract, as a valuable consideration, is to utter truth,
yet only a part of the truth." And, also, that " Marriage is to
be ranked among the valuable considerations, yet it is distinguishable from most of these in not being reducible to a value
which can be expressed in dollars and cents, while still it is in
general terms of the very highest value." Law of Married
Women, sects. 775, 776. Such is the purport and language
running through all the decisions, both in England and in this
country, with reference to marriage as a consideration for an
ante-nuptial settlement. Barrow v. Barrow, 2 Dick. 504;
Nairn v. Prowse, 6 Yes. Jr. 752; Campion v. Cotton, 17 id.
264; Starry v. Arden, 1 Johns. (N. Y.) Oh. 261 ; Herring v.
Wiekham, 29 Gratt. (Va.) 628.
In l'lagniac v. Thompson this court said that "Nothing can
be clearer, both upon principle and authority, than the doctrine that to make an ante-nuptial settlement void, as a fraud
upon creditors, it is necessary that both parties should concur
in oi have cognizance of the intended fraud. If the settler
alone intend a fraud and the other party have no notice of
it, but is innocent of it, she is not and cannot be affected
by it. Marriage, in contemplation of the law, is not only a
valuable consideration to support such a settlement, but is

00t. 1880.]

INSURANCE

CO. V. STINSON.

a consideration of the highest value, and from motives of the
sCA11dest policy is upheld with a steady resolution." 7 Pet.
348, 393.
The same doctrine is asserted by the Supreme Court of Alabarnt, in which State the parties to the deed of settlement
reside and in which it was executed. Andrews v. Jones, 10
Ala. 400.
According to these authorities there can be no question of
the validity of the settlement in this case. There is an entire
absence of elements which would vitiate even an ordinary
transaction of sale where, if set aside, the parties may be
placed in their former positions. And an ante-nuptial settlement, though made with a fraudulent design by the settler,
should not be annulled without the clearest proof of the wife's
participafion in the intended fraud, for upon its annulment
there can follow no dissolution of the marriage, which was the
consideration of the settlement.
It follows that the decree of the court below must be reversed, and the cause remanded with directions to dismiss the
bill of complaint; and it is
So ordered.

INSURANCE

COMPANY V. STINSON.

1 The owner of the equity of redemption has an insurable interest equal to the
value of the buildings on the land.
2. A party having a mechanic's lien on buildings by him erected on land then
covered by mortgage has an insurable interest, limited only by their value
and the amount of his claim. His discontinuance of his suit to enforce
the lien after their destruction is not matter of defence to his action on
the policy.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Massachusetts.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Arf. Charles T. Russell and rf. Charles T. Russell, Jr., for
the plaintiff in error.
[1r. Robert 1). ,S'mth, eontra.

