MILES V. UNITED

[Sup. ot.

STATES.

principle that Eldredge's discharge inured to the benefit of
the defendants, can now avail themselves of the transcripts, is
one dependent very largely on the practice of the courts of the
State. The Court of Appeals rests its decision on the ground
that the pleading does not set out or rely on the assignment or
on the rights vested by it in the assignee, and it says very
juftly, that if any such issue had been made, the plaintiffs
might have had a sufficient reply, which they were not called
on to produce as the pleadings stand.
We concur with that court in holding that the existence of
an assignee, or of any right of such assignee to the property or
the claims asserted in this suit, is not raised by this record.
Judgment afflrmed.

MILES v. UNITED STATES.
1. On an indictment for bigamy, the first marriage may be proved by the admissions of the prisoner, and it is for the jury to determine whether what
he said was an admission that he was actually and legally married accoding to the laws of the country where the marriage was solemnized.
2. As long as the fact of his first marriage is contested, the second wife is an
incompetent witness. Where it has by other evidence been duly established
to the satisfaction of the court, she may be admitted to prove her marriage
with him.
. On the trial of such an indictment, the United States challenged a juror for
"actual bias." Three triers, appointed by the court conformably to the
law of Utah, where the indictment was found, tried the challenge, and
declared it to be true. Rield, that their decision being by that law final,
he was properly excluded from the panel.
4. Against the objection of the prisoner, jurors were interrogated by the United
States as to their belief that the practice of polygamy is in obedience to the
divine will and command. Hed, that the objection was properly overruled.
5. This court cannot re-examine questions of fact upon a writ of error.
6. In a criminal case, the evidence upon which the jury are justified in finding a
verdict of guilty must be sufficient to satisfy them of the prisoner's guilt
beyond a reasonable doubt. Held, that the instruction by the court of
original jurisdiction upon this point (infra, p. 309) furnishes him no just
ground of exception.

EPRor to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Oct. 1880.3

MILES V. UNITED STATES.

31r. Arthur Brown, 11r. W. IV Dwsenberry, and M1Tr.
Hoge for the plaintiff in error.
31r. Assistant Attorney- General Smith, contra.

.D

JUSTICE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.
Sect. 5352 of the Revised Statutes of the United States

MR.

declares: -

"Every person having a husband or wife living, who maties another, whether married or single, in a Territory or other place over
which the United States has exclusive jurisdiction, is guilty of
bigamy, and shall be punished by a fine of not more than five
hundred dollars and by imprisonment for a term not more than five
years."
The plaintiff in error was indicted under this section in the
Third District Court of Utah, at Salt Lake City. He was convicted. He appealed to the Supreme Court of the Territory,
where the judgment of the District Court was affirmed.
That judgment is now brought to this court for review upon
writ of error.
The indictment charged that the plaintiff in error, John
Miles, did, on Oct. 24, 1878, at Salt Lake County, in the Territory of Utah, marry one Emily Spencer, and that afterwards,
and while he was so married to Emily Spencer, and while she
-vas still living, did, on the same day and at the same county,
marry one Caroline Owens, the said Emily Spencer, his former
wife, being still living and at that time his legal wife.
The criminal procedure of Utah is regulated by an act of the
territorial legislature, passed Feb. 22, 1878. The following are
the sections pertinent to this case, which prescribe the rules for
the impanelling of juries: "SEcT. 241. A particular cause of challenge is "1. For such a bias as, when the existence of the facts is ascertained, in judgment of law, disqualifies the juror, and which is known
in this act as implied bias.
"2. For the existence of a state of mind on the part of the
juror which leads to a just inference, in reference to the case, that
he will not act with entire impartiality, which is known in this act as
actual bias.
VOL. XXXi.

20

MILES V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. C

"SECT. 246. If the facts are denied, the challenge must be tried
as follows: (1.) If it be for implied bias, by the court; (2.) If it
be for actual bias, by triers."
" SECT. 247. The triers are three impartial persons, not on the
jury panel, appointed by the court. All challenges for actual bias
must be tried by three triers thus appointed, a majority of whom
may decide."
"S3ECT. 249. Upon the trial of a challenge to an in ividual juror,
the juror challenged may be examined as a witness to prove or dis.
prove the challenge, and must answer every question pertinert to
the inquiry."

"SHcT. 250. Other witnesses may also be examined on either

side, and the rules of evidence applicable to the trial of other issues
govern the admission or exclusion of evidence on the trial of the
challenge.'
"SECT. 252. On the trial of a challenge for actual bias, when
the evidence is concluded, the court must instruct the triers that it
is their duty to find the challenge true, if, in their opinion, the evidence warrants the conclusion that the juror has such a bias against
the party challenging him as to render him not impartial; and that
if, from the evidence, they believe him free from such bias, they
must find the challenge not true; that a hypothetical opinion unaccompanied with malice or ill-will, founded on hearsay or information supposed to be true, is of itself no evidence of bias sufficient
to disqualify a juror. The court can give no other instruction."
"SECT. 253. The triers must thereupon find the challenge either
true or not true, and their decision is final. If they find it true,
the juror must be excluded."
Upon the trial of the case in the District Court of the Territory, Oscar Dunn and Robert Patrick were called as jurors.
They were challenged for actual bias, and sworn upon their
voire dire. Three triers were appointed by the court to pass
upon the challenges to the jurors. Dunn, in answer to questions propounded to him, testified that he believed polygamy to
be right, that it was ordained of God, and that the revelations
concerning it were revelations from God, and that those revelations should be obeyed, and that he who acted on them should
not be convicted by the law of the land.
The juror was challenged by the prosecution "for actual
bias for the existence of a state of mind on his part which led

Oct. 1880.]

MILES V. UNITED STATES.

to a just inference that he would not act with entire impar
tiality."
The triers found the challenge true, and the juror was rejectedl.

Robert Patrick was examined on his voire dire, and testified
that he believed that the revelation given to Joseph Smith
touching polygamy came from God, that it was one of God's
laws to his people, and that he who practised polygamy, conscientiously believing that revelation to be from God, was doing
Goil's will. He also testified that, in his opinion, the law of
Congress was in conflict with that law of God; that Congress
had the right to pass such a law ; and that on the trial of a periinwho was in the practice of polygamy charged with bigamy
hle would consider it his duty, if satisfied by the evidence, to
find the defendant guilty, and that he would do so.
The juror was challenged for actual bias, and the triers found
the. challenge true. and the juror was excused. A large number of other jurors were examined and challenged, and excused
on the same grounds.
Upon the trial, evidence was given tending to show that a
short time before the date laid in the indictment, Oct. 24,
1874, the plaintiff in error was in treaty for marrying, at or
about the same time, three young women, namely, Emily
Spencer, Caroline Owens, and Julia Spencer, and that there
was a discussion between them on the question which should
be the first wife; and that upon appeal to John Taylor, president of the Mormon Church, the plaintiff in error and the
three women being present, it was decided by him that Emily
Spencer, being the eldest, should be the first wife; Caroline
Owens, being the next younger, the second; and Julia Spencer,
being the youngest, the third wife; -that being according to
the rules of the church.
It appeared further that marriages of persons belonging to
the Mormon Church usually take place at what is called the
Endowment House; that the ceremony is performed in secret,
and the person who officiates is under a sacred obligation not
to disclose the names of the parties to it.
It further appeared that on Oct. 24, 1878, the plaintiff in
error was married to the said Caroline Owens, and that on the

MILES V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

night of that day he gave a wedding supper at the house of one
Cannon, at which were present Emily Spencer, Caroline Owens,
and others. Evidence tending to establish these facts having
been given to the jury, the court permitted to be given in evidence the declarations made by the plaintiff in error, on that
night, in presence of the company assembled, and on subse
quont occasions, to the effect that Emily Spencer was his first
wife.
Sect. 1604 of the Compiled Laws of Utah declares: "A hus.
band shall not be a witness for or against his wife, nor a wife a
witness for or against her husband."
Upon the trial, and after the evidence above recited had
been given, tending, as the prosecution claimed, to prove the
marriage of the plaintiff in error to Emily Spencer just before
his marriage to Caroline Owens, the latter was offered as a witness against him to prove the same fact.
Thereupon the defendant admitted, in open court, the charge
of the indictment that he had been married to Caroline Owens,
and even offered testimony to prove it; but this was ruled out
by the court.
The defendant, therefore, objected to the introduction of
Caroline Owens as a witness against him, the objection being
based on the statute just quoted.
The court overruled the objection and admitted her as a witness, and she gave testimony tending to prove the marriage-of
the plaintiff in error to Emily Spencer previous to his marriage
with the witness.
It appeared from the evidence that the name of Caroline
Owens's father was Maile, but that she had been adopted by an
uncle and aunt named Owens, and had taken their name, by
which she was called and known, but that, when she was
baptized in the Mormon Church, she was required to be baptized in her father's name, and was married to Miles under that
name.
The court, among other things, charged the jury as follows: " If you find from all the facts and circumstances pioven in
this case, and from the admissions of the defendant, or from
either, that the defendant Miles married Emily Spencer, and

Oct. 1880.]

MILES v. UNITED STATES.

while she was yet living and his wife he married Caroline
Owens, as charged in the indictment, your verdict should be
guilty.
"A legal wife cannot, but when it appears in a case that the
witness is not a legal wife, but a, bigamous or plural wife, then
she may testify against the bigamous husband, and her testimony should have just as much weight with the jury as any
other witness, if the jury believe her statements to be true.
And her evidence may be taken like the evidence of any other
witness to prove either the first or second marriage. And so
in this case you are at liberty to consider the testimony of
Miss Caroline Owens, if you find from all the evidence in the
case that she is a second and plural wife, and give it all the
weight you think it entitled to, and may use it to prove
the first marriage alleged, to wit, the marriage of defendant
and Emily Spencer, or any other fact which in your opinion
is proven by the testimony, if you believe it, as you do the testimony of any witness to prove any fact about which she has
testified.
"The prisoner's guilt must be established beyond reasonable
doubt. Proof beyond a reasonable doubt is such as will produce an abiding conviction in the mind to a moral certainty
that the fact exists that is claimed to exist, so that you feel certain that it exists. A balance of proof is not sufficient. A
juror in a criminal case ought not to condemn unless the evidence excludes from his mind all reasonable doubt; unless he
be so convinced by the evidence, no matter what the class
of the evidence, of the defendant's guilt, that a prudent man
would feel safe to act upon that conviction in matters of the
highest concern and importance to his own dearest personal
interests."
The plaintiff in error alleges as ground of error the exclusion
from the jury of Oscar Dunn, Robert Patrick, and others of
the Mormon faith. He claims that the examination of the proposed jurors, and the rulings of the court, show that it was the
deliberate purpose of the court to exclude from the jury every
one who was of the Mormon faith. He insists that neither the
c-ourt nor counsel had the right to inquire into the religious
belief of the juror.

MILES V. UNITED STATES.

E[Sup. Ct.

There is no complaint that the jury was not a fair and impartial one, or that any juror impanelled was disqualified.
Whether the exclusion of qualified jurors from the panel is
a ground for setting aside the verdict and judgment on error,
we do not find it necessary to decide.
It is insisted on behalf of the defendant in error that the
excluded jurors were not qualified to sit in the case. In impanelling the jury the court was bound to follow the law of
the Territory on that subject. Clinton v..Englebre ht, 13 Wall.
434; eeynolds v. United States, 98 U. S. 145.
The jurors excluded were objected to by the prosecution as
disqualified from serving for actual bias.
The challenge for actual bias was tried by the triers appointed by the court, in accordance with the law of the Territory. The triers found the challenge true. By the same law
their decision is declared to be final, and thereupon the jurors
challenged must be excluded. The law was carefully followed.
The jurors were found disqualified, and were, therefore, as
required by the law, excluded from the panel.
It is evident from the examination of the jurors on their voira
dire, that they believed that polygamy was ordained of God,
and that the practice of polygamy was obedience to the will of
God. At common law, this would have been ground for principal challenge of jurors of the same faith. 3 Bla. Com. 303.
It needs no argument to show that a jury composed of men entertaining such a belief could not have been free from bias or
prejudice on the trial for bigamy, of a person who entertained
the same belief, and whose offence consisted in the act of living
in polygamy. But whether the evidence of bias was sufficient
or not, it was so found by the triers, and that was conclusive.
Whether or not that bias was founded on the religious belief of the juror, is entirely immaterial, if the bias existed.
It has been held by this court, that on an indictment for bigamy it was no defence that the doctrines and practice of polygamy were a part of the religion of the accused. Beynolds v.
United States, supra.
It could not, therefore, be an invasion of the constitutiona.
or other rights of the juror called to try a party charged with
bigamy, to inquire whether he himself was living in polygamy,

Oct. 1880.J

MILES V. UNITED STATES.

and whether he believed it to be in accordance with the divine
will and command.
If the jurors themselves had no ground of complaint, it is
clear the defendant bad none.
We find nothing in the record in relation to the impanelling
of the jury which would have required the Supreme Court of
the Territory to set aside the verdict and the judgment of the
District Court.
It is next assigned for error, that the court admitted the declarations and admissions of the plaintiff in error to prove the
fact of his first marriage, and the charge of the court that the
declarations of the accused were evidence proper to be considered by the jury as tending to prove an actual marriage, and
that such marriage might be proven like any other fact, by the
admissions of the defendant, or by circumstantial evidence, and
that it was not necessary to prove it by witnesses who were
present at the ceremony.
To hold that, on an indictment for bigamy, the first marriage
can only be proven by eye-witnesses of the ceremony, is to
apply to this offence a rule of evidence not applicable to any
other.
The great weight of authority is adverse to the position of
the plaintiff in error.
In Refqiua v. Simnonsto (1 Car. & Kir. 164), it was held that,
on an indictment for bigamy, the first marriage may be proved
by the admissions of the prisoner; and it is for the jury to determine whether what he said was an admission that he had
been legally married according to the laws of the country where
the marriage was solemnized.
The same view is sustained by the following cases: Regina
v. Upton, cited in 1 Russell, Crimes (Greaves's ed.), 218;
DuLiess of Kingston's C'ase, 20 How. State Trials, 355; TruWal's Case, 1 East, P. C. 470; Cayford's Case, 7 Me. 57;
Hain's Case, 11 id. 391; State v. Libby1 , 44 id. 469; State v.
Hilton, 3 Rich. (S. C.) 434; State v. Britton, 4 McCord (S. C.),
wealth, 2 Va. Cas. 595; Norwood's Case,
256; Warner v. CoMMOn
1 East, P. C. 470; Cornznonwealtl v. Murtagh, 1 Ashm. (Pa.)
272; Regina v. N~ewton, 2 Moo. & R. 503; State v. McDonald,
25 Miss. 176; Volverton v. State, 16 Ohio, 173; State v. Seals,

MILES V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. CL

16 Ind. 362; Quin v. State, 46 id. 725; Arnold v. State, 53
Ga. 574; Cameron v. State, 14 Ala. 546; Brown v. State, 52
id. 338; Williams v. State, 44 id. 24; Commonwealth v. Jackson, 11 Bush (Ky.), 679.
The declarations of the plaintiff in error touching his marriage with Emily Spencer, admitted in evidence against him,
appear to have been deliberately and repeatedly made, and
under such circumstances as tended to show that they had reference to a formal marriage contract between him and her.
We are of opinion that the District Court committed no
error in admitting such declarations, or in its charge to the jury
concerning them.
The charge of the court defining what is meant by the phrase
"reasonable doubt" is assigned as ground of error.
The evidence upon which a jury is justified in returning a
verdict of guilty must be sufficient to produce a conviction of
guilt, to the exclusion of all reasonable doubt. Attempts to
explain the term "reasonable doubt" do not usually result in
making it any clearer to the minds of the jury. The language
used in this case, however, was certainly very favorable to the
accused, and is sustained by respectable authority. Commonwealth v. Webster, 5 Cush. (Mass.) 295; Arnold v. State, 23
Ind. 170; State v. Nash, 7 Iowa, 347; State v. Ostrander,18
id. 435; Donnelly v. State, 2 Dutch. (N. J.) 601; Winter v.
State, 20 Ala. 39 ; Giles v. State, 6 Ga. 276.
We think.there was no error in the charge of which the plaintiff in error can justly complain.
The plaintiff in error next alleges that the description of the
woman named in the indictment as the person with whom the
crime of bigamy was committed, was not sufficiently specific,
and that on the trial she turned out to be not Caroline Owens,
but Caroline Maile.
The designation of Caroline Owens as the person with whom
(lhe second marriage was contracted is clearly sufficient. If it
were not, it is too late after verdict to object. As to the fact,
the jury has found that the person whom the plaintiff in error
was charged to have married while his first wife was living, and
still his legal wife, was Caroline Owens and not Caroline Maile,
and that question is, therefore, conclusively settled by the ver-

Oct. 1880.]

MILES V. UNITED STATES.

diet. This court cannot re-examine questions of fact upon writ
of error. Rev. Stat., sect. 1011.
The plaintiff in error lastly claims that the court erred in
allowing Caroline Owens, the second wife, to give evidence
against him touching his marriage with Emily Spencer, the
alleged first wife; and in charging the jury that they might
consider her testimony, if they found from all the evidence in
the case that she was a second and plural wife.
This assignment of error, we think, is well founded.
The law of Utah declares that a husband shall not be a
witness for or against his wife, nor a wife for or against hei
husband.
The marriage of the plaintiff in error with Caroline Owens
was charged in the indictment and admitted by him upon the
trial. The fact of his previous marriage with Emily Spencer
was, therefore, the only issue in the case, and that was contested to the end of the trial. Until the fact of the marriage
of Emily Spencer with the plaintiff in error was established,
Caroline Owens was prin2afacie his wife, and she could not be
used as a witness against him.
The ground upon -which a second wife is admitted as a witness against her husband, in a prosecution for bigamy, is that
she is shown not to be a real wife by proof of the fact that the
accused had previously married another wife, who was still
living and still his lawful wife. It is only in cases where the
first marriage is not controverted, or has been duly established
by other evidence, that the second wife is allowed to testify,
and she can then be a witness to the second marriage, and
not to the first.
The testimony of the second wife to prove the only controverted issue in the case, namely, the first marriage, cannot
be given to the jury on the pretext that its purpose is to establish her competency. As her competency depends on proof of
the first marriage, and that is the issue upon which the case
turns, that issue must be established by other witnesses before
the second wife is competent for any purpose. Even then she
is not competent to prove the first marriage, for she cannot be
admitted to prove a fact to the jury which must be established
before she can testify at all.

MILES V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. 0Ot.

Witnesses who are prima faie competent, but whose corn
petency is disputed, are allowed to give evidence on their voire
dire to the court upon some collateral issue, on which their
competency depends, but the testimony of a witness who is
prima facie incompetent cannot be given to the jury upon the
very issue in the case, in order to establish his competency,
and at the same time prove the issue.
The authorities sustain these views.
Upon a prosecution for bigamy under the statute of I Jac.,
c. 11, it was said by Lord Chief Justice Hale: "The first and
true wife is not allowed to be a witness against her husband,
but I think it clear the second may be admitted to prove the
second marriage, for she is not his wife, contrary to a sudden
opinion delivered in July, 1664, at the Assizes in Surrey, in
Arthur Armstrong's case, for she is not so much as his wife de
facto." 1 Hale, P. C. 693.
So in East's Pleas of the Crown the rule is thus laid down:
"The first and true wife cannot be a witness against her hus
band, nor vice versa; but the second may be admitted to prove
the second marriage, for the first being proved she is not so
much as wife de facto, but that must be first established."
1 East, P. C. 469. The text of East is supported by the following citation of authorities : 1 Hale, P. C. 693 ; 2 M. S. Sum.
381; Ann Cheney's Case, 0. B. May, 1780, Sergt. Foster's
Manuscript.
In Peake's Evidence (Norris), 248, it is said: "It is clearly
settled that a woman who was never legally the wife of a man,
though she has been in fact married to him, may be a witness
against him; as in an indictment for bigamy, the first marriage
being proved by other witnesses, the second wife may be examined to prove the marriage with her, for she is not de jure his
wife."
Mr. Greenleaf, in his work on Evidence, vol. iii. sect. 206, says:
"If the first marriage is clearly proved and not controverted,
then the person with whom the second marriage was had may
be admitted as a witness to prove the second marriage, as well
as to other facts not tending to defeat the first or legalize the
second. There it is conceived she would not be admitted to
prove a fact showing that the first marriage was void, - such

Oct. 1880.]

MILES V. bNITED STATES.

as relationship within the degrees, or the like, - nor that the
first wife was dead at the time of the second marriage, nor
ought she to be admitted at all if the first marriage is in controversy."
The result of the authorities is that, as long as the fact of
the first marriage is contested, the second wife cannot be admitted to prove it. When the first marriage is duly established
by other evidence, to the satisfaction of the court, she may be
admitted to prove the second marriage, but not the first, and
the jury should have been so instructed.
In this case the injunction of the law of Utah, that the wife
should not be a witness for or against her husband, was practically ignored by the court. After some evidence tending to
show the marriage of plaintiff in error with Emily Spencer, but
that fact being still in controversy, Caroline Owens, the second
wife, was put upon the stand and allowed to testify to the first
marriage, and the jury were, in effect, told by the court that if,
from her evidence and that of other witnesses in the case, they
were satisfied of the fact of the first marriage, then they might
consider the evidence of Caroline Owens to prove the first marriage.
In other words, the evidence of a witness, rrimafacieincompetent, and whose competency could only be shown by proof
of a fact which was the one contested issue in the case, was
allowed to go to the jury to prove that issue and at the same
time to establish the competency of the witness.
In this we think the court erred.
It is made clear by the record that polygamous marriages are
so celebrated in Utah as to make the proof of polygamy very
difficult. They are conducted in secret, and the persons by
whom they are solemnized are under such obligations of secrecy
that it is almost impossible to extract the facts from them when
placed upon the witness stand. If both wives are excluded
from testifying to the first marriage, as we think they should
be under the existing rules of evidence, testimony sufficient to
convict in a prosecution for polygamy in the Territory of Utah
is hardly attainable. But this is not a consideration by which
we can be influenced. We must administer the law as we find
it. The remedy is with Congress, by enacting such a change

LAND CO. v. SAUNDERS.

[Sup. Ct.

in the law of evidence in the Territory of Utah as to mahe
both wives witnesses on indictments for bigamy.
For the error indicated the judgment of the Supreme Court
of the Territory of Utah must be reversed and the cause remanded to that court, to be by it remanded to the District
Court, with directions to set aside the verdict and judgment
and award a venirefacias de novo.
o ordered.

LAN'D COmPA.Y v. SAUNDES.
1. The general rule that monuments control courses and distances reasserted M
reference to lands situated in New Hampshire.
2. A well-known tract of land, embraced in an old patent, and long referred to
by name in the laws of the State, containing settlements which had been
subject to the census and tax laws, if called for in a subsequent grant made
by the State, as the boundary of a new grant, is such a monument as
will draw to it the limits of such subsequent grant, although its exterior
lines were never actually run and located on the ground; and the State
will be precluded from injecting a still later grant between the two prior
ones.
S. The premises in a grant were described as beginning at a fixed point, and
thence "running east seven miles and one hundred and seventeen rods to
Hart's Location; thence southerly by the westerly boundary of said location to a point so far south that a line drawn thence due south shall strike
the northwest corner of the town of Burton; thence south to said northwest corner of Burton; thence westerly," &c., to the beginning. Held,
1. That if, when the grant was made, there was a tract well known a3
Hart's Location, lying easterly and in the vicinity of the land granted,
and if it had a westerly boundary to which the granted tract could, by any
reasonable possibility, extend, then Hart's Location was a monument which
controlled the courses and distances of the survey; and this, though the
western boundary of Hart's location had never been actually surveyed on
the ground; and though the northwest corner of Burton did not lie due
south from any part of said western boundary. 2. That, in such case, the
connection between the two monuments -the western boundary of Hart'd
Location and the northwest corner of Burton- would be the shortest line
between them, though the course should be different from that named in
the grant.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of New Hampshire.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court

