Oct. 1880.]

NATIONAL BANK V. INSURANCE CO.

place. Home Insurance Co. v. Stanhfield, 1 Dill. 424; Marine
Insurance Co. v. Hodgson, 7 Cranch, 882; Phoenix Insurance
Co. v. Bailey, 13 Wall. 616.
Decree affirmed.

NATIONAL BANK V. INSURANCE COMPANY.
Where, upon the undisputed facts of the ease, the plaintiff is not entitled to
recover, the court may instruct the jury to find a verdict for the defendant.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

111fr. George Bliss for the plaintiff in error.
3r. -JosephLaroeque, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The assignment of errors in this case presents the single
question, whether on the undisputed facts the court below was
right in directing a verdict in favor of the insurance company.
The facts were as follows : John James Jackson was the agent at Baltimore of the Royal
Insurance Company, a British corporation. His appointment
was in writing and filed in the office of the insurance commissioner of Maryland, in compliance with the laws of the State.
His powers were ample for the issuing of policies, the collection of premiums, and the adjustment and payment of losses.
No authority was given him, however, to borrow money on the
credit of the company, and he had never in a single instance
done so, except by the negotiation of bills drawn by him as
agent on the company to pay losses. He was at the same time
the agent of other insurance companies and of a number of
private persons. He was introduced to the Central National
3ank of Baltimore, in 1870 or 1871, as the agent of the Royal
Insurance Company, and opened an account in the name of

NATIONAL BANK V. INSURANCE CO.

[Sup. Ct,.

J. J. Jackson, agent. The name of the insurance company
did not appear. All his deposits were made to the credit of
this account and all his checks were drawn against it. The
account was a large one and included moneys which came into
his hands from all sources. As he wanted money he checked
on this account, signing the checks in the name of J. J. Jackson, agent. His remittances to the company were made by
bills on London purchased from Alexander Brown & Sons,
dealers in foreign exchange at Baltimore, with checks on the
bank payable to that firm. This was known to and understood
by the bank. His checks showed that very large sums of
money credited to his account as agent were used in other
ways than for the benefit of the company.
In the summer of 1873 he was behind in his accounts with
the company, and a special agent was sent to Baltimore to get
a settlement. For the convenience of adjustment the accounts
were divided into three classes, and each class examined separately. On the 9th of July, upon a statement of one part of
the account as classified, a balance of $12,572.52 was found
due from him to the company. He had at the time not more
than five or six thousand dollars to his credit in bank, and to
meet this payment asked permission of the president of the
bank to overdraw his account, saying that his agents were
behind in their remittances, but he would hurry them up and
soon make the deficit good. Getting the consent of the bank,
he made his check in favor of Alexander Brown & Sons for
the amount due from him, and bought a bill on London, which
was remitted the company, and afterwards paid by the drawees
in the ordinary course of business.
On the 19th of July, upon the completion of the adjustment
of another part of the account, a further amount was found due
from Jackson to the company of $5,520.48. He then drew
another check in favor of Alexander Brown & Sons for this
amount, and asked again for permission to overdraw, at th(
same time showing the check. After a repetition of substantially the same statements he had made on the former occasion,
this check was certified by the direction of the president and
handed back to him. He took it to Brown & Sons and bought
another bill, which was sent forward to the company and paid

Oct. 1880.]

NATIONAL

BANK V. INSURANCE CO.

in London. Before the remainder of his accounts were adjusted
he left Baltimore, and his agency was revoked on the 24th or
the 25th of July. The bank then called on the company to
repay the overdraft, claiming that the money advanced was in
fact a loan to the company. The company declined to recognize any liability, and this suit was brought to recover the balance that was due as for money loaned.
These facts are undisputed, and we think it clear, if the jury
had been permitted to pass on the evidence, and had found
against the company, their verdict should have been promptly
set aside by the court. In point of fact the money was borrowed by Jackson to pay what he owed the company. His
application was not made in the name of the company, and
although his account was kept in his name as agent, it was, in
reality, his individual account and not that of the company.
That the money was borrowed to remit to the company must
have been understood by the bank. The checks were in the
form that had been used for a long time in making such remittances, and when money had been borrowed before to pay losses,
it had always been done on the bills of Jackson drawn on the
company in London. The form, then, which the transaction
assumed, as claimed by the bank, is that of an application by
a large foreign insurance company, through one of its agents in
this country, for the privilege of overdrawing its bank account
at the agency, so that funds might be remitted to the home
office abroad a few days in advance of anticipated receipts
from current business. So unusual and improbable a thing as
this can hardly be presumed from the single fact that the agent
of the company, who was also agent of other parties, saw fit to
keep his bank account in his name as agent without indicating
for whom. The natural inference, from the facts presented to
the bank, certainly is, as the truth was, that the agent wanted
the accommodation to enable him to meet his own obligations
to the company in anticipation of the remittances of his subagents. Such a borrowing does not charge the company as a
borrower. True, the company has saved what the bank has lost,
but not in a way to make itself liable to restore what it has got.
The bank trusted the agent, not the company. No other reasonable construction can be put on the acts of the parties at the
60
VOL. XI.

M1ANUFACTURING

Co. V. CORBIN.

[Sul). Ct.

time. A borrowing by in insurance agent to enable him to
remit to his company the proceeds of his business is primfacie
the borrowing of the agent himself rather than the company,
and will be so treated unless the contrary is shown. Any
other rule would be dangerous in the extreme. There is here
no question of ratification. This can only arise where the
borrowing is by the agent for the company without authority,
and the company adopts by its acts what was done by the
agent. Here the borrowing was by the agent for himself and
not the company. It was clearly right, therefore, for the court
to tell the jury, in advance of the verdict, that upon the evidence they must find for the company. Pleasantsv. Fant, 22
Wall. 116.
Judgment affiived.

MANUFACTURING

COIWrPANY v. CORBIN.

Reissued letters-patent are void, if they embrace a broader claim than that for
which the original letters were issued.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States foy
the District of Connecticut.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Edmund Wetmore for the appellant.
Mr. Charles E. Mitchell and Mr. 0. I. Platt, contra.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity, brought for the infringement of cei
tain reissued letters-patent, dated Oct. 11, 1875, for an imp--ovement in sash locks. The original letters were issued to
George Voll and George McGregor as joint inventors, and the
reissue was granted to their assignee, the Hopkins & Dickinson
Manufacturing Company, the appellant.
In the years 1868 and 1869 George Voll was the foreman of
George McGregor, a locksmith of Cincinnati, who kept a shop
where he sold sash locks. Prior to February, 1868, McGregor
had been selling a self-locking sash lock made by Robert Lpe,

