RAILWAY

CO. V. SPRAGUE.

[Sup. O

amount due was distributed among them. As in Shields v.
Thomas (17 How. 8), "they all claimed under one and the
same title. They had a common and undivided interest in
the claim, and it was perfectly immaterial to the appellants
how it was to be shared among them. If there was any diffi
culty as to the proportions, . . . the dispute was among them
selves."
The case, upon the merits, is one which we are not inclined
to consider on a motion to affirm.
Motions denied.

RAILWAY CONTPANY V. SPRAGUE.

1. A mortgage executed by a railway company, to secure its bonds, providen
that, in case of default for six months in the payment of the interest upon
either of them, the entire amount of the debt secured "shall forthwith become due and payable," and that the lien of the mortgage may be at once
enforced. The bonds themselves declare that, "in case of the non-payment
of any half-yearly instalment of interest which shall have become due and
been demanded, and such default shall have continued six months after
demand," the principal of the bond shall become due, with the effect
provided in the mortgage. Held, that, the mortgage being a mere security,
the terms of the bonds must control in determining when the principal ia
payable.
2. Overdue and unpaid interest coupons do not of themselves make the bond to
which they are attached dishonored paper. Cromwell v. County of Sac (93
U. S. 51) cited and approved, and Parsons v. Jackson (99 id. 434) distinguished.
3. The facts in this case show that the appellee is a bona.fide holder of the bondo
in controversy.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Indiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Joseph -E.McDonald and Mr. James Bmott for the appellant.
Mr. Clarkson N. Potter for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a suit in equity in which the Union Trust Corn

Oct, 1880.]

RAILWAY CO. v. SPRAGUE.

pany of New York was complainant, and the Indiana and Illinois Central Railway Company and others were defendants.
It was brought for the foreclosure of a mortgage upon the
property of the railway company, and it resulted in a decree
of foreclosure and sale. An interlocutory decree directed a
master of the court to ascertain and report the names of all
the holders of bonds and coupons, which had been duly issued
under the mortgage, and were entitled to share in the proceeds
of the sale.
Under this order of reference Mrs. Henrietta P. Sprague, the
appellee, presented a claim to be the owner and holder of seventy-five bonds, numbered from 629 to 703 inclusive, of $1,000
each, with coupons attached. The railway company objected
to the allowance of her claim. The master heard the proofs
of the parties and the arguments of their counsel, and reported
that she had made sufficient proof of her ownership of the
bonds in question, and that they were entitled to be paid out
of the purchase-money of the road. To this report the railroad company filed exceptions. The court, at the May Term,
1878, overruled the exceptions, and entered a decree directing,
among other things, that the seventy-five bonds of the appellee,
with the coupons thereto annexed, should be allowed as valid.
and as secured equally with the other outstanding bonds by
the mortgage foreclosed, and that they should be paid their
pro rata shares out of the proceeds of the foreclosure. From
this order, and this part of the foreclosure decree in the cause,
the railway company brings this appeal.
Mrs. Sprague was the widow and administratrix of John H.
Sprague, deceased. J. Elliott Condict had long been a friend
of her husband, doing business in New York in railway securities, under the style of "Condict & Co., bankers and brokers."
In February, 1870, she loaned Condict $25,000, for which
she took his note. Before its maturity he advised her to buy,
and offered to sell her, $75,000 of the first-mortgage bonds of
the Madison and Portage Railroad Company. She made the
purchase for the price of $60,000, and paid that sum partly by
giving up to him his note to her for $25,000 money loaned, and
the residue in securities at the market price. This purchase
was made in November, 1870.

RAILWAY

CO.

V. SPRAGUE.

ISup. CL.

The Madison and Portage Railroad Company failing to pay
interest on its bonds, she, on June 24, 1871, at Condict's instance, returned them to him, and received from him in exchange seventy-five bonds for 91,000 each of the Indiana and
Illinois Central Railway Company.
These bonds were dated April 1, 1870, and secured by a
mortgage or deed of trust of the same date. At the time of
the exchange there were attached to each of the bonds which
Mrs. Sprague received all the coupons, beginning from the date
of the bonds, sixty in number. Of these coupons two, one payable Oct. 1,1870, and one payable April 1, 1871, for thirty-five
dollars each, were past due and unpaid. The bonds contained
this provision: "In case of the non-payment of any half-yearly
instalment of interest, which shall have become due and been
demanded, and such default shall have continued six months
after demand, the principal of this bond shall become due in
the manner and with the effect provided for in the trust deed
securing its payment." The bond also recited that it, together
with the residue of two thousand seven hundred and fifty bonds,
was secured by a deed of trust or mortgage, dated the first day
if April, 1870. The mortgage contained the following clause:
"In case default be made for six months in the payment of
any interest upon either of said bonds when the same shall become due and payable, the whole principal sum in all and each
of said bonds shall forthwith become due and payable, and the
lien or incumbrance hereby created for the security and payment of such bonds may be at once enforced, anything herein
to the contrary notwithstanding."
Before making the exchange of bonds, Mrs. Sprague had
placed the management of the affair in the hands of Mr. John
M. Whiting, as her counsel, who, in her behalf, investigated
not only the question of the value of the Indiana and Illinois
Central Railway bonds, but also of the right of Condict to sell
them. At the time of this investigation the Indiana and Illinois Central Railway was not a completed but only a projected
road. , Condict was vice-president and acting president of the
company. There was an executive committee consisting of
three members besides the president. These were Condit,
Seaman, and Lazare.

Oct. 18SO.]

RAILWAY CO. V. SPRAGUE.

Five hundred bonds of $1,000 each, secured by the mortgage
of April 1, 1870, had been executed. Before they could be
issued they had to be countersigned by the Union Trust Company. They were so countersigned and delivered to the railroad company, and were in all respects regularly executed.
In June, 1871, three hundred of the bonds were delivered by
the treasurer of the company to Condict and Lazare, members
of the executive committee. They delivered two hundred of
them to parties to whom they belonged. The residue remained
in the possession of Condict. He did not appear to have any
express authority from the company to sell or dispose of them,
but claimed to have a lien on them for advances made to the
company. There was evidence tending to show, however, that
the company had never received consideration for the bonds
transferred to Mrs. Sprague, but none to show that she, so far
as it regarded any direct notice to her personally, was not a
bowza fide purchaser.
Whiting, in his testimony touching what he learned of Condiet's right to transfer the bonds, said: "HHe came to me with
statements, and upon them I acted. He asserted his entire capacity to make the exchange ; that he owned the bonds; that
he had made advances to the company; that they were his by
the highest possible title, and made all the asseverations under
my very sharp and close cross-examination. He claimed to own
the bonds." Whiting also testified as follows: "Seaman," the
colleague of Condict on the executive committee, "assured me
of Condict's right to assign them," the bonds. " My memory
is very active on this point. He sustained him," Condict, "in
every regard."
The error complained of in the part of the decree appealed
from is this: It being established by the evidence and reported
by the master that the company had never received any value
for its bonds either from Mrs. Sprague or any other person,
the court erred in holding that she was a purchaser for value
and without notice, and that the bonds were instruments of
such a character and in such a condition as to enable her to
enforce them against the company, notwithstanding the fact
that it had received no value for them.
It is not disputed that they, when first executed and made

RAILWAY CO. V. SPRAGUE.

[Sup. Ct.

ready for circulation, had all the qualities of commercial paper.
The contention of the appellant is that Mrs. Sprague was not a
purchaser in good faith and for value.
It seems to be conceded, and the evidence establishes, that
no facts were known to her in relation to them other than
those which came to the knowledge of her agent, Whiting.
Of course she was bound by what he knew. Does the knowledge of the facts learned by him, and which it is presumed he
communicated to her, make her a purchaser in bad faith?
Two facts must be taken as established: First, Condict'a
custody of the bonds was lawful. The appellant admits that
it placed them in his possession for safe keeping. Second,
There can be no question that Mrs. Sprague paid full value
for them.
Possession of negotiable bonds carries with it the title to the
holder. Murray v. Lardner, 2 Wall. 110. Mrs. Sprague,
therefore, bought the bonds of a person presumptively the
owner, and paid for them a full and valuable consideration.
Condict was an officer of the company, and as such had possession of the bonds. If he had told Mrs. Sprague or her
agent that he was selling the bonds for the company and as its
agent, and had then applied them to the payment of his individual indebtedness to her, her purchase would have been made
in bad faith. But this is not the case. Having possession of
them, and being prima facie their owner, he asserted to her
agent in the most positive manner that they were his property. The fact that he was an officer of the company did not
of itself preclude him from dealing in them, or throw the slightest suspicion on his title.
The question, therefore, and the only question in the case is,
Was there anything upon the face of the bonds and of the
mortgage which secured them to put the purchaser on notice?
The appellant asserts that there was; that attached to each of
the bonds sold to Mrs. Sprague were two unpaid coupons, due
respectively October, 1870, and April, 1871, and that this fact,
by the terms of the bonds and of the mortgage which secured
them, rendered the principal due and payable, and that as a
consequence, when she purchased them, they were dishoncred
paper.

Oct. 1880.J

RAILWAY CO. v. SPRAGUE.

There appears to be a difference between the terms of the
bonds and of the mortgage. The mortgage provided, that upon
non-payment of interest for six months the principal of the
bonds should become due, whether demanded or not. On the
other hand, the bonds declared that in case of the non-payment
of any half-yearly instalment of interest which had become due
and had been demanded, if such default should continue six
months after demand, the principal of the bond should become due. A copy of the bonds was set out in full in the
mortgage.
The bonds being the principal thing containing the obligation
of the company, and the mortgage a mere security to insure
the performance of that obligation, the terms of the bonds
should control.
Therefore a demand for the payment of her coupons and a
failure to pay for six months were necessary to make the principal of the bonds payable. There having been no demand
of the overdue coupons, it follows that by the terms of the
bonds the principal sum was not due when Mrs. Sprague purchased.
The controversy, therefore, is reduced to this: Did the mere
presence upon the bonds purchased by Mrs. Sprague of two
past-due unpaid interest coupons make the bonds dishonored
paper?
Coupons are separable obligations for the interest payable
upon demand. It constantly occurs that they are not demanded for weeks and months, and sometimes years, after they
are due. As they bear interest after maturity, it will frequently happen that the owner of a bond who holds it as an
investment will keep the coupon for the same purpose.
Bonds executed by a railroad company may not be put upon
the market until one or more coupons have matured. The
company may cut them off when it sells the bonds, or leave
them on to be accounted for in the purchase.
Negotiable bonds have been used as a means of raising
money, not only by railroad companies, but by the national
government, states, counties, and cities. To hold that the
moment an unpaid coupon is left on a bond its character
and regotiability are ch:mlp(d would greatly embarrass the

RAILWAY CO. V. SPRAGUE.

[Sup. Ct.

traffic in such securities and lead to endless uncertainty and
confusion.
The mere presence, therefore, of two unpaid coupons upon
-the bonds purchased by Mrs. Sprague was not of itself sufficient
evidence of the dishonor of the bonds to which they were
attached.
This point has been expressly ruled by this court in Cromwell v. County of Sac, 96 U. S. 51. In that case, the court,
speaking by Mr. Justice Field, said: "The non-payment of
an instalment of interest when due could not affect the negotiability of the bonds or of the subsequent coupons. Until their
maturity a purchaser for value, without notice of their invalidity as between antecedent parties, would take them discharged
from all infirmities." To the same effect see National Bank (f
2orth America v. .Kirby, 108 Mass. 497, and Boss v. Hewitt,
15 Wis. 260.
In Parsons v. Taekson (99 U. S. 434), the bonds of the railroad company which were the subject of controversy had
never been issued, but had been stolen from its office. They
were made payable either in New Orleans, New York, or London, as the president of the company might by his indorsement
on the bonds determine. They did not contain his indorsement
designating the place of payment; they were offered in the
New York market and sold for a very small consideration.
Coupons for several years, due and unpaid, were attached to
them. The court held that all these circumstances affected
the purchaser with notice of the invalidity of the bonds.
It is true the court said that the presence of the past-due
and unpaid coupons was of itself an evidence of dishonor sufficient to put the purchaser on inquiry. But the ease did not
turn on this circumstance alone. There were other significant
indications of the invalidity of the bonds, and the opinion must
be restricted to the case before the court.
But conceding for the sake of argument that the possession
of two unpaid coupons on the bonds purchased by Mrs. Sprague
had been sufficient to put her on inquiry, she can only be
charged with knowledge of the facts which she might have
learned by inquiry.
Investigation would have disclosed to her, as the record

Oct. 1880.]

RAILWAY CO. v. SPRAGUE.

shows, that the construction of the road of the company by
which the bonds were issued was just begun; that of the
twenty-seven hundred and fifty bonds, for one thousand dollars
each, which the mortgage was executed to secure, only five
hundred had been signed and prepared for circulation; that
these bonds had not been put upon the market for sale, but
that a part of them had been used as collateral security for
debts due from the company, and that those sold to her had
not been put in general circulation, but, after their execution,
had been turned over to Condict, the vice-president of the
company, who, on account of his advances to it, claimed to be
their owner, and that none of the coupons on any of the five
hundred bonds had been paid. If, therefore, Mrs. Sprague had
investigated the reason why the two past-due coupons, on the
bonds which she purchased, had not been paid, these facts
would have afforded a most satisfactory explanation.
"The party who takes negotiable coupon bonds, before due,
for a valuable consideration, without knowledge of any defect
of title and in good faith, holds them by a title valid against
all the world. Suspicion of defect of title, or the knowledge
of circumstances which would excite such suspicion in the mind
of a prudent man, or gross negligence on the part of the taker
at the time of the transaction, will not defeat his title. That
result can be produced only by bad faith on his part." Aurray v. Lardaer, 2 Wall. 110.
"Bonds for the payment of money, with interest warrants
attached, are everywhere encouraged as a safe and convenient
medium for the settlement of balances among mercantile men;
any course of judicial decision calculated to restrain or impede
their free and unembarrassed circulation would be contrary to
the soundest principles of public policy.
"Such instruments are protected in the possession of an
indorsee, not merely because they are negotiable, but also
because of their general convenience in mercantile affairs."
,inith v. Sac County, 11 Wall. 139.
The inference to be drawn from these authorities, when applied to the facts in this case, is that Mrs. Sprague was a bona
.fide purchaser for value of the bonds transferred to her by
Condict.

[Sup. ot

HINCKLEY V. MORTON.

Our conclusion, therefore, is that the Circuit Court was right
in directing a pro rata payment to be made on her bonds out
of the proceeds of the property in which they were secured.

Decree affirmed

HINCKiY v. MORToN.
Where the appellee has a color of right to the dismissal of an appeal, he may
unite with a motion therefor one to affirm the decree.
MOTION to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Illinois, with which
is united a motion to affirm.

M. R. Biddle Roberts in support of the motions.
Mr. Leonard Swett and Mr. Philip Phillips, contra.
Mr. CmF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
Our jurisdiction of this case is clear. The appeal is not from
the decree entered on our mandate at the last term in ffnii-ley
v. Railroad Company, 100 U. S. 153. On the contrary, that
decree has been satisfied by an actual payment of the amount
found due. The case does not, therefore, come within the rule
laid down in Stewart v. Salamon (97 id. 361), where we held
that an appeal would not be entertained from a decree rendered
by the court below in accordance with our mandate on a previous appeal. The record now presented shows that after our
decision at the last term, in which, among other things, Hinckley, the appellant, was allowed $10,000 for his services as receiver from the time of his appointment in the Kelly suit, he
went into the State court and had that suit reinstated. He then
applied to that court to fix his compensation as receiver. That
was done, and resulted in an allowance to him of something
more than $24,000. As soon as that order in his favor was
made, he filed an intervening petition in the Circuit Court, asking that the amount so allowed him might be paid out of the
fund in the Circuit Conr k, longing to the Morton suit. This

