Oct. 1880.]

JONES V. VAN BENTHUYSEN.

JONES v. VAN BENTHUYSEN.
1. A dealer in tobacco, who is assessed upon his sales thereof when it is in a
bonded warehouse, is not liable to be taxed for the revenue stamps required to be affixed thereto before the removal thereof, unless they were
at the time of such sales so affixed, whereby they entered into the value
of the tobacco and formed a part of the price thereof.
2. It is error to instruct touching the law applicable to facts of which there is
no evidence.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

lfr. Assistant Attorney-General Smith for the plaintiff in
error.
M]r. John D. Rouse and Mr. William Grant, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MIMLER delivered the opinion of the court.
Sidney A. Stockdale, late collector of internal revenue at
New Orleans, was sued by Van Benthuysen to recover a tax
illegally exacted of him. The case was tried by a jury, and a
verdict and judgment rendered for the plaintiff below. Stockdale died pending the suit, and this writ is prosecuted by his
executrix.
The facts of the case, as presented to the jury, are embodied
in a short bill of exceptions, from which it appears that the
plaintiff was a commission merchant, whose business was the
sale of manufactured tobacco for others; that he stood charged
on the books of the assessor of that district with sales of
tobacco amounting to $1,256,000, on which was assessed a
tax of two per cent, which he paid to the collector under
protest.
The ground of this protest is that the sales so made by him,
as shown by the bill of exceptions, "were made while the
tobacco was in bond, and was situated in the bonded warehouse; that said tax was assessed and collected upon the value
of the tobacco and upon the amount of stamps which by law
was required to be affixed upon the same before it was released
from the bonded warehouse, that the value of the tobacco so

JONES V. VAN BENTHUYSEN.

[Sup. Ct.

sold was $787,855.67, and the amount of stamps placed upon
said tobacco was $468,144.33; and that plaintiff, as a commission merchant, charged his commissions as against his principals, both upon the value of the tobacco in bond and upon
the amount invested in said stamps; that the special tax was
assessed and collected upon both the value of the tobacco and
the amount of the stamps."
The court refused to charge that the tax on the sales made
by plaintiff was properly assessed by the defendant on the
gross amount of them, namely, $1,256,000; but the jury was
instructed that the special tax of two per cent upon the
amount of sales of dealers in tobacco could not properly be
collected upon the stamps which were required to be affixed
upon the tobacco in bond, and that to the extent of the
tax upon the stamps, which plaintiff had paid, he was entitled
to recover.
The act of July 20, 1868, c. 186, under which these taxes
were assessed, enacts that "dealers in tobacco, whose annual
sales exceed $100, and do not exceed $1,000, shall each pay
$5, and when their annual sales exceed $1,000, shall pay in
addition $2 for each $1,000 in excess of $1,000. Every person
whose business it is to sell, or offer for sale, manufactured
tobacco, snuff, or cigars shall be regarded as a dealer in tobacco." 15 Stat. 125, 152.
Undoubtedly this statute only intended to impose a tax
upon the sales of tobacco, and if the dealer was also the
owner of stamps to be used in paying the duties on tobacco,
he could sell them separately in any quantity, without being
liable to a tax for such sales. When unattached to the
tobacco they do not enter into its value, and they can be
bought and sold at their face value as an independent commodity, to be used when and wherever the purchasers choose
to do so, For such sales no tax is imposed upon the seller or
the buyer.
On the other band, we are of opinion that when they are
once attached to the tobacco and cancelled, and can never be
lawfully used again, they cease to have ainy separate and independent value, and that which they had previously has become
merg:d into that of the tobacco. All subsequent sales are

Oct. 1880.]

JONES V. VAN BENTHUYSEN.

made upon the basis of the increased value the tobacco has
acquired by the payment of the stamp duty, and can never be
estimated apart from this.
It would seem to follow from this that if the stamps fox
which the plaintiff was charged by the collector were not
affixed to the tobacco at the time he made the sale, no tax
should be charged to him for that value. On the other hand,
if the stamps were affixed at the time of the sale, they then
entered into the value of the tobacco purchased, and the broker
who made the sale should be taxed on the price of the tobacco
as it was sold.
In the case before us it is stated that the aggregate sum of
1,256,000 of sales on which plaintiff paid the tax was made
up of a vast number of separate sales, during a period running
from April, 1869, to January, 1872, of which he made monthly
reports to the assessor. It is obvious that the owner of the
tobacco in a bonded warehouse might have sold it without any
stamps on it, as the law did not require the stamps to be affixed until it was about to be removed. And we see no reason
why a single lot of tobacco might not be sold several times
I efore it came to a purchaser who wished to take it out of the
warehouse, when for the first time the stamps would be attached. For such sales as this no tax could be rightfully
assessed for the value of the stamps. After the stamps were
attached their value necessarily constituted part of the price
for which the tobacco sold, and for this price the dealer should
be taxed.
It follows that, in deciding the liability of the plaintiff to
taxation on these sales, it is important to know in the case of
each sale whether the stamps had been affixed to the tobacco
at the time of the sale or not.
There is in the bill of exceptions nothing which enables us
to ascertain this fact, nor from which the jury could ascertain
it. The language of the bill of exceptions is that the sales of
to) acco for which the disputed tax was collected "were made
when the tobacco was in bond, and was situated in the bonded
w'arehouse," but not a word to show whether the stamps had
then been affixed to the tobacco or not.
Under these circumstances we do not think the court was

BOOGHER V. INSURANCE CO.

P.up. Ct.

authorized to charge that, "if the jury found as a fact that
such tax had been levied and collected from plaintiff, not only
upon the proceeds of tobacco sold in bond, but upon the
amount of stamps required to be affixed upon such tobacco
before it could be delivered from the bonded warehouse," that
to the extent of that sum plaintiff was entitled to recover.
The right to recover did not depend upon the amount of
stamps required to enable the tobacco to be taken out of the
warehouse, or that might have been affixed long after the sale,
but upon whether said stamps were affixed to the tobacco at
the time of the sale, and, therefore, entered into the purchase
price.
Judgment reversed, with directions to grant a new trial.

BOoGuER v. INSURANCE COMPANY.
1 Quaere, Does the act of June 1, 1872, c. 255 (17 Stat. 195; Rev. Stat., sect.
914), authorize the review here of an action at law, wherein, pursuant to
the practice of the courts of the State in which the Circuit Court was held,
the facts were found by a referee.
2. Sect. 700 of the Revised Statutes is the only enactment providing for the
review here of a civil cause where an issue of fact has been tried in the
Circuit Court otherwise than by a jury.
3. The Practice Act of Missouri declares that an issue of fact in any action may,
upon the written consent of the parties, be referred. Where, therefore, the
record states that, after a case was called for trial and a jury sworn to try
the issue joined, a juror was, by "consent of parties," withdrawn and the
case referred to A., this court must assume that such consent, as well as
that to waive a jury, was in writing.
4. In order to give this court jurisdiction to determine whether the facts found
by the referee, and confirmed by the court below, are sufficient to support
tie judgment, they must be treated as the finding of the court. Otherwise, there has not been such a judicial determination of them as to make
them conclusive here.
5. The ruling that where any portion of the charge to the jury is correct, an
exception to the entire charge will not be sustained, reaffirmed, and held to
be applicable to a general exception taken to the report of a referee.
6. A bond executed Dec. 22, 1871, to an insurance company by B., its agent, and
conditioned for the faithful discharge of his duties, contains a provision
that it shall continue and remain in force so long as he "shall be the agent
of said company, whether under his existing appointment or any future

