Oct. 1880.]

KENNEDY V. INDIANAPOLIS.

KENNEDY V. INDIAIAPOLIS.
1 Sect. 7, art. 1, of the Constitution of Indiana, adopted in 1816, provides "that
no man's particular services shall be demanded, or property taken or applied to public use, without the consent of his representatives, or without
a just compensation being made therefor." Under an act of the General
Assembly, "to provide for a general system of internal improvements,"
approved Jan. 27, 1836, the board thereby created was authorized to enter
upon, take possession of, and use lands. Held, that the right to enter and
use them was complete as soon as they were actually appropriated under
the authority of that act, but that the title to them did not, without the
consent of the owner, vest in the State until just compensation was made
to him therefor.
2. The decisions of the Supreme Court of Indiana upon the point cited and
examined.
3. In this case nothing was paid, it being considered that the benefits resulting
from the construction of the contemplated work would furnish the owner
just compensation for the land taken. The work was never constructed,
and the State sold the property. Held, that no title passed to the put.
chaser.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the' United States for the
District of Indiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The case was argued by Mr. Benjamin Harrison for the
appellants, and by Mr. S. Olaypool and Mr. David Turpie for
the appellees.

MR. CHEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a suit in equity brought by the appellants to quiet
title to certain lands in the city of Indianapolis. The facts are
as follows: By an act of the General Assembly of Indiana "to
provide for a general system of internal improvements," passed
Jan. 27, 1836 (Rev. Stat. Ind., 1838, p. 337, sect. 4), the board
of internal improvements was authorized and directed to construct., among other public works, the Central Canal, commencing at the most suitable point on the Wabash and Erie Canal
between Fort Wayne and Logansport, running thence to Muncietown, thence to Indianapolis, and thence to Evansville on
the Ohio River. For this purpose the board was authorized to
enter upon, take possession of, and use any lands necessary for

KENNEDY V. INDIANAPOLIS.

[Sup. Utg

the prosecution and completion of the work. Sect. 16. In all
cases where persons felt aggrieved or injured by what was done,
a claim could be made for damages, which were to be appraised
in a way specially provided for, but in making the appraisement the benefits resulting to the claimant from the construction of the work were to be taken into consideration. Any
sum of money thus found to be due was to be paid by the
board, but no claim could be recovered or paid unless made
within two years after the property was taken possession of.
Sect. 17. The board was also authorized to acquire, by donation or purchase, for the State, the necessary ground for the
profitable use of any water-power that might be created by
the construction of the canal, and to lease, for hydraulic purposes, any surplus of water there might be over and above what
was required for navigation. Sects. 22, 23.
The Constitution of the State, adopted in 1816, which was in
force when this act was passed, and until all the rights of the
State under it had been acquired, contains the following as
art. 1, sect. 7: "That no man's particular services shall be
demanded, or property taken or applied to public use, without
the consent of his representatives, or without a just compensation being made therefor."
The town plat of Indianapolis was laid out on lands granted
by Congress to Indiana for a seat of government. On this plat,
as originally made, Missouri Street extended across the town
from north to south, a distance of one mile. The board of
internal improvements located the Central Canal in this street
throughout its entire length. From the southerly end of the
street the location extended in that direction across what was
then known as outlots 121, 125, and 126. These lots were
owned, 126 by one Coe, and the other two by Van Blaricum.
During the year 1840 or before, the canal was actually built,
filled with water, and to some extent navigated from Broad
Ripple, a point on the west fork of the White River, about nine
miles north of Indianapolis, to a lock in Missouri Street, at
Market Street. From Market Street the canal was actually
dug, and its banks built to another lock, a distance of a mile or
more below; but it was never filled with water for the purposes
of navigation, or, in fact, opened for navigation. The lower

Oct. 1880.]

KENNEDY V. INDIANAPOLIS.

lock would perhaps hold the water in the level above, but would
not pass a boat below.
About the time this part of the work was finished, the whole
project of completing the canal was abandoned, and has never
since been resumed. Considerable work had been done on the
line as a whole before the abandonment, but the only part ever
opened for navigation to any extent whatever was that between
Broad Ripple and the Market Street lock. The premises in
controversy are between Market Street and the next lock
below.
The State made a lease of water-power to be used at this
lower lock, and for many years conducted the water to supply that lease through the canal as constructed below Market
Street. No other use of the canal was ever made by the State
for any purpose, and both the city and the owners of the several
outlots have at all times been permitted to fence, bridge, and
occupy the property as they pleased, provided they did not
interrupt the flow of water to supply the power to a mill that
had been built below.
Neither the town of Indianapolis nor Coe ever made any
claim on the State for compensation on account of the appropriation of thei," property. Van Blaricum did, however, do so,
and he prosecutnd his claim until 1848, when it was finally
decided against him. It is conceded that no damages were
ever awarded him. The defendants, other than the city of
Indianapolis and the railroad company, are the owners of all
the title to the outlots occupied by the canal which did not pass
to the State under the appropriation that was made.
In 1850, the General Assembly of Indiana passed an act to sell
the canal, and under the authority of that act all the part of
the canal north of Morgan County, including the premises in
controversy, was conveyed to one Francis N. Conwell for the
sum of $2,425. From Conwell the title, such as he got, passed
by sundry conveyances to the Water-works Company of Indianapolis. Afterwards that part of the premises south of
Market Street, not being essential to the business of the Waterworks Company, was sold to the Indianapolis, Cincinnati, and
Lafayette Railroad Company.
Between 1872 and 1874, the city of Indianapolis, the legal

KENNEDY V. INDIANAPOLIS.

[Sup. Ot

successor f the town, took actual possession of Missouri Street
below the Market Street lock, and used it for sewerage purposes,
building a sewer therein and filling up the canal. About the
same time MeKernan, the ancestor of the present appellees of
that name, filled up the canal on the outlots in question, and
erected one or more houses thereon. This bill was filed by
the mortgagees of the railroad company to quiet the title of the
company to this property and protect their security. On the
hearing the Circuit Court dismissed the bill for the reason that
the appropriation by the State was not sufficient to divest the
owners of their title, and consequently the railroad company
took nothing by the conveyances under which it claims.
According to the later decisions of the Supreme Court of
Indiana, when lands were taken by the State under the internal improvement laws, and just compensation made to the owners, the title in fee was transferred from the owner to the State.
Water-works Company of Indianapolis v. Burkhart, 41 Ind.
864; N'elson v. Fleming, 56 id. 310. The earlier decisions
were the other way. -Edgerton and Others v. Huff, 26 id. 35.
But, so far as we have been able to discover, it has never yet
been held that the title passed out of the owner until "1just
compensation" had actually been made. In fact, the decisions
appear to have been uniformly to the effect that it did not.
Thus, as early as 1838, in Rubottom v. HeJflure (4 Blackf. 505),
it was said in reference to a statute, of which the one now
under consideration is almost a literal copy, that it insured "to
any individual whose interest may have been made to yield
to the public good, remuneration for his loss. Actual payment
to him is a condition precedent to the investment of the title to
the property in the State, but not to the appropriation of it
to public use."
This was followed in 1846 by Hankins v.
Lawrence, 8 id. 266. That was a case in which the White
Water Valley Canal Company had acquired the title of the
State to the White Water Canal, one of the works the board
of internal improvements was authorized to construct under
the act of 1836, and the question was whether it could, under
its charter, enter upon lands to complete that canal, for the
purposes of its incorporation, without first having made just
compenqation to the owner. Upon this the court said: " The

Oct. 1880.]

8KENNEDY

1, INDIANAPOLIS.

question whether payment must be made before the land is
taken and used... has been already decided by this court...
The possession and use of the land in question by the White
Water Valley Canal Company are upon the condition subsequent, that they will not be in default with respect to the
payment for the same as prescribed by the charter, nor with
respect to the erecting of the works for which the land is taken.
It may be that, should any person claiming under the company
remain in possession of the land after a default in such payment, or in erecting the works, he would be considered as a
trespasser ab initio." So far as we have been advised, these
cases are still the law of Indiana, and they are certainly supported by high authority. Thus, in Rexford v. Knight (11 N. Y.
308), the Court of Appeals of New York, speaking of statutes
similar to that of Indiana, says: "The construction upon those
acts has been that the fee did not vest in the State until the
payment of the compensation, although the authority to enter
upon and appropriate the land was complete prior to the payment." And so, in Nichols v. Som. & Ken. Railroad Co. (43
Me. 359), the Supreme Court of Maine, in speaking of an article
of the Constitution of that State which declared that private
property should not be taken for public uses without just compensation, uses this language: "While it prevents the acquisition of any title to land or to an easement in it, and does not
permit a permanent appropriation of it, as against the owner,
without the actual payment or tender of a just compensation,
it does not operate to prohibit the legislature from authorizing
a temporary exclusive occupation of the land of an individual
as an incipient proceeding to the acquisition of title to it, or to
an easement in it for a public use, although such occupation
may be more or less injurious to the owner. Such temporary
occupation, however, will become unlawful, unless the party
authorized to make it acquire, within a reasonable time from
its commencement, a title to the land, or at least an easement
in it." And again, in Cushman v. Smith (34 id. 247): "The
design seems to have been simply to declare that private prop.
erty shall not be changed to public property, or transferred
from the owner to others for public use, without compensation." Not to multiply cases further, it seems to us that both

KENNEDY V. INDIANAPOLIS.

[Sup. Ct

on principle and authority the rule is, under such a constitution
as that of Indiana, that the right to enter on and use the property is complete as soon as the property is actually appropriated under the authority of law for a public use, but that the
title does not pass from the owner without his consent until
just compensation has been made to him.
We proceed now to apply this rule to the facts. It is not
contended that compensation in money was made for any of the
land in dispute. Van Blaricum claimed money, but the tribunal to which, under the statute, his application was referred
decided against him. In effect he was told, in answer to his
application, that the benefits he would receive from the construction of the canal would be "just compensation" to him for his
property taken. The town and the lot-owners adjoining Missouri Street made no claim for compensation. Neither did Coe,
the owner of lot 126. In this way these parties signified under
the law their willingness to take as their compensation the benefits which would result to them respectively from the construction of the canal. The appropriation was for public use
by means of a canal, and the owners were to be paid their compensation for the land taken by the construction of a canal
thereon. It would seem to follow that if the canal was constructed the compensation which the Constitution guaranteed
the owner would be made; otherwise not. If the canal was in
law built, therefore, the title passed to the State; if not, it
remained in the owner. The failure to claim damages within
the two years was no more than a waiver of all compensation
except such as grew out of the benefits resulting from the construction of the work for which the appropriation was made.
To hold that the title passed by mere appropriation, if no claim
for damages was made within the two years, would be in effect
to decide that if the State entered on land for a particular use
and kept possession as against the owner for two years, it got
a title in fee whether the property was actually put to the use
or not. Such we cannot believe to be the law.
Was there, then, such a canal constructed over and upon the
lands in question as the internal improvement act, under which
the appropriation was made, contemplated? A canal in the sense
which that term implies in this connection means a navigable

Oet. 1880.]

KENNEDY V. INDIANAPOLIS.

public highway for the transportation of persons and property.
It must not only be in a condition to hold water that can be
used for navigation, but it must have in it, as part of the
structure itself, the water to be navigated ready for use. Such
an instrumentality for "the advancement of the wealth, prosperity, and character of the State" (Iubottom v. MeClure,
supc,) might confer benefits that would be a just compensation for the private property taken for its use; but until such a
structure is actually furnished complete, it can in no proper
sense be said that the works have been constructed from which
the benefits that are to make the compensation can proceed.
A mill-race carrying water for hydraulic purposes is not enough.
There must be a canal fitted in all respects for navigation and
open to public use, before the benefits can accrue to the owner
which are under the law to overcome his claim for damages.
No authority was given the board of improvements to appropriate lands for the use of the water-power created by the canal.
That could only be acquired by donation or purchase (sect. 16),
and no power could be leased until there was a surplus of water.
The canal was to be built for navigation. If when built there
was found to be more water than was wanted as a means
of transportation, it might be leased, but until there was a
canal for navigation there was in law none for power. The
use of the water for hydraulic purposes was but an incident to
the principal object of the work to be done.
There can be no pretence that this canal was ever navigated
below Market Street, or put in a condition for navigation. It
was accepted from the contractor, and may have had all its
banks and its bed complete; but it is evident from the testimony
that it was never finished so that it could be actually used as a
navigable canal, and it certainly was never opened by the State
to public use in that way. More work had been done on it than
on some other parts of the line, but still it was unfinished when
the abandonment of the enterprise took place.
We are aware that in the case of the Water-works Company
v. Burljart,supra, the Supreme Court of Indiana decided that
the title to the land then in dispute had passed from the owner
to the State, but that was on the level above Market Street,
which had been not only made navigable but had actually been

BABBITT V. CLARK.

[Sup. Ct.

to some extent navigated. The owner, too, had been awarded
and paid damages in money. So in Nelson v. Fleming, cupra,
the canal was completed and had been in actual use by the
public as such for a period of between thirty and forty years
before the abandonment occurred. In both these cases, accord
ing to the rule that has been stated, the compensation was actually made and the title passed. There the question was one of
reversion after title once acquired. Here, as we think, the
State never got title, since the requisite compensation was
never made. Consequently, the State had no title to this property to convey, and the railroad company took nothing by its
purchase. It follows that the decree below was right, and it is
Affirmed
consequently

BAiBBIT v. CLARK.
I. Under the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137 (18 Stat., pt. 3, p. 470), a writ of error
is the proper mode for reviewing here the order of the Circuit Court
remanding an action at law removed thereto from a State court, and it
lies without regard to the value of the matter in dispute.
2. The removal should not be granted, if the petition therefor be not filed in
the State court before or at the term at which the action could be first
tried, and before the trial thereof. Where, therefore, a cause, by the practice of the State court, stood for trial upon the issue raised by the petition
and answer, the rule-day having expired without filing a reply, and the
plaintiff then filed in the clerk's office a reply, without leave or notice, and
the cause was continued until the ensuing term, when, before the cause
was called for trial, the defendant presented his application for its removal,
- Held, that the application should not have been granted, and the order
of the Circuit Court remanding the cause was proper.

APPFAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Ohio.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. John C. Lee for the appellant.
Mr. Isaac C. Pugsley for the appellees.
MR. CH=EF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
This suit was brought by Parker P. Clark, George H. Clark

