WEBBER V. VIRGINIA.

[Sup. Ct.

and not an actual use of material in excess of capacity. There
is no pretence of bad faith. The distiller did what was required
of him to get a reduction of capacity while his distillery was
in operation. Under such circumstances he was entitled to
have the capacity estimated while the reduction was going
on, in such a way as not to charge him with material in mash
when the change was applied for, as material used in excess of
capacityj.
Judgment affirmed.
NOTE. I WeiLtel v. Kayser and Weitel v. Caldwell, error to the same court
and submitted at the same time as the preceding case, MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITn
remarked that they were in all material respects like it, and, upon its authority,
the judgments were affirmed.

WEBBER V. VIRGINIA.
1. Letters-patent granted by the United States do not exclude from the operation of the tax or license law of a State the tangible property in which the
invention or discovery is embodied.
2. A statute of Virginia requires that the agent for the sale of articles manufactured in other States must first obtain a license, for which he is required
to pay a specific tax for each county in which he sells or offers to sell
them, while the agent for the sale of articles manufactured in that State, if
acting for the manufacturer, is not required to obtain a license or pay any
license tax. Held, that the statute is in conflict with the commerce clause
of the Constitution of the United States, and void.
3. Commerce among the States is not free whenever a commodity is, by reason of its foreign growth or manufacture, subjected by State legislation to
discriminating regulations or burdens.
4. Welton v. State of Missouri (91 U. S. 275) and County of Mobile v. Kimball (102
id. 691) cited and approved.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Appeals for the State of
Virginia.
This case comes before this court on a writ of error to the
Sulteme Court of Appeals of the State of Virginia, and arose
in this way: In May, 1880, the plaintiff in error, J. T. Webber, was indicted in the County Court of Henrico County, in
that State, for unlawfully selling and offering for sale in that

Oct. 1880.]

WEBBER V. VIRGINIA.

county, to its citizens, certain machines known as Singer sewing-machines, which were manufactured out of the State, without having first obtained a license for that purpose from the
authorities of the county, or having paid the tax imposed by
law for that privilege.
The indictment was founded upon the forty-fifth and fortysixth sections of the revenue law of the State, which r.re as
follows: -

"45. Any person who shall sell, or offer for sale, the manufactured articles or machines of other States or Territories, unless he
be the owner thereof and taxed as a merchant, or take orders
theretbr, on commission or otherwise, shall be deemed to be an
agent for the sale of manufactured articles of other States and Territories, and shall not act as such without taking out a license
therefor. No such person shall, under his license as such, sell or
offer to sell such articles through the agency of another; but a
separate license shall be required from any agent or ernploy6 who
may sell or offer to sell such articles for another. For any violation of this section, the person offending shall pay a fine of not
less than fifty dollars nor more than one hundred dollars for each
offence.

"46. The specific license tax upon an agent for the sale of any
manufactured article or machine of other States or Territories shall
be twenty-five dollars; and this tax shall give to any party licensed
under this section the right to sell the same within the county or
corporation in which he shall take out his license; and if lie shall
sell or offer to sell the same in any other of the counties or corporations of this State, lie shall pay an additional tax of ten dollars
in each of the counties or corporations where he may sell or offer
to sell the same. All persons other than resident manufacturers or
their agents, selling articles manufactured in this State, shall pay
the specific license tax imposed by this section2' Acts of Assembly
1875 and 1876, p. 184, c. 162, sects. 45, 46.
To the indictment the accused pleaded "not guilty;" and
on the trial it was proved that he had sold and offered to sell
sewing-machines in Henrico County, as charged, but that at
the time he was acting as agent or employ6 of the Singer
Manufacturing Company, a corporation created under the laws
of New Jersey; that this company had a place of business
in Rihmond, Va., where it was licensed as a resident mer.

WEBBER v. VIRGINIA.

[Sup. Ct.

chant, for the year beginning May 1, 1880, and had paid the
required license tax, and where it kept a stock of machines for
sale; that the machines sold by the accused were the property
of the company, and were manufactured by it out of the State,
and in accordance with specifications of a patent of the United
States, granted in 1879, to one W. C. Hicks, and by him transferred to the company. It also appeared that the accused had
not-taken out a license to sell the machines in Henrico County,
and was not himself taxed as a merchant, and had not taken
orders for the machines on commission or otherwise.
On the trial his counsel requested the court to instruct the
jury, that if they believed the Singer Manufacturing Company
had paid for a general merchant's license for the year beginning
May 1, 1880, and received such license, or that the machines sold
were constructed according to the specifications of the patent
held by the company, and that the accused was acting in the
sales made only as its employ4, he was entitled to a verdict of
acquittal. The court refused to give these instructions, and, at
the request of the attorney for the Commonwealth, instructed
the jury, in substance, that if they believed the accused had, at
different times within the year, previous to the indictment,
sold or offered to sell in Henrico County to its citizens Singer
sewing-machines manufactured beyond the State, and at the
time he was neither the manufacturer himself nor the owner of
them, and was not taxed as a merchant in the county, and had
not taken orders therefor on commission or otherwise, and
had not obtained a license to sell the same in the county,
and had not paid to the proper officer the tax imposed by
law for selling the same in that county, they should find him
guilty.
The jury found the accused guilty, and he was sentenced
to pay a fine of fifty dollars and costs. On appeal to the
Circuit Court of the county this judgment was affirmed,
and on further appeal to the Supreme Court of Appeals of the
State the judgment of the Circuit Court was affirmed. To
review the latter judgment the case is brought here on writ
of error.
Me. C. V. Meredith for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. ames C. Field, Attorney-General of Virginia, cort-a.

Oct. 1880.]

WEBBER V. VIRGINIA.

MR. JUSTICE FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
In the county court where the accused was tried, the only
defence presented by his instructions was, that he was acting
as the agent of the Singer Manufacturing Company, which
had a license from the State as a resident merchant in Richmond to sell the machines, and also held a patent of the
United States, authorizing it to manufacture and sell them
anywhere in the United States. To this defence the answer is
obvious. The license, being limited to the city of Richmond,
gave no authority to the company to sell the machines elsewhere, and of course gave none to its agent. Besides, the question as to the extent of the territorial operation of the license
depended upon the construction given by the Court of Appeals
of the State to the statute, and its decision thereon is not open
to review by us. And the right conferred by the patent laws
of the United States to inventors to sell their inventions and
discoveries does not take the tangible property, in which the
invention or discovery may be exhibited or carried into effect,
from the operation of the tax and license laws of the State.
The combination of different materials so as to produce a new
and valuable product or result, or to produce a well-known
product or result more rapidly or better than before, which
constitutes the invention or discovery, cannot be forbidden by
the State, nor can the sale of the article or machine produced be restricted except as the production and sale of other
articles, for the manufacture of which no invention or discovery
is patented or claimed, may be forbidden or restricted.
The patent for a dynamite powder does not prevent the
State from prescribing the conditions of its manufacture, storage, and sale, so as to protect the community from the danger
of explosion. A patent for the manufacture and sale of a
deadly poison does not lessen the right of the State to control
its handling and use. The legislation respecting the articles
which the State may adopt after the patents have expired, it
may equally adopt during their continuance. It is only the
right to the invention or discovery - the incorporeal rightwhich the State cannot interfere with. Congress never inI ended that the patent laws should displace the police powers

WEBBER V. VIRGINIA.

[Sup. Ct.

of the States, meaning by that term those powers by which.
the health, good order, peace, and general welfare of the community are promoted. Whatever rights are secured to inventors must be enjoyed in subordination to this general authority
of the State over all property within its limits.
These views find support in the language of this court in
Patterson v. Kentucky, 97 U. S. 501. There a party was convicted of violating a statute of the State regulating the inspection and gauging of oils and fluids, the product of coal,
petroleum, or other bituminous substances. The statute pro
vided that such oils and fluids should be inspected by an authorized officer of the State before being used, sold, or offered
for sale, and required the inspector to brand, according to the
fact, casks and barrels of the oil with the words "standard oil,"
or with the words "unsafe for illuminating purposes." It im
posed a penalty for selling or offering for sale in the State such
oils and fluids as had been condemned. A particular oil, known
as the Aurora oil, which had been thus condemned, was sold
by the accused. A patent for the oil had been issued by the
United States to a party who had assigned it to him, and in
defence to the indictment he asserted the right under the
patent to sell the oil in any part of the United States, and that
no State could, consistently with the Federal Constitution and
the laws of Congress, prevent or obstruct its exercise. But the
court held this construction of the Constitution and laws to be
inadmissible, and that the right was to be exercised in subordination to the general powers which the several States possessed
over their purely domestic affairs, whether of internal commerce or police. After some just observations upon the police
powers of the State, their extent and object, and a reference to
previous decisions, the court said, speaking through Mr. Justice Harlan: "These considerations, gathered from the former
decisions of this court, would seem to justify the conclusion
that the right which the patentee or his assignee possesses in
the property created by the application of a patented discovery,
must be enjoyed subject to the complete and salutary power,
with which the States have never parted, of so defining and
regulating the sale and use of property within their respective
iNtits as to afford protection to the many against the injurious

Oct. 1880.]

WEBBER V. VIRGINIA.

conduct of the few. The right of property in the physical sub
stance, which is the fruit of the discovery, is altogether distinct from the right in the discovery itself, just as the property
in the instruments or plates by which copies of a map are
multiplied is distinct from the copyright of the map itself."
And again, the enjoyment of the right in the discovery "may
be secured and protected by national authority against all
interference; but the use of the tangible property which comes
into existence by the application of the discovery is not beyond the control of State legislation simply because the patentee acquires a monopoly in his discovery."
In accordance -with the views thus expressed we can find no
objection to the legislation of Virginia in requiring a license
for the sale of the sewing-machines, by reason of the grant of
letters-patent for the invention.
There is, however, an objection to its legislation arising from
its discriminating provisions against non-resident merchants
and their agents, and this is presented by the instructions
given to the jury at the request of the attorney of the Commonwealth.
The forty-fifth section of the revenue law declares that "any
person who shall sell or offer for sale the manufactured articles
or machines of other States or Territories, unless he be the
owner thereof and taxed as a merchant, or take orders therefor, on commission or otherwise, shall be deemed to be an
agent" for the sale of those articles, and shall not act as such
without taking out a license therefor. A violation of this
provision subjects the offender to a fine of not less than
fifty dollars nor more than one hundred dollars for each
offence.
The forty-sixth section fixes the license tax of the agent for
the sale of such articles at twenty-five dollars. The license
only give. him a right to sell in the county or corporation for
which it is issued. If he sells, or offers to sell, in other counties
or corporations, he must pay in each an additional tax of ten
dollars. The section then declares that "all persons, other tLan
resident manufacturers or their agents, selling articles manufactured in the State shall pay the specific license tax imposed
by this section."

WEBBER V. VIRGINIA.

[Sup. Ot.

By these sections, read together, we have this result: the
agent for the sale of articles manufactured in other States must
first obtain a license to sell, for which he is required to pay a
specific tax for each county in which he sells or offers to sell
them; while the agent for the sale of articles manufactured in
the State, if acting for the manufacturer, is not required to
obtain a license or pay any license tax. Here there is a clear
discrimination in favor of home manufacturers and against the
manufacturers of other States. Sales by manufacturers are
chiefly effected through agents. A tax upon their agents
when thus engaged is, therefore, a tax upon them, and if this
is made to depend upon the foreign character of the articles,
that is, upon their having been manufactured without the
State, it is to that extent a regulation of commerce in the
articles between the States. It matters not whether the tax
be laid directly upon the articles sold or in the form of licenses
for their sale. If by reason of their foreign character the
State can impose a tax upon them or upon the person through
whom the sales are effected, the amount of the tax will be a
matter resting in her discretion. She may place the tax at so
high a figure as to exclude the introduction of the foreign article and prevent competition with the home product. It was
against legislation of this discriminating kind that the framers
of the Constitution intended to guard when they vested in
Congress the power to regulate commerce among the several
States.
In Welton v. State of Missouri we expressed at length our
views on the subject, and to our opinion we may refer for their
statement. No one questions the general power of the State
to require licenses for the various pursuits and occupations
conducted within her limits, and to fix their amount as she
may choose, and no one on this bench -certainly
not the
writer of this opinion -would wish to limit or qualify it in
any respect, except when its exercise may impinge upon the
just authority of the Federal government under the Constitutiou, or the limitations prescribed by that instrument. But
where a power is vested exclusively in that government, and
its exercise is essential to the perfect freedom of commercial
int'.rcourse between the several States, any interfering action

Oct. 1880.]

WEBBER

V. VIRGINIA.

by them must give way. This was stipulated in the indissoluble covenant by which we became one people.
In a recent case we had occasion to consider at some length
the extent of the commercial power vested in Congress, and
how far it is to be deemed exclusive of State authority. Referring to the great variety of subjects upon which Congress,
under that power, can act, we said that "some of them are
national in their character, and admit and require uniformity
of regulation, affecting alike all the States; others are local, or
are mere aids to commerce, and can only be properly regulated
by provisions adapted to their special circumstances and localities. Of the former class may be mentioned all that portion
of commerce with foreign countries or between the States
which consists in the transportation, purchase, sale, and exchange of commodities. Here there can, of necessity, be only
one system or plan of regulations, and that Congress alone can
prescribe. Its non-action in such cases, with respect to any
particular commodity or mode of transportation, is a declaration of its purpose that the commerce in that commodity or by
that means of transportation shall be free. There would otherwise be no security against conflicting regulations of different
States, each discriminating in favor of its own products and
citizens and against the products and citizens of other States."
Cunty of llobile v. Kimnball, 102 U. S. 691, 697.
Commerce among the States in any commodity can only be
free when the commodity is exempted from all discriminating
regulations and burdens imposed by local authority by reason
of its foreign growth or manufacture.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia
must, therefore, be reversed, and the cause remanded to it for
further proceedings in accordance with this opinion; and it is
So ordered.

