Oct. 1880.]

UNITY

v. BURRAGE.

by accommodation indorsements for others, made after the last
dividend was paid; that the firm, but for this, would have
remained solvent, and that, in regard to this, none of the de
fonlants were to blame except Frederick, who, being a full
partner, is liable personally for all the debts of the firm.

.kn important matter in the case is a stipulation of the partic-s to the suit that all the debts owing by the firm were cotstracted subsequently to the declaration and payment of all the
dividends, and none of the debts df the firm were in existence
at the time these profits were declared and paid.
No creditor whose debt was in existence when these dividends
were made was injured. All the debts then existing have been
paid. What right had subsequent creditors to reclaim these
dividends, who had no interest in the matter when they were
paid? These defendants, except Frederick, were not partners.
Their money was in the concern, and they received dividends
instead of interest.
We repeat that there is no evidence of fraud or intentional
wrong.
Decree affirmed.

UIrTY v. BuERAGPS.
1. A statute was declared to be a public act. A subsequent statute, supplementary thereto and amendatory thereof, is also a public act, and need not be
specially pleaded.
2. A statute of Illinois, legalizing elections held by the voters of a county or
the question of issuing negotiable bonds of the county, in aid of certain
railroad companies, and authorizing, on conditions therein named, all the
townships in counties where the township organization had been adopted,
lying on or near to the line of a specified railroad, to subscribe to the stock
of the railroad company, and issue negotiable bonds therefor, is a public
act.
3. Such a statute does not conflict with section 2.3 of article 3 of the Constitution
of 1848, which provides that "no private or local law, which may be passed
by the General Assembly, shall embrace more than one subject, and that
shall be expressed in the title."

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.

UNITY v. BURRAGE.

[Sup. C

On Feb. 8, 1853, an act of the legislature of Illinois was
approved, entitled an act to incorporate "the Decatur and Indianapolis Railroad Company." It incorporated the company
named for the purpose of " constructing, completing, and operating a railroad from the town of Decatur, in Marion County,
in the State of Illinois, and thence in a direct line, upon the
most eligible route, to the east line of the State of Illinois."
The third section of the act is as follows: "Said company is hereby authorized and empowered to unite and
form a junction with the Indiana and Illinois Central Railway Coinpany, or any other company which is or may hereafter be organized in the State of Indiana terminating on said line; and also, to
unite and consolidate with the said Indiana and Illinois Central
Railway Company, upon such terms and conditions as the directors
shall mutually agree upon; and in the event that said companies
shall consolidate, then and in that case there shall be but thirteen
directors on the whole line of road so consolidated, and the number to reside in each State shall be determined as in the case of
consolidation."
Afterwards, on Feb. 20, 1854, an act of the same legislature
was approved, entitled "An Act to amend the act entitled ' An
Act to incorporate the Decatur and Indianapolis Railroad Company, approved Feb. 8, 1853. "
The preamble and first section of this act are as follows: "Whereas, under and in pursuance of the authority conferred in
the above-named act, the said Decatur and Indianapolis Railroad
Company, after their organization, united, consolidated, and merged
their stock with the stock of the Indiana and Illinois Central Railway Company, forming a single corporation by means of such consolidation under the name and style of the I Indiana and Illinois
Central Railway Company,' therefore,
" SECT. 1. That the said Indiana and Illinois Central Railway
Company, as existing under the said consolidation, is hereby declared to be entitled to hold, enjoy, and possess all the property,
rights, fianchises, and powers held, enjoyed, and possessed by either
of said original corporations prior to their said consolidation, fully
and effectually, to all intents and purposes, and to be entitled to
have and hold all the rights, powers, and privileges conferred,
or to be hereafter conferred, by law upon railroad corporations.

Oct. 1880.]

UNITY

v.

BURRAGE.

organized under the act entitled 'An Act to provide for a general system of railroad incorporations,' approved Nov. 5, 1849."
The last section reads as follows: "This act shall be deemed
and taken to be a public act, and shall be liberally construed
in all courts of justice, and shall take effect and be in force
from and after its passage."
On Feb. 22, 1861, an act was passed, entitled "An Act to
extend the time for completing the Indiana and Illinois Central Railway Company."
The preamble of this act is as
follows " Whereas the Decatur and Indianapolis Railroad Company were
legally incorporated under an act entitled ' An Act to provide for a
general system of railroad incorporations,' in force November 5,
1849 ; and whereas said Decatur and Indianapolis Railroad Company
atierwais united and consolidated with the Indiana and Illinois
Central Railway Company, on the fourth day of May, A.D. 1853,
in compliance with the provisions of an act entitled ' An Act to inceorporate the Decatur and Indianapolis railroad Company,' in
1'ree February eighth, 185:3, and of an act entitled 'An Act to
amend an act to incorporate the Decatur and Indianapolis Railroad Company,' in forec February twelfth, 1854, whereby said
Decatur and Indianapolis Railroad Company became and was
named and styled 'The Indiana and Illinois Central Railway
Company;' and whereas said Indiana and Illinois Central Railway Company, in compliance with the provisions of the 44th section of an act entitled 'An Act to provide for a general system
of railroad incorporations,' in force November 5th, 1849, began
the construction of its roads and expended thereon ten per cent
on the amount of its capital within five years after its incorporation."
The body of the act extended for ten years from and after
April 26, 1863, the time for putting in full operation the Indiana and Illinois Central railway.
The forty-fourth section of an act entitled "An Act to provide for a general system of railroad incorporations," in force
Nov. 5, 1849, is as follows ,'If any such corporation shall not, within five years after its incorporation, begin the countruction of its road, and expend thereon
VOL. XIII.
29

UNITY v. BURRAGE.

[Sup. Ct.

ten per cent on the amount of its capital, and finish the road an
put it in full operation in ten years thereafter, its act of incorporation shall become void."
On March 27, 1869, an act was passed supplementary and
amendatory of the act of Feb. 20, 1854, above mentioned, entitled "An Act supplementary to and amending an act entitled
' An Act to incorporate the Decatur and Indianapolis Railroad
Company,' approved Feb. 8, 1853."
The act legalized an election held by the voters of Macon
County in favor of the issuing of bonds of said county, to the
amount of $60,000, to aid in building the Indiana and Illinois
Central railway, and an election subsequently held by the
voters of the same county in favor of a subscription by the
county of $40,000 to the capital stock of the said railroad company, and of the issuing of the bonds of the county to pay for
said stock, and in favor of subsciptions by said county to
three other railroad companies therein named, and the issuing
of the bonds of the county to pay therefor.
Sect. 2 of the act provides as follows: "The several townships in counties where township organization
has been adopted, lying on or near to the line of said railroad, are
hereby authorized to subscribe to and to take stock in the said Indiana and Illinois Central Railway Company. Elections may be
held in any such township upon the question whether such township shall subscribe for any specified amount of stock of said county,
not exceeding one hundred thousand dollars, whenever a petition
for that purpose shall be presented as hereinafter specified"'
The subsequent sections of the act prescribe the mode of
holding elections mentioned in the second section, and the levy
and collection of a tax by the township authorities of the townships which voted to take stock in said railroad company, to
pay the interest and principal on the bonds issued in payment
thereof.
The last section extends the time for the completion of the
railroad of the said Indiana and Illinois Central Railway Company to July 1, 1875.
On April 16, 1869, the legislature passed an act entitled " An
Act to fund and provide for paying the railroad debts of coun-

Oct. 1880.]

UNITY

v.

BURRAGE.

ties, townships, cities, and towns." This act provides for the
registration, in the office of the auditor of public accounts of
the State, of bonds issued by counties, townships, &c., in aid of
or to pay for stock in railroad companies.
Afterwards, on Sept. 13, 1869, and, as it was claimed, in
limruance of the authority conferred by the act of March 27,
lS69, at a special election held on that day, a majority of the
legal voters of Unity Township, in the county of Piatt, voted
infavor of a subscription of $14,000 to the stock of the Indiana
and Illinois Central Railway Company, and an issue of the
bonds of the township sufficient to pay for such stock.
Pursuant to this vote, fourteen bonds of the township, for
1,000 each, all dated May 12, 1873, with interest coupons
attached, were duly executed by the officers of the township.
The bonds, principal and interest, were made payable to the
Indiana and Illinois Central Railway Company, or bearer, at
the American Exchange National Bank, New York.
They contained the following recital: -This bond is one of a series of fourteen bonds, of one thousand
,lillars each, numbered from one to fourteen inclusive, issued under
mid by virtue of the acts of the General Assembly of the State of
lllinois, entitled 'An Act supplementary to and amending an act
vni tled "An Act to amend the act entitled an act to incorporate
the Decatur and Indianapolis Railroad Company," approved February 8th, 1853, in force March 27th, 1869, and an act entitled "An
Act to fund and provide for paying the railroad debts of counties,
t,,wnships, cities, and towns,"' in force 16th April, 1869, and in accordance with the vote of the electors of said township of Unity, at
a Npecial election held in said township on the thirteenth day of
September, A. D. 1869, under the provisions of said acts, and in accordance therewith, and the faith of said township is hereby pledged
ftr the payment of said principal sum and interest as aforesaid."
The plaintiffs, being the holders of these bonds, brought this
suit against the township on the coupons which fell due May
12. 1878, and May 12, 1879.
The declaration having averred the execution of the bonds
idesignating them as promissory notes), with the interest coupuns attached, proceeded as follows: -

UNITY

v.

BURRAGE.

[Slip. OC.

" And each of said promissory notes recites that it is issued under
and by virtue of a law of the State of Illinois, entitled 'An Act
supplementary to and amending an act entitled "An Act to amend
the act entitled an act to incorporate the Decatur and Indianapolis
Railroad Company," approved Feb. 8, 1858,' in force March 27, 1869.
"And under a law of the State of Illinois entitled 'An Act te
fund and provide for paying the railroad debts of counties, townships, cities, and towns,' in force 16th April, 1869. And in accordance with the vote of the electors of said township of Unity, at a
special election held in said township on. the thirteenth day of September, A.D. 1869, under the provisions of said acts and in accordance therewith.
"And the plaintiffs further aver that 'said promissory notes have
been duly registered in the office of the auditor of public accounts
of the State of Illinois, pursuant to said act of April 16, 1869, as
from the certificate of said auditor of public accounts attached to
each of said promissory notes will more fully appear.
"That the plaintiffs are the bearers of the coupons for interest on
said promissory notes which fell due on the twelfth day of May,
A.D. 1878, being seven coupons of one hundred dollars each. And
also of the fourteen coupons annexed to said promissory notes and
of even number therewith, each of which said coupons became due
and payable on the twelfth day of May, A.D. 1879, making in all the
sum of twenty-one hundred dollars.
"And the said defendant has failed to provide funds for the payment of said instruments of interest at the American Exchange
Natio.jal Bank, New York. And has utterly neglected to pay the
same, although thereunt9 often requested."
The township filed a general demurrer to the declaration,
which was overruled, and on its electing to stand by the demurrer and refusing to plead, judgment was rendered in favor
of the plaintiff, which, by agreement of parties, was for the
principal of the bonds and the interest up to June 10, 1880,
amounting in all to $17,816.
This writ of error is prosecuted to reverse that judgment.
Mr. W. J. Henry for the plaintiff in error.
1. The act under which the bonds purport to have been issued
is a private act. It is not specially pleaded, and the court cannot take judicial notice thereof. Lelandv. Wilkinson, 6 Pet. 317;
Covington Draw Bridge Co.v. Shepherd, 20 How. 227; Peaty v.

Oct. 1880.]

UNITY

v. BURRAGE.

Lesee of Ewowler, 4 Pet. 152; Society for Prop. of Gospel v.
I',uiy, 2 N. H. 310; .Perdicardisv. Bridge Company, 29 N. J.
L. 367; Bank v. Wollidon, 3 Harr. (Del.) 90; City Council
v. Plank Road Co., 31 Ala. 76; King v. Doolittle, 1 Head
(Tenn.), 77.
2. When the consolidation was completed, the old corpora
tions were destroyed and a new one was created. The powers
were granted to it as if the old companies had never enjoyed
the franchises which had been conferred by their respective
charters. ,Siields v. Ohio, 95 U. S. 319; Railroad Company v.
ieorgia, 98 id. 359; Clearwaterv. Meredith, 1 Wall. 25; MeJllabda v. J1Iorrison, 16 Ind. 172; Ohio v. Sherman, 22 Ohio St.
M1; Stields v. Odo, 26 id. 86. As the consolidation of the
two companies operated to destroy the charter of each and
ainul the contract between the State and the corporators,
neither of the original corporations was then in existence, or
had power to accept the act of March 27, 1869.
That act does not profess to be an amendment of the charter
of the Indiana and Illinois Central Railway Company. It is
"An Act supplementary to and amending an act entitled ' An
Act to amend the act entitled an act to incorporate the Decatur
a d Indianapolis Railroad Company,' approved Feb. 8, 1853."
The Indiana and Illinois Central Railway Company, being a
new and distinct corporation, with franchises directly conferred
upon it by the legislature, under a different name from that
company (Private Laws 1861, p. 499), had no authority to
accept or reject the attempted amendment of a surrendered
clarter.
'3. Sect. 23 of art. 3 of the Constitution of 1848 provides
that "no private or local law which may be passed by the General Assembly shall embrace more than one subject, and that
shall be expressed in the title."
The amendatory act is therefore void. O'Leary v. County of
Cook, 28 Ill. 534; Fireman's Benevolent Association v. .ouns.
bury, 21 id. 511; INeifing v. Town of Pontiac,56 id. 172; Pres.
cott v. City of Ciliago,60 id. 121; Ottawa v. People, 48 id. 233;
Middleport v. Life Insurance Co., 82 id. 562.
4. The Decatur and Indianapolis Railroad Company was incorporated under, and derived its powers from, an act entitled

UNITY

v.

BURRAGE.

[Sup. C ,.

"An Act to provide for a general system of railroad incorperations," in force Nov. 5, 1849 (Private Laws, 1861, p. 499). By
the provisions of the special act in force Feb. 8, 1858, it was
required to organize in full compliance with the statutory provisions providing such general system.
This ancillary and amendatory act of 1869 attempts to change
the corporate powers conferred by the general statute on the
company. The legislature had no power to do this. It is an
attempt, not to amend or change that statute, but, on the
contrary, to leave it in full force and effect as to all other
companies organized under it, and to extend the power of this
corporation by a special act.
Mr. James Dinsmoor, contra.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error alleges that the act of March 27, 1869,
by authority of which the bonds sued on were issued, is a private act, and should have been specially recited in the declaration; and as the declaration contains no such recital, it is bad
on general demurrer. The defendants in error deny that the
act is a private act.
Private acts are thus defined by Blackstone :"Special or private acts are rather exceptions than rules, being
those which operate only upon particular persons and private concerns, such as the Romans entitled senata2s decreta,in contradistinction to the senates consulta, which regarded the whole community,
and of these (which are not promulgated with the same notoriety
as the former) the judges are not bound to take notice, unless they
be formally shown and pleaded. Thus, to show the distinction, thE
statute 13 Eliz., c. 10, to prevent spiritual persons from making
leases for longer terms than twenty-one years, or their lives, is a public act, being a rule prescribed to the whole body of spiritual persons in the nation; but an act to enable the Bishop of Chester to
make a lease to A. B. for sixty years is an exception to this rule; it
concerns only the parties and the bishop's successors, and is, therefore, a private act." 1 Black. Com. 86.
Tested by this definition, it is clear that the act under consideration is a public and not a private act. It legalizes and

Oct. 1880.]

UNITY

v.

BURRAGE.

makes valid elections held by the people of Macon County,
Illinois, on the question of issuing the negotiable bonds of the
county in aid of certain railroad companies therein named, and
authorizes all the townships in the counties where township
organization had been adopted, lying on or near to the line of
the Indiana and Illinois Central Railway Company, on certain
specified conditions, to subscribe to the stock of that company,
and issue their negotiable coupon bonds in payment thereof.
This statute affects not only the people of the county of Macon,
and of many of the townships of all the counties lying on or
near the line of the railroad designated, but also all persons to
whose hands the bonds issued by the county and township mentioned, may come.
Some cases throwing light upon the question will be cited.
An act passed by the legislature of Indiana, Feb. 14, 1848,
to incorporate the Ohio and Mississippi Railroad Company,
provided for subscriptions to the stock of the company by the
commissioners of any county through which its road might
pass, and an issue of the bonds of the county to pay for the
same. This act was declared a public act by this court in
Comjdssioner. of Knox County v. Aspinwall, 21 How. 539.
In ,S'tate, ex rel. Oothren, v. Lean (9 Wis. 279) it was held
that a law providing for the location of a county seat is a general law. The Supreme Court of Indiana, in West v. Blake
(4 Blackf. (Ind.) 234), held that an act authorizing an agent of
the State to lay off and sell lots in a particular town, it being
the seat of government, was a public act. The courts said:
"Statutes incorporating counties, fixing their boundaries, establishing court-houses, canals, turnpikes, railroads, &c., for public
uses, all operate upon local subjects. They are not for that
reason special or private acts." In this country the disposition
has been on the whole to enlarge the limits of this class of
1 )ublie acts, and to bring within it all enactments of a general
character, or which in any way affect the community at large.
Pierce v. Kimball, 9 Me. 54; 1'Nrew Portland v. New Vineyard,
16 id. 69; Gorlam v. Springfield, 21 id. 58; Burnham v. TWeb4er, 5 Mass. 266; Com))onwealth v. 1cCurdy, id. 824; Com'1o1w0ulth v. Springfield, 7 id. 9; Bac. Abr., Statute F. On
these, and many other authorities which might be cited, we

UNITY

v.

BURRAGE.

[Sup. Ot.

think that the act by which the issue of the bonds sued
on was authorized is a public act, of which the courts are
bound to take judicial notice, and that it need not be specially
pleaded.
But independently of authority there is a conclusive answer
to this claim of the plaintiff in error.
The act of Feb. 24, 1854, to which the act of March 27,
1869, is supplementary and amendatory, is declared in express
terms by its fifth section to be a public act. It cannot, therefore, be said that the act which supplements and amends it,
and thereby becomes a part of it, is a private act. If one is
public, both must be.
The plaintiff in error next claims that the Decatur and Indianapolis Railroad Company and the Indiana and Illinois Central Railway Company were consolidated; that the effect of the
consolidation was to destroy the old corporations and create a
new one, and, therefore, when the act of Mlarch 27, 1869, was
passed, entitled an act supplementary to and amending an act
entitled "An Act to amend the act entitled an act to incorporate the Decatur and Indianapolis Railroad Company, approved Feb. 8, 1853," and authorizing certain townships to
subscribe to the capital stock of the Indiana and Illinois Central
Railway Company, the charter of the Decatur and Indianapolis
Railroad Company had been surrendered; that the company
had ceased to exist, and that, there being no corporation to
which it could apply, the act of March 27, 1869, was, therefore,
of no effect.
This seems to be an attempt to overturn by argument and
inference a deliberate enactnient of the legislature, and erase it
bodily from the statute book.
Let it be conceded that the effect of the consolidation of the
two companies was to create a new corporation under the name
of the Indiana and Illinois Central Railway Company. It was
perfectly competent for the legislature to authorize townships
to subscribe to the stock of the new company, and issue their
bonds in payment thereof. This was what the act under consideration did. The act which it purported to amend, after
reciting in its preamble the fact of the consolidation of the
Decatur and Indianapolis Railroad Company with the Indiana

Oct. 1880.]

UNITY

z. BUIRAGE.

and Illinois Central Railway Company, conferred on the latter
company, "as existing under the consolidation, all the property, rights, franchises, and powers held, enjoyed, and possessed
by either of said original corporations prior to their said consolidation."
The act under consideration authorized certain townships to
subscribe stock to this corporation thus formed, and to issue
their bonds in payment therefor. It might fairly be entitled an
act to amend an act, by authority of which the company existed.
The new company, existing by recognition of the act of Feb.
20, 1854, had the capacity to accept, and did accept, this amendnent, for it received and put in circulation the bonds issued
under its authority.
There is no ground for the theory that the act-of March 27,
1869, is inoperative. W"re are bound, if possible, to give it
effect, t res,, q, rldeat
v.
quan, pereat. So far from its binding
force being a matter of doubt, we see no difficulty, based on
the reasons advanced by the plaintiff in error, in the way of
giving it full and complete effect.
It is next said by the plaintiff in error that the act is uncon
stitutional, and, therefore, void and of no force.
The ground of its unconstitutionality is alleged to be that it
does not conform to sect. 23 of art. 3 of the Constitution of
Illinois of 184S, which provides that "no private or local law
which may be passed by the General Assembly shall embrace
more than one subject, and that shall be expressed in the
title."
Assuming the act in question to be a local law, is it open to
the objection urged against it? It legalizes two elections held
by the people of Macon County; the first to decide whether
the county should issue its bonds to the amount of 960,000 to
aid in building the Indiana and Illinois Central Railway, and
the second to decide whether the county should subscribe
.J40,000 to the stock of said railway company and issue its
bonds for that amount in payment thereof, and declares valid
and binding any bonds of the county issued or to be issued in
pursuance of said elections, and it authorized certain townships
on conditions prescribed to subscribe to the stock of said rail.
w-4y company, and i6sue thleir bonds in payment thereof.

UNITY v. BURRAGE.

Lsup. Ct.

This act is entitled an act "supplementary to and amending" the act conferring corporate powers on the Indiana and
Illinois Central Railroad Company.
The question whether such an act is obnoxious to the provision of the Illinois Constitution in relation to the subject and
title of local acts, has been substantially decided in the negative
by this court in the case of San Antonio v. f'Iehaffy, 96 U. S.
312.
The Constitution of Texas declares that "every latv enacted
by the legislature shall embrace but one object, and that shall
be expressed in the title." The act of the legislature of Texas,
said to be in violation of this provision, was entitled "An Act
to incorporate the San Antonio Railroad Company." Among
other provisions, it authorized the city of San Antonio to take
stock in that company, and issue bonds to pay for the same.
The act was decided to have but one object, and that was
expressed in the title.
The Supreme Court of Illinois, in the case of Te Belleville
&c. Railroad Company v. Gregory (15 111. 20) has decided that
an act whose title was "An Act to incorporate the Belleville
and Illinois Railroad Company," and which contained a section
which authorized the city of Belleville and the county of St.
Clair to subscribe for stock in the company, was not in violation of the section of the State Constitution under consideration. Fireman's Benevolent Association v. Lounsbury, 21 I1.
511; Supervisors of Schuyler County v. People, 25 id. 181;
O'Leary v. County of Cook, 28 id. 534; Erlinger v. Boneau, 51
id. 94; People v. Brislin, 80 id. 423; Binz v. Weber, 81 id. 288.
The act cannot, therefore, be held to be open to the constitutional objection under consideration.
But it is insisted that the second election ratified by the act
under consideration, not only had reference to subscriptions of
stock and the issue of bonds in aid of the Indiana and Illinois
Railway Company, but also of three other railroad companies,
and the act, therefore, contained more than one subject, and the
latter subject was not expressed in the title.
In such a case the provisions of the law touching the subject,
which is expressed in the title, must stand. Those relating to
the other subjects, not expressed in the title, alone fall. By

Oct. 1880.]

UNITY v. BURRAGE.

such a construction the purpose of the constitutional provision
is fully accomplished.
All the provisions of the law under consideration which have
reference to the Indiana and Illinois Central Railway Company
constitute but one subject; this, as we have seen, is expressed
in the title; the other matters constituting other subjects, not
expressed in the title, are so entirely disconnected with that
which is expressed, that they can be eliminated and leave the
1emainder of the act in full force. Packet Company v. Keokuk,
95 U. S. 80.
We are of opinion, therefore, that so much of the act of
March 27, 1869, as authorizes the issue of the bonds sued
on, is fairly expressed in the title, and is constitutional and
valid.
It is next alleged by the plaintiff in error that the Decatur
and Indianapolis Railroad Company was incorporated under the
general law of Illinois "to provide for a general system of railroad incorporations," and not under the special act to incor
porate the Decatur and Indianapolis Railroad, of Feb. 8, 1853.
And it is insisted that the act of March 27, 1869, under authority of which the bonds in suit were issued, was an attempt by
special act to add to the powers conferred upon the company
by a general law.
Conceding the premises, we do not think the conclusion follows. There is nothing in the Constitution of Illinois or the
unwritten restraints upon legislative power which forbids such
an enactment. We can see no reason, either in the Constitution of the State or in public policy, to restrain the legislature
from declaring that certain townships may subscribe to the
stock of a particular ra ilroad company, organized under a general law, and issue their bonds to pay for the same.
But the premises which we have conceded are not true. The
Decatur and Indianapolis Railroad Company was organized
under the special authority of the act to incorporate that company upon compliance with the requirements of the general
law.
The Indiana and Illinois Central Railway Company, in whose
behalf the act of March 27, 1869, was passed, derived its corrorate existence and power from a consolidation between a

UNITY

v.

BURRAGE.

[Sup. Cf.

company of that name and the Decatur and Indianapolis Rail.
road Company, made by authority of the law under which the
latter company was organized, and of the act of Feb. 20, 1854,
which recognized the consolidation and confirmed to the new
company "all the property, rights, franchises, and powers held
and enjoyed by either of said original corporations."
The Indiana and Illinois Central Railroad Company derived
its existence from special laws and not from the act to provide
for a general system of railroad incorporations. There is,
therefore, no ground for the objection under consideration to
stand on.
The case is a clear one, and it is unnecessary to devote
further space to its discussion. There was in existence, by
virtue of the legislation of the State of Illinois, a corporation
known as the Indiana and Illinois Central Railway Company.
By a perfectly valid and constitutional act certain townships,
among them the plaintiff in error, were authorized, upon a vote
of a majority of their legal voters, to subscribe stock in the
railway company mentioned and issue their bonds to pay for it.
The election was held under this law in the township of Unity.
A majority of its legal voters at that election decided in favor
of subscribing to the stock of the railroad company, and issuing
the bonds of the township in payment thereof. The stock was
accordingly subscribed, and the bonds were issued by authority
of law and sold. The railroad has been built and is in full use
as one of the post-roads of the United States. The holders of
the bonds are entitled to their money, and there is no legal
obstacle in the way of a judgment therefor in their favor.
Judgment affirme,

