Oct. 1880.]

HALL V. WISCONSIN.

whether it be herself or some one else, must be content with
what she granted in that way. Ordinarily the same rules of
construction which are applied to other charters will be applied to such as this. The State, as a stockholder, must take
what she, as sovereign, gave to the other stockholders, unless
she, in express terms, provided specially for herself. She did
in this ease make provision for a preferred dividend, but did
not on that account, or any other, relieve the property of the
cumpany from the burdens of taxation, such as were common
to all property holders in the State. She did give the Baltimore and Ohio Company such an exemption, but that privilege
was kept back from this corporation.
We are all clearly of the opinion that the power to tax the
property of the company was never relinquished by the State,
either in express terms or by any fair implication.
Judgment affirmed.

HALL v. WlscosIm.
A contract between a State and a party, whereby he Is to perform certain
duties for a specific period at a stipulated compensation, is within the
protection of the Constitution; and on his executing it he is entitled to
that compensation, although before the expiration of the period the State
repealed the statute pursuant to which the contract was made.

to the Supreme Court of the State of Wisconsin.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
ERROR

Mr. Luther S. 1)ixon for the plaintiff in error.
No counsel appeared for the defendant in error.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Wisconsin.
The case we are called on to consider is thus disclosed in the
record: By an act of the legislature, entitled "An Act to provide for
a geological, mineralogical, and agricultural survey of the
State," approved Marvh ". 1857, James Hall, of the State of
MR. JUSTICE SWAYNE

6

HALL V. WIsC0NsIN,

[Sup. Ct

New York, the plaintiff in error, and Ezra Carr and Edward
Daniels, of Wisconsin, were appointed "commissioners" to
make the survey. Their duties were specifically defined, and
were all of a scientific character.
They were required to distribute the functions of their work
by agreement among themselves, and to employ such assistants
as a majority of them might deem necessary.
The governor was required "to make a written contract
with each commissioner" for the performance of his allotted
work, and "the compensation therefor, including the charge of
each commissioner; " and it was declared that "such contract
shall expressly provide that the compensation to such commissioners shall be at a certain rate per annum, to be agreed upon,
and not exceeding the rate of two thousand dollars per annum,
and that, payment will be made only for such part of the year
as such commissioner may actually be engaged in the discharge
of his duty as such commissioner."
In case of a vacancy occurring in the commission, the governor was empowered to fill it, and he was authorized to "remove any member for incompetency or neglect of duty."
To carry out the provisions of the act, the sum of $6,000 per
annum for six years was appropriated, "to be paid to the
persons entitled to receive the same."
By an act of the legislature of April 2, 1860, Hall was made
the principal of the commission, and was vested with the general supervision and control of the survey. He was required
to contract with J. D. Whitney and with Charles Whittlesey
for the completion within the year of their respective surveys.
To carry into effect these provisions, the governor was authorized to draw such portion of the original appropriation, not
drawn previous to the 29th of May, 1858, as might be necessary for that purpose; the residue to be otherwise used as
directed.
By a subsequent act of March 21, 1862, both the acts before
mentioned were repealed without .qualification.
On the 29th of May, 1858, Hall entered into a contract with
the governor, whereby it was stipulated on his part that he
should perform the duties therein mentioned touching the
survey, "this contract to continue till the third day of M%,arch,

Oct. 1880.]

HALL V. WISCONSIN.

1863, unless the said Hall should be removed for incompetency
or neglect of duty, . . . or unless a vacancy shall occur in his
office by his own act or default."
On the part of the State it was stipulated "that the said
Hall shall receive for his compensation and expenses, including
the expense of his department of said survey, at the rate of
"f2,000 per annum. . . . Provided, that for such time as said
Hall or his assistants shall not be engaged in the prosecution
of his duties, according to the terms of said act and of this contract, deduction shall be made, pro rata,from the sum of his
annual compensation and expenses."
Hall brought this action upon the contract. The declaration
avers that immediately after the execution of the contract he
entered upon the performance of the duties thereby enjoined
upon him, and continued in their faithful performance until the
time specified in the contract for its expiration, to wit, the 3d
of March, 1863; that he was not removed by the governor for
incompetency or neglect, nor was any complaint ever made by
the governor against him; that he never at any time, directly
or indirectly, assented to the repeal of the acts of 1857 and
1860; and that thereafter he continued in the performance of
his labors the same as before, and that for the year ending
March 3, 1863, he devoted his whole time and skill, without
cessation, to the work.
He avers further, that for his services performed prior to
March 3, 1862, he was fully paid, but that for the year ending
March 3, 1863, he had received nothing; that payment was demanded and refused on the 3d of December, 1863, and that the
defendant is, therefore, justly indebted to him in the sum of
-2,000, with interest from the date last mentioned.
He avers, finally, that on the 30th of January, 1875, he presented his claim to the legislature by a proper memorial, and
that its allowance was refused.
The State demurred upon two grounds:1. That the complaint did not show facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action;
2. That it appeared upon the face of the complaint that the
zause of action did not accrue within six years before the commencement of the action.

HALL V. WISCONSIN.

[Sup. Ct.

In support of the first objection, it was insisted that the employment of the plaintiff was an office, and that the legislature
had therefore the right to abolish it at pleasure. For the
plaintiff, it was maintained that there was a contract, and that
the repealing act impaired its obligation in violation of the
contract clause of the Constitution of the United States.
The court sustained the demurrer upon the first ground,
and the plaintiff declining to amend, dismissed his petition.
The opinion of the court is limited to the first point, and ours
will be confined to that subject. The whole case resolves
itself into the issue thus raised by the parties.
No question is made as to the suability of the State. The
proceeding is authorized by a local statute. The question raised
by the record is within our jurisdiction. In the exercise of
that jurisdiction in such cases this court is unfettered by the
authority of State adjudications. It acts independently, and is
governed by its own views. Township of Pine Grove v. Talcott,
19 Wall. 666.
The question to be considered was before us in United States
v. Hartwell, 6 id. 385. It was there said that "an office is
a public station or employment conferred by the appointment
of government. The term embraces the ideas of tenure, duration, emolument, and duties. . . A government office is
different from a government contract. The latter, from its
nature, is necessarily limited in its duration and specific in its
objects. The terms agreed upon define the rights and obligations of both parties, and neither may depart from them without
the assent of the other."
In United States v. Maurice (2 Brock. 96), Mr. Chief Justice
Marshall said: " Although an office is an employment, it does
not follow that every employment is an office. A man may
certainly be employed under a contract, express or implied, to
perform a service without becoming an officer."
The case before us comes within the definition we have taken
from United States v. Hartwell, supra.
The statute under which the governor acted was explicit,
that he should "make a written contract with each of the
commissioners aforesaid, expressly stipulating and setting forth
the nature and extent of the services to be rendered by each.

Oct. 1880.]

HALL V. WISCONSIN.

and the compensation therefor," and that "such contract"
should expressly provide that the compensation of each commissioner should be at a certain rate per annum, to be agreed
up.n, and not exceeding 82,000 per annum for the time such
commissioner may be actually engaged.
The action of the governor conformed to this view. The
instrument executed pursuant to the statute recites that it is
all "agreement" between the governor as one party, and Hall,
Carr, and Randall, the commissioners, as the other. They
severally agreed to do what the statute contemplated, and he
agreed to pay all that it permitted.
The names and seals of the parties were affixed to the agreement, and its execution was attested by two subscribing witnesses, as in other cases of contract.
Where an office is created, the law usually fixes the compensation, prescribes its duties, and requires that the appointee
shall give a bond with sureties for the faithful performance of
the service required. To do all this, if the employment were
an office, by a contract with the officer and without his bond
would, to say the least, be a singular anomaly.
The acts of 1857 and 1860 both speak of Hall as "of Albany,
N. Y." He was not, therefore, a citizen or a resident of the
State of Wisconsin.
It is well settled in Wisconsin that such a person cannot be
a public officer of that State. State, ex rel. Off, v. Smith, 14
Wis. 497; State, ex rd. Schuet, v. 11iurray, 28 id. 96.
In Uidted States v. Hateh, the Supreme Court of Wisconsin
decided that the term "civil officers" as used in the organic
law (act of Congress of April 20, 1836) embraces only those
officers in whom a portion of the sovereignty is vested, or to
whom the enforcement of municipal regulations or the control
of the general interests of society is confided, and does not inelude such officers as canal commissioners. 1 Pinn. (Wis.) 182.
In Batle,"v. Th7e Regents of the nliversity (32 Wis. 124),
the same court held, without dissent, that a professor in the
State university, appointed for a stated term with a fixed
salary, was not a public officer in such a sense as prevented
his employment from creating a contract relation between him.
self and the regents.

RALL V. WISCONSIN.

[Sup. (it.

It is hard to distinguish that case in principle from the one
before us.
In a sound view of the subject it seems to us that the legal
position of the plaintiff in error was not materially different
from that of parties who, pursuant to law, enter into stipulations limited in point of time, with a State, for the erection,
alteration, or repair of public buildings, or to supply the officers or employ6s who occupy them with fuel, light, stationery,
and other things necessary for the public service. The same
reasoning is applicable to the countless employ6s in the same
way, under the national government.
It would be a novel and startling doctrine to all these classes
of persons that the government might discard them at pleasure, because their respective employments were public offices,
and hence without the protection of contract rights.
It is not to be supposed that the plaintiff in error would
have turned his back upon like employment, actual or potential, elsewhere, and have stipulated as he did to serve the State
of Wisconsin for the period named, if the idea had been present to his mind that the State had the reserved power to break
the relation between them whenever it might choose to do so.
Nor is there anything tending to show that those who acted
in behalf of the State had any such view at that time. All
the facts disclosed point to the opposite conclusion as to both
parties.
Undoubtedly, as a general proposition, a State may abolish
any public office created by a public law (Newton v. Commissioners, 100 U. S.559), but even with respect to those offices
the circumstances may be such as to create an exception. In
Trustees of -DartmouthCollege v. Woodward, Mr. Justice Story
said: "It is admitted that the State legislatures have power
to enlarge, repeal, and limit the authorities of public officers in
their official .capacities, in all cases where the constitutions of
the States respectively do not prohibit them; and this, among
others, for the very reason that there is no express or implied
contract that they shall always, during their continuance in
office, exercise such authorities. . . . But when the legislature
makes a contract with a public officer, as in case of a stipulated salary for his services during a limited period, this, during

Oct. 1880.]

DENNICK 11. IAILROAD

0.

the limited period, is just as much a contract, within the purview of the constitutional prohibition, as a like contract would
be between two private citizens." 4 Wheat. 518, 694.
When a State descends from the plane of its sovereignty, and
contracts with private persons, it is regarded pro hac vice as a
private person itself, and is bound accordingly. Davis v. Gray,
16i Wall. 203.
The general government has no powers but such as are given
to it expressly or by implication.
The States and their legislatures have all such as have not
been surrendered, or prohibited to them. Gilman v. Philadelph'a, 3 Wall. 713. And see also 2 Greenleaf's Cruise, 67.
That the laws under which the governor acted, if valid, gave
him the power to do all he did, is not denied. We will not,
therefore, dwell upon that point. The validity of those laws
is too clear to admit of doubt. It would be a waste of time tc
discuss the subject.
We are of the opinion that the Supreme Court of the State
erred in the judgment given. It will, therefore, be reversed,
and the case remanded for further proceedings in conformity
with this opinion.
So ordered.

DENNIcK v. RAILROAD COMPANY.
1. A right arising under or a liability imposed by either the common law or
the statute of a State may, where the action is transitory, be asserted and
enforced in any circuit court of the United States having jurisdiction of
the subject-matter and the parties.

2. A. died in New Jersey from injuries there received, for which, if death had
not ensued, B., the party inflicting them, would have been liable to an
action for damages. The statute of that State (infra, p. 12) provides that
such an action may be brought against the party by the personal representative of the deceased. C., appointed, under the laws of New York,
administratrix of A., brought, in a court of the latter State, a suit against
B., which, by reason of the citizenship of the parties, was removed to the
Circuit Court of the United States. Held, 1. That the suit can be maintained, the right of action not being limited by the statute to a personal
representative of the deceased appointed in New Jersey and amenable to
her jurisdiction. 2. That distribution of moneys recovered by C. from B.
may be enforced by the courts of New York in the manner prescribed by
that statute.

