YATES V. NATIONAL HOME

[(Sup.

Q.

YATES V. NATIONAL HOME.
The deputy-governor of the branch at Milwaukee of "The National Home foz
Disabled Volunteer Soldiers" was not permitted by its by-laws to contract
for or receive, beyond his stated salary, compensation for services, which, at
the request of the building committee of the board of managers, he rendered
in the erection of the new buildings for the home at that place.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for tho
Eastern District of Wisconsin.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr.Luther S.Dixon for the plaintiff in error.
No counsel appeared for the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

By the act of Congress of March 21, 1866, c. 21, the President of the United States, the Secretary of War, the Chief
Justice of the United States, and such other persons as might
thereafter be associated with them, according to the provisions
of that act, were constituted a board of managers of an estab
lishment for the care and relief of the disabled volunteers of
the United States army, by the name of "The National Asylum
for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers; " with power to take, hold,
and convey real and personal property, and to make by-laws,
rules, and regulations, not inconsistent with the laws of the
United States, for carrying on the business and government
of the asylum.
Authority was given to the board of managers, consisting of
twelve persons, to procure suitable sites and to erect for military asylums the necessary buildings for all persons serving in
the army of the United States at any time in the war of the
Rebellion, who were not provided for by existing laws, and who
had, or might thereafter, become disqualified from procuring
their own maintenance and support by reason of wounds received or sickness contracted while in the line of their duty
during the rebellion. The act fu.-ther provides that the officers
of the asylum shall consist of governor, deputy-governor, secretary, treasurer, and such other officers as the board of managers

Oct. 1880.]

YATES v. NATIONAL HOME.

may ieem necessary, to be appointed from disabled officers
serving as before mentioned, and removable by the board from
time to time as the interests of the institution may require.
At a meeting of the board of managers held on the 12th of
April, 1867, E. B. Wolcott and John S. Cavender, two of their
number, were appointed a committee to select a plan for asylum
buildings at Milwaukee, to make and accept proposals for the
same, to superintend the construction, and to put the building
then owned by the asylum in condition for immediate use. At
the January meeting the president of the board was added to
the committee. Shortly thereafter several building contracts
were entered into, and the work of construction was commenced.
On the 28th of December, 1868, Yates, a disabled officer who
had served in the Union army, and who was deputy-governor
of the branch asylum at Milwaukee, addressed a communication to Cavender and Wolcott, from which it appears that he
had theretofore purchased the materials, employed the labor,
and directed the work for the new building, not included in
the special contracts with mason, tin, and iron workers. Up to
that date his services in that connection had been given gratuitously, but in consequence of the action of the board, whereby
his duties and responsibilities were increased and his pay as
deputy-governor reduced, he gave notice, in the same communication, that he would not assume or take any further responsibility for anything pertaining to the construction of the new
building, unless the asylum, in consideration of his perfecting
the plans, directing the work, employing the labor, purchasing
materials, and putting the institution in proper working order,
would pay him five per cent on all purchases and disbursements
that had been or until the complet'3n of the building might be
made by him or under his direction, outside of contracts for
masons, roofers, and steam-heater's works. Upon that communication, containing these propositions, Cavender and Wolcott,
as "Building Com. Nat. Asylum," in good faith, we doubt not,
hut without any action upon the part of the board of managers, made and signed this indorsement: "Col. Theo. Yates will*
,om,,rplete the work as proposed, and will be paid in the manner
and to the amount herein named."

YATES V. NATIONAL HODIE.

[Sup. t

Yates claims in this action the sum of 88,414.96 for services
performed by him under that agreement.
The court below gave a peremptory instruction to the jury
to find for the defendant, which was done. Judgment was
entered thereon. Yates sued out this writ.
We have not been favored with a brief on behalf of the
defendant, but are informed by counsel for the plaintiff that
the court below was of opinion that Yates was prohibited
by the by-laws of the institution, of which he was an officer,
from contracting for or receiving compensation for the services
by him rendered. In that view we concur. One of the bylaws in force when the agreement was made provides that "the
board shall fix such stated and sufficient salaries to any officer
or agent of the establishment, payable in money, as they shall
deem proper, which shall be in full for the services of the officer
or agent, and not to be diminished during his term of office.
No perquisites, fees, allowances, or advantages, other than his
salary or stated pay, shall be permitted to any officer, agent, or
employ6 of the establishment, under any pretence whatsoever.'
Another by-law declared that "the president of the board
shall . . . approve all contracts, make and sign all requisitions," &c. If the appointment of Wolcott and Cavender as a
committee with power to make and accept proposals for the
new building, and to superintend its construction, authorized
them, without consulting the board, or without the concurrence
of its president, to make all contracts pertaining to the erec
tion of that building, it by no means follows that they could
make a binding contract with an officer of the institution, in
conflict with its by-laws and whereby he could receive, in
addition to his salary or stated pay, "perquisites, fees, allowances, or advantages." The manifest object of the by-law
in question was to remove from the officers of the asylum,
charged with the immediate conduct of its affairs, all possible temptation to so manage the institution as to derive pecuniary advantage therefrom beyond their respective salaries
or stated pay.
It is contended that the plaintiff was not bound, in his capa.city as deputy-governor, to perform any services whatever in
connection with the construction of the new building. Were

(Jet. 1880.]

ARTHUR V. JACOBY.

this conceded, - as, perhaps, it must be, - he is confronted
not only with the fact that he was an officer of the asylum,
with a stated salary, but with an express prohibition, in the
by-laws of the institution, against his receiving under any pretence whatsoever, perquisites, fees, allowances, or advantages
other than his salary or stated pay. The evidence furnishes no
reason to suppose that the board of managers were aware of, or
ever recognized or approved the agreement of the building
committee to compensate him for special services. The sole
question, therefore, is whether the building committee had
authority to contract with an officer of the institution that he
should receive compensation or pecuniary advantages, beyond
his salary, for the services in question. They clearly had not,
and, without considering other questions argued by counsel, we
approve, for the reasons given, the instruction to find for the
defendant.
Judgment affirmed,

ARTHUR v. JACOBY.
1. A. imported certain pictures painted by hand on porcelain. When they are
framed or in any manner set, the porcelain, which, being manufactured
only as a ground upon which to obtain a good surface to paint, and not for
any independent use, is obscured from view, constitutes of itself no article
of chinaware, and forms no material part of their value. Held, that they

are subject to the duty of ten per cent ad valorem prescribed by schedule
M of sect. 2504 of the Revised Statutes, as paintings not otherwise pro-

vided for.
2. Where the bill of exceptions sets forth all the facts, and states that they
were proved, this court, if the law arising upon them is for the plaintiff,

will not reverse the judgment, because a peremptory instruction was given
to return a verdict in his favor.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Assistant Attorney-General Smith for the plaintiff in
error.
Mr. Lewis Saliders and 31r. George N. Sanders, contra.

