Oct. 1880.]

WARD

v. TODD.

WARD v. TODD.
A court which has once rightfully obtained jurisdiction of the parties may
retain it until complete relief is afforded within the general scope of the sub.
ject-matter of the suit.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Arkansas.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

14r. U. 3. _Rose for the plaintiff in error.
141r. Charles P. Redinond, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WArE delivered the opinion of the
corurt.
This was a suit against Ward, the plaintiff in error, on a
judgment in the Fayette Circuit Court of the State of Kentucky, and the only question is whether, in the record of the
judgment sued on, it appears that the State court had jurisdiction to render a personal judgment against Ward. The facts
are these:
On the 17th of June, 1872, Ward executed to the firm of
Todd & Rafferty his note for $10,733.28, payable two years
after date, with interest at the rate of seven per cent per annum
until paid, and secured it by a mortgage on certain property.
Afterwards, on the 31st of July, in the same year, he gave his
note to the same firm for 83,528, payable, with interest at the
same rate, in one year from date, and secured it by mortgage
on the same property. On the 8th of August, 1873, Todd, as
surviving partner of the firm of Todd & Rafferty, filed a petition in the Fayette Circuit Court, in which he set forth the due
execution of these two notes and mortgages and their respective
liens on the mortgaged property. He also stated that the note
of July 31 was due and unpaid, and that the one of June 17
was a subsisting debt but not due. He also set forth a purchase of the mortgaged property by him at tax sale for $55.09,
and that the city of Lexington had a lien on the property for
unpaid purchase-money. The notes and mortgages were filed
as exhibits to the petition, and the prayer was for a judgment
-n the small note, which was due, for a sale of the mortgaged

WARD

v. TODD.

[Sup. (i..

property to pay that note, and that the residue of the proceeds
might be retained to satisfy the other note and the claim for
taxes. Ward was served personally with process in the case
Sept. 8,1873. On the 17th of September Todd amended his petition by setting forth that he had paid the city of Lexington $680
in full for the amount due as purchase-money of the property,
and asking that this sum might be paid out of the proceeds of any
sale that should be made. After this, process was again issued
and served personally on Ward, September 18. On the 19th
of November a decree was entered in the cause by default, finding the amount due on the note of Xuly 31 and the claim for
taxes, and establishing the lien for the debt originally due the
city. The lien under the mortgage to secure the note under
date of June 17 was also recognized and established, and inasmuch as the property could not be sold in parts except to a
limited extent, it was ordered that the whole be sold. On the
29th of November Ward appeared, and on his motion this
judgment or decree was set aside and he had leave to answer,
which he did, setting up, in effect, that the debt of June 17
was not due; that Todd had no lien on the mortgaged property for the amount he had paid the city of Lexington; that he
was not entitled to foreclose any lien for taxes, as that was not
due, and that the property was capable of division for the purposes of a sale. He therefore asked that only so much of the
property be sold as was required to satisfy the debt then due,
Thereupon, on the 9th of December, it was adjudged: 1, That
Todd recover of Ward the amount of the note of July 31, with
interest until paid; and, 2, that so much of the mortgaged
property as was necessary to pay that debt be sold. "Upon the
other questions raised in the petition and answer" the court
took further time. On the 4th of February, 1874, the master
reported a sale of part of the mortgaged property sufficient to
pay the note of July 81. This sale was confirmed on the 5th
of February, 1874, but no decree was entered in respect to thG
claim for taxes or the amount paid the city to discharge its
claim for purchase-money, and on the 15th of August following Todd produced and asked leave to file an amended petition in the cause. To this Ward appeared by his counsel and
objected, but the objection was overruled and the leave granted.

Oct. 1880.]

WARD v. TODD.

329

In this petition Todd set forth that the note of July 31 had
become due, and he asked a judgment for this debt and a
further foreclosure of the mortgage. After this, service on
Waid by publication was made, he being at the time absent
from Kentucky and a resident of Arkansas. No personal service of process was made on him within the State after this
amendment. On the 27th of November a decree was entered
that Todd recover of Ward the amount of the note of June 17,
1872, with interest; that what remained of the mortgaged
property be sold; that so much of the petition as related to the
claim of the city of Lexington for the original price of the lot,
and to the claim for taxes, be dismissed, and that execution
might issue for so much of the debt and costs adjudged to
Todd as remained unpaid by the sale of the mortgaged property. Under this decree the property was sold for $7,000.
That sale was confirmed, and this suit was brought on the
judgment to recover the balance remaining due after the proceeds bad been applied as directed by the decree.
This statement of the facts shows clearly that the court had
jurisdiction of Ward personally. He was not only served with
process in Kentucky, but he appeared personally in the action
and filed an answer to the petition. In this answer he put in
issue his liability in that suit for the money paid the city of
Lexington and the money paid for the taxes. In the first
decree these issues were left undecided and the cause retained
on that account. Afterwards Todd asked leave to amend his
petition, and Ward appeared unconditionally to resist that application. The leave was granted, and a judgment afterwards
rendered in accordance with the prayer of the amendment.
At the same time the issues left undetermined under the original petition were decided in favor of Ward. The amendment
was germane to the matters set forth in the original petition,
and the court, having once obtained rightful jurisdiction of the
parties, could retain it until complete relief was afforded within
the general scope of the subject-matter of the action. Obey
v. Gallagher, 93 U. S. 199. Ward evidently recognized this
fact when he appeared by his counsel and resisted the applica
tion to amend so as to charge him personally with the amoun
of the note which had fallen due while the suit had been pen,

BOULDIN v. ALEXANDER.

[Sup. Ct.

ing. The claim is not that the attorney had no authority to
appear in the suit, but that his appearance was for a special
purpose only. This is clearly contradicted by the record. A
part of the issues originally made in the suit were then pending, and it was the duty of counsel to be in attendance on the
court to protect his client's interest until the whole subjectmatter of the litigation was finally disposed of.
The service by publication after the amendment was, under
the circumstances, unnecessary, and did not deprive the court
of the jurisdiction which it had acquired before.
Judgment affirmed.

BouLDLN v. ALEXANDER.
1. Pending a suit brought to control the affairs of a church and obtain posses
sion of its property by a portion of the congregation against its founder
and another portion, each claiming to be the lawfully elected trustees,
every member who desired to worship at the church was permitted to do
so, and it was kept exclusively for church purposes. A decree passed
for the complainants. Held, that they were not entitled to recover for
the use and occupation of the church premises, as no claim therefor was
made in their bill, and the defendants derived no pecuniary advantage
therefrom.
2. The referee having found that money had been collected on behalf of the
church by the pastor, who held a deed of trust on the church property to
secure notes payable to him, this court directs that he be allowed by the
court below to produce them ik order that the money be applied as a credit
thereon, or, upon his failure to 'to so, or to satisfactorily account for them,
that a decree be entered against him for the money.
APPEAL

from the Supreme Court of the District of Co.

lumbia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Saul S. Henkle for the appellants.
Mr. Thomas Wilson, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The bill in this case was filed by Joseph Alexander and

