Oct. 1880.]

SCHAUMBURG

V. UNITED STATES.

SO&UMBURG V. UNITED STATES.
1. UnUed States v. Eckford (6 WalL 484) reaffirmed.
2. Where matters of set-off are pleaded by the defendant in a suit brought by
the United States, the refusal of the court below to direct the jury to
certify the amount which they may find due to him from the plaintiff will
not be reviewed here.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
M1Ir. George W. Biddle and Mr. C'harles 7lenry Jones for the
plaintiff in error.

ne Solicitor-General, eontra.
AIR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.

The judgment in this case is affirmed' on the authority of
Claims for credit can
be used in suits against persons indebted to the United States
to reduce or extinguish the debt, but not as the foundation of a
judgment against the government. In the present case the
court instructed the jury as matter of law that the plaintiff in
error, from July 1, 1836, until March 24, 1845, was in the
military service of the United States as a first lieutenant of
dragoons or cavalry; and that he was entitled as such to credit
for the pay and emoluments that accrued during that period,
and this was admitted to exceed the debt sued on by the United
States. The jury thereupon brought in a verdict for the defendant. Had the jury gone further and struck the balance
that would be due from the United States, no judgment could
have been rendered for it. Any verdict, therefore, beyond the
one actually given would have been fruitless. The court itself
decided that the plaintiff in error was entitled to his pay and
emoluments from July 1, 1836, to March 24, 1845. While
sometimes the jury have been permitted to certify to a balance
they find to be due from the government in cases of this kind,
and under some circumstances it may be proper they should do
so, a refusal of the court to direct that it be done cannot be
reviewed here.
Judgment affrmed.

United States v. .Ekford, 6 Wall. 484.

