2T8

BONDURANT, TuTuIx, v. WATSON.

[Sup. Ct.

or invalid according to Turkish law and customs, it is intrinsically so vicious in its character and tendency, and so repugnant to all our notions of right and morality, that it can have
no countenance in the courts of the United States.
Our conclusion, therefore, is that the third position of the
plaintiff is not well taken.

It follows that the judgment of the court below must be
affirmed; and it is
So ordered.

BON-DURA-NT, TUTRix, v. WATSo1.
The only paper purporting to be the writ of error in this case is in the name
and bears the teste, of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Louisiana
and is signed by the clerk and sealed with the seal of that court. Held, that

the suit must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana.

The writ of error in this case is as follows:
"

-

TED STATES OF A~mnICA,

"State of Louisiana,ss :
The Hon. Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the State of
Louis'a, to the Clerk of the Supreme Court of the State
of Louisiana, greeting:
"Because in the record and proceedings, as also in the rendition of
the judgment of a plea, which is in our said Supreme Court, before
us, between Frank Watson, plaintiff, and Mrs. Ella F. Bondurant,
tutrix, &c., defendant, No. 6564 on the docket of this court, it is
claimed by the said defendant that, being a citizen of the State of
Mississippi, and the said Watson being a citizen of Louisiana, and
in the said cause the rights, titles, and privileges of said defendant,
Mrs. Bondurant, tutrix, &c., under the statutes and under the Constitution of the United States, are by her claimed, and that the
decision and judgment of this honorable Supreme Court of Louisiana is against the said titles, rights, and privileges of said de
fendant, Mrs. Bondurant, specially set up under the laws and.
the Constitution of the United States, and because the said Mrs.
S3ondurant has filed her petition herein for a writ of error to the

')ct. 1880.]

BONDURAINT, TUTRIX, v. WATSON.

hon. Supreme Court of the United States at Washington, D. C.
elaiming that a manifest error hath happened, to the great damage
Of the said defendant, Mrs. E. F. Bondurant, executrix, tutrix, &c.,
as by said defendant's complaint appears: We being willing that
error, if any hath been, should be duly corrected, and full and speedy
justice done to the parties aforesaid in this behalf, do command
you, if judgment be therein given, that then under your seal, dis-.
tinctly and openly, you send the record and proceedings aforesaid,
with all things concerning the same, to the Supreme Court of the
United States, together with this writ, so that you have the same
at Washington, on the second Monday of October next, in the said
Supienie Court, to be then and there held, that the record and proceelings atoresaid being inspected, the said Supreme Court may
cause further to be done therein to correct that error what of right,
and according to the laws and customs of the United States, should
be done.
"Witness the Honorable T. C. Manning, Chief Justice of the
said Supreme Court of Louisiana, this fifteenth day of December,
in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventy
seven.
[SEAL.]

"AIl'D ROMAN,
"Clerk of the Supreme Court of Louisiana

i1r. Samuel R. Walker for the plaintiff in error.
31r. Edwii T. llerricl and A.. George WV. Race, contra.
Mr. COIEF JUSTICE WATE delivered the opinion of the
court.
We have no jurisdiction in this case, as no writ of error has
ever been issued. !iMtssinav. Cavazos, 6 Wall. 355. By the
ninth section of the act of May 8, 1792, c. 36 (1 Stat. 278), it
was made the duty of the clerk of this court to transmit to the
clerks of the several courts the form of a writ of error approved
by two of the justices of this court. This was done, and the
form adopted required the writ to be issued in the name of the
President of the United States, and have the teste of the Chief
Justice of this court. Sect. 1004 of the Revised Statutes is as
follows : -

-

"Writs of error returnable to the Supreme Court may be issued as
well by the clerks of the circuit courts under the seals thereof, as
by the clerk of the Supreme Court. When so issued they shall be

280

BONDURANT, TUTRIX, v. WATSON.

[Sup. Ct.

as nearly as each case may admit, agreeable to the form of a writ of
error transmitted to the clerks of the several circuit courts by the
clerk of the Supreme Court, in pursuance of section nine of the
act of May eight, seventeen hundred and ninety-two, chapter thirtysix."
The writ in this case was in the name of the Chief Justice ol
the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana. It bore the
teste of that Chief Justice, and was signed by the clerk, and
sealed by the seal of that court. It had not a single requisite
of a writ of this court. Had it been even colorably issued from
this court, it might have been amended under sect. 1005 of the
Revised Statutes, which is certainly very liberal, and as follows: "The Supreme Court may, at any time, in its discretion and upon
such terms as it may deem just, allow an amendment of a writ of
error, when there is a mistake in the teste of the writ, or a seal to
the writ is wanting, or when the writ is made returnable on a day
other than the day of the commencement of the term next ensuing
the issue of the writ, or when the statement of the title of the action
or parties thereto in the writ is defective, if the defect can be remedied by reference to the accompanying record, and in all other particulars of form: P.ovided the effect has not prejudiced, and the
amendment will not injure, the defendant in error."

But here there is nothing which even purports to be a writ
from this court, and there is, therefore, nothing to amend. If
we should permit the parties to change the seal, or the title, or
to do everything else which this section allows, there would
still be no writ, for nothing has been done either in the name
of the President or under the authority of the United States.
The Supreme Court of the State has directed that its record be
certified here for examination and review, but no writ to that
effect either in form or substance has ever issued from this
court. As such a writ is necessary to our jurisdiction, the
suit is
Dismissed.

