BAMBERGER

v.

TERRY

[Sup. Ut

stamps, and more than ten per cent of the face value of proprietary stamps.
Jludgmnent affirmed.
MR. JUSTIOE FiELD, with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE
dissenting.
I dissent from the judgment of the court. I think that Mr.
Folger was entitled to the difference between the five per cent
given by the government and the amount he allowed to the
purchasers.
BRADLEY,

BAMBERGER V. TERRY.
1. A stipulation in writing, signed by the parties and filed with the clerk, that
the cause shall be tried by the court, is equivalent to their waiver of a
jury.
2. The court is authorized by sect. 954 of the Revised Statutes to alc iw,at any
time during the trial, amendments in the pleadings; and where it has done
so, it must, in its discretion, determine whether the submission of the cause
ought to be vacated.
3. Where the plaintiff is permitted to amend his declaration so as to avoid
a variance between it and the proofs, and it appears that neither the
nature nor the merits of the issue are thereby changed, the defendant
is not entitled to an order setting aside the submission of the cause for
trial.

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Connecticut.
The parties to this action having stipulated in writing that
it should be tried by the court, the following facts were found
by it to have been proven: On or about Aug. 12, 1875, the firm of S. A. Castle & Co.,
of the city of New York, consisting of Samuel A. Castle, Rufun
E. Hitchcock, and Henry S. McGrane, being insolvent, made
an assignment of all their goods and effects, for the joint and
equal benefit of their creditors, under the statute of New York
of April 13, 1860, to Leopold Bamberger, of that city, who
accepted the trust, gave bonds according to law, and entered
upon his duties Aug. 12, 1875.
ERROR

Oct. 1880.]

18AMBERGER

V. TERRY.

Previously to this time the firm had been the selling agents
in that city of the United States Button Company, a jointstock corporation, duly incorporated in pursuance of the laws
of Connecticut, and established in Waterbury. The firm had
in their store on Aug. 12, 1875, the manufactured goods of the
company theretofore sent for sale upon commission to a large
amount, and being the property of the company. Their markit value was 1,7,500. The company had not been in the habit
of drawing against its consignments, but prior to that date had
obtained from Castle & Co. their accommodation acceptances
to the amount of -22,500; and it was agreed between the
parties at the time when the acceptances were given that the
firm should have, as security against their liability upon them,
a lien on the goods which were from time to time unsold.
These acceptances had been discounted for the benefit of the
company, and were then held and owned by the Waterbury
National Bank.
The goods of the company in the possession of Castle & Co.
were specified in their inventory, which was duly made and
filed, in pursuance of the laws of New York, under the head of
" Goods on hand on which allowances have been made, and
mercjandise in stock," &c., as "consigned by the United States
Button Co.," and were appraised at $6,054. The assignee thus
had notice of the ownership of the goods. He immediately
took possession of them as his own, and as equitably belonging to the creditors of Castle & Co., and proceeded forthwith
to sell them as rapidly as he was able for the benefit of the
estate. On Sept. 24, 1875, the company took up and received
the acceptances from the Waterbury National Bank by the
suitstitution of the company's notes therefor; and thereupon
the president of the company carried said acceptances to New
York, tendered them to Bamberger, and demanded of him the
goods belonging to the company, but he refused to deliver
the same, and continued the sale thereof.
The Superior Court of New Haven County, on or about Nov.
1, 1875, appointed Terry, the plaintiff, receiver of the estate
of the Button Company, and authorized him, by its decree,
to execute the powers specified in the General Statutes of
Connecticut. He accepted said trust, gave bonds pursuant to

BAMBIRGER V. T[RRS..

[Sup. Ct.

law, which were accepted by the court, and entered upon his
duties.
Nov. 24, 1875, the plaintiff, accompanied by the secretary
of the company as a witness, again tendered the acceptances
to Bamberger, in the city of New York, and demanded the
goods as the property of the Button Company. Bamberger
refused to deliver them. The plaintiff then asked him if there
were any other acceptances outstanding against the goods, or
if there were any other claims or charges against the goods for
interest, commissions, &c., except the tendered drafts, to which
inquiry Bamberger replied in the negative. Upon the payment of said accommodation acceptances, Castle & Co. were indebted to the Button Company in a large amount, as appeared
by the inventory.
The defendant objected to all evidence of the demand of
Terry as receiver upon Bamberger, and of his refusal and of
the title of Terry to the goods, upon the following grounds:"It being conceded by the plaintiff that all the demanded
goods at the time of the appointment of said Terry, and continuously until said demand, and until after the bringing of
this suit, were in the city of New York, all evidence of demand and refusal and of the title of said Terry is objected to
on the ground that said Terry's title is confined to the prop
erty of said corporation within the State of Connecticut and
the jurisdiction of the State court."
The objection was overruled, whereupon the defendant excepted.
At the close of plaintiff's evidence the defendant moved for
judgment in his favor, on the ground,1. That the plaintiff's only title to the goods in question is
as receiver appointed by the State court of Connecticut.
2. All the goods in question are in New York, and beyond
the jurisdiction of the courts of Connecticut.
3. The statutes and courts of Connecticut have no power to
give title to goods located beyond the jurisdiction of that State.
The motion was denied, and the defendant excepted.
At the close of the testimony, the plaintiff asked and obtained leave, against the objection of the defendant, to amend
the declaration by the addition of counts for a conversion prior

Oet. 1880.1

BAMBERGE

v. TERRY.

to the plaintiff's appointment. Opportunity was given to the
3efendant, after the allowance of the amendments, to introduce additional testimony if he desired, but he claimed that
a new issue having been raised, he was entitled to a trial by
jury upon the whole case.
The court held that the defendant having stipulated to try
the case by the court, and having closed his pleadings and pre.
.nted all his evidence, had waived his right to trial by jury.
.Jithginent having been rendered in favor of the plaintiff, the
dh.fendant sued out this writ of error.
3ir. R. B. Warden and Mr. IS. W. Jonston, for the plaintiff
in error.
Mr. 8. W. Kellogg and Hr. George E. Terry, eontra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This record shows that on the 25th of May, 1876, Bamberger, the defendant below, moved that the cause be entered
on the jury docket of the court, "pursuant to the statute in
such case provided, and as of right he may demand." Afterwards he stipulated in writing that the cause be tried by the
court. This was equivalent to a waiver of a jury. The stipulation was duly filed and entered of record. Afterwards the
parties appeared and the case was tried by the court. At the
close of the testimony, Terry, the plaintiff below, asked and,
against the objection of the defendant, obtained leave to amend
his declaration so as to avoid a variance between the pleadings
and the proof. The defendant then put in a general denial to
the amended declaration and demanded a jury trial. This the
court refused, but gave the defendant leave to introduce additional evidence, if he desired.
By sect. 954, Rev. Stat., the trial court may at any time
permit either of the parties to amend any defect in the process
or pleadings upon such conditions as it shall in its discretion,
or by its rules, prescribe. This clearly authorizes the allowance of amendments during the progress of a trial in furtherance of justice. When such an amendment is permitted the
court must, in its discretion, determine whether any submission which has been made ought to be vacated. Here the

PENNOCK

V.

COMBISSONERS.

[Sup. Cr.

court decided that it ought not, and in this we see nothing
wrong. Neither the nature of the case nor the real issue between the parties, as it had been tried, was changed by the
amendment. All that had been done was to present by the
pleadings, fairly and on its merits, the controversy as it had
actually been tried.
Judgnment affirmed.

PENNOCK V. COMISSIONERS.
1. Lands in Kansas held in fee-simple by a half-blood member of the tribe of
Sac and Fox Indians of the Mississippi under a patent from the United
States, issued pursuant to the seventeenth article of the treaty of Feb. 18
1867 (15 Stat. 405), are not exempt from State taxation.
2. The Kansas Indians (5 Wall. 737) distinguished.

to the Supreme Court of the State of Kansas.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
ERROR

Mr. George B. Peek and Mr. Thomnas 1?yan for the plaintiff
in error.
No counsel appeared for the defendants in error.
delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff, Sarah A. Pennock, is an Indian, and a member,
by "birth, blood, and descent," of the confederate tribes of
Sacs and Foxes of the Mississippi. At the date of the treaties of 1859 and 1867, between those tribes and the United
States, she was the wife of William Whistler, a member of the
same tribe. After his death she intermarried with one Henry
Pennock, a white person, a citizen of the United States, and
a resident of Kansas, with whom she now lives. In May, 1871,
she was the owner in fee of certain lands in Franklin County
in that State, which were listed and assessed by its officers for
taxes in the same way as other real property in the county.
The taxes and charges being unpaid, the lands wero sold to
pay tbhem, and certificates of sale given. To restrain the issue
of dweds to the purchasers, and to set aside the tax sale as illegal, the present suit was brought. The District Court of the
MR. JusTIcE FIELD

