Oct. 1880.]

CUCULLU V. HERNANDEZ.

CuCuLLu v. HERNANDEZ.
1. The failure to inscribe or to reinscribe a mortgage of lands in Louisiana doei
not affect its validity as against the parties thereto or their heirs.
2. To -ecure the payment of his note, A., the owner of lands, executed a mort.
gage of them, which was duly inscribed, but never reinscribed. He subsequently conveyed them to B., who contracted to pay the note as part of the
purchase-money, and, to secure it and the remainder of the purchase-money,
granted a mortgage of them with vendor's privilege, in the act of sale to
him, wihich was in due time inscribed and reinscribed. After the note was
overdue, B. paid interest thereon from time to time; and, to compel him to
perform his contract, A. brought suit, which was pending at the time that
lie filed his bill of foreclosure against B. and C., the latter being the transferee of the note and mortgage executed by A. Hald, 1. That the prescription as to the note was, against A. and B., interrupted by the payment
of the interest, atid nas suspended during the continuance of that suit.
2. That, notwithstanding the lapse of more than ten years since the inscription of that mortgage, C. is entitled to priority of payment out of the proceeds of the sale of the lands.
3. A party, after contesting, by prolonged litigation, a claim against him, is not
entitled to the benefit of art. 2652 of the Civil Code of Louisiana, and cannot cancel it by paying what it cost the party to whom it was transferred.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

31r. Jaseph P. Honor and ir. William S. Benedict for the
appellant.
AJ,-. Thomas J. Semmes, eontra.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS delivered the opinion of the court.
On Feb. 1, 1850, the complainant, Joseph S. Cucullu, was
the owner of certain real estate situate in the parish of St. Bernard, in the State of Louisiana, known as the Myrtle Grove
Plantation. On the day mentioned he made and delivered to
one E. Villavaso his note of that date for R.10,000 borrowed
money, due in twelve months, and secured the same by an act
of mortgage, dated Feb. 7, 1850, on said plantation; and on
Feb. 4, 1853, he made another note, also for 810,000 borrowed
money, due in one year, payable to himself, and indorsed and
delivered it to the same Villavaso, and secured it by another
act of mortgage on said plantation. No part of the money

CUCULLU v. HERNANDEZ.

[Sup. Ct.

which Cucullu by these notes promised to pay has ever been
paid. The mortgages executed to secure the notes were duly
inscribed in the proper mortgage office, but have never been
reinscribed.
On Sept. 28, 1857, Cucullu sold and conveyed the Myrtle
Grove Plantation to one Augustus W. Walker for the purchase
price of $135,000. Twenty-five thousand dollars of the consideration was paid in cash, and for the residue Walker gave his
notes, tw- for $5,000 each, both payable Jan. 31, 1858; six for
$13,333, payable respectively on December 10 in the years
1858, 1859, 1860, 1861, 1862, and 1863; and he assumed to
pay for Cucullu the two notes above mentioned, made by him
for $10,000 each, payable to Villavaso. To secure the payment of these obligations for the purchase-money, including
the Villavaso notes, Walker, in the act of sale from Cucullu
to him, granted a mortgage on the Myrtle Grove Plantation,
with vendor's privilege in favor of Cucullu.
The two notes for 85,000 were never paid ; it is conceded
that they are prescribed, and they do not appear in this case.
Walker paid in full the second of the notes for $13,333, being
the one which fell due Jan. 10, 1859, and one half of the first
note for $13,333, being the one which fell due Jan. 10, 1858.
The other half of this note, with interest, and the four other
aotes for 813,333, remain wholly unpaid. These unpaid notes
of Walker were all claimed by Cucullu, in the bill filed in this
case, to be his property.
The mortgage granted in the act of sale by Walker to secure
the obligation entered into by him for the payment of the purchase price of the Myrtle Grove Plantation was duly inscribed
and twice reinscribed in the mortgage office, according to law,
thus preserving the privilege of the mortgage. By act dated
Feb. 4, 1858, between Villavaso and Walker, the time for the
payment by the latter of the Cucullu notes was extended until
Feb. 1, 1859.
In 1860 Cucullu, desiring that the notes for $10,000, given
by him to Villavaso, and secured by mortgages on the Myrtle
Grove Plantation, should be. paid off by Walker, who had asstimed their payment in the manner above mentioned, began a
silit against Walker in the District Court for the Parish of St.

0ot. 1880.]

CUCULLU V. HERNANDEZ.

Bernard, to compel him to pay them, and he prayed that
Walker be ordered and adjudged to discharge the said Villa,
vaso mortgages. To this suit Walker filed an exception, in
which he alleged that the petition disclosed no cause of action;
the exception was overruled. Walker then filed an answer,
denying that the Villavaso notes were due, and alleging that
they had been extended and renewed. The court gave a
,h,,ree for Cucullu, treating the suit as one to enforce the spevith( performance of Walker's contract to pay the Villavaso
It,,-s and mortgages.
This decree was reversed by the Snprlie Court of Louisiana, on the ground that Villavaso was
nt made a party to the suit, and the cause was remanded in
order that Villavaso might be brought in.
Thereupon, on Oct. 7, 1861, Cucullu filed an amended petition, in which he averred that, "by the decision of the Supreme
Court rendered in this case, the holders of the mortgage notes
and claims, the payment of which petitioner sought to enforce
iii his original petition, were necessary parties to the suit;"
the amended petition, therefore, prayed that Villavaso be made
a party, and judgment rendered as prayed for in the original
petition.
Villavaso, having been cited, filed an- answer to the amended
petition on Feb. 7, 1862, in which he averred that Cucullu had
no cause of action against him, because he being the holder and
owner of the two notes of Cucullu for $10,000 each, secured by
the mortgages of Cucullu to enforce their payment, had already
issued executory process against Walker on his contract to pay
these notes. After the filing of this answer nothing was done
in the suit, and it is still pending.
On Oct. 21, 1861, a petition was filed in the District Court
of St. Bernard Parish by Villavaso against Walker to foreclose
the mortgages given by Cucullu to him on the Myrtle Grove
Plantation to secure the two notes made by Cucullu for $10,000
each. This suit was a writ of seizure and sale taken out against
Walker, who was Cucullu's vendee, and who was, at the time
the writ was issued, in possession of the plantation. The writ
bore date Nov. 21, 1861.
In this suit Hernandez, on Oot. 1, 1874, intervened and filed
his petition, averring that he was the owner of certain of the,

OUCULLU V. RERNANDE2.

[Sup. Ot.

notes made by Walker to Cucullu, and secured by mortgage
on the Myrtle Grove Plantation, and claiming that the Walker
mortgage had precedence of those from Cucullu to Villavaso,
because the latter had not been reinscribed within ten years,
and praying an injunction against the sale of the plantation
under the writ of seizure and sale, which bad been issued upon
the mortgages given by Cucullu to Villavaso. The injunction
was allowed. Before this suit was finally terminated, Villavaso
sold out to one James E. Zunts his interest therein, and all his
title to the notes executed by Cueullu, and to the mortgages on
the Mytle Grove Plantation given to secure them, and Zunts
was substituted as plaintiff in the suit.
The court declared Hernandez, by reason of his ownership
of the Walker notes, to be a first-mortgage creditor on the
Myrtle Grove Plantation. Zunts, the vendee of Villavaso,
alone appealed from this judgment. It was affirmed by the
Supreme Court in May, 1876, on the ground that Villavaso
had not preserved the priority of his mortgages as against Hernandez, who was declared to be a third person, by proper reinscription, and therefore Hernandez, representing a part of
the second mortgage, bad priority over the first.
On Aug. 7, 1875, the mortgaged property had been sold by
the sheriff, and adjudicated to Zunts for $10,000. He paid no
part of the purchase-money, because he claimed the right, as
first mortgagee, to retain the entire price as in part payment
of his mortgages.
After the decision in favor of Hernandez, just mentioned,
Zunts, by notarial act dated July 7, 1877, sold and transferred
to Hernafidez "all his right, title, interest, claim, and demand,
of whatsoever nature or kind, in and to Myrtle Grove Plantation."
Hernandez having thus, as he claimed, acquired all the rights
of Zunts in the suit, took a rule to compel the sheriff of St.
Bernard Parish to execute a deed to him for the Myrtle Grove
Plantation on payment of $10,000, the price at which it was
8truck off to Zunts at the sale made on Aug. 7, 1875. This
rule was made absolute July 7, 1877.
On Nov. 28, 1877, the bill in this case was filed by Cucullu.
Ie claimed to be the owner of five of the notes made by Walke!

Oct. 1880.j

CUCULLU v. HERNANDEZ.

for the purchase-money of the Myrtle Grove Plantation. He
averred that the plantation was the property of the succession
of Walker, the mortgagor, but that it was claimed by Hernande7 and various other persons, each of whom asserted title to
four of the Walker notes, which he, the complainant, claimed
as his property, and to collect which he had brought the suit
to foreclose.
On March 23, 1379, the Circuit Court made a decree in the
casf, by which it was declared that the title to the Myrtle
Grove Plontation was in the succession of Walker ; that Cucullu was the holder and owner of the unpaid notes made by
Walker and secuied by his mortgage on said plantation, being
the same mentioned in the bill of complaint, amounting to the
sum of $57,000, with interest, as claimed in the bill, and that
the same continued to be a lien upon said plantation ; that
Hernandez, by purchase from Zunts, the vendee of Villavaso,
was the owner of the two notes for $10,000 made by Cucullu
and secured by mortgages on said plantation before its sale by
Cucullu to Walker. The decree directed the sale of the plantation and the application of the proceeds, first, to the payment
Of the Cucullu notes held by Hernandez, and the surplus, if
any, to the payment of the Walker notes held by complainant;
the effect of the decree being to give priority to the notes and
mortgages executed by Cucullu.
The complainant Cucullu alone appealed from this decree.
This fact eliminates from the case many controversies decided
by the Circuit Court, and the evidence applicable thereto,
and leaves only for decision by this court these questions:
Whether the Villavaso notes and mortgages were subsisting obligations; whether Hernandez was their owner; and whether,
as such owner, he was entitled to priority of payment over
the unpaid Walker notes and the mortgage by which they
were secured, and of which Cucullu was decreed to be the
owner.
The complainant insists, firstly, that Hernandez is not the
owner of the Villavaso notes; that the act of transfer by Zunts
to Hernandez, dated July 7, 1877, conveyed only the rights of
Zunts as purchaser of the plantation at the sheriff's sale, made
on Aug. 7, 1875; and to support this view the complainant

CUCULLU V. HERNANDEZ.

[Sup. Ct,

refers to the affidavit of Zunts, filed by him in the Circuit
Court in support of a petition for rehearing in this case. In
this affidavit Zunts declares that by said act he did not transfer to Hernandez the Cuculla notes, but only his rights as purchaser of the Myrtle Grove Plantation under the sale of Aug.
7, 1875.
This affidavit cannot be considered in evidence, for two reasons: first, because the transfer by Zunts to Hernandez being
in writing must speak for itself, and the purpose of Zunts in
executing the transfer must be derived from it, and not from
his subsequent declarations; and, second, even if the evidence
were competent, it should have been presented in the form of
a deposition regularly taken, according to the equity rules by
which the witnesses might have been subjected to cross-examination. The affidavit, being purely ex parte, cannot be considered on the final hearing.
Looking at the act of transfer from Zunts to Hernandez, we
think that by a fair construction it conveys the Cucullu notes
and mortgages. It purports to transfer to Hernandez "all the
right, title, interest, claim, and demand, of whatsoever nature
or kind," of Zunts in and to the Myrtle Grove Plantation.
These terms clearly include a conveyance of the rights of
Zunts as mortgagee of the plantation.
But if the transfer had specifically and in terms conveyed to
Hernandez the rights of Zunts as purchaser under the sale of
Aug. 7, 1875, and nothing more, we think it would have carried
with it the notes and mortgages under which the sale was
made. By virtue of the transfer the vendee would have the
right to use them to pay his bid. This clearly implies title to
the notes, and the mortgages by which they were secured. The
fact that the sale was not effectual to convey the title did not
divest Hernandez of his claim to the notes and mortgages, and
reinvest them in Zunts. It is a question between Zunts and
Hernandez. Zunts sold to Hernandez his rights as adjudicatee, and all other title and claim which he held to the Myrtle
Grove Plantation; he received his pay for the transfer; he has
no rights left, either as a purchaser or a mortgagee, and whatever interest he had in either character is vested in Hlernandez
by the act of transfer.

4),J.. 1880.]

CUCULLU V. HERNANDEZ.

But a conclusive answer to complainant's claim, that the
owIership of the Cucullu notes and mortgages was not trans
ferrd to Hernandez by Zunts, is found in the bill of complaint,
Nihich is framed on the assumption of such ownership by Hernandez. The bill avers that " said James E. Zunts, by public
at, in the city of New Orleans, on the 16th of April, 187T,
did sell and transfer unto said Joseph Hernandez all his preton,-d right, title, and interest in and to said Myrtle Grove
Plantation, and all his pretended rights in and to the said suit
of E. Villavaso, James E. Zunts subrogated, versus Augustus
W. Walker, No. 413 of the docket of the Second Judicial District Court of the Parish of St. Bernard, and all his pretended
right in and to the notes sued on, and the pretended privileges
and rights of mortgage thereunto attached, whatever they
might be; and the said Joseph Hernandez, in consequence of
said transfer and sale by James E. Zunts, now claims and pretends to be the owner of said property hereinbefore fully described."
After such an averment in the bill of the purpose and effect
of the act of transfer between Zunts and Hernandez, it does
not lie in the mouth of Cucullu to say that the act did not convey to Hernandez the title to the Cucullu notes and mortgages.
The effect of the act of transfer is not put in issue.- What
Hernandez claims to be its legal import is admitted by the bill,
and that is the end of the controversy upon the point. We
think, therefore, that the title of Hernandez to the Cucullu
notes and mortgages must be considered as settled.
S'o/Illy, It is insisted, however, by complainant, that even
should the title of Hernandez to these notes and mortgages be
conceded, nevertheless it can avail him nothing, because the
notes are prescribed.
Article 3540 (3505) of the Civil Code of Louisiana declares:
"Actions on bills of exchange, notes payable to order or bearer,
except bank-notes, those on all effects negotiable or transferable by indorsement or delivery, and those on all promissory
notes, whether negotiable or otherwise, are prescribed by five
yuars, reckoning from the day when the engagements were
payable." By article 3551 (3516) of the same code, prescription may be interrupted in the two modes laid down in article

CUCULLU v. HERNANDEZ.

[Sup. Ct.

3516 (3482) ; viz., first, by a natural interruption, as when the
debtor makes acknowledgment of the debt, or, second, by the
institution of a suit against the debtor.
One of the Cucullu notes fell due Feb. 1, 1851, and the other
Feb. 4, 1854. By his act of sale of the Myrtle Grove Plantation to Walker on Sept. 27, 1857, Cucullu declared that these
notes had been renewed and would fall due Feb. 4, 1858.
The complainant claims that this was the last natural interruption of the prescription on the notes by Cuculla, and that
as no suit has ever been instituted against him on the notes by
any person, or any demand made upon him for their payment,
the notes are prescribed.
By the act of sale from Oucullu to Walker of the Myrtle
Grove Plantation, under date of Sept. 28, 1857, Cucullu acknowledged the notes given by him to Villavaso to be valid
debts, and specified the time when they would fall due.
Walker agreed to pay the Cucullu notes in the place and
stead of the latter, and such payment was to be in part payment of the purchase price of the plantation.
Walker made payments of interest on these notes from 1858
up to Feb. 4, 1861. It is the settled law of Louisiana that
payments made by a purchaser of property who assumes as
part of -the price a debt due by his vendor, is an interruption
of prescription as to that debt, both as to the purchaser and
vendor. Coclcfteld v. Parley, 21 La. Ann. 521 ; Collier v. His
Creditors, 12 Rob. (La.) 398. So that prescription on the
Cucullu notes was interrupted as late as Feb. 4, 1861.
But on Feb. 2, 1860, Cucullu, as we have seen, instituted
suit against Walker, to enforce the latter's contract included
in the act of sale to him of the Myrtle Grove Plantation, to
compel him to pay the Cucullu notes. To this suit Walker
appeared and made various defences, and the case has been
pending from that time until now, and still remains undisposed
of. In our opinion this suit is a natural interruption of the
prescription, for it is an acknowledgment by Cucullu, in the
most explicit form, that the notes are unpaid and of his liability
to pay them. It is an acknowledgment that continues from
day to day as long as the suit remains pending, so that it is not
merely an interruption but is a suspension of the prescription.

Oct. 1880.]

CUCULLU V. HERNANDEZ.

Furquson v. Glaze, 12 La. Ann. 667; Barrow v. Shields, 13
id. 57.
The claim, therefore, that the Ocullu notes are prescribed
will not hold.
Th;arl, It is next insisted by complainant that the mortgages given by him to Villavaso, not having been reinscribed,
as required by the Code of Louisiana, within every period of
ten years after their date, have become prescribed, and have
lost their lien upon the property described in them.
It is clear from the decisions of the Supreme Court of Louisiana that this result follows only as to third persons, and not as
to the parties to the mortgage. A mortgage to affect third
.1,er, ons must be inscribed in the mortgage office, and to preserve its original rank as to them, it must be reinscribed before
the expiration of ten years from the original inscription. The
j olicy of the law is to make an investigation of liens easy and
simple, and therefore, except for legal mortgages in favor of
minors and married women, no search for mortgages in the
mnortgage office is required for a greater period than ten years
prior to the date of search.
But this applies to third persons only, and not to the mortgagor or his heirs.
"By the words ' third persons' are to be understood all persons who are not parties to the act or to the judgment on which
the mortgage is founded." Civil Code art. 3343.
Consequently neither tme contracting parties nor their
heirs, nor those who were witnesses to the act by which the
mortgage was stipulated, can take advantage of the non-inscription of the mortgage." Civil Code, art. 3344.
By the omission to reinscribe a mortgage within ten years
from the date of the first inscription, the effect of the inscription and not of the mortgage itself ceases. The mortgage
remains unimpaired as between the mortgagor and his heirs,
and the mortgagee.
The general doctrine as stated has been repeatedly declared
by the Supreme Court of Louisiana. Bonin v. Dur'and, 2 La.
Ann. 7.76 ; Hfaines v. Verret, 11 id. 122 ; Seyburn v. Dcyris, 25
i,1.
4S3.
VOL. XIII.

CUCULLU V. HERNANDEZ.

[Sup. ot.

The rule was applied to a witness to the mortgage in the
case of Brown v. Sadler, 16 id. 206.
From these provisions of the Code of Louisiana and the
decisions of the Supreme Court of the State it is clear that no
inscription of the Villavaso mortgages was necessary to affect
Cucullu. He being the mortgagor, they remained valid as
against him, without inscription or reinscription, and preserved
their rank over a subsequent mortgage in which he was the
mortgagee.
It is claimed, however, by complainant, that although the
doctrine may apply to the original inscription it does not apply to the reinscription of a mortgage; that unless reinscribed
within ten years from its date the mortgage becomes prescribed
and ineffectual to bind even the mortgagor.
This claim does not seem to us to be founded in reason or to
be sustained by any decisions of the Supreme Court of Louisiana. On the contrary, that court, as will be seen by the
cases above cited, makes no distinction, so far as this question
is concerned, between the original inscription and subsequent
reinscriptions.
We think, therefore, that neither the lien of the mortgages
executed by Cucullu nor their priority as against the subsequent mortgage executed to him by Walker has been lost.
The complainant claims, fourthly, that Hernandez is estopped from setting up the mortgages from Cucullu to Villavaso as superior to the mortgage from Walker to Cucullu,
because, in his intervention in the case of Villavaso, Zunts substituted, v. Walker, he had claimed that the mortgages from
Cucullu to Villavaso had lost their lien for want of reinscription, and the complainant asserts that this claim was sustained
in that case by the Supreme Court of Louisiana.
An examination of the petition of Hernandez in that case,
and the decision of the Supreme Court, shows that the question of precedence between the mortgages was raised on a different state of facts from that on which the question arises here.
Hernandez, in the suit of Villavaso v. Walker, in which Cucullu was not a party and did not in any way appear, claimed
that the mortgages from Cucullu to Villavaso had, for want of
reinscription, lost their rank as against him, he being the owneT

Oet. 1880.]

CUCULLU V. HERNANDEZ.

of the mortgage from Walker to Cucullu. The Supreme Court
of Louisiana sustained this view, and put its decision expressly
on the ground that Hernandez was a third person in the acts of
mortgage given by Cucullu to Villavaso, which had not been
reinscribed.
In the present suit Cucullu is a party, and is insisting that
the mortgages given by himself to Villavaso have lost their lien
for want of reinscription, and that the mortgage given to him
by Walker should have priority.
The question whether the Walker mortgage, in the hands
of Ilernandez as owner, is entitled to priority over the Cucullh
mortgages when held by Villavaso, because the latter had not
been reinscribed, is very different from the question whether
Cticullu, when claiming to be the owner of the Walker mortgage, can assert priority over the mortgages executed by himsif to Villavaso, because the latter had not been reinscribed.
In his intervention Hernandez claimed priority for the Walker
ntgage as against Villavaso, holder of the Cucullu mortgages, because, as to the latter, he was a third person and the
moirtgages had not been reinscribed. In this case it is Cucullu
who claims priority for the Walker mortgage, which, he says,
he owns, against his own mortgages to Villavaso, for want of
the reinscription of the latter. But as to the mortgages made
by himself, he is a party and not a third person, and as to him
no reinscription is necessary.
The position of Hernandez in his petition in the case of 7illav.'o v. Walker is not inconsistent with his claim here, and
his claim in this case has not been decided against him by the
Supreme Court of Louisiana in the case referred to. See Villavw,, v. ,awlker, 28 La. Ann. 712.
F TMhl, The complainant claims that the notes given by
Cucullu to Villavaso were novated, and that Cucullu was released by the extension of the time for their payment, granted
to Walker by Villavaso, by the act of Feb. 4, 1858.
This claim is based on article 3063 of the Civil Code, which
declares: "The prolongation of the time granted to the principal debtor, without the consent of the surety, operates a
discharge of the latter."
To make this article applicable, it must appear that by the

CUCULLU V. HERNANDEZ.

[Sup. Ct.

a-et of Feb. 4, 1858, by which Walker agreed with Cucullu to
pay the notes executed by the latter to Villavaso, Walker
became the principal debtor, and Cucullu the surety.
It cannot, we think, be reasonably claimed that a debtor is
converted into a surety by his creditor's acceptance of an additional promise from a third person to pay the debt due him by
his debtor. There is no element of suretyship in such a contract, ulless it be that the additional debtor might be regarded
as surety for the original debtor. The relation between the
creditor and the original debtor is not changed by such an
arrangement.
It is, however, a sufficient answer to this claim to say that
the bill of complaint contains no'allegation in reference to the
extension of the time of payment granted by Villavaso to
Walker, and no claim that Cucullu was discharged thereby,
and no allusion is made to the subject in any part of the pleadings. The claim that, by the contract of Walker with Cucullu
to pay his notes to Villavaso, Walker became the principal
debtor and Cucullu the surety, and that, by the indulgence
given by Villavaso to Walker, Cucullu, as such surety, was
discharged, appears in the case for the first time in the brief
of complainant's counsel.
The evidence to show the facts on which this claim is based
cannot be regarded, for there is no averment in the bill to
which it can be applied. It is not pertinent to any issue in
the case. Wdtely v. Martin, 3 Beav. 226; Smith v. Clarke,
12 Ves. Jr. 477; Langdon v. Goddard, 2 Story, 267; Gordon
v. Gordon, 3 Swans. 400.
Lastly, It is averred by complainant that the purchase made
by Hernandez from Zunts, of the notes and mortgages given by
Cucullu to Villavaso, was the purchase of a litigious right; and
even, if the notes and mortgages are valid claims, no more can
be recovered by Hernandez than he paid to Zunts, anc; this
sum complainant avers to be $2,100.
This claim is based on article 2652 of the Civil Code of
Louisiana, which declares: "He against whom a litigious right
has been transferred, may get himself released by paying to
the transferee the real price of the transfer, together with the
interest from date."

Out. 1880.]

CUCULLU 1,. IERNANDES.

The next article, 2653, defines what is a litigious right, as
follows: - A right is said to be litigious whenever there exists
a suit or a contestation on the same."
This claim cannot be sustained, for two reasons: Pirst, Hernandez did not purchase the Villavaso notes until after the
judgment in the Supreme Court thereon. The right ceases to
Le litigious when judgment has been rendered. illarsaalv. fcCrea, 2 La. Ann. 79. Secondly, it has been repeatedly decided
by the Supreme Court of Louisiana that the purpose of article
2652 was to prevent litigation, and therefore a defendant who,
instead of paying the price of the transfer, contests the suit
and prolongs the litigation, defeats the very object of the article, and cannot exercise the privilege it gives. The complainant should have paid or tendered to Hernandez the real price
,f the transfer with interest from date. He would then have
bIeen in a position to claim the benefit of article 2652. He
cannot, after contesting the claim inch by inch and up to the
court of last resort, cancel it by paying what it cost his adversary. Leftu,ieh v. B,'ow, 4 id. 104; Pearson v. Grice, 6 id.
2: 3 Rhodes v. ifopler, id. 356; Evans v. De L'Isle, 24 id.
248.
We think that the attempt of Cucullu to get rid of the notes
and mortgages given by him to Villavaso, or postpone them to
the subsequent notes and mortgage given to himself by Walker,
inust fail, and ought in equity to fail. Thirty years ago he
borrowed from Villavaso -20,000, and to secure this money
execated mortgages to him on the Myrtle Grove Plantation
wvhich he then owned. He has never paid that debt. He
afterwards sold the plantation to Walker and took his notes
for part of the purchase-money, and for the residue his stipulation to pay the Villavaso notes and mortgages. Walker has
not paid them. While enforcing the lien of the Walker mortgage and bringing the property to sale to satisfy it, equity
requires that out of the proceeds the notes of Cucullu to Villa.
va:o should be first paid, unless some reason in law exists by
v.hich they are postponed. We have been able to find no such
reason. We think the decree of the Circuit Court was right,
and that it should be affirmed; and it is
S, orterced.

