Vet. 1880.]

SPRING CO. V. KNOWLTON.

much broken in upon by their intercourse with the whites.
Patents to individual members, enabling them to hold lands in
s.everalty, were accompanied with a condition against alienatiun without the consent of the Secretary of the Interior. A
treaty of the United States with one of the tribes stipulated
that their lands should not be liable to "levy, sale, execution,
,,rforfeitnre," - terms which were held to prevent a levy and
-alc- by officers of the State for taxes, as well as a levy and sale
ander judicial proceedings. And the act admitting Kansas
into the Union as a State provided that the rights of the
Indians in the Territory should remain unimpaired, and the
general government be at liberty to make any regulation
respecting them and their lands which it would have been competent. to make had Kansas not been thus admitted. Their
tribal organizations continuing in the State, and the United
States treating with them as distinct political communities, the
legislature of Kansas could not interfere with their lands or
tle lands of individual members of the tribes, and subject
them to taxation.
Judgment affirmed.

SPRING COMPANY V. KNOWLTON
1. A party to a contract, the making of which, although prohibited by law, is
not rnabia in st, may, while it remains executory, rescind it and recover
money by him advanced thereon to the other party who had performed no
part thereof.
2. The trustees of A., a corporation which was organized under the act of New
Y,,rk of Feb. 17, 1848, for the formation of corporations for manufacturing
purposes, and acts amendatory thereof, passed a resolution increasing its
capital stock, which was $I,000,000, by the addition of $200,000, allowing
each stockholder ti, take one share of the new tock for every five shares
of the original tock which he held, and providing that on his paying in
instalments $I0 on each share of $100, a certificate as for full-paid stock
should be issued to him by the company, and on his failure to pay an
in.falment of ,20 per share on or before a specified date his claim to
the new stock should be forfeited, and such forfeited shares divided ratably
among the other stockholders who had paid that instalment. A subseription agreement binding the subscribers thereto to take stock and pay .80
per share in instalments as they should be called for by the company. and,
on failure to pay any instalment, to submit to the forfeiture of all sums
VOL. XIII.
4

50

SPRING Co. V. KNOWLTON.

[Sup. Ct.

theretofore paid, was prepared and signed by B., who, being then a tru o
of A. and its vice-president, was an active promoter of the scheme for the
increase of the stock. He paid but one instalment of twenty per cent on
his new stock, and the latter was, by a resolution of the company, declared
to be forfeited. The capital stock of the company was afterwards reduced
to its original amount, and, to refund the payments made on the new stock
withdrawn, bonds were issued. None of them were tendered to or demanded
by B. On A.'s refusing to pay him the amount of that instalment, he
brought suit therefor. Held, that he was entitled to recover.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of New York.
This suit was brought in 1869 by Dexter A. Knowlton, a
citizen of Illinois, against The Congress and Empire Spring
Company, in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, to
recover the sum of $13,980, with interest from Feb. 20, 1866.
In 1876 he died, and the suit was revived and continued by the
administrators of his estate. They are citizens of Illinois, and
on their application the suit was, March 20, 1877, removed to
the Circuit Court of the United States. The parties, by written stipulation, waived a jury. The court tried the case, and
found the facts to be substantially as follows: The Congress and Empire Spring Company is a corporation organized under the statute of the State of New York of
Feb. 17, 1848, authorizing the formation of corporations for
manufacturing, mining, mechanical, or chemical purposes, and
subsequent acts amendatory thereof. Its capital stock was
$1,000,000, divided into ten thousand shares of 0100 each,
issued in payment of property purchased by the trustees of the
corporation for its use.
The mode by which such a corporation might increase its
capital stock is prescribed by sects. 21 and 22 of chapter 40 of
the laws of 1848.
Sect. 21 prescribes how the notice of a meeting of the stockholders to consider the proposition to increase the capital stock
shall be given, and what vote of the stockholders shall be necessary to carry the proposition.
Sect. 22 prescribes how the meeting of the stockholders,
called under sect. 21, shall be organized, and declares that if a
sufficient number of votes has been given in favor of increasing
the amount of capital stock, "a certificate of the proceedings,

0Ot. 1880.]

SPRING CO. V. KNOWLTON.

showing a compliance with the provisions of this act, the
amount of capital actually paid in,. . . the whole amount of
debts and liabilities of the company, and the amount to which
the capital shall be increased, . . . shall be made out, signed,
a1nd verified by the affidavit of the chairman and countersigned
by the secretary, and such certificate shall be acknowledged by
the chairman and filed, as required by the first section of this
act; and when so filed the capital stock of such corporation
shall be increased . . .to the amount specified in such ceri ificate, . . . and the company shall be entitled to the priv
ilhges and provisions, and subject to the liabilities, of this act,
as the case may be."
The corporation passed a resolution, Jan. 11, 1866, to increase its capital stock by the addition thereto of $200,000, for
the purpose of building a glass factory for the manufacture of
bottles and providing a working capital. It also resolved that
the books of the company should be opened for subscriptions
to the additional stock, and that each stockholder should be
aillwed to take one share of the new for every five shares he
held of the original stock, and that when he had paid $80 on
each share the company should issue to him a certificate as for
full-paid stock.
At a meeting of the board of trustees of the corporation,
held Feb. 8, 1866, a dividend of four per cent on the original
stock was declared, payable Feb. 20, and it was resolved that
a call of twenty per cent on the new stock should be made,payable on the latter date; that the books of the company
should be at once opened for subscriptions to the new stock;
that each stockholder should have the privilege of taking
one share of the new for every five shares of the old stock
held by him, and that on failure of any stockholder to pay, on
or before that date, ,,20 on each share of the new stock taken
by him, all his claim to such new stock should be forfeited and
the same divided ratably among the stockholders who had paid
(he instalment of -20 per share.
In pursuance of the resolutions the trustees immediately
issued a stock subscription agreement, by which the subscribers
stipulated to take the number of shares set opposite their
names al to pay for each share $80, in instalments, as called

SPRING CO. v. KNOWLTON.

[Sup. Ct

for by the directors; and upon failure to pay the instalments
within sixty days after call, that the money already paid on
the stock should be forfeited to the company. By the same
agreement the company bound itself to pay interest up to Feb.
1, 1867, on all sums paid on the new stock, and on Feb. 8,
1867, to issue for every share of said new stock on which $80
had been paid a certificate to the holder as for full-paid stock;
and it was provided that the holders of such stock should be
entitled to vote thereon, and the same should draw dividends
and be treated in all respects as full-paid stock.
This agreement was signed by one C. Sheehan, who subscribed for six hundred and ninety shares of the new stock, he
being the holder of thirty-four hundred and ninety shares of
the old stock.
Thereupon a contract was made between Sheehan and
Knowlton, whereby the former agreed to lend the dividend on
his old stock to the latter, who agreed to assume the new stock
subscribed for by Sheehan, and pay all future calls thereon.
Sheehan's dividend on his old stock amounted to .$13,988.
Knowlton, in consideration of the transfer to him of this dividend, delivered his note to Sheehan for 513,980, dated Feb.
20, 1866, payable in one year, and secured the same by a
pledge of one hundred and fifty shares of the stock of the company. He paid the residue, to wit, $8, in cash.
Knowlton paid to the company, March 8, 1866, the call of
twenty per cent on the new stock, subscribed by and sold to
Sheehan as aforesaid, by the application thereto of Sheehan's
dividend on the old stock, amounting to $13,980, for which the
company gave Knowlton a receipt.
About December, 1868, Knowlton paid in full his note to
Sheehan for $13,980.
Calls and personal demands were made both upon Sheehan
and Knowlton more than sixty days before Jan. 25, 1867, for
the payment of subsequent instalments on the stock subscribed by Sheehan, and both of them neglected and refused to
pay the instalments called for; whereupon the trustees of the
company passed a resolution by which they declared that the
new stock subscribed by Sheehan and assumed by Knowlton
should be and was forfeited.

01ct. 1880.]

SPRING CO. V. KNOWLTON.

From August, 1865, to August, 1866, Knowlton was a trustee and vice-president of the company; he advised the increase
of the capital stock above mentioned, proposed the resolutions in relation thereto, moved their adoption, drew up and
signed the stock subscription agreement, and advised others
to sign it.
At a meeting of the stockholders of the company, held Aug.
7, 1867, it was resolved that the capital stock of the company
should be reduced to the original sum of $1,000,000, and that
the trustees be authorized to arrange with the holders of the
new stock for retiring the same on such terms and conditions
as they should deem for the interest of the company.
On the same day the board of trustees met and passed a
resolution, whereby the executive committee of the board was
authorized to adjust, on the best terms for the company, the
claims of all persons holding receipts for payments on the new
stock ordered to be retired.
The executive committee passed a resolution, March 27,
1868, that the company issue five-year coupon bonds sufficient
tu refund the payments made on the new stock of the company
which had been retired.
No tender of these bonds was ever made to Knowlton, nor
was any demand made for them by him; but he demanded
repayment of the amount paid by him on his new stock, and
the company refused to repay it or any part of it.
The majority of the holders of the original stock became
subscribers for the new stock, and all of them except Sheehan,
Knowlton, and one or two subscribers for small amounts, paid
the calls made on them in respect to the new stock. The
first call of twenty per cent on the new stock was paid mainly
by the dividend on the old stock above mentioned, but about
$3,000 were paid in cash. All the stockholders who did not
subscribe for new stock were paid their part of the dividend
in cash. About $86,500 of said five per cent bonds were issued
by the company to retire the new stock.
As a conclusion of law from these facts, the court held that
the plaintiffs, as such administrators, were entitled to judg.
ment against the Congress and Empire Spring Company for
the sum of $13,980, with interest from Feb. 20, 1866, and

SPRING Co. v. KNOWLTON.

[Sup. Gt.

rendered judgment accordingly. The company sued out this
writ of error.
It appears by a bill of exceptions that the defendant's counsel requested the court below to decide that the proceedings
of the defendant in increasing its capital stock, and forfeiting
the amount paid by the plaintiffs' intestate, were in all respects
legal and valid. The court refused so to find, and ruled that
the plan devised by him and the other trustees of the company
was contrary to the provisions of the statute, against public
policy, and a fraud upon stockholders not consenting thereto,
and the public.
It further appears that the defendant's counsel requested the
court to decide that, inasmuch as the intestate devised, counselled, and assisted in passing and adopting all the acts and
resolutions for an increase of stock by the company, the plaintiffs were not entitled to recover. The court refused so to
decide, and ruled that the intestate had a right to abandon
the illegal transaction to which he was a party, and that by
declining to pay further calls, and demanding repayment of
the payments made before the consummation of the illegal
scheme, he did abandon it, and his representatives were entitled to recover. To these refusals and rulings the defendant's
counsel excepted.
The errors assigned here are that the court below erred in
each of its refusals and rulings, and in deciding that the plain
tiffs were entitled to recover.
M]r. Francis Kernan and Mr. Charles S. Lester for the plaintiff in error.
1. The scheme and contract to increase the stock were in
violation of the statute under which the company was organized, and against public policy. Knowlton v. Congress &
Lmpire Spring Co., 57 N. Y. 518. That statute expressly
requires that all stock shall be paid for at its par value in
money, or in such property as is necessary to enable the company to carry on its business. 2 Rev. Stat. N. Y. 507, sect.
49 ; id. 505, sect. 40; id. 504, sect. 38; id. 505, sect. 41. By
this scheme it was stipulated and agreed that scrip for stock
should be issued of the nominal or par value of $100 per share
' n payment of only $80 per share. The first instalment of

Oct. 1880.]

SPRING CO.

v. KNOWLTON.

$20 of the $80 was intended to be and was paid by applying thereto a dividend of four per cent declared on the old
stock. The corporation would thus actually receive only $60
in money per share for the new stock from the subscribers
thereof.
2. Knowlton was particeps eriminis and in pari delicto as to
the scheme and contract, by which the rights of non-assenting
stockholders, creditors, and the public were to be sacrificed.
The company could and did become a party thereto only by
the action of its trustees and officers. He was a trustee and
its vice-president when he originated, actively promoted, and
participated in carrying out this scheme. An officer of a corporation who by his advice, votes, and action involves it in
such schemes, and who as an individual becomes a party
thereto, is at least in pari delicto with it. In fact and in law
lie is the criminal. 17tomas v. City of Richmond, 12 Wall.
349, 056.
3. The plaintiffs were not entitled to recover.
a. Where the scheme or contract is gmalum in se, as in this case,
and the parties to it are in pari delicto, the law refuses to aid
,ither against the other. It leaves them where it finds them.
This rule applies as fully where money has been paid and
applied in part execution or performance, as where the scheme
or contract has been completely executed. Smith, Contracts
(3id Am. ed.), 187-191. Burt v. Place, 6 Cow. (N. Y.) 431;
Nll.s v. ClarAe, 20 Wend. (N. Y.) 24; s. c. 4 Hill (N. Y.),
424; 8n;,dth v. Hubbs, 10 Me. 71 ; Schermerhorn v. Talman, 14
N. Y. 94, 141; Knowlton v. Congress & Empire Spring Go.,
.57 N. Y. 518; Howson v. Rancock, 8 T. R. 575.
The scheme was, however, actually carried into effect as to
the money which the plaintiffs seek to recover. Their intestate had no locus penitentice as to the dividend of four per cent
on the old stock, payable February 20, and amounting exactly
to $13,980, the percentage on the new stock, payable at the
same time and place. The dividend was then applied to the
payment and satisfaction of that percentage which Knowlton
was to pay on the new stock.
b. Had Knowlton paid or advanced moneys to the company,
his right of recovery, if it could be enforced at all, would be

SPRING

Co.

v. KNOWLTON.

[Sup. Ct.

solely by virtue of his original title to them. But as he did
not advance them, there is no promise or obligation, expressed
or implied, on the part of the company to pay him.
4. The record presents no Federal question. This suit, after
the court of last resort in New York had reversed the judgment
in favor of Knowlton, and ordered a new trial, was, on his
death, revived and continued in the court of original jurisdiction, in the name of his administrators. It was subsequently
removed therefrom to the Circuit Court, upon the ground of
the citizenship of the parties. The questions involved relate
to the statutes under which the company was organized, and
to the public policy and law of New York. The Commission of Appeals of that State adjudged and determined, after
full argument and consideration, that Knowlton was not entitled to recover. As the decision was made in this suit
between the same parties and on the facts now presented, it
would be held on a retrial in the courts of New York to be
res judicata.
It is submitted that this court, in accordance with its established rule, should follow that decision. Jefferson Branch Bank
v. Skelly, 1 Black, 436; Blmendorf v. Taylor, 10 Wheat. 152;
Township of Elmwood v. Marcy, 92 U. S. 289; Fairfield v.
(ounty of Gallatin,100 id. 47; Scipio v. Wright, 101 id. 665.
M~r. H. IV. Buggles, contra.
MR. JUSTICE WOODS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error claims that the plan adopted by it to
increase its capital stock, by which certificates as for full-paid
stock were to be issued on the payment of eighty per cent
thereof, was against the law and public policy of the State of
New York, and was, therefore, void; that Knowlton, having
been an active party in devising this scheme, and having paid
his money in part execution of it, his legal representatives can
not recover the sum so paid.
It is conceded by the defendants in error that the plan
adopted by the company to increase its stock was in violation
of the law of New York, and therefore void. It has been so
held, in effect, by the Court of Appeals of the State of New

Oct. 1S80.]

SPRING CO. V. KNOWLTON.

York, in the case of Knwwlton v. Congress & Empire Spring
c., 57 N. Y. 518.
We are, then, to consider whether, upon the hypothesis that
the plan for the increase of the stock was illegal, there can be
a recovery upon the facts of the case as found by the Circuit
Court.
We think it clear that there was only a part performance of
1he illegal contract between the company and Knowlton in
reference to the new stock, for which Sheehan subscribed and
which he agreed to transfer to Knowlton.
,,The company, in fact, created no new stock. It only proposed to do so. To increase the stock of the company it was
not only necessary that the meeting of the stockholders should
be called, as prescribed by the law, and a vote of two-thirds of
all the shares of stock should be cast at the meeting in favor
of the increase, but that there should be a certificate of the
proceedings, showing, among other things, a compliance with
the provisions of the law, and the amount of the increase of the
,stock, signed and verified by the affidavit of the chairman of
the meeting at which the increase was voted, and countersigned
by the secretary, and such certificate should be acknowledged
by the chairman and filed, as required by the first section of
the act. And the law declared that " when so filed the capital
stock of such corporation shall be increased to the amount
specified in such certificate."
It does not appear from the findings of the Circuit Court
that any such certificate was ever made or filed. Consequently
it does not appear that the steps necessary, under the law, to
an increase of the stock were ever taken. Neither does it
appcar that any scrip or certificates were ever issued to the
subscribers to the new stock. So that all that was done
amounted only to a proposition by the company, on the one
hand, to increase its stock, and an agreement by Knowlton to
take certain shares of the new stock when issued, and the payment by him of an instalment of twenty per cent thereon.
There was no performance of the contract whatever by the
company, and only a part performance by Knowlton.
It is to be observed that the making of the illegal contract
was ,aala,aPi"rdbitulm and not maluit in se. There is no moral

SPRING CO. v. KNOWLTON.

[Sup. Ct.

turpitude in such a contract, nor is it of itself fraudulent, however much it may afford facilities for fraud.
The question presented is, therefore, whether, conceding the
contract to be illegal, money paid by one of the parties to
it in part performance can be recovered, the other party not
having performed the contract or any part of it, and both parties having abandoned the illegal agreement before it was consummated.
We think the authorities sustain the affirmative of this
proposition.
Their result is fairly stated in 2 Comyn on Contracts, 361,
as follows:

-

"Where money has been paid upon an illegal contract, it is a
general rule that if the contract be executed and both parties
are in pari delicto, neither of them can recover from the other
the money so paid, but if the contract continues executory and the
party paying the money be desirous of rescinding it, he may do so
and recover back by action of indebitatusassumpsit for money had
and received. And this distinction is taken in the books that
where the action is in affirmance of an illegal contract, the object
of which is to enforce the performance of an engagement prohibited
by law, clearly such an action can in no case be maintained, but
where the action proceeds in disaffirmance of such a contract, and
instead of endeavoring to enforce it presumes it to be void and seeks
to prevent the defendant from retaining the benefit which he de.
rived from an unlawful act, then it is consonant to the spirit and
policy of the law that the plaintiff should recover."
Mr. Parsons, in his work on Contracts, vol. ii.p. 746
says:

-

"c
All contracts which provide that anything shall be done whicl.
is distinctly prohibited by law, or morality, or public policy, are
void, so he who advances money in consideration of a promise or
undertaking to do such a thing, may at any time before it is done
rescind the contract and prevent the thing from being done and
recover back his money.'
To the same effect see 2 Addison, Contracts, sect. 1412;
0hitty, Contracts, 944 ; 2 Story, Contracts, sect. 617 ; 2 Greenl.
FEvid., sect. 111.

Oct. 1880.]

OPRING CO. v. KNOWLTON.

The views of the text-writers are sustained by a vast array
of authorities, both English and American.
A few will be cited. Taylor v. Bowers (1 Q. B. D. 291)
was an action to recover property assigned for the purpose of
defrauding creditors. A verdict was rendered for the plaintiff,
with leave to move to enter a verdict for the defendant. A
rule was obtained on the ground that the plaintiff could not by
the allegation of his own fraud get back the goods from the defendant. The Queen's Bench sustained the verdict, the Chief
Justice, Cockburn, delivering the opinion. The defendant
then appealed to the Court of Appeals, where the judgment
was affirmed. Both courts agreed that an illegal contract partially performed might be repudiated and the money paid upon
it recovered.
Lord Justice Mellish, in the Court of Appeals, said: "If the
illegal transaction had been carried out, the plaintiff himself,
in my judgment, could not afterwards have recovered the
goods. But the illegal transaction was not carried out; it
came wholly to an end. To bold that the plaintiff is entitled
to recover does not carry out the illegal transaction, but the
effect is to put everybody in the same situation' as they were
before the illegal transaction was determined upon, and before
the parties took any steps to carry it out. That, I apprehend,.
is the true distinction in point of law. If money is paid or
goods delivered for an illegal purpose, the person who had so
paid the money or delivered the goods may recover them back
before the illegal purpose is carried out; but if he waits till the
illegal purpose is carried out, or if he seeks to enforce the illegal transaction, in neither can he maintain an action; the law
will not allow that to be done."
The same rule substantially is laid down in the follow
ing English cases: Lowry v. Bourdieu, 2 Doug. 452; Tappendea v. Baidall, 2 Bos. & Pul. 467; ffastelow v. Jackson,
8 Barn. & Cress. 221; Bone v. Ekless, 5 H. & N. 925;
Lacaussade v. Wite, 7 T. R. 531; Cotton v. Thurland, 5 id.
405; 2tount v. Stokes, 4 id. 561 ; Smith v. Biekmore, 4 Taunt.
474.
In Morgan v. Groff (4 Barb. (N. Y.) 524), it was held that
money paid on an illegal contract, which remains executory,

SPRING

Co. v.

KNOWLTON.

LSu1p.

Ct.

can be recovered back in an action founded on a disaffirmance,
and on the ground that it is void.
To the samne effect are the following cases: Utica Insurance
Co. v. Kip, 8 Cow. (N. Y.) "20; Merritt v. Millard, 4 Keyes
(N. Y.), 208; White v. Franklin Bank, 22 Pick. (Mass.) 181;
Lowell v. Boston d- Lowell Railroad Corporation, 23 id. 24.
In Thomas v. City of Richmond (12 Wall. 349) this court
cites with approval the note of Mr. Frere to the case of Smith
v. Bromley (2 Doug. 696), to the effect that a recovery can be
had as for money had and received when the illegality consists
in the contract itself, and that contract is not executed; in
such case there is a locus penitentice ; the delictum is incomplete; the contract may be rescinded by either party.
The rule is applied in the great majority of the cases, even
when the parties to the illegal contract are in pari delicto,
the question which of the two parties is the more blamable
being often difficult of solution and quite immaterial. We
think, therefore, that the facts of this case present no obstacle to a recovery by Knowlton's administrators of the sum
paid by him on the stock which had been subscribed for by
Sheehan.
The law of New York does not in express terms forbid a
corporation from issuing certificates for full-paid stock whep
the stock has not been fully paid. The illegality of such an
issue is deduced from several sections of the law under which
the Congress and Empire Spring Company was organized,
namely, sects. 38, 40, 41, and 49. We think it is fairly inferable from the record that the trustees of the company, one of
whom was Knowlton, did not know that the plan adopted by
them for the increase of the stock was illegal, and that when
they discovered that it was forbidden by the law, and before
any harm was done or could have been done, the scheme was
abandoned. Under such circumstances, the rule which woul'l
prevent the recovery of the money paid to carry on the illegal
plan would be a very harsh one, not founded on any law or.
public policy.
It is suggested by counsel for the plaintiff in error that the
Court of Appeals of the State of New York has in this identical suit, upon the same state of facts, adjudicated the rights of

Get. 1880.]

SPRING CO. V. KNOWLTON.

the parties, and that this court ought to consider the questions
raised iii this case as resjudieata.
The reply to this suggestion is that it nowhere appears
in the record that this case was ever before the Court of Appeals, or that it was ever decided by any court except the
United States Circuit Court for the Northern District of
New York, from which it has been brought to this court on
error. We cannot consider facts not brought to our notice
by the record.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN dissenting.

This action was commenced in the Supreme Court of the
State of New York. The present transcript is imperfect in
that it does not contain all the proceedings in the courts of
the State up to the removal of the case into the Circuit Court
of the United States. It is, however, conceded, in the briefs
of counsel, that Knowlton recovered in the Supreme Court a
judgment which, upon a writ of error from the Commission of
Appeals, was reversed upon the grounds stated in Knowlto&
v. Congress J. Empire Spring Co., 57 N. Y. 518. The learned
district judge who tried the case commences his opinion, which
is incorporated in the transcript, with the statement that "this
case comes here by removal from the State court, after a decision adverse to the plaintiff by the Commission of Appeals,
reversing the judgment of the Supreme Court in favor of
plaintiff, and ordering a new trial. 57 N. Y. 518." He then
proceeds to determine it upon principles of law different from
those announced in that decision. Had it been again tried in
the Supreme Court, judgment must have been rendered against
these defendants in error, because the reversal was upon such
grounds as precluded any recovery whatever by them. That
decision should, in my opinion, have been accepted as the
law of this case, although the proceedings in the Commission
of Appeals are not set forth in the transcript. The reported
case shows, beyond question, that it is the identical case now
before us; at any rate, that it was between these parties and
involved the same issues. We know that the adjudication
of that court was long prior to the removal of this case, and

MITCHELL V. OVERMAN.

[Sup. CL.

that the questions arising upon this record have been once
determined by a court of competent jurisdiction in a suit
between the same parties touching the subject-matter now
in controversy. All this plainly appears by that decision,
the legal effect of which, the defendants in error should not
be permitted to escape by removing the case into the Circuit
Court.
Upon these grounds, and without expressing my own views
upon the propositions of law discussed in the opinion of the
court, I dissent from the judgment just'rendered.

MITCHELL V.

OVERMAN.

Where the complainant dies after the term at which the cause on its submission
for final hearing upon the pleadings and proofs was continued by an order of
curia advisare vult, the decree in his favor entered as of that term cannot be
impeached by the defendants upon the ground that it was rendered subsequently to his death.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Ohio.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Rufus King and Mr. Lawrence Maxwell, Jr., for the
plaintiff in error.
Mr. Stanley Matthews and Mr. William H1. Ramsey,/ for the
defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
Conrad Stutzman brought suit, July 26, 1866, against Robert Mitchell and others, in the District Court for the county
of Webster, a court of general jurisdiction, in the State of
Iowa. Two of the defendants, although duly served with process, failed to appear, and a decree pro confesso against them
was rendered by the court, at its October Term, 1868. As to
all the other parties, the plaintiff and the defendants being
I'resviit in person, or by counsel, "the cause" (as appears by

