NATIONAL BANK V. KIMBALL.

NATIONAL

[Sup.

Ct

BANS v. Kn BAT-.

L As a general rule, the owner of taxable property, who seeks to enjoin the
collection of a tax thereon, which he alleges to be in excess of what is lawful, must first pay or tender so much thereof as is justly due.
9. A bill to restrain the collection of a State tax upon the shares of a national
bank is bad on demurrer, where it does not appear that there is any statutory discrimination against them, or that they, under any rule established
by the assessing officers, are rated higher in proportion to their actual value
than other moneyed capital.
8. The bill in this case avers that the same percentage is assessed on such shares
as on other property, and that they are rated at about one-half their actual
value. No case for relief is made by averring that the assessments are
unequal and partial, and some other property is rated for taxable purposea
at less than one-half of its cash value.
APPEAL

from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Northern District of, Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. D. K. Tenney and Mr. J. X. Plower for the appellant.
Mr. Consider H. Willett, contra.
Mn. JUSTICE MTLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in chancery, filed by The German National
Bank of Chicago, to enjoin Kimball, collector of the town of
South Chicago, from enforcing payment of the taxes assessed
against the holders of shares of its stock.
The general grounds on which this relief is sought are twofold, namely: that the assessment violates the provision of the
act of Congress concerning national banks, which forbids the
States from taxing these shares at any higher rate than other
moneyed capital within the State; and that it also violates the
provision of the Constitution of Illinois concerning uniformity
of taxation. From the decree dismissing the bill on demurrer,
this appeal has been taken.
The bill is made up of averments which are intended to show
that the valuation of the property of other persons in the same
town, made by the same assessor, is less in proportion to its
actual cash value than that of the complainant's shares; that
the same is true in other parts of the State; that some corporations are favored in this valuation, and that certain classes of

Oct. 1880.]

NATIONAL BANK v. KIMBALL.

property are favored in a general way. But there is no distinct averment that the shares of this bank are valued higher
for the purpose of taxation than other moneyed capital ger.
erally, though this is alleged in regard to particular instances.
The allegations are pretty full that the assessments are partial,
unequal, and unjust, and do not result in the uniformity of
taxation which the Constitution of Illinois requires.
But we think there are two fatal objections to the bill.
The first of these is that there is no offer to pay any sum as
the tax which the shares of the bank ought to pay.
We have announced more than once that it is the established
rule of this court that no one can be permitted to go into a
court of equity to enjoin the collection of a tax until he has
shown himself entitled to the aid of the court by paying so
much of the tax assessed against him as it can be plainly seen
he ought to pay; that he shall not be permitted, because his
tax is in excess of what is just and lawful, to screen himself
from paying any tax at all until the precise amount which he
ought to pay is ascertained by a court of equity; and that the
owner of property liable to taxation is bound to contribute his
lawful share to the current expenses of government, and cannot
throw that share on others while he engages in an expensive
and protracted litigation to ascertain that the amount which he
is assessed is or is not a few dollars more than it ought to be.
But that before he asks this exact and scrupulous justice he
must first do equity by paying so much as it is clear he ought
to pay, and contest and delay only the remainder. State Railroad Tax Cases, 92 U. S. 575.
The bill attempts to evade this rule by alleging that the tax
is wholly void, and, therefore, none of it ought to be paid, and
that by reason of the absence of all uniformity of values, it is
impossible for any person to compute or ascertain what the
stockholders of the complainant bank ought to pay on the
shares of the bank. In the case just cited this court said, in
answer to the first objection: "It is clear that the road.bed
within each county is liable to be taxed at the same rate that
other property is taxed. Why have not complainants paid
this tax ? It is said they resist the rule by which the value of
their road-bed in each county is ascertained. But surely they

NATIONAL BANK V. KIMBALL.

[Sup. Ot.

should pay tax by some rule. . . . Should they pay nothing,
and escape wholly, because they have been assessed too high?
These questions answer themselves. Before complainants seek
the aid of the court to be relieved of the excessive tax, they
should pay what is due. Before they ask equitable relief, they
should do that justice which is necessary to enable the court to
hear them." Id. 616.
In the same case the court said: "It has been repeatedly
decided that neither the mere illegality of the tax complained
of, nor its injustice, nor irregularity, of themselves give the
right to an injunction in a court of equity." The authorities
there cited support the proposition. The whole extent of the
injustice complained of in this bill is the inequality of the
actual assessment, and for this it is argued the whole tax of
the township is void; and as the bill seeks to bring into view
the inequality as regards other counties in the State, it follows
that, if it be sustained, the entire tax of the State for that year
must be declared void, in order that the complainant may be
relieved of a few thousand dollars and entirely escape taxation
for that year.
In the same case this court said: "Perfect equality and perfect uniformity of taxation, as regards individuals and corporations, or the different classes of property subject to taxation, is
a dream unrealized. It may be admitted that the system which
most nearly attains this is the best. But the most complete
system which can be devised must, when we consider the immense variety of subjects which it necessarily embraces, be
imperfect. And when we come to its application to the property of all the citizens, and of those who are not citizens in all
the localities of a large State like Illinois, the application being
made by men whose judgments and opinions must vary as they
are affected by all the circumstances brought to bear upon each
individual, the result must inevitably partake largely of the
imperfection of human nature, and of the evidence on which
human judgment is founded." p. 612.
These principles are sufficient to decide the case, and were
declared by this court in a case arising in the same State and
under the same Constitution and revenue laws with the one
now before us.

Oct. 1880.]

NATIONAL BANK V. KIMBALL.

An apparent exception to the universality of the rule is admitted in People v. Weaver, 100 U. S. 539, Pelton v. National
Bank, 101 id. 143, and Cummings v. National Bank, id. 153.
It is held in these cases that when the inequality of valuation
is the result of a statute of the State designed to discriminate
injuriously against any class of persons or any species of property, a court of equity will give appropriate relief; and also
where, though the law itself is unobjectionable, the officers who
are appointed to make assessments combine together and establish a rule or principle of valuation, the necessary result of
which is to tax one species of property higher than others, and
higher than the average rate, the court will also give relief.
But the bill before us alleges no such agreement or common
action of assessors, and no general rule or discriminating rate
adopted by a single assessor, but relies on the numerous instances of partial and unequal valuations which establish no
rule on the subject.
So far as anything of the kind is to be inferred, it is that
shares of national bank stock, including the complainant's, were
assessed at only thirty-four per cent of their value, which, by
the board of equalization, was raised to fifty-three per cent,
and other property more, and still other less.
The case, then, made by the complainant is this: that the
shares of the bank are taxed at the same per cent on their
assessed value as all other property; that the valuation of these
shares, on which this rate is apportioned, is only about half
their actual value; that some other property is valued at less
than half of its cash value, and for this reason no tax should
be paid on the shares of stock of the complainant.
And if any should be paid at all, the sum which may in the
end be found justly due, and which, during the four or five
years of this litigation, must be paid for the support of the
government by some one else, shall remain in the complainant's
vaults until it is ascertained precisely to the last dollar what
each share should pay.
We think the Circuit Court did not err in dismissing such a
Decree afflrmecL

