THompsoiN v. PEtIINE.

[Sup. Ct.

Of course the whole case here would be changed if the sale
by Laflin had not been made in good faith, but was made
merely to evade his just responsibility as a stockholder, or to
work a fraud upon other stockholders or creditors of the bank
-Decreeaffirmed.

THomPSON v. PERnR-iE.
1. A town in New York was authorized, upon certain conditions, to subscribs
for railway stock, and sell its bonds at not less than their par value to
raise funds wherewith to pay therefor. The subscription was made; but
the commissioners issued to the company, in exchange for its stock, bonds
in which that fact is recited. Such an exchange was not authorized by
the statute, and, under the decisions of the courts of that State, a holder
of the bonds, who had notice that they had been so exchanged, could not
enforce the payment of them. After the passage of the act of April 28,
1871 (in
fia, p. 809), A. purchased them for value, and brought suit upon
certain coupons detached therefrom. Held, that the legislature had the
constitutional power to pass the act, and that the bonds were thereby
validated.
2. The court declines to follow Horton v. Town of Thompson (71 N. Y. 513), in
which the same point is involved.
3. County of Warren v. Marcy (97 U. S. 96) affirmed.

ERROI to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
This action was commenced on the first day of May, 1876,
by Perrine, against the town of Thompson, a municipal corporation in Sullivan County, New York, for the amount of coupons attached to certain bonds, signed by G. Ml. Benedict,
N. S. Hamilton, and W. H. Cady, county commissioners, and
issued by them in the name of the town under date of May 1,
1869. They were purchased by him of Gulick & Van Kleeck,
July 20, 1875, he paying cash therefor. Each bond is payable
to bearer on the 1st of March, 1899. It recites that it "is a
valid security, being issued by virtue of an act entitled 'An
Act to authorize certain towns in the counties of Sullivan and
Orange to issue bonds and take stock in any company now
organized, or that may hereafter be organized within three
years after the passage of this act, for the purpose of building

Oct. 1880.]

THOmPSON V. PERRINE.

a railroad from the village of Monticello in the county of Sullivan through the towns of Thompson and Forestburgh in said
county, and the town of Deerpark in the county of Orange, to
Port Jervis, Orange County,' passed May 4, 1868, and of the
act amendatory thereof, passed April 1, 1869." And that the
promise to pay that sum is "by virtue and in pursuance of
the acts above entitled and referred to, and for value received
in the stock of the Monticello and Port Jervis Railway Company."
Those acts authorized the commissioners who might be appointed, in the mode therein prescribed, on behalf of any town
along the route of the proposed road from Monticello to Port
Jervis, to borrow, on its credit, such sums of money, not exceeding thirty-three per cent of the valuation of the town, to
be ascertained by its assessment rolls for 1867, for a term not
exceeding thirty years, at not exceeding seven per cent interest
per annum, and "to execute bonds therefor under their hands
and seals," - such debt not, however, to be contracted, and
such bonds not to be issued, until there was obtained the written consent of the majority of the taxpayers, appearing upon
the last assessment roll, as shall represent a majority of the
taxable property, not including lands owned by non-residents;
nor until a certain amount of the capital stock of the company
bad been subscribed in good faith, and paid, by individuals or
corporations. The statute required the fact that the persons
so consenting represented the proper number of taxpayers,
should be supported by the affidavit of one of the town assessors
or the town clerk, - the consent and the affidavit to be filed in
the offices of the county and town clerks respectively, a certified copy whereof "shall be evidence of the facts therein contained and certified in any court of this [that] State, and before
any judge or justice thereof."
The third section of the original act provided that the commissioners thereby authorized "may, in their discretion, dispose
of such bonds, or any part thereof, to such persons or corporations, and upon such terms, as they shall deem most advantageous for their said town, but not for less than par; and the
money that shall be received by any loan or sale of such bonds
shall be invested in the stock of such company, now organized,

THOIMPSON V. PERRINE.

[Sup. Ct.

or that may hereafter be organized, within two years after the
passage of this act, for the purpose of building or aiding in the
building of a railroad," from Monticello to Port Jervis.
The entire issue of bonds under the acts referred to was
$148,000, of which $15,000 were delivered to the company on
the 4th of May, 1869, and $188,000 on the 12th of May, 1869.
Prior to the delivery of the bonds to the railroad company it
had made a construction contract with Crowley and Colts, by
which the latter were to be paid partly in bonds of towns along
the line of the road. In September, 1869, Gulick & Van
Kleeck purchased, for cash, eight of the bonds from the National Bank of Port Jervis, at ninety cents on the dollar. In
November of the same year, the Atlantic Savings Bank of the
City of New York (subsequently known as the Bond Street
Savings Bank) purchased $50,000 of the bonds, at eighty-two
and one-half cents on the dollar and accrued interest, for cash;
and from that institution Gulick & Van Kleeck purchased
eighteen of the bonds, Feb. 19, 1875, at seventy-five cents on
the dollar. The town, by means of taxation in conformity with
the provisions of the original and amendatory acts, met the
instalments of interest due March 1, 1870, and Sept. 1, 1870.
The road was completed in January, 1871, and has been in
operation ever since.
Such was the condition of the enterprise, and such were the
relations which the town held to the holders of its bonds, when,
on the 28th of April, 1871, the legislature of New York passed
an act entitled "An Act to legalize and confirm the acts of the
-commissioners of the towns of Thompson and Forestburgh, in
the county of Sullivan, and of Deerpark, in the county of
Orange, in issuing and disposing of the bonds of their respective towns, to build a railroad from the village of Monticello,
in the county of Sullivan, to the village of Port Jervis, in the
county of Orange, under chapter five hundred and fifty-three
of the laws of eighteen hundred and sixty-eight, and to legalize
and confirm all bonds heretofore issued by such commissioners
under said chapter of laws, now held by or owned by bona fide
purchasers."
As the facts were undisputed, the court directe& a verdict
for Perrine, and the town sued out this writ.

Oct. 1880.]

THOMPSON V. PERRINE.

Since the present case largely depends upon the construction
and effect of the act of April 28, 1871, it is here given in
full:"SECT. 1. The acts of Nathan S. Hamilton, Giles M. Benedict,
and William H. Cady, commissioners on the part of the town of
Thompson, and Silas T. L. Norris, Edwin Hartwell, and James
Ketcham, commissioners of the town of Forestburgh, in the county
of Sullivan, and of Orville J. Brown, Samuel 0. Dimmick, and
Augustus B. Goodale, commissioners of the town of Deerpark, in
the county of Orange, appointed in pursuance of an act entitled
'An Act to authorize certain towns in the counties of Sullivan and
Orange to issue bonds and take stock in any company now organized or that may hereafter be organized, within three years after
the passage of this act, for the purpose of building a railroad from
the village of Monticello, in the county of Sullivan, through the
towns of Thompson and Forestburgh, in said county of Sullivan,
and the town of Deerpark, in the county of Orange, to Port Jervis,'
passed May fourth, eighteen hundred and sixty-eight, in issuing
bonds upon the faith and credit of their respective towns, and in
exchanging them for the stock of the company, organized for the
purpose of constructing the railroad, contemplated by said act, are
hereby ratified and confirmed.
"SECT. 2. No bond or bonds issued or purporting to have been
issued under the said act, and now held, owned, or possessed by
any person or persons, guardian, trustee, or corporation, in good
faith or for a valuable consideration, shall be void or voidable by
reason of any defect or omission in the consents in writing, of the
taxpayers of the said towns of Thompson, Forestburgh, and Deerpark, upon which such bonds were or purport to have been issued
in or by reason of said consents, not stating the name of the railroad company in which the taxpayers so signing such consents
desired the bonds or the money arising from the sale thereof to be
invested. But that the said bonds shall be as valid and effectual
for every purpose, as if such defect or omission had not occurred:
Provided,that such or any exchange of bonds by said commissioners for the stock of said company was made at the par value of the
said bonds: Ajzd provided, further, that the respective issues of
the said bonds by their commissioners do not exceed the amount
authorized by said act.
"SECT. 3. No action or proceeding at law, commenced or pending, at the time of the passage of this act, shall abate or be discon.

THOMPSON V. PERRINE.

[Sup. or.

binned, or be in any way affected by reason thereof; but the same
may be prosecuted or defended, and judgment entered therein, and
all proceedings taken to enforce the same, in the same manner as
now provided by law, and with the like effect as if this act had not
been passed.
"SnCT. 4. This act shall take effect immediately."
Mr. T. F. Bush for the plaintiff in error.

Mr. William X. Evarts, contra.
MR.JUSTICE HARLAN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
Although the act of 1868 required all bonds issued under its
authority to be disposed of for not less than par, and their proceeds invested in the stock of the company, the commissioners
exchanged those issued by the town of Thompson directly with
the railroad company for an equal amount of the latter's stock.
This was in violation of the statute as construed by the Court
of Appeals of New York, in several cases to which we had
occasion to refer in 8cipio v. Wright, 101 U. S. 665. We there
held - following the decisions of the State court, some of which
were made long prior to the passage of the particular enactment now under examination - that a purchaser of town
bonds, having notice that they were exchanged for stock in a
railroad company, in violation of a statute similar to that of
1863, was not a bona fide holder, and could not enforce the
payment of them. We perceive no reason to qualify that ruling, and therefore proceed to the consideration of other questions not embraced by it.
It is apparent, upon the face of the act of 1871, that the
legislature was advised of the fact that the commissioners had
departed from the statute of 1868, in exchanging the bonds for
stock in the railroad company. And its manifest intention
was not only to ratify and confirm such exchange, but to protect any holder of the bonds, who became such in good faith,
foi a valuable consideration, against any defence arising out of
defects or omissions in the consents of taxpayers, proVided the
exchange was at the par value of the bonds and the issue did
not exceed the amount authorized by law

Oct. 1880.]

THOMPSON V. PERRINE.

The main argument of counsel for the town is embraced by
the following propositions: First, That the consents of taxpayers were not such as the acts of 1868 and 1869 required.
S&eond, That the bonds were exchanged for stock, in violation
of the statute; and since they recite, upon their face, that
they were issued "for value received in the stock of the Monticello and Port Jervis Railway Company," there could be no
lhulna fide holders thereof in the commercial sense. Third, That
they were not issued under the seals of the commissioners, as
required by the statute. Fourth, It was beyond the power of
the legislature, by subsequent enactment, to make them valid
obligations against the town, without its assent given in proper
form. Fifth, That no such assent was given.
If it be conceded that the consents were insufficient; that a
seal was necessary as evidence of the official authority of the
commissioners; that the recitals on the bonds, reasonably construed, gave notice to purchasers that they had been illegally
exchanged for stock, when they should have been disposed of
or sold, at not less than their par value, and their proceeds invested in the stock of the company, - the town is, nevertheless, liable, if the curative act of April 28, 1871, was within
the constitutional power of the legislature to pass. While this
question, in some of its aspects, may be one of general jurisprudence, - involving a consideration of the limits which, under
our form of government, are placed upon legislative and judicial
power, -it is proper to inquire as to the course of decisions in
the highest court of New York upon the authority of the legislature to pass such an act. This becomes necessary in view of
the fact that the Court of Appeals of that State has adjudged
the act, in its main features, to be unconstitutional. That
adjudication, it is contended, is conclusive of the rights of
parties in this case. As we are unable to give our assent to
this view, it is due to that learned tribunal that we should
state, with some fulness, the reasons for the conclusion which
we have reached.
Prior to the year 1858 the question arose in several cases
pending in different inferior courts of New York as to the constitutional power of the legislature to authorize or require
municipal corporations to subscribe for stock in railroad corn

THOMPSON V. PERRINE.

[Su..

panies, or to issue bonds therefor. The decisions disclosed a
conflict of opinion among judges of recognized ability. The
question finally came before the Court of Appeals in the year
1858, in Bank of Rome v. Village of Rome, 18 N. Y. 38. It was
there ruled that the State Constitution did not, in terms, or by
necessary intendment, restrain the legislature from conferring
upon municipal authorities the power to subscribe to the stock
of a railroad corporation, and by taxation to raise the necessary funds for the payment thereof. That decision was approved in 19 N. Y. 20. In People v. Mitchell (35 id. 651),
decided in 1866, the court quote, with approval, our decision in
Thompson v. Lee County (3 Wall. 327), where, speaking by Mr.
Justice Davis, we said that although a county or other municipal corporation has no inherent right of legislation, and can
exercise no power not conferred upon it, in express terms, or
by fair implication, the legislature, "unless restrained by the
organic law, has the right to authorize a municipal corporation
to take stock in a railroad or other work of internal improvement, to borrow money to pay for it, and to levy a tax to
repay the loan" and that such authority "can be conferred in
such a manner that the objects can be attained, either with or
without the sanction of the popular vote."
The decision in People v. Mitchell is important in other
aspects of the present case. The main question was as to the
validity of a confirmatory statute, the object of which was to
cure the defects in certain affidavits filed in proof of the consent of taxpayers to a proposed municipal subscription of stock
in a railroad company. The statute declared that the affidavits should be valid and conclusive proof in all courts and
for all purposes, to authorize and uphold the respective subscriptions of the stock and the issue of bonds to the amount
specified therein, and that the bonds should be valid and binding on the municipality.issuing them, without reference to the
form or the sufficiency of the affidavits. The court, referring
to the confirmatory statute, said that "it was within the scope
of legislative authority to modify the limitations and restrictions in the antecedent acts on this subject, to dispense with
prior conditions, and to charge the commissioners with defined
and imperative duties." And it quotes with approval our

Oct

1880.]

THOmPSON

V. PERRINE.

language in Thompson v. Lee County, where, referring to a
curative statute passed by the Iowa legislature, we further remarked, that "if the legislature possessed the power to authorize an act to be done, it could, by a retrospective act, cure the
evils which existed, because the power thus conferred had been
irregularly executed."
Thus stood the doctrines of the State court upon the question of municipal subscriptions and as to the power of the
legislature, by retrospective enactment, to cure defects in the
exercise of powers granted to municipal corporations, when
the act of April 28, 1,171, was passed. But in 1873 the Court
of Appeals decided People v. Batotellor, 53 N. Y. 128. That
was a case of municipal subscription to a railroad corporation
under an act passed in 1867, similar, in its main features, to
the one passed in 1868 in reference to the Monticello and Port
Jervis Railroad Company. It was claimed that the statute
had not been complied with in obtaining consents from taxpayers. A subsequent act of the legislature required the subscription to be made upon the consents filed, which the court
found not to be such as were prescribed by the statute under
which they had been obtained. Without any subscription having been made, or bonds issued, a mandamus was sued out to
compel the town to become a stockholder in the company, and
to issue its bonds in payment of the subscription price of the
stock. The court held that the consents of the taxpayers did
not embrace such an issue of bonds as the subsequent act required; and that the legislature could not compel a municipal
corporation to subscribe stock or issue bonds in aid of the consruction of the road of a company, which, although public as
to its franchise, was private as to the ownership of its property and its relations to its stockholders. The opinion was
concurred in by four of the judges, one concurred in the result,
one dissented, and one did not vote.
In Town of Duanesburgh v. Jenkins (57 id. 177), decided
in 1874 by the commission of appeals, -of concurrent jurisdiction and equal authority with the Court of Appeals, - the
court, by Johnson, J., reviewed the prior cases in the Court of
Appeals involving the questions discussed in People v. Batehellot In reference to the latter case it was intimated that the

THOMPSON V. PERRINE.

[Sup. at.

language of the court upon some of those questions was not
in harmony with its previous decisions, and that the opinion
should be limited to the point adjudged upon the facts existing in that case. After a careful analysis of those decisions,
the conclusions announced were that the authority of the legislature to enable towns and other civil divisions of the State
to subscribe for stock and issue bonds in aid of a railroad
company, bad been established by numerous decisions of the
highest court of the State; that there was no distinction in principle between a law authorizing a town, upon a popular vote,
to subscribe for such stock and issue bonds therefor, and a
law directing the same thing to be done; that when the authority to subscribe was made to depend upon the consent of
the town, it was in the discretion of the legislature to prescribe
how such consent shall be given; and that, if it originally
rested with the legislature to fix the terms on which the towns
might act, the same power could remit a part of the conditions
imposed, or heal any defects which may have occurred in the
performance by the town of those conditions. Much of the
language in that case is strikingly applicable to the one in
hand. Said the court: " In this case the commissioner has
been regularly appointed under the statute, by whom bonds
were to be issued and stock subscribed for, provided certain
consents were obtained and proofs filed according to the requirements of the several acts upon the subject. Consents were
obtained, and proofs were made and filed, which are now on
the one side claimed to be, and on the other are denied to be,
in conformity to the law. The commissioner meanwhile executed the bonds, subscribed for stock, and delivered the bonds
to the company in payment of the subscription; complying
with the requirements of the statute in all respects, if the
requisite consents had been given and proof made. The only
officer of the town who had any duty in the premises acted by
signing the bonds; and the legislature, seeing the whole matter, released the conditions which it had imposed, and declared
his assent binding upon the town, if the bonds had been issued
and the road had been built, and the bonds in that case obligatory. As it might have authorized action in this way and on
these conditions by the town originally, I see no objections tu

Oct. 1880.]

THOMPSON V. PERRINE.

giving effect to its ratification of the action of the town, an3
holding its consent thus expressed effectual." Again said the
court: "In this case the proper officer of the town has acted,
the bonds have been issued, and the stock subscribed for. The
objection is that the proof of preliminary consents by taxpayers is defective. The action of the legislature is, in my
judgment, sufficient to heal this defect, and to sanction the
action of the town commissioner in binding the town, the whole
consideration to the town having been received in the completion of the road and the issuing of the stock for its benefit."
In Williants v. Towu of Duanesburgh(66 N. Y. 129), decided
in May, 1876, the Court of Appeals of New York recognized the
correctness of the principles announced in People v. Mitchell
and Town of Duaneshurgh v. Jenkins, citing, among other authorities, Gelpeke v. Dubuque, 1 Wall. 175; Thompson v. Lee
County, 3 id. 327 ; Beloit v. Mt1oryan, 7 id. 619, and St. Joseph
Township v. Rogers, 16 id. 644. Alluding to the statutes for
bonding towns in aid of railroads, the court held that the legislature could overlook the defective execution of the power
conferred, and, by retroactive legislation, cure defects in the
action of municipalities under those statutes. The legislature may, said the court, "by subsequent legislation, when
there has been a failure to perform conditions precedent, and
the bonds have been issued, dispense with such conditions, and
ratify and confirm, and make valid and obligatory upon the
municipality, bonds issued without such performance, - at least
it may do so in cases where the municipality has, through the
construction of the road, or by the receipt of the stock of the
company in exchange for the bonds, received the benefit which
the statute contemplated as the equivalent for the liability it
was authorized to incur. The officers authorized under these
statutes to issue the bonds are public agents, and the legislature, looking over the whole matter, may, when in its judgment
justice requires it, ratify and confirm their acts, which otherwise would be valid. In this case, the legislature could origiually have authorized the bonds of the town of Duanesburgh
to be issued under the precise circumstances existing when
they were issued, and if the acts of the commissioner have,
by subsequent legislation, been ratified, it is equivalent author-

THOMPSON V. PERRINE.

[Sup. Ct.

ity to do what has been done." It is worthy of remark, in
this connection, that Allen, J., had held, in Clark v. City of
Rochester (13 How. (N. Y.) Pr. 204), decided in 1856, that the
legislature had no power under the Constitution to delegate
to, or confer upon, municipal corporations authority to subscribe for or to hold stock in railroad corporations, and to issue
bonds in payment therefor. Nevertheless, in Williams v. Town
of Duanesburgh(Church, C. J., concurring with him), he rec
ognized Town of Duanesburgh v. enkins as authority, and as
declaratory of the law.
But it is contended that the Court of Appeals of New York,
in the later case of Horton v. Town of Thompson (71 N. Y.
513), has decided the identical statute under examination to
be unconstitutional, and that this court is bound by the decision. The case was commenced about the time the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
York sustained the validity of that statute, and gave judgment
against the town for the amount of some of the bonds embraced in the issue of $148,000. Cooper v. Town of Thompson,
13 Blatchf. 434. H1orton v. Town of Thompson was decided in
the Supreme Court of the State after the present action was
instituted. It was a suit upon two interest coupons of $35
each, belonging to the same issue of bonds. It was finally
determined in the Court of Appeals shortly before the trial
of this case in the court below. The questions raised were,
whether the consent of the taxpayers was defective in not
naming the railroad to the construction of which the fund
should be applied; and whether the validating act of April
28, 1871, in so far as it declared the exchange of bonds for
stock to be legal, was not unconstitutional. Upon the first
question the court said, that as the consent was sufficiently
comprehensive in its terms to embrace the road in question,
and inasmuch as the legislature might legally have authorized
it to be in the form in which it was actually given, the act of
1871 "probably cured the defect in its form." But the court,
passing that question as one that need not be finally determined, held, upon the authority of People v. Batehellor, that
the legislature had no power to authorize, or direct, the coinmissioners originally to contract the debt without any consent

Oct. 1880.]

THoiiPsON v. PERRINE.

or action upon the part of the town; and, that since the consent of the taxpayers was not given for an issue of bonds to
be exchanged for stock, the legislature could not validate the
bonds and make them binding obligations upon the town, in
the hands at least of those who were informed, by their recitals,
that, in violation of the statute, they had been exchanged for
stock in the railroad company. Four of the judges concurred
in the opinion, and three dissented.
It is to be observed that the court does not refer to or
overrule Bank of Rome v. Village of Rome, People v. Mitchell,
Town of Duanesburghv. Jenkins, or Williams v. Town of Duane&burgls, supra.
We are unable to reconcile Rorton v. Town of Thompson,
upon the points now raised, with the doctrines of those cases or
of others decided in the Court of Appeals prior to People v.
Batfv ellor. It certainly cannot be said that there is such an
established, fixed construction by that court of statutes similar
to those of 1868 and 1869, or to the confirmatory act of 1871,
as obliges us to follow JHortoj4 v. Town of Thompson, or that
will justify any one in saying that the present question is
finally at rest in the courts of that State. But independently
of any such consideration, there are conclusive reasons why we
cannot, in opposition to our own views of the law, as expressed
in numerous cases, accept the principles of that case as decisive
of the rights of the present parties. When the act of April
28, 1871, was passed, it was the established doctrine of the
highest court of New York, as it was of this court, that the
legislature, unless restrained by the organic law of the State,
could authorize or require a municipal corporation, with or
without the consent of the people, to aid, by a subscription of
capital stock, in the construction of a railroad, having connection with the public interests of the people within the limits of
such municipality, and to provide for payment by an issue of
bonds or by taxation; that defects or omissions, upon the part
of such municipal corporation or its officers, in the execution of
the power conferred, or in the performance of the duty imposed,
could be cured by subsequent legislation, - certainly, where
the corporation had received the benefits which the original
subscription was designed to secure. As, therefore, the legisVOL. XIII.

THOmIPSON V. PERRINE.

[Sup. Ut.

lature might, in the original act under which these bonds were
issued, have authorized or required the bonds to be exchanged
directly with the railroad company for capital stock, it could
ratify and confirm such exchange, even where originally illegal,
so as to make them binding obligations upon the town in favor
of all who then held, or might thereafter acquire, them, in good
faith or for a valuable consideration. It is, therefore, an immaterial circumstance that the recitals in the bonds may have
furnished notice that they were issued originally in violation of
the statute. That was the very difficulty which the act of 1871
was designed to remove, and, as matter of law, it was removed,
if regard be had to the settled doctrines of this court, or to the
decisions of the highest court of the State rendered previously
to, and which were unmodified at, the passage of that act. It
results that from that moment the bonds, by whomsoever held,
whether by the railroad company or by others, became binding
obligations upon the town, as much so as if they had originally
been sold and their proceeds invested in the stock of the railroad company, as required by the acts of 1868 and 1869. If
the rights of those holding the bonds were in any degree affected by the subsequent decision in People v. Batchellor, the
later decision in Town -of Duanes6urgh v. Jenkins restored the
law, so far as the courts of New York were concerned, as it
undoubtedly was declared to be at the time the act of 1871 was
passed. The defendant in error acquired the bonds in suit in
1875, before the decision in Horton v. Town of Thompson, and
when, according to the principles announced in Town of Duanesburgh v. Jenkins and many prior cases in the Court of Appeals,
the act of 1871 must have been sustained as a valid exercise of
legislative power. He purchased them for value at public
auction in the city of New York, without notice of any defence
thereto, or of the pendency of any suit involving their validity.
If the recitals in the bonds gave notice that the acts of 1868
and 1869 forbade their exchange for stock, and required them
to be sold and their proceeds invested in such stock, the purchaser is also presumed to have known, not only that such
exchange had been legalized by the act of 1871, but that the
authority of the legislature to pass that act was sustained by
the decisions of the highest court of the State rendered prior to

Oct. 1880.]

THOMPSON V. P ERINE.

its passage. His rights, therefore, should not be affected by a
decision rendered after they accrued, which decision is in conflict with the law, as declared not only by this court in numerous cases, but by the highest court of the State, at and before
the time he purchased the bonds.
The assignments of error present another question which it
is our duty to notice.
The town pleaded in bar of the action a judgment of the
Supreme Court of the State in an action commenced in June,
1869, by the attorney-general of the State, on the relation of
Charles Kilbourne and others, taxpayers, against the Commissioners of the Town of Thompson, F. C. Crowley, C. L. Colt,
William D. Colt, the Monticello and Port Jervis Railway Company, and the Town of Thompson. A temporary injunction
was obtained on 24th June, 1869, restraining the respondents
and each of them from using, loaning, or selling the bonds and
from executing any other bonds based upon the consents given
by the taxpayers. But that injunction was vacated and set
aside on 27th July, 1869. A final decree was rendered in
1872 by which the bonds were declared to be null and void,
and they as well as the certificates of stock exchanged therefor
directed to be delivered up, by the respective parties, and cancelled. The general ground upon which the decree rested was
that the provisions of the act under which they were issued
were not complied with. From that judgment no writ of error
or appeal seems to have been prosecuted. We have already
seen that the entire issue of bonds was delivered to the railroad
before the commencement of that action, that is, in May, 1869;
and that after the dissolution of the injunction, to wit, in September and November, 1869, a large portion of the bonds had
found their way into the hands of others who purchased them
for value and without any notice of the pendency of the suit in
the Supreme Court.
There is an insuperable difficulty in the way of plaintiff in
error using the judgment in that case to defeat the present
action. The bonds were negotiable securities, which had
passed from the town before the action in the Supreme Court
of the State was commenced. Those who purchased them, in
the market, pending that litigation, or after it terminated,

THOMPSON V. PERRINE.

[Sup. Ct

without notice of the suit, and in good faith, for value, could
riot be affected by the final decree. Had the complainants
caused them to be surrendered to the custody of the court,
pending the suit, they could have been cancelled in pursuance
of the directions contained in the final decree. But the actual
custody of the railroad company was never disturbed, nor
sought to be disturbed. The knowledge by its officers of the
objects of the action, or of the terms of the final decree, could
not affect a bona fide purchaser for value who bad no such
knowledge. Our decision in County of Warren v. Marcy (97
U. S. 96), which is partly based upon adjudications in the
courts of New York (JMurray v. Lzflburn, 2 Johns. (N. Y.) Oh.
441, and Leitch v. Wells, 48 N. Y. 585), is conclusive upon this
branch of the case.
It is scarcely necessary to say that the decree of the Supreme Court of the State can derive no special force, as against
the defendant in error, by reason of the third section of the act
of April 28, 1871. That section only protected from the operation of the act any action or proceeding at law, commenced or
pending at the time of its passage. That provision furnishes,
perhaps, an explanation of the failure of the Supreme Court,
in its opinion, to refer to the act of 1871, which had passed
before its final decree was entered. The purpose of the third
section was only to require existing actions or proceedings at
law to be determined without reference to that act, and does
not affect the rights of a bona fide purchaser who was not a
party to the suit, and was without notice of its pendency.
We perceive no error in the record.
Judgment afirmed,

