PENNOCK

V.

COMBISSONERS.

[Sup. Cr.

court decided that it ought not, and in this we see nothing
wrong. Neither the nature of the case nor the real issue between the parties, as it had been tried, was changed by the
amendment. All that had been done was to present by the
pleadings, fairly and on its merits, the controversy as it had
actually been tried.
Judgnment affirmed.

PENNOCK V. COMISSIONERS.
1. Lands in Kansas held in fee-simple by a half-blood member of the tribe of
Sac and Fox Indians of the Mississippi under a patent from the United
States, issued pursuant to the seventeenth article of the treaty of Feb. 18
1867 (15 Stat. 405), are not exempt from State taxation.
2. The Kansas Indians (5 Wall. 737) distinguished.

to the Supreme Court of the State of Kansas.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
ERROR

Mr. George B. Peek and Mr. Thomnas 1?yan for the plaintiff
in error.
No counsel appeared for the defendants in error.
delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff, Sarah A. Pennock, is an Indian, and a member,
by "birth, blood, and descent," of the confederate tribes of
Sacs and Foxes of the Mississippi. At the date of the treaties of 1859 and 1867, between those tribes and the United
States, she was the wife of William Whistler, a member of the
same tribe. After his death she intermarried with one Henry
Pennock, a white person, a citizen of the United States, and
a resident of Kansas, with whom she now lives. In May, 1871,
she was the owner in fee of certain lands in Franklin County
in that State, which were listed and assessed by its officers for
taxes in the same way as other real property in the county.
The taxes and charges being unpaid, the lands wero sold to
pay tbhem, and certificates of sale given. To restrain the issue
of dweds to the purchasers, and to set aside the tax sale as illegal, the present suit was brought. The District Court of the
MR. JusTIcE FIELD

Oct. 1880.]

PENNOCK V. COMMISSIONERS.

county held the sale illegal, and gave a decree for the plaintiff.
The Supreme Court of the State reversed the decree and rendered judgment for the defendants, and the plaintiff has brought
the case, on writ of error, to this court.
It is admitted in the record that the plaintiff, though residing with her husband in Kansas, keeps up her relations with
her tribe, and the question is presented whether under these
circumstances her lands in Kansas are exempt from taxation by
that State. With some exceptions not applicable to them,
other property within its limits, real and personal, is subject
to taxation. The solution of the question depends upon the
construction given to the treaties between the United States
and the tribes mentioned.
By the treaty concluded with them in October, 1842, they
ceded to the United States all the lands west of the Missis,ippi River to which they had any claim or title, or in which
they had any interest. In consideration of the cession it was,
among other things, agreed that the United States should pay
to them an annual interest of five per cent on $800,000, and
discharge certain debts which they had contracted, and that
the President should assign to them a tract of land on the
Missouri River, or some of its waters, suitable and convenient
for Indian purposes, "for a permanent and perpetual residence
for them and their descendants." 7 Stat. 596. Pursuant to
this latter provision, the President soon afterwards assigned to
them a tract of land on the Missouri River, afterwards known
as their reservation, situated within what are now the limits
of the State of Kansas. The lands were held by them in
common until 1860. In the mean time, white settlements had
sprung up around them, and they had adopted many of the
halbits and customs of the white people. It was by comparison
,of their own condition with that of their white neighbors -at
least we may so infer from what subsequently occurred - that
they were induced to believe that the continued ownership of
their lands in common was not beneficial to them, and that
their prosperity would be promoted if limited quantities were
held by individuals in severalty. This consideration led to a
new treaty, which was concluded on the 1st of October, 1859,
, nd rtifed in July, 1860, 15 id. 467. It recited that the triboo

PENNOCK V. COMMISSIONERS.

[bap- Ct.

had more lands than were necessary for their occupancy and
use, and that they were anxious to promote "habits of industry
and enterprise amongst themselves by abolishing the tenure in
common " by which they held their lands, and "by assigning
limited quantities thereof in severalty to the individual members of the tribes, to be cultivated and improved for their individual use and benefit," and it stipulated, among other things,
that a portion of their reservation, amounting to 153,600 acres,
should be set apart and retained for that purpose ; and that out
of it there should be assigned to each member of the tribes,
without distinction of age or sex, a tract of eighty acres. It
declared that these tracts should not be aliened in fee, leased,
or otherwise disposed of by the parties to whom they were
assigned, except to the United States or to members of the
tribes, and then under such rules and regulations as might be
prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior, and that they
should be exempt from taxation, levy, sale, or forfeiture, until
otherwise provided by Congress.
In order to establish the members of the tribes upon the
lands thus assigned to them in severalty, by building them
houses and furnishing them with agricultural implements,
stock animals, and other necessary aid and facilities for coinmencing agricultural pursuits under favorable circumstances,
the treaty further provided that the lands in the reservation of
the tribes which were not thus set apart and retained should
be sold, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior,
and the proceeds expended for those purposes, and to pay the
debts of the tribes and of the individual members thereof.
These stipulations, which are set forth in the first five articles of the treaty, would be deemed to apply to all members of
the confederate tribes, but for the special provisions contained
in article 10. The latter relate exclusively to such members
as were either "mixed and half bloods," or women, being
whole-bloods, who had intermarried with white men. To each
of them three hundred and twenty acres were to be assigned
from that portion of the land relinquished by the treaty to the
United States in trust, provided the parties desired to take
such tracts. The lands thus granted were to remain inalienable except to the United States or members of the tribes, and

Oct. 1880.]

PENNOCK V. COMMISSIONERS.

the grantees were not to participate in the proceeds of the land
sold. This article operates as a limitation upon the provisions
of the previous articles, and confines them to members of the
tribes other than the mixed or half bloods, or the females intermarried with white men. These parties, by accepting the
grant of the tenth article, were excluded from the benefits and
freed from the restrictions of the other articles, except as they
were repeated in it. Under it various tracts of the quantity
specified were assigned to the parties coming under the classes
designated, and, among others, to Mrs. Pennock, - who is of
mixed and half blood, - the plaintiff in this suit, at the time
the wife of William Whistler.
In February, 1867, another treaty was concluded with the
Sacs and Foxes, which was ratified in October, 1868. 15 id.
495. By it they ceded to the United States all the lands in
Kansas to which they bad any claim, and agreed to remove to
the Indian Territory, where the United States promised to give
them for their future home another tract of land. The treaty
provided for their removal, the payment of certain debts contracted by them, the erection of various buildings for their use,
and other measures designed for their improvement and civilization. It also allowed various parties to select half and quarter
sections of land, and provided for the issue of patents to them.
Article 17 declared that the half-breeds and full-bloods, who
were entitled to selections of land under the treaty ratified in
July, 1860, and whose selections had been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior, should be entitled to patents in feesimple for the lands selected, according to certain schedules
annexed.
Under this treaty the tribes removed to the Indian Territory,
where they now reside, and under the seventeenth article
patents were issued to Mrs. Pennock, under her former name
of Sarah A. Whistler, and to other parties of a like class, for
the tracts of land severally assigned to them under the tenth
article of the treaty ratified in July, 1860. Mrs. Pennock did
not accompany her tribe, but remained with her white husband
in Kansas, having an indefeasible and absolute title to the
lands covered by her patent, and having acquired by purchase
other tracts from parties to whom similar patents had beea

PENNOCK V. COMMISSIONERS.

[Sup. Ct.

issued. She had renounced all claim to share in the proceeds
of lands in the reservation sold by the United States, by accepting the grant under the tenth article of that treaty. Her subsequent relation to her tribe, as a member of it, if she chose to
keep it up, cannot affect the jurisdiction of the State over her
property for governmental purposes. She might have followed
her tribe, - she can now do it; but as that tribe, under a
treaty with the United States, has left the State, while she
remains, and has taken, not an imperfect title, to be held
under the guardianship of the Secretary of the Interior, to be
disposed of only to the United States, under regulations to be
prescribed by him, but a title carrying with it absolute ownership, with a right of free disposition at her will, she and her
property have come under the control of the State, and are
subject to its laws, entitled to its protection, and bound to bear
a portion of its burdens.
The eighteenth article of the treaty does not, in our judgment, apply to the lands covered by the patent to the plaintiff,
or by the patents to the other parties from whom she purchased. Its language is that "All sales hereafter made by or
on behalf of persons to whom lands are assigned in this treaty
shall receive the approval of the Secretary of the Interior
before taking effect or conveying title to lands so sold." This
language strictly considered would, it is true, place a limitation
upon all subsequent sales, by or on behalf of persons to whom
lands were assigned under the treaty ; but we think the restriction was only intended to apply to the alienation of the lands
thus assigned, and not to other lands which such persons may
have had assigncd to them by other treaties. And we are also
of opinion that the restriction upon alienation only applies to
lands where the sole title of the holder is by the assignment
made. When the patent of the government is once issued for
the lands, all restrictions upon their alienation, not expressly
named, are gone. Without such designation, inability to
alienate the property would be inconsistent with the perfect
title which accompanies the patent.
There is nothing in the case of The Kansas Indians, reported
in 5th Wallace, in conflict with these views. There the Indians
yesde 4 in tribes, though their tribal organizmtions had ben

Vet. 1880.]

SPRING CO. V. KNOWLTON.

much broken in upon by their intercourse with the whites.
Patents to individual members, enabling them to hold lands in
s.everalty, were accompanied with a condition against alienatiun without the consent of the Secretary of the Interior. A
treaty of the United States with one of the tribes stipulated
that their lands should not be liable to "levy, sale, execution,
,,rforfeitnre," - terms which were held to prevent a levy and
-alc- by officers of the State for taxes, as well as a levy and sale
ander judicial proceedings. And the act admitting Kansas
into the Union as a State provided that the rights of the
Indians in the Territory should remain unimpaired, and the
general government be at liberty to make any regulation
respecting them and their lands which it would have been competent. to make had Kansas not been thus admitted. Their
tribal organizations continuing in the State, and the United
States treating with them as distinct political communities, the
legislature of Kansas could not interfere with their lands or
tle lands of individual members of the tribes, and subject
them to taxation.
Judgment affirmed.

SPRING COMPANY V. KNOWLTON
1. A party to a contract, the making of which, although prohibited by law, is
not rnabia in st, may, while it remains executory, rescind it and recover
money by him advanced thereon to the other party who had performed no
part thereof.
2. The trustees of A., a corporation which was organized under the act of New
Y,,rk of Feb. 17, 1848, for the formation of corporations for manufacturing
purposes, and acts amendatory thereof, passed a resolution increasing its
capital stock, which was $I,000,000, by the addition of $200,000, allowing
each stockholder ti, take one share of the new tock for every five shares
of the original tock which he held, and providing that on his paying in
instalments $I0 on each share of $100, a certificate as for full-paid stock
should be issued to him by the company, and on his failure to pay an
in.falment of ,20 per share on or before a specified date his claim to
the new stock should be forfeited, and such forfeited shares divided ratably
among the other stockholders who had paid that instalment. A subseription agreement binding the subscribers thereto to take stock and pay .80
per share in instalments as they should be called for by the company. and,
on failure to pay any instalment, to submit to the forfeiture of all sums
VOL. XIII.
4

