Oct. 1880.]

UNITED STATES V. HOUGH.

the rights of the parties by a judgment in the suit which was
pending there. Failing in this, they must submit to the same
judgment that has already been rendered against their representative in the State court. That was a judgment on the
merits of the identical matter now in question, and it concluded
the "parties and those in privity with them, not only as to
every matter which was offered and received to sustain or defeat the claim or demand, but as to any other admissible matter
which might have been offered for that purpose." Cromwell
v. County of Sao, 94 U. S. 351, 352. It is true the mortgagor
did not set up as a defence that the bank had no right to take
the mortgage, or that he was entitled to certain credits because
of payments of usurious interest, but he was at liberty to do
so. Not having done so, he is now concluded as to all such
Decre affirmed.
defences, and so are his privies.

UNITED STATES v. HOUGH.
1. A prayer for instructions which are presented as a whole, is properly refused
if any of them is erroneous.
2. A collector of internal revenue gave bond, Sept 16, 1864, with sureties to the
United States, conditioned for the payment of the money received by him
for stamps sold, and the return of those not sold, which had been or might
be delivered to him under the act of March 3, 1863, c. 74. That act was
repealed June 30, 1864. Held, that the liability of the sureties was limited
to the stamps delivered to him before the last-mentioned date.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Tennessee.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
3 r. Assistaot Attorney- General Smith for the appellant.
Mr. Philip Phillip. and 31r. W. Hallett Phillips, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MILLEn delivered the opinion of the court.

Ruel Hough, collector of internal revenue for the first district of Tennessee, was furnished by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue with a large amount of revenue stamps, and on

72

UNITED STATES V. HOUGH.

[Sup. Ct.

the sixteenth day of September, 1864, he gave, with sureties,
bond to the United States in the sum of $25,000, conditioned
for the payment of the money received by him for such stamps,
and a faithful return of those not sold, whenever required so
to do. Suit was brought on this bond. Treasury transcripts
were offered in evidence by the plaintiff, showing a statement
of his account in reference to revenue stamps, dated Sept. 30,
1870, by which he was found to be indebted to the United
States on that account in the sum of $6,093.78. Evidence
was offered by the defendants tending to show a balance of
$6,434.75 due to him for salary, commissions, and expenses as
disbursing agent, which he, before the institution of the suit,
had instructed the accounting officer to convey to the credit of
this stamp account, and which was sufficient to satisfy it.
Evidence was also offered tending to show a sum due from
Hough to the United States for money received as collector of
internal revenue, much larger than the amount of his credit for
salary and commissions as disbursing agent.
The case was tried by a jury. There was a verdict for the
defendants, on which judgment was rendered. The United
States sued out this writ.
The main assignments of error relate to the charge of the
court to the jury, and the refusal of the court to charge as
requested by counsel for the United States.
With reference to the charge given by the court, while it is
found in the bill of exceptions, there is clearly no exception
shown to that charge. The bill, after reciting the charge, is
immediately followed by the statement that "the district attorney moved the court for a new trial, which motion was
overruled by the court, to all which the district attorney excepted, and tenders this his bill of exceptions," &c. No mention is made of any exception or any objection to the charge of
the court, and none can be considered here.
Before this, however, the district attorney had asked of the
court to give a charge, consisting of four propositions, which
are set out, and "which instructions," says the bill, "the court
refused to give, and the district attorney excepted."
According to the well-settled rule of this court, if either of
these four propositions was erroneous, or, in other words, if all

Oct. 1880.]

UNITED STATES

V. HouG1.

the charge thus asked was not sound law, the court did right
in refusing the prayer which presented them as a whole. See
Johastn v. Jones, 1 Black, 209 ; Ha,vey v. Tyler, 2 Wall. 828;
LIeoln v. Claflin, 7 id. 182; Beaver v. Taylor, 93 U. S. 46;
JVrtldagton v. 3lason, 101 id. 149.
One of the propositions so asked was that, under the bond
sued on in this case, the sureties of Hough are liable for all
amounts of stamps which the proof shows came to his hand as
stamp agent, both before and since the execution of the bond,
unless the same had been properly accounted for.
It is true that one condition of the bond is to make a faithful return, whenever so required, of the moneys received by
him for such stamped vellum, parchment, or paper, and adhesive stamps, as have been or may hereafter be delivered to
him; but it is also a part of the condition of the bond describing the stamps for which they shall be liable, that they were
stamps delivered and to be delivered under I"the act of Congress to provide internal revenue for the support of the government, approved March 3, 1863," pursuant to the sixteenth
section of that act. Now, that act, and especially the sixteenth
section of it, was repealed by the act of June 80, 1864, which
enacts its own provisions on this subject. The act of March 3,
1863, was, therefore, no longer in existence when the bond was
taken which binds the sureties for stamps received under its
provisions, and, as the obligation of sureties cannot be extended beyond what they have in terms assumed, they cannot
be held liable for stamps furnished under the act of 1864. The
date of the bond, be it remembered, was Sept. 16, 1864. The
act of 1868 had then been repealed more than two months.
Stamps undoubtedly had been delivered, before the repeal of
the act of 1863, to Hough which had not been accounted for
when the bond was given, and it was competent for the government to take a bond covering the stamps advanced to him
under that act.
It was also competent for the sureties to limit their liabilities to stamps received under the act of 1863; and the record
shows that they did. The court below told the jury that the
sureties were only liable for stamps received by Hough prior
to the 30th of Tune, 1864, the date of the repealing act; and to

WALL V. OOUNTY OP MONtO

t.tsup.

(Jr.

this no exception was taken. As we think the court was right
in this, the charge asked by the district attorney was properly
rejected.
The difficulty seems to have grown out of the use of a form
of bond framed under a statute which had been repealed.
Objection is made to the admission of two pieces of evidence
designed to show that Hough had applied the credit due him
as disbursing agent to the extinguishment of the balance due
from him as stamp agent. The objection is not made to the
pertinency of the evidence, but to the fact that it was not presented for allowance as a credit to the proper accounting officer
of the treasury and rejected, as provided in sect. 951, Revised
Statutes.
The answer to this is that the claim itself had been allowed
by the proper accounting officer of the treasury, and the point
in issue was as to the application of the sum so allowed to one
of two distinct claims of the government against him. To
such a case the section has no application.
Though there may have been many errors committed in the
trial of this case, there are none so presented by the record
that we can correct them.
Judgment affirmed.

WALL V. COUNTY OF MONROE.
1. A county in Arkansas, when sued on its warrants by a bnazfide holder thereof
for value, may set up any defence to which they were subject in the hands
of the original payee.
2. The same rule is applicable where the warrants are issued to the payee, in lieu
of others in his favor cancelled by the county court, after it found them to
be just claims against the county.
3. Neither the order directing the issue of the original warrants, nor that cancelling them and substituting others in their place, has the force of a judicial
determination concluding either the payee of them or the county.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Arkansas.
This is an action upon the warrants of the county of Monroe, Arkansas, which were drawn by the clerk of the county

