Oct. 1880.]

GRINNELL v. RAILROAD CO.

and benefit of the occupants thereof, according to their respective interests." Folsom was not an intruder on their occupancy, but was himself a lawful occupant.
The evidence satisfies us that the value of the property
in dispute is more than $1,000; we, therefore, have jurisdiction.
The judgment against Folsom, who is the only appellant,
will be reversed, and the cause remanded with instructions to
enter or cause to be entered a judgment in his favor for the
premises claimed by him; and it is
So ordered.

GRINNELL v. RAILROAD

COMPANY.

1. The grant made to Iowa by the act of May 15, 1856, c. 28 (11 Stat. 9), to aid
in the construction of a railroad from Davenport to Council Bluffs, is in
pro-snfz, and, with certain exceptions therein specified, it vested in the
State the title to every section of public land designated by odd numbers
for six miles in width on each side of the road, when the line thereof should
be definitely fixed.
2. The act authorized the State, subject to the approval of the Secretary of
the Interior, to select, within the limit of fifteen miles of the road, land
in alternate sections equal in amount to that which, within the six-mile
limit, had been sold or otherwise appropriated by the United States. Quare,
Does the right to any particular section or part of section, beyond the siy
mile limit, vest in the State before the selection of it has been reported to
and approved by the proper officer.
8. After the lands had been duly certified to the State or to the railroad company, to which she transferred them, the legal title thereto was subject to
be defeated only by the United States, should there be a breach of any
condition annexed to the grant, and it was not divested by a change of
the location of part of the line of road authorized by the act of June 2,
1864, c. 103 (13 Stat. 95), although they are not situate within twenty miles
of the relocated line. Subsequent settlers could, therefore, acquire no
right thereto under the pre-emption or the homestead laws.

to the Supreme Court of the State of Iowa.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
31r. Saul S. Henk-le and M~r. John S. Hauke for the plaintiffs
in error.
l. Thomas S. Withrow for th, defendant in error.
ERROR

740

GRINNELL V. RAILROAD CO.

[Sup. Ct.

MR. JUSTICE MnmLnR delivered the opinion of the court.
Actions in the nature of ejectment were brought by the
Chicago, Rock Island, and Pacific Railroad Company against
numerous persons in different courts of the State of Iowa, and
heard and decided together by stipulation on appeals to the
Supreme Court, where the judgments of the lower courts in
fa7)r of the plaintiff were affirmed. The defendants sued out
this writ of error.
The plaintiff asserted title under the act of Congress of
May 15, 1856, c. 28 (11 Stat. 9), granting lands to the State
of Iowa for railroad purposes; and the counsel of the plaintiffs
in error correctly states in his brief that the only question presented by the record is, whether the railroad company has
under that grant acquired title to any lands within the old

fifteen-mile limit of the Mississippi and Missouri Railroad
Company. certified to the State under the grant by the Department of the Interior for the benefit of that company, but which
were left outside of the new twenty-mile limit by a change of
location of the old line, made by the present company under
the act of Congress of June 2, 1864, c. 108 (13 id. 95), amendatory of that act.
The material facts on which the decision of this question
depends may be thus succinctly stated: By the first act,
Congress made a grant to the State of Iowa for the purpose of aiding in the construction of four railroads across the
State from points on the Mississippi River to points on the
Missouri River. One of these was a road from Davenport to
Council Bluffs. The grant was of every alternate section of
land designated by odd numbers, for six sections in width,
on each side of said roads; and in case it should appear that
the United States had, when the lines or routes of said roads
were definitely fixed, sold any sections or parts of sections
granted as aforesaid, or the right of pre-emption had attached
to the same, then the State by its agent or agents might select
other odd sections in lieu of those thus deficient, within a limit
of fifteen miles on each side of said roads.
The State of Iowa, by an act of its legislature approved
July 14, 1856, granted to the Mississippi and Missouri Railroad Company the lands which were by the act of Congress

Oct 1880.]

GRINNELL V. RAILROAD CO.

appropriated to the construction of the road from Davenport
to Council Bluffs. That company accepted the grant, and on
the eleventh day of September, 1856, filed in the General LandOffice at Washington a map showing the route which it had
adopted for its road, some unimportant corrections of which
were made by another map filed April 1, 1857.
On the 4th of September, 1858, the agent of the company
and the State reported to the General Land-Office the selection
of lands in lieu of those which had been sold or to which the
right of pre-emption had attached, and on the 27th of December, 1858, the lands thus selected, and those which were in
place, were certified to the State by the Commissioner of the
General Land-Office. These lands in place and those selected
and certified to the State under the act of 1856 include all the
lands in controversy in this suit.
By the act of June 2, 1864, Congress authorized a change
of location of the uncompleted part of this road, so as to secure
a better and more expeditious line for connection with the
Iowa branch of the Union Pacific Railroad; and the plaintiff
below, which had succeeded to all the rights of the Mississippi
and Missouri Railroad Company, availed itself of the privilege
thus conferred, and so changed the route as to place it at some
points south of the fifteen-mile limits of the grant, as ascertained by the first location, and the road was completed on this
route to Council Bluffs in 1869. After all this, the plaintiffs
in error settled upon the lands in controversy, which were
within the limits of the location made in 1856, and without the
twenty-mile limits of the amendatory act of 1864, which will
be presently noticed, and proceeded by the appropriate steps
to assert rights under the homestead and pre-emption laws of
the United States. The Land Department refused to recognize
their right to the lands, but being in possession, and sued
therefor by the railroad company, they say that the company
has no title, because it lost whatever right it had to the lands
by the change of the location, and because locating the road
as now completed does not bring these lands within the limit
of either the original or the amendatory act.
Two inquiries are thus suggested, namely: Had the railroad
comuany acquired a title or a vested right to the lands in con.

GRINNELL V. RAILROAD

00.

[Sup. Ct.

troversy prior to the act of 1864, and to the change of location?
and, if it had, what was the effect of that change on its right
to the lands left by the change outside of the limits prescribed
by both acts?
The grant under the act of 1856 was, as has been often said,
a grant in presenti, and though exactly what this means has
been the subject of much controversy, we think its ascertainment is not difficult. The only doubtful element of the problem is the location of the road, which, by the terms of these
grants, is necessary to identify the sections granted on each
side of it. Whenever that is done so that a surveyor or the officers of the Land Department can protract the line of the route
on the maps of the public lands within the limit of the grants,
the identity of the lands granted is mathematically ascertained,
and the title relates back to the date of the grant.
So far as lands are found in place when this is done, not coming within the exceptions as sold or held under pre-emption,
the title, or at least the right to this land in place, is at once
vested in the State or in the company to which the State has
granted it, and the means of ascertaining precisely what lands
have passed by the grant is to be found in the map of the line
of the road, which is filed in the General Land-Office under
provisions of the statute. As regards the lands to be selected
in lieu of those lost by sale or otherwise, it may be that no
valid right accrues to any particular section or part of a section
until the selection is made and reported to the land-office, and
possibly not then until the selection is approved by the proper
officer.
None of these difficulties arise in the present case. The location was made and the map filed in the land-office, the selection of lieu lands was made and approved, and the entire list
regularly certified to the State of Iowa, as early as December,
1858, and with this certificate the last act of the United States
which could in any event be held necessary to passing the title
was performed, and either the State of Iowa or the railroad
company -it
is immaterial which for the purposes of this suit
- had become invested with the full legal title to the lands so
certified.
In this condition of affairs the Mississippi and Missouri Rail-

Oct. 1880.]

GRINNELL v. RAILROAD CO.

road Company executed, to obtain money to build its road, a
mortgage of its road and franchises, which also included the
lands granted by Congress to the State and by the State to
that company. The road commenced at Davenport, on the
Missouri, and was constructed westwardly one hundred and
thirty miles when the act of 1864 was passed. In 1866 the
mortgage was foreclosed, and the Chicago, Rock Island, and
Pacific Railroad Company, under sale at the foreclosure proceeding, and by subsequent consolidation, became the owner of
the road, the franchises, and the lands of the former company.
The entire legal title, therefore, to their land had passed, for
valuable consideration, to this company.
Did their construction of the road on the new line annul or
defeat, without further action on the part of the United States,
the title thus vested? It would have been competent for Congress to have made it a condition of the change of location,
that the lands within the six-mile or the fifteen-mile limit of
the old line, and not within the twenty-mile limit of the new
line, should revert to the United States, so far as the title of the
company was concerned. But it did not make any such condition. If no law had been passed authorizing the change of
route, it is possible the government might have reclaimed these
lands as forfeited by reason of the change, to which it had
not consented. But Congress did consent to the change without any declaration affecting the title already vested in the
company.
The second section of the act of 1864 provided for a grant
of land on each side of the new location, and for lieu lands
when those could not be found to an amount equal to that
granted by the original act of 1856, and it extended the limit
for selecting lieu lands to twenty instead of fifteen miles.
It is argued that the lands thus granted were intended as a
substitute for those accruing to the company under the first location, and that the latter necessarily reverted to the grantor ;
that it was the policy of the government that the lands granted
should be alongside of the road, and that those retained by the
government should thereby be enhanced in value. We are not
prepared to deny that if the railroad company had accepted or
received lands under the act of 1864. and the case was unem-

GRINNELL V. RAILROAD 00.

[Sup. C

barrassed by the rights of subsequent purchasers or mortgagees,
the United States could, by a judicial proceeding, enforce the
principle that an exchange of lands was intended.
But this would arise from no express language of the act of
Congress, or agreement with the company, but as a just and
proper inference from the whole transaction.
There is, however, no evidence that the company ever received any land under the act of 1864, or asserted a claim
thereto. It appears affirmatively that it never filed in the General Land-Office a map of its new route until 1870, a year after
the road was completed; and it is fair to presume that if it intended to assert a claim to land under the changed location, it
would have filed its map when the change was made or determined on. We do not think the act can be construed to forfeit the lands to which they had title when they claimed none
under the act of 1864.
Another point equally fatal to the plaintiffs in error is, that
the assertion of a right by the United States to the lands in
controversy was wholly a matter between the government and
the railroad company, or its grantors. The legal title remains
where it was placed before the act of 1864. If the government
desires to be reinvested with it, it must be done by some judicial proceeding, or by some act of the government asserting its
right. It does not lie in the mouth of every one who chooses
to settle on these lands to set up a title which the government
itself can only assert by some direct proceeding.
These plaintiffs had no right to stir up a litigation which
the parties interested did not desire to be started. It might
be otherwise if the legal title was in the government. Then
the land would be subject to homestead or pre-emption rights.
But the legal title is not in the government; and as we have
already shown, the equity is more than doubtful. Sclulenbe'g
v. Harriman,21 Wall. 44; Tucker v. Ferguson, 22 id. 527.
Judgment affirmed.
M.

JUSTICE BRADLEY

dissented.

