Oct. 1880.]

WARDELL V. RAILROAD

C0.

assert, as against a bona fide holder for value, that such recitals
are untrue. Buchanan v. Litchfield (102 U. S. 278), and authorities there cited.
There are other questions in the case which counsel have
pressed upon our consideration. None of them are, in our
judgment, vital to its merits, and we do not stop to comment
upon them.
Decree affirmed.

WARDELL v. RArnRoAD CoPANY.
1. The directors of a corporation are subject to the obligations which the law
imposes upon trustees and agents. They cannot, therefore, with respect to
the same matters, act for themselves and for it, nor occupy a position in
conflict with its interests.
2. Hence, a court will refuse to give effect to arrangements by directors of a
railroad company to secure, at its expense, undue advantages to themselves,
by forming, as an auxiliary to it, a new company, with the understanding that they or some of them shall become stockholders in it, and then
that valuable contracts shall be given to it by the railroad company, in
the profits of which they, as such stockholders, shall share.
8, The contract entered into July 16, 1868, by the Union Pacific Railroad Company, by direction of the executive committee of the board of directors,
with Godfrey and Wardell (infra, p. 652), which the latter assigned, without consideration, to a new company, in which a majority of the stock was
taken by six directors of the old company, declared to be fraudulent and
void.
APPIEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Nebraska.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Ir. James 0. Broadhead and Mr. James ff. Woolworth for
the appellant.
Mr. Andrew J. Poppleton for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The road of the Union Pacific Railroad Company passes for
its entire length, from Omaha on the Missouri River to Ogden
in Utah, a distance of 1,036 miles, through a country almost
destitute of timber fit for fuel. During its construction, however large deposits of coal, of excellent quality and easily

-WARDELL

v.

RAILROAD

CO.

[Sup. ot.

worked, were discovered in land along its line, from which
abundant supplies for the use of the company could be obtained. The complainant represents that their extent, quality,
and value were unknown, and that doubts were generally entertained as to their adequacy to meet the necessities of the
company, until he had made explorations in June, 1868, and
reported to its managers the information which he had thus
acquired; and that upon that information the contract which
has given rise to this suit was made, after much negotiation,
between the company and himself and Cyrus 0. Godfrey, with
whom he had become associated in business. But in this respect
he is mistaken. Though he may have imparted to the managers the information acquired by his explorations, the knowledge of the existence and general character of the deposits had
been communicated to them years before by the engineers appointed to survey the route for the construction of the road.
They had reported that coal in inexhaustible quantities, of
suitable quality for the purposes of the company, was found so
near the line of the road as to render its extraction and delivery
easy and convenient. It is of little moment, however, whether
the knowledge of the existence, character, extent, and accessibility of the deposits was obtained from the complainant or
from others; it is sufficient that the directors of the Union
Pacific Railroad Company, having the control and management
of its road and business, were informed upon the subject at the
time the contract mentioned was made. That contract was as
follows

-

"This agreement, made this sixteenth day of July, in the year of
our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-eight, between the
Union Pacific Railroad Company, by its proper officers, of the first
part, and Cyrus 0. Godfrey and Thomas Wardell, of the State of
Missouri, or assigns, parties of the second part " Witnesseth, that the said party of the first part agrees that the
said parties of the second part may prospect at their own expense
for coal on the whole line of the Union Pacific railway, and its
branches and extensions, and open and operate any mines discovered, at their own expense; that said railroad company agrees to
purchase of said parties of the second part all clean merchantable
coal mined along its road, needful for engines, depots, shops, and

Ot. 1880.]

WARDELL V. RAILROAD CO.

other purposes of the company, and to pay for the same the first
two years at the rate of six dollars per ton ; for the next three years
at five dollars per ton; for the four years thereafter at four dollars
per ton ; and for the six years remaining at the rate of three dollars
per ton, delivered upon the cars at the mines of the said party of
the second part, and which shall not be less than ten per cent added
to the cost of the same to the said party of the second part. This
contract to be and remain in full force and effect for the full term of
fifteen years from the date hereof.
"The said railroad company agrees to facilitate the operations of
the said parties of the second part, in prospecting and otherwise, by
means of such information as it may possess, and by furnishing free
DassPS on its road to the agents of the parties of the second part,
not exceeding six in number. Said railroad company further agrees
to put in switches and the necessary side-tracks, at such points as
may be mutually agreed upon, for the accommodation of the business of the said parties of the second part; that the said parties of
the second part agree to make all necessary exertions to increase
the demand and consumption of coal by outside parties along the
line of said railroad, and to open and operate mines at such points
where coal may be discovered, as may be desired by said railroad
company; and to expend within the first five years from the date of
this agreement, in the purchase and development of mines and mining lands, and improvements for the opening, successful and economical working of the same, not less than the sum of twenty
thousand dollars; also to furnish for the use of the said railroad
company good merchantable coal, and to pay all expenses for improvements for loading coal into cars. Any improvement desired
by said railroad company in regard to the coal to be used by it shall
be at the cost of said railroad company.
"In consideration of their exertions to increase the demand for
coal, and the large sum to be expended in improvements, it is
further agreed that the parties of the second part shall have the
right to transport over the said railroad and its branches for the
next fifteen years from the date of this agreement, coal for general
consumption at the same freight that will be charged to others;
but the said parties of the second part shall be entitled in consideration of services to be rendered as herein provided, to a drawback
of twenty-five per cent on all sums charged for the transportation
of coal.
"The said railroad company agrees to furnish the parties of the
second part such cars as they may require in the operaticn of their

WARDELL V. RAILROAD Co.

[Sup. Ct.

ousiness, and to transport them as promptly as possible. Thin
agreement to remain in force for fifteen years.
"The coal lands owned by said party of the first part are hereby
leased for the full term of fifteen years to the said parties of the
second part or their assigns, for the purpose of working the same as
may seem to them profitable; said parties of the second part to pay
for the first nine years a royalty of twenty-five cents per ton for
each ton of coal taken from their lands, excepting always coal taken
from entries, air-courses, or passage-ways, for which coal no royalty
shall be paid ; payments for the same being due and payable
monthly.
"The royalty for the last six years of this lease shall be free, provided the price of coal to the railway company is reduced to three
dollars per ton. If three dollars and twenty-five cents or more per
ton, then in that case the royalty shall be as during the first nine
years.
"In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and seals,
this the day and year first above mentioned.
(Signed)
"OLIVER Amrs,
"President of the Union PacificR. R. Co.

"C. 0. GODFREY.
"Tnoms WARDELL."

This contract on the part of the railroad company was made
by direction of the executive committee of the board of directors, of whom the president was one, and not by the board
itself. It was never reported to the board for its consideration
or action. But notwithstanding this defect, in August following the contractors, Wardell and Godfrey, entered upon its
execution, and began work on several mines along the line of
the road. Soon afterwards Godfrey transferred his interest to
Wardell, perceiving, as the bill alleges, that sums beyond those
stipulated would be required, and being alarmed at the risks
which be believed he had assumed.
In January following (1869) a corporation under the laws of
Nebraska, called the Wyoming Coal and Mining Company, was
formed to develop and work the mines, having a capital stock
of $500,000, divided into shares of $100 each, a majority of
which was taken by six of the directors of the railroad company, one of whom was its president; and to it. Wardell as.
signed his contract without any consideration.

Oct. 1880.]

WARDELL V. RAILROAD

CO.

The corporation continued the execution of the contract,
Wardell, acting as its superintendent, secretary, and general
manager, and delivered coal as needed by the railroad company
up to the 13th of March, 1874, when the officers and agents of
that company, by order of its directors, took forcible possession
of the mines and of the books, papers, tools, and other personal
property of the coal company, which they have held and used
ever since. Hence the present suit, which Wardell brings in
his own name, alleging as a reason that a majority, if not all,
of the directors and stockholders of the coal company, except
himself, are also directors and stockholders of the railroad company, and that, therefore, he can obtain no relief by a suit in
the name of the coal company. He prays that an account may
be taken of the amount due for the coal delivered to the railroad company; for drawback on freight from the date of the
contract to the forcible seizure alleged; for coal extracted from
the mines since their seizure; for the property of the coal com
pany taken, and for the damages arising from the seizure and
the attempted abrogation of the contract; and that the rights
and interests of the several parties may be ascertained and declared; and for general relief.
To this bill the railroad company filed an answer, setting up
in substance three defences: 1st, That the contract of July 16, 1868, was a fraud upon
the company; that it was made on its part by the executive
committee of its board of directors, a majority of whom were,
by previous agreement, to be equally interested with the contractors in it, and for that reason its terms were made so favorable to the contractors and unfavorable to the company as to
enable the former to make large gains at the expense of the
latter, and that the organization of the Wyoming Coal and
Mining Company was a mere device to enable those directors
to participate in the profits ; and that, therefore, the contract
was of no validity and binding obligation upon the company;
2d, That at the time of the seizure of the property the railroad company was the owner of nine-tenths of the stock of the
,oal company, and bad become apprehensive that Wardell, its
-4perintendent and manager, would not furnish the coal needed
s- run the trains; and,

WARDELL V. RAILROAD CO.

[Sup. t

3d, That since then the coal company and the railroad company, through their boards of directors, have had a settlement
of their transactions, by which the contract of July 16, 1868,
has been rescinded and the sum of $1,000,000 allowed to the
coal company, and that the railroad company has set apart and
tendered to the complainant $100,000 for his share in the coal
company in that settlement.
The court below held that the contract of July 16, 1868, was
a fraud upon the company, but that the complainant was, apart
from it, entitled to some compensation for his time, skill, and
services while engaged in taking out the coal, with the return
of the money actually invested and compensation for its use,
the amount to be credited with what he had actually received
out of the business; and that at his election he could have an
accounting upon that basis or take the $100,000 tendered by
the company. Of the alternatives thus offered the complainant
elected to take the $100,000 instead of having the accounting
mentioned, but appealed to this court from the decree, contending that the contract itself was valid and that he is entitled to
an accounting upon that hypothesis.
The evidence in the case justifies the conclusion of the court
below as to the nature of the contract of July 16, 1868. It
was evidently drawn more for the benefit of the contractors
than for the interest of the company. The extent, value, and
accessibility of the coal deposits along the line of the road of
the company were, as stated above, well 'known at the time to
its directors, having the immediate control and management
of its business. Wardell, the principal contractor, informed
those with whom he chiefly dealt in negotiating the contract
that coal could be delivered to the company at a cost of two
dollars per ton, yet the contract, which was to remain in force
fifteen years, stipulated that the company should pay treble this
amount per ton for the coal the first two years, two and a half
times the amount for the next three years, twice the amount
for the following four years, and one-half more for the balance
of the time. And lest these rates might prove too little, the
contract further provided that the sum paid should not be less
than ten per cent added to the cost of the coal to the contractors. These terms and the leasing of all the coal lands of the

Oct. 1880.]

WARDELL V. ]RAILROAD CO.

company for fifteen years to those parties upon a royalty of
twenty-five cents a ton for the first nine years, and without any
royalty afterwards if the price of the coal should be reduced to
three dollars, with the stipulation to provide side-tracks to the
mines, and also to furnish cars for transportation of coal for
general consumption, and after charging them only what was
charged to others, to allow them a drawback of twenty-five per
cent on the sums paid, gave to them a contract of the value
of millions of dollars. These provisions would of themselves
justly excite a suspicion that the directors of the railroad company, who authorized the contract on its behalf, had been
greatly deceived and imposed upon, or that they were ignorant
of the cost at which the coal could be taken from the mines
and delivered to the company. But the evidence shows that
those directors were neither deceived nor imposed upon, nor
were they without information as to the probable cost of taking
out and delivering the coal. And what is of more importance,
it shows, as alleged, their previous agreement with the contractors for a joint interest in the contract, and, in order that they
might not appear as co-contractors, that a corporation should be
formed in which they should become stockholders, and to which
the contract should be assigned; and that this agreement was
carried out by the subsequent formation of the Wyoming Mining
and Coal Company and their taking stock in it. This matter
was so well understood that when the contractors commenced
their work in developing the mines and taking out the coal,
they kept their accounts in the name of the proposed company,
though no such company was organized until months afterwards.
It hardly requires argument to show that the scheme thus
designed to enable the directors, who authorized the contract,
to divide with the contractors large sums which should have
been saved to the company, was utterly indefensible and illegal.
Those directors, constituting the executive committee of the
board, were clothed with power to manage the affairs of the
company for the benefit of its stockholders and creditors.
Their character as agents forbade the exercise of their powers
for their own personal ends against the interest of the company. They were thereby precluded from deriving any advantage from contracts, made by their authority as directOrs, except
VOL. XIII.

42

WARDELL V. RAILROAD CO.

[Sul). Gt.

through the company for which they acted. Their position
was one of great trust, and to engage in any matter for their
personal advantage inconsistent with it was to violate their duty
and to commit a fraud upon the company.
It is among the rudiments of the law that the same person
cannot act for himself and at the same time, with respect to
the same matter, as the agent of another whose interests are
conflicting. Thus a person cannot be a purchaser of property
and at the same time the agent of the vendor. The two positions impose different obligations, and their union would at
once raise a conflict between interest and duty; and, "constituted as humanity is, in the majority of cases duty would be
overborne in the struggle." .i£arshv. Whitmore, 21 Wall. 178,
183. The law, therefore, will always condemn the transactions
of a party on his own behalf when, in respect to the matter
concerned, he is the agent of others, and will relieve against
them whenever their enforcement is seasonably resisted. Direc
tors of corporations, and all persons who stand in a fiduciary
relation to other parties, and are clothed with power to act for
them, are subject to this rule; they are not permitted to occupy
a position which will conflict with the interest of parties they
represent and are bound to protect. They cannot, as agents or
trustees, enter into or authorize contracts on behalf of those
for whom they are appointed to act, and then personally participate in the benefits. Hence all arrangements by directors of a
railroad company, to secure an undue advantage to themselves
at its expense, by the formation of a new company as an auxiliary to the original one, with an understanding that they, ol
some of them, shall take stock in it, and then that valuable
contracts shall be given to it, in the profits of which they, as
stockholders in the new company, are to share, are so many
unlawful devices to enrich themselves to the detriment of the
stockholders and creditors of the original company, and will be
condemned whenever properly brought before the courts for
consideration.
Great Luxembourg Railway Co. v. iiagnay,
25 Beav. 586; Benson v. Heathorn, 1 Y. & Col. C. 0. 826,
Flint & Pere Marquette Railway Co. v. Dewey, 14 Mich. 477;
European & North American Railway Co. v. Poor,59 Me. 277,
Drury v. Cross, 7 Wall. 299.

Oct. 1880.]

WARDELL V. RAILROAD CO.

The scheme disclosed here has no feature which relieves it
of its fraudulent character, and the contract of July 16, 1868,
which was an essential part of it, must go down with it. It
was a fraudulent proceeding on the part of the directors and
contractors who devised and carried it into execution, not only
against the company, but also against the government, which
had largely contributed to its aid by the loan of bonds and by
the grant of lands. By the very terms of the charter of the
company five per cent of its net earnings were to be paid to
the government. Those earnings were necessarily reduced by
every transaction which took from the company its legitimate
profits. It is true that some of the directors, who approved of
or did not dissent from the contract, early stated that they held
their stock in the coal company for the benefit of the railroad
company and transferred it, or were ready to transfer it, to the
latter; but the majority expressed such a purpose only when
the character and terms of the contract became known and
they were desirous to screen themselves from censure for their
conduct.
The complainant, therefore, can derive no benefit from the
contract thus tainted, or sustain any claim against the railroad
company for its repudiation. The coal company may, perhaps,
be entitled to reasonable compensation for the labor actually
expended in the development of the mines and delivery of coal
to the railroad company, considered entirely apart from the
contract; and also for its property forcibly taken possession of
by the officers of the railroad company. But an accounting for
compensation thus limited is not desired by him, and as the
two companies have since settled the matter in dispute between
them by the payment of $1,000,000 to the coal company, of
which $100,000 has been set apart for complainant, and he has
elected to take that sum if an accounting cannot be had upon
the assumed validity of the contract, the decree of the court
below is

Affirmed.

