Oct. 1880.]

HOYT V. SPRAGUE.

613

January Term closed. It follows that the presentation of the
petition for removal at the next term was too late, and the order
of the Circuit Court remanding the cause on that account is
Afrmed
consequently

HoYT v. SPRAGUE.
FRANCKLYN V. SPRAGU-E.
1. If the executor of a deceased partner consents to the surviving partners con
tinuing the business with the assets of the firm, his lien on property thereafter acquired will be postponed to that of creditors, when a case arises for
an equitable marshalling of assets; as, where the surviving partners make
a general assignment for the benefit of creditors.
2. In such case, the beneficiaries of the deceased partner's estate cannot have
priority over the claims of creditors upon the partnership assets.
3. The property of nudnors, equally with that of adults, is subject to the /er rei
sit&, though the minors reside in another State or country. The local law
may provide for the guardianship of such property, and for its administration and investment. By comity only will anything be conceded to the
claims of the guardian of the domicile; although it is usual, by comity, to
appoint, if due application be made for that purpose, the same person
guardian who was appointed by the domiciliary court.
4. In the absence of constitutional restraint, the legislature may pass special
laws for the sale or investment of the estates of infants or other persons
who are not sujuris.
5. Where an executor and guardian in Rhode Island, by virtue of such a special
law, and by order of the Probate Court, conveyed the property of infants
to a manufacturing corporation, by way of investment in its capital stock,
-Held,
that the conveyance and investment were protected by the law,
and that no account could be demanded except for the stock and its dividends.
d Where minors were interested in a manufacturing establishment, as beneficiaries under a deceased partner, and the administrator, who was also
their guardian, without any fraud, but with entire good faith, allowed the
business to be continued by the surviving partners for several years, without filing any inventory or account; and the property suffered no deterioration, but increased in value, and was then, by virtue of a special law,
transferred to a corporation created for the purpose; and the beneficiaries,
after that, for more than seven years subsequently to coming of age,
received dividends on their share of the stock and annual stated accounts
-Hed, that, by reason of such acquiescence, they could not sustain a bill
In equity fo an account of the estate.

HOYT V. SPRAGUE.

[sup. Ct.

APPEALS from the Circuit Court of the Unite-d States for
the District of Rhode Island.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Tilliam Allen Butler and Mr. George . Comstock for
the appellants.
Hr. Charles Thurston and Mr. Benjamin F. Thurston, contra.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

These cases come up on appeal from the decrees of the Circuit Court for the District of Rhode Island dismissing the
complainants' bills. One of the bills was filed by William S.
Hoyt and the other by Charles G. Francklyn and Susan his
wife, against Amasa Sprague, William Sprague, individually,
and as guardian of the said Hoyt and said Susan; Fanny
Sprague, widow and administratrix of Amasa Sprague, Sen.;
Mary Sprague, widow and administratrix of William Sprague,
Sen., and formerly guardian of said Hoyt and said Susan;
The A. & W. Sprague Manufacturing Company, and Zechariah
Chafee, assignee of said company for the benefit of creditors,
&c. The general object of the bills is, to establish a lien and
trust in favor of the complainants, as grandchildren of William
Sprague, Sen., against the property of the A. & W. Sprague
Manufacturing Company, now in the hands of Chafee, the
assignee, each to the extent of one twenty-fourth part of the
whole property; that being the amount of their interest in
the property of the former firm of A. & W. Sprague, which
was transferred to the corporation in 1865, whilst the complainants were infants, in fraud, as they allege, of their
rights.
Many charges of fraud are made in the bills against the
defendants Amasa Sprague and William Sprague, who carried on the business of the firm after the death of William
Sprague, Sen., in 1856, in connection with Byron Sprague,
until 1862, and after that by themselves. The cases are substantially the same in all respects, and will be considered
together.
In order properly to understand the questions raised it will
be necessary to take a summary view of the facts.
Amasa Sprague and William Sprague, brothers, under the

Oct. 1880.]

HOYT V. SPRAGUE.

name of A. & W. Sprague, carried on the manufacturing business in Rhode Island until 1843, when Amasa died, leaving a
widow, Fanny Sprague, and four children, two sons and two
daughters. The widow took out letters of administration on
her husband's estate. The value of the partnership property at
that time was estimated at $100,000. William continued to
carry on the business with the joint capital, under the same
firm name, for the benefit of himself and his brother's family,
for thirteen years, when, on the 19th of October, 1856, he died,
leaving a widow, Mary Sprague, a son, Byron Sprague, and four
grandchildren, who were the children of a deceased daughter,
Susan, and her husband, Edwin Hoyt, of the city of New York.
These children were at that time under fourteen years of age.
Their names were Sarah, Susan S., William S., and Edwin
Hoyt, Jr. Sarah was twelve, Susan eleven, and William S.
was nine years old at the time of their grandfather's death.
William S. Hoyt is the complainant in one of the cases now
under consideration, and Susan S. Hoyt, now wife of Charles
G. Francklyn, with her husband, is complainant in the other
case.
William Sprague largely extended the business of the firm,
so that when he died the property, real and personal, was estimated at about 83,000,000. Shortly before his death, and during his last illness, he took into partnership with him, evidently
for the purpose of continuing the business and keeping it together, his own son, Byron, and his two nephews, Amasa and
William, the sons of his deceased brother Amasa. The terms
of this partnership, and the interest which the young men were
to have in it, does not appear. They continued, after William
Sprague, Sen.'s, death, to carry on the business, as it had previously been carried on, under the name of A. & W. Sprague,
without making a settlement with the representatives or beneficiaries of either Amasa Sprague's or William Sprague's
estate.
William Sprague, Sen., left no will; and his widow, Mary
Sprague, took out letters of administration on his estate.
Whilst, therefore, the three young men, Byron Sprague, Amasa
Sprague, and William Sprague, as surviving partners of William Sprague, Sen., carried on the business of the firm of A. &

HOYT

V. SPRAGUE.

[Sup. Ct.

W. Sprague, the persons really interested were, first, the two
widows and administratrixes, Fanny Sprague and Mary Sprague,
who were legally entitled respectively, by right of administration, to the several interests of Amasa Sprague, Sen., and
William Sprague, Sen.; and, secondly, the beneficiaries, or distributees of the estates of Amasa and William, respectively,
namely, the widow and four children of Amasa Sprague, Sen.,
and the widow and two children of William Sprague, Sen.,one of the latter, Mrs. Hoyt, being deceased, and being represented by her four children.
One of the daughters of Amasa Sprague had been settled
with before William's death, and the other shortly afterwards,
by her brothers purchasing her interest. This left the beneficial interest of the property divisible into six equal parts, belonging respectively to Fanny Sprague, widow of Amasa, and
her two sons, Amasa and William, and Mary Sprague, widow
of William, her son Byron, and the children of her daughter,
Susan Hoyt. These persons were all of age, and otherwise sui
juris, except the Hoyt children, and were all able to consent,
and did consent, that the entire partnership estate should be
continued in the business of the firm as it had been before.
The Hoyt children, of course, could not give any such consent.
They resided with their father, Edwin Hoyt, in New York,
who was at the head of a commission-house in that city by
the name of Hoyt, Spragues, & Co., which sold on commission a large portion of the goods manufactured by A. & W.
Sprague. The partners of the firm were associated with
him. Of course he must have been well acquainted with
the business of the manufacturing establishment, and the
large interest which his children had in the concern must
have insured his attention to its management. Mr. Hoyt consented to and approved of the continuance of his children's
portion in the business of the partnership; and his natural
regard for their interests, in connection with his opportunities for observation, preclude the presumption that such continuance was the result of any fraudulent scheme. Had any
such scheme been in contemplation, he must have detected and
would have thwarted it.
In addition to the consent and acquiescence of their father,

Oct. 1880.]

HOYT v. SPRAGUE.

was that of their property guardian in Rhode Island. On the
9th of February, 1857, shortly after William Sprague, Sen.'s,
decease, letters of guardianship were issued by the Probate
Court of the town of Warwick, R. I., to Mary Sprague, grandmother of the Hoyt children, on the property of said children.
Mrs. Sprague consented that both her own interest in the estate and that of her grandchildren and wards should be continued in the partnership business. At that time (1857) this
business was no doubt regarded by most persons who had any
acquaintance with it as highly prosperous, and an investment
in it advantageous and safe. And whilst, according to the
strict rules of law, Mary Sprague should have drawn out the
children's share, and should not have left it to the hazards of
trade, it may be said in her excuse that she was following out
the plan of her husband, who had for thirteen years induced
his brother's widow to continue the interest of her children
in the concern, and had thereby greatly increased their inheritance. At all events, we have no evidence that Mary
Sprague was actuated by any other than the most worthy
motives in permitting everything to remain in the business.
Any charge of fraud against her cannot be entertained for a
moment.
The business was conducted without change until 1862,
when Byron Sprague sold out his interest to Amasa and William, and upon an account taken at that time said interest was
valued at 6605,722.78, which amount was accordingly paid to
him. No other change in the situation of the parties interested
took place until 1865, when it was proposed to place the
property of A. & W. Sprague in a corporation, or corporations,
charters having been obtained from the legislature of Rhode
Island for that purpose. One of these charters was passed in
May, 1862, and constituted Byron Sprague, William Sprague,
and Amasa Sprague, and their associates, successors, and assigns, a body corporate and politic by the name of A. & W.
Sprague Manufacturing Company, with a capital stock of
$1,000,000, to be divided into shares of $100 each.
In view of such proposed corporate organization, Mary
Sprague, as guardian of her grandchildren, and Edwin Hoyt,
their father, in January, 1863, presented a petition to the legis

HOYT V. SPRAGUE.

(Sup. Oth

lature of Rhode Island, in which, after stating the appointment
of Mary Sprague as the guardian of the estate of said minors,
and their interest in the property of A. & W. Sprague, they
stated that they deemed it advisable to invest the same in
such corporations as should be organized under the charters
previously granted; and they asked that the said Mary, as
such guardian, might be authorized to make such conveyance as would be necessary to that end. On the 9th of
March, 1868, a joint resolution of the legislature was passed,
granting said petition, which resolution was in the following
terms: -

"Resolution authorizing Mary Sprague, of Warwick, guardian, to
make conveyance of the interest of minors in and to the
property of the firm of A. & W. Sprague.
"Upon the petition of Mary Sprague, of Warwick, widow of
William Sprague, late of Warwick, deceased, and of Edwin Hoyt, of
the city and State of New York, representing that the said Mary
is guardian of the estates; and the said Edwin, father of Edwin
Hoyt, Jr., Susan S. Hoyt, Sarah Hoyt, and William S. Hoyt, minor
children and heirs-at-law of Susan Hoyt deceased, and praying,
for certain reasons, that the said Mary may be authorized and empowered to make conveyance in her said capacity, of all the right,
title, and interest of said minor children, as heirs-at-law of their said
mother, in and to all the estate and property, real, personal, and
mixed, now held, owned, and managed by the firm of A. & W.
Sprague of Providence:
" Voted and resolved, that the prayer of said petition be and the
same is hereby granted; and the said Mary Sprague, in her capacity
as guardian of the estate of Edwin Hoyt, Jr., Susan S. Hoyt, Sarah
Hoyt, and William S. Hoyt, is hereby authorized and fully empowered, whenever any corporation or corporations shall be organized under either or any of the charters heretofore granted by the
General Assembly of this State, and conveyance or conveyances
shall become necessary to vest the title of the parties interested in
any of said property so held, owned, or managed by the firm of
A. & W. Sprague, in any such corporation or corporations, to make,
execute, seal, acknowledge, stamp, and deliver all and any such conveyance and conveyances to any such corporation or corporations
as shall be necessary to vest the right,, title, and interest of the said
minors in and to said property, or any portion thereof, in any such

Oct. 1880.]

HoYT V. SPRAGUE.

corporation or corporations; and that any such conveyance or conveyances so executed, acknowledged, stamped, and delivered shall
be deemed and held as valid and effectual in law and in equity to
vest the title of said minors in any such corporation or corporations
as though the same were executed, acknowledged, stamped, and
delivered by said minors after attaining their majority.
"Provided, that before the delivery of any such conveyance oi
conveyances, the said Mary shall have executed and delivered to
the Court of Probate of Warwick every such bond or bonds with
herself in her said capacity, and said Edwin Hoyt, as principals, in
such penal sum or sums and with such sureties as said probate
court shall require, conditioned for the investment of the amount
of the full value of the interests of said minors, which she shall then
be about to convey in the capital stock of any such corporation or
corporations to which the same shall be conveyed, in the names
and for the use and benefit of said minors."
Further, in view of the proposed corporate organization,
steps were taken by the parties in interest to ascertain the
value of the partnership assets, and the relative interest of
each shareholder. For this purpose an agreement was entered
into on the first day of April, 1865, between all the parties,
Fanny Sprague signing individually and as administratrix of
Amasa Sprague; Mary Sprague signing individually and as
administratrix of William Sprague and as guardian of her
grandchildren; and the other parties signing in their own behalf: by which it was agreed that John A. Gardner and Benjamin F. Thurston, the former of whom had been counsel for
Amasa Sprague and William Sprague, and the latter counsel
of Mary and Byron Sprague, should be, and they were, appointed referees to examine into the entire assets and property
of the firm, and to ascertain the value thereof, and each party's
interest therein, and should make report of the result. The
referees accordingly made such examination, and made their
report on the first day of July, 1865, by which they reported
and found that the cash value of the entire estate, exclusive
of the Quidnick factory (which was estimated by itself, and
was transferred to a separate corporation), was $6,782,906 69
That there were liabilities to amount of .

.

2,871,921 79

Leaving the net value of the estate equal to . .

3,860,984 90

. .

[Sup. CL,

HOYT V. SPRAGUE.

And after adjusting the accounts of the parties they found Mary Sprague's interest was. . . ......
Fanny Sprague's interest ...
.......
.
William Sprague's interest . . . . .
.
Amasa Sprague's interest ...
..........
.
Mary Sprague, guardian of the children of Susan
Hoyt ......
................
.
Due to Mary Sprague, as administratrix of her husband, on account of a dividend ......
.
Making a total of ...

..........

.

.

624,984
625,511
978,867
978,867

69
69
42
42

652,753 68
164,250 26

4,025,235 16

This amount formed the capital stock of the corporation
subsequently organized, and was represented by the nominal
capital of $1,000,000, making each share equal to over $402.
The proportions of William and Amasa were larger than the
others, because they had purchased the share of Byron.
The referees also found due from the firm to Mary Sprague,
as guardian of the Hoyt children, the sum of $188,333.33, explained to have been a balance credited to them to equal what
the two families in Rhode Island had drawn out of the concern
for current expenses.
The Quidnick property, which, as before stated, was kept
separate from the rest on account of other persons being interested therein, was appraised in the same way as the A. &
W. Sprague property, for the purpose of being transferred to a
distinct corporation. The interest of the Hoyt children therein
was appraised at $63,353.23.
The appraisement having been completed, Mary Sprague, as
guardian of the Hoyt children, on the 5th of August, 1865,
after advertising her intent so to do, presented her bond to the
Probate Court of Warwick for approval, as required by the
joint resolution of March 9, 1863, and prayed authority from
the court to transfer the interest of her wards to the A. & W.
Sprague Manufacturing Company, as authorized by said resolution; and also prayed like authority to transfer the interest
of the minors in the Quidnick property to the Quidnick Manufacturing Company.
A decree was made granting the prayers of the petition and
conferring the powers desired.

Oct. 1880.J

HOYT v.

SPRAGUE.

Thereupon, on the ninth day of August, 1865, all the parties
m interest joined in a conveyance of the entire partnership
property of the firm of A. & W. Sprague to the A. & W.
Sprague Manufacturing Company; and the property of the
Quidnick firm to the Quidnick Manufacturing Company; and
each party became entitled to their several proportions of the
shares of capital stock in those companies respectively. In executing the deed of conveyance Mary Sprague signed in her
individual capacity, as administratrix of her husband's estate,
and as guardian of the Hoyt children.
In the August Term, 1866, of the Probate Court of Warwick, appraisers were appointed to take an inventory and
appraisement of the property of the several wards of Mary
Sprague in her hands, and they performed their duty, and said
inventories, verified by the oath of Mary Sprague, were filed
and recorded, after being passed upon by the court. They
amounted to the sum of $251,447.08 each. That of William
S. Hoyt was composed of the following items, namely: 122 shares Nat. B'k of Commerce ...........
1 U. S. 6-per-cent bond ...
...........
2 N. Y., Prov., & Boston R. R. bond, $950

.$6,222
00
.
108 09
. ...

489 shares A. & W. Sprague Ff" Co., 402, 5,225
123 shares Quidnick Co. stock, 155, 213 ......
Cash .....
..................

1,900 00
.

.

176,707 82
19,091 20
334 23

$204,363 75
Dividend due from A. & W. Sprague as cash, March 31,
1865, with interest from that date .
......
.47,083
33
$251,447 08
The others were nearly identical with this.
The dividend of $47,088.33 was William S. Hoyt's onefourth part of the sum of $188,383.33 awarded to the Hoyt
children as an offset to the sums drawn out by the Rhode Island
families for current expenses.
At the same term Mary Sprague presented an account as
guardian of each ward, which being verified, and due notice
having been published, was received and allowed by the courm
and ordered to be recorded.

[Sup. ot,

HOYT v. SPRAGUE.

Sarah Hoyt having now arrived at full age, received the
amount of her interest and gave an acquittance for the same.
At the same term of the court, on the petition of Mary
Sprague, and her resignation of the guardianship of the three
remaining minors, and on the written application of Edwin
Hoyt, and due notice given, Mary Sprague was discharged
from the guardianship, and William Sprague was appointed
guardian in her stead. The same appraisers were appointed
to make an inventory and appraisement of the property of each
ward in the hands of William Sprague, guardian; and such inventory and appraisement were duly made, filed, and recorded;
showing that the estate of William S. Hoyt amounted, on the
first day of September, 1866, to the sum of $255,885.04, consisting of the items before mentioned, with the addition of
another dividend of the companies.
The estate of Susan S. Hoyt amounted to about the same
sum.
Susan S. Hoyt came of age in October, 1866, and William S.
Hoyt in January, 1868; and Susan married Charles G. Francklyn in 1869.
The evidence in the case exhibits several annual accounts
rendered by William Sprague, as guardian to the complainant
W. S. Hoyt, after he came of age, in 1870, 1871, 1872, and
1878. These accounts show on the credit side the money
due and accruing to the complainant, including the sum of
$47,083.83 before mentioned, and the dividends made from tijne
to time on the stocks of the A. & W. Sprague Manufacturing
Company, the Quidnick Manufacturing Company, and on the
bank and other stocks in the guardian's hands. On the debit
side they show the moneys drawn by and paid to the complainant, amounting, from the date of Mr. Sprague's appointment as
guardian in 1866, to Oct. 31, 1870, to the sum of $5,282.45: thence to Oct., 1871 ..........
to Oct., 1872 ..........
to Oct., 1873 ..........

.
.
...

$8,606 72
18,500 00
5,000 00

Leaving a balance still in the guardian's hands of $63,905.18,
besides the stocks and bonds forming the corpus of the estate
in ward.

Oct. 1880.]

HOYT V. SPRAGUE.

William S. Hoyt, some time in 1878, received his stocks
and interest in the Quidnick Company, and makes no corn
plaint in regard to the same.
A number of letters of the complainant, asking for, and acknowledging the receipt of, money from his guardian, after
coming of age, were put in evidence. One of these, dated Nov.
9, 1870, was directed to Mr. Greene, book-keeper of the A. & W.
Sprague Manufacturing Company, asking for a memorandum
of the bank stock, shares, and whatever there might be belonging to him. In his testimony the complainant states that this
information was furnished to him. A similar statement had
been furnished to Mrs. Francklyn in March of the same year;
and annual accounts were rendered to her from October, 1869,
to October, 1873.
In the fall of 1873, Hoyt, Spragues, & -Co. and the A. & W.
Sprague Manufacturing Company suspended payment, and the
latter, by deed of assignment dated Nov. 1, 1878, assigned to
Zechariah Chafee all its property, in trust for the benefit of
creditors, -in which deed Amasa and William Sprague, and
Fanny and Mary Sprague also joined. In April, 1874, a more
full assignment was made.
The bills in this case were filed in June and July, 1875, and
their general object has already been stated. They respectively
state most of the facts of which the foregoing is an outline;
but interlarded with reiterated charges of fraudulent design
and concealment on the part of the Spragues: whereby, as is
alleged, the complainants were kept in ignorance of their
rights and of the state of their property, and the transformations
under which it went, until shortly before the filing of the bill.
The defendants severally answered the bills, denying all
fraudulent motives and any intentional concealment; averring
that they acted according to their best judgment as to what
was for the interest of all the parties interested in the estate;
insisting upon the legal validity of their proceedings respectively, and especially of the transfer of the minors' interest to
the corporations; setting up the laches and acquiescence of the
complainants; and pleading the Statute of Limitations to the
relief sought by the bill.
The first question to be determined is, the nature of tile

HoYT

v. SPRAGUE.

[Sup. t

complainant's rights, with regard to the partnership effects of
A. & W. Sprague in 1865, at the time when the property was
transferred to the A. & W. Sprague Mauufacturing Company.
At the death of William Sprague, Sen., in 1856, there is
no doubt that each party in interest was entitled to call for a
liquidation and settlement of the partnership affairs and a division of the surplus property, and had a lien on the entire property and effects for that purpose. In the real estate and corporal
chattels they were tenants in common with the surviving partners, and over the entire property including the credits and
other assets they had the lien referred to, which they had a
right to enforce at once if the surviving partners refused to
make a settlement. These partners had the right of possession, and, in the choses in action, the right of property, to
enable them to settle up the concern. But these rights of survivorship were subordinate to the lien of those beneficially
interested, who thereby had a right to enforce the due appropriation of the partnership effects.
But who were the parties beneficially interested in this case?
Primarily, the personal representatives of Amasa Sprague,
Sen., and William Sprague, Sen.; namely, the two widows,
Fanny Sprague and Mary Sprague, administratrixes respectively of the estates of Amasa and William. The ultimate
beneficiaries could only reach the property through them. If
they abused their trust they would be liable to their respective
cestuis que trust. They had the power, if they saw fit, unless
restrained by their beneficiaries, to allow the estates of their
deceased intestates to be continued in the business of the
partnership; and if it was continued by their allowance and
consent, the property became liable to the partnership debts
subsequently incurred as well as to prior debts; but with this
qualification, that the property which remained unchanged
was still subject to the partnership lien in preference to afterincurred debts; whilst new property which, in the course of
business, took the place of the old, was not subject to said lien
in preference to such debts.
This seems to be the result of the cases, though they are
apparently somewhat in conflict. A cursory reading of the
opinion in Skipp Y. ifarwood (174.7), (2 Swans. 586), and Lord

Oct. 1880.]

HOYT v.

SPRAGUE.

Hardwicke's opinion in the same case on appeal, West v. Skpp
(1 Yes. Sen. 239), and the opinions in Stoeken, v. Dawson
(9 Beav. 239), and same case on appeal (17 Law J. Ch. 282),
would lead to the conclusion that the executor's lien in such
cases attaches to the whole property, as well that newly acquired
as that which remains of what was in existence at the testator's
or intestate's decease. But this is inconsistent with the decisions in .Yerot v. Burnand (4 Russ. 247) and Payne v. Hornby
(25 Beav. 280; s. c. 4 Jur. N. s. 446), which hold that where
the business is carried on with the consent of the outgoing partner, or the representative of the deceased partner, debts incurred
during that period have a preference over the partnership lien
upon all newly acquired property. A comparison of the cases
will show that the rule laid down by Lords Hardwicke and
Cottenham in West v. Skipp and Stoc.en v. Dawson was applied by them to cases in which the property of the retiring or
deceased partner was used in the business against the will,
or without the consent, of the persons entitled thereto. The
law is laid down with much accuracy in the last edition of
Lindley on Partnership, pp. 700-702, where it is said: "Whilst
the partnership lasts, the lien attaches to everything that can
be considered partnership property, and is not therefore lost
by the substitution of new stock for old. Further, on the death
or bankruptcy of a partner, his lien continues in favor of his
representatives or assignees, and does not terminate until his
share has been ascertained and provided for by the other
partners. But after the partnership is dissolved, the lien is
confined to what was partnership property at the time of the
dissolution, and does not extend to what may have been subsequently acquired by the persons who continue to carry on
the business."
Sir John Romilly, in giving judgment in Payne v. ffornby,
cited above, after admitting that, by a mortgage of his stock in
trade, a man might bind after-acquired property (as to which
see Hotoud v. Alarshall (10 H. L. Cas. 191), said: "But on
the death of a partner the case is altogether different. There
is, as Lord Eldon very accurately expresses it, 'a quasi lien;'
there is, in point of fact, only a right to the specific property.
The executors of the deceased partner are joint tenants with
VOL. XIII

40

HOYT V. SPRAGUE.

[Sup. Ct.

the surviving partners, and accordingly they are entitled to
require the surviving partners to do one of two things,- either
to wind up the partnership business at once, or to fix the value
of the testator's property and secure payment of the amount ...
If the executors do not apply for a receiver, but simply file a
bill for the winding up of the partnership, I apprehend that the
new stock which has been acquired during the time that the
business has been carried on by the surviving partner belongs,
in the first place, to the creditors who have been created by
such subsequent dealings, and not to the creditors of the old
partnership; and that it is the duty of the executors, if they
wish to prevent any dealings with the stock, to come at once to
this court for the appointment of a receiver; otherwise they,
in fact, sanction the commission of a fraud, by leading the subsequent creditors to believe that they are dealing with a person
who is liable out of his stock in trade to discharge their debts."
4 Jur. x. s. 446.
These remarks of the Master of the Rolls have respect to the
rights of creditors. As between the surviving partners themselves and the representatives of the deceased partner, the lien
of the latter will extend to after-acquired property resulting
from the employment of the partnership stock, so as to entitle
them, at their option, either to demand a share of the profits, or
interest on the value of the decedent's share at the .time of his
death; unless the transactions between them have been such
as to indicate a sale of the deceased partner's share to the survivors. A sale, however, can hardly be inferred where no steps
have been taken to ascertain the value of the share.
Recurring now to the circumstances of the case before us
and the proceedings of the parties, we find that the legal representatives of the deceased partners, and all the beneficiaries of
the two estates who were in law capable of acting, entirely
acquiesced in, and consented to, the continued employment of
the partnership property in the business of the partnership
subsequently carried on by the surviving partners; and this
state of things continued for the eight or nine years that in
tervened between the death of William Sprague, Sen., and
the transfer of the property to the corporations. And as to
the share of the Hoyt children, it was not only coinsented

Oct. 1880.]

HOYT V. SPRAGUE.

to by Mary Sprague as administratrix of her deceased husband's estate, but as guardian of the property of the said
,-hildren.
It seems to have been an understood thing between all the
parties, from the beginning, that, without any formal settlement
of the estates of Amasa and William Sprague, Sen., the several beneficiaries entitled to distribution should be and were
considered as interested in the common partnership property in
the proportional amount of their beneficial interest. The active
partners represented their own respective shares. Mary Sprague
as administratrix and as guardian of the Hoyt children represented her own share and theirs. It is objected to her that she
omitted to file any inventory or account; but as there was no
difficulty or dispute between the parties in interest as to the
extent of the several shares, there was no imperative necessity
of presenting accounts to the Probate Court as long as it was
deemed expedient to continue all the property in the joint
business. An inventory could settle nothing, because the property in which all were equally interested was constantly changing, and an account would have had no practical value, because
no immediate settlement of the estate was proposed. The cardinal question, so far as these cases are concerned, was that
which related to continuing the shares of the minors in the
concern, and keeping the property together. Conceding that
to have been the proper course to take, the omission on the part
of Mary Sprague to exhibit the accounts prescribed by statute
cannot be regarded in the same light as it would have been if
she had had possession of the property and was devoting it to
her own use. It may have been unwise, but, under the circum.
stances, it can furnish no evidence of want of good faith, oi
a desire to do other than the best that could be done for the
interests of her grandchildren and wards.
And as to the question of fraud, we may at once state, that
we entirely agree with the court below, that the case furnishes
no evidence to sustain that charge, either as against Mary
Sprague or any of the other parties concerned. They may have
judged unwisely, but we see no ground for believing that they
were actuated by any desir- to cheat or defraud the children
of Susan Hoyt out of anything that justly belnged to them.

HOYT

V. SPRAGUE.

[Sup. GtL

We are sure that such a thought could not be attributed to
their grandmother, and we have no evidence to believe that it
was ever entertained by Amasa Sprague or William Sprague.
We must regard the decision of Mrs. Sprague, and of Edwin
Hoyt, the father, to keep the property of the children in the
concern, as an error of judgment only, rather than as the result
of any design or intent to defraud. We may well conceive
that the supposed wishes of William Sprague, Sen., who by his
energy and talent had created the estate, and who had persistently kept it together as a common property for the equal benefit of his brother's family and himself, had great weight with
Mrs. Sprague and her son-in-law, as well as with the surviving
partners, in leading them to adopt the conclusion they did.
And for many years the result seemed to justify the conclusion
to which they came.
But whatever may have been the responsibility which Mary
Sprague, as administratrix and guardian assumed, it cannot be
doubted that she had the power to keep the property in the
business, for it was subject to her disposal. And as it was kept
in the business by her consent and allowance, she ceased to
have a lien upon the property as against subsequent creditors of
the concern. And, as she in her representative capacity ceased
to hava such lien, it is difficult to see how the minors themselves, when they arrived at full age, could have any such lien,
whatever remedy they may have had against Mary Sprague.
If the ultimate beneficiaries of a deceased partner's estate could
thus revive a lien which has become extinguished as against
creditors, there would be little safety in dealing with commercial partnerships, in which any partner has ever died.
This consideration is conclusive against the claim made by
the bills to be paid out of the assets in the hands of Chafee,
the trustee, in preference to, or even paripassu with, the creditors of the corporation. For where the representative of a
deceased partner allows the interest of his decedent to be used
in the business by the surviving partner, and thereby loses his
lien upon the partnership property, he does not thereby become
a creditor of the new firm, and cannot come into concourse with
the creditors thereof; but the property of the firm is first subject to the claims of such creditors, and after they are satisfied

Wc.1880.]

HOYT v. SPRAGUE.

the representative's right to have an account against the sur
viving partner remains as before.
But whilst the rights of creditors are thus protected against
the lien of a deceased partner's representatives, who have consented to the continuance of the business without a settlement,
the beneficiaries standing behind those representatives are entitled to call them to an account for the manner in which they
have dealt with the estate. And where, as in this case, they
depart from the ordinary mode prescribed by law, and expose
the property to the hazards of trade, they run the risk of making themselves answerable for any loss that may occur. In the
present case, however, we have no evidence that loss occurred
during the period under consideration. The estimated cash
value of the minors' share of the property on the 31st of
March, 1865, as appeared by the appraisement then made,
652,753 68
was ........-.......
Allowance to offset family expenses of the other
188,333 33
.............
parties ....
Interest in Quidnick property, including E.
116,112 93
.
Hoyt's curtesy .........
Total

..........

.

$957,206 94

As gold was then 150, the specie value of this total would be
$638,137.96. No satisfactory proof has been adduced to show
that this amount was not fully equal to what the interest of the
minors ought to have been in view of the value of the estate in
1856, at the time of William Sprague, Sen.'s, decease.
Up to the time of organizing the corporations, therefore, and
the transfer of the property thereto, we have no evidence that
any loss, or diminution of value, had occurred.
Still, if the matter stood there, the defendants, or at least
Mary Sprague, might be called upon to render an account, and
to show by affirmative proof that all the property which came
into her hands as administratrix, or guardian, for the use and
benefit of her daughter Susan's children, was forthcoming and
ready to be paid over to them. It is necessary, therefore, to
take into view what occurred in 1865 and afterwards, in relation to the disposition made of the property to the corporations
before referred to, and to the conduct of the complainants after

-HOYT V. SPRAGUE.

[Sup. Ot.

coming of age, in order to determine whether they are entitled
to any portion of the relief sought by the bills.
It is contended by the defendants that the authority given
to Mary Sprague, as guardian of the Hoyt children, by the
joint resolution of 1863, to transfer all the property of hei
wards to the corporations indicated, was a complete justification
for her acts in that behalf; and releases her from all further
obligation except that of accounting for the shares of capitao
stock received therefor and any dividends accruing thereon
whilst in her possession.
It is contended by the defendants, secondly, that the corn
plainants, after coming of age, had so long acquiesced in the
arrangements made in 1865, before bringing suit or taking any
steps to set them aside, that they are now precluded by their
own laches and by the lapse of time from having the relief
which they seek.
As to the first point, it seems to be beyond doubt, that if the
legislature had the power to pass the resolution referred to, it
was a complete authority and justification for the conveyance
by Mrs. Sprague of the interests of her wards to the corporations mentioned. The resolution itself is sufficiently broad to
give the requisite authority. The question is as to the legislative power.
With regard to the general legislative power of a State to
act upon persons and property within the limits of its own
territory there can be no doubt. Mr. Justice Story lays down
three fundamental rules on the subject of private international
law, the first of which is expressed thus: "I. The first and
most general maxim or proposition is that which has been
already adverted to, that every nation possesses an exclusive
sovereignty and jurisdiction within its own territory." And he
adds, "The direct consequence of this rule is, that the laws of
every State affect and bind directly all property, whether real
or personal, within its territory, and all persons who are resident within it, whether natural-born subjects or aliens, and
also all contracts made and acts done within it." The second
rule declares that no State or nation can, by its laws, directly
affect or bind property out of its own territory, or persons noi
resident therein. The third is, that whatever force and obliga.

Oct. 1880.]

HOYT V. SPRAGUE.

tion the laws of one country have in another, depend solely
upon the laws of the latter, that is, upon the comity exercised
by it. Story, Conflict of Laws, sects. 18-23.
One of the ordinary rules of comity exercised by some European States is, to acknowledge the authority and power of foreign
guardians, that is, guardians of minors and others appointed
under the laws of their domicile in other States. But this rule
of comity does not prevail to the same extent in England and
the United States. In regard to real estate it is entirely disallowed; and is rarely admitted in regard to personal property.
Justice Story, speaking of a decision which favored the exterritorial power of a guardian in reference to personal property, says: "It has certainly not received any sanction in
America, in the States acting under the jurisprudence of the
common law. The rights and powers of guardians are considered as strictly local; and not as entitling them to exercise any
authority over the person or personal property of their wards
in other States, upon the same general reasoning and policy
which have circumscribed the rights and authorities of executors and administrators." Story, Confl. Laws, sects. 499, 504,
504 a. And see Wharton, Confl. Laws, sects. 259-268, 2d ed.;
3 Burge, Colon. and For. Laws, 1011. And some of those
foreign jurists who contend most strongly for the general application of the ward's lex dornieiliiadmit that, when it comes
to the alienation of foreign assets, an exception is to be made
in favor of the jurisdiction within which the property is situate,
for the reason that this concerns the ward's property, and not
his person. Wharton, sects. 267, 268.
But whilst the English and American law require a guardianship where the property is situated, it is conceded, that,
in the due exercise of comity, preference would ordinarily be
given to the person already clothed with the authority of guardian in the minor's own country. Phillimore, vol. iv. 381;
Wharton, sect. 266. In the case before us it does not appear
that the minors had any other guardian in New York than
their natural guardian, Edwin Hoyt, who applied for the appointment of Mary Sprague as guardian of their estate in
Rhode Island.
As the question before us is one of power and not of comity,

HOYT V. bPRAGUE.

[Sup. Ct.

we think there can be no doubt that the legislature of Rhode
Island, where the property was situate, had power, first, to pass
laws for the appointment of guardians of the property of nonresident infants, situate in that State; and, secondly, it had
power to prescribe the manner in which such guardians shall
perform their duties as regards the care, management, investment, and disposal of such property; and that this power is
as full and complete as where the minors are domiciled in the
State.
Not only did the power exist, but we find that it was exercised. The laws of Rhode Island gave explicit power to the
Probate Court to appoint a guardian of the property of nonresident infants. The act of Oct. 31, 1844, declared that "the
courts of probate of the several towns are hereby authorized
and empowered to appoint guardians, when occasion shall require, over the property or estate of persons who reside out of
the State and possess property therein." The previous act of
Jan. 6, 1837, had authorized the same courts, in case of incapacity of parents of any minors, or for other sufficient cause, to
appoint a guardian of the property of such minors, without
connecting therewith the guardianship of such minors' persons.
There is no force in the objection made to these laws, that
they give chancery powers to the Probate Court, contrary, as
contended, to sect. 2 of art. 10 of the Constitution of Rhode
Island adopted in 1843, which says: "Chancery powers may
be conferred on the Supreme Court, but on no other court to
any greater extent than is now provided by law." The answer
to this objection is obvious. The appointment of guardians is
not, and never has been, peculiarly a chancery power. Guardians at common law became such by their relation to the
minor, without any judicial appointment. Guardians were also
appointed by testament by the father of any minor from time
immemorial in the province of York, and on failure to thus
appoint, the ordinary had the power of appointment. Swinburne on Wills, 282. In this country the power to appoint
guardians and to pass upon their accounts has generally by
statute been conferred upon the probate courts. In Rhode
Island the power was exercised by these courts long before the
Constitution of 1843 was adopted.

Oct.1880.]

HOYT

. SPRAGUE.

Assuming, then, that the Probate Court had the power to
make the appointment, we have been unable to see anything
informal or improper in the appointment of Mary Sprague as
the guardian of her infant grandchildren. The petition for
her appointment was made by the most suitable persons in the
world,- their father, Edwin Hoyt, and Byron Sprague, their
mother's only brother.
It is true, as suggested, that the duties of Mary Sprague as
administratrix might clash with her duties as guardian ; but
this was not a necessary consequence. The same person is
often appointed executor of a will and guardian of the testator's
children. It is seldom that any practical difficulty arises from
the joinder of the two capacities. We do not perceive that
their joinder in the present case had, or was likely to have, any
deleterious effect upon the interests of the infants concerned.
At all events, it did not avoid or vitiate the appointment.
The guardian having been duly appointed, and no deterioration of the estate being shown prior to the conveyance to the
corporations, the next inquiry relates to the authority for mak
ing such conveyance, given by the joint resolution of 1863. As
already intimated, it cannot be doubted that the legislative
power extends to the regulation of the investments and the
management of minors' estates by their guardians. The legislature certainly might, if it saw fit, pass a general law authorizing a guardian to invest the property of his ward in the
capital stock of a corporation engaged in manufacturing, trading, or financial operations, or in a particular class of operations, as banking, insurance, or any other that might be
specified. Usually, such authority, if given, would be required
to be exercised under the allowance and supervision of a court;
but that would be a matter of legislative discretion. That
such an authority could be conferred by law there can be no
doubt. Analogous powers have been conferred from time im,memorial.
But it is objected that the resolution of March 9, 1863, under
which the guardian in this case derived her authority to make
the investment under consideration, was not a legislative, but
a judicial act, and beyond the legislative power.
The 9nly provision in the Constitution of Rhode Island which

HOYT

V. SPRAGUE.

[Sup. (it.

bears upon this question is the usual one which distributes the
powers of government into three departments, legislative, executive, and judicial, and assigns to each the powers appropriate to it. Thus, "The legislative power shall be vested in
two Houses," &c. "The judicial power shall be vested in one
Supreme Court, and in such inferior courts as the Gpneral
Assembly may, from time to time, ordain and establish."
The question of the power of a legislature, when not restrained by a specific constitutional provision, to pass special
laws, has been much mooted in the courts of this country; and
it would, subserve no useful purpose to go over the whole
ground of controversy on this occasion. Suffice it to say, that
laws of this character, for the purpose of healing defects,
giving relief, aid, and authority in cases beyond the force of
existing law, have been frequently passed in almost every State
in the Union, and have received the sanction not only of this
court, but of other courts of high authority. The exercise of
this power has been most conspicuous in that class of cases in
which the legislature has been called upon to act as parens
patrie on behalf of lunatics, minors, and other incapacitated
persons. Laws authorizing the sale of the estates of such persons have frequently been passed, and have been upheld as
fairly within the legislative power. The passage of such laws
is not the exercise of judicial power, although by general laws
the discretion to pass upon such cases might be confided to the
courts. But when it is not confided to the courts, the power
exercised is of a legislative character, the legislature making a
law for the particular case. In some modern constitutions the
exercise of this power has been prohibited to the legislative
department. But where not so prohibited, and where it has
never been authoritatively condemned in the jurisprudence of
the State, we cannot deny to the legislature the right to exercise it in those cases in which it has been accustomed to be
exercised, amongst which we think the present case may be
fairly reckoned. Such laws are not judgments upon any person's rights, but they confer powers upon the exercise of which
judgment may afterwards be given.
The only cases in Rhode Island decided since the adoption
of the Constitution of 1843. which have been cited as having a

Oct. 1880.]

O OYT V. SPRAGUE.

bearing on the subject, are Taylor v. Place, 4 R. I. 324, and
Tkurston v. 7u'ston, 6 id. 296. The general conclusion to
be derived from these cases is favorable to the view we have
taken.
In the first of these cases, the legislature having passed a
vote for opening a judgment, allowing new affidavits to be filed
on the ground of accident and mistake, setting aside a verdict
and granting a new trial, the court very properly held this to
be an exercise of judicial power, and declared the vote to be
void. But they distinguished the case from those laws passed
to confer special powers upon executors, &c.; as in Watkins
v. Hobnan (16 Pet. 25), where an act authorizing an administratrix residing in another State to sell land in Alabama for
the purpose of paying debts was held by this court to be within
the legislative power and valid. In the other case cited
(T7urstor v. Thueston), the court held that it was beyond the
power of the Court of Chancery in that particular case to
decree a sale of infants' lands; that the power, if possessed by
any court, was vested by statute in the Probate Court; but
added: "If a case should arise within the spirit, though not
within the letter, of such or a similar statute, a special authority to a trustee to convert the real estate of his infant, lunatic,
or otherwise incapable cestul, would seem to partake, as intimated by this court in Taylor v. Place, more of a legislative
than of a judicial character, and would be, having been long
exercised and not prohibited by the Constitution, within the
constitutional competence of the General Assembly. Watkins
v. Hloltnan, 16 Pet. 25; Davis v. Johonnot, 7 Met. 888; Snowhdll v. Saowhill, 2 Green, Ch. 20; Norris v. Clymer, 2 Barr,
277; ,Spotswood v. Pendleton, 4 Call, 514; Dorsey v. G-ilbert,
11 Gill & Johns. 87." This is certainly a very clear intimation of the constitutionality of the class of laws to which that
now under consideration belongs.
But another objection made to the validity of the joint resolution is that it was not in proper form, in not being preceded
by the proper enacting clause. The Constitution declares that
the style of the laws shall be: "It is enacted by the General
Assembly as follows." If this requirement is anything more
than directory, it cannot be decreed to apply to that species of

HOYT V. SPRAGUE.

[Sup. Ct.

enactments which are usually denominated joint resolutions,
and which are often used to express the legislative will in cases
not requiring a general law. The practice of the Congress of
the United States, and of almost every legislative body in the
country, may be adduced to show that a resolution of the nature now under consideration could not have been within the
intent of the provision referred to.
It is unnecessary to e:ter upon a particular review of the
proceedings taken by the parties to effect a transfer of the partnership estate to the corporations chartered for that purpose.
We have given them our careful attention, and are satisfied
that they were substantially regulai. We have no doubt of
the guardian's power to submit to referees the ascertainment
of the value of the minors' interest in the property; nor of the
binding effect of the award made by the referees. Our conclusion is that the guardian, Mrs. Mary Sprague, had full
power and authority to invest the said interest in the capital
stocks of the corporations referred to; and that having done so,
she was no further answerable therefor, but only answerable
for the shares of capital stock and the dividends realized thereon, respecting which we do not understand that any complaint
is made.
But aside from the legality and binding effect of the proceedings for investing the minors' interest, as here stated, the
acquiescence of the complainants, after they came of age,
effectually precludes them from obtaining the relief sought by
their respective bills. The bills were not filed until June and
July, 1875, in the one case nearly nine years, and in the other
more than seven years after the minors became suijurs,and
could have known, if they did not know, the exact position and
history of their property. Notwithstanding all the asseverations to the contrary, the evidence fails to show that they were
not allowed every opportunity of which they chose to avail
themselves of obtaining this knowledge. And the fact is clearly
demonstrated that they did have sufficient knowledge to leave
them without any excuse for lying by and giving no sign of
dissatisfaction. For several years they received regular annual
accounts. These accounts showed the character of the prop
erty, and in what it consisted. It further appears that in 1870

Get. 1880.]

WILLIAMS

v. LOUISIANA.

each of the complainants received from the book-keeper in
Rhode Island a list of all the stocks and securities in which
they were respectively interested. It also appears that they
accepted the stock of the Quidnick Company, and they make
no complaint of that part of the settlement.
Without further discussion, it suffices to say, that the complainants came into the court too late to obtain relief, even if
when they came of age they could have justly complained of
the conversion of their property into the stock of the corporations. In such cases, it is not merely a question as to what
information respecting their rights parties do actually obtain ;
but as to what information they might have obtained had they
used the means and opportunities directly at their command.
Others, acting in good faith, also have rights; the world must
move; and it is the interest of the community that controversies should have an end.
Dearees affirmed.

WILLIAMS v. LouiriNA.
In a suit brought, in one of her courts, by the State of Louisiana, seeking to
restrain payment on the bonds issued to the New Orleans, Mobile, and Chattanooga railroad Company, under an act of the legislature approved April
20, 1871, and praying for relief, upon the ground that the act was in violation of the constitutional amendment of 1870, which declares "that, prior to
the first day of January, 1890, the debt of the State shall not be so increased
as to exceed twenty-five millions of dollars," which limit, it was claimed, had
been attained before the passage of the act, a holder of some of the bonds,
who was permitted to intervene, set up that they were issued in discharge and

release of valid and then subsisting obligations of the State, which, prior to
the adoption of the amendment, had been created under her legislation.

Hfd, that this court has jurisdiction to determine whether the amendment,
as construed by the court below and applied to the facts of the case, impairs
the obligation of a contract. Held, further, that the act is in conflict with

that amendment, inasmuch as it authorized the creation of a new debt on a
new consideration, in excess of the prescribed amount, and that the bonds are
void.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

