[Sup. Ct.

THE " RICHIOND."

MR. JUSTIE SwAYNE and MR.JUSTICE STRONG partici-

pated in the decision of this case in conference before their
retirement, and we are authorized to say that they concur in

this opinion and judgment.

Judgment affirned.

NOm. - County of Tipton v. Norton and County of Tipton v. Edmunds,error from
the same court, were argued at the same time by the same counsel as the
preceding case, and, upon its authority, the judgments therein rendered were
affirmed.

THE " RicE'moND."
1. Where in a case in admiralty the decree below, determining the liability of
the respective vessels in a collision, was rendered before the act of Feb. 16,
1875, c. 77 (18 Stat., pt. 3, p. 315), took effect, this court, the case being
properly here on appeal, will re-examine the evidence, and, if the appellant
does not show that in the concurring action of the courts below error wag
committed to his prejudice, the decree will be affirmed.
2 Where, after such a decree, and the taking effect of that act, the ascertainment of the amount of damages sustained by the vessel not in fault
was referred to a master, the action of the Circuit Court upon exceptions
to his report, all of which relate to questions of fact, will not be reviewed
here.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

District of Louisiana.
This was a libel filed by Shirley and others, owners of the
steamboat "Sabine."
They allege, in substance, that between
two and three o'clock of the morning of Feb. 11, 1872, while
she was descending the Mississippi River about twelve miles
above New Orleans, the steamer "Richmond"

ran into and

sunk her; that the collision was owing entirely to the gross
and culpable negligence of the officers and pilot of the "Richmond;" and that the libellants suffered damages to the sum

of $37,500.
The owners of the "Richmond"

flied an answer and cross-

libel, claiming $12,000 damages.
The Merchants' Mutual Insurance Company filed its libel
igainst the "Richmond"

and the "Sabine,"

alleging that it

