BABBITT V. CLARK.

[Sup. Ct.

to some extent navigated. The owner, too, had been awarded
and paid damages in money. So in Nelson v. Fleming, cupra,
the canal was completed and had been in actual use by the
public as such for a period of between thirty and forty years
before the abandonment occurred. In both these cases, accord
ing to the rule that has been stated, the compensation was actually made and the title passed. There the question was one of
reversion after title once acquired. Here, as we think, the
State never got title, since the requisite compensation was
never made. Consequently, the State had no title to this property to convey, and the railroad company took nothing by its
purchase. It follows that the decree below was right, and it is
Affirmed
consequently

BAiBBIT v. CLARK.
I. Under the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137 (18 Stat., pt. 3, p. 470), a writ of error
is the proper mode for reviewing here the order of the Circuit Court
remanding an action at law removed thereto from a State court, and it
lies without regard to the value of the matter in dispute.
2. The removal should not be granted, if the petition therefor be not filed in
the State court before or at the term at which the action could be first
tried, and before the trial thereof. Where, therefore, a cause, by the practice of the State court, stood for trial upon the issue raised by the petition
and answer, the rule-day having expired without filing a reply, and the
plaintiff then filed in the clerk's office a reply, without leave or notice, and
the cause was continued until the ensuing term, when, before the cause
was called for trial, the defendant presented his application for its removal,
- Held, that the application should not have been granted, and the order
of the Circuit Court remanding the cause was proper.

APPFAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Ohio.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. John C. Lee for the appellant.
Mr. Isaac C. Pugsley for the appellees.
MR. CH=EF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
This suit was brought by Parker P. Clark, George H. Clark

Oct. 1880.]

BABBITT v. CLARK.

607 '

Elijah F. Clark, and George P. Burnett, the appellees, citizens
of New York, in the Court of Common Pleas of Lucas County,
Ohio, against Albert T. Babbitt, the appellant, a citizen of
Wyoming Territory. By the statutes of Ohio regulating practice and pleadings in the courts of that State, a civil action is
commenced by filing a petition in the office of the clerk of the
propel court, and causing a summons to be issued thereon.
Rev. Stat., Ohio (1880), sect. 5035. The summons is ordinarly returnable the second Monday after its date. Id., sect.
5009. The only pleadings are, a petition, demurrer, answer,
and reply. Id., sect. 5059. The rule-day for the answer or
demurrer to a petition is the third Saturday, and for a reply to
the answer the fifth Saturday, after the return-day of the summons; but the court, or a judge thereof in vacation, may for
good cause shown extend the time. Id., sects. 5097, 5098.
Every material allegation of the petition not controverted by
the answer, and every material allegation of new matter in the
answer not controverted by the reply, is for the purposes of the
action to be taken as true, but the allegation of new matter
in the reply is deemed controverted by the adverse party.
Id., sect. 5081. When the action is founded on a written
instrument as evidence of indebtedness, a copy thereof must be
attached to and filed with the petition. Id., sect. 5085. A trial
is defined to be "a judicial examination of the issues, whether
of law or fact, in an action or proceeding." Id., sect. 5127.
And all actions are triable as soon as the issues therein, by the
time fixed for pleadings, are, or ought to have been, made up.
Id., sect. 5135.
The petition in this action was filed on the 28th of October,
1878, and alleged that on the 10th of June, 1878, the plaintiff
recovered judgment in the Court of Common Pleas of the City,
County, and State of New York, against Babbitt and one
Edgar A. Weed for $2,626.80 debt and costs, which was in full
force and unsatisfied, except "by the following payments, to
wit, one of $311.92, and a further payment of $887.50 made,
to wit, Oct. 1, 1878." Judgment was asked for the balance
which remained unpaid, and interest at seven per cent. From
the record of the New York suit found in the transcript sent
up on this appeal, it appears that the action in that court

•608

BABBITT V. CLARK.

[Sup. Ot.

was brought Aug. 7, 1877, to recover a debt for goods sold
Babbitt & Weed, Feb. 8, 1877, which it was alleged had
been created by the fraud of Babbitt. The answer, which was
by Babbitt alone, admitted that the debt had been contracted,
but denied the fraud. It then alleged by way of defence, that
on the 7th of July, 1877, proceedings in bankruptcy were
instituted against Babbitt and Weed in the District Court of
the United States for the Northern District of Ohio, which
resulted in the acceptance by the creditors of the bankrupts
and an approval by the court of a proposition for composition
under sect. 17 of the act of June 22, 1874, c. 390 (18 Stat., pt . 3,
p. 182), by which the bankrupts were to give their notes indorsed
by T. S. Babbitt to their several creditors for forty cents on the
dollar of their debts, divided into three equal parts, and payable in three, six, and nine months, respectively, from July 15,
1877, and that notes for the several amounts due the plaintiffs,
according to the terms of the composition, were executed and
tendered them in proper time, and ever since had been and
were subject to their order and disposal. Upon the issue thus
made a trial was had, which resulted in the judgment now
sued on.
The summons in the present action bears date Dec. 4, 1878,
and Jan. 4, 1879, at rules, Babbitt filed his answer, in which
he denied that the several payments credited on the judgment
in the petition were made by himself or Babbitt & Weed,
but averred that the item of $311.92 was collected by a sale of
property on execution, and that of $887.50 was paid the plain
tiffs by John R. Osborn, a register in bankruptcy. He then
set forth the proceedings in bankruptcy and the composition,
substantially as stated in his answer in the New York suit.
He then alleged that the composition notes intended for the
plaintiffs were paid to Osborn, the register in bankruptcy, as
they matured, and that on the 11th of September, 1878, the
plaintiffs took from the register the money in his hands for
them, with a full knowledge of all the facts.
The rule-day for a reply to this answer was Jan. 18, 1879,
but no reply was filed at that time, and no extension of time
was asked or given.
The cause, therefore, under the law regulating the practice

Oct. 1880.]

BABBITT

V. CLARK.

of the court, stood for trial on the issues presented by the petition and answer. A term of the court began on the 2d of
January, and did not end until the 7th of April, though nothing but formal business was done after March 24.
On the 3d of April the plaintiffs filed in the clerk's office a
reply without leave of the court, and without notice to Babbitt
or his counsel. In this reply the facts in relation to the New
York suit are set forth substantially as they appear on the
record sued on, and it was insisted that the acceptance of the
money from the register in bankruptcy did not operate in law
as a satisfaction of the judgment. The next term of the court
began on the 28th of April, and on the 3d of May the plaintiffs, also without leave of the court, filed an amendment to
their reply, in which they set out certain unsuccessful proceedings by Babbitt in the New York court on the 5th of July,
1878, to obtain an injunction against the further execution of
that judgment because of his payment of the composition notes
to the register in bankruptcy.
On the 17th of May, which was during the term of the court
that began on the 28th of April, and before the cause had ever
been called for trial, Babbitt filed his petition to remove the
suit to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern
District of Ohio, on the ground that his defence, "which was
made by answer filed in due time," was " one arising under
the Constitution and laws of the United States." The State
court ordered the suit transferred, but the Circuit Court on
motion remanded it because the petition for removal was not
filed in time. To reverse that order the case has been brought
here by appeal.
because an
It is insisted that we have no jurisdiction, -1,
order of a circuit court remanding a cause to a State court on
the ground that the petition for its removal from that court
had not been presented in time, is not reviewable here either
on writ of error or appeal ; 2, because, if reviewable at all, this
case should have been brought here by writ of error rather
than appeal; and, 3, because the value of the matter in dispute
does not exceed $5,000.
Before the act of 1875, c. 137 (18 Stat. 470), we held that
an order by the Circuit Court remanding a cause was not such
vol. X111.

39

BABBITT V. CLARK.

[Sup. Ct.

a final judgment or decree in a civil action as to give us jurisdiction for its review by writ of error or appeal. The appropriate remedy in such a case was then by mandamus to compel
the Circuit Court to hear and decide. Railroad Gompany v.
Wiswall, 28 Wall. 507; Insurance Company v. Comstock, 16 id.
258. But the fifth section of that act provides that if it satisfactorily appears to the Circuit Court that a suit has been
removed from a State court which dcs not really and substantially involve a controversy properly within the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court, it may be remanded, and the order to that
effect shall be reviewable by this court "on writ of error or
appeal, as the case may be."
The appellees contend that the right of appeal or writ of
error which is here given applies only to cases which are remanded because the subject-matter of the controversy is not
one within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court. The language
of the statute might be more explicit in this particular than it
is; but we think it may fairly be construed to include a case
where the Circuit Court decides that the controversy is not
properly within its jurisdiction, because the necessary steps
were not taken to get it away from a State court, where it was
rightfully pending. The right to remove a suit from a State
court to the Circuit Court of the United States is statutory,
and to effect a transfer of jurisdiction all the requirements of
the statute must be followed. If this is done, the controversy
is brought properly within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court,
and may be lawfully disposed of there; but if not, the rightful
jurisdiction continues in the State court. When, therefore,
the Circuit Court decides that a controversy has not been lawfully removed from a State court, and remands the suit on
that account, it in effect determines that the controversy involved is not properly within its own jurisdiction. The review
of such an adjudication is clearly contemplated by the act of
1875.
We think, also, this right of review has been given without
regard to the pecuniary value of the matter in dispute. There
is no pecuniary limit fixed to our jurisdiction in the act of 1875
itself. Final judgments and decrees in the circuit courts in
civil actions cannot ordinarily be brought here for review unlem

Oct. 1880.1

BABBITT V. CLARK.

the value of the matter in dispute exceeds $5,000 (Rev. Stat.,
sects. 691, 692; 18 Stat. 315, c. 77, sect. 3) ; but an order of
the Circuit Court remanding a removed suit to the State court
is in no just sense a final judgment or decree in the action. It
simply fixes the court in which the parties shall go on with
their litigation. Under the old law there was no pecuniary
limit to our jurisdiction to proceed in this class of cases by
mqiwvdamus, and we think it was the intention of Congress to
substitute appeals and writs of error for that mode of proceeding. If the new remedies are found to be productive of vexatious delays on account of the great accumulation of business
in this court, it will be easy for Congress to do away with the
evil by a repeal of the law. It follows that if the order in
question could properly be brought here by appeal, we have
jurisdiction.
Congress evidently intended that orders of this kind made in
suits at law should be brought here by writ of error, and that
where the suit was in equity an appeal should be taken. That
is the fair import of the phrase, "writ of error or appeal as the
ease may be." This was a suit at law, and consequently should
have been brought up by writ of error. There seems to have
been very little attention paid to this distinction heretofore,
and we now find that we have often considered cases on writ
of error that ought to have been presented by appeal, and on
appeal when the proper form of proceeding would have been
by writ of error. No objection was made, however, at the
time, and we did not ourselves notice the irregularity. Without deciding whether we would reverse the order of a circuit
court if objection were made when the case was brought up in
a wrong way, we are not inclined to delay a decision on the
merits in this case because of the irregularity which appears,
as we think the suit was properly remanded, and the order to
that effect should be affirmed.
The act of 1875 requires that the petition for removal shall
be filed in the State court at or before the term at which the
suit could be first tried and before the trial. The answer of
Babbitt in this case was filed in time, and the rule-day for a
reply expired on the 18th of January. Had the case been
called at any time after that date and before April 3, neither

BABBIT

V. CLARK.

[Sup. t

party could have objected to a trial on the pleadings as they
then stood. As no reply had been filed, the new facts set out
in the answer would have been taken as true, and the rights of
the parties determined accordingly. The case arising under
the Constitution and laws of the United States was presented
by the answer, and the right of Babbitt to his removal was as
apparent then as now. It needed no reply to put his case in a
condition for judicial examination. His answer required the
court to determine whether in law. with all the facts set out
and uncontroverted, his composition in bankruptcy presentea a
valid defence to the judgment sued on. The pleadings presented, to say the least, an issue of law to be tried.
It is true that after the court had substantially closed the
business of the term, and had stopped the trial of causes, a
reply was put on file without leave, which was supplemented
the next term, also without leave, and that in this way the
issues as they originally stood may have been to some extent
changed; but that does not, in our opinion, relieve Babbitt from
the consequences of his delay. The act of Congress does not
provide for the removal of a cause at the first term at which a
trial can be had on the issues, as finally settled by leave of
court or otherwise, but at the first term at which the cause, as
a cause, could be tried. Under sect. 12 of the act of 1789.
c. 20 (1 Stat. 79), the application for removal must have
been made by the defendant when he entered his appearance,
but under the acts of 1866, c. 288 (14 Stat. 306), and 1867,
c. 196 (id. 558), it might be effected at any time before trial.
This was the condition of existing legislation when the act
of 1875 was passed, and the language of that act shows
clearly a determination on the part of Congress to change
materially the time within which applications for removal
were to be made. It was more liberal than under the act
of 1789, but not so much so as in the later statutes. Under
the acts of 1866 and 1867 it was sufficient to move at any
time before actual trial, while under that of 1875 the election must be made at the first term in which the cause is in
law triable.
Clearly, under the laws of Ohio, this case was in a condition
for trial, and actually triable, more than two months before the

Oct. 1880.]

HOYT V. SPRAGUE.

613

January Term closed. It follows that the presentation of the
petition for removal at the next term was too late, and the order
of the Circuit Court remanding the cause on that account is
Afrmed
consequently

HoYT v. SPRAGUE.
FRANCKLYN V. SPRAGU-E.
1. If the executor of a deceased partner consents to the surviving partners con
tinuing the business with the assets of the firm, his lien on property thereafter acquired will be postponed to that of creditors, when a case arises for
an equitable marshalling of assets; as, where the surviving partners make
a general assignment for the benefit of creditors.
2. In such case, the beneficiaries of the deceased partner's estate cannot have
priority over the claims of creditors upon the partnership assets.
3. The property of nudnors, equally with that of adults, is subject to the /er rei
sit&, though the minors reside in another State or country. The local law
may provide for the guardianship of such property, and for its administration and investment. By comity only will anything be conceded to the
claims of the guardian of the domicile; although it is usual, by comity, to
appoint, if due application be made for that purpose, the same person
guardian who was appointed by the domiciliary court.
4. In the absence of constitutional restraint, the legislature may pass special
laws for the sale or investment of the estates of infants or other persons
who are not sujuris.
5. Where an executor and guardian in Rhode Island, by virtue of such a special
law, and by order of the Probate Court, conveyed the property of infants
to a manufacturing corporation, by way of investment in its capital stock,
-Held,
that the conveyance and investment were protected by the law,
and that no account could be demanded except for the stock and its dividends.
d Where minors were interested in a manufacturing establishment, as beneficiaries under a deceased partner, and the administrator, who was also
their guardian, without any fraud, but with entire good faith, allowed the
business to be continued by the surviving partners for several years, without filing any inventory or account; and the property suffered no deterioration, but increased in value, and was then, by virtue of a special law,
transferred to a corporation created for the purpose; and the beneficiaries,
after that, for more than seven years subsequently to coming of age,
received dividends on their share of the stock and annual stated accounts
-Hed, that, by reason of such acquiescence, they could not sustain a bill
In equity fo an account of the estate.

