Oct. 1880.]

THACHER'S DISTILLED SPIRITS.

As the bill of exceptions states that the facts on which the
case depends were proved, we cannot say that the admission in
evidence of samples of "similar" importations on which duties
had been paid at ten per cent could have prejudiced the collector's case. The question which the court decided was, that
the goods were not chinaware, but paintings.
Judgment affirmed.

THAoH

's DISTILLED SPIRITS.

1. The regulation prescribed by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, that
"whenever any rectifier proposes to empty any spirits, for the purpose of
rectifying, purifying, refining, redistilling, or compounding the same, he
will file with the collector a notice or statement giving the number of
casks or packages, the serial number of each, the number of wine and
proof gallons in each, the kind of stamps and serial numbers of each, the
particular name of such spirits as known to the trade, the proof, by whom
produced, the district where produced, by whom inspected, and the date of
inspection," is within the purview of the power conferred upon that officer
by sect. Z249 of the Revised Statutes, "to prescribe rules and regulations
to secure a uniform and correct inspection, weighing, marking, and gauging
of spirits."
2. The ruling that when an act works the forfeiture of goods, the right of the
government at once attaches to seize them whenever and wherever they
may be found and assert the forfeiture, reaffirmed. Henderson's Dstilled
Spirts, 14 Wall. 44, cited and approved.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Aomas Harland for the claimant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney- General Smith, contra.

MR,JUSTmCE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The case before us originated in an information filed in the
District Court for the Southern District of New York against
certain packages of distilled spirits by the district attorney, as
forfeited by reason of a violation of the regulations of the Corn-

TEACHER'S DISTILLED SPIRITS.

[Sup. Cot

missioner of Internal Revenue concerning the tax on distilled
spirits.
Sect. 3249 of the Revised Statutes authorizes that officer
"to prescribe rules and regulations to secure a uniform and
correct inspection, weighing, marking, and gauging of spirits."
One of the regulations established under this authority says
that "whenever any rectifier proposes to empty any spirits for
the purpose of rectifying, purifying, refining, redistilling, or
compounding the same, he will file with the collector a notice
or statement giving the number of casks or packages, the serial
number of each, the number of wine and proof gallons in each,
the kind of stamps and serial numbers of each, the particular
name of such spirits as known to the trade, the proof, by whom
produced, the district where produced, by whom inspected, and
the date of inspection."
It is made the duty of the gaugers to inspect, brand, and
stamp all spirits required by law to be inspected, of which returns are to be made daily in duplicate to the assessor and collector, containing a true account in detail on Form No. 59.
The information, after reciting the seizure of the spirits and
alleging that they bad formerly been owned by one Bensberg,
alleges "that said Bensberg, while his ownership of said
spirits continued, and with the purpose and intention of obtaining the issue to him of stamps for rectified spirits, to be
placed upon certain other spirits upon which the tax had not
been paid, and for the purpose of evading said tax, and enabling him to dispose of the ltter mentioned spirits without
compliance with any requirement of law respecting them,
falsely made returns to the collector of the collection district
aforesaid upon Form 122 aforesaid ; that the spirits first above
mentioned were emptied for rectification upon his premises
aforesaid, and the stamps, marks, and brands thereupon effaced
and obliterated, and that said Bensberg, then and there, by
means of a bribe of money for that purpose, paid by said Bensberg to a certain United States gauger, who was then and
there charged with the duty of inspecting the emptying of
packages of spirits for rectification upon the premises aforesaid,
and of making his certificate relating thereto as set forth in
Form 122 aforesaid, and of making a report relating thereto

Oct.

1880.]

THACHER'S DISTILLED SPIRITS.

to said collector upon a form duly, by the commissioner afore.
said according to law, for that purpose prescribed, and known
as Form 59, whereof a copy is hereto annexed and marked
B, induced said gauger to make his certificate upon Form 122
as aforesaid, and the return upon Form 59 aforesaid, that the
packages of spirits first above mentioned were emptied upon
said premises, and the stamps, marks, and brands upon them
effaced and obliterated, while in truth and in fact such returns,
Forms 122 and 59, and said certificate, were wholly false, and
said packages were not emptied, or said stamps, marks, oi
brands effaced or obliterated, but on the contrary thereof said
packages were subsequently shipped and delivered to the claimant in this action, and said Bensberg then and there conveyed
to said claimant all the right, title, and interest therein which
he could convey in view of the facts hereinbefore alleged,
against the form of the statutes of the United States in such
case provided."
On demurrer to this information judgment was rendered for
the United States in the District Court, which was affirmed
on a writ of error by the Circuit Court.
The Revised Statutes, sect. 3451 is as follows:", Every person who simulates or falsely or fraudulently executes
or signs any bond, permit, entry, or document required by the provisions of the internal revenue laws, or by any regulations made in
pursuance thereof, or who procures the same to be fidsely or fraudulently executed, or who advises, aids in, or connives at such execution thereof, shall be imprisoned for a term not less than one year
nor more than five years, and the property to which such false and
fraudulent instrument relates shall be forfeited."
It is objected by counsel for the claimant of the whiskey,
that the regulation in question is unauthorized by the statute.
But we see no just ground for such a proposition.
The internal revenue law is very specific in the details of
that which is necessary to prevent fraud, especially in regard
to the tax on whiskey and tobacco, and it was still found necessary to authorize the bureau which had charge of the collection of that tax to prescribe regulations for conducting the
business of making and selling whiskey, and to adopt forms of

THACHER'S DISTILLED SPIRITS.

Lsup. Ct.

reports in the information which it must receive from the officers engaged in collecting the tax, and the parties who should
pay the tax.
The rule in question seems to be a reasonable one and within
the purview of the power conferred.
After all, the essence of the charge against Bensberg is that
he defrauded the government out of the tax justly due, and
that he did it by the fraudulent use of these forms and in violation of the regulations.
It is also urged that the offence which he committed had
relation to the other whiskey on which he placed the stamps
fraudulently obtained. The answer to this is, that while both
packages were properly stamped, the fraud was committed in
obtaining stamps on a false certificate of emptying the casks
now seized, and a false certificate of the gauger to that effect
in violation of the regulation on that subject. We are of opinion that it was in regard to the whiskey now seized that the
false entry was made, and the forfeiture attached to it.
Though claimaht's counsel sets up the innocence of the present claimant in regard to the fraud or any knowledge of it, it
can hardly be necessary at this day to reconsider the doctrine
that when the act has been done which the law declares to
work a forfeiture of the property, the right of the government
to seize the property, and assert the forfeittire, attaches at once
and may be pursued by the government whenever and in whose
hands soever that property may be found. See ffenderon's
Distilled Spirits, 14 Wall. 44.
Judgment affirmed.

