Dec. 18138.]

MULLIGAN V, CORBINS.
Statement of the case.

that the legislatuie intended exceptions to its language,
which would avoid results of this character. The reason of
the law in such cases should prevail over its letter.
The common sense of man approves the judgment mentioned by Puffendorf, that the Bolognian law which enacted,
"that whoever drew blood in the streets should be punished
with the utmost severity," did not extend to the surgeon
who opened the vein of a person that fell down in the street
in a fit. The same common sense accepts the ruling, cited
by Plowden, that the statute of 1st Edward II,which enacts
that a prisoner who breaks prison shall be guilty of felony,
does not extend to a prisoner who breaks out when the
prison is on fire--" for he is not to be hanged because he
would not stay to be burnt." And we think that a like
common sense will sanction the ruling we make, that the act
of Congress which punishes the obstruction or retarding of
the passage of the mail, or of its carrier, does not apply to a
case of temporary detention of the mail caused by the arrest
of the carrier upon an indictment for murder.*
The questions certified to us must be answered IN, THE
So ORDERED.
NEGATIVE; and it is
Mr. Justice MILLER, having been absent at the hearing,
took no part in this order.

MULLIGAN V. CORBINS.
A statute of a State releasing I, whatever interest" in certain real estate
may 'rightfully" belong to it, is not a law impairing the obligation
of a contract in a case where an agent of the State, having by contract
with it acquired an interest in ha/f the lot, undertakes to sell and conveys the whole of it. In such case-and on an assumption that the
agent does own one half-the statute will be held to apply to the remaining half alone.
ERROR to the Court of Appeals of Kentucky; the case
being this:
Solomon Brindley, a free colored man, was the owner, in
' See also United States v. Hart. 1 Peters's Circuit Court, 390.

MULLIGAN

V. CORBINS.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

1808, of a small house and lot of trifling value, on Upper
Street, in the city of Lexington, and was now dead. It did
not appear when he died, or that he ever transferred the
title to the property; but, at a very early day, William T.
Barry occupied it, and this occupancy was continued after
his death, by his legal representatives, until 1843, when it
was sold, as Barry's property, on an execution in favor of
the old Bank of Kentucky (then mainly owned by and under
the control of the State), and purchased for Martha Ann
Corbin, and Martha Ann Corbin, her daughter, two of the
defendants in error, who occupied and claimed it until November, 1855.
At this date, T. B. Monroe, Jr., an attorney-at-law, was
employed by the auditor of public accounts, in conformity
with a statute of Kentucky,* by a written contract, to sue
for and recover the property, as having eseheated on the
death of Brindley, it being agreed that Monroe was to have
for his compensation a moiety of the property recovered.
-Monroe, in the execution of his employmeht, prosecuted a
suit in the name of one Baxter, the agent appointed to take
charge of eseheated estates in Fayette County, where the
property was situated, and procured a judgment of eviction,
and afterwards undertook to sell the property to Mulligan,
the plaintiff in error, and to deliver possession to him. The
record did not show that Baxter was a party to this sale, or
had sanctioned it. At this point of time the legislature
stepped in, and on the 4th of April, 1861, passed a statute,
enacting,
"That whatever interest in a small house and lot on Upper
Street, in the city of Lexington, which was conveyed, in the
year 1808, by Thomas Bodley to Solomon Brindley, may rightfully belong to the State by escheat, or otherwise, since the
death of the said Brindiey, without any known legal heirs, be,
and the same is hereby, released to, and rested in, Martha Ann
Corbin for her life, and her daughter, Mlartha Ann, absolutely
after her said mother's death. The said property having been
1 Stanton's Statutes of Kentucky, chap. 34, p. 459.

Dec. 1868.]

c ULLIGAN V. 0OR1BINS.
Opinion of the court.

bought., in the year 1843, as the property of William T. Barry,
claiming and possessed of it, after said Brindley's death, and
conveyed, in 1844, to the said mother and daughter, and who
have occupied it as theirs ever since said sale and conveyance."
Mulligan, having filed a petition against the Corbins to
recover possession of the property, insisted that this act of
1861 was inhibited by the Constitution of the United States,
because it impaired the obligation of the contract which the
auditor made with Monroe. The Court of Appeals directed
the petition to be dismissed, and Mulligan brought the case
by writ of error here.
.Mr. Garrett -Davis,for the plaintiff in error, made very numerous objections to the title of the Corbins, in addition io
that of the unconstitutionality of the act of the 4th April,
1861.
Mr. Mbore, contra.
Mr: Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The only question that arises in this case, which it is competent for this court to decide, is, whether'the act of the
legislature of Kentucky, passed on the 4th day of April,
1861, is repugnant to the Constitution of the United States,
because it impairs the obligation of a contract.
If the legislature had the power to release to the defendants in error the right of the State to the property in controversy, both common justice and the good name of the
commonwealth demanded the exercise of that power, under
the circumstances of this case. It appears that the afiairs
of the old Bank of Kentucky were substantially under the
control of the State when the house and lot were seized as
the property of Barry, and sold. The purchasers at that
sale had a right to 2onclude that the State would never
interfere to their prejudice, and no other party could, if
Brindley died without hei;s. The legislature, after the fhcts
were known, would have been guilty of a great wrong, if
they had refused to pass an act to give validity, as fir as it

MULLIGAN V. CORbINS.

rsup. Ct.

Opinion of the court

had power to do so, to a sale of which the State derived the
benefit.
The general power of the legislature to grant to individuals the lands belonging to the State is not denied; but it
is claimed there was a restraint in this instance, on account
of the previous contract, concerning the property, between
the auditor and Monroe.
It is charitable to suppose that the auditor would never
have employed Monroe to dispossess the Corbins, had he
known the manner in which they acquired possession, and
'that his proceedings were prompted by a commendable zeal
for the true interests of the State.
-But, after all, did the contract with Monroe have the effect
claimed for it by the plaintiff in error? It certainly did not
vest in him the title to the property. If, as is admitted, the
auditor had the authority to contract with an attorney-atlaw to give him one-half the escheated estate, as compensation for its recovery, still, this contract did not confer on
him a license to sell the property after it was recovered, or to
make any disposition of it that would bind the government.
The legislature had intrusted the management of escheated
property with bonded officers, and confided to them the exclusive power of selling, under the written directions of the
auditor.* In no other mode could the legal title of the State
be divested, and it nowhere appears that Baxter, in whose
name the suit against the Corbins was prosecuted, and who
was the agent for escheated estates in Fayette County, where
the property is situated, was a party to the sale to Mulligan,
or that he ever sanctioned it. Viewing the transaction in
the aspect most favorable to Mulligan, it is apparent that
his rights, under this contract, are those which belonged to
Monroe, and that he has no other or better rights than
Monroe had. The case, then, resolves into this question:
what were the rights of Monroe, and how are they affected
by the act of the legislature? The answer to this question
is very plain, and relieves the proceeding of any difficulty.
1 Stanton's Statutes of Kentucky, chap. 34, p. 459.

Dec. 1868.]

UNITED

STATES

v.

GILMORE.

Syllabus.

When the escheat was perfected, the legal title to the
entire property was vested in the State; but as the State,
through its auditor, had bargained with Monroe to concede
a moiety to him for his services, it ,follows that the State
was under obligations to convey, in sone proper form, this
moiety to him. This left the State the undisputed owner
of one-half the property, with such power of disposition as
the legislature, in its wisdom, should see proper to give it.
The act in question does not attempt to interfere with any
privilege which belonged to Monroe, and we have no right
to presume it was passed with' any such intention. It does
not profess to grant to the Corbins any particular estate, but
simply releases tq them whatever interest the State had to
the property they occupied, and as the State undoubtedly
had an interest in it to the extent of one moiety, how can it
be said that the obligation of the contract between the audia
tor and Monroe was impaired by this statute?
The statute operated rightfully on' the moiety owned by
the State, and there is no authority for saying the legislatutre meant to do anything more.
It is not our province to decide any other point in this
case, and as the act of the legislature of Kentucky does not,
either in terms or by necessary implication, impair the obligation of the auditor's contract with Monroe, it follows that
the judgment of the Court of Appeals must be
-AFFIRMED.

UNITED STATES V. GILMORE ET AL.
1. Before a depositary of public money can, in a suit against him by the,
United States for a balance, offer proof of credits for clerk hire, he
must show by evidence from the books of the treasury-a transcript
of the proceedings of the officers being a proper form of such evidencethat a claim for such credits had been presented to the proper officers of
the treasury (that is to say, to the first auditor, and afterwards to the
first comptroller for his final decision), and by them had been, in whole
or in part, disallowed.
2. If proof of such credits have been permitted to go to the jury without

