700

TEXAS V. WHITE.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

TEXAS V. WHITE ET AL.
1. The word State describes sometimes a people or community of individuals united more or less closely in political relations, inhabiting temporarily or permanently the same country; often it denotes only the
country, or territorial region, inhabited by such n community; not
unfrequently it is applied to the government uder which the people
live; at other times it represents the combined idea of people, territory,
and government.
2. In the Constitution the term State most frequently expresses the combined idea just noticed, of people, territory, and government. A State,
in the ordinary sense of the Constitution, is a political community of
free citizens, occupying a territory of defined boundaries, and organized under a government sanctioned and limited by a written constitution, and established by the consent of the governed.
3. But the term is also used to express the idea of a people or political community, as distinguished from the government. In this sense it is used
in the clause which provides that the United States bhall guarantee to
every State in the Union a republican form of government, and shall
protect each of them against invasion.
4. The Union of the States never was a purely artificial and arbitrary relation. It began among the Colonies, and grew'out of conimon origin,
mutual sympathies, kindred principles, similar interests, and geographicil relations. It was confirmed and strengthened by the necessities of war, and received definite form, and character, and sanction,
from the Articles of Confederation. By these the Union was solemnly
declared to "be perpetual." And, when these Articles were found to
be inadequate to the exigencies of the country, the Constitutionwas ordained "' to form a more perfect Union."
5. Bat the perpetuity and indissolubility of the Union by no means implies
the loss of distinct and individual existence, or of the right of selfgovernment by the States. On the contrary, it may be not unreasonably said, that the preservation of the States, and the maintenance of
their governments, are as much within the design and care of the Constitution, as the preservation of the Union and the maintenance of the
National government. The Constitution, in all its provisions, looks to
an indestructible Union, composed of indestructible States.
6. When Texas became one of the United States, she entered into an indissoluble relation. The union between Texas and the other States was
as complete, as perpetual, and as indissoluble as the union between the
original States. There was no place for reconsideration or revocation,
except through revolution or through consent of the States.
7. Considered as transactions under the Constitukion, the ordinance of secession, adopted by the convention, and ratified by a majority of the
citizens of Texas. and all the acts of her legislatura intended to give

Dec. 1868.]

TEXAS V. "WHITE.

Syllabus.

8.

0.

10.

11.

12.

13.

1.

effect tothat ordinance, were absolutely null. They were utterly without operation in law. The State did not epase to be a State, nor her
citizens to be citizens of the Union.
But in order to the exercise, by a State, of the right to sue in this court,,
there needs to be a State go-ernment, competent to represent the State
in its relations with the National government, so far at least as the institution and prosecution of a suit is concerned.
While Texas was controlled by a government hostile to the United
States, and in affiliation with a hostile cpnfederation, waging war upon
the United States, no suit, instituted in her name, could be maintained
in this 6ourt. It was necessary that the government and the, people
of the'State should be restored to pefdceful relations to the United
States, under the Constitution, before such a suit could be rosecuted.
Authority to suppress rebellion is found in the power to suppress insurrection and carry on war; and authority to provide for the restoration
of State governments, under the Constitution, whcn subverted and
overthrown, is derived, from the obligation of the United Stat, , 'o
guarantee to every State in the Union a republican form of government. The latter, indeed, in the case of a rebellion which involves
the government of a State, and, for the time, excludes the National
authority from its lithits, seems to be a necessary complement tr' the
other'
*When slavery was abolished, the new freemen necessarily became part
of the people; and the people still constituted,the State: for 8tates,
like individuals, retain their identity, though changed, to some extent,
in their constituent elements. And it was 'he State, thus constituted,
which was now entitled to the benefit of the constitutional gparanty.
In the exercise of the power conferred by the guaranty clause, as in the
exercise of eveiy other constitutional power, a discretion in the choice
of means is necessarily allowed. It is essential only thqt the means
must be necessary and proper for carrying into execution the power
conferred, through the restoration Qf the State to its constitutional relations, under a republican form of government, and that no acts be done,
and no authority exerted, which is either prohibited or unsanctioned by
thb Constitution.'
So long as the war continued, it cannot be denied t.at the President
might institute temporary government within insurgent districts, occupied by the National forces, or take provisional meaures, in any State,
for thd restoration of State government faithful to the Union, employ'ing, hbwever, in such efforts, only such means and agents as were
authorized by constitutional laws. But, the power to carry into effect
the clause of guaranty is primarily a legislative power, and resides in
Congress, though necessarily limited to cases where the rightful gov ernment is subveftedby revolutionary violence, or in imminent danger
of being overthrown by an opposing government, set up by force within
the State.
The'several executives of Texas, partially, at least, reorganized undef

TE XAS v. WtiITE.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the cas6.
the authority of the President and of Congress, having sanctioned this
suit, the necessary conclusion is, that it was instituted and is prosecuted
by competeit authority.
'5. Public property of a State, alienated during rebellion by an usurping
State government for the purpose of carrying on war against the United
States, may b.e reclaimed bya restored State government, organized in
allegiance to the Union, for the benefit of the State.
16. Exact definitions, within which the acts of a State governn~et, organized in hostility to the Constitution and government of the United
States, must be. treated as valid or invalid, need not be attempted. It
may be said, however, that acts necessary to peace and good order
among citizens, such, for example, as acts sanctioning and protecting
marriage and'the domesticrelations, governing the course of descents,
regulating the conveyance and transfer of property, real and perspnal,
and providing remedies for injuries to person and estate, and other
similar acts, which would be valid if emanating from a lawful government, must be regarded'ih general as valid when proceeding from an
actual, though unlawful government; and that acts in furierance or
support of rebellion against the Unitod States, oi intended to defe t'
the just rights of citizens, and other acts of likenatue, must, in gut
eral, be regarded as invalid. and void.
17. Purchasers of United. States bonds issued payable to the State of Texas
or bearer, alienated during rebellion by the insurgent government, and
acquired after the date at ivhich the bonds became redeemable, are
affected with notice of defect of title in the seller
ON

oriuinal,bill.

The Constitution ordains that 'the judicial power of the
United States shall extend to certain cases, and among theni
"to controversies between a Stale and citizens of another State;
. . and between a State, or the citizens thereof; and foreign
States, citizens or subjects.", It ordains further, that in
cases in which "a State" shall be a party, the Supreme
Court shall have original jurisdiction.
Wih these provisions in force as fundamental law, Texas,
entitling herself "the State of Texas, oie of the United
Sttes of Abierica," filed, on the 15th of February, 18671 an
oiiginal bill against different persons; White and Chiles,
one Ilardenberg, a certain firm, Birch, Murray & Co., and
soine'others,*. citizens of New ork and other States; pray• These were Stewayt, Shaw, &c., who made no resistance by counsel at
the argument.

bed. 1869.]

T.LXAS i'-. WHITE.
Statement of the case.

ing an injunction against their asking or receiving payment
from the United States of certain bonds of the Federal gov.
ernment, known as Texan indemnity'bonds; and that the
bonds might be deliveked .up to the--complainant' and for
other and further relief.
The case was this:
In 1851 the United Statesissued its bonds-five thousand
bonds foe $1000 each, and numbered successi:ly from N'o.'1
to No.. 5000, and thus making the sum of $5,000,000-to the
State of Texas, in arrangement of certain bounaary claims
made by that State. The bonds, which were dated January
1st, 1851, were coupon bonds, payhble, by their terms, to
the State of Texas or bearer, with* interest at 5 per cerrt.
senii-annually, and," redeemable after the 31st day of Decemhbr, 1864." Kich bond contained a statement on its face
that the debt was authorized by act of Congress, and was
"transferable on deliveiV," and to each were attached sixmonth coupons, extending to December 31, 1864.*
In pursuance of an het of the legislature of Texas, the
controller of public accounts of the State was authorized to
gp-'to Washington, and to receive there the 'bonds; the
statute making it his duty to deposit. them, whet} received,
in the treasury of the St ate of Texas, to be disposed of "as
may be proded by law;" and enacting further, that no bond,
issued a'saforesaid and payable to bearer, should be "available in the bands of any holder until the same shall hve
been indoi-sed, in the city of Austin, by the governor of the State
qf Texas."
Most of the bonds were indorsed and sold according to
law, and paid on presentatiqn by the United States prior to
1860. A part of them, however,-approprifted by act of
legislature as a school fund-were still in the treasury or
Texas, in January, 1861, when the late Southern rebellion
brolke out.
The part which Texas took in that event, and the position
*-For a particular ancount of these bonds, see Paschal's AnnOtated Digest
Arts. 442-450.

TEXAS V. WHITE.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.

in which the close of it left her, are necessary to be here
adverted to.
At the time of that outbreak, Texas was confessedly one
of the United States of America~having a State constitution
in accordance with tht of the United States, and represented
by senators and representatives in the Congress at Washington. In January, 1861, a call for a convention of the people
of the State was issued, signed by sixty-one individuals.
The call was without authority and revolutionary. Under
it delegates werb elected from some sections of the State,
whilst in others no-vote was taken. These delegates assembled in State convention, and on the 1st of February, 1861,
the convention adopted an ordinance "to dissolve the union
between the State of Texas and the other States, uniled under the
compact.slyled, ' the Constitutionof the United States of America.'"
The ordinance contained a provision requiring it to be submitted to the people of Texas, for ratification or rejection
by the qualified voters thereof, on the 23d of February,
1861. The legislature of the State, convened in extra session, on the 22d of January, 1861, passed an act ratifying
the election of the delegates, chosen in the irregular manner above mentioned, to the convention, The ordinance
of secession submitted to the people was adopted by a yote
of 34,794 aghinst 11,235. The convention, which had'adjourned immediately on passing the. ordinance, reassembled. On the 4th of March, 1861, it declared that the
ordinance of secession had been ratified by the people, and
that Texas had withdrawn from the union of the States
under the Federal Constitution. It also passed a reso!ution
requiring the officers of the State government to take an
oath to support the provisional government of the Confederate 'States, and providing, that if" any officer refused
to take such oath, in the manner and within the time prese.bed, his office should be 'deemed vacant, and the same
filled as though he were dead." -On the 16th of Marcoh, the
convention passed an ordinance, declaring, that whereas the
governor and the secretary of state had refused or omitted
to take the oath prescribed, their offices were vacant; that

'Dec. 1868;]

TEXAS v. WHITE.

705

Statement of the case.

the lieutenant-governor should exercise the authority and
perform the duties appertaining to the office of"governor,
and that the deposed officers* shbuld deliver to their successors in office the great seal of the State, and all papers,
archives, and property in their possession belonging or appertaining to the State. The convention further assumed.
to exercise and administer the political power and authority
,of the State.
Thus was established the rebel government of Texas.
The senators and representatives of the.State in Congress
now withdrew from that body at Washington. Delegates
were sent to the Congress of the so-called Confederate
States at Montgomery, Alabama, and electors for a president and vice-president of these States appointed. War
having become necessary to complete the purposed destruction by the South of the Federal government, Texas joinea
the other Southern States, and made war upon the United
States, whose authority was now recognized in no manner

within her borders. The oath of allegiance of all persons
exercising public functions was to both the State of Texas,
and to the Coifederate States of America; and no officer
of any kind representing the.United States was within the
limits of the State except military officers, who had been
made prisoners. Such was and had been for several months
the condition of things in the beginning of 1862.
On the 11th of Jauuary, of that year, the legislature of
the usurping government of Texas passed an act-" to proride arms and ammunition; and for tie manufacture of arms and
ordnance for the military defences of the State." And by it
created a "military board," to carry out the purpose indicated iii the title. Under the authority of this act; military
forces were organized.
On the same day-the legislature passed a further act, entitied "An act to providefunds for military purposes," and therein
direefed the board, which it-had. previously organized, "to
dispose of any bonds and coupons which-may be in the treasury on
.any account, and use such fujnds or their proceeds for the defence
6f the State;" and passed aft additiofial act' repealing the act
VOL.

VII.

45

706

TEXAS V. WHITE.

[Sup. Ct.

tatement 6f the case.

which made an indorsement of the bonds by the governor of Texas
necessaiy to make them 4vailable in the hands of the holder.
Under these acts, the military board, on the 12th Janiuary, 1.65, a date at which the success of the Federal arms
seemed probable, agreed-to sell to White & Chiles one hundred and thirty-five of these bonds, then in the treasury of
Texas, and seventy-six others deposited with certain bankers
in England, in payment for which White & Chiles were to
deliver to the board a large quantity of cotton cards and
medicines. The former bonds were delivered to White &
Chiles on the 15th March following, none of them being indorsMd by any governor of Texas.
It appeared that in February, 1862, after the rebellion had
broken out, it was made known to the Secretary of the
Treasury of the United States, in writing, by the lion. G.
W. Paschal, of Texas, who had remained constant to the
Union, that an effort would be made by the rebel authorities
of Texas to use the bonds remaining in the treasury in aid
of the rebellion; and that they could be identified, because
all that had been circulated before the war were indorsed by
different governors of Texas. The Secretary of the Treasury
acted on this information, and refused in general to pay bonds
that had not, been indorsed. On the 4ih of October, 1865,
Mr., Paschal, ,as agent of the State of Texas, caused to appear in the money report aud editorial of the New York
'Ierald, a notice of the transaction between the rebel government of Texas and White & Chiles,. and a statement that
the treasury of the United States would not pay the bonds
transferred to them by such usurping government. On the
10th October, 1865, the provisional governor of the State
published in the New York Tribune; a " Caution to the Publie," in which he recited that the rebel government of Texas
had, under a pretend'ed contract, transferred to White &
Chiles "one hundred and thirty-five ITnited States Texan
indemnity bonds, issued January 1, 1851, payable in fourteen years, of the denomination of $1000 each, an'd coupons
attached thereto to the &mouptof $1287.50, amounting in the
aggregate, bonds and coupons, to the sum of $156,287.50."

Ded. 1868.]

TEXAS V. WRBITE.
Statement of the case.

His caution did not specify, hovever, any particular' bonds
by numter. The caution went on to say that the transfer
was a conspiracy between the rebel governor and White &
Chiles to rob the State treasury, that White & Chiles had
never paid the State one farthing, that they had fled the
State, and that these facts had been made known to the
Secretary of tbe Treasury of the United States. And "a protest was filed with him by Mr. Paschal, agent of the State of
Texas, against the payment of,the said bonds and coupons
unless presented for payment by proper authority." The
substance of this notice, it was testified, was published in
money articles of many of the various newspapers of about
that date, and that financial men in New York and other
places spoke to Mr. Paschal, who had caused it to be inserted in the Tribune, about it. It was testified also, that
after the commencement of the suit, White & Chiles said
that they had seen it.
The rebel forced being disbanded on the 25th May, 1865,
and the civil officers of the usurping government of Texas
having fled from the country, the President, on the 17th
June, 1865, issued his proclamation appointing Mr. A. J.
Hamilton, provisional governor of the State; and directing
the formation by the.people of a State government in Texas.
Under the provisional government thus etablished, the
people proceeded to make a constitution, and reconstruct
their State. government.
But much question arose as to what was thus done, and the.
State was not acknowledged by the Congress of the United
-States as being reconstructed. On the contrary, Congress
passed, in March, 1867, three certain acts, known as the Reconstruction Acts. By the .1irst of these, reciting that no
legal State goverrtments or adequate protection for life or
property then existed in the rebel States of Texas, and nine
was necessary that peace
other States named, and that it"
and good order should ,beenforced in them until loyal and
republican State governments could be legally established,
Congress divided the States named into five miilitary districts
'(Texas with Louisiana being the fifth), and made it the duty

708-

TEXAS V. -WRItTE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

of the President to assign to each :n officer of th e army, and
to detail a sufficient military force to enable him to perform
his duties and enforce authority within his district. The act
made it the duty, of this officer to protect all persons in their
rights, to suppress insurrection,, disorde6, violence, and to
punish, or cause to be punished, all disturbers of the public
peace and criminals, either through the local civil tribunals or
through military commissions, which the act authorized. It
provided, further, that when the people of any one of these
States had formed a constitution in conformity with that of
the United States, framed in a way -which the statute went
on to specify, and when the State had adopted a certain
article of amendment named, to the Constitution of the
United States; and when such article should have become a
part of the Constitution of the United States, then that the
States respectively should be declared entitled to representation in Congress, and the preceding part of the act become
inoperative; and that until they were so admitted any civil
governments which might exist in them should be deemed
provisional only, and subject to the paramount authority of
the United States; at any time to abolish, modify, control,
or supersede them.
A State convention of 1866 passed an ordinance looking
to the recovery of these bonds; and by act of October of
that year, the governor of Texas was authorized to take such
steps as he might deem best for the interests of the State in
the matter; either to recover the bonds, or to compromise
with holders. Under this act the governor appointed an
agent of the State to look after the matter.
It was in this state of things, with the State government
organized in the manner and with the status above men.
tioned, that this present bill'was directed'by this agent to be
filed.
The bill was filed by Mr. R. T. Merrick and others, solicitors in this court, on behalf of the State, without ,preceden written warrant of attorney. But a letter from J. W.
hrockrnoxton, elected governor under the constitution of
1866, ratified their act, and authorized them to prosecute

Dec. 1868.]

TXXAS V. WHITE.
Stateme.

of the case

the'suit. Mr. Paschal,, who now appeared with the other
counsel, in behalf of the State, had been appointed by Governor Hamilton to represent theState, and- Mr. Pease, a
subsequent governor, appointed by General Sheridan, commander under the reconstruction acts, renewed this appoint•ment.
The bill set forth the issue and delivery of the bonds to the
State, the fact that they were seized by a combination of
iersons in armed hostility to the government of the United
States, sold by an organization styled the military board,
to White & Chiles, for the purpose of aiding the overthrow
of the Federal government; that White & Chiles had not
performed-what they agreed to. do. It then set forth that
they had transferred such and such numbers, specifying
them, to Hardenberg, and such and such others to Birch,
Murray & Co., &c.; that these transfers wer& not in good
faith, but were with express notice on the part of the transferees of the manner in Which.the bonds had been obtained
by White & *Chiles; that the bonds were overdue at the
time of the transfer; and that they had never been indorsed
by any governor of Texas. The bill interrogated the defendauts about all these particulars; requiring them to answer on "oath; and, as already mentioned, it prayed an injunction against their asking, or receiving payment from
the United States; that the bonds might be delivered to the
State of Texas, and for other and further relief
As respected White & Chiles, who-had now largely parted
with the. bonds, the cqse rested much upon what precedes,
and their own answers.
The answer of CHILES, declaring that he had non6 of the
bonds in his possession, set forth:
1. That there was no sufficient authority shown to prosecute the suit in the name of Texas.
2.. That Texas by her rebellious courses had so far changed
her status, as one of the United States, as to be disqualified
from. suing in this court.
3. That whether the government of Texas, during the term
in question, was one dejure or defacto, it had authorized the

TE:XAS V. WHITE.

[Sup, C&,

Statement of the ease.

military board to act for it, and that thb State was est~pped
from denying its acts.
4. That no indorsement of the bonds was necessary, they
having been negotiable paper.
5. That the articles which White & Chiles had agreed to
give the State, were destroyed in transitu, by disbanded troops,
who infested Texas, and that the loss of the articlm was unavoidable;
The answer of WHITE went over some of the, same ground
with that of Chiles. i-e admitted, however, "that he was
informed and believed that in all cases where any of the
bonds were disposed of by him, it was known to the parties
purchasing for themselves, or as agents for others, that there
was some embarrassment in obtainbig payment of said bonds at
the treasury of the United Stales, arising out of the title of this
re.spoutent and his co-defendant Chiles."
As respected HARDENBERG, the case seemed much thus:
In the beginning of November, 1866, after the date of the
notices given through Mr. Paschal, one Hennessey, residing in New York, and carrying on an importing and commission business, then sold to Hardenberg thirty of these

bonds, originally given to Wihite and Chiles; and which
thirty, a correspondent of his, long known tb him, in Tennessee, had sent to him for sale. Ilardetiberg bought them
' at the rate of 1.20 fbr the dollar on their face,,' and paid for
them. Henneswey had "heard from somebody that there was
some difficulty about the bonds being paid at the treasury,
but did not remember whether he heard that before or after
the sale."
Hardenberg also ,bought, others of these bonds near the
same time, at 1.15 per cent., under circumstances thus testified to by Mr. C. T. Lewi% a lawyer of New York:
"In conversation with Mr. Hardenberg, I had learned that
he \was interested in the Texas indemnity bonds, and meditatced
purchasing same. I was informed in"Wall. Street that such

'bonds were offered for sale by Kimball & Co., at a certain price,
which price I cannot now recollect. /informed Mr. Hardenlberg
of this fact, and herequested me to secure the bonds for him at

.Deq. 1868.]

TFus

v. WHITE..

Statement of,thecase.

That price. I went to C. H. Kiniball & Qo;, and told them to
send the bonds to Mr. flardenberg s offico and get a check' for
them, which I understand they did. I remember expressing to,
.Mr. Hardenberg the opinion that these bonds, being on t7Aeir, facenegotiable by delivery, and payable in gold, must, at no distant'da,
be redeemed accordingto their tenor, and were, therefore, a good purchase at the price at which they were offered.
"lMy impression is, that before this negotiation I had read a
paragraph in some New York newspaper, stating that the pay.-'
ment of the whole issue-of the Texas indemnity bonds was suspended until the history' of a certain portion of the issue, supposed to have been negotiated for the benefit of the rebel
service, should be understood. I am not at all certain whether
I read this publication before- or after the date of the transaction. If the publication was made before this transaction I had
probably read the article before the purchase was made. My impression is, that it was a paragraph in a money article, but I
attributed no great iinportance to it. I acted in this matter
simply as 'te friend of Mr. IHardenberg, and received no commission for my services. I am a lawyer by profession, and not
a broker."
Kimball & Co. (the brokers thus above referred to by Mr.
Lewis), testified that they had received the bonds thus sold,
from a firm which they named, "in perfect good faith, and
sold, them in like good faith, as we would any other lot
of bonds received from a reputable house." It appeared,
however, that in sending the bonds to Kimball & Co., for
sale, the firm had reqdiested that they might not be known
in the transaction.
Hardenberg's .ovn account of the matter, as declared by
his answer, was thus:
"6That he was a merchant in the city of New York; that he
purchased the bonds held by him in open market in said city;
that the parties from whom be purchased the same were responible persons, residing and doing business in said city; that he
purchased of MeKim, Brothers & Co., bankers in good standing
in Wall Street, one bond at 1.15 per cent., on the 6th of November, 1866, when gold was at the rate of 81.471, and declin.
ing; that when he purchased the same he made no inquiries of

TEXAS V. WHITE.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.
McKm'n, Brothers & Co., but took the bonds on his own observation of their plain tenor and effect at what he conceived to
be. a good bargain; that afterwards, and before the payment of
said bonds and coupons by the Secretary of the-Treasury, and
at the request of the Comptroller, Hon. R. W. Taylor, he made
inquiry of said firm of McKim, Brothers & Co., and they -in-formed him that said bonds and coupons had been sent to them
to be sold by the First National Bank of Wilmington, North
Carolina; that he purchased on the 8th of November, 1866,
thirty of said bonds, amounting to the sum of $32,475, of J. S.
Hennessey, 29 Warren Street, New York City, doing business as
a commission merchant, who informed him that, in the way of
business, they were sent him by Hugh Douglas, of Nashville,
Tennessee; that he paid at the rate of 120 cents at a time, to wit,
the 8th of November, 1866, when gold was selling at 146 and
ieclining; that the three other bonds were purchased by him
on the 8th of November, 1866, of C. H. Kimball & Co., 30 Broad
Street, brokers in good standing, .who informed him, on inquiry
afterwards, that said bonds were handed them to be sold by a
banking house in New York bf the highest respectability, who
owned the same, but whose names were not given, as the said
firm informed him they could 'see no reason for divulging private transactions;' and that he paid for last:mentioned bonds at
the rate of 120 cents, on said 8th day of November, 1806, when
gold was selling at 146 and declining.
"Further answering, he saith that he had no knowledge at the
time of said purch'ase, that the bonds were obtained from the
State of Texas, or were claimed by the said State; that he acted
on information obtained from the pnblic'report otf the Secretary
of the Treasury, showing that a large portion of similar bonds
had been redeemed, and upon his own judgment of the nature
of the obligation expressed by the bonds themselves, and upon
his own faith in the full redemption of said bonds; and he
averred that he had no knowledge of the contract referred toin the bill o2 complaint, nor of the interest or relation of White
& Chiles, nor of any connection which they had with said 6omplainant, or said bonds, nor of the law of the State of Texas requiring indorsement."
The, answer of White mentioned, in regard to Hardenberg's bonds, that they were sold by his (White's) broker;

Dec. 1868.]

TEXAS V. WRITE.'
Statpment of the case.

that he, White, had noknowledge of the name of the real
purchaser, who, h1owever, paid 115 per cent. for them;
,"that at-the time of the sale, his (White's) broker informed
him that.the purchaser, or the person acting for the purchaser, did not want any introduction to the rOspon dent, and
required no history of the bonds proposed to be sold; that
lie only desired that they should come to him through the
hands of a loyal person, who had never been identified with
the rebellion."
Another matter, important possibly in reference to the relief asked by the bill, and to the exact decree* made, should,
perhaps, be mentioned about these bonds of Hardenborg.
The answer of Hardenberg stated, that "on. the 16th of
February, 1867, the Secretary of the Treasury ordered the
payment to the respondent of all said bonds and coupons,
and the same were paid oi that day." This was literally true;
and the books of the treasury showed these bonds as among
the redeemed bonds; and showed nothing else. As a matter of fact, it appeared that the agents of Texas on the one
hand, urging the government not to pay the bonds, and the
holders, on the other, pressing for payment-it being insisted by these last that the United States had no right t6
withhold the money, and thus deprive the holder of the
bonds of interest-the Controller of the Treasury, Mr. Tayler, made. a report, on the 29th of January, 1867, to the
Secretary of the Treasury, in which he mentioned, that it
seemed to be agreed by'the agents of the State, that her
case depended on her ability to show a want of good faith
on the part of the holders of bonds; and that lie had stated
to the agents,-that as considerable delay had already~been
incurred, he would, unless during the succeeding week they
took proper legal steps against the holders, feel it his duty
to pay such bonds as were unimpeached in title in the
h6lders' hands. He accordingly recommended to the secretary payment of Hardenberg's and of some others. The
agents, on the same day that the controller made his report,
* See this last, infra, foot of p. 742.

TEXAS V. WHITE..

[SLIP. OL

Statement of the case.

and after he bad'written most of it, informed him that they
would'take legal proceedings on behalf of the State;, and
were informed in turn that-the report would be made on
that day, and would embrace Hardenberg's bonds. Two
days 'afterwards a personal action was commenced, in the
name of ihe State .of Texas, against Mr. McOulloch, the
tlien Secretary of the Treasury, for the, detelition of the
bbnds of Hardeubgrg and others. This'action was dismissed
February 19th. On the 15th of the same Februaryj the
present bill was filed. On the 16th of the month, the personal suit against the secretary haying at the time, as alieady above stated, been withdrawn, and no process under
the present bill haping then, nor until the 27th following, been
served on JHardenberg, Mr. Tayler, Controller of the, Treasury, and one Cox, the agent of Hardenberg, entered into
an arrangement, by which it was agreed that ibis agent
should deposit with Mr. Tayler government notes known
as "seven-thirties," equivalent in value to the bonds and
coupons held by lardenberg; to be held by Mr. Tayler "as
indemnity for Mr. McCulloch, against any personal damage,
loss, and expense in which he may be involved by reason
of the payment of the bonds." The seven-thirties were then
delivered to Mr. Tayler, and a check in coin for the amount
of the bonds and interest was delivered to Hardenberg's
agent. The seven-thirties were subsequen'tly converted into
the bonds called "five-twenties," and these remained in
the bands of Mr. Tayler, being registered in his name as
trustee. The books of the treasury showed nothing in relation to this trust; nor, a.s already said, anything more or
other than that the bonds were paid to Hardenberg or his
agent.
Next, as respected the bonds of BIRCH; MURRAY & Co. It
seemed in regard to these, that prior to July, 1855, Chiles
wanting money, applied to this firm, who lent him $5000,
on a deposit of twelve of the bonds. The whole of the
twelve were taken to the treasury department. The department at first declined to pay them, but*finally did -,,y

Dee. 1868.]

TEXAS ,V. WhITE.

715"

Statement of-the case.

four of 'them (amolinting with 'the coupons to $4900), upon
the!ground urged by the firm, that it had lent 'the $5000-to
Chiles on the hypothecation of the bonds and coupons .)vith.
out knowledge of the claim of- the State. of. Texas, and because the firm was urged to be, and was apparently, a holder
-in good faith, and, for valie; the other bouds. eight in number, remaining in the treasury, .and not paid to the firm,,

because of the alleged claim of the State of Texas, and of,
thealleg'ahtion that the same. had come into th possession
of, said White and Chiles improperly, andwithout. consideration.
The difficulty now was less perhaps about ,the7 four bonds;
than abodt these' eight, whose further history was thus preseuted by the answer of Birch, one of the firm, to the bill.
He said in this answer, and after mentioning his getting with
difficulty the payment of the four bonds"That afterwards, and during the year 1866, Chiles called upon
him with the )iinted report of the First Comptroller of the
Treasury, Hon. R. W. Tayler, from which it appeared that the
department would, in all reasonabie probability, redeem all -said
bonds; and requested further advances on said eight remaining
bonds; and that the firm thereupon advanced said Chiles, upon
the said eight bonds, from time to ,time, the sum of $4185,25,
iil of which was due and unpaid. That he made the said ad-,
vances as well upon the representations of said Chiles that he
was the bond fide holder of said bonds and coupons, as upon his
own observation and knowledge of their legal tenor and effect;
and of hisfaith in the redemption thereof by the government
of' tho United States."
The answer said further, that'A. the time of the advances Arst made, the firm had no
knowledge of the contract- referred toin the bill*- nor of the
interest or( connection of"said White & Chiles with the 'com-

plainant, nor of the law of the State of Texas referred to in The
bill passed. December 16, 1851 and that the bonds we taken,
in good faith."
It app.earbd further,,in regard to the whole of these bobdsi

[Sup. Ct.

TEXAS V. WHITE.
Statement of the casq.

that, 'in June, 1865, Chiles, wanting to borrow money of one
Barret, and he, Barret, knowing Mr. Hamilton, just then
appointed provisional governor, but not yet installed into
office, nor apparently as yet having the impressions which
he afterwarqls by his caution made public, went to him, supposing him. well acquainted with the nature of these bonds,
and sought his opinion as to their value, and as to whether
they would be pQid. Barret's testimony proceeded:
"He advised me to accept the proposition of Chiles, and gave
it as his opinion that the government would have to pay the
bonds. I afterwards had several conversations with him on the
subject, in all of which he gave the same opinion. Afterwards,
(I can't remember the exact time), Mr. Chiles applied to Birch,
Murray & Co. for a loan of money, proposing to give some bonds
as collateral security; and at his request I went to Birch, Murray &Co., and informed them of my conversations with Governor
Hiamilton, and of his opinion as expressed to me. They then
seemed willing to make at loan on the security offered. In order
to give them farther assurance that I was not mistaken in my
report of Governor Hamilton's opinion verbally expressed, I
obtained from him a letter [letter produced]. It reads thus:
NEW YoRK, June 25th, 1865.

J. R. BARRET.
DEAR SiR: In reply to your question about Texas indemnity bonds
issued by the U. S., I can assure you that they are perfectly good,
and the gov't will certainly pay them to the holders.
±{oN.

Yours truly,
A. J. HALTONl."

The witness " mentioned the conversations had with Governor Hamnilton, and also spoke of the letter, and sometimes
read it to various parties, some of whom were dealing in
these bonds," and, as he stated, had "reason to believe that
Governor Hamilton's opinion in regard to the bonds became
pretty generally known among dealers in such paper." The
witness, however, did'not know Mr. Hlardenberg.
The questions, therefore, were:
1. A minor prelinin'ary one; the question presented by
Chiles's answer, as to whether sufficient authority was shown

Dec. 1868.]

TEXAS V.

"WRITE.

Opinion of the court.

for the prosecution of the suit in the nanie and in behalf
of Texas.
2. A great and principal one; a question of jurisdiction,
viz., whether Texas, at the time of the bill filed or now, was
one of the United States of Am'erica, and so competent to
file an original bill here.
8. Assuming that she was; a question whether the respective defendants, any, all, or who of Jhem, were proper
subjects for the injunction prayed, as lolding the bonds
without sufficieint title, and herein-and more particularly
as respected Hardenberg, and-Birch, Murray & Co.-a quesL
tion of negotiable paper, and the extent to which holders,
asserting themselves holders, bonO fide and for value, of
paper payable "to bearer," held it discharged of precedent
equities.
4. A question as to the effect of the payments, at the
treasury, of the bonds of Htardenberg and of the four bonds
of Birch, Murray & Co.
The ease was argued by Messrs. Paschal and Merrick, in behalf of Texas; and contra, by Mr. -Phillips,for While; Mr. _Pike,
for Chiles; Mr. rlisle, for R7ardenberg; and Mr. Moore, for
Birch, Murray & Co.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an original suit in this court, in which the State
of Texas, claiming certain bonds of the United States as her
property, asks an injunction to res train the defendants from
receiving payment from the National government, and to
compel the surrender of thu bonds to the State.
It appears friom the bill, answers, and proofs, that thle
United States, by act of September 9, 1850, oflred to the
State of Texas, in compensation for her claims connected
with the settlement of her boundary, $10,000,000 in five per
cent. bonds, each for the sum of $1000; and that this olfer
was accepted by Texas. One.half of these bonds were retained for certain purposes in the National treasury, and the
other half were delivered to the State. The bonds thus de.

718

TEXAS V. WHITE.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

livered were dated January 1, 1851, and were all made payable to the State of Texas,'or bearer, and redeemable after
the 31st Jay of December, 1864. They were received in
behalf of the State by thb comptroller of public accounts,
under authority of ail act of the legislature, which, besides
giving that authority, provided that no bond shoild be available in the hands of any bolder until after indorsement by
the governor of the State.
After the breaking out of the rebellion, the insurgent legislature of Texas, on the 11th of January, 1862, repealed the
act requiring the indorsement of the governor,* and on the
same day provided for the~organization of a military board,
composed of the governor, comptroller, and treasuter; and
authorized a majority of that board to provide for th defenee
of the State by means of any'bonds in the treasury, upon any
account; to the extentof $1,000,000.t The' defence contemplated by the act was to be made against the United States
by war. Under this authority the military board entered
into an agreement with George W.' White and John Chiles,
two of the defendants,, for the sale to them of one hundred
and thirty-five of these bonds, then in the treasury of the
State, and seventy-six more, then deposited with Droege &
Co., in England; in payment for which they engaged to deliver to the board Alarge quantity of cotton cards and medicines.' This agreement was made on the 12th of January,
1865. On the 12th of March, 1865, White and Chiles received from the military board one hundred and thirty-five
of these bonds, none of which were indorsed by any governor
of Texas. Afterward, in the course of the years 1865 and
1866, some of the same bonds came into the possession of
others of the defendants, by purchase, or as security for advances of money.
Such is a brief outline of the case. It will be necessary
hereafter to refer more in detail to some particular circumstances of it.
The first inquiries to which our attention was directed by
*Acts of Texas, 1862, p. 45.

t- Texas Laws, 65.

Dec. 1868.-]

TEXAS V. W HITE.
,Opinion of the eourt.

eouns6l, arose upon the allegations of the answer of Ohiles
(1), that no sufficient authority-is shown for the prosecution
of the suit in the name and on the behalf of the State of
Texas; and (2) that the State, having severed her relations
with a majority of the States of the.Union, and having by
her ordinance of secession attempted to throw off her alle-.
glance to the 'Constithtion .and government of the United
States, has so far changed her status as'to be disabled from
prosecuting suits in the National courts.
The filrdt of these.allegations is disproved by the evidence.
A letter of authoritythe authenticity of which is not disputed, has been produced, in which J. W. Throckmorton,
electeaI governor under the. constitution adopted in- 1866,
and proceeding under an ae of the State legislature relating
to these bonds, expressly ratifies and confirms the action of
the solicitors who filed the bill, and empowers them to prosecute this suit; and' it is further proved by the affidavit of Mr.
Paschal, conse for the complainant, that he was duly apl
pointed by Andrew J. Hpmilton, while provisibnal governor
of Texas, to represent the State of Texas in reference to thebonds in controversy, and that hs appointment has'.been
renew ed by E. M. Pease, the actual governor. If Texas was
a State of the -Union at the time of these acts, and these persons, or either of them, were competent to represent the
State, this proof leaves no doubt upon .the question of au-

thority.
The otber allegation presents a questiohi dfjiirisdiction. It
isnot to be questioned that this court has original, jurisdiction of suits by States. against citizens of other. States, or that
the States entitled to invoke this jurisdiction must be States
of the Union. But, it is equally clear that no such jurisdiction has been donferred upon this courb'of sults by any other
political coirnmunities than such States.
If, therefore, it is true that the State of Texas was not at
.he time of filing this bill, or is not now, one of 'the United
States, we have no jurisdiction of this suit,.and it'
is our duty
to dismiss it.

TEXAS V. 'WHITE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

We are very sensible of the magnitude and importance of
this question, of the interest it excites, and of the difficulty,
not to say impossibility, of so disposing of it as to satisfy the
conflicting judgments of men equally enlightened, equally
upright, and equally patriotic. But we meet it in the case,
and we must determine it in the exercise of our best judgment, under the guidance of the Constitution alone.
Some not unimportant aid, however, in ascertaining the
true sense of the Constitution, may be derived from considering what is the correct idea of a State, apart-from any
union or confederation with other States. The poverty of
language 'often compels the employment of terms in quite
different significations; and of this hardly any example more
signal is to be found than in the use of the word we -are now
considering. It would serve no useful purpose to attempt
an enumeration of all the various senses in which it is used.
A few only need be noticed.

It describes sometimes a people or community- of individuals united more or less closely in political relations, inhabiting temporarily or permanently the same country; often it

denotes only the country or territorial region, inhabited by
such a community; not unfrequently it is applied to the government under which the-people live; at other times it represents the combined idea.of people, territory, and government.
It is not difficult to see that in all these senses the primary
conception is that of a people or community. The people,
in whatever territory dwelling, either temporarily or permanently, and whether organized under a regular govertment,

or united by looser and less definite relations, constitute the
state.
T.his is undoubtedly the fundamental idea upon.which the
republican institutions of our own country are established.
It was stated very clearly by an eminent judge,* in one of
the earliest cases adjudicated by this court, and we are not
aware of anything, in any subsequent decision, of a diffbrent
tenor.
31r. Justice Paterson, in Penhallow v. Doane's Admrs., 8 Dallas, 98.

Dec. 1868.]

TEXAS V. WHITE.
Opinion of the court.

In the Constitution the term state most frequently expresses the combined idea just noticed, of people, territory,
and government. A state, in the ordinary sense of the Constitution, is a politicaf community of free citizens, occupying a territory of defined boundaries, and organized under
a government sanctioned and limited by a written constitu-."
tion, and established by the consent of the governed.. It is.
the union of such states, under a common constitution,which
forms the distinct and greater political unit, which that Constitution designates as the United States,-and makes of the
people and states which compose it one people and one
cotintry.
The use of the word in this sensehardly requires furtlieiremark. In the Plauses which impose prohibitions upon di
States in respect to the making of treaties, emitting of bills
of credit, and laying duties of tonnage, and which guarantee
to the States representation in the House of Representatives
and in the Senate, are found some instances of this use in the
Constitution. .Others will occur to every mind.
But it is also used in its geographical sense, as in the
clauses which require that a representative in Congress shall
be an inhabitant of the State in which he shall be chosen,
and that'the trial of crimes shall be held within the Stite
where cofihmitted.'
And there are instances in which the principal sense of
the word seems to be that primary one to which we have adverted, of a people or p9litical community, as distinguished
from a government.
* In this latter sense the word seems to be used in the clause
which provides that the Unifed States shall guarantee to
every State in the Union a republican form of government,
and shall protect each of them against ifvasion.
* In this clause a plain distinction is made between a State
and the government of a State.
Having thus ascertained the senses in which the word state
is employed in the Constitution, we will proceed.to considethe'prope application of what has been said.
VOL. VII.

46

TEXAS V. WfITE.

[Sup. CLt

Opinion of the court.

The Republic of Texas was admitted into the Union, as a
State, on the 27th of December, 1845. By this act the new
State, and the people of the new State, were invested with
all the rights, and became subject to all the responsibilities
and duties of the original States under the Constitution.
From the date of admission, until 1861, the State was
represented in the Congress of the United States by her
senators and representatives, and her relations as a member
of the Union remained unimpaired. In that year, acting
upon the theory that the rights of a State under te Constitution might be renounced, and her obligations thrown off at
pleasure, Texas undertook to sever the bond thus formed,
and to break up her constitutional relations with the United
States.
On the 1st of February,* a convention, called without authority, but subsequently sanctioned by the legislature regolarly elected, adopted an ordinance to dissolve the union
between the State of Texas and the other States under the
Constitution of the United States, whereby Texas was declred to be "a separate and sovereign State," and "her
-people and citizens" to be "absolved frgm all allegiance to
the United States, or the government thereof."
It wa§ ordered by a vote of the conventiont and by an act
of the legislature,l that this ordinance should be ubmitted
to the people, for approval or disapproval, on the 23d of
February, 1861.
Without awaiting, however, the decision thus invoked,
the convention, on the 4th of February, adopted a resolution designating seven delegates to represent the State in
the convention of seceding States at Montgomery, "in' order," as the resolution declared, "that the wishes and interests of the people of Texas may be consulted in reference to
the constitution and provisional government that may be
established by said convention."
Before the passage of this resolution the convention had
* Paschal's Digest Laws of Texas, 78.

: Laws of Texas, 1859-61, p. 11.

t Id. 80.

D ec. 1868.]

TEXAS V. 'W.HITP.
Opinion of thd court.

appointed a committee of public safety, and adopted an ordinance giving authority to that committee to take measures
for obtaining possession of the property of the United States
in Texas, and for removing the National troops from hee
limits. The members of the committee, and all officers and
agents appointed or employed by it, were sworn to secrecy
and to allegiance to the State.* Commissioners were at once
appointed, with instructions to repair to the headquarters of
General Twiggs, then representing the United States in cor-.
mand of the department, and to make the demands necessary
for the accomplishment of the purposes of the committee.
A military force was organized in support of these demands,,
and an arrangement was effected with the commanding general, by which the United States troops Were engaged to
leave the State, and the forts and all the public property,
nQt necessary to the removal of the troops, were surrendered
to the c9mmissioners.t
These transactions took place between the 2d .and the
18th of February, and it was under these circumstances that
the vote upon the ratification or rejection of the ordinance
of secession was taken on the 23d of February. It was ratihled'by a majority of the voterq of the State.'
The convention, which had adjourned before the vote w~s
taken, reassembled on the 2d of March,' and instructed the
'delegates already sent't6 the Congress of the seceding States,
to apply for admission into the confederation, and to give
the adhesion of Texas to its provisional constitution.
It proceeded, also, to make the ch'anges in the State con•stitution which this adhesion mide necessary. The'w6dds
"United States," were stricken out wherever they occurred,
and the words "Confederate States" substituted; and the
members of the legislature, and 11. officers of the State,
were required by the new.6onstitution to take an oath of
fidelity to the constitution and laws of the neW. confederacy.
Before, indeed, thege changes in the constitution had been
• Pascbal's Digest, 80.

t Texas Reports of the Committee ZLibrary of Congress), 45.

TEXAS V. WHITE.

[Sup. dt.

Opinion of the 'court.

completed, the officers of the State had been required to appear before the committee and take an oath of allegiance to
+he Confederate States.
The governor and secretary of state, refusing to comply,
were summarily ejected from o-fice.
The members of the legislature, which had also adjourned
and reassembled on the 18th of March, were more compli:mnt. TU..y took the oath, and proceeded on the 8th of
kpril to provide by law for the choice of electors of presitlent and vice-president of the Confederate States.
The representatives of the State in the Congress of the
United States were withd'awn,'and as soon as the seceded
States became organized under a constitution, Texas sent
-enators and representatives to the Confederate Congress.
In all respects, so far as the object could be accomplished
by ordinances of the convention, by acts of the legislature,
and by votes of the citizens, the relations of Texas to the
Union were broken up, and new relations to a new government were established for them.
The position thus assumed could only be maintained by
arms, and Texas accordingly took part, with the other Confederate States, in the war of the rebellion, which these
events. made inevitable. During the whole of that war there
was no governor, or judge, or any other State officer in
Texas, who recognized the National authority.. Nor was
any officer of the United States permitted to exercise any
authority wbatever under the National government within
the limits of the State, except under the immediate protection of the National military forces.
Did Texas, in consequence of these acts, cease to be a
State? Or, if not, did the State cease to be a member of the
Union?
It is needless to discuss, at length, the question whether
the right of a State to withdraw from the Union for any
cause, regarded by herself as sufficient, is consistent with the
Constitution of the United States.
The Union of the States never was a purely artificial and

Dec. 1868.]

TEXAS V. WRNITE.
Opinion of the court.

arbitrary relation. It began among the Colonies, and grew
out of common origin, mutual sympathies; kindred prlni
ciples, similar interests, and geographical relations. It was
confirmed and strengthened by the necessities of war, and
received definite for.m, and character, and sanction from the
Articles of Confederation. By these the Union was solemnly
declared to "be perpetual." Anid when these Articles were
found to be inadequate to the exigencies of the country, the
Constitution was ordained "to form a more perfect Union-"
It is difficult. to convey the .idea of indissoluble unity more
clearly than by these-words. Whatcan be indissoluble if a
perpetual Union, made more perfect, is not?
JBut the perpetuity and indissolubility of theUnion, by-no
means implies the loss of distinct and individual existence,
or of the right of self-government by the States. Under the
Articles of Confederation each State retained its soveteignty,
freed6m, and independence, and every power, jurisdiction,
and right not expressly delegated to the United States.
Under the Constitution, though the powers of the States
were much restricted, still, all powers not delegated to the
United States, nor prohibited to the States, are reserved -to
the ,States respectively, or to the people. And we have
already had occasion to remark at this tenrhi, that "the peopie of each 8tate compose a State, having its own ,government, and endowed with all the functions essential to separate
and independent existence," and that "without the States
.in union, there could be no such political bodyias the'United States."* Not only, therefore, can there be no loss of
separate and independent autonomy to the States, through
their union under the Constitution, lut it may be not uu-,
reasonable said'that the preservation of the States, and the
maintenant: of their governments, are as much withini the
design and care of the Constituotion as the preservation of
the Union and the maintenance of the National government.
The Constituti6n,'in all its provisions, looks to an indestructible Union, .composed of indestructible States.
* County of Lane v.The-State of Oregon, supra, p' 76.

TEXAS V. WHITE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

When, therefore, Texas became one of the United States,
she entered into an indissoluble relation. All the obligations of perpetual union. and all the guaranties of republican government in the Union, attached at once to the State.
The act which consummated her admission into the Union
was something more tin. a compact; it was the incorporation of a new member into the political body. And it was
fimal, The union between Texas and the other States was
as complete, as perpetual, and as indissoluble as the union
between the original States.rThere was no place for reconsideration, or revocation, except through revolution, or
through consent of the States.
Considered therefore as transactions under the Coustitution, the ordinance of secession, adopted by the convention

and ratified by a majority ofthe citizens of Texas, and all
the acts of her legislature intended to give effect to that
ordinance, were absolutely null. They were utterly without
operation in law. The obligations of the State, as a member of the Union, and of every citizen of the State, as a citizen of the United States, remained perfect and unimpaired.
It certainly follows that the"State did not cease to be a State,
nor her citizens to be citizens of the Union. It this were
otherwise, the State must 'have become foreign, and her
citizens foreigners. The war must have ceased to be a war
lbr the s'uppression of rebellion, and must have become a war
for conquest and subj ugation.
Our conclusion therefore is, that Texas continued to be a
State, and a State of the Union, notwithstanding the transactions to which we have referred. And this co1nclusion, in
our judgment, is not in conflict with any act or declaration
of any department of the National government, but entirely
in accordance with the whole series of such acts and declarations since the first outbreak of the rebellion.
But in order to the,exercise, by a State, of the right to sue
in this court, there needs to be a State government, competent to r;epresent the State in its relations with the National

Dec. 1868.1

T .xAs V. WHITE.
Opinion of the court.

government, so far at least as the institution"and p'rosecution of a suit is concerned.
And it is by no means a logical conclusion, from the prem.
ises which we have endeavored to establish, that the governmental relations.of Texas t& the Union remained unaltered. Obligations often remain unimpaired, while relations
are greatly changed. The .obligations of alleganee to the
State, and of obedience't0 her law's,subject to the Constitution of the United States, are binding, upon all citizens,
whether faithful oi unfaithful to them; 'but the.,rlations
which subsist while these obligations are performed, are
essentially different from those which arise when they are
disregarded and set at nought. ' And the same must neces.
sarily be true of 'the obligations and relatidhs -of States and citizens to the Union. No one has been.bold enough to contend that, while Texas was controlled by a government hostile to the United States, alnd in affiliation witha hostile
confederation, waging war upon the United State , senators
chosen by her legislatqure, or representatives elected by her"
citizens, were entitled to seats in Congress; or that any suit,
instituted in her name, could be entertained in this court,
All admit that, during 'this Condition of civil war, the kights,
of the State as a member, and of her people as citizens 'ofthe
Union, were suspended. The government id the citizens
-of the State, refusing to recognize their constitutional obligations, assumed the character of enemies, and incurred the
consequences of rebellion.
LThese new relations imposed new duties upon the United
States. The firstwas that of suppressing the rebellion. The
-next'was that of 're-establishing the broken relations of theState with the Union.: The first of these duties having beeni
performed., the next necessarily engaged the attentioa of the
Xtational government.
The authority for the performance of the first had been
found in the power to suppress insurrection and ca'ry on
war; for the performance of the second, authority was derived from the obligation of the United States to guarantee
to every State in the Union a. republican forin of govern

TEXAS V.

'WHITE.

[Sup. (X.

Opinion of the court.

ment. The latter, indeed, in the case of a rebellion which
involves the government of a State,'and for the time excludes
the National authority from its limits, seems to be a necessary complem'ent to the former.
.Of this, the case of Texas furfiishes a striking illustration.
When the war closed there was no government in the State
except that which had been organized for the purpose of
waging war against the United States. That government
immediately disappeared. The chief functionaries left the
State. Many of tWe subordinate officials followed their example. Legal responsibilities were annulled or greatly imipaired. It was inevitable that great confusion should prevail. If order was maintained, it was where the good sense
and virtue of the citizens gave support to local acting magistrates, or supplied more directly the needful restraints.
A great social change increased the difficulty of the situation. Slaves, in the insurgent States, with certain local
exceptions, had been declared free by the Proclamation of
Emancipation; and whatever questions might be made a to

the efect of that act, under the Constitution, it was clear,
from the beginning, that its practical operation, in conner..
tion with legislative acts of like tendency, must be complete
enfranchisement. Wherever the National forces obtained
control, the slaves became freemen. Support to the acts of
Congress and the proclamation of the President, concerning
slaves, was made a condition of amnesty* by President Lincoln, in December, 1863, and by President Johnson in May,
1865.t And emancipation was confirmed, rather than .ordaimned, in the insurgent States, by the amendment to thp Constitution prohibiting slavery throughout the Union, which
was proposed by Congress in February, 1865, and ratified,
before the 6lose of the following autumn, by the requisite
three-fburths of the States.t
The new freemen necessarily became part of the people,
and the people still constituted the State; for States, like
individuals, retain their identity, though changed to some
413 Stat. at Large, 737

t- Ib. 768.

$ Ib. 774-5.

Oe . 1868:]'

TEXAS V.

WHIITtR.

Opinion of'the court.

extent in their constituent elements. And it was the State,
thus constituted, whiich was .now entitled to the benefit oi
the constitutional guaranty.
'There being ,then no government in Texas .inconstitutional relationp-with the Union, it became the duty of tle
United States to provide for the restoration of s.ch a government. But the restoration of the goyernment whicfli
existed before' the rebellion, withdut a new election of officers, was obviously impossible; and before any such dlection,could be properly held$it was necessary that the old constitution should receive such amendments as would conform its
provisions to the 'new conditibns created by emahcipati6n,
and afford adequate Becurity to the people of the State.
Ii" the exercise'of the power conferred by the guaranty
.clause, as inthe exercise of every other constitutional power,
a discretion in the choice of mean.s is necessarily allowed. It
is essential only that the means must be necessary and proper,
for carrying into executiob the power conferred, throdigh the
restoration of the State to its constitutional relations, under
a republican form of government' and that no. acts be done,
and no aathority exerted, which is either prohibited or qisanctioned by the Constitution.
It 'is not important to review, at length, the measures
which have been taken, under this power, by the executive
and legislalive departments of the National governmentw It
'is proper, however, to observe that almost immediately after
the cessation of organized hostilities, and while the war yet,
smouldered in Texas, the President of the United States issued his proelamation. appointing a provisional governor for
theState, and providing for the assembling of a convention,
with a view to the re-establishment of a republican government, under an amended constitution, and to the yestorati'n
of the State to her proper constitutional relations. A .'convention was accordingly assembled, the constitution amended,
elections held, and a State government, acknowledging its
establisfied.
obligations to the Union,
Whether the action then taken was, in all respecti, war-,
ranted by the Constitution, it is not now.necessary to deter-

TEXAS V."'WHITE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

mine. The power exercised by the President was supposed,
doubtless, to be derived from his constitutional functions, as
commander-in-chief; and, so long as the war continued, it
canviot be denied that hl might institute temporary government within insurgent districts, occupied by the National
forces, or take measures, in any State, for the restoration of
State government faithful to the Union, employing, however,
in such efforts, only sujh means and agents as were authorized by constitutional laws.
But, the power to carry into effect the clause of guaranty
is primarily a legislative power, and resides in Congress.
"Under the fourth article of the Constitution, it rests with
Congress to decide what govern'ment is'the established one
in a StAte. lor, as the United States guarantee to each State
a republican government, Congress must necessarily decide
whnt government is established in the State, Lefore it can
determine whether it is republican or not."
This is the language of the late Chief Justice, speaking
for this court, in a case from Rhode Island,* arising from the
organization of opposing governments in that State. And,
we think that the principle sanctioned by it may be applied,
with even more propriety, to the, case of a State deprived of
all rightful government, by revolutionary violence; though
necessarily limited to cases where the rightful government
is thvs subverted, or in imminent danger of being overthrown by an opposing government, set up by force within
the State.
The action of the President must, therefore, be considered
as provisional, and, in that light, it seems to have been regarded by Congress. It was taken after the term of the 38th
Congress had expired. The 39th Congress, which assembled
in December, 1865, followed by the 40th Congress, which
met in March, 1867, proceeded, after long deliberation, to
adopt various measures for reorganization and restoration.
These measures were embodied in proposed amendments to
the Constitution, and in the acts known a.s
the Reconstruc.
Luther v. Borden, 7 Howard, 42.

Dec.'1868.]

m

TEXAS V. WHITE.

731

Opinion 6f the court.

tion Acts, which have b(en so far carried into effect, that a
majority ofthe States which were endaged in the rebellion
have been. restored to their condtitutional relations, under
forms of government, adjudged to be republicau by Congress, through tbh admission of tbeir "Senators and Representatives into the Councils of the Union.'Nothing in the case before us requires the court to pronouncejudgment upon the constitutionality of any particulat
provision of these acts.
But, it is important to observe that these. acts themselves:
show that the gov'erumbnts, which bad been etablished gud
had been in actual operation under 'ecutive 'diretion, were
recognized by Congress as provisional, as existing, and as
capable of continuance.
By the 'act of March 2, 1867,* thp first of the series, these
governments were, indeed, pronounced illegal and were subjected to military control, and were declared to be provisional only; and by the supplementarfy act of July 19, 1867,
the third of the seI'ie , it was farther declared that it was the
true intent and meaning of the act of March 2, that the gover:nmenfs then existing were not.legal State 'governients,
hud if continued; were to be continued 'subject io the.military commauderl of the respective districts and to the pa amount authority of Congress. We do not inquire here 'into
the constitutionality of this legislation so far as it relates to'
military authority, or to the paramount authority of Congress. It suffices to say, that the terms of 'the acts necessarily imply 1fecognitiou of actually existing goverbments; and'
that in point of fact, the governments thus recognized, in
some important respects, still exist.
What has thus beenI said generally describes, with suAL-'
cicnt accuracy, the situation of Texas. A provisional gov..
ernor of the State was appointed by the President in 1865in 1866 a governor was elected by the people under,the constitution of that 'ear; at a.subsequent date a governor was
appointed by the commander of the distript. Each of the
14 Stat. at Large, 428.

TEXAS V. WHITE.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

three exercised executive functions and actually represented
the State in the executive department.
In the case before us each has given his sanction to the
pirosecution of the suit, and we find no difficulty, without
investigating the legal title of either to the executive office,
in holding that the sanction thus given sufficiently warranted
the action of the solicitor and counsel in behalf of the State.
The necessary conclusion is that the suit was instituted and
is prosecuted by competent authority.
The question of jurisdiction being thus disposed of, we pro'ceed to the consideration of the merits as presented by the
pleadings and the evidence.
And the first question to be answered is, whether or not
the title of the State to the bonds in 6onti aversy was divested
by the contract of the military board with White and Ohiles?
That the bonds were the property of the State of Texas on
the 11th of January, 1862, when the act prohibiting alienation without the indorsement of the governor, was repealed,
admits of no question, and is.not denied. They came into
her possession and ownership through public acts of the
general government and of the State, which gave notice
to all the world of th6 transaction consummated by them.
And, we think it clear that, if a State, by a public act of
her legislature, imposes restrictions upon the alienation of

her property, that every person who takes a transfer of such
property must be held affected by notice of them. Alienation in disregard of such restrictions, can donvey no title to
the alienee.
In this case, however, it is said that the restriction imposed by the act of 1851 was repealed by the act of, 1862.
And this is true if the act of 1862 can be regarded as valid.
But, was it valid?
The legislature of Texas, at the time of the repeal, constituted one of the departments of a State government,
established in hostility to the Constitution of the United
States. It cannot be regarded, therefore, in the courts of
the United States, as a lawful legislature, or its acts as lawful

Dec. 1868.]

TEXAS, t. 'WHITE.
Opinion of the court.

acts. And; yet, it is an historical fact that the government of
Texas, then in full control of the State, was its only actual
government; and certainly if Texas had been a separate
State, and not one of the United States, the new government,
having dibplaced the regular authority, and having established itself in the customary seats of power, and in the exercise of the ordinary functions of administration, would
have constituted, in the strictest sense of the words, a de

facto government, and its acts, during the period of its existence as such, would be effectual', and, in almost all respects, valid. And, to some extent, this is true of the actual
government of Texas, though unlawful and revolutionary,
as to the United States.
It is not necessary to att-mpt any exact definitions, within
which the acts of such a State government must be treated
as valid, or invalid. It may be said, perhaps with sufficient
accuracy, that acts necessary to peace and good order among
citizens, such for example, as acts sanctioning and protecting
marriage and the domestic relations, governing the course
of descents, regulating the eonveyance and transfer of property, real and personal, and providing remedies for injuries
to person and estate, and other similar acts, which would be
valid if emanating from a lawful government, must be regarded in general as valid when proceeding fror4 an actual,
though unlawful government; 'and that acts in furtherance
or support of rebellion against the United States, or intended
to defeat the just rights of citizens, and other acts of like
nature, must, in general, be regarded as invalid and void.
What, then, tried by these general tests, was the character
of the contract of the military board with White and Ohiles?
That board, as we have seen, was organized, not' for the
defence of the State against a foreign invasion, or for its
protection against domestic violetice, within the meaning of
these words as used in the National Constitution, but for the
purpose, under the name of defence, of levying war against
the United States. This purpose was, undoubtedly, unlawful, for the acts which it contemplated are, within the ex.
press definition of the Constitution, treasonable.

TEXAS. V., WHITE.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

It is true that the military board Was subsequently reorganized. 'If consisted, thereafter, of the governor and two
other mnembers, appointed and removable by him and was,
therefore, entirely subordinate to executive control. Its genoral
9bj'ect remained without zhange, but its powers were
"extemed to the control' of all public works and supplies,
and to the aid of producing within the State, by the impot'tation of articles necessaIy and proper for such aid."
And it was insisted in argument on behalf of some of the
defendants, that the contract with White and Chiles, being
for the purchase of cotton-cards and medicines, was not a
contract in aid of the rebellion, but for obtaining goods capable of a use entirely. legititmate and inuocent, and, therefore, that, payment for those goods by the transfer of any
property of the State was not unlawful. We cannot adopt
this view. Without entering, at this time, upon 'the inquiry
whether any 'contract made by stich a board can be sustained,
we are obliged to say that the enlarged powers of the board
appear to us to have been conferred in furtherance of its
anaiii purpose, of war against the United States, and that the
contract, under consideration, even i f'madc in the execution
of these 'enlarged powers, was* still a contract in aid of the
rebellion, and, therefore, void.- And we cannot shut our
eyes to the evidence which proves that the act of repeat was
intended to aid rebellion by facilitating the transfer of these
bonds. It was supposed, doubtless, tlkat negotiation of them
would be less diflicult if they bore upon their face no direct
evidence of having come from the possessiol of any insurgent State government. We can give no effect, therefore,'
to this repealing act.
It follows that the title of the State was not: divested by
the act of the insurgent government in entering into this
coitr'ct.
But it'was insisted further, in behalf of those defendanis
who claim certain of these bonds by purchase, or as collateral
security, that however unlawful may have been the means
by which White iud Chiles obtained possession of the bonds,

Dec. 186S.]

TEXAS V.

"WHITE.

Opinion of the tourt. -

they are innocent holders, wvithout notice, and entitled to
protection as such under the rules which apply io securities
which pass by delivery. These rules were fully discussed in
.Murray v. Lardner.* We held in that case that the purcbaser of coupon bonds, beford due, without notice and i,
good faith, i s unaffected by'want of title in the seller, and
that the burden of proof in respect to notice and want of
good faith, is pn the claimant of the bonds as against the
purchaser. We are entirely satisfied with this doctrine.
Does the State, then, show affirmatively notice to these
defendants of want of title to the bonds in White and Chiles?
It Would be difficult to give, a negative -answer to this
question if there *were no other. proof than the legislative
acts of Texas. But there is other evidence which might
fairly be held to be sufficient proof of notice, if the rule to
.which we have -adverted could be properly applied to this
case.
But these rules have never been applied to matured obligations. Purchasers of notes or bonds past due take nothing
but the actual right and title of the vendors.t
The-bonds in questioi were dated January 1, 1851, and,
were redeeinable after the 31st of December, 1864. In strictness, it is true they were not payable on the day when they
became redeemable; but the known usage of the United
States.to pay all bonds as soon as the right of payment accrues, except where a distinctiqn between redeeimability and
payability is made by law, and shown on the face of the
bonds, requires the application of the rule respecting over'due obligations to bonds of the United States which 'have
become redeemable, and in respect to which no such distinction has been made.
Now, all the bonds in controversy had become redeemable
before the date of the contract witl White and Chiles; and
all bonds of the same issue which have the indorsement ot
* 2 Wallace, 118.

t- Brown v. Davies, 8 Term, 80; Goodman v. Simonds, 20 Howard, 866.

TEXAP V. WHITE.

[Sup1. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

a governor of Texas made before the date of the secession
ordinance,-and there were no others indorsed by ,any governor,-bad been paid in coin on presentatioii at the Ireasiry
Department; while, on the contrary, applications for the
payment of bonds, without the required indorsement, aud
of coupons detached from such bonds,, made to that dep.rtment, had been denied.
As a necessary consequence, the negotiatiphn of,these bonds
oecame difficult. They sold much below the rates they
would have commanded had the title to them been unquestioned. They were bought in fact, and under the circumstances could only have been bought, upon speculation. The
purchasers took the risk of a bad title, hoping, doubtless,
that through the action of the National government,.or of
the goveInment of Texas, it might be converted into a good
one.
And it is true that the first provisional governor of Texas
encouraged the expectation that these bonds would be ultiniately paid to'the holders. But he was not authorized to
make any engagement in behalf of the State, and in fact
made none. It is true, also, that the Treasury Department,
influenced perhaps by t1iesb representations, departed to
sone extent fiom its original rule, and paid bonds held by
some of the defendcants without the required indorsement.
But it is clear.that this change in the action of the department could not afect the. rights of Texas as a State of the
Union, having a government acknowledging her olbligations
to the National Constitution.
It is impossible, upon this evidence, to hold the defendants
protected by absence of notice of the want of title in 'White
and Ohiles. As these persons acquired no rigit to payment
of these bonds 'as against the 'tate, purchasers could acquire
none through them.
On the whole case, therefore, our conclusion is that the
State of Texas is entitled to the relief sought by her bill, and
a decree must be made accordingly.*
* See the decree, infra, p. 741.

Dec. 1868.]

TEXAS V.

"WHITE.'

Opinion of Grier, J., dissenting;..

Mr. Justice GRIER, dissenting.

I regret that I am compelled to dissent from the opinion
of the majority of the court on all the poidts rai'sed aid
decided in this case.
The first question in order is the jurisdiction of the court
to entertain this bill in behalf of the State of Texas.
The original jurisdiction of this court can be invoked only
by one of the United States. The Territories have no uch
right conferred on them by the Constitution, nor have the
Indian tribes who are under the protection of the military
"authorities of the government.

Is Texas one of these United States? Or was she such, at
the time this bill was filed, or since?
This is to be decided'as a politicdalfact, not as a legalftion.
This court is bound to know and notice the publi.c history.
of the nation.
If I regard the truth of history for the last eight years, I
cannot discover the State of Texas as one of these United
States. I do not think it necessary to notice any of the very
astute arguments which have been advanced by the learned
counsel in this case, to find the definition of a State,..wheu
we have.the subject treated in a clear and common senge
manner by Chief Justice Marshall, in the case of llepburn J
Dundassv. BEllxey.* As the case is short, I hope to be excused for a full report of it, as stated and decided by the
court. He says:
"The question is, whether the plaintiffs, as residents of the
District of Columbia, can maintain an action in the Circuit
Court of the, United States for the. District of Virginia. This
depends on the act of Congress describing the jurisdiction of

that court. The act gives jurisdiction to the Circuit Couits in.
cases between a citizen of the State in which the suit is brought,
and a citizen of another State. To support the jurisdiction in
this case, it must appear that Columbia is a State. Onthepart
of the plaintiff, it has been urged that Columbia is a distinct
political society, and is, therefore, a 'State' according to the
• 2 Crunch, 452.
VOL. VIL

47

T9XAs V. WHIT.H.

[$up CL

Opinion of Grier, J., dissenting.

definition of *riters on, general law. This is true; but as the
act of Congre*'s obviously uses the word ' State' in reference to
that term as used in the Constitution, it becomes necessary to
inquire whether Columbia is a State in the sense of that instrument. The result of that examination is a conviction that the
members of the American Confederacy only are the States contemplated in the Constitution. The House of Representatives
is to be composed of members chosen by the people of the several
States, and each State shall have at least one representative.
' The Senate of the United States shall be composed of two senators from each State.' Each State shall appoint, for the elec,tion of the executive, a number of electors, equal to its whole
number of senators and representatives. These clauses' show
,.at the word ' State' is used in the Constitution as designating
a member of the Union, and excludes from the term the signification attached to it by writers on, the law of nations."
Now we have here a clear and well-defined test by which
we may arrive at a conclusion with regard to the questions
of fact now to be decided.
Is Texas a State, now represented by members chosen by
the people of that State and received on the floor of'Congress? Has she two senators to represent her as a State in
the Sepate of the United States ? Has -her voice been heard
in the late election of President? Is she not now held and
governed as a conquered province by military force? The
act of Congress of March 2d, 1867, declares Texas. to be a
"rebel State," and provides for its government until a legal
and republican State government could be legally established.
It constituted Louisiana and Texas. the fifth military district,
and made it subject, not to the civil authority, but to the
." military authorities of the United States."
It is true that no organized rebellion now exists there, and
the courts of the United States now exercise jurisdiction'
over the people of that province. Bit this is no test of the
State's being in the Union; Dacotah is no State, and yet the
courts of the United States administer justice there as they
do in Texas. The Indian tribes, who are governed by military force, cannot claim to be States of the Union. Wherein
does the condition of Texas differ from theirs?

Dec. 1868.]

TEXAS V. WHITE.
Opinion of Grier, J., dissenting.

Now, by assuming or admitting as a fact the present status
of Texas as.a State not inthe Union politically, I beg leave
to protest against any chai'ge of inconsistency as to judicial
opinion heretofore expressed as a member of this court, or
silently assented to. I do not consider myself bound to
express any opinion judicially as to the cbfistitutional right
of Texas to exercise the rights and privileges of a; State of
this Union, or the power of Congress to govern. her as a
conquered province, to subject her to* military domination,
and keep her in pupilage. I call only submit to the fict as
decided by the political position of the government; and I
am not disposed to join in any essay to prove Texas to be
a State of the Union, when Congress have decided that she
is not. It is'a question of fact, I repeat, and of fact only.
Politically, Texas is not a State in this Union:- Whether rightfully out of it or not is a question not before the court.
I But conceding now the fact to be as judicially assumed
by my brethren, the next question is, whether she has a
right to repudiate her' contracts? Before proceeding to
answer this question, we must notice a. fact in this case that
was forgotten in the argument. I mean that tha United
States are no partyto this suit, and refusing to pay'the bonds
because the money paid would.be used to advance the interests of the rebellion. It is a matter of utter -insignificance
to the government of the United States to whom she makes
the payment of these bonds. They are payable to the bearer.
The g6vernment is not bound to inquire'into the boa tfides
of the holder, nor whether the State of Taxes has parted
with the bonds wisely or foolishly. And although by the
I econstruction Acts she is required to repudiate all debts
contracted for the purposes of the rebellion, this does not
annul all acts of the State government during the rebellion,
or contracts for other purposes, nor authorize the State to
repudiate them.
Now, whether we assume the State of Texas to be judicially in the Union (though actually out of it) or not, it will
not alter-the case. The contest now is between the State
of Texas and her own citizens. She seeks to annul a con-

TEXAS V. WHITE.

[Sup. CL

Opinion of Grier, J., dissenting.

tract with the respondents, based on the allegation that there
was no authority in Texas competent to enter into an agree.
ment during the rebellion. Having relied upon one fiction,
namely, that she is a State in the Union, she now relies upon
a second one, which she wishes this court to adopt, that she
was not a State atall during the five.years that she was in
rebellion. She now sets up the plea of insanity, and asks
the 'court to treat all her acts made during the disease as
void.
We have had some very 'astute logic to prove that judicially she was not a State at all, although governed by her own
legislature and executive as "a distinct political body."
The ordinance of secession was adopted by the convention
on the 18th of February, 1861; submitted to a vote of the
people, and ratified by an overwhelming majority. I admit
that this was a very ill-advised measure. Still it was the
sovereign act of a sovereign State, and the verdict on the
trial of this question, "by battle,"* as to her rightto secede,
has been against her. But that verdict did not settle any
question not involved in the case. It did not settle the
question of her right to plead insanity and set aside all her
contracts, made during the pending of the trial, with her
own citizens,, for food, clothing, or medicines. The same
"organized political body," exercising the sovereign power
of the State, which required the indorsement of these bonds
by the governor, also passed the laws authorizing the disposal of them without such indorsement. She cannot, like
the chameleon, assume the color of the object to which she
adheres, and ask this court to involve itself in the contradictory positions, that she is a State in the Union and was
never out of it, and yet not a State at all for four years,
during which she acted and claims to be "an organized
political body," exercising all the powers and functions of
an independent sovereign State. Whether a State de facto
or de jure, she is estopped from denying her identity in disputes with her own citizens. If they have not fulfilled their
Prize ('a-e,, 2 Black, 673.

Dec. 1868.]

TEXAS v. WAITE.
upinion of Swayne and Miller, JJ., dissenting.

contract, she can have her legal remedy for the breach of it
in her own courts.
But the case of Hardenberg differs from that of the other
defendants. lHe purchased the bonds in open market, bond
fide, and for a full consideration. Now, it is to be observed
that these bonds are payable to bearer, and that this court
is appealed to as a court of equity. The argument to justify
a decree in favor of the commonwealth of Texas as against
lHardenberg, is simply this: these bonds, though payable to
bearer, are redeemable. fourteen years from date. The government has exercised her privilege of paying the interest
for a term without redeeming the principal, which gives an
additronal value to the bonds. Ergo, the bonds are dishonored. -Ergo, the former owner has a right to resume the
possession of them, apid reclaim them from a bongfide owner
by a decree of a court of equity.
This is the legal argument, when put in the form of a
logical. sorites, by which Texas invokes our aid to assist her
in the perpetration of this great wrong.
A cou,'t of chancery is said to be a court of conscience;
and however astute may be the argument introduced to,
defend'this decree, I can only say that neither my reason
nor my conscience can give assent to it.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE:
I concur with my brother Grier as to the incapacity of the
State of Texas, in her present condition, to maintain an
original suit in this court. The question, in my judgment,
is one in relation to which this court is bound by the action
of the legislative department of the government.
Upon the merits of the case, I.agree with the majority
of my brethren.
I am authorized to say. that my brother MILLER unites
with me in these views.
TnE DECREE.

The deoree overruled the objection interp9sed by way of plea,
in the answer of defendants to the authority of the solicitors of

742

TEXAS V. WHITE.

[Sup. Ct.

The decree.

the complainant to institute this suit, and to the right of Texas,
as one of the States of' the National Union, to bring a bill in
this court.
It declared the contract of 12th January. 1865, between the
Military Board and White and Chiles void, and enjoined White
and Chiles from asserting any claim under it, and decreed that
the complainant was entitled to receive the bonds and coupons
mentioned in the contract, as having been transferred or sold
to White and Chiles, which, at the several times of service of
process, in this suit, were in the possession, or under the con-;ol of the deflndants respectively, and any proceeds thereof
which had come into such possession or control, with notice of
the equity of the complainant.
It enjoined White, Chiles. Hardenberg, Birch, MNurray, Jr., and
other defendants, from setting up any claim to any of the bonds
and coupons attached, described in the first article of said contract, and that the complainant was entitled to restitution of
such of the bonds and coupons and proceeds as had come into
the possession or control of the defendants respectively.
And the court, proceeding to determine for which and how
many bonds the defendants respectively were accountable to
make restitution of, or make good the proceeds of, decreed that
Birch and Alurray were so accountable for eight, numbered in
a way stated in the decree, with coupons attached; and one
Stewart (a deiindant mentioned in the note at page 702). accountable for four others, of which thQ rumbers were given,
with coupons; decreed that Birch and Murray, as also Stewart,
should deliver to the complainant the bonds fbr which they were
thus made accountable, with the coupons, and execute all necessary transfers and instruments, and that payment of those bonds,
or any of them. by the Secretary of the Treasury, to the coi.
p!:inant, should be an acquittance of Birch and Murray. and of
Stewart, to that extent, and that for suh payment this decree
should be sufficient warrant to the secretary.
And, it appearing-the decree went on to say-upon the plead.
ings and proofs, that before the filing of the bill, Birch and
-n1array had received and collected from the United States the
full amount of four other bonds, numbered, &c., and that liardenberg, before the commencement of the suit, had deposited
thirty-four bonds, numbered, &c., in the Treasury Department for
redemption, of which bonds he claimed to have received payment

.Dec. 1868.1

ROLAND V.. UNITED

STATES.

Statement of the case.

from the'Secretaryof the Treasury before the service of process
upon him in this suit, in respect to which payment and the effect
thereof the counsel for the saia Birch ana Murray, and. for the
said Hardenberg respectively, desired to be heard, it was ordered
that time for such hearing should be given to the'said. parties.
Both the complainant and the defendants had 1lberty to apply
for further directions in respect to the execution of the decree.

ROLAND V. UNITED STATES.
A grant of land in California, purporting to have been made by Governor
Pio Pico, on tbe,2d of May, 1846, and insufficient on the archive papers,
decided not to be helped by papers produced by the claimant; these
-being found by the court, upon the evidence in the case, not genuine,
but an afterthought, and produced in court only because thle growth
of California had stimulated the cupidity of speculators to experiment
with fragments of title-papers left unfinished by Pico, and which were
gathered up by.our officers on the conquest of the country.

APPEAL from the District Court for the NortheruwDistrict
of California, respecting a land claim, under the act of March
3d, 1851. The grant purported to have been made on the
2d of May, 1846, by Pio Pico; Moreno being secretary ad
inteiri,; this court having decided that, after the 7th July,
1846, Pico had no powers as governor. The claim was.for
"eleven.leagues of land in California, at the junction of the
San Joaquin and Stanislaus rivers." The expediente was"
obtained from the archives, and 'vas among the papers of
which Hiartwell made an index. . It consisted of a petitioln
margiual order that the title issue, decree of concession, and
the borrador, or draft, of the title, ti be given to the party
iiterested. It differed from other expedientes in this: that
th'ere was no report, no diseflo, no approval by the Departrneihtal Assembly, and because the whole proceedings were
begun and consummated on the same day. This document
not being enough to establish the title, the claimant, in
order to make it complete, produc6d from his own, cudtody

