272

RAILROAD COMPANY V. SCHURMEIR.

[Sup. (t.

Syllabus.

If, since the commencement of this suit, the plaintiff has
acquired a title to the land, as he insists, that title can be
asserted only in a new action.* After the decision by this
court, the court below had no power but to enter a judgment
according to the mandate, and to carry that judgment into
execution. This was the enid of the case.t
The judgment before us is REVERSED. The cause will be
remanded to the Circuit Court, with directions to enter a
judgment
IN CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. SCHURMEIR.
1. The meander-lines run in surveying fractional portions of the public
lands bordering upon navigable rivers, are run, not as boundaries of
the tract, but for the purpose of defining the sinuosities of the banks of
the stream. and as the means of ascertaining the quantity of the land in
the fraction, ana which is to be paid for by the purchaser.
2. Congress, in providing, as it does, in one or more acts relating to the
survey and sale cf public lands bordering upon rivers-that navigable
rivers, within the territory to be surveyed, should be deemed to be publie highways, and that where the opposite banks of any stream, not
navigable, should belong to different persons, the stream and the bed
thereof should become common to both-meant to enact that the common law rules of riparian ownership should apply in the latter case, but
that the title to lands bordering on navigable streams should stop at
the stream, and not come to the mediumfilum.
3. But such riparian proprietors have the same right to construct suitable
landings and wharves, for the convenience of commerce and navigation,
as riparian proprietors on navigable waters, affected by the ebb and flow
of the tide.
4. A government grant of land in Minnesota (9.28 acres), bounded on one
side by the Mississippi, was heid to include a parcel (2.78 acres) four feet
lower than the main body, and which, at very low water, was separated
from it by a slough or channel twenty-eight feet wide, tbrough which no
water flowed, but in which water remained in pools; where, at medium
water, it flowed through the depression, making an island of the parcel;
and where, at high water, the parcel was submerged; the whole place
* McCool v. Smith, 1 Black, 459.

t Ex parte Dubuque and Pacific Railroad Co., 1 Wallace, 73.

Dec. 1868.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V.

SCHURMEIR.

973

Statement of the case.
having, previous to the controversy, been laid out as a city, and the
municipal authorities having graded and filled up the place to the river
edge of the parcel.
5. If, by the laws in force in Minnesota, in 1859, the recording of a town oi
city plot, indicating a dedication, for a public purpose, of certain parts
of the land laid out, operated as a conveyance, in fee, to the town or city,
yet, it could operate only as a conveyance of the fee, subject to the purpose indicated by the dedication, and subject to that it must be held by
any future claimant.

to.the Supreme Court of Minnesota.
Schurmeir filed a bill in one of the inferior courts of Minnesota, to enjoin the St. Paul and Pacific Railroad Company
from taking possession, and building its railroad upon, certain ground in the city of St. Paul, Minnesota, bordering
on the Mississippi, and originally a fractional section of the
public lands. The place was alleged, by Schurmeir, to be a
public street and landing.
The railroad company justified their entry, as owner, in
fee of the locus in quo. The issues between the parties were
tried by a referee, who found both facts and law in favor of
Schurmeir. The facts, so found, being undisputed, the case
was removed, for decision on them, to the Supreme Court
of the State. That court affirming the referee's judgment,
the case was here-for review.
The case-to understand which well, it is necessary to
refer, in a preliminary way, to certain statutes of the United
States governing the surveys and descriptions of public
lands--was thus:
Certain statutes enact,* that the public lands shall be subdivided into townships, sections, and quarter sections, and
that these subdivisions shall be bounded by north and south
and east and west lines, unless where this is rendered impracticable by meeting a navigable water-course,&c. The boundaries, and contents of the several sections and quarter sections, are to be ascertained in conformity to the following
principles:
ERROR

*. Acts of May 18, 1796, 1 Statutes at Large, 446; May 10, 1800, 2 Id.: 73;
and February 11th, 1805, 2 Id. 3J3.
VOL. VIL"

18

274

RAILROAD COMPANY V. SOHURMEIR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

"The boundary line actually run, and marked in the surveys
returned, shall be established as the proper boundary lines of
the sections or subdivisions for which they were intended; and
the length of such lines, as returned, shall be held and considered as the true length thereof; and the boundary lines which
shall not have been actually run and marked as aforesaid, shall
be ascertained by running straight lines from the established
corners to the opposite corresponding corners; but, in those
portions of the fractional townships where no such opposite corresponding corners have been, or can be fixed, the said boundary
lines shall be ascertained by running from the established corners, due north and& south or east and west lines (as the case
may be), to the water-course, . or other external boundary of such
fractionaltownship."
There is apparently no law which requires what is hereafter spoken of, and called the "meandering" of watercourses; but the acts of Congress, above referred to, do require the contents of each subdivision to be returned to, and
a plat of the land surveyed, to be made by the surveyor-genera]; and this makes necessary an accurate survey of the
meanderings of the water-course, where a water-course is
the external boundary; the line showing the place of the
water-course, and its sinuosities, courses, and distances, is
called the 11meander - line."*
The original act of 17th May, 1796, providing for the sale
of these lands, enacts, "that all navigable rivers within the
territory to be disposed of, shall be deemed to be, and remain public highways; and in all cases where the opposite
banks of any stream, not navigable, shall belong to different
persons, the stream and the bed thereof shall be common to
both."t
The premises on which the railroad company sought to
enter, were situated upon a fractional section, duly surveyed
by the government surveyor, in October, 1847; the survey
* See the able opinion of Wilson, 0. J., in 10 Minnesota, 99, 100, from
which this account is extracted.

t And s:e act of April 16, 1814, 8 Statutes at Large, 126, as explained by
act of Feb:uary 27, 1815, Ib. 21b.

Dec. 1868.]

RAILROAD

O0MPAfY

V. SCHURMEIR.

275

Statement of the case.

duly approved in March, 1848, and returned to the General
Land Office. This fractional section was designated by this
survey as lot 1, in section 5, township 28, nor.th of range 22,
west of the fourth principal meridian. It was represented
by the plat thereof, as bounded on the north by the east and
west sectional line, on the west by the north and south sectional line, and on the only other remaining side by.the
Mississippi River. It was this river that interposed and
made this section a fractional one."

16.90

ot.

5.

At the time of the survey, there was a parcel of land
(called by the counsel on one side, a sand-bar, reef, or "towhead,". and by the counsel on thd bther, an. island) lying
along the shore of the river, about four feet lower than the
main land of the fraction, and with a channel or slough between it and the main land. This depression was about 28
feet wide, and the bar or island, in its extreme width, was
about 90 feet. Its extreme length was about 160 feet. The
main body contained 9.28 acres; this parcel, 2.78 acres.
In high water this parcel of land outside was completely
under water; in medium water it was exposed to view, and
the water flowed through the depression;. but, at very low
water there was no flow of water through the depression.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. SCHURMEIR.

[sup.

CtL

Statement of the case.

It lay in pools in the depression. Very low water-mark
was thus the exterior part of the bar or island, and the landing-place for boats plying on the Mississippi had always been
the south or river side of the island.
In the government survey, no mention of, or reference to,
this bar or island, was in any way made in the field-notes,
plat, or map. The fractional parcel, as already said, was
represented as lying immediately upon, and bounded by,
the Mississippi River.
The surveyor, however, in meandering the course of the
river along the fraction, ran the "meander-lines" along the
main land of the shore, and not along the southerly line of
this bar or island, and thus did not include the space occupied by this depression, and bar or island, in his estimate of
the quantity of laud contained in the fraction. The fieldnotes showed that the line running 12.83 south, from corner
sections 5 and 6, intersected the bank of the Mississippi
River, and that a meander-ppst was ±bere set; also, that
at a point 16.90 east of said section Corner, the township
line intersected the left bank of the Mississippi River, and

16.90
1o. 1.

N

S
that a meander-post was there also set. The meander-lina
was run, beginning at last-mentioned meander-post, "thence

Dec. 1868.] RAILROAD COMPANY V. SCHURMEIR.

277

Statement of the case.

up stream, south 61, west 6.50; south 54, wdst 6.00; south
46, west 5.00; south 40, west 3.96, to line of sections 5 and
6, at lower end of St. Paul."
In March, 1849, the United States sold and conveyed the
land to one Roberts; the patent describing the lot (along
with another fractional section, styled o. 2, not connected
with this case) as containing so many acres, "according to
the official plat of the survey;" a plat which, as alread said,
did not present the bar or island, in any way, nor the channel or slough between, but presented the river as the boundary; much as in the map on the page opposite (page 276).
In the same spring, Roberts surveyed, laid out, and platted the whole of this fractional parcel (including the bar or
island, and intervening depression, in his plat, and as apart
of the grant of his patent) into towns, blocks, lots, streets,
&c., constituting a part of the town of St. Paul, and caused
said plat to be duly recorded; an -act which, by the laws of
Wisconsin (at that time in force in Minnesota), operated to
vestthe fee simple of every donation or grant to the public,
or any corporation or body politic, in it, for the uses therein
named, and.no other; and which declared, that "land intended to be for streets, alleys, ways, commons, or other public
use, . . . or for any addition thereto, shall be held in the

corporate name, in trust, to and for the uses and purposes
set forth, and expressed or intended." Roberts subsequently
sold to Schurmeir two lots, designated on the plan as lots
Nos. 11 and 12, in block 29. All the space in front of this
block, and between this block and tlhe river, was designated
as "Landing;" and as soon as St. Paul was organized into a
city, it exercised municipal control over the space, 'established a grade, and caused the place to be more or less
graded; maintaining it as a landing. Schurmeir's two lots,
and the whole of the so-cealled "landing," were. situated
upon what had been the slough or channel.
In 1856, and after this depression had been filled,and the
whole space between the. lots and the river, including the
depression, and the bar or island, had been graded by the.
city, and traces 6f both had been effaced, the space origi-

278

RAILROAD

COMPANY V.

SCHURMEIR.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the railroad company.

nally occupied by this bar or island, was surveyed by a government surveyor, and platted and mapped as "Island No
11," in said section 5.
By virtue of this survey, the railroad company claimed the
title under a Congressional land grant of May 22, 1857.
The important question in the case was, therefore, this:
By what exact line-was the grant bounded on the river side?
Was it1. By either the medium. filum of the Mississippi, or the
outside of the sand-bar or island? Or was it2. By the meander-lines run by the surveyor?
If by either of the former, the railroad company had no
right.
If by the latter, Schurmeir had none.
A minor question was, whether-supposing Roberts to
have owned the parcel originally-he had, or had not, under
the statutes then in force in Minnesota, divested himself of
such right by recording his town plot?
Mr. T. A. fendricks, for the railroadcompany, plaintiff in
error:
The land system of the United States was designed to provide, in advance, with mathematical precision, the ascertainment of boundaries. The purchaser takes by metes and
bounds. These rules are settled, and accordingly the township line at the north, the section line at the west, and the
meander-line on the remaining side-a line beginning and
ending at posts, and running by courses, described between
them-must constitute the boundary here. In no other way
can the rules be conformed to. By the pretensions of the
opposite counsel, the purchaser would pay for a little more
than nine acres, and get but little less than twelve. The
lines marked on the ground must thus control.*
But, admit that the land comes to the bank edge. This
is the most the other side can pretend; for the pretension of
Bates v. Railroad Company, 1 Black, 204; Walker v. Smith, 2 Penn.
sylvania State, 43; Younkin v.Cowan, 34 Id. 198; Hall v. Tanner, 4 Id
244.

Dec. 1868.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. SCHURMER.

279

Argument for the riparian owner.

carrying the grant to the middle line of a vast river, is untenable in our country, even at common law,* and plainly in
the face of the statute of May 17, 1796, and other statutes.
What, then, is the bank of a river? It is decided in Pennsylvania,t to be "the continuous margin, where vegetation
ceases." The shore is, on the other hand, decided to be
"the pebbly, sandy, or rocky space between that and low
water-mark." This island, when it was an island, and not
bottom of the river, was four feet below the bank. When
in the condition most favorable to the case of the other side,
it was "sandy space," between very low water-maik and the
bank; not bank, but shore.
In fact, however, it was not, rightly considered, even shore.
In. one condition of the river, it was river bottom; in another
-thb ordinary condition-an island in the river; and only in
a third, and rare condition--" very low water"-did it approach even the character of shore.
We may add, that Roberts, by his dedication of. the land
for a landing, parted with his property, and that his grantee,
Schurmeir, has no title in .it, and cannot now restrain the
railroad from entering on it.
11Th. Allis, contra:
1. The meander-lines are not boundaries. They are not
even known to the laws or acts of Congress. The terni
"meauder': is simply used to designate certain lines, run by
the sarveyors,-along the windings of water-courses, bounding fractions; for the purpose of ascertaining and returnitg
the quantity of land in such fractions. There is no provision in the acts of Congress for meandering a water-course,
or running any line along its bank. But the quantiIy of
land in a fraction must be returned; hence, alone, the surveyor runs lines along the bank.
* Carson v. Blazer, 2 Binney, 475; Bullock v. Wilson, 2 Porter (Ala.
bama), 436; People v. Canal Appraisers, 33 Now York, 461; McManus s
Carmichael, 3 Clark (Iowa), 1.
t McCullough v. Wainright, 2 Harris, 171; and see Storer v. Freeman,. 6
Uassachusetts, 4856; and Lewen v. Smith, 7 Porter (Alabama), 28.

RAILROAD

COM IANY

V.

SCHURMEIR.

[SUp. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

2. If the surveyor make an error in his return, as to the
quantity of the land, or if the quantity is erroneously stated
in the patent, this will not affect the grant. The grantee
will take according to the boundaries of the land described.*
3. Whether the grant extends to the medium filum of the
river, is a point not in the least necessary to be considered;
though we believe it does. Most of the authorities which
would deny this proposition, concede that the riparian owner
takes to low water-mark.t That is all that we need maintain.
4. The record of the town-plot did not make a dedication
of land intended for "streets, alleys, ways, commons, or
other public uses," equivalent to a grant in fee, whatever it
might do by a "donation or grant" marked on the plot.
Even if the plot did so make it, the town was bound to
hold it for the purpose specified-in this case a "landing"
-and Schurmeir, if interested as a citizen, might file his
bill.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
Complainant alleged that he was the owner in fee, and in
the actual possession of the real estate described in the bill
of complaint, together with the stone warehouse thereon
erected. As described, the premises are situated in the
city of St. Paul, county of Ramsey, and State of Minnesota;
and the allegation is, that the lot extends to, and adjoins the

public street and levee which run along the left bank of the
Mississippi River in front of that city; that the said street
and levee constitute the public landing for all steamboats
and other vessels bound to that port, and the place where
all such vessels receive and discharge their freight and passengers; that the street, levee, and public landing, occupy
the whole space between this lot and the bank of the river,
in front of the same, and that he is the owner in fee of that
* Lindsey v. Hawes, 2 Black, 554.

t

Dovaston v. Payne, 2 Smith's Leading Cases, 224-6.

Dec. 1868.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. SCHURMEIR.

281

Opinion of the court.

whole space, subject to the public right to use and occupy
the'same as such street, levee, and public landing.
Based upon these preliminary allegations, the charge is,
that the corporation respondents were then engaged, witiout his license or consent, in extending and constructing
their railroad over and along the said public street, levee, and
landing, in front of his premises, with the design and purpose of running their cars on the same for the transportation
of freight and passengers; and the complainant alleged that
the effect would be, if the design and purpose of the respondents should be carried out, that the said public strbet,
levee, and landing, could not be occupied and usbd for the
purposes for which they were constructed, and to which
they were dedidated, and that his premises would be rendered useless and valueless.
Two defences were set up by the respondents in their
answer.
First. They denied that the fee of the land described in
the bill of complaint, as a public street and levee, or public
landing, was ever in the complainant, or that he ever had
any right, title, or interest in the land between his premises
and the main channel of the river.
Secondly. They alleged that all the land between the premises of the complainant and the river in front, were part and
parcel of the lands surveyed by the United States, and granted
by the act of Congress of the 8d of March, 1857, to the Territory of Minnesota, and that they were the owners of the
same in fee, as the grantees, of the Territory and State, to
aid in the construction of their railroad.
Defence of the 6ther respondents is, that all the acts charged
against them were performed by the direction and under the
authority of the respondent corporation.
Prayer of the bill of complaint was, that the respondent
might be restrained from extending and constructing their
railroad over and along said public street, levee, or landing,
and Prom obstructing and impeding the free use of the same
by the public.
By consert of parties, it was subsequently ordered by the

RAILROAD COMPANY V.,SCHURMEIR.

[8up. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

court, that the cause be referred to a sole referee, to hear
and determine all the issues in the pleadings, and that he
should report his determination to the court. Such a report
was subsequently made by the referee, and the record shows
that the court, in pursuance of the same, enjoined the respondents as prayed in the bill of complaint, and ordered,
adjudged, and decreed that the respondents should remove
from the street, levee, and lauding in front of the complainant's premises, all tracks, trestleworks, embankments, buildings, and obstructions of every kind erected or constructed
thereon by them for railroad purposes.
Appeal was taken by the respondents from the decree, as
rendered in the District Court for that county, to the Supin6me Court of the State, wheie the decree was in all things
affirmed, and the respondents removed the cause into this
court, by a writ of error, sued out under.the twenty-fifth
section of the Judiciary Act.
1. Express finding of the referee was, that the premises
in question w6re included in that part of section five, township twenty-eight north, in range twenty-two. west of the
fourth principal merid'ian, which is situated on the north
side of the centre line of the Mississippi River. He also
found that the survey of that part of section five was made
by the deputy surveyor, October 27, 1847; that the fieldnotes of the snrvey were duly communicated to the surveyor-geneial, and that the latter officer, on the 15th of
March following, duly approved the survey as made by the
deputy surveyor. Same report also shows that a plat of
that part of section five was duly prepared and certified by
the surveyor-general, on the same day, and that it was duly
traismitted to the land office of the district where the land
was situated. B" that plat it appears that the land, as surveyed, consisted of two separate parcels, called lots 1 and 2,
in the report of the referee, exhibited in the record. Lot 1,
th'e t'act in'question, is situated in the northwest corner of
the section, and contains the quantity of land described in
the official survey and plat. -Particular description of lot 2
is unnecessary, as it is not in coltroversy in this case.

Dec. 1868.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. SCHURMEIR.
Opinion of the court.

Both of those lots Were purchased by Lewis Roberts, and
on the' 24th of March, 1849, a patent, in due form of law,
was issued to him, for the same, by the proper officers of
the United States. Possessed of a full title to all the land
described in the patent, the purchaser caused lot 1 to be
surveyed and laid out into town blocks, lots, streets, &c.,
as a part of the town of St. Paul, and the finding of the
referee is, that the plat, as recorded, describes the land as
extending to the main channel of the river. Block 29, as
exhibited on that plat, includes lots 11 and 12, described
in the bill of complaint, and the report of the referee sho.vs
that they are a part of the triangular fraction of land situated in the northwest corner of section 5, as delineated on
the official plat.
Claim of the complainant is to lots 11 and 12, in block
29, and the finding of the referee is, that he holds the saifie
through certain mesne conveyances, from the original grantee
under the patent.
Congress granted to the Territory of Minnesota, by the
act of the 3d of March, 1857, for: the purpose of aiding ill
the construction of certain railroads, every alternate section,
designated by odd numbers, for six sections in width, on each
side of the respective railroads therein mentioned, and their
branches, and the respondents claim title to the premises
described in the pleadings under that act of Congress, as
the grantees of the State.*
Title claimed by the complainant, being of prior date to
that set up by the respondents, will be first examined, because, if it'be sustained as including the premises in controversy, an examination of the title of the respondents will not
be necessary.
Since -the town of St. Paul was organized under her city
charter, passed March 4, 1854, the city government has exercised municipal authority and control over the entire parcel of land lying between the main.channel of the river and
S11 Stat. at Large, 195; State Session Laws, 1857, 70; Gen. Laws, 1858,
9; Session Laws, 1862, 226.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. SCHURMEIR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

block twenty-nine, where the complainant's warehouse is
situated. Claiming entire control over the premises, as a
street, levee, or landing, the city authorities have established
a grade for -the same, and, long before any attempt was made
by the respondents to controvert the title of the complainant,
they had made large progress in the work of reducing the
surface of the land to the established grade.
Appellants contend that the river is not a boundary in the
official survey; that the tract, as surveyed, did not extend to
the river, but that the survey stopped at the meander-posts
and the described trees on the bank of the river. Accordiijgly, they insist that lot 1 did not extend to the river, but
only to the points where the township and section lines intersect the left bank of the river, as shown by the meanderposts.
The finding of the referee also shows that the meanderline of lot 1 was run, in the official survey, along the left or
north bank of h channel which then existed between that
bank and a certain parcel of land in front of the same, afterwards designated as Island 11, but which was not mentioned
in the field-notes of the official survey, nor delineated on the
official plat.
Conceded fact is, that those field-notes constituted the
foundation of the official plat, and that that plat was the
only one in the local land office at the time the patent was
issued under which the appellee claims. When the water
-in the river was at a medium height, there was a current
in the channel, between what is called the island and the
bank, wherd the meander-posts were located, but when the
water was low, there was no current in that channel, and,
when the water was very high in the river, the entire parcel
of land, designated as the island, was completely inundated.
INo mention is made of any such channel in the official
survey, under which the patent was issued; but the deputy
surveyor, under the instructions of the land office, on-the
13th of March, 1856, made a new survey of the parcel of
land lying between that channel and the maid channel of
the river, and the field-notes of the same were subsequently

Dec. 1868.] RAIL-ROAD COMPANY

V. SOHURMEIR.

285

Opinion of the court.

approved by the surveyor-general. Duplicates of that survey were communicated to the General Land Office, and the
finding of the referee shows that the plat exhibits the true
relation which that tract bears t6 lot 1 in that section. Prior
to that survey, however, the city of St. Paul had filled the
channel, and reclaimed the land at the west end of the same,
and extended the grade of the street and levee, or landing,
entirely across the island to the main channel of the river.
Besides, the uncontradicted fact is, that the landing for boats
and vessels, touching at that port, was always on the kiverside of the island, and the finding of the referee shows that
the front wall of the complainant's warehouse is not more
than four feet north of the southerly line of the lot on which
it is erected.
Surveyors were- directed by the act of Congress of the
20th of May, 1785, to divide the territory, ceded by individual States, into townships of six miles square, by lines
running due north and south, and others crossing these at
right angles, ....
unless where the boundaries of the
tracts purchased from the Indians renderied the same impracticable."*
Congress preserved the same system also in the act of the
18th of May, 1796, in respect to the survey aud sale of the
lands northwest of the Ohio RivTer, but the latter act recognizes two other necessary exceptions to the general rule.t
Public lands therein described were required to be divided
by north and south lines running according to the true meridian, and others crossing them by right angles, so as to form
townships of six miles square, "unless where the line of the
late Indian purchase, or of the tracts of land heretofore surveyed or patented, or the course of navigable rivers, may
render it impracticable." By the ninth section of that act,
it is provided that all navigable rivers within the territory
mentioned in that act, should be deemedto be, and remain,
public highways, and that, in all cases where the opposite
banks of any stream, not navigable, shall belong to different
* I Land Laws, 19.

t 1 Srat. at Large, 46-1.

286

RAILROAD COMPANY V. SCHURMEIR.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

persons, the stream and the bed thereof should become common to both.*
Provision was made by the act of February 11, 1805, that
townships should be "subdivided into sections, by running
straight lines from the mile corners, marked as therein required, to the opposite corresponding corners, and by marking on each of the said lines intermediate corners, as nearly
as possible equidistant from the corners of the sections on
the same." Corners thus marked in the surveys, are to be
regarded as the proper corners of sections, and the provision
is, t hat the corners of half and quarter sections, not actually
run and marked on the surveys, shall be placed, as nearly
as possible, equidistant from the two corners standing on the
same line.t Boundary lines actually run and marked on the
surveys returned, are made the proper boundary lines of
the sections or subdivisions for which they were intended,
and the second article of the second section provides, that
the length of such lines, as returned, shall be held and considered as the true length thereof. Lines intended as boundaries, but which were not actually run and marked, must
be ascertained by running straight lines from the established
corners to the opposite corresponding corners; but where no
such opposite corresponding corners have been, or can be
fixed, the boundary lines are required to be ascertained by
running from the established corners due north and south,
or east and west, as the case may be, to the water-course,
Indian boundary line, or other external boundary of such
fractional township.
Express decision of the Supreme Court of the State was,
that the river, in this case, and not the meander-line, is the
west boundary of the lot, and in that conclusion of the State
court we entirely concur.t
Meander-lines are run in surveying fractional portions of
the public lands bordering upon navigable rivers, not as
boundaries of the tract, but for the purpose of defining the
1 Stat. at Large, 468.
t 2 Id. 313.
: Schurmeier v. The Railroad, 10 Minnesota, 82.
*

Dee. 1868.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. SCHURMEIR.

287

Opinion of the court.

sinuosities of the banks of the stream, and 'as the means of
ascertaining the quantity of the land in the fraction subject
to sale, and which is to be paid for by the purchaser.
In preparing the official plat from the field-notes, the
meander-line is represented as the border-line of the stream,
and shows, to a demonstration, that the water-course, and
not the meander-line, as actually run on the land, is the
boundary.
Proprietors, bordering on streams not navigable, unless
restricted by the terms of their grant, hold to the.centre of
the stream; but the better opinion is, that proprietors of
lands bordering on navigable rivers, under titles' derived
from the United States, hold only to the stream, as the express provision is, that all such rivers shall be deemed to be,
and remain public highways. Grants of land bounded on
rivers above tide-water, says Chancellor Kent, carry the
exclusive right and title of the grantee to the centre of the
stream, unless the terms of the grant clearly denote the intention to stop at the edge or margin of the river, and the
public, in cases where the river is navigable for boats and
rafts, have an easeniet therein, or a right of passage, subject to the juspublicu,'m, as a public highway.*
The views of that commentator are, that it would require
an express exception in the grant, or some clear and unequivocal declaration, or certaih and immemorial usage, to
limit the title of the riparian owner to the edge of the river,
because, as the commentator insists, the stream, when used
in a grant as a boundary, is used as an entirety to the centre
of it, and he consequently holds that*the fee passes to that
extent. Decided cases of the highest authority, affirm -hat
doctrine, and it must, doubtless, be deemed correct in most
or all jurisdictions where the rules of the common law presvail, as understood in the parent country. Except in one
or two States, those rules have been adopted in this country,
as applied to rivers not navigable, when named in a grant or
deed as a boundary to land. Substantially the same rules
8 Commentaries, 11th ed. 427.

288

RAILROAD

COMPANY V.

SCHURMEIR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

are adopted by Congress as applied to streams not navigable;
but many acts of Congress have provided that all navigable
rivers or streams in the territory of the United States, offereil
for sale, should be deemed to be, and remain public highways.*

Irrespective of the acts of Congress, it should be remarked,
that navigable waters, not affected by the ebb and flow of
the tide, such as the great lakes, and the Mississippi River,
were unknown to courts and jurists, when the rules of the
common law were ordained; and even when the learned
commentaries were written, to which reference is made, it
was still' the settled doctrine of this court, that the admiralty
had no jurisdiction except where the tide ebbed and flowed.t
Extended discussion of that topic, however, is unnecessary,
as the court decides to place the decision, in this case, upon
the several acts of Congress making provision for the survey and sale of the public lands bordering on public navigable rivers, and the legal construction of the patents issued
under such official surveys. Such a reservation, in the acts
of Congress, providing for the survey and sale of such lands,
must have the same effect as it would be entitled to receive
if it were incorporated into the patent, especially as there is
nothing in the field-notes, or in the official plat or patent,
inconsistent with that explicit reservation. Rivers were not
regarded'as navigable in the common law sense, unless the
waters were affected by the ebb and flow of the tide, but it
is quite clear that Congress did not employ the words navigable, and not navigable, in that sense, as usually understood
in legal decisions. On the contrary, it is obvious that the
words were employed without respect to the ebb and flow
of the tide, as they were applied to territory situated far
above tide-waters, and in which there were no salt-water
streams.
Viewed in the light of these considerations, the court does
not hesitate to decide, that Congress, in making a distinctiou
* 1 Stat. at Large, 491; 2 Id. 235, 279, 642, 666, 703, 747; 3 Id. 349.
t" The Jefferson, 10 Wheaton, 428; Genesee
Hine v. Trevor, 4 Wallace, 666.

Chief, 19 Howard, 456;

Dec. 1868.]

RAILROAD COMPANWY V.

SCHURMEIR.

289

Opinion of the court.

between streams navigable and those not navigable, intended
to provide that the common law rules of riparian ownership
should apply to lands bordering on the latter, but that the
title to lands bordering on navigable streams should stop at
the stream, and that all such streams should, be deemed to
be, and remain public highways.
Although such riparian proprietors are limited to the
stream, still they also have the same tight to construct suitable landings and wharves, for the convenience of commerce
and navigation, as is accorded riparian proprietors bordering on navigable waters affected by the ebb and flow of the
tide.*
Argument ' is scarcely necessary to show, in view of the
definite regulations of Congress upon the subject'of the Survey and sale of the public lands, that the second survey of
the space between block twenty-nine and the main channel
of the river, cannot affect the title of the complainant as
acquired from the United States under the antecedent official survey and sale.t
Attempt is also made to justify the acts of the respondents, as grantees of the State, upon the ground, that the
complainant, in dedicating the premises to the public as a
street, levee, and landing, parted with all his title to the
same, and that the entire title vested in fee in the State.
Respondents rely for that purpose upon the statute of the
Territory of Wisconsin, which was then in force in the Territory of Minnesota.$
Suppose the construction of that provision, as assumed by
the respondents, is correct, it is no defence to the suit, because it is nevertheless true, that the municipal corporation
took the title in trust, impliedly, if not expressly, designated
by the acts of the party in making the dedication. They
could not, nor could the State, convey to the respondents
any right to disregard the trust, 6r to appropriate the prem* Dutton v. Strong, 1 Black, 23.

t- Lindsey v. Hawes, 2 Black, 554; Bates v. Railroad Company, 1 Id. 204;
Brown v. Clements, 3 Howard, 650.
Stat; tes of Wisconsin Territory 159.
VOL. VU.

19

290

MEAD V. BALLARD.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

ises to any purpose whicb would render valueless the adjoining real estate of the complainant.
Considered in any point of view, our conclusion is, that
the decree of the State court was correct; and the decision
in this case also disposes of the appeal brought here by the
same appellants, from a decree rendered by the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Minnesota, in
favor of George D. Humphreys and others, which was a bill
in equity against the same respondent corporation. The
appeal in that case depends substantially upon the same
facts, and must be disposed of in the same way. Both decrees are
AFFIRMED.

MEAD V.

BALLARD.

1. A grant of land, "said land being conveyed upon the express understanding and condition" that a certain institute of learning then incorporated
"shall be permanently located upon said lands," between the date of the

deed and the same day in the succeeding year, is a grant upon condition,
a condition subsequent.
2- Such permanent location was made and the condition was thus fulfillpd
when the trustees passed a resolution locating the building on the laud.

with the intention that it should be the permanent place of conducting
the business of the corporation.

And this, notwithstanding that the

building erected in pursuance of the resolution was afterwards destroyed
by fire, and the institute subsequently erected on another piece of land.

to the Circuit Court for Wisconsin.
Mead brought ejectment in the court below against Balard to recover certain land which the ancestor of him
(Mead) had conveyed for a full consideration, on the 7th
September, 1847, to Amos Lawrence, of Boston, in fee. The
deed contained the usual covenants of warranty, and also a
clause expressed in these words:
ERROR

"Said land being conve3 d upon the express understanding
and condition that the Lawrence Institute of Wisconsin, chartered by the legislature of said Territory, 6hall be permanently

