Dec. 1868.]

CoCKs v. IZARD.-.
Statement of the case.

the same reasons. Wherever the contamination reaches, it
destroys. The principle to be extracted from all the cases
is, that the law will not lend its support.to a'claim founded
upon its violation.*
The court below erred in iefusing to instruct as prayed,
and in the instructions given.
The judgment below is REVERSED, and the cause, will be
remanded to the Circuit Court, with directions*to issue a
VENIRE DE NOVO.

COCKS V. IZARD.
A bill in equity, by the owner of real estate, sold at public judicial sale, will
lie against a person who, at such sale, has made untrue representations,
which prevent other persons from bidding, and by which he has so,
himself, got the property at an undervalue. The original owner is not
confined to seeking relief through the summary modes, such as motion
to'set aside tho sale, which it was within the power of the court fromiL
which the execution issued, to grant. Maier v. Maxwell (6 Wallace, 276),
affirmed.

from the Circuit Court of Louisiana.
During the late rebellion, one Anderson, by a proceeding
in what was known as "the Provisional Court of Louisiana"
-a court established by proclamation of the President, in
October, i862, when the insurrection which had prevailed in
Louisiana, had temporarily subverted and swept away the
judicial authori ties of the Union, and which, by the terms
of its constitution, was to last only until " the restoration of
the civil authority"-brought some sort of suit against one.
Cocks.
The suit proceeded to execution; and, on execution, the
marshal of the said Provisional Court exposed to public
sale certain real estate owned by Cocks, in New Orleans,
and worth $15,000. Cocks was a resident of Mississippi,
APPEAL

* M1orck v. Abel,83 Bosanquet & Puller, 35; Armstrong v. Toler, 11 Wheaton, 258; Collins v. Blantern, 1 Smith's Leading Cases, 630, and notes.

COCKS V. IZARD.

[Sul). Ct.

Argument against and in support of sale.

and knew nothing of the suit, execution, or exposure to
3ale. At the sale, one Izard, hi§ tenant, who was there,
made A bid of $1500, giving out, and letting it be under,stood, that he was bidding for account of Cocks, and in
his interest. Persons, who were at the sale, thus refrained
from bidding,. from a wish not to compete; and, competition being so prevented, the property was knocked down to
Izard at the sum bid by him.
Izard acknowledged these facts soon after the sale, and
promised to reconvey on receiving the money which he had
advanced. He afterwards refused to do this.
Cocks now filed a bill in the court'below, setting forth the
above facts, that Izard had received in rents, in two years,
$2500; and praying arf account and reconveyance.
Izard demurred, and the court below, sustaining the demurrer, dismissed the bill. Cocks appealed.
Mr. Conway Robinson, for the appellant, asked a reversal of
the decree on these two principal grounds:
1st. That the court which rendered the judgment against
Izard and issued the execution, was not a court competent
to exercise judicial power, consistently with the Constitution
of the United States.
2d. That conceding that the court had jurisdiction, the
proceedings at the sale were, nevertheless, of such a character as to, demand the interposition of a court of equity.
Mr. P. Phillips, contra, contended that the "Provisional
Court," having been established while war was flagrant, and
while the place was in military occupation, was founded on
necessity, and being to last only while the necessity lasted,
That the mere declaration of
had sufficient jurisdiction.
one person, -that he intended to buy for another person, withb
out evidence of any previous agreement to do so, or of any
advance of money for that purpose, raised no trust which
could be supported in equity.*
* Lloyd v. Lynch, 28 Pennsylvania State, 423; Pattison\ . Horn, 1
Grant, 808.

Dec. 1 68.]

DCDCOKS
V. IZARD.

•561

Opinion of the court.

That, independently of this, Cocks ought to have applied
to the'Provisional Court, to set the sale aside and order a
resale.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion qf'the court.'
It was decided by this court, in Slater v. Maxwell,* that
where a judicial sale is impeached for fraud, or unfair practices, of officer or purchaser, to the prejudice of the oWner,
a court of chancery is the proper tribuhal to afford relief,
and this decision only reaffirmed a well-established doctrine
of equity jurisprudence. The present case is within this
rule, and the court below manifestly erred in sustainiffg d,
demirrer to the bill.
The complainant puts his case for relief bu two principal
grounds' The necessities of this case do not require us to
examine and decide the first point.thus raised by him; for
the second, if the averments of the bill are true, affords
ample ground to give the complainant the desired relief.
The bill charges that Cocks, a citizen of the State of Mississippi, was the owner of a valuable dwelling-house and lots
in the city of Iew Orleans, occupied by Izard, as his tenant,
which were seized on judicial process, and ordered to be
sold. It does not appear in what way the court acquired
jurisdiction of the case, but, it is fair.to presume, it w'as
through a proceeding by attachment, a's the complainant
'avers he was witlhout the State, and did not know of either
the judgment, execution, levy, or sale.
In this conditidn of things, the sale took place, andIzard
bought the property for a sum of money hardly equal to its
yearly rental value," This he was enabled to accomplish by
unfair practices, which operated to prevent persons, who
were in attendance at the sale and desirous of purchasing,
from bidding..
These practices were of a character well ealculated to deceive, for it is easy to see that fair-miiuded men, knowing
the"owner of the properky to be absent,-would be inclined
* 6 Wallace, 276.
7OL. V11.

86

COCKS V. IZARD.

[SLIP.

Ct.

Opinion of the court.

to put faith in the declarations of his tenant, that if he purchased, it was on account of his landlord, whose interests he
wished to protect, and would be disinclined to interfere with
the arrangement.
Can it, then, be doubted, if these things are true, that the
conduct of the defendant deprived the complainant of the
advantage which he would have received from a fair sale of
his property, at which there would have been competition
among persons, both able and willing to buy?
The law will not tolerate any influences likely to prevent competition at a judicial sale, and it accords to every
debtor the chance for a' fair sale and full price; and if he
fails to get these, in consequence of the wrongful interference of another party, who has purchased his property,
at a price greatly disproportioned to its value, equity will
step in and afford redress, either by setting aside the proceedings under the sale, or by holding the purchaser to account.
The defendant in this case has behaved badly, and cannot
be allowed to enjoy the fruits of his unfair dealino. The
complainant had a right to expect, after reposing enough
confidence in him to rent him a dwelling-house, that he
would not, in his absence, turn against him, and use this very
relation to his prejudice. Itmay be that, at the time of his
purchase, the defendant intended to carry out his promises,
for, after the sale, he admitted his obligation to do so, but
his cupidity, in the end, got the better of him, as he now
asserts an adverse title in himself.
It is insisted, that the complainant should have availed
himself of the summary mode, by petition or motion to the
court, to have had the sale set aside, and resale ordered;
but this objection cannot prevail. It is needless to inquire
whether he could have obtained his object in this way, as
by not pursuing it,.he did not forfeit his right to sue in
equity, and the defendant has surely no right to complain,
for he has now ample opportunity to make defenceo and vindicate his integrity.
The decree of the Circuit Court of the United States for

Dec. 1868.]

THIE GRAPESHOT.

56 '

Statement of the case.

the District of Louisiana is REVERSED; and the cause4a re-

manded to that court, with directions to proceed
IN

CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

THE GRAPESHOT.
1. Proof that papers, not contained in the record, were used in'the court
below, must be made by affidavit, not by certificate of the clerk.
2. A decree of the, Provisional Court of Louisiana, which was established
•by order of the President, during the rebellion, having been transfetred
into the Circuit Court, in pursuance of an act of Congress, must be regarded, in respect to appeal, as a decree 3f the Circuit Court

UPON two separate motions to dismiss an appegr from the
decree of the Circuit Court of thie United States for the
District of Louisiana; the decree being one transferred
'there under act of Congress, from the late so-called *" Provisional Court" of that'State; both motions being made by
Mr. Durant.
The ground of the first motion was because the transcript
was incomplete, "as appeared by the certificate of the clerk of
the lower court, as given in the printed transcript, and be:
cause it further appeared by the said certificate, that the missing parts of tle record could not be found, so that it was
useless to issue a certiorari," and on the whole impossible for
this court to hear and decide the case.
'he ground of the second motion was, that the Circuit
Court of the United States in Louisiana had rendered no
decree from which an appeal could be taken; so that this
court was without jtuisdiction.
This Provisional Court of Louisiana, as mentioned in the.
preceding case, had been established by proclamation of the
President, in October, 1862, when the war of the rebellion
had subverted and swept away the courts of the Union, and,
.by the terms of its constitution, was to last no longer than
till the civil authority was restored.

