Dec. 1868.]

D3LITZ v. BROWN.

698,

Opinion of th6,court.

The CBIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The regular course, in cases of this description, is to affirm
the judgments. The appeal is reguarly here, and canuo.t,
be dismissed ,for want of jurisdiction. The motion, there-fore, 'must be DENIED.
Counsel for the appellee has referred us to an 'order dismissing a writ of error at the last term, under circitmstances,
like those of the case before us. This order must have beeft
enterhd through inadvertence, and cannot ba drawn'into A
precedent.

BLITZ. V. BROWN.

A

writ of error dismissed where the transcript contained only a blank form
of a certificate.of.puthentication, without the seal-of the court below or.
the signature of its clerk. Leave was, however, granted to'the plaintiff
in error to withdraw the record, but not for the purpose of having it
perfected and returned here andplaced on the docket, as if it had been .
regularly filed.

IN this case-a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia-no authenticated transcript of the rec.
ord had been filed. That which purported to be a transcript
contained only a blank form of a certificate of authentica
tion, without the seal of the court below or the signature of
its clerk.
Two motions were now accordingly made; the first by
M1r. Carlisle,for the defendant in error, to dismiss, the second,
by Mr.Rradley, in behalf of the plaintiff in error, for leave to
withdraw the paper from the f.les, in order that the blank
certificate might be duly signed and sealed, and that when
thus perfected, the record might be returned. and have its
place on the docket, as if regularly filed, according to law
and the practice of the court.
The C(jHIEF JUSTIOE delivered the opinion of the court.
The filing of such a paper, as has been filed in this case,
is not tLe filing of the transcript at the next term after the

AUSTIN

v. THE

ALDERMEN.

[Sup. ("t

Syllabus.

issuing of the writ of error, without which we can have no
jurisdiction of the case. The motion to dismiss must be
allowed.
So much of the motion made in behalf of the plaintiff in
error as asks' leave to withdi aw the record is granted; but
the residue of the motion must-be denied. The case can be
brought here only by a new writ of error.

WASHINGION

COUNTY V.

DURANT.*

Cases cannot be brought within the appellate jurisdiction of this court by
agreement of parties, and without an appeal allowed or writ, of error
served.

THE'record showed that this cause had been brought here
from the Circuit Court for Iowa, as on a writ of error, by
agreement bf parties, and without the issuing or service of such a
writ. Coming before this court on a printed argument for the
defendant in error, and the fact above-mentiofied being observed by the court, the appeal was DISMISSED; the CHIEF
JUSTICE stating it to be the opinion of the court, that an
appeal allowed or a writ of error served, was essential to the
exercise of its appellate jurisdiction.

AUSTIN

v. THE

ALDERMEN.

If a State statute, passed in professed exercise of an authority given by Congress to the States to pass such a statute, does not deprive, contrary to
the act of Congress, the party to the suit, of any right, nor work, as to
him, any effect which the act of Congress forbids, this court cannot, on
the case being brought here by such party, on the ground that the State

statute violated the act of Congress, declare the State statute void.
* Decided at December Term, 1865.

