THE SIREN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of New
York is REVERSED, and the cause remitted to that court with
instructions to enter
JUDGMENT FOR THE PLAINTIFF IN ERROR.

THE

SIREN.

1. A claim for damages exists against a-vessel of the United States guilty of
a maritime tort, as much as if the offending vessel belonged to a private
citizen. And although, for reasons of public policy, the claim cannot be,enforced by direct proceedings against the vessel, yet it will
be enforced, by the courts, whenever the property itself, upor which
the claim exists, becomes, through the affirmative action of the United
States, subject to their jurisdiction and control. The government, in
such a case, stands, with reference to the rights of the defendants or
claimants, as do private suitors, except that it is exempt from costs, and
from affirmative relief against it, beyond the demand or property in
controversy.
2. By the admiralty law, all maritime claims ppon the vessel extend equally
to the proceeds arising from its sale, and are to be satisfied out of them.
These principles were thus applied:
A prize ship, in charge of a prize master and crew, on her way from the
place of capture to the port of adjudication, committed a maritime tort
by running into and sinking another vessel. Upon the libel of the government, the ship was condemned as lawful prize, And sold, and the
proceeds paid into the registry. The owners of the sunken vessel, and
the owners of her cargo, thereupon intervened by petition, asserting a
-Wir upon the proceeds for the damages sustained by the collision:
Bold, that they were ertitled to have their damages assessed and paid
out of the proceeds before distribution to the captors.
3. The District Court of the United, States, sitting as a prize court, may
hear and determine all questions respecting claims arising after the capture of the vessel.
APPEAL

from the District Court for Massachusetts.

The steamer Siren was captured in the harbor of Charleston in attempting to violate the blockade of that port, in
February, 1865, by the steamer Gladiolus, belonging to the
navy of the United States. She was placed in charge of a
prize master and crew, and ordered to the port of Boston

Dec. 1868.]

I THrE SIREN.
Opinion'of the court.

for adjudication. On hei way she was obliged to put into
the port of Nfew York for 6oil, and.,in proceeaing. h~ice
through the narrow passage' which leads to Tong Island
Sound, known as Hurlgate, she ran into and sank the'slbop
Harper, loaded with iron, and -bound from Ne'w York to
Providenc'e, Rhode Island. The collision was regarded by
this court, on the evidence, as thefault of the $ireft.
On the arrival of the steamer'At Boston, ,a libel in 'prize
was filed gainst her, ai no. claim havin g ,been resegted,.
she was, in April folloving, condeioned as lawful prize, and
sold. The procee.ds of tle sale were deposited W.ith the
assistant treasurer of the -United 'States, incompliance with
the act of Congress, where ih4y noT, remain,'stibject to tho
order of the court.
In these proceedings the 'o7ners of the, sloop Harper,. and
the owners 'of her 'cargo, intervened by petition,,asserting '
claim .Pon' the vessel and her proceeds, for the damages sus':
tained by*the 'collision, and praying that their claim might
be allowed and paid out of the proceeds.
The District'ourt held' that tbe interventioh could'not be"
,allowed'and 'dismissed the petitions; and heice 'the present
.appeals.
Mr. Aslton, Assktant Attorney-General .of t e United'States,
argued the case fully, upon principles and. autlhority,'nain-"'
taining the dorrectness of- the ,decree, below upon several
specific grounds, resolvable intp these two general ores.
1st. That to allow the-intervention -wouldbe,'in subst,-,nce,
to allow the -citizen to implead'the government,'which,' he.
asserted, was universally repugnant to settlqd prinbiples; and,
2d. That the question as to a Claim upon a prize shipr,
created after capture, was not Within' the jurisdictioli of .a'
prize court,, which, he c6ntended, candeal only With the,
question 9f prize or no prite.
Mr. Causten Browne, contra.
Mr. Jhstice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
It is a familia - doctrine of the common law, that the

154

THE SIREN.

[Sup). Ct.

Opinion of the court.

sovereign cannot be sued in his own courts without his con8ent. The doctrine rests upon reasons of public policy; the
inconvenience and danger which would follow from any different rule. It is obvious that the public servfce would be
hindered, and the public safety endangered, if the supreme
authority could be subjected to suit at the instance of every
citizen, and consequently controlled in, the use and disposition.of the means required for the proper administration of
the government. The exemption from direct suit is, therefore, without exceptiom This doctrine of the common law
is equally applicable to the supreme authority of the nation,
the United States. They cannot be subjected to legal proceedings at law or in equity without their consent; and
whoever institutes such proceedings must bring his case
within the authority of some act of Congress. Such is the
language of this court in United States v. Clarke.*
The same exemption from judicial process extends to the
property of the United States, and for the same reasons.
As justly observed by the learned judge who tried this case,
there i5 no distinction between suits against the government
directly, and suits against its property.
But although direct suits cannot be maintained against
the United States, or Against their property, yet, when the
United States institute a suit, they waive their exemption
so far as to allow a presentation by the defendant of setoffs, legal and equitable, to the extent of the demand made
or property claimed, and when they proceed in rem, they
open to consideration all claims and equities in regard to
the property libelled. They then stand in such proceedings,
with reference to the rights of defendants or claimants,
precisely as privaite suitors, except that they are exempt
from costs and from affirmative relief against them, beyond
the demand or propeity in controversy. In United States v.
.Ringgold,t a claim of the defendant was allowed as a set-off
to the demand of the government. "Nqo direct suit," said
the court, "can be maintained against the United States.
* 8 Peters, 444.

t 8 Ib. 150.

Do-.1868:]

THE SIRE11.
Opinion of the court.

But when an action is brought by the United States to recover moneys in the bands of a party who has a legal claim
against them, it would be a very rigid principle to denyto
him the right of setting up such claim in a court of justice,
and turn him round to an application to Congress." So in
United States v. Xacdaniel,* to which reference is made in
the case cited, the defendant was allowed to set off against
the demand of the government a claim for services as agent
for the payment of the navy pensiod fund, to which the court
held'he was equitably entitled. The question, said the court,
was, whether the defendant shoula surrender the money
which happened to he in his' hands; and then -petitionCon.
gress on the subject; andit was held that the government
had no right, legal or e4uitable, to the money.
For ,the damages occasioned .bycollision of veisels at sea.
a.claim is created against the vessel in fault, ii favor of the
injured party. This claim may be enforced in the adutiralty
by a proceeding in rem, except where the-vessel is'the prop-.
erty of the United States. In such. case the claim exists
equally as if the vessel belonged to a private citizen, bpt for
reasons of public policy, already stated; cannot be enforced
bi direct p'roceedifigs against the vessel. It stands, in'that
respect, like a claim against the government, incapable of
enforcement without its consent, an' unavailable for any
purpose.
In England, when the damage 'is inflicte.d by a vessel belongiuig to the crown, it was formqrly held that tli remedy
must be sought against the officer in.
commandcof the.offendiig ship. But the p'resent practice is to file a libel'in re.m,
upon which the 6ourt directs the registraf to write to the
lords of the admiralty requesting an appearance.on behalf
of the crown-which is generally given-when the subsequent proceedings to decree are conducted as in other
cases.t In the 'case of The Athol1 the court r efused.to issue
a monition'to the lords of the admiralty to appear in a suit
for damage by collision, occasioned to a vessel by a ship of
7 Peters, 16.
1 .W. Robinson, 382.

t Coote's l~w Admiralty Practice, 31.

ThE. SIREN.

[Sup. ot.

Opinion of the court

the crown; but the lords having subsequently directed an
appearance to be entered, the court proceeded with the case,
and awarded damages. As no warrant issues in these cases
for the arrest of the vessels of the crown, and no bail is
given on the appearance, it is insisted that they are brought
simply to ascertain the extent of the damages, and that the
decrees are little more than awards, so far as the government is loncerned. This nay be the only result of the suits,
but they are instituted and conducted on the hypothesis that
claims against the offending vessels are created by the colIision.* The vessels are not arrested and taken into custody
by the marshal, for the reasons of public policy already
stated, and for the further reason that it is to be presumed
that the government will at'once satisfy a decree rendered
by its own tribunals- in a case in which it has voluntarily
appeared.
It is true, that in case of damage committed by a public
vessel a legal responsibility attaches to the actual wrongdoer,
the commanding ofcer of the offending ship, and the injured party may seek redress against him; but this is not
inconsistent with the existence of a claim against the vessel
itself. In the case of Thi Athol, already referred to, where
the liability of'the actual wrongdoer is asserted, damages
against the vessel were pronounced after 'a appearance
on behalf of the crowx had been given by the admniralty
proctor.t
The inability to enforce the claim against the vessel is not
inconsistent with its existence.
Seamen's wages constitute preferred claims, under the
maritime law, upon all vessels; yet they cannot be enforced
against a vessel of the nation, or a vessel employed in its
service. In a case before the Admiralty Court of Pennsylvania, in 1781, it was adjudged, on a plea to the jurisdiction,
that mariners enlisting on board a ship of war belonging to
a sovereign independent State could not libel the ship fbr
their wages.
* The Clara, I Swabey, 3; and the Swallow, lb. 30.
t See, also, United States v. Brig Malek Adhel, 2 Howard, 233.

Dec. 1868.]

THn SI E .
Opinion of the court.

In a case in the English Admiralty Court, a libel having
been filed to enforce a claim for seamen's wages against a
packet ship employed in the seriice of the General Post Office,
Sir-William Scott declined to take jurisdiction until notice
was given to the Post Office Department, and he was 'informed that no'objection was taken to the proceeding.* The
fact that the court took jurisdiction when the' exemption,
upon which the government could insist, 'vas waived, shows
that a claim against the vessel existed, as only upon its existence could the libel in any event be sustaihed.
Even where claims are made liens upon property by statute, they cannot be enforced.by difect suit, if the property
subsequently vest in the 'government. Thus in Massachusetts,the statutes ptovide, tlat any pdrson to whom money
.is
due for labor and materials furnished in the construction
of a vessel in that commonwealth, shall have a lien upon
her, which shall be preferred to all other liens-except mariners' wages, and shall coAtinue until the debt is paid, unlesi
.lost-by a failure to comply with certain specified conditions;
yet ip a recent case, where a vessel subject to a lien of'this
character was transferred p6, the United States, it was held
that the lien could not be enforced in the courts of that
State. The decision was place4 upon the general exemption
of"thb government and its property from legal process.t
So also expres§ contract liens upon the property of the
United.States ard incapable of enforcement. A mortgage
*uponproperty, the title to which had subsequently passed to
the United States, would be in the same position as a claim
against a vessel, of the government, incapable of enforcement by legal proceedings. The United States, possessing
the fee, wobld be an indispensable party to any suit to foreclose the equity of redemptibn, or to obtain aisale of the
premises.,- In Luwic v. The Atlorej-General, a case cited
by Lord Hardwicke in deciding Reeve v. Attorney-Generalj
a bill was filed t6 foreclose a mortgage after the mortgagor
9 he Lord Hobart, 2 Dodson, 103.
-B rliggs and another v. Light Boats, 11 Alien, 157.

:2 Atky%, 223.

THE SIREN.

,

[sup. 0t.

Opinion of the court.

had been attainted for high treason, and the court refused a
foreclosure against the crown, but directed that the mortgagee should hold and enjoy the mortgaged premises until
the crown thought proper to redeem the estate.
In Hodge v. Attorney-General,* the deeds of certain leasehold estates had been deposited by one Bailey with the plaintiffs, who were bankers, to secure a balance of a running
account between him and them. Bailey was afterwards
convicted of felony, and the leasehold estates vested in the
crown. At the time of his conviction he was indebted to
the plaintiffs, who filed a bill against the attorney-general,
claiming t6 be equitable mortgagees of the leasehold estates,
to subject the property to sale, and the application of the
proceeds to the payment of the amount due them. But the.
court said that the only decree which could be made in the
case was t6 declare the plaintiffs to be equitable mortgagees
of the property, to direct an account to,be taken, and that
the plaintiiffs hold possession of the property until their lien
was satisfied. "I do not think," said Baron Alderson, in
giving the decision, "that I have any jurisdiction in this
case to order a sale. Here the legal estate is vested in the
crown; and I do not know any process by which this court
can compel the crown to convey that legal estate."
In this country, where, as a general rule, a mortgage is
treated only as a lien or incumbrance, and the mortgagor
retains possession of the premise., the relief granted in the
two cases cited wduld be of no avail.
The authorities to which we have referred are sufficient
to show that the existence of a claim, and even of a lien
tipon pr6perty, is not always dependent upon the ability of
the holder to enf6rce it by legal proceedings. A claim or
lien existing and continuing will be enforced by the courts
whenever the property up'on which it lies becomes subject
to their jurisdiction and control. Then the rights and interests of all parties will be respected- and maintained. Thus,
if the government, having the title to land subject to the
*3

Younge & Collyer, 342.

Dec. 1868.]

TnE SIRE.
Opinion of the court.

mortgage of the previous owner, should transfer the property, the jurisdiction of the court to enforce the lien would
at once attach, as it existed before the acquisition of the
property by' the government.
So if property befonging to the government, upon which
claims exist, is sold upon judicial decree, and the proceeds
are paid into the registry, the court would have jurisdiction
to direct the claims to be satisfied out of them. Such decree of sale could only be -nide upon alplication of the
government, and by its appearance in court,- as we nave
already said, it waives its'exemption and submits to"the application of the same prinuiples by which justice is adninistered between private suitors.
lTow, it is a settled principle of admiralty law, that all
maritime claims upon the vessel extend equally to the proceeds arising from its sale, and are to be satisfied out. of
them. Assuming, therefore, that the Siren was in faul.t,
and that by the tort she committed a claim was c'reated
against her, we do not perceive any just ground for. refusing
its satisfaction out of the proceeds of her sale. The government i the actor in the suit for her condemnation. It asks
for her sale, and the proceeds.coming into the registry of the
court, come affected with all tho claims which existed upon,
the vessel created subsequent. to her capture. There is no
authority, that we are aware of 'which would exempt them
under these ciicumstances, because of the exemption of the
government from a direct proceeding in reni against the
vessel vhilst in its custody.
This doctrine wap applied by this court in the case of the
St..J'ago de Cdba,* where a libel was filed by the United
States to forfeit the vessel for violation of the laws prohibiting the slave trade. Claims of seamen for wages, and of
material-men for supplies, when the parties were ignorant
of the illegal voyage of the vessel, were allowed and paid
out of the proceeds. These claims arose subsequent to the
illegal acts which created tle forfeiture, yet they were not
* 9 Wheaton, 409.

THE SiR -.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

superseded by the claim of the government:' "In case of
wreck and salvage," said the court, "it is unquestionable
that the.forfeiture would be superseded; and we see no
ground on which to preclude any other maritime claim
fairly and honestly acquired." This language, though used
with reference to claims arising out of contract, may be applied to claims arising out of torts committed after the
capture of the offending yessel.
In United States v. Wilder* it was held that goods of the
United, States were subject to contribution 'equally with
goods of private shippers, to meet the expenses incurred in
saving them, which ivere averaged, and that the owners of
the vessel could retain the goods, until their share of the contibution to the average was paid or secured. The United
States claimed the right to take the goods without paying
or securing this shar'e; and this being denied, the actioq was
brought to recover their value. In delivering the opilion,
Mr. Justice Story stated that he was. unable- to distiuguish
the case from one of salvage, and that it had never been
doubted that in cases of salvage of private ships and cargoes, the freight on board belonging to the government was
equally subject to the admiralty process in rei for its proportion due for salvage with that of mere private shippers;'
but that it might be? for aught he knew, different in cases
of the salvage of public, ships. "Thel same reasoning, however," continued the learned justice, "which has been applied by ihe government against the lien for general average, applies with equal force against the lien for salvageof
government p'roperty under all circumstances. Besides,
it is by no neans true, that liens existing on particular
things are displaced by the government be~oming' or succeeding to the proprietary interest. The lien of seamen's
wages and of bottomry bonds exists in all cases as much
against the government, becoming proprietors by way of
purchase, or forfeiture, or otherwise, as it does againsttbe
particular things in the possession of a private person."
* 3 Sumner, 308.

Dec. 1868.]

TH, SmRm
Opinion of the court.

In the case of The Schooner Davis and Cargo, recently decided in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York, cotton belonging to "the
United States was held liable to contribution to meet the
all6wance made for salvage services in saving vessel and
cargo. "The mere fact," said the court, "of the ownership
of the cotton by the government, in the act of being carried
to its port of- destination for -the purposes of a market as
merchandise, we think did not exempt it from the lien in
case of salvage service. We shall not enter into an argument in support of the position, as the subject, or rather a
kindred one-the liability of property of the government
for general -average-and, the present question incidentally
have been already most el'aborately examined by Mr. Justice
Story.* We are inclined, also, to the opinion, that it is the
doctrine of the admiralty in England,t and, of the most
approved modern elementary writers on thesubject ia this
country."I
There is no just f6undation for the objection that claims
for maritime torts cannot 'be dealt with and adjusted by a
prize court. "It is a principle well settled, and constantly
conceded and applied," said Chancellor Kent," that prize.
courts havb exclusive jurisdiction and an enlarged discretion as to the allowance of freight, damages, expenses, and
costs in all cases of captures, and as to all torts,.and personal
injuries, and ill-treatments, and abuse of power connected
with captures jure belli; and the courts will frequently award
large and liberal damages in those cases."§ The jurisdiction is not, therefore, limited to the determination of the
simple question of prize or no prize. But whatever may
be the limitation upon the jurisdiction of a prize court in
England, there is no such limitation upon the District C6urt
sitting as a prize court in this country. Here, the District
Court, as was said in United States v. Weed, "holds both its.
3 Sumner, 30...
t 8 Haggard, 246.
I Parsons's Maritime'Law, 324; 2 1b. 625; Marvin on Wrecks and Salvage, , 122; see, also, 7 Wheaton, 283.
1 Kent, 354.
VOL. VII.

11

115 Wallace, 69.

THE 'SIREN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

prize jurisdiction and its jurisdiction as an instance court of
admiralty from the Constitution and the acts of Congress,
and is but one court with these different branches of ad
miralty jiurisdiction, as well as cognizance of other and disc
tinct subjects." It may, therefore, hear and determine all
questions respecting claims arising after the capture of the
vessel. Outstanding claims upon the vessel, existing previ6us to the capture, cannot be considered. This exclusion
rests not on the ground of any supposed inability of the
court to pass upon these claims correctly, but. because they
are superseded by the capture.*
As to the suggestion that a maritime tort, committed by
a ship in possession of a prize master aid crew, ought not
to create a claim on the vessel against a neutral owner in
case the vessel is restored, it is sufficient to say, although
the vessel having been condemned tle question is not of
importance in this case, that the cJaim in that event, if held
to exist, would not be the subject of consideration by the
prize court. Here, however, the title was divested from the
"previousowner by the capture, that being lawful, and vested
in theUnited States (in trust as to one-half for the captors),
although the legality of the capture was not established until
the sentence of condemnation.
It does not appear thAt the court below considered the
evidence as to the character and extent of the alleged tort.
It appears to have placed its decision entirely upon the legal
proposition, that the captured vessel was exempt from legal
process at the suit of the intervenors, and that consequently
the proceeds of the vessel could not be subjected to the
satisfaction of their claims. We have, however, looked into
the evidence, and are satisfied that the collision was the fault
of the Siren. It took place in the daytime. The sloop was
,,seen from the steamer in time to avoid her. The steamer
was out of the regular track for steamers passing through
Hurlgate. The passage is noted for its difficulties and dan* The Battle, 6 Wallace, 498; The Hampton, 5 1b. 372; and The France,
8 Cranch, 418.

Dec. 1868.]

TEE SIREN.
Opinion of Nelson, J., dissenting.

gers, and, under the laws of New York, pilots are specially
commissioned to take vessels through it. The prize master
engaged a pilot for the Sound to take the steamer from New
York to Boston, but refused to engage a Hur]gate pilot, his
reason being to avoid expense. With such a pilot she would
have been taken in the regular track of steamers northward
of Blackwell's Island, and so close to Flood Rock as to avoid
the sloop, as might easily have been done. We do not think
it important to cite from the evidence in vindication of our
conclusion, especially as it was not seriously contested on the
argument that the Siren was responsible for the collision.
The decree must be REVERSED, and the cause remanded
to the' court below, with directions to assess the damages
and pay them out of the proceeds of the vessel before distribution to the captors.
ORDERED ACcORDINGLY.

Ir. Justice -ELSON, dissenting.
I am unable to concur in the opinion just delivered. The
steamer Siren, having been captured by the United States
steamship Gladiolus, a government vessel of war, jure beli,
became the property of the United States, subject only to
the right of the claimant to have the question of the legality
of the capture detefriained by thb prize court to- which it was
sent for condemnation. Captures made by govetnment vessels belong to the government, and no title exists in the captors, except to their distributive shares of the proceeds after
condemnation.*
I agree that the Siren, while on her way, after capture,
under the charge of the prize master, was in fault in the collision with the sloop Harper, on her passage from the East
River into the Sound, and that, if she had belonged to a private owner, she would have been liable, in the admiralty,
for all the damages consequent upon this fault. Nor do I
make any question as to a lien for the damages against the
* Dos Hermanos, 10 Wheaton, 306; The Aigburth, Blatchford's Prize
Cases, 635; The Adventure, 8 Cranch, 226.

THE SlRErN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Nelson, J., dissenting.

vessel in auch a case, and which may be enforced by a proceeding in rem; or may be by a petitioin to the court against
the procee'ds, in the registry, if, for any cause, the offending
vessel has been sold, and no prior lien exists against these
proceeds. 'But if the owner of the offending vessel is not
'liable at all for the collision, it follows, as A necessary legal
consequence, that there can be no lien, otherwise the non
liability wotild amount to nothing. Ii would be idle to say
that the owner was not liable for the wrong, and at the same
time subject his vessel for the damages occasioned. In this
case, therefore, before a lien can be established or enforced
against the Siren by a proceeding in rem, f4r the fault in
question, or, which is the same thing, before it can be appliedt to the proceeds of the vessel in the registry, it must
first be shown that the United States, the owner, is legally
liable for the collision. In sayig legally liable, I do not
mean thereby legally liable to a suit; but legally liable upon
common law principles in case a suit might have been maintained against the government; in other words, legally liable
for the wrongful acts of her officers or public agents. That,
in my judgment, is the turning-point in this case, and the
principle is as applicable to the proceeds of the Siren in the
registry as to the vessel itself. If t6e government is not responsible, upon theprinciples of the common law, for wrongs
committed by her officers or, agents, then, whether the proceedings in the admiralty are against the vessel, or its proceeds, the court is bound to dismiss them.
Now, no principle at common law is better settled than,
that the government is not liable for. the wrongful acts of
he: public agents. Judge Story, in his work on Agency,
states it as follows: "It is plain," he observes, "that the
government itself is -not responsible for the misfeasances, or
wrongs, or negligences, or omissions of duty of the subordinate officers or agents employed in the public service; for
it does not undertake to guarantee to any persons the fidelity
of any of the officers or agents whom it employs, since that
Wvould involve it in all its operations in endless embarrassments, and difficulties, and losses, which would be subver-

'Dee.,1868.'.

TE SIVEN.
Opinion of Telson, J., dissenting.

sive of the public interests." When we take into view the
multitude of public officers and agents, which the, government is obliged to empl6y in: conducting its affairs; the
soundness, propriety, and even necessity of this principle become at onqe apparent. In our judgment the present case.
falls directly within it. In all these cases.of wrongs committed by public officers or agents, the legal responsibility
attaches to the actual wrongdoer.
It is supposed that .the liability of government property
for salvage or general average contributqn, for services or
sacrifices, in cases of impending danger to the property, afford some autliority for the judgment in the present case.
We are unable to perceive any analogy to the principle we
have been discussing. There a portion of the property is
taken, or appropriated, as a compensation for saving it from
a peril that threatened the loss of the whole. The cases
involve no principle concerning the liability of tlie government for the tortious acts of its public officers.
Great stress is laid also upon the circumstance that the
United States is the libellant, and has brought the offending
vessel or its proceeds into court, and that the proceeding
against the'fund it the registry is not a suit against the government. But the answer to this is not that the proceeding
may not bb taken against'tbe fund in the registry, although
there is certaily some difficulty in distinguishing between
that and a proceeding against the vessel itself, but that the
fund which belongs to the government is not liable at all
for the wrongful acts of its officers, which wrongful acts lie
at the foundation of the judgment rendered in the case. It
is for this principle I contend, and for which I am compelled
to dissent from the judgment.

