Dec. 1868.]

EWING V.

IHOWARD.

Statement of the case.

ing at the time, only required that the person applying for
its benefits should be "a free white person," and not an
alien enemy.*
A similar construction was given to the act by the Court
of Appeals of New York, in Burton v. Burton,t and is the
one which gives the widest extension to its provisions.
It follows, from these views, that the widow and the two
sisters were citizens of the United States upon the decease
of the intestate husband. The widow and Margaret Kahoe
became such on the naturalization of their respective husbands, and Ellen Owen became such on her marriage. The
sisters are therefore entitled to share with the widow in the
estate of the deceased, and the decree of the Supreme Court
of the District must be
AFFIRMED.

EWING V. HOWARD.
I. Usury being a defence that must be strictly proved, a court will not presume that a note dated on one day for a sum payable with interest from
a day previous was for money first lent on the day of the aate only.
2. -Wherea defendant on suit upon such a note wishes to rely at any time
on usury as a defence, he should raise the question in some form in the
court below. If this is not done the defence cannot be made here.
ERROR

to the Circuit Court for the Middle District -of

Tennessee.
A statute of Ten aessee, passed in 1860,1 and which by its
terms was to take effect from the 1st of September of that
year, allowed 10 per cent. interest (instead of 6 per cent., a
former rate) to be taken for money lent, provided that such
agreement were expressed "oi the face of the contract,"
whether evidenced by bond, bill, note, or othier written instrument. The same statute, however, provided, thav if
any greater amount of interest than 10 per cent. was paid,
* Act of April 14th, 1802, 2 Stat. at Large, 153.

$ Sessions Act, chap. 41,

1, p. 81.

"t 38 New York, 173.

EWING v. HOWARD.

[Sul). Ct.

Argument against the validity.

or agreed to be paid, the whole amount of the interest
should be forfeited by the payee. And it made the lending
of money at such greater rate a misdemeanor, subject to
indictment, and punishable accordingly.
The act was repealed on the 31st of January, 1861. With
the exception, therefore, of the five months from the 1st of
September, 1860, to 31st January, 1861, it had always been
in Tennessee a misdemeanor to lend money at a greater
rate of interest than 6 per cent. per annum.
In this state of the law there, Howard sued Ewing, in
1865, in the court below, upon two notes: one (the only one
which was the subject Gf controversy here) having been
dated November 15th, 1860, and by which he, Ewing, agreed
to pay him, Howard, or order, $3333 3, " with interest at
the rate of 10 per cent. per annum,from and after the 1st day
of September last past till paid." By a memorandum in writing, dated on the same day as the note, payment was guaranteed by the father of Ewing; the guaranty speaking of the
note as being for money " heretofore" lent by Howard to
Ewing's son.
The declaration was in the ordinary form of a declaration
in assumpsit. Plea the general issue, and nothing else. On
the trial the notes were put in evidence without objection,
and there being no other evidence in the case, verdict was
given for the plaintifE. There was no request for instructions on either side.
-From an entry in the record, that "the motions for a new
trial and in arrest of judgment were by this court ovemrled,"
it was to be inferred that motions, both for a new trial and
in arrest of judgment, had been made below; but neither
were set forth in the record as sent here, and, accordingly,
if usury or any other defence had been made in fact, in the
court below, to the notes, no evidence of it appeared here.
Judgment having been given for the plaintiff, the defendant now brought the case here.

Messrs. Waterson and Crawqfor'd,for the plaintiff in error:
The note is void, being an illegal contract for usury, ap-

Dec. 1868.]

EWING V. HOWARD.
Argument for the validity.

parent upon its face. It expresses that it is made for value
received on the day of its date, and yet calls for interept
from a period two months and a half before that day, viz.,
from the day when the 10 per cent. law took effect; making
the rate of interest in effect more than thirteen per cent. per
annum. ' Every contract which is prohibited and made unlawful by statute, is a void contract, though the statute does
not mention that it shall be so, but only inflicts a penalty on
the offender. The penalty implies a prohibition."*
Moreover, the illegality being apparent on the face of the
instrument which isthe subject of the suit, it is radical and pervading, attaching to the case wherever it may be. The
leading Tennessee case of Isley v. Brunsont is decisive.
Mr. Caruthers, contra:
The question is, whether the note of November 15th, 1860,
is illegal on its face? If, not, it is not obnoxious to the objection made.
It is a well-settled rule, that the courts will avoid, if practicable by any fair intendment, that construction of a transaction which will subject a party to a contract to a penalty.
If this note was for money lent on.or before the 1st of September, 1860, it is legal. Now, the written guaranty of
Ewing, the fatber, shows that it was for a previous loan.
But independently of that the presumption would be that
the loan was made at or before the time from which the interest was to bdgin to run.
But even if this were not so, yet on this writ of error the
court below cannot be put in the wrong, by the making of
an objection here that was nbt made there. If the defendants desired to make such a defence as that now set up, it
should have been done then, and the judgment of the court
taken upon it. That would have made a question for this
court of errors to sustain or correct. This is a court to correct erroneous decisions made by the court below, on points
of defence presented, and not for the origination of new.
* 1 Smith's Leading Cases, page 622, 6th ed.

t" 6 H~umphreys, 277.

EWING V. HOWARD.

[Sul). Ct.

Opinion of the court.

defences, which the inferior court was not called upon to
adjudicate.
Reply: The case of Isler v. Brunson, already cited, answers
the objection that the objection is first made here, and seems
to be decisive of the case presented by this record:
"If a party plaintiff bring into a court, either of law or
cquity, an illegal contract that it may be enforced, and this illeW.ality is shown and set forth by himself, and not disclosed by
plea or allegation from the defendant, it is the duty of either
court, on ground of public policy, to repel the plaintiff and refuse
its action on his behalf. Thus, if in a declaration on a security
for money profert be made of the security, and upon its face it
appears to have stipulated for more than legal interest, no judgment can be rendered fbr the plaintiff notwithstanding the act
of 1835 only avoids the usurious excess."
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Judgment in this case was for the plaintiff in the court
below, and the defendants in that court sued out a writ of
error and removed the cause into this court. The action
was assumpsit, and the cause of action was the two promissory notes set forth in the bill of exceptions. Plea was the
general issue, and the bill of exceptions shows that the plaintiff, to maintain the issue on his part, introduced in evidence
the two promissory notes on which the suit was founded.
They were introduced without objection, and the bill of exceptions states to the effect that there was no other evidence
introduced by either party. Defendants moved for a new
trial, and also in arrest of judgment, but the court overruled
both motions, and the defendants excepted to the rulings of
the court.
Settled rule of the court is that a motion for a new trial is
addressed to the discretion of the court, and that the ruling
of the court in granting or denying such a motion is not the
proper subject 6f exceptions.*
Motions in arrest of judgment present questions of law
Henderson v. Moore, 5 Cran. 11; Blunt v. Smith, 7 Wheaton, 248.

Dec. 1868.]

wING

v.

f:OWARD.

Opinion of the court.

when they are so framed as to call in question the sufficiency
of an indictment or of a declaration in a civil suit; but the
trafiscript does not contain the motion, and the declaration
appears to be in due form and sufficient to sustain the judgment.
Defects of form in the writ or declaration, not pointed out
by demurrer, are not in general regarded in this court as
good cause for reversing a judgment brought here by writ
of error, as the Federal courts possess the power to permit
such imperfections to be amended in their discretion and
upon such terms and conditions as the rules of the court
prescribe.*
Neither of the objections taken to the action of the Circuit Court and embodied in the bill of exceptions'are urged
in this court, and being in themselves entirely untenable,
they must be considered as having been abandoned. Nothing else remains to be considered in the case except wh.at
arises from the form and tenor of the notes, which are set
forth at large in the bill of exceptions, but without any comineut or any objection being made to the right of the plaintiff to recover.
Examined throughout, the transcript shows no objection
to the right of the plaintiff to recover on the second note in
the case, and as it is not suggested by the defendantsthat
there is any defence to that note, further comment in that
behalf is*unnecessary. Attention of this court is invited
only to the other note, and the argument is that it is illegal
and void, because it secures by its very terms usurious iu
terest. Legal interest in that State is six per cent. per annuni, unless otherwise agreed between the parties, but contracts between the borrower and the lender of money may
be made for a higher rate not exceeding ten per cent. per anhum, as in this case, provided the agreement to that effect is
ekpressed "in the face of the contract," whether evidenced
by bond, bill, note; or other written instrument.t
I Stat. at Large, 91; Stockton v. Bishop, 4 Howard, 155'; Raih'oad v.
Lindsay, 4 Wallace, 650.
t Sess. Act, chap. 41, 1, p. 31.

504

EWING V. HowARD.

[Sup. CL

Opinion of the court.

Debts created for the loan of money under an agreement
to pay ten per cent., expressed as required in the statute,
may be subsequently renewed for the same rate of intere. t,
but the provision is that if any greater amount of interest
than ten per cent. per annum is paid or agreed to be paid
for the use of money, "the whole amount of interest so paid,
or agreed to be paid, shall be forfeited by the payee." Provision is also made by the sixth section of the act, that any
person or persons who shall violate the provisions of that
law shall be subject to indictment, as in other cases of misdemeanor, and be punished as therein provided.*
Principal reason now urged for the reversal of the judgment is, that the first note described in the bill of exceptions
is illegal, because the makers of the same promised to pay
interest on the principal at the rate of ten per cent. per annum, commencing the computation two months and a half
before the date of the note. Date of the note is November
15, 1860, and the agreement, as expressed in the note, is to
pay interest at the rate of ten per cent. per annum from and
after the first day of September last until paid.
Argument for the defeidants is that the contract is usurious, and that, inasmuch as the loaning of money at a greater

rate of interest is prohibited by law, and the violation of
the provision is declared to be a misdemeanor, the contract
expressed in the note is illegal, and that the judgment should
have been for the defendants. L
Suppose it be admitted that the presumption is as contended by the.defendant, that the note was given for the
loan of money, and that the contract is illegal, still the presumption is not a conclusive one, as the iote may have been
given for the purchase of goods, chattels, or lands, and the
bargain may have been made and the property actually
transferred on the exact day specified in the note, as the
time from which'interest is to be computed.
Promissory notes, if given under those circumstances,
though bearing interest anterior to their date, are neither
* Sess. Act, p.'33, Code, 868.

Dec. 1868.]

EWING V. HOWARD.

- 505

Opinion of the-court.

usurious nor illegal, unless the day described in the contract
from which to compute the interest is anterior to the actual
date of the transaction and- the transfer of the subjectmatter of the purchase and sale, and it is quite clear that
promissory notes in such a case, as between the original
parties, are open to explanation.
Where the defendant intends to make such a defence he
should plead it in the court of original jurisdiction, or raise
the question in some form and present it for the decision of
the court. Doubtless he may raise the question by plea, by
objection to the introduction of the note in evidence, or by
a prayer for instruction tothe jury, but he cannot remain
silent in the subordinate court and then present the objection
for the first time in the court of errors, when it is too late
for the plaintiff to offer any explanations, or to show what
was the real nature and character of the transaction.
Nothing of the kind was done or suggested in this case
by the defendants, but they pleaded the general issue, giving
no notice of any such defence, and the note was introduced
at the trial without objection, and there is hothing in the
record to show, or tending to show, that the circuit judge ever
made or was requested to make any ruling upon the subject.
Parties relying upon such hn objection should raise it at
the trial before the jury, when the other party would have
an opportunity to offer any explanations in his power to show
that the contract was legal and valid.
Bills or notes promising the payment of interest from a
time anterior to their date, if the bills or notes so written are
to be considered as conclusive evidence that they were given
for money lent on, the day of their date, would properly be
regarded as usurious, but it As well known that' bills and
notes are often given subsequent to the transaction which
constitutes their consideration 'and for property sold, and'
upon other transactions as well as for money lent. "Usury
is a defence that must b strictly proved, and the court will
not presume a state of facts to sustain that defence where
the instrument is consistent With correct dealing."** Marvin v. Feeter, 8 Wendell, 633; Holden v. Pollard, 4 Pickering, 17&

Ex

PARTE MCCARDLE.

[Sup. C.

Syllabus.

Universal rule is that where an instrument will bear two
constructions equally consistent with its language, one of
which will render it operative and the other void, the former
will be preferred.*
Theory of the defendants is that the note is usurious and
illegal on its face, but the authorities are clearly the other
way, that the presumption is that the note was given upon a
state of fictq which authorized the taking of the instrument,
and that the coutract was lawful and valid.t
Tested as matter of principle, or by the decided cases, the
better opinion is that the presumption is that such a contract
'is valid and not usurious, and that the burden to prove the
contrary is upon the ptrty who makes the charge.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Ex

PARTE MOCARDLE.

1. The appellate jurisdiction of this court is conferred by the Constitution,
and not derived from acts of Congress; but is conferred "with such exceptions, and under such regulations, as Congress may make;" and,
therefore, acts of Congress affirming such jurisdiction, have always
been construed as ,excepting from it all cases not expressly described
and provided for.
2. When, therefore, Congress enacts that this court shall have appellate
jurisdiction over final decisions of the Circuit Courts, in certain cases,
the act operates as a negation or exception of such jurisdiction in other
cases; and the repeal of the act necessarily negatives jurisdiction under
it of these cases also.
3. The repeal of such an act, pending an appeal provided for by it, is not an
exercise of judicial'power by the legislature, no matter whether the repeal takes effect before or after argument of the appeal.
4. The act of 27th of March, 1868, repealing that provision of the act of 6th
of February, 1867, to amend the Judicial Act of 1789, which authorized
appeals to this count from'the decisions of the Circuit Courts, in.cases
of habeas corpus, does not except from the appellate jurisdiction of this
Archibald v. Thomas, 3 Cowen, 290.
Andrews et al. v. Hart et al., 17 Wisconsin, 807; Leavitt v. Pell, 27 -Bar
bour, 332; -Levy v. Hampton, 1 McCord, 147.

