454

CONFISCATION CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

CONFISCATION CASES.
1. An informer, in prosecutions under the act of August Gth, 1861, which
subjects to confiscation, upon libel filed, property whoc owner uscd or
consented to its use in aiding the rebellion, has no veted interest in the
subject-matter of the suits; and this, notwithstanding that the act declares that where any person files an information with the Attorney of
the United States (as the act allows any person to do), the proceedings
shall be " for the use of such informer and the United States in equal
parts."
2. Hence, the Attorney-General may properly, and against the interest and
objection of the informer, ask atdibimissal of an appeal to this court in
cases where the decree below, having been against it, the government
has appealed; and in the same way ask, upon agrcement to that cflect
with the counsel of the claimants, for a reversal of a decree, where, on
decree against them, the appeal has been by the other bide, and for a
remand of the cause to the court below, with directions to it to di-miss
the libel.

TiiE question in this case arose upon a motion of Mr.
Evarts, Attorney-General, in fifteen appeals from the Eastern District of Louisiana, in which judgments had been
given on libels for condemnation and fbrfeiture-as having
been employed in aid of the rebellion, with the consent of
the owners-against the Trent and five other vessels, from
which judgments the owners of the ve-scls appealed; and
given in fiavor of the Eleanor and eig!ht other vessels, from
which the United States appealed.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD stated the case more particularly,
prior to delivering, as hereinafter, the opinion of the court.
Property owned by any person .who knowingly uses or
employs the same, or who consents to the use or employment of the same in aiding, abetting, or promoting insurrection against the government of the United States, under
the conditions specified in the first section of the act of the
6th of August, 1861, is declared by that act "to be lawful
subject of prize and capture," and all property purchased,
acquired, sold, or otherwise transferred, with intent that the
same may be so used or employed, is also declared to be

Dec. "1838.]

CONFISCATION- CASES.

Statement of the case.

subject to~the same proceedings, and the provision is, that it
shall be the duty of the President to cause the same to'be
seized, confiscated, and condemned.*
Proceedings for the condemnation of such property may
be instituted by the Attorney-General, or by any district
attorney for the district in which the property is situated at
the time the proceedings are commenced, and the third seetion provides, that in such cases "the proceedings are wholly
for the benefit of the United States;" but the same section
also provides, that "any person may file an information with
such attorney, in which case the proceedings shall be for the
use of such informer and the United States iii equal parts."
Pursuant to those provisions libels of information were
filed in these cases by the district attorney of the United
States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for that district, in which it was
alleged that the steamer Eleanor Was seized on the 15th of
June, 1865, and that the steamer Trent was seized on the
30th of June in the same year..
Apart from the names of the vessels, and the time when
the respective seizures were made, the allegations of the
libels are similar in efery respect material to this investigation. They were.addressed to the judges of the Circuit
Court for that district, and the introductory allegati6n in
each states that the district attorney prosecutes for the United States, and in the name and behalf of the United States
and Charles Black, informant, against the respective steam,ers, their tackle, apparel, and furniture, and the prayer of
the respective libels is for process of monition, order of publication, and for a decree of condemnation to the use and
ovnership of the United States and of the informant.
Both steamers were seized, and process was served in
each case; but the steamers were-afterwards released by the
order of the court, made at the request of the claimants,
who respectively gave bonds for their appraised value. Subsequent proceedings in the .two cases were in all respects
12 Stat. at Large, 319.

CONFISCATION

CASES.

[SLIP. Ct

Opinion of the court.

the same, except that the decree in the first case was for the
claimants, and in the second for the United States, and the
losing party in each case appealed to this court. Other appeals in like cases were entered in this court at the same
term, and they have remained on the calendar to the present
time.
Early in the present term some of the cases were heard
upon.the merits; but these cases now come before the court
on certain motions made in behalf of the United States by
the Attorney-General. His motion in the first case is for
leave to dismiss the libel of information; and in the second
case, his proposition is to the effect that the decree of the
Circuit Court, which was in favor of the United States, shall
be reversed, and the cause remanded, with a view that the
same may be dismissed in the court where the suit was instituted. When the motions were made they were taken
under advisement; but the court subsequently decided that
the motions ought to be granted, unless the informer desired
to be heard in opposition to the discontinuance of the prosecutions. Since that time the informer has been heard,* and
the court has come to the conclusion that the respective
motions must be-granted.
Provision was made by the thirty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act for the appointment of an attorney of the United
States in each district, and the same section makes it his
duty to prosecute in such district all delinquents for crimes
and offences cognizable under the -authority of the United
States, and all civil actions in which the United States shall
be concerned, except before the Supreme Court, in the district in which that court shall be holden.t
In the prosecution of suits in the name and for the benefit
of the United States, the 'seventh section of the act of the
15th of May, 1820, provided that the district attorneys
should conform to such directions and instructions as they
* He was rQpresented here by Messrs. C. Cumhing and B Butler.-

t

1 Stat. at Large, 92.

A EP

Dec. 1898.]

CONFISCATION CASES.

Opinion of the court.

should receive from the agent of the treasury; but the first
section of the act of the 2d of August, 1861, devolves the
general superintendence and direction of district attorneys,
as to the manner of discharging their respective duties' upon
the Attorney-General of the United States.*
Public prosecutions, until they come before the court to
which they are returnable, are within the exclusive direction
of the district attorney, and even after they are entered in
court, they are so far under his control that he may enter a
nolle prosequi at any time before the jury is empanelled fbi
the trial of the case, except in cases where it is otherwise
provided in some act of Congress.
Civil suits, in the name and for the benefit of the United
States, are also instituted by the district attorney, and, in
the absence of any directions from the Attorney-General,
he controls the prosecution of the same in the district and
circuit courts, and may, if he sees fit, allow the plaintifs
to become nonsuit, or consent to a discontinuance.
Settled rule is that those courts will not recognize any
suit, civil or criminal, as regularly before them, if prosecuted
in the name and for the benefit of the United States, unless
the same is represented by the district attorney, or some one
designated by him to attend to such business, in his absence,
asmay appertain to the duties of his office.t
Under the rules of the common law it must be conceded
that the prosecuting 'arty may relinquish his suit at any
stage of it, and withdraw from court at his option, and
wit!iout other liability to his adversary than the payment of
taxable costs which have accrued up to the time when he
withdraws his suit.1
Precisely the same rule prevails in the admiralty courts,
and consequently the libellant has the right at any stage of
8 Id. 596; 12 Id..285.
+ 11 Stat. at Large, 61, Levy Court v. Riuggold, 5 Peters, 464; United
States v. Corrie, 23 Law Rep. 145; United States v. Stowell,.2 Curtis, 153;
United States v., McAvoy, 4 Blatchford, 418; The Peterhoff, Blatch. Prize
Cases. 469;-The Anna, lb. 337.
/ 1 Tidds Practice, 628:

CONFISCATION CASES.

[Sul. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the cause voluntarily to discontinu the same, and the only
penalty to which he can legally be subjected, in the absence
of any statutory regulation, except, perhaps, in prize cases,
is the payment of the costs of the proceedings.*
Although the name of the informer in these cases is mentioned in the libel of information, still it is nevertheless true
that the suit was instituted by the district attorney in the
namne and for the benefit of the United States. Control of
these suits, therefore, while they were'pending in the Circuit
Court, belonged to the district attorney under the general
superintendence and direction of the Attorney-General, and
he might, if he had seen fit, have discontiiiued them at any
stage of the proceedings prior to the appeals. Such control
on the part of the district attorney ceases whenever such a
suit, civil or criminal; is transferred to this court by writ of
error, appeal, or certificate of division of opinion, as the thirtyfifth section of the Judiciary Act also provides, that it shall
be the duty of the Attorney-General to prosecute and conduct all suits in the Supreme Court in which the Unitea
States shall be concerned, and such has been the unbroken
practice of this court in such suits from the organization of
the judicial system to the present time. Appointed, as the
Attorney-General is, in pursuance of an act of Conigress, to
prosecute and conduct such suits, argument would seem to
be unnecessary to prove his authority to dispose of these
cases in the manner proposed in the respecti- e motions
under consideration, but if more be needed, it will be tund
in the case of The Gray Jackel,t in which this court decided
that in such suits no counsel will be heard for the United
States in opposition to the views of the Attorney-General,
not even when employed in behalf of another of the executive departments of the government.
Whether tested, therefore, by the requirements of the
Judiciary Act, or by the usage of the government, or by
the decisions of this court, it is clear that all such suits, so
far as the interests of the United States are concerned, are
* The Oriole, Olcott, 67.

t 5 Wallace, 370.

Dec.1868.]

8ONrISCATIOIM

CASES.

Opinion of the court.

subject to the direction, and within the control of, the Attorney-General.
Objection is made to the granting of the motions, in these
cases, upon the ground that it would impair the vested rights
of the informer, mentioned in the respective libels of information. Argument for the informer is, that the allegations
of the libels afford -presumptive evidence that he filed the
infbrmations with the district attorney, and that the third
section of the act provides that, in that state of the case, the
proceedings shall be for the use of such informer, and the
United States, in equal 'parts. Perhaps the better opinion
is, that the allegations of the libels, in case of condemnation,
would afford prinm facie evidence that the person therein
named, as the informer, is entitled to be regarded in that
character; but the more important inquiry in this case is,
whether he possesses any such interest in the property seized,,
before final condemnation, as will prevent the Attorney-General from dismissing the suits, as proposed in the motions?
Much aid will be derived, in the solution of that question,
by a comparison of the third section of the act, invoked.as
supporting the views of the informer, with similar provisions in other acts of Congress, upon analogous subjects.
Regulations were prescribed for the distribution of fines,
penalties, and forfeitures, in the first act passed by Congress
for the collection of maritime duties, including forfeitures
arising from seizures on navigable waters, as vell as on land,
and the same provisions, in substance and effect, were incorporated into the act of the 2d of Mdrch, 1799, which for many
purposes, remains in force to the present time.*
Those regulations direct that one moiety of the fines, penalties, and forfeitures recovered by those acts, after deductin"' all proper costs and charges, shall be paid into the
treasury, and that the other shall, in certain cases, be divided, in equal proportions, between the collector, naval
officer, and surveyor of the port; 'and, in other cases, that
one-half of that moiety shall be given to. the informer, and
* 1 Statutes at Large, 48, 697.

CONFISCATION

CASES.

[Sup. CL

Opinion of the court.

the remainder only to the officers of the customs. Such
fines, penalties, and forfeitures were required by those acts
to be sued for and recovered in the name of the United
States, in any court competent to try and determine the
controversy.
Questions of various kinds arose in the construction of
those regulations, especially in cases where the claims of
informers came in conflict with the assumed rights of subsequent purchasers, and with the action of the Secretary of
the Treasury, in remitting such forfeitures under the act
of Congress conferring that power upon the head of that
department.*
Differences of opinion existed among the justices of this
court, whether a forfeiture under those provisions, or others
of like character, gave such a title to the United States as
to overreach a bond fide sale to an innocent purchaser, when
made b efore seizure and suit for condemnation, but the
majority of the court adopted the affirmative of that proposition.t
No one, however, contended that any such rule could be
applied, in any way, except by relation back to the criminal offnce, in cases where the title had been consummated
by seizure, suit, and judgment, or decree of condemnation.
Next controversy arose between the collector and the heirsat-law of his predecessor, in a case where the seizure bad
been made by the latter, in his lifetime, and while he was
in office, but the decree of condemnation was not entered
till after his decease, and the appointment of his successor.
Payment of the amount, as ordered in the decree of distribution, was made to the collector in office at the date of the
decree, but the court held that the money belonged to his
predecessor, in 6onsequence of the inchoate right which he
acquired, by virtue of the seizure, and the incipient steps
taken by him to cause the suit to be instituted.t
* 1 Statutes at Large, 506, 626.

f United States v. Bags of Coffee, 8 Cranch, 404; The Mars, Id 417.
1 Jones v.Shore's Exrs., 1 Wheaton, 468.

Dec. 1868.]

CONFISCATION OASES.
Opinion of the cofirt.

Express ruling of the court in that case was, that the right
of the collector to forfeitures in rem, attached on the seizure,
but that the right must be defined and consummated by the
judgment or decree. Authority to remit such finLes, penalties, and forfeitures, was conferred upon the, Secretary of
the Treasury, by the act of the 3d of March, 1797, and the
next important controversy which arose upon the subject,
was as to the extent of that authority, and whether the secretary could remit the share of the informer, or that"of the
officers of the customs, subsequent to the judgment or final
decree.
Just prior to the decision, in the case of Jones v. Shore's
-Exrs., Judge Story-ruled, in the Circuit Court, that the
right of the collector, antecedent to the judgment or decree,
was merely inchoate, but he added, what was not necessary
to the decision of the case, that his right to the forfeiture
vested absolutely with the final sentence of condemnation,
and that, after judgment, it could not be remitted by the
Secretary of the Treasury.*
Unguarded expressions, supposed to .support the same
conclusion, are also employed in some of the prior, as well
as subsequent, decisions of this court.t
Doubts arose whether the secretary could remit a forfeiture or penalty, accruing under the several act6, subsequent
to the final decree or judgment, but those doubts were sbon
removed by a unaninious decision of this court, and one
which is characterized b; accurate analysis, clear statement,
and sound conclusions.$t
Merchardise was imported into the United States in violation of the non-intercourse act then in force, and the vessel
and cargo were seized- on that account, and were afterwards
condemned as forfeited. Subsequent to the decree of condemnation, the Secretary of the Treasury remitted the whole'
forfeiture, and this court held that he did not exceed his
The Margaretta, 2 Gallison, 516.
t Van Ness q. Buel, 4 Wheaton, 74.
1 United States v. Morris, 10 Wheaton, 281.

CONFISCATION CASES.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

authority; that neither the rights of the informer, nor the
rights of the collector, or other officers of the customs, were
violated in the case; that their rights were conditional, and
subordinate to the power of remission; and that the secretary had authority, under that act, to remit a forfeiture, at
any time before or after a final decree or judgment, until the
money was actually paid over to the collector for distribution, and that the power to remit extends not only to the interest of the United States, in the forfeiture, but also to the
share of the informer, and that of the officers of the customs.
Informations, to recover municipal forfeitures, whether
the seizure was made on navigable waters or on land, must
be instituted in the name of the United States, and they
must be prosecuted, in the subordinate courts, by the district attorney, and in this court, when brought here by appeal, or by writ of error, by the Attorney-General. Where
the seizure was made on navigable waters, the case belongs
to the instance side of the subordinate court; but where the
seizure was made on land, the suit is one at common law,
nd the claimants are entitled to a trial by jury.*
Mention of the name of the informer, in the information,
in such cases, is not necessary, as he is not a party to the
suit, nor is he entitled to be heard, as such, in any stage
of the proceedings. He cannot institute the suit, nor move
for process, nor join'in the pleadings, nor take testimony,
nor except to the ruling of the court, nor sue out a writ of
eri'or, or take an appeal. Judgment is for the claimants, or,
for'the United States, and if for the latter, and the claimants
do not remove the cause into this court for revision, it then
becomes the duty of the court to render the decree for distribution. Prior to such a decree, the interest of the informer is conditional, and under the decisions of this, court
it continues to be so until the money is paid over, as required by law.t
*'3 Greenleaf on Evidence,

396; 1 Kent's Com. (11th ed.), 337; The

Sarah, 8 Wheaton, 394; Armstrong's Foundry, 6 Wallace, 769.
t United States v. Morris, 10 Wheaton, 290.

.Dec.
1'868.]1
1

UNITE-D STATES. V.

ADAMS.

Syllabus.

Viewed in any light, it is quite clear that the informer, in
these cases, has no vested interest in the subject-matter of

these suits, and that both motions ought to be
GRANTED.

The order in the first case is, that it be dismissed, kund

that order also disposes of Nos. 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, and 33,
34, and 35.
Order in the secbnd case is, that the decree be reversed,
as stipulated by the parties, and that the cause be remanded,
with directions to dismiss the libel of information; and this
order also disposes of Nos. 44, 46, 48, 68, and 64, on the
calendar.
[See supra, 166, Dorsheimer v. United States.]

UNITED STATES V. ADAMS.
1. It is the duty of the Secretary of War, as head of the War Department,
to see that contracts which belong to his office arc properly and faithfully executed, whether he have made the contracts himself or have
conferred authorityon others to make them; and if he becomes satis.
fled that contracts which lie has made himself are being fraudulently
executed, or that those made by others were made in disregard of the
rights of the government, or with the intent to defraud it, or are'being
unfaithfully executed, it is his duty to interpose, arrest the execution,
and adopt effectual measures to protect the government against the dishonesty of subordinates.
2. If there exist well-grounded suspicions, or facts unexplained, tending
strongly to the conclusion that contracts have been entered into. and
debts incurred, within a particular military district, in disregard of the
rights of the govrnncnt, the secretary has a right and is bound to
issue an order to suspend the payment of all claims against it.
8. In such a case (especially where the military district in which the contracts were made and are to be carried into execution is one distant from
Wasbington, where Congress and the Court of Claims sit, and "a resort
to these tribunals would occasion delay and expense), tie appointment
of a board of commissioners, to meet at once at the place where all the
transactions out of which the claims and demands of which payment is
now suspended riginated-the appointment being for the simple pur.
pose of affording to such claimants as might desire a tribunal to speedily

