GENERES

v.

BONNEMER.

tSup. Ct..

Statement of the case.

The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The first motion to dismiss this appeal is made upon the
ground that the transcript of the record is incomplete, because of the omissioh of certain papers said to have been
used in the court below, but not to be found when the trans.cript was made.
The motion must be denied. Proqf that the papers alleged
to be wanting were used in the court below, and have been
lost, must be made by affidavit. The certificate of the clerk
who made the transcript cannot be received as proper evidence of these facts.
The other motion is made upon the ground that the decree
below was rendered by the Provisional Court of Louisiana,
established by the military authority of the President, during
the late rebellion, from which no appeal could be properly
taken. But we find, on looking into the statutes, that when
the Provisional Court ceased to exist, its judgments and decrees were directed to be transferred into the Circuit Court,
,And to stand as the judgments and decrees of 'that court.
And it is from the decree of the Circuit Court that the appeal
under consideration was taken. As an appeal from that'court
it was regular, and the motion to dismiss must be denied.
All questions concerning the validity of judgments and
decrees of the Provisional Court will remain open until after
final hearing.
MOTIONS DENIED.

GENE4ES V. BONNEMER.
Ajudgment affirmed in a'case where the only ruling of the court, to be
found in the record, was a judgment rendered in favor of a plaintiff for
the recovery of a sum of money; where there'was no question raised in
the pleadings, no bill of exceptions, and no instructions or ruling of the
court; and where what purported to be a statement of facts, signed by
the judge, was filed more than two months after the writ of error was
allowed and filed in the court, and nearly a month after the citation was
issued.

IN this case, which came on error to the Circuit Court for

Louisiana, it appeared that the only ruling of the court, to

Dec. 1868.]

LABER ° V. ",COOPER.,
Syllabus.

be f6und iii the record, was a judgment rendered in favor
of plaintiff for the rpcovery of a sum of monuey. There was
no question raised on the pleadings; no bill of exceptions;
nb instructions or ruling of -the court.
There. was what purported to be a statement of facts,
signed by the judge, found in the record. It was filed more
than two months after the writ of error was allowed and'
filed in the court, and nearly a month afte' the citation was
issued by the judge. It did not appear to have been filed by,
consent of parties.
The case was submitted by Mr. Janin for the plaintiff in
error, and by Mr. -Durant,contra, pointing out the peculiarity
of the record.
Mr. Justice MITiLER delivered the opinion of the court.
To permit the judge to make a statement of faets, on
which the case shall be heard here, after !he case is removed
to this court by the service 6f the writ of error, or even after
it is issued, would place the rights of parties who have judgments of record, entirely in the power of the judge, without
hearing and without remedy. The statehient of facts, filed
without consent of the parties, must be treated as a nullity ;,
and, as there is nothing,on which error of the court below
can be predicated, the'judgment must be
AriFIRMED.

LABER V. OOOPER.
1. The fact that no replication is put in to two of-three special pleas, raising
distinct defences, is not a matter for reversal ; the case having been tried
bMIow as if the pleadings had been perfect and in form.
2. Nor; that such pleas have concluded to the court instead of to the country;
the matter not having been brought in any way to the attention of the
court below.
8 Nor, under similar omission, that the language of the verdict in.such a
case is, that we find the "1issue," &c., instead of the "' issues."
4. The fact, that testimony w~s objected to and received, does not oblige this

