Deb. 1.868.].

ThE'C
CHm'A.
Syllabus.

extended, as we have shown it did, to the, Alabama Ware.
house, won Id the insurance company have been' liable?
-Could it be held as necessary to exemption that trio persons engaged in riot or invdsion must have actually placed
the torch to the building insured, and that in such case if
half the town had been burned down the company would
have been liable for all thd. buildings insured, except the
one first fired? Or if a hurricane or earthquake .had started
the fire, is the exemption linited in the same manner?
These propositions cannot be sustained, and in estAblishing a principle applicable to fire origipating by explosion,
we must find one which is equally dpplicabl6 under like circumstances to the other causes ebracedin the same clause.
Without commenting further, we are; cleatly of opinion
.that the explosion was the.cause of the fire'in thif case, within
the meaning of the policy and that the'judgnient of the Circuit Court must be
REVERSED AND A NEW 'T~rAL GRANTED.

THE

OHjNA.

1. A State pilot law having provided for the educating and licensing of a
body of pilots, enacted that all masters of foreign vessels bound to or from
one of the State ports 19shall take.a licensed pilot, or, in case of refusal
to take'such pilot, shall pay pilotage as if one had been employed." It
enacted further, that any person not licensed as a pilot, who should
attempt to pilot a vessel as aforesaid, should l e "deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and, on conviction, be punished by a fine not exceeding
$100, or imprisoftment not exceeding sixty days," and that all persons
employing any one to act as a pilot not holding a license, should " forThe pilot first offering his services to
feit and pay the sum of $100."
a vessel inward bound had a right to pilot her in, and when she went
out the right to pilot her oft. Ueld,-that under this statute vessels were
compelled to take u pilot.
2. But held, further (the statute containing no clause exempting.the vessel
or owners from liability for the pilot's mismanagement), that the responsibility of the vessel for torts committed by it not being derived frozu
the law of master and.servant, or from the common law at all, but from
maritime law, which impressed a maritime lien upon the vessel i

THE CHINA.

I Sutp.M

Statement of the case.
whosesoever hands it might be for torts committed by it, the fact that
the statute thus compelled the master to take the pilot did not exonerate
the vessel from liability to respond for torts done by it, as ex.r., fcr a
collision, though the result wholly of the pilot's negligence.

En-Ron to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York.
The pilot act of New'York, having provided for the education and licensing of a body of pilots, enacts that all mastersLof
foreign vessels, bound to or from the port of New York, "shall
take a licensed pilot, or, in case of refusal to take such pilot,
shall pay pilotage as if one had been employed."
It enacts,
further, that any person not licensed as a pilot, who shall
attempt to.pilot a vessel bound as aforesaid, "shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and be punished by a fine not exceeding $100; OR, imprisonment not exceeding sity days. And
all persons employing a person to act as pilot, not holding
a license, shall forfeit and pay to the board of commissioners of pilots the suni of $100." The pilot first offering his
services to a vessel inward bound is entitled to pilot her in,
and when she goes out has the right, by port rules, .to pil3t
her out.
This pilot act of New York, it may be observed-differing
from certain acts of Great Britain, known as the" General
Pilot Acts," though agreeing with others, sometimes called
local pilot acts, to wit, the Liverpool pilot act and the Newcastle pilot act, and also in its main features with a Pennsylvania pilot act (though this inflicts no penalty of imprisonment, and provides only for a money fine 6f half pilotage, in case of refusal)-does not contain any provision to
the effect that the owner or master of any ship shall not be
liable. for any loss or damage occasioned by the neglect, incompetency, or default of any licensed pilot.
With the pilot act of New York, above set forth, in force,
the.steamer China, a foreign vessel bound from the port of
New York, and being then in pilot wafers, and in charge of
a licensed pilot of that port, ran into the Kentucky, a vessel
of the United States, and sunk her. The collision was occasioned by gross fault of the licensed pilot then in charge

Dec. 38,68J]

THE C~nr-A.
Argument for the offending vessel.

uf the China. The owners of the Kentucky accordingly
libelled the offending vessel in- the District Codrt of New
York. Her owners- set up-for defence, that at the time of
the collision' she was in charge of a pilot duly licensed by the
State of New York; that the said pilot Was -taken in conformity-with the laws of that State; ththe directedall the,
mancuvres of the steamer which preceded the collision, and
that the same was not in consequence of any neglgence' of.
her officers or crew.
The care thus presented the queftion whether a vessel, in
bharge of a licensed pilot, whom the statutes of the State,
governing the port whence she sailed, enacted positively
that the vessel should take aboard under penalties named,
was liable in 'rem for a tort committed by her, the result'
wholly of this pilot's negligence.
The 'District Court held that she was, and the. Circuit.
Court having affirmed'the decree, the question was now
here on appeal.
Mr; D. D. Lord, for the owners of the China, appellants,6ojitended that the pilot act of New York was imperative.' The
China was compelled to take a licensed pilot, and had 'not'
.even a right to choose from the body." If this was. so, the
conclusion which the appellants sought to establish fbllowed;
for nothing could be more unjust than for judicial law, to
hold -men responsible for the consequences of acts 'which
statute law compelled them to perform, 'and'for the nonperformance of which, if they bad not performed them; the
.judicial law itself would have fned or imprisoned them.
The fact that there was no "exemption" clause in the
New York'statute was not important. That clause -in the.
general pilot acts of Gieat Britain only gave words and form
to a principle resulting already from previous requirements,
the principle being, that the ownersof the ship having been,
compelled t9 surrender her to an. agent of the law, in whose
selection. they had no' voice, and over whom, when put in
charge, they had no' power in any ordinary case, they should
not be held responsible Yor his mismanagement; amisman.

56

THE CHINA.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the vessel struck.

agement which it was reasonable to infer would not have
occurred had they selected their own agent.
These views are supported by English cases* which overrule other ones, perhaps, not consistent with our position.
The American cases do not conflict with it. They all arose
from the acts of pilots not taken by compulsion of law. In
The CO'eole,t decided by Mr. Justice Grier, the strongest case
against us, it was held expressly that the statute (which provided only for a money fine of half pilotage in case of refusal to take a pilot), was not compulsory.
.17r. Evarts, contra:
1. The theory of the specific responsibility of the offending vessel to make good the injury which her improper navigation has inflicted upon an innocent sufferer proceeds upon
reasons, both of justice and of policy, which exclude the
protection against such responsibility asserted on the other
side. This theory treats the faults of conduct in' the vessel's
navigation as imputable to the vessel itself, and discards as
immaterial all considerations touching the adjustment among
the navigators, or between them and the owners, of the personal fault or personal responsibility of the misgovernment
of the vessel. It also gives to the sufferer the security of
redress which the vessel itself, in its value and 'its subjection to judicial recourse, furnishes, as contrasted with the
contingencies of personal sufficiency or personal accessibility
of the individuals in fault. Accordingly, in practical executioni of this theory, the very blow which inflicts the culpable
injury upon the innocent vessel, impresses in her favor a lien
of indemnity upon the offinding vessel. The proceeding in
rem -of the admiralty is but a judicial consummation of this
lien, and requires for its support nothing but proof of such
-fault of thevessel as, by the rules of maritime law, raises the
*'The Argo, Swabey, 462; The Famna, 2 W. Robinson, 184; The Batavia, lb. 407; Thb Agricola, lb. 10; The Maria, 1 Id. 95; The Protector,
lb. 45;. The Christiana, 2 Hlaggard, 183; Ritchie v. Bowsfield, 7 Taunton,
809; Carruthers v. Sidebotham, 4 Maule & Selwyn, 77.
f 2 Wallace, Jr.,
485.

Dec. 1868.]

,'TaE CHdA.

57

Arg~meit for the vessel struak.

lien. To displace this 'lien, and defeat this recourse in rem,
a d thus reduce the suffere to recourse against the indli:
vidual in fault, is, in effect,'to supplant the admiralty jdrisprudence and the admiralty procedure, and 6verthrow.the
reasons of justice and policy upon which they ire built up.,
Such Consequences can be assigned only to legislatidn, of
paramount authority over the jurisprudence, and t]e juridiction.
2. The collision between the Kentucky, a vessel ofthe
United States, and the China, a foreign anteamer, having, occirred upon the high seas, the municipal legislation of the
8tate'of New York is inadequate to the authority'imputed
to it, in derogation of the admiralty jurisdiction or the principjes of its administration. The foreign commerce of"the
United States cannot be withdrawn by State legislation from
the protection of the admiralty jurisdiction conferred upon
the Federal judiciary, in plenary and 'exclusive, terms,, by
the Constitution.
8, The pilotage regulations o. New York -re, simply ifi
support of the emoluments of the pilot service, p~idvided. by
the State, in aid of the commerce of its ports..
4. The Bitish statutes have made determinate and Iperemptory provisions, both of compulsion' upon the vessel to
employ the pilot and of exemption .from responsibility'while
directed by him.
5. But the doctrine of the British Admiralty Court, th'at
the. eljoining by statute of the taking of a pilot, and, in
.case of refusal, 'requiring the payment of pilotage dues,
amounts to a comuiionto take a pilot, and exempts-the
ship from responsibility while navigated under his cha.ge,
has never been followed in this country. It seems never to
have found favor with Sir William Scott.* Arid the whole
doctrine seems to be regarded with great distrust, notwithstanding the policy has been adopted in the statutes.t T~he
* The Neptune the Second, 1 Dodson, 467.

t The General de Caen, Swabdy, 10; The Mobile, lb. 69, 129; The Diana, I W. lobinson, 135; The Protector, lb. 45,.57'; The Massachusqttq; 'lb.
873; The Christiana, 7 Moore, PAvy Council, 160; The-Schwable, '14 ]d.

Tn CIIINA.

[Sup, Ct

Opinion of the court.

American cases are of uniform tenor,* and the wthole sub.
ject has been recently reviewed, and the doctrine of continued liability, notwithstanding the pilot regulations of the.
statutes, firmly established by Mr. Justice Grier in an important case in the Pennsylvania circuit.t
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a case arising out of a collision between the steamship China, a British vessel, then leaving the port of New
York for Liverpool, and the brig Kentucky, then on a voyage
frbm Cardenas to New York. The facts are few and undis,
puted. The collision occurred on the 15th of July, 1863, a
short distance outside of Sandy Hook. The brig was sunk.
The steamship was wholly in fault. It was not alleged, in
the argument here for the appellants, that there was either
fault or error on the part of the brig. The case turns upon
the effect to be given to the statute of New York, of the 3d
of April, 1857. At the time of the collision the steamship
was within the pilot waters of the poit of New York, and
Was in charge of a pilot, licensed under this act, and taken
by the master pursuant to its provisions. The pilot's orders
were obeyed, atid the catastrophe was entirely the result of
his gross and culpable .mismanagement. No question was
made in the argument, upon the subject; theevidence is too
clear to admit of any. These are all the facts material to
be considered.
The questions with which we have to deal, are questions

of law. :N others arise in the base.
It is insisted by the appellants that the statute referred to
compelled the master of the steamship to take the pilot, and
that they are therefore not liable for the results of his .misconduct.
241; The Halley, 2 Admiralty land Ecclesiastical Law Iteport Series, 8;
The MIna, Ib. 97f The Lion, lb. 102.
* Bussy v.. Donaldson, 4 Dalias, 206; Williamson v. Price, 4 Martin, N.
S. 899; Yates v. Brown, 8 Pickering, 23; Ddnison v. Seymour, 9 Won.
dell, 1 ;'Smith v. Condry, 1 Howard, 28; The Lotty, Olcott, 329.
t The Creole,'2 Wallace,'Jr., 486.

Deo. 1868.]:

Tn-n Gaw.
Opinion f ie doirit.

British adjudications are relied ,upon in sipport of both
these'propositiois. In order t9 appreciate these authorities,
the British pilot ats must be understood. .They are the 52'
George IH, oh.'30; the 6'George-'IV, dh. 125; the-Shipping.
Act of the i7 and 18 Victoiia; ch. 104; theLiverpool Pilot
Act of 37 George II- Ih. 789, and the Newcastle Pilot Act
of the 41 George Ill, ch. 86. The three first mentioned
contain equivalent-provisions;- The same remark.applies to
,the two latter. The former all cohtain a clause to the effect'
that the "ow ner or master of any ship shall not'be answer.,
able for any loss or,damage pcrcasioned:-by th8 n'eglect,, de,.
fault, in'competency, or incapacity, of any licensed pilot.!
The latter contain, a system, of local, pilot regulations,, but
have no such provision. "They require that'a pil.t "shall be
takeni, and if not-taken, that pilotage shall, nevertheless, be.
paid: In these rIspects, and in most others, .they.are'sub,stantialiy the same. wih the statute of New-York.
1. Was the steamshipcompelled to take the pilot?
In the case of The Mari&,* in which the Liverpoo'PilotAct
was largely considered, Dr.,Lushibtton said: ,".lt never uoas
decided that aclause requiring 'apilot to b taken on board; or if
tiot talien, thpilotage'to be paid4, was not compulsory.
Now the'Liverpool Pilot Act prpvides for three cases: lst,
The case of essels homeward 'bound; .2d. Of vessels.-outward bound; and lastly, of vessels lying at anchorage; and
with reference to homeward bound vessels,. it.is provided in
ihe twenty-fourth section of the aot, that if the master refuses'to take apilpt on board, heis liable to the.payment of
pilotage. 'There vis, therefore, this distinction in the two
cases: that in the case 6f a-vessel'at anchor, the taking of
the pilot on-board is peifectly optional with the master, btit
in the case of a homeward bound vessel, it is enjoinedupon
him by thb provisions of the act, and if he refuses so to do,
he is rendered liable to the payment of thie pilotage dues.
This, in my opinion, amounts to compulsion to tace s ch vilot on
'board, and it was "soaheld by the learned judges by whom th .
*

1W. Robinson, 95...

THE

CHINA.

[Sill. Ct

Opinion of the court.

case of Sidebotham v. Carutherswas decided. What says Mr.
Justice Le Blanc? 'It appears that the master was compellalle to take the pilot on board, and it was in consequence
of his misconduct that the vessel was placed in such a situation, that when the water left her, she fell upon her side,
and thus the damage happened.' Without going further
into the case, it is sufficient to observe, that Lord Ellenborough and Mr. Justice Bailey were of the same opinion, that
the master was compellable to take the pilot on board."
Other authorities to the same effect might be referred to,
but it is deemed unnecessary. The one we have cited is
sufficient.
Suppose the New York statute, in the event of a refusal
to take a pilot on board, instead of full pilotage had given
the vessel or cargo to the pilot. Whether the amount to be
paid were large or small, it would operate in the same way,
and involve the same principle. The difference would be
not in the fact but in the degree of compulsion. If it be said
the master 'had the option to pay the pilotage, and proceed
without the pilot, the answer is, that he would have had the
same option if the consequence had been fine and imprisonment, or the visiting upon him of any other penal sanction.
In each case there would be compulsion, measured in its
force by the means pres~ribed to make it effectual.' A duty
is enjoined, and an obligation is imposed. The alternatives
presented are to receive the pilot; or to refuse and take the
colnseqaences.
In this connection it is proper to consider the particular
provisions of the New York statute. It enacts that the
master "shall take a licensed pilot;" that in case of refusal,
pilotage shall be paid, and that it.
shall be paid to the first
pilot offering his services. Anyperson not holding a license
under this act, or the law of New Jersey, who shall pilot or
offer to pilot any vessel to or from the port of New York,
by way of Sandy Hook, except such as are exempt by virtue
of this act; or any master on board a steamtug who shall
tow such vessel witthout a licensed pilot on board, shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars, oi

Dec. 1868.]

-THE

CgiNA.

Opinion of the court.

imprisonment not exceeding sixty days; and all persons
employing a. person not licensed under this act, or the laws
of Nqew Jersey, are subjected to a penalty of one hundred
dollars.
It. was contended by the counsel for the appellee, that if
the master had chosen to proceed without apilot, he would
have been liable only to the payment of pilotage; and that
none of the other penal provisions of the statute, according
'to its true meaning, apply in such a case. We have not
found it necessary to examine this subject. Giving to the
statute eitheri construction, it -seems to us,clear, in the light
of both reason and authority, that the pilot vas taken -by
the steamship upon compulsion.
2. This brings us to the examination of the second proposition. Does the fact that the law compelled the master to
take the pilot, exonerate the vessel from liability?
The immunity of the wrongdoing vessel when the pilot
is in charge, and alone in fault, is now well settled in English jurisprudence, both in the Admiralty, Court and in the
courts of common law. The rule must necessarily be the
same in both. In such cases the liability of the ship axidof
the owner' are convertible terms. The ship is not liable if
the owners are not, and no responsibility caniattach to the
owners, if the ship is not liable to be proceeded against.*
Some of the leading English cases will be adverted to,
according to the order of time in. Which they were determined.
The case of The Neptune the.Second, was decided two years
after the passage of the statute of 52 George IlL In that
case Sir William Scott said: "If the mere fact of having a
pilot on board and acting in obedience to his directions.
.would discharge the owner from responsibility, I am of
opinion that they would stand excused in the present case.
I think it is sufficiently established in proof, that the master
acted throughout in conformity to the Airections of the pilot.
But this I conceive is not the true rule of law. The parties
* The Druid, 1 W. iRobinson, SN .

THE . CmIqA.

[SuD. Ct,

Opinioh of the court.

who suffer are entitled to have their rdmedy against the
vessel that occasioned the damage, and are ndt under the
necessity of looking to the pilot, from whom redress is not
always- to be had, for compensation. The owners are ".espontsibre to the injured party for the acts of, the pilot, and
they must be left to recover the amount, as well, as they
can, against him. , It cannot be maintained that the circunmstance of having a pilot on, board, and acting in conformity
to his directions, can operate as a discharge of thp responsibility of the owners." The statute is not adverted to in
the case.
In The Attorney-General v. Case,* it was held by the Court
of Exchequer that the case was to be determined under the
Liverpool Pilot Act, and that the- statute containing the
clause of exemption did- not apply; that the vessel being at
anchor, it was optional with the master to take a pilot or
not, and that the vessel was therefore liable. It was strongly
intimated that if she-had been under way, and the pilot had
been taken under the Liverpool Act, there would have been
no such compulsion as, upon general principles, would have
exonerated the vessel from responsibility.
In Caruihers v. Sidebotham,t the Court of King's Bench
h-eld that 'the pilot was compulsorily taken, and that, independently of the statute giving the exemption, the vessel,
upon general principles of municipal law, was not liable.
The Attorney-General v. Case was referred to in the argument. The ruling of the court was in direct antagonism to
the intimations in that case.
The Girolamo I was decided by Sir John Nichol.
He
held; among other things, that the provision in the 6 George
IV,that "the act should not affect or impair the jurisdiction of the High Court of Admiralty," limited the operation
6f the clause of exemption to prbeeedings in personam in the
common law courts, and left the admiralty jurisdiction to
be exercised in all respects as if~the exemption in the statiite had not been enacted. The judgment i's a very elabo4 &TPrice, 303.

t 4 Maule &' Se'

n, 78.

t 8 :Haggard, 169.

Dec. :1868.']

THE .O iNA.
Opinion of the court.

rate one. The vessel was 'held. liab!e, although in. charge
of a licensed pilot at the time of the collision.
This case was'followed. by The Baron Holberg,*'The Gladiator,t and. The Eolides.- ecided by the same judge in the'
same way.
So the English law stood until the decision by Dr. Lush.
ington in the.c.ase of Th&Protector.§ In that case the subject was examined with great-care and.fulness of research.
The learned judge expressed the opinion that Sir William:
Scott hdd decided the case of Tbe-Nptune the Second-in entire
ignorance of the statute of 52. George flI,,ch. 39, and that
the case, therefore, was not authority. -He overruled the
judgment of Sir John Nichol as to the elfect of the jurisdiction clause of the statute, and held the true rule to be,
that the statute took away the responsibility of the vessel
wheneve,r the 'accident was imputable to the fault of the
pilot alone. The couit found the fact so to be, and upon that
ground dismissed the qwfier of the Protectqr from the suit.
In The marial] the subject was again ably examined by the
same admiralty judge. It was held that, under the Newcastle Pilot Act the taking of a pilot by a foreign ship, was
compulsory, and that if damageoccurred to another vessel
by his default, the vessel which had taken him was iot
liable; both upon general principles and by virtue of the act-of 5 George IV, ch. 55. The rule laid'down by the Court
of King's 23ench in Caruthersv. Sidebothamc was recognized
and affirmed.
These judgments have stood unquestioned'down to" the
present time. There have been numerous adjudications.
settling the construction of the statutory provision that. the
vessel shall be exonerated where ihe pilot is in fault.
The following propositions may be deduced from them:
The statute giving the immunity where a licensed pilot is
,employed, abridges the natural right of The injured party to
compensation', and is therefofe to -be construed strictly.
* 3 Haggard, 244.

1 W. Robinson, 45

f

8 Tb.'340.

]1

b. 95.

8 lb. 367.
31
4 Maule & Selwyn, 78.

THE CHINA.

.[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

The exemption applies only where the pilot is actually in
charge of the vessel, and.solely in fault.
If there be an'ything which concurred with the fault of
the pilot, in producing the accident, the exemption does not
apply, and the vessel, master, aild owners are 'liable.
The colliding vessel is in all casesprimdfacieresponsible.
The burden of proof rests upon the party claiming the
benefit of the exemption. He must show affirmatively that
tle pilot was in, fault, and that there was no fault on the
part of the officers or crew, " vhich might have been in any
degree conducive to the damage."*
The last in the series of these authorities, to be considered, is The _Balley.t The owners of a foreign ship sued the
owners of an English ship in the British Court of Admiralty,
clai'ming damages for a collision in Belgian waters. The
defendants pleaded that by the Belgian law' pilotage was
'compulsory. The plaintiffs replied, that by the same law
the wrongdoinug vessel was liable for the damages. The
case turned upon the sufficiency qf the latter proposition as
an answer to the' former._

Sir Robert Phfllimore, follow'ng the case of Smith v. Condry, decided by this court,t and o'lher authorities to which
he referred, held that the rights of the parties were governed
by the law of the place of the tort. In the course of his
learned and elaborate opinion, he said:
"The English legislature has thought it expedient that
only certain persons, under certain restrictions, shall be
allowed to act as pilots in British waters; and that it shall
be compulsory upon all fnasters of ships to place the navigation of their vessel under the control of one of these
,licensed pilots. And the common law of England has ruled,
that in such cases the natural responsibility of the owner,of the
vessel, for injuries done to the property or persons of others,
- The Gen. De Oaen, 1 Swabey, 10; The Diana, 1 W. Robinson, 135; The
Protector, lb. 60; The Chrietiana, 7 Moore, P. 0. 171; The Minna, Law
Rep. Ad. & Ecc. pt. 2, Nov. 1868, p. 97; The Ion , Law Reports, 1 Privy'
Council, 432,
t Law Reports, 1868, pt. 2, Ad. & Ecc. p. 2
J 1 Howard, 28.

Dec. '186 8.]

'THE, CHiNA.
Opinion of the court.'.

by the unskilful navigation of that vessel, shall cease, and
be transferred to the filot. This law holds, that the responsibility of the owner, for the acts of his servant, is founded
upon the presumption'that the owner chooses his servant,
and gives him orders, which h is bound to obey; and thatthe acts of the servant, so far as the interests of third parties
are concerned, must always be considered the acts o f the
owner. But no such presumptions, it is'said, can exist in
the case of compulsory pilotage, in which the State forces
its own servant upon the owner, and, indeed, in. some respects reverses the usual order of things on board ship, by
rendering it incumbent on the master to obey the order (f
,the pilot. But the considerations of domestic policy, which
have created this peculiar law, are not fotunded on principles oJ
universal law or naturaljustice. They are considerations of
British policy, which apply to British waters anil territory;
but not Flushing waters, in which this collision took place.
.....
Lord Stowell's mind, furnished as it was with the
prin.ciples of jurisprudence, rejected the argument for the
immunity of the wrongdoing vessel. . . . 1will frankly say,
that it appears to me diffcult to reconcile the c~aims of naturaljustice to the law which exempts the owner Who has a licensed
pilot on board, from all -liabilities for the injuries done, by'
the bad navigation of the ship, to the property of ai innocent
owner. . . . No one acquainted with the working of this
law, which exempts the wrongdoing vessel from liability
in this court, can be ignorant'that it is fruitful of injustice."
This survey of the English adjudications warrants several
observations,
Lord Stowell, overlooking the statute, refused to recognize
the principle of exemption. He held the "true rule4 of law"
to be, that fault created liability, notwithstanding that the
pilot was taken upon compulsion.
Sir John Nichol made a persistent effort to get rid of the
statute by giving the jurisdiction clause a construction which
annulled the operation of -the exemption in the Admiralty
Court.
Dr. Lushington and the Privy Council have held that the
VOL. VIL

5

THE CHINA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

exemption clause is to be strictly construed, and have given
it a construction so narrow as greatly.tb limit its operation
and impair its efficacy; whilq Sir'Robert Phillimore pronounced its working in the Admiralty Court "fruitful, of
iftjustice," and more than intimates that it is contrary to the
fundamental principles of natural right.
These results furnish little inducemeilts to us to establish
the principle in our jurisprudence.
The question -is not a new one in this country. It arose
as early as the year 180(6, in Bussy v. Donaldson.* In that
case the court said:
"The legislative regulations were not intended to alter or
obliterate the principles of law, by which the owner of a vessel was previously responsible for the conduct of the pilot,
but to secure in favor of every person-straigers as well
as residents-trading to our pof-t, a class of experienced,
skilful, and honest mariners, to navigate their vessels safely
up the bay and the river Delaware. The mere right of
choice is, indeed, one, but not the 6nly reason why the law
in general makes the master responsible for the acts of his
servant-and, in many cases where the responsibility is allowed to exist, the servant may not in' fact be the choice of
the master."
Williamson v. Pieree,t Yates v. -Brown,t and Deni'on v.
Seymour,§,involved the same principle, and were decided in
the same way.
In the case of The Creole, decided by Mr. Justice Grier,
on the dircuit; in the year 1853,11 the subjeft underwent a
learned and thorough examination, both by counsel and, the
court. The result was the same as in Bussy v. Donaldson.
It appears by that case, that Mr. Justice Wayne had ruled
the. point in the same way in his cjrcuit. No American adjudication to the contrary has been brought to our attention.
The question is now, for the first time, presented in this
court.
4 Dallas, 206.
9 'Wexidell, 1.

t 4 Martin, N. S. 399.
112 Wallace, Jr.,, 485.

1 8 Pickering, 23.

Dec. 1868.]

THE

.0HINA.

6?

Opinion of the court.

The New York statute creates a system 'of pilotage regulations. It does not attempt, in terms, to give immunity to
a wrongdoing vessel., Such a provision in a State la i would,
present an important queption, which, in this case, it is iiot
necessary to consider.
The argument for the appellants proceeds utibn the gen
eral legal principle 'that one shall not -be liable 'fgr 'the tort
of another imposed upon him. by the law, and who is, there t'
fore,'not his servant or agent.*
The reasoning by which the application of this principle
to the ease before us is attempted to be maintained, is specious rather than solid. It is necessary that both outwaid
and inward bound vessels, of the classes designated in the
statute, should have pilots possessing full. knowledge of the
pilot grounds over which they are to be conducted. The,
statute seeks to supply this want, and to prevent, as far as
possible, the evils likely to follow from ignorance or mistake as to the qualifications of those to be employed, by providing a body of trained and skilful seamen, at all times
'ready for th&service, holding out to them 'sufficient inducements to prepare themselves for the discharge of their duties,
and to pursue a business attended with so much ofperil'and
hardship. The services of the pilot are as much for the benefit of the vessel and cargo as thos6 of the'captain and crew.
His compensation comes from the same source as theirs.
Like them he serves the owner and is paid by the owne .
If there be any d~fault on his part, the owner has the sanlh.
remedies against him as against other delinquents on board.
The difference between his relations and those of the riaster
Is one rather of form than substance. It is the duty 6f the:
master to interfere in, cases of the pilot's intoxication or
manifest incapacity, in'cases of danger which he does not fore;
see, mn~d in all cases of great necessity.t The master hag the
same power to displace the pilot*that he has. to remove any
*
htlligan v. Wedge, 12 Adolphtis & Ellis, 737; Reaie v. Railway Company, 4 Exoheq-,.er, 244.
+ The Argo, 1 Swabey, 464; The Christiana, 7 Moore P. C 192.

-THE CHINA.

[Suip. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

subordinate officer of the vessel. He may exercise it or not,
according to his discretion.
The maritime law as to the position and powers of the
master, and the responsibility of the vessel, is not derived
from the civil law of master and servant, nor from the common law. It had its source in the commercial usages and
jurisprudence of the middle ages. Originally, the primary
liability was upon the vessel, and that of the owner was not
personal, but merely incidental to his ownership, from which
he was discharged either by the loss of the vessel or by
abandoning it to the creditors. But while the law limited
the creditor to this part of the owner's property, it gave him
a lien or privilege against it in preference to othee creditors.*
The maxim of the civil law-sic utere luo ut nl014 hmdas alienum.-may, however, be fitly applied in such cases as the
one before us. The remedy of the damaged vessel, if confined to the culpable pilot, would frequently be a mere delusion. He would often be unable to respond by paymentespecially if the amount recovered were large. Thus, where
the injury was the greatest, there would be the greatest
danger of a failure of justice. According to the admiralty
law, the collision impresses upon the wrongdoing vessel a
maritime lien. This the vessel carries with it into whosesoever hands it may come. It is inchoate at the moment of
the wrong, and must be perfected by subsequent proceedings. Unlike a common-law lien, possession is not necessary
to its validity. It is rather in the nature of the hypothecation of the civil law. It is not indelible, but may be lost by
laches or other circumstances.t
The proposition of the appellants would blot out this imDorLant feature of the maitime code, and greatly impair the
efficacy of the system. The appellees arc seeking the fruit
of their lien.
All port regulations are- compulsory. The provisions of
t

The Phoebe, Ware, 273 ; The Creole, 2 Wallace, Jr., 519.
The Bold Bucclcugh, 7 Moore P. 0. 284; Edwards v. The Steamer

F. Stocktcn, Crabbe, 580; The American. 16 Law Reports, 264; The Lion,
Law Rep., November, 1868, Ad. and Ecc. 107.

De&. 18 8.]

THE CHINA.
Opinion of Clifford and Field, JJ.

the statute of New York are a part of the series within that
category. A damaging vessel is no. more excused because
she was compelled to obey one than -another: The only
question in all such cases is, was she in fault? The appellants were bound to know the law. They cannot plead ignorance. The law of the place makes them liable. This
ship was brought voluntarily within the sphere of its operation, and they cannot complain because it throws the loss
upon them rather than upon the owners of the innocent vessel. We think the rule which works this result is a wise
and salutary 9ne, and we feel no disposition to disturb it.
The steamship is a foreign vessel. We have, therefore,
considered the learned and able argument of the counsel for
the appellants with more care than we should otherwise
have deemed necessary. Maritime jurisprudence is a part
of the law of nations. We have been impressed with the
importance of its right administration in this case.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD (with whom concurred Mr. Justice FIELD):
I concur in the pr6position that the pilot laws of New
York afford no defence to the appellants in this case, and
that the decree of the Circuit Court, determining that the
colliding steamship was liable, notwithstanding she had a
licensed pilot on board, ought to be, affirmed. Many English cases decide otherwise, but I am not satisfied with the
reasons given in their support, and have no hesitation in
concurring in the conclusion to which the majority of th3

court has come; but I do not concur in the proposition that
he State laws which require inward or outward bound vessels to pay pilot fees or half pilot fees, whether they employ
P. pilot or not, would afford any such defence in a case of
collision, even if it be admitted that a law imposing penalties, in'case of a refusal to employ a licensed pilot, would
have that effect. Whether the party charged is liable or
not, aside from the merits, depends in all cases upon his
relation to the wrongdoer. If the wrongful act was done bybinself, or wa@ occasioned by his negligence, of course he is

THE

CAINAo

[Sup. Ct;

Opinion of Qlifford and Field, JJ.

liable, and he is equally so, if the act constituting the fault
was done by one towards whom he bore the relation of principal, but the liability ceases where the relation of priheipal
entirely ceases, to exist, as in case of inevitable accident.
Unless the relation of principal entirely ceases to exist, the
party owning the vessel remains liable in a suit in personam.
When a vessel is chartered, the liability of the owner, in
respect to a collision happening in consequence'of the faulty
navigation of the ship, depends upon the inquiry whether
or nbt the master and crew can be considered to be his
servants. Settled rule is that w¢here the ship-owner provides
the vessel only, and the master and crew are selected by the
oharterer, the latter and nt the ship-owner is responsible for
their acts. But if the ship-owner provides not merely the
vessel, hut also selects the master and crew, he is still liable,
in case of collision, to the owners of the injured vessel, because the vessel, in the sense of the maritime law, is under his
control, though the wages of the master and crew may be paid
by the charterer. Such liability in the former case is shifted
from the real owner to the owner for the voyage; but the ship
is as much liable in the one case asin the other to a suit in
rem for the injury committedy because she sailed on the voyage as the propertly of the real owner and by his consent.
Port regulations ,are supposed to be known to the shipowner before he sends his vessel on the voyage, and the rule
,ofthe maritime law is, that in sending her to any particular
port he elects to submit to the lawful regulations established
at that port, and that his vessel shall be responsible'in case
she unlawfully collides with another vessel engaged in lawful navigation. Contrary to the rule adopted in the English
admiralty, the American courts have so held without an
exception which has fallen under my observation.*
,All of these cases decide that the State statutes requiring
The Carolus, 2 Curtis, 2269; The Hallock, 1 Sprague, 539; Bussy v.
Donaldson, 4 Dallas, 206; Yates v. Brown, 8 Pickering, 23; Villiamson v.
Price, 4 Martin, N. S. 399; Dennison 'v.
Seymour, 9 Wendell,. 1; Smith v.
Condrey, 1 Howard, 28; TheLotty, Olcott, 329; The Creole, 2 Wallace, Jr.,
611; The Rescue, 2 Sprague, 16.

Doc. 1868. ]

LANE CouXN; ORdoBT.

.71

.Statement of thle case.

the naster to take a licensed pilot and making provision for
the payment of pilot fees, do not amount to a compulsion
to take a pilot, and I am satisfied they are correct, and that
such a statute cannot be set up, as exempting a ship frpm
responsibility whil$ nayigated by a lidensed pilot.
Believing those decisions to be correct, I cannot*conse.nt
to pronoudnce them incorrect, especially as no such, co'nclusion is neessary to the right disposi'tion of the present case.
Neither the common law courts nor the qqurts of admiralty,in. this country, have adopted t&e. rhle established by Dr.'
Lusbington. On the contrary, they all have held that the
State laws requiring the master to, pay pilot fees,. whether
he employed a pilot 6r not, did not compel him to-surrender
the navigation, of his ship to the licensed pilot, or prevent
him from continuing in the command of his ship. Dissenting as I do from the rule laid down in the JEnglish cQurts; I
concur With the majority of the court'in overruling those
decisions as applied to our jurisprudence, but I caunot concur in otetruling the American decisions which assert the
opposite doctrine, because I believe they are correct.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

LANE, COUNTY V. t7REGON.

1. Afn enactment in a State statute that "1the sheriff shall pay over to. th(
county treasurer the full amount of the tate and school taxes, in gold
and silver coin," and that "1the several county treasurers shall pay over
to the State treasurer the-State tax, in gol4 and silver coin," requires'by
legitimate, if not necessary consequence, that the taxes named be collected
in coin. But if, in the judgment of this court, this were otherwise, yet
the Supreme Cpurt"of the State having held this construction to be correct, this court will follow their adjudication.
2. The clauses in the. several acts of Congress, of 1862 and. 1863; making
United States notes a legal tender for debts, have no reference to taxes
imposed by State authority. •

ERROR

to the Supreme Court of Oregon.. The case was

this:
Congress, February,'1862, authorized the issue of 6150-

