BOYD V. MOSES.

[Sap. CL

Statement of the case.

BOYD V. MOSES.
1. The stipulation of a charter-party of a ship to take a cargo of lawful
merchandise, implies that the articles composing the cargo shall he in
such condition, and be put up in such form, that they can be stowed and
carried without one part damaging the other.
2. The master of a ship may, therefore, refuse to take goods offered for
shipment, if in his honest judgment they are in such condition or of
such character, that they cannot be carried without injury to the rest of
the cargo, without violating a charter-party containing the condition
mentioned.
3. Accordingly, where lard, leaking from casks in which it was packed, was
brought to a ship, for shipment, under a charter-party, containing a
condition to take "a cargo of lawful merchandise," the hold of which
ship was, at the time, loaded with grain, the master was justified in
refusing to receive it in. that condition, he being of opinion, in the
honest exercise of his judgment, that it could not be carried without
injury to the rest of the cargo.
4. The master having refused to receive the lard, in its leaking condition,
unless the charterers of the ship gave him an agreement to hold the ship
harmless; and they thereupon having written to him a letter referring
to his refusal, and requesting him to receive the lard, and agreeing to
pay any damages which he or the ship might be subjected to on the discharge of the cargo, arising from the stowage of the lard between decks,
and its running on any other part of the cargo; and upon the receipt of
this letter, the master having consented to take the lard, and having
stowed it between deck., and damages having subsequently occurred to
the grain in the hold, from the leaking of the lard-Held, that the
azreement contained in the letter was a modification of the terms of the
charter-party in respect to the lard, and relieved the ship from the responsibility of safe carriage of the cargo, so far as that was affected by
the lard; and was equivalent to a stipulation to that effect embodied in
the charter-party; and that the stipulation, though of no efficacy as
between shipper and vessel, was valid as between charterer and owner.

THIS was an action in personam, brought originally in the

District Court for the Southern District of New York, by
the libellauts against the appellants, to recover a balance
due upon a charter-party. The District Court rendered a
decree dismissing the libel. The Circuit Court for the distrit reversed that decree, and rendered a decree for the
libellants. From this last decree an appeal was taken to this
court.
The charter-party was executed in July, 1862, at the city

Dec. 1868.J

BOYD V. MOSES.
Statement of the case.

of New York, in the harbor of which city the ship then lay.
The voyage stipulated was to be from New York to Havre,
with a cargo of lawful merchandise, which the cbarterers
wereto provide. The ship was to be tight, stanch, strong, and
every way fitted for the voyage. She was to load "under
inspection," and to "1go consigned to charterers' friends."
The cargo furnished by the charterers consisted principally of grain, lard, and tallow. The-grain, which was partly
in bulk and partly in bags, was stored in the hold. A portion of the lard was stored between decks. By the leaking of this lard a part of the wheat in the hold was damaged, and the question was, whether the damage should be
borne by the owners or the charterers of the ship. -It was
charged to the ship at Havre, and paid by the consignees,
who collected the freight, and its amount was withheld by
them friom the charter-money. 'The prdsent action was by
the owners against the charterers of the ship for the balance
thus withheld.
When the lard was brought to the ship to be taken on
board it was leaking from the casks in which it was packed.
It appeared to be mostly in a liquid state, and the stevedore
having charge of the loading refused without the consent
of the master to receive it, and store it between decks,the only part of the vessel not then occupied by merchandise. He was apprehensive that in its liquid state, leaking
from the casks, it would penetrate through the deck and
damage the wheat in the hold. The master, to whom the
matter was referred, also refused to take it, and informed
the charterers that he could not receive it unless they gave
him an agreement to hold the ship harmless. They thereupon wrote to him a letter stating that they understood he
objected to their shipping lard between the decks of the
ship, requesting birett& receive it, and agreeing to pdy ay
damages which he or the ship might be subjected to on the
discharge of the cargo at Hlavre, arising from the .3towage
of the lard between decks, and its running on any other part
of the cargo. Upon the receipt of this letter the master
consented to take the lard, and it was stowed between decks.

318

BOYD V. MOSES.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

There were between three and four hundred casks, and the
lard was leaking from nearly all of them. The weather was
unusually hot during the time the ship was receiving cargo,
so that it became necessary to relieve the stevedores by extra
men, and on some days they could not work at all. The
weather continued warm during the greater part of the
voyage, which lasted over a month. Upon the discharge of
the cargo twenty-six casks were found entirely empty, and
three hundred and twenty-seven partly empty. The decks
were covered with lard in a liquid state, being in some places
two or three inches deep, which had destroyed the pitch in
the seams and rotted the oakum, and had dripped through
and injured a large quantity of the wheat in the hold.

There was no dispute as to the extent of the damage thus
produced. As already stated, the question was upon whom
should the damage fall, the charterers or the owners of the
ship ?
The consignees of the ship at Havre were designated by
the charterers as their'friends, pursuant to the stipulations of
the charter-party, and acted as their agent, and not for the
master, in collecting the freight.

Mr. E. C. Benedict,for the appellants;Mr. . .f. Owen, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the facts of the case,
delivered the opinion of the court, as follows:
The stipulation of the charter-party to take a cargo of
lawful merchandise necessarily implied that the articles
composing the cargo should be in such condition, and be
put up in such form, that they could. be stowed and carried
without one part damaging the other. Whether in any case
articles offered can be taken with safety to other articles,
will depend upon a variety of considerations; the nature of
the articles, the state of the weather, the voyage contem-

plated, the amount of cargo already received, and other particulars. Lard, for example, can be carried in winter to a
northern port in-loose casks with little damage to other

articles, whilst injury may be reasonably apprehended if the

Dec. 1868.]

BOYD

V:, MOSES.

Opinion of the court.

voyage is to be made through the tropics, and the casks are
not perfectly tight. Very differeut care must necessarily be
given by the master in receiving and stowing goods perishable in their nature from heat or moisture, and such as are
unaffected by either. All that is required of him in such
case-he being a competent officer-in determining whether
particular goods are at the time in shipping order aud condition, or can be received in the state and stowage of cargo
already aboard, is that he shall not act capriciously or without due consideration, but shall exercise an honest and
reasonable judgment in the matter.
In Weston v. Foster,* the whole of the vessel, except the
cabin and room for the crew, sails, cables, and provisions,
was let, and the owners covenanted to receive all such lawful merchandise as the charterers should choose to put on
board. The master, who was a competent officer, took on
board all the cargo he thought his vessel could safely carry,
which, however, did not fill it, but left a space capable of
holding fifty tons more, and the charterers insisted that there
should be deducted friom the freight-money the amount they
would have received if fifty tons more had been brought.

But the court held that the whole charter-money was earned,
and that the honest opinion of the master, though not absolutely binding on the charterers, could oi ly be controlled by
decisive evidence of a mistake on his part.
The master was here sustained in refusing to take all the
cargo the hold of the vessel could receive, because, in the
exercise of his honest judgment, he thought it would en,danger her safety, notwithstanding the terms of the charterparty. Upon the same principle he may refuse to take goods
offered, if in his lhonest judgment they are in iucli a condition or of such character that they cannot be carried without
injury to the rest of the cargo. ,
In Weston v. .Minot/t where a vessel was chartered for a
voyage to Calcutta and back, to carry all lawfil goods placed
on board, and for a gross sum for freight out and back, to
*.2 Curtis, 119.

t 3 Woodbury & Mfinot, 436.

BOYD V.

MO]'SES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the entire capacity of the vessel, it was held that the charterparty must be considered to mean all goods not contraband
nor diseased, and as many of them as could be put on boara
without making the vessel draw too much for safety, and
that, if the goods put on board were heavy articles, and,
before the ship was full, sunk her -s low as. is usual and
proper without extra danger, the master might refuse to
take more without violating the charter-party.
The principle upon which the action of the master was
justified in these cases applies to the case at bar. Safety to
the cargo received on board, though not so high a consideration as safety to the ship, is one which should constantly
govern the action of the master.
That his apprehensions were well founded in this case is
established by the result. His conduct, therefore, in insistinig upon protection to his ship, was reasonable, and this was
in effect conceded by the charterers, as otherwise they would
have insisted upon the ship receiving the lard, or that the
matter should have been submitted to the inspector under
whose inspection it was stipulated the ship was to be loaded.
The agreement contained in the letter must be considered
as a modification of the terms of the charter-party in respect
to the lard in question. It relieved the ship from the responsibility of safe carriage of the cargo so far as that was
affected by the lard. It may be regarded as a stipulation
to that effect embodied in the charter-party; a stipulation
which, though of no efficacy as between shipper and vessel,
was valid as between charterer and owner.
If the charterers had owned the entire cargo, and had
induced the master, against his objection, to receive and
carry the lard in its leaking condition, they would not have
had any right of action against the ship for the damage
sustained, nor could they have recouped or set-off the
,amountof damage in an action against them for the chartermoney. The principle upon which the ship would be exempt
from liability in such case is applicable to the present case
between the charterers and owners.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

