Dec. 1"8]

'GREEN'Iv. -VA- Busm .

. W8

Syllabus.

to the general rule that other Qffences of the accused are not
relevant to establish the -main charge.*
The declarations of each defendant, relating to the transaction undel consideration, were evidence against the other,
though made in the latter's bsence, if the two were engaged
at the'time in the furtherance of a common design to defraud
the plaintifts. The court placed their admissibility on fhat
ground, and instructed the jury that if they were made after
the consummation of the enterprise they shouid'not bd regarded.
It is possible that the court erred in its charge upon the
subject of damages in directing the jury to add interest to
the value of the goods. Interest is not allowable as a matter
of law, except in cases of c~ntract, 6r the unlawful detention
of money. In cases of tort its allowance as damages rests in
'the discretion of the jury, But the error, if it be one, cannot be taken advantage of by the defendants, for they took
no exception to the charge on that ground. The charge is
inserted at length in the bill, contrary to the proper practice,
as repeatedly stated in our decisions, and contrary to an express rule of this court. It embraces several distinct propo.
sitfons, and a general exception ,in such case cannot avail
the party if any one of them is correct.
JUDGMENT.AFFIRMED.

GREEN V.VAN BUSKIRK.
1. A., B., ana C. were residents and citizens of New York. A.beingiidebted
to both B. and C., and having certain chattels personal in Illinois, mortgaged them to B. Two days afterwardp, and before the mortgage could
be recorded in Illinois, or the property delivered there, both record and
delivery being necessary by the laws of Illinois, though not by, those of
New York, to the validity of the mortgage as against third parties, C.
issued an attachment, a proceeding in Tern, out of one of the courts of
Illinois, and, under its laws, indue form, leviea on and sold the property. B. did uot make himself a party to this suit in attachment, though
* See also Hall v. Naylor, 18 New York, 588, and Castle . Bullard, 23
Howard, 172.

GREEN V. VAN BUSKIRK.

[Sup. ut.

Statement of the case.
he had notice of it, and by the laws of Illinois, a right to take defence to
it; but after its termination, brought suit in New York against 0. for
taking and converting the chattels. C. pleaded in bar the proceedings
in attachment in Illinois. The New York courts, holding that the only
question was B.'s property in the chattels on the day of the attachment;
that the existence or non-existence of such property was to be decided
by the law of the domicile of the parties, to wit, New York; and finally,
that by this law the property was complete in B. on the execution of the
mortgage, adjudged, that the proceedings in attachment in Illinois were
not a bar. ButHeld, by this court, that by such judgment, the "full faith and credit"
required by the Federal Constitution had not been given in the State of
New York to the judicial proceedings of the State of Illinois; and that
so the judgment below was erroneous.
2. The fiction of law that the domicile of the owner draws to it his personal
estate wherever it may happen to be, yields whenever, for the purposes
of justice, the actual situs of the property should be examined.
3. By the laws of Illinois an attachment on personal property there, will
take precedence of an unrecorded mortgage executed in another State
whcle record is not necessary, though the owner of the chattels, the
attaching creditor, and the mortgage creditor, are all residents of such
other State.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of New York,
the case being thus-,
The Constitution of the United States declares that " full
faith and credit" shall be given in each State to the judicial
proceedings of every other State, and that Congress may
prescribe the manner in which such proceedings shall be
proved and the effect thereof. Congress, by act of 1790, did
accor,dingly provide that they should "have such faith and
credit given to them in every other court of the United
States as they have by law or usage in the court from which
they are taken."
With these provisions in force, one Bates, who lived in
Troy, New York, and owned certain iron safes in Chicago,
Illinois, in order to secure an existing debt to Van Buskirk
and others, executed and delivered (in the State of New
York), to them, on the 3d of November, 1857, a chattel mortgage on the safes. Two days after this, one Green, also a
creditor of Bates, sued out of the proper court of Illinois a
writ of attachment, caused it to be levied on these safes, got

Dec. 1868.]

GREEN V. VAN BUSKIRK.
Statement of th case.

judgment in the attachment suit, and had the safes sold in
satisfaction of his debt. A.t the time of the levy of this attachment the mortgage had not been recorded in Illinois;
nor had possession of the property been delivered under
1i; nor had the attaching creditor notice of its existence.
Green, Van Buskirk, and Bates were citizens of New York.
It was admitted on the record that the proceedings in"attachment were regular and in coniormity with the laws of
Illinois; that the cases of .Martinv. Dryden and Burnell v.
Robertson, reported in the Illinois reports,* rightly explained
those laws; that Bates was the owner of the safes on the 3d
of November, 1857, and that Green was a bona fide creditor
of Bates. After the levy of the attachment Green received
notice of the mortgage, and the claim under it, and Van
Buskirk and the others, mortgagees, were informed of the
attachment; but they did not make themselves parties to it
and contest the right of Green to le-y on the safes, ,which
they were authorized by the laws of Illinois to do.
By statutes of Illinois,t any creditor can sue out a writ of
attachment against a non-resident debtor. Under this writ
the officer takes possession of the debtor's property. If the
debtor cannot be served with process, he receives notice by
publication, and if he does not appear, the creditor, on proving his case, has judgment by default, and execution is issued
to sell the property attached. These statutes further enactJ
t1- t mortgages of personal property are void as against third
persons, unless acknowledged and recorded, and unless the
property be delivered to and remain with the mortgagee.
In this ftate of the law in Illinois, Van Buskirk sued
Green in one of the inferior courts of New York, for taking
and converting the safes, sold as already mentioned under
the attachment. Green pleaded in bar the attachment proceedings in Illinois. But the court held that the law of
New York was to govern the case, not the law of Illinois,
though the property was situated there, and that by the law
1 Gilman, 187; 5 Id. 282.
t Revised Statutesof 1845, p. 630, seq.

lb. ch. 20

GREEN V. VAN BUsKIR9.

[Sup.M

Argumehtrfor the mortgagee.

of New York the title to the property passed on the exucution and delivery of the mortgage, and took precedence
of the subsequent attachment in Illinois. This judgment
being affirmed in the highest court of the State of New
York, Green, assuming that the "faith and credit" which
the judicial proceedings in courts of Illinois had by law and
usage in that State, were denied to them by the decision
just mentioned, took a"writ of error to this court, conceiving the case to fall within the 25th section of the Judiciary
Act, which gives a writ in cases where, in the highesp State
court, a clause of the Constitution of the United States is
drawn in q-hestion, and the decision is against the right,
title, or privilege specially set up.
The case having got here, a motion was made in December Term, 1866, to dismiss it for want of jurisdiction; the
ground of the motion having been, that the only defence set
up in the State court was, that the safes, at the time of
the seizure and sale belonged to Bates, and that by such
seizure and sale Green had acquired his title; that thus
the only issue tried and determined in the New York court
was the right of property and possession at the time of the
seizure.*
But this court overruled the motion'to dismiss, and held,
that while the question whether the proceedings in the flliiiois court had the effect which Green asserted for them, was
one to be decided after argument on the merits, yet that the
effect which those proceedings had there by law and usage
of that State,was a question necessarily decided by the New
York court, and decided against the claim set up by Green
under the provision of the Constitution quoted, ante, on page
140; and that so the case was properly in this court for review.
It was now here for such review; a review on merits.
Mr. Porter, with a brief of Mr. Gale, in support of the judgmen t below:
The defefice in the New York courts was, that the safes
* Green v. Van Buskirk, 5 Wallace, 810.

Dec. 1868.]

DREEN V. VAN BUSKIRK.
Argument for th6 attaching creditor.

were Bates's, and -were seized and sold as his, under execution in an attachment sdit against him. Thus, the leading
question was the ownership at the time of the attachment.
If the safes were then Bates's, the attachment took effect
upon his title; but if they had already passed to his ven-:
dees, then the attachment process could not reach theni.'
This leading question of previous ownership, and .as to the
effect of the sale, as against creditors, necessarily assumed
thht the Illinois suit and process had their full effect of establishing Green in the legal position of attaching creditor of
Bates, and entitled, -as such, to contest such sale. Whatever interest Bates had, that, it was admitted, was bound.
The question was, whether he had any interest, a matter
which did not depend on the record from Illinois, but on
the fact whether the assignment was to be governed by the'
domicile of the owners or by the locus rei sitm. Full faith
and credit was thus given t6 the record.
The New York courts rightly decided that the sale was
governed by the law of sales of New York; for a voluntary
transfer of personal property is governed everywhere by the.
law of the owner's domicile, except, perhaps, as against citizens of the local situation.* Had the question been tried
in Illinois, the courts in that State would, therefore, have
determined the effect of Bates's sale by the law of his domicile, and, of course, in the same way that it was determined
in New York.
I This decision, that the New York law governed the sale;
was right, for the further reason that the parties, as citzens
of ew York, were bound by its laws.
Messrs. A. J. Parkcer and Lyman Trumbull, contra, contended, that the position of the other side, now taken, was
just as good an argument against the jurisdictibn of the
court in the case, as it was on the question of merits. In
Sill v. Worswick, 1 H. Blackston, 690; 2 Kent, 376; Parsons v. Lyman, 20 Xew York, 103; Burlock v. Taylor, 16 Pickering, 335; Van Buskirk v. Hartford Ins. Co., 14 Connecticut, 688; Caskie v. Webster, 2 Wallace, Jr., 181.

GREN v. VAN BUSKIRK.

[Sup. Ct

Reply.

effect it was the argument made on the "motion to dismiss
for want of jurisdiction. But this court had refused to dismiss, and so decided that the argument was unsound. The
question now before the court had been really disposed of
in the former case. And it was disposed of rightly.
In the State of Illinois, and in all other States where there
is what is called an attachment law, an attachment levied
under it is" a proceedingin rem."* Such a proceeding, if there
be jurisdiction, is conclusive upon the res against all interested in the, property, and the attachment issued holds such
interest in the property as the defendant, by the laws of the
State, had at that time; though nothing beyond.t
If, therefore, the action had been brought by Van Buski'rk
in the State of Illinois, he could not, on the facts shown, have
recovered, but the court then would have said that he had obtained, under the attachment, a good right to the property.
Such being the effect of the judicial proceeding in question in the State of Illinois, we had a right, under the Constitution, and the act of Congress of 1790, to insist that the
same force, effect, and credit, should be given to it in the
State of New York.1
The wisdom of the constitutional and statutory provisions
in question making this requirement, and the necessity for
strictly enforcing them, are apparent in this case, where it is
sought by the defendants in error to convert an act which
was laufal in the State of Illinois, where it was done, and in
regard to property being there, into a trespass in the State of
New York, where they chose to bring these suits.
In conclusion, we refer the court to the case of Guillander
v.._Rowell,§ decided by the Court of Appeals of the State of
New York since the decision of this case. In that case the
court seems to abandon the position it held in deciding the
present case.
Beply:
In Guillanderv. Howell, the attaching creditor was a citiM
Martin v. Dryden, 1 Gilman, 212.
Christmas v. Russell, 5 Id. 290.

t Buckv. Colbath, 3 Wallace, 346.
35 New York, 657.

,De.;1868.]

eREEN

V.

VAN BUSKIRK.

Opinion of the court,

zen of the State in which, he cpplied 'or the benefit of the
attachment laws; while here h'e was a .citizen of another
State. This is a material point of distinction; for here the
parties, as citizens of New York, were bound by its laws.
Mr: Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
That the controversy in this case was substantially ended
when this court refused* to dismiss the writ of error for
want of jurisdiction, is quite manifest by the effort which
the learned counsel for the defendants in error now make,
to escape the force of that decision.
The question raisea on the motion to dismiss was, whether
the Supreme Court of New York, in this case, had decided
against a right which Green claimed under the Constitution
and an act of Congress. If it had, then this court had ju-,
risdiction to entertain the writ of error, otherwise not.
It was insisted on the one side, and denied on the other,
that the faith and credit which the judicial proceedings in
the courts of the State of Illinois had by law and usage in
that State, were denied to them by the Supreme Court of
New York, in the decision which was rendered.
Whether this was so or not, could only be. pr6perly considered when the case cafne to be heatd on its merits; but
this court, in denial of the motion to dismiss, held that the
Supreme Court of New York necessarily 'decided what effect
the attachment proceedings in Illinois had by the law and
usage in that-State; and as itdecided against the effect which
Green claimed for them, this court had jurisdiction', under
the clause of the Constitution which declares "thdt full'faith
and credit shall be given in each State to the public acts,
rccordsi and judicial proceedings in every other State," and
the act of Congress of 1790, which gives to those proceedings the same faith and credit in other States, that they
have in the State in which they were rendered.
This decision, supported as it was by reason and authority,
left for consideration, on the hearing of the case, the inquiry,
• 5 Wallace, 312.
VOL vir

10

146

GREEN V. VAN BUSKIRK.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the 6ourt.

whether the Supreme Court of New York did give to the
attachment proceedings in Illinois, the same effect they
would have received in the courts of that State.
By the statutes of Illinois, any creditor can sue out a writ
of attachment against a non-resident debtor, under which
'the officer is required to seize and take possession of the
debtor's property, and if the debtor cannot be served with
process, he is notified by publication, and if he does not
appear, the creditor, on making proper proof, is entitled to
a judgment by default for his claim, and a special execution
is issued to sell the property attached. The judgment is not
a lien upon any other property than that attached; nor can
any other be taken in execution to satisfy it. These statutes
further provide, that mortgages on personal property have
no validity against the rights and interests of third persons,
without being acknowledged and recorded, unless the property be delivered to and remain with the mortgagee.
And so strict have the courts of Illinois been in construing
the statute concerning chattel mortgages, that they have held,
if the mortgage cannot be acknowledged in the manner required by the act, there is no way of making it effective, except to deliver the property, and that even actual notice of the
mortgage to the creditor, if it is not properly recorded, will
not prevent him from attaching and holding the property.*
The policy of the law in Illinois will not permit the owner
of personal property to sell it and still continue in possession
of it. If between the parties, without delivery, the sale is
valid, it has no effect on third persons who, in good faith, get
a lien on it; for an attaching creditor stands in the light of
a purchaser, and as such will be protected.t But it is unnecessary to cite any other judicial decisions of that State
but the cases of Martin v. Dryden,l and Burnell v. Robertson,§
which are admitted in the record to be a true exposition of
the laws of Illinois on the subject, to establish that there the
* Henderson v. Morgan, 23 Illinois, 431; Porter v. Dement, 85 Id. 479.

t Thornton v. Dav anport, 1 Scammon, 296; Strawn v. Jones, 16 Illinois,
117.
S5 Id. 282.
I I Gilmisa, 187.

Dec. 1968.]

GREEN V. VAN BUSKIRK.
Opinion of-the court.

safes were subject to the process of attachment, and that the
proceedings in attachment took precedence of the prior unrecorded mortgage from Bates.
If Green, at the date of the levy of his attachment, did not
know of this mortgage, and subsequently perfected his attachment by judgment, execution, and sale, the attachment
held the property, although at the date of the levy of- the
execution he did know of it. The lien he- acquired, as a
bond fide creditor, when he levied his attachment without
notice of the mortgage, he had the right to perfect and
secure to himself, notwithstanding the fact that the mortgage
existed, was known to him, before the judicial proceedings
were completed. This doctrine has received the sanction.
of the highest court.in Illinois through a long series of deci'sions, and may well be considered the settled policy of the.
State on the subject of the transfer of personal prbperty. If
so, the effect which the courts there would give to these proceedings in attachment, is too plain for controversy. It is
clear, if Van Buskirk had selected Illinois, instead.of New
York, to test the liability of these safes to seizure and condemnation, on th6 sam e evidence and pleadings, their seizure
and condemnation would have been justified.
It is true, the court in Illinois did not undertake-t6 settle
in the attachment suit the title to the property, for.that ques- •
tion was not involved in it, but when the true state of 'the.
property was shown by other evidence, as was done in this
suit then it was obvious tthat by the laws of Illinois it could
be seized in attachment as Bates's property.
In order to give due force and effect to a judicial proceeding, it is often necessary to show by evidence, putside of the
record, the predicament of the property on which it' operated.
This was done in this case, and determined the effect the
attachment proceedings in Illinois produced on the safes,'
which effect was denied to them by the Supreme Court of
New York.
At*an early day in the history of this court, the act of
Congress of 1790, which was passed in.execution of an ex.'
press power conferred by.the Constitution, received an in-'

4"8

GREEN V. VAN

BUSKIRK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

terpretation which has never been departed from,* and obtained its latest exposition in the case of Chrislnasv. Russell.t
The act declares that the record of a judgment (authenticated in a particular manner), shall have the same faith and
credit as it has in the State court from wheace it is taken.
And this court say-: " Congress have therefore declared the
effect of the record, by declaring what faith and credit shall
be given to it;" and that "it is only necessary to inquire'in
every case what is the effect of a judgment in the State where
it is rendered."
It should be borne in mind in the discussion of this case,
that the record in the attachment suit was not used as the
foundation of an action, but for purposes of defence. Of
course Green could not sue Bates on it, becpuse the court
had no jurisdiction of his person; nor could it operate on
any other property belonging to Bates than that which was
attached. But, as by the law of Illinois, Bates was the
owner of the iron safes when the writ of attachment was
levied, and as Green could and did lawfully attach them to
satisfy his debt ini a court which had j'urisdiction to render
the judgment, and as the safes were lawfully sold to satisfy
that judgment, it follows that when thus sold the right of
property in them was changed, and the title to them'became
vested, in the purchasers at the sale. And as the effect of
th6 levy, judgment and sale is to protect Green if sued in the
courts of Illinois, and these proceedings are produce l for his
own justification, it ought to require no argument to show
that when sued in the court of another State for the same
transaction, and he justifies in the same manner, that he is
also protected. Any other rule would destroy all safety in
derivative titles, and deny to a State the power to regulate
the transfer of personal property within its limits and to subject such property to legal proceedings.
Attachment laws, to use the words of Chancellor Kent,
"are legal modes of acquiring title to property by operation
of law." They exist in every State for the furtherance of
* M ills v. Duryee, I Cranch, 481.

t- 5 Wallace, 290.

Dec. 1868.1

t. VAN BusxiPm.
tGREEi

149

Opinion of the court.

justice, with more or less of liberality to creditors. A.id if
the title acquired under the attachment laws of a State, and
which is valid there,,is not to be held v}alid in evqry other
State, it were better that those/laws were abolished, for they
would prove to be but a snare and a delusio'n to the creditor.
The Vice-Chancellor of New York, in Cockran v. .Fich,*
-vhen discussing the effect of certain attachment proceedings
in the State of -Connecticut, says: "As there was no fraud
shown, and the court in Connecticut had undoubted jurisdiction in rem against the complainant, it follows that I am
bound in this State to give to the proceedings of that court
the same faith and credit they would have in Connecticut."
As some of the judges of New York had spoken of these
proceedings in another State, Iwithout service of irocess or
appearance, 4s being nullities in that State and void, the same
-;ice-chahcellor says: "But .these expressions are all to be
'referred to the cdses then-under consideration, and it will be
found ,that all those were siiis brought. upon the foreign
judgment as a debt, to
0 enforce it dgainst "the person of the
debtor, in'
which it wa" attpmpted to set up the judgment
as one binding on the person."
Th6 distinction between the effect of proceedings by for-,
eign attachments, when offered in evidence as the ground of.
recovery against the person of the debtor, and their effect
when used'in defenc.e to justify the conduct of the attaching
creditor, is mafiifest and supported by authority.t Chief
Justice Parker, in Hall v. Wllians,$ speaking of the force
and effct of judgments .recovered in other States, says
"Such'a judgment is to conclude as to everything over
which the court which rendered it had jurisdiction. If the
property of the citizen of another State, withiv its .lawful
jurisdiction, is condemned by lawful process there, the decree is final and conclusive."
It would seem to be unnecessary to continue this investigation further, but our great respect for the learned court
1 Sandford Ch.146.
t Cochran v. Fitch, 1 Sandford Ch. 146; Kane v. Cook 8 California, 449.
* 6 Pickering, 232.

GREEN V. VAN BUSKIRK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

that pronounced the judgment in this cae, induces us to
notice the ground on which they rested their decision. It
is, that the law of the State of'New York is to govern this
transaction, and not the law of the State of Illinois where
the property was situated; and"as, by the law of New York,
Bates had no property in the safes at the date of the levy of
the writ of attachment, therefore none could be acquired by
the attachment. The theory of the case is, that the voluntary transfer of personal property is to be governed everywhere by the law of the owner's domicile, and this theory
proceeds on the fiction of law that the domicile of the owner
draws to it the personal estate which he owns wherever it
may happen to be located. But this fiction is by no means
of universal application, and as Judge Story says, "yields
whenever it is necessary for the purposes of justice that the
It has
actual silas of the thing should be examined."
the
tax
to
the
State
of
the
power
on
York
in
New
yielded
a
sister
in
situated
citizens,
of
her
of
one
personal property
State,* and always yields to "laws for attaching the estate
of non-residents, because such laws necessarily assume that
property has a situs entirely distinct from the owner's domicile." If New York cannot compel the personal property
of Bates (one of her citizens) in Chicago to contribute to the
expenses of her government, and if Bates had the legal right
to own such property there, and was protected in its ownership by the laws of the State; and as the power to protect
implies the right to regulate, it would seem to follow that
the dominion of Illinois over the property was complete,
and her right perfect to regulate its transfer and subject it
to process and execution in her own way and by her own
laws.
We do not propose to discuss the question bow far the
transfer of personal property lawful in the owner's domicile
will be respected in the courts of the country wber6 the
property is located and a different rule of transfer prevails.
The People ex. rel. Hoyt
225.

.

The Commissioner of Taxes, 23 New York,

De , 1868.1-

GREEN V. VAN BUSKIRK.

151

Opinion of the court.

It is a vexed question, on which learned courts.have differed;
but after all there is no absolute right to have such' transfer
respectdd, and it is only on a principle of comity that it is
ever allowed. And this principle of comity always yields
when the laws and policy of the State where the property is
located has prescribed a different-rule of transfer with that
of the. State where the owner lives.
We have been referred to the case of Guillanderv. .owell,*
redently decided by the Court of Appeals of New York, and
as we understand the .decision in that case, it harmonizes
with the views presented in this opinion. A citizen of New
York owning personal property in New Jersey made an assignment, with preferences to creditors, which was valid in
New York but void in New Jersey. Certain creditors in New
Jersey seized the property there under her foreign attaphmeat laws and sold it; and the Court of Appeals recognized
the validity of the attachment proceeding, and disregarded
ihe sale in New York. That case and the one at bar,are alike
in all respects except that the attaching creditor there waE
at, citizen of the State in which he applied for the benefit of
the attachment laws, while Green, the plaintiff in error,
was a citizen of New York; and it is insisted that this.point
of difference is a material element to be considered by the
court in determining this controversy, -for the reason that
the parties to this suit, as citizens of New York, were bound
by its laws. But the right under the Constitution of the
United States and the law of Congress which Green invoked
to his aid is not at.all affected by the question of citizenship.
We cannot see.why, if Illinois, in the spirit of enlightened
legislation, concedes to. the 'citizens of other States equal
privileges with her own in her foreign attachment laws, that
the judgment against the~personal estate located in her. limits of a non-resident, debtor, which a citizen of New 'York
lawfully obtained there, should have a different effect given
to it undet' the Provisions of the Constitutiodi and the law
of Congress, becaus6 the debtorf against whose property it
was recovered, happened also to be a citizen of New York.
* 25 -NewYork Reports, 657.

THE SIREN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of New
York is REVERSED, and the cause remitted to that court with
instructions to enter
JUDGMENT FOR THE PLAINTIFF IN ERROR.

THE

SIREN.

1. A claim for damages exists against a-vessel of the United States guilty of
a maritime tort, as much as if the offending vessel belonged to a private
citizen. And although, for reasons of public policy, the claim cannot be,enforced by direct proceedings against the vessel, yet it will
be enforced, by the courts, whenever the property itself, upor which
the claim exists, becomes, through the affirmative action of the United
States, subject to their jurisdiction and control. The government, in
such a case, stands, with reference to the rights of the defendants or
claimants, as do private suitors, except that it is exempt from costs, and
from affirmative relief against it, beyond the demand or property in
controversy.
2. By the admiralty law, all maritime claims ppon the vessel extend equally
to the proceeds arising from its sale, and are to be satisfied out of them.
These principles were thus applied:
A prize ship, in charge of a prize master and crew, on her way from the
place of capture to the port of adjudication, committed a maritime tort
by running into and sinking another vessel. Upon the libel of the government, the ship was condemned as lawful prize, And sold, and the
proceeds paid into the registry. The owners of the sunken vessel, and
the owners of her cargo, thereupon intervened by petition, asserting a
-Wir upon the proceeds for the damages sustained by the collision:
Bold, that they were ertitled to have their damages assessed and paid
out of the proceeds before distribution to the captors.
3. The District Court of the United, States, sitting as a prize court, may
hear and determine all questions respecting claims arising after the capture of the vessel.
APPEAL

from the District Court for Massachusetts.

The steamer Siren was captured in the harbor of Charleston in attempting to violate the blockade of that port, in
February, 1865, by the steamer Gladiolus, belonging to the
navy of the United States. She was placed in charge of a
prize master and crew, and ordered to the port of Boston

