THE BANKS V. THE MAYOR.

[Sup. -Q.

Syllabus.

the will of Stephen Girard, were not intended to have any
right, title, or claim whatsoever to the propbrty.
In. fine, the bill was rightly dismissed, because:
1st. The residue of the estate of Stephen Girard, at the
time of his death, was, by his will, vested in the corporation
oii valid legal trusts, which it was fully competent to execute.
2d. By the supplement to the act incorporating tile city
(commonly called the "Consolidation Act"); the identity of
the corporation is not destroyed; nor can the change in its
name, the enlargement of its area, or increase in the number of its corporators, affect its title to property held at the
time of such change.
3d. The corporation, under its amended charter, has every
capacity to hold, and every power and authority necessary
to execute the trusts of the will.
4th. That the difficulties anticipated by the bill, as to the
executiop of the secondary trusts, are imaginary. They
have not arisen, and most probably never will.
5th. And if they should, it is a matter, whether probable
or improbable, with which the complainants have no concprn, and cannot have on any possible -contingency.
DECREE AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

THE BANKS v. THE MAYOR.
1. Where an act of a State legislature authorized the issue of bonds, by way
of refunding to banks such portions of a tax as had been assessed on
Federal securities inade by the Constitution and statutes of the United
States exempt. from' taxation, and the officers who were empowered to
issue the obligations refused to sign them, because, as they alleged, a
portion of the securities for the tax on which the bank claimed reimbursement, was, in law, not exempt, and the highest court of the State
sanctioned this refusal: Held, that this was a decision by a State court
against a right, privilege, or immunity claimed under the Constitution or
a statute of the United States, and so that this court had jurisdiction, under
the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, and the amendatoiy act o6 Fbbruary 5th, 1867.
2. Certificates of indebtedness issued by the United States to creditozs of the

Dee.1868.]

THE BANKS v. THE

.AYObrt.

17

Statement of the case.
government, for supplies furnished to it in carrying on the recent war
for the integrity of the Union, and by which the government promised
to pay the sums of money specified in them', with interest, at a time
named, 'are beyond the taxing power of the States:

TH.ESE were three cases in error to the Court of Appealq
of New York, in which the people of that State, at the relation of different banks there, were plaintiffs in error, and
the mayor and controller of the city of New York were defendants. Each presented, under somewhat different forms,
the same quistion, namely: "Are the obligatious of the
United States, known as certificates of indebtedness, liable
to be taxed by State legislation?"
The certificates referred to were issued under authority
of Congress, empowering the Secretary of the Treasury to
issue them to any public creditor who might be desirous of
receiving them. They were payable in one year or earlier,
at the option of the government, and bore six per cent. in.
terest. In the present cases, they had been issued to crediiors for supplies ncessary to carrying on the war for the
suppression of the late rebellion.
The three cases were 4rgued and considered together.
The more immediate case in each was thus: In 1868 and in
1864, the proper offieers of the State, acting undei the laws
of New York, assessed certain taxes upon the capital stock
of the several banking associationsgin that State. Some of
these banking associations resisted the collection of the tax
on the ground that, though nominally imposed upon their
respective capitals, it was, in fact, imposed upon the bonds
and obligations of the United States, in which a large proportion of these capitals was invested, and which, under the
Constitution and laws of the United States, were exempt
from State taxation.
Thid question was brought before the Court of Appeals,
which sustained the assessments, and disallowed the claim
of the banking associations.
Frqm this decision an appeal was taken to this court,.upon
the hearing of which, at the December Term, 1864, it was
ad'udged that the taxes imposed upon the capitals of the as
VoL.

VU.

2

18

THE BANKS'V. THE MArOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

sociations were a tax upon the national bonds and obligations in which they were invested, and, therefore, so far, contrary to the Constitution of the United States.*
A mandate in conformity with this decision was sent to
the Court of Appeals of New York, which court thereupon
reversed its judgment, and entered a judgment agreeably to
the mandate.
Afterwards, on the 30th of April, 1866, the legislature of
Nev York provided by law tor, refunding to the banking associations, and other corporations in like condition, the taxes
of 1863 and 1864, collected upon that part of their capitals
invested in securities of the United States exempt by law
from taxation. The board of supervisors of the county of
New York was charged with the duty of auditing and allow,ing, with the approval of the mayor of the city and the corporatioll Counsel, the amount collected from each corporation for taxes on the exempt portion of its capital, ,together
with costs; damages, and interest. Upon such auditing and
allowance, the sums awarded were to be paid to the corporations severally entitled, by the issue to each of New York
County seven per cent. bonds of equal amounts. These
bonds were to be signed by the controller of the city of New
York, countersigned-by the mayor, and sealed with the seal
of the board of supervisors, and attested by the clerk of the
board.
Under this act the board of supervisors audited, and al-'
lowed to the several institutions represented in the three
cases under consideration, their several claims for taxes collected upon the national securities held ,bythem, including
in this allowance the taxes paid on certificates of indebtedness, which the corporations asserted to he secarities of the
United States exempt from taxation. But the controller,
mayor, and clerk refused to sign, countersign, seal, and attest the requisite amount of bonds for payment, insisting
that certificates of indebtedness were not exempt from taxation. A writ of mandamus waa thereupon sued out of the
Bank Tax Case, 2 Wallace, 200.

Dec. 1868.]

THE BANKS V. THE -MAYOR.
Argument in favor of the tax.

Suprerhe Court of New York, for the purpose of compelling
these officers to perform their alleged duties in this respect.
An answer was filed, and the court by its judgment "sustained the refusal. An appeal was taken to the Court of
Appeals of New York, by which the judgment of the Supreme Court was affirmed. Writs of error, under the 25th
section of. the Judiciary "Act,brought these judgments here
for reyision; the section* which gives, such writ, where s
drawn in question the validity of a statute of, or. authority
exercised under any State on the ground of their being,
repugnant to the Constitution or laws of the Uhited States,
and the decision is in favor of such validity; or where is
4rawn in question the construction of any clause of the Constitution or statute of the United States, aid the decision is
against the title, right, privilege, or exemption specially set
up, &c,;-a paragraph, this last, re-enacted by act of February 5th, 1867,t with additional words, as ' where any title,
right, privilege, or immunity is claimed under the Constitution, or any statute of or authority exercised under the
United States, and the decision is against the title, right,
privilege, or immunity specially set up, &c."
Messrs. O'Connor and O'Gorman in support of the judgment
below:
1. The judgment below is. not subject to review here.
The banks having voluntarily paid the tax, had no right to
recover it, even in a regular action .at law or'suit in equity.
There was no color of a claim ehforceable by mandamus,
except such as might have arisen -under the State act of
April 30th, 1866. The reimbursement contemplated by that
act was a favor to a certain class of claimants upon its liberality. By the voluntary payment, the banks waived any exempti6n that might have existed. When they appeared in
the State court they had no title, -right, or privilege, save
such as may have been conferred by the State act. The constriiction, impoit, and effect of the Constitution and Jaws of
I'star.at Large,.85.

t 14 Id. 88C

20

THE BANKS V. THE MAYOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the tax.

the United States in respect to taxation by States, were only
incidentally brought under consideration in the State court;
not immediately "drawn in question," within the meaning
of the Judiciary Act.
2. The exemption set up on the other side, can rest only
upon the power, of Congress "to borrow money on the
credit of the United States."
The organs, whereby the
Federal government carries on its operations are, we admit,
exempt. But a certificate or statement of a past indebtedness
-a mere chose-property in the hands of a citizen-is not
a necessary instrumentality of the government. There is
no particular virtue in the certificate. It affords ready proof
of the debt, but does not alter its character.
Is, then, issuing a certificate acknowledging a pre-existing
debt, arising fi-om the purchase of supplies or procurng of service, "borrowing money?" According to ordinary understanding it certainly is not. The term in use at the time,
which would have come nearest to a description of these
certificates, is "bills of credit."
With thesd the Convention was familiar, and prohibited their issue by the States.
It did not confer upon Congress power to issue them. The
modes of raising means to support the government are
pointed out by the Constitution. First, taces, &c. Secondly,
borrowing money. Buying on credit is not sanctioned, and
was not necessary to be sanctioned. The other means were
adequate so long as there was moriey at home or credit
abroad. If the relators cannot stand upon an implication
from the principles of the Constitution they must fail.
Messrs. Peckham and .Burrill,with whom was Rodman, contra,
submitting that the jurisdiction of this court was sufficiently
plain, and reiterating, enlarging, and enforcing the arguments made in recent previous cases denying the right of
States to tax Federal securities held by banks,* contended
that the credit of the United States, independently of the form
* Bank of Commerce v. New York City, 2 Black, 620; Bank Tax Case, 2
Wallace, 200; Van Allen v. The Assessors, 3 Id. 573.

Dec. 1868.]

TiE BANKS v. ,TRE MAYoR.
Argument against-the tax.

in which it is used,.was the-matter.meant to be protected.
and that wbatever secinrities or contracts were issued upen
that credit were exempt from State taxation.
The certificates were given to creditors having 'debts du(t;
such as the creditors were entitled to hqve paid.- Suppose
them to be p'aid, and the creditors then immediately to lend
the money to the United States on these certiflcates of indebtedness; that-would confessedly b.e a loan, and not taxable. iow the certificates ae issued simply to avoid this
roundabout operation, and to creditors desirous of tfeceiving
them. They extend the time of-payment.and bear interest.
Without them the debt would be payable immediately and
without interest. It is thus, in substance, a new contract
and a loan.
The government does not want money itself, but om,
niditiesand the services of men. It borrows only because
it is easier to use ttie medium of exchange in its transactions
than it is directly to secure commodities, services, &c., in
kind. In essence, a borrowing of money and a purchase of
commodities on credit are the same thing. JNfow, cases de.
cide that the government's contract for the loan, of money,
or for tbe services of men, is exempt. Oan any reason be
shown why a contract for the purchase of commodities with
an issue of a certificate of debt for them, should not 'be ii
the same position? The object in each case is the same, and
the obstacles to the completion of the transaction desired by
the government would be as detrimental to the public interest in one case as in the other.
In all registered loans of the government, the certificates
of stock are in thb form of certificates of indebtedness; that
Is to say, they import that the'United States are indebted to
the persons therein named in a sum therein expressed, which
is to be paid at'a specified time and place, with a, specified
rate of interest.
Some, indeed, are called hy -one name and some by
another; but the different securities are so styled for convenience only, an& not because of any difference in the essence of the obligation. They are all 'securities" of the

THE BANKS v. THE MAYOR.

[-Sup.

Ct.

Opinion of the court.

United States; or, as Mr. Justice Bouvier defines that term,*
"instruments which render certain the performance of a
contract."
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court
in all the cases.
The first question to be considered is one of jurisdiction.
It is insisted, in behalf of the defendants in error, that the
judgment of the New York Court of Appeals is not subject
to review in this court.
But is it not. plain, that under the act of the legislature
of New York the banking associations were entitled to
reimbursement by bonds of the taxes illegally collected
from them in 1863 and 1,864?
No objection was made in the State court to the process
by which the associations sought to enforce the issue of the
bonds to which they asserted their right. Mandamus to the
officers charged with the execution of the State law seems
to have been regarded on all hands as the appropriate
remedy.
But it was objected on the part of those officers, that the
particular description of obligations, of the tax on which
the associations claimed reimbursement, were. not exempt
from taxation. The associations, on the other hand, insisted
that these obligations were exempt under the Constitution
and laws of the United States. If they were so exempt, the
associations were entitled to the relief which they sought.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals denied the relief
upon the ground that certificates of indebtedness were not
entitled to exemption. Is it not clear that, in the case before
the State court, a right, privilege, or immunity was claimed
under the Constitution or a statute of the United States,
and that the decision was against the right, privilege, or
immunity claimed? And, therefore, that the jurisdiction
of this couirt to review that decision is within the express
words of the amendatory act of February 5th, 1867? There
* Law Dictionary, title ,Security."

Dec. 1868.]

THE BANKS v. THE MAYOR.
Opinion of the court.

2an be but one answer to this question. We can findno
ground for doubt on the point of jurisdiction.
The general quesition upon the merits is this:
Were the obligations of the United States, known as cer-'
tificates of indebtedness, liable to State taxation?
If this question can be affirmatively answered, the judg.
ments of the Court of Appeals must be affirmed; if not, they
must be reversed.
Evidences of the indebtedness of the United States, held
by individuals or corporations, and sometimes called stock
or stocks, but recently better known as bonds or obligations,
have uniformly been held by this court not to be liable to
taxation under State legislation.
The authority to borrow money on the credit of the, Unite'd
States is, in the enumeration of the powers expressly granted
by the Constitution, second in place, and only second'in importance to the authority to lay and collect taxes. Both are
given as means to the exercise of the functions of government under the Constitution; and both, if neither had-been
expressly couferred, would be:necessarily implied from other
powers. For no one will assert that without them the great
powers-mentioning no others-to raise and support armies,
to provide and maintain a navy, and to carry on, war, could
be exercised at all; or, if at all, with adequate efficiency.
And no one affirms that the power of the government to'
borrow, or the action .of the government in borrowing, is
subject to taxation by the States.
There are those, however, who assert that, although the
States cannot tax the exercise of the powers of the government, as for example in the conveyance of the mails, the
transportation of troops, or the borrowing of money, they
may tax the indebtedness of the government when it assum'es
the form of obligations hell by-individuals, and so becomes
in a certain sense private property.
This court, however, has constantly held otherwise.
Forty years ago, in the case of Weston v. The CMty of Charles.

24

TI-E BANKS V. THE MAYOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ton, this court, speaking through .Chief Justice Marshall,
said : *
"The American people have conferred the power of borrow.
ing money upon their government, and by making that govern.
ment supreme have shielded its action in the exercise of that
power from the action of the local governments. The grant of
the, power is incompatible with a restraining- or controlling
power, and the declaration of supremacy is a declaration that
no such restraining or controlling power shall be exercised."
And applying these principles the court proceeded to qay:
"The right to tax the contract to any extent, when made,
must operate on the power to borrow before it is exercised, and
have a sensible influence on the contract. The extent of this
influence depends on the will of a distinct government. To any
extent, however inconsiderable, it is a burden upon the operations of the government. It may be carried to an extent which
shall arrest them entirely."
And finally:
"A tax on government stock is thought by this court to be a
tax on the contract, a tax on the power to borrow money on
the credit of the United States, and consequently repugnant to
the Constitution.'
Nothing need be added to this, except that in no case
decided since have these ptopositions been retracted or
qualified. The last cases in which the power of the States
to tax the obligations of the government came directly in
question were those of the Bank of Commerce v. The City1 of
New York,t in 1862, and the Bank Tax Case,. in 1865, in
-both of which the power was denied.
An artempt was made at the bar to establish a distinction
between the bonds of the government expressed for loans
of money and the certificates of indebtedness for which the
exemption was claimed. The argument was ingenious, but
failed to convince us that such a distinction can be main*

Peters, 467.

t 2 Black, 628.

1 2 Wallace, 200.

•Dec. 1868.],

THE BANES v. THE M~tAYOR.

25.

Opinion of the c ourt.-

'tained. It may be admitted that these certificates were
issued in payment of supplies and in satisfaction of demands
of public creditors. But we fail to perceive either that there
is a solid distinction between certificates of indebtedness
issued for money borrowed and given to creditors, and cer,
tificates of indebtedness issued directly to creditors in payment of their demands; or that such certificates, issued as
a means of executing constitutional powers of the government other than of borrowing money, are not as much
beyond control and limitation' by the States through taxation, as bonds or other obligations issued for loans of money'.
The principle of exemption is, that the States cannot control the national government within the splhere of its constitutional powers--fc the.re it is sdpreme-and cannot tax
its obligations for payment of money issued- for purposes'
within that range of powers, because such taxation necessarily implies the assertion' of the right to exercise such
cont o.
The certificates of indebtedness, in the case before us, are
completely within the protection of this principle. For 1he
public history of the country and the acts of Congress show
that they. were issued to creditors for. supplies necessary to
the government in carrying on the recent war for the in-.
tegrity of the Union and the preservation of our republican
institutions. They were received instead of money at a time
when full money payment for supplies was impossible, and
according to the principles of the cases -to which we have referred, are as much beyond the taing power of the-States
as the operations themselves in fur'therance'of which they
were issued.
It results that the several judgments of the Court of Ap.

peals must be

REVERSED.

[Sup. C.

BANK V. SUPERVISORS.

Statement of the case.

NOTE.-At the sa-me time with the cases just disposed of
was decided another, from flae same court, involving the
same question of the righlt to tax as they did, but differing
fiom them in certain respects. It is here reported:
BANK V. SUPERVISORS.
I. United States notes issued under the Loan and Currency Acts of 1862
and 1863, intended to circulate as money, and actually constituting,
with the National bank notes, the ordinary circulating medium of the
country, are, moreover, obligations of the National government, and
exempt from State taxation.
2. United States notes are engagements to pay dollars; and the dollars intended are coined dollars of the United States.

THis case-brought here by the Bank of New"York-differed
from the preceding in two particulars: (1) That the board of
supervisors, which in the other cases allowed and audited the
claims of the banking associations, refused to Allow the claim
made in this case; and (2) That the exemption from State taxa-

tion claimed in this case, was of United States notes, declared
by act of Congress to be a legal tender for all debts, public and
private, except duties on imports and interest on the public
debt, while in the other cases it was of certificates of indebtedness. These United States notes, as is sufficiently known at the
present, bad become part of the currency of the country. Their
fo-im (with certain necessary variations for different denominations, place of payment, &c.) was thus:
[Act of March 3, 1863.]
THE

UNITED STATES promise to pay

alwtg g'ofars
TO THE BEARER.

Washingon,

March 10, 1863.

[Payable at the Treasury of the U. S., New York.]

L. E. CHITTENDEN,
Register of the Treasury.

F. E. SPINNER,
Treasurer of the United States.

