WHITE'S

BANK V. SMITH.

[Sup. C.

Statement of the case.

regulation of commerce, and to enact reasonable rules and
regulations prescribing the mode of their enforcement.*
Contracts for shipbuilding are held not to be maritime
contracts, and, of course, they fall within the same category,
but in all cases where a maritime lien arises, the original
jurisdiction to enforce the same by a proceeding in ren is
exclusive in the District Courts of the United States, as provided in the ninth section of the Judiciary Act.t
Respective decrees REVERSED, and the several causes remanded, with instructions to
DISMIss

THE RESPECTIVE LIBELS.

WHITE'S BANK V. SMITIL
1. Under the act of Congress of July 29th, 1850, enacting"That no bill of sale, mortgage, hypothecation, or conveyance of any
vessel, or part of any vessel, of the United States, shall be valid against
any person other than the grantor or mortgagor, his heirs and devisees,
and persons having actual notice thereof, unless such bill of sale, mortgage, hypothecation, or conveyance, be recorded in the office of the
collector of the customs where such vessel is regi.,tered or enrolled,"
a recording of a mortgage in the office of the collector of the home port
of the vessel has the effect, by itsown force and irrespective of any formalities required by a State statute to give effect to chattel mortgages,
to give the mortgagee a preference over a subsequent purchaser or mortgagee.
2. The home port of the vessel is the port in the office of whose collector
the bill of sale, mortgage, &c., should be recorded; not the port of last
registry or enrolment when not such home port.
3. The act is constitutional.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Norfhern District of
New York.
The case was this:
An act of Congress, "providing for the recording of con.
* The General Smith, 4 Wheaton, 438; The St. Lawrence, 1 Black, 529

Ferry Company v.Beers, 20 Howard, 402.

.Dec. 18681] .

WHITE'S BANK V. SMITH.

...647

Statement of the case:

veyances of vessels,and for other purposes," and passed July
29th, 1850,* thus enacts:
"No bill of sale, mortgage, hypothecation, or conveyance of
any vessel, or pirt of,any vessel of the United States, shall be
valid against any person other than the grantor br mortgagor,
his heirs and devisees, and persons having actual notice thereof,
unless such bill of sale, mortgage, hypothecation, or conveyance,
be recorded in the office of the collector of customs where such vessel
is registered or enrolled."

And a-statute of the State of New York thus enacts:
"Every mortgage of chattels which shall not be accompanied.
&c., shall be'absolutely void as against the creditors of the mortgagor, and as against .subsequent purchasers and mortgagees in
good faith, unlpss the mortgage, or a true copy thereof, shall be
filed as directed in the succeeding section of this act."
The "succeeding section" above referred to directs where
the mortgage shall be fileld. And a third section proceeds:
"Everymortgage filed in pursuance of this act, shall cease to
be valid as against the creditors of the person making the same,
or against subsequent mortgagees in good faith,after the expiration
of one year from the filing thereof, unless within, '&c., a true
copy of such mortgage shall be again filed in the office qf the
clerk or register aforesaid of the town-or city where the mortgagot
shall then reside."
I With these two acts, one of the United States and the
other'of the State of New York, in forc, one Hoyt, then a
resident of Buffalo, Erie County, New York, executed, ol
the 22d May, 1863, a mortgage to White's Bank, of Buffalo, upon the schooner Emmett, of which he was owner.
This mortgage was recorded, on the 12th of the June following, in thecollector's office at Buffalo, where the Emmett was duly
enrolled, and where, asjuRt said, -Hoyt, her owner, resided. The
-mortgage was filed, also, in the office of the clerk of the
county of Erie, on the 5th June, 1863, according to the re.
9 Stat. at Large, 440.

WjlulE's BANK V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

quirement of the above-quoted lay7.of New York, but it was
not refiled at the ,end of a year.
Subsequently to the date of this mortgage of Hoyt to
White's Bank, the vessel became the property of one Zahn,
residing at Sandusky, Ohio; and on the 2d June, 1865, he
mo rtgaged her to one Smith. The mortgage to Smith was
recorded in ,the --collector's office, at the port of Sandusky,
Ohio, on the 17th of June, 1865, where the Emmett was
duly enrolled, and at which place, as above stated, the then
owner, Zahn, resided. The vessel baving been sold subsequently to the date of both the mortgages, under a paramount lien for seamen's wages, and a remnant of the proceqds of sale, after payment of such wages, remaining, but
being insufficient to pay either mortgage, the question was,
to which of the mortgages it should be applied,-to the
first mortgage, that of the bank? or to the subsequent one,
Smith's? Smith set up that the lien of the mortgage to
White's Bank was lost on account of the omission to refile it
in the clerk'q office of Erie County at the end of the year,
and this position it was which raised the material question
in the case; the question, namely, whether or not the recording of the mortgage, in the collector's office at Buffalo
had the effect, by its own force, and irrespective of the filing in
the clerk's office, to give a preference to it over any subsequent
purchaser or mortgagee?
The court below decreed that the fund should be appropriated to Smith's mortgage; and White's Bank appealed.
Mr. Haddock, for the appellant, contended that the act of
the legislature of New.York, so far as it required chattel
mortgages upon vessels to be recorded, was a regulation of
commerce, and therefore repugnant to that clause of the
Federal Constitution which provides that Gongress shall have
power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and
among the several States. In Steamship Compavny v. Portwardens,* where a statute of Louisiana, imposing a tax upon
* 6 Wallace, 81.

Dec: 18,68j

'Wifim's BA

.v.- 81.ITH.

"

649""

Arjgbipient for the fdppellee.

vessels; was 'declared repugnant to 'the Constitution of-the;
UnitedStates, the court says: "The power to regulate'com.
merce was given to Congress i4 comprehensive terms. It
was thus given With the obviouq intent to, place' that 'com..
merce beyond interruption or embarrassment, arising fr6m,
the conflicting or hostile State regulations." .So, here the:
subject-matter, having l een acted upon by C6ngre"s was
placed beyond the reach, or.control of the States.
.M1r. 1oqers, -contra:,
The act of Congress did not supersede thd necessity.of a
compliance with the statute of iNew York. It is not repugnant to, nor in any manner in conflict with that law. There
.is no difficulty in complying with -both. ' To regulate commerce was not the purpose of the State act; aid if it does
affect commet'ce, it does so only by acting incidentally on one
bf its instruments. But if the two acts are inconsistelt,
'which should give way?
The act of Congress is, in some sort, a recording 'or registry act, having in view, apparently, the protection of the
interests of bond fide purchasers, as well as those of the
United States, in the enforcement of its revenfie and navigation laws. Ii so far as it thus assumes to regulate the
transfer 6f the title of paities in such property, is. the act
constitutional-? Can Congress enter the domain of property
aud' assum6 in all cases .to regulate the transfers thereof?
'We submit that it cannot. The clause of the Cdnstitution
which gives to Congress power to "regulate commerce,"
contains nothing in terms giving to that body the power to
enter the domain of private property, and to enact what shall
be, and what shall hot be, a valid transfer thereof. N'or does
any such power arise from implication from the power actnally given.' The rights of property'as well as of person are
carefully left to the several States,' which, according to the.
theory of the Constitution, were Ietter fitted 'to regulate
them properly than any general government cguld possibly
be. An owner who obtains the enrolment of his vessel be-,
cause he caniot other4ise engage her ih'commerce, cannot

WHITE'S BANK V SMITI.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

be deemed thereby to resign his right to sell or dispose of
her, by the observance of such formalities as the laws of his
State alone prescribe.
If Congrcss have power- to enact this registry law for the
protection of creditors, purchasers, &c., simply because a ship
is a vehicle of commerce, they have also the power to enact
a similar law in relation to all locomotives, cars, wagons,
sleighs, and other vehicles used in the carrying on of connerce between the States or with foreign nations; and in
fict to regulate the transfer of title to all property which is
the subject of commerce.
[A'question was also made as to whether the record of the
vessel under the act of Congress should be in the vessel's
home port, or, as was decided by the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, in _Poller v. Irish,* and afterwards by the Supreme
Court of;Maine, in Chadwick v. Bake;i,t in the port of the last
registry or enrolment, though not the home port?]
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The act of Congress, July 29, 1850, on this subject, of the
present. case, is as follows:
"That no bill of sale, mortgage, hypothecation, or conveyance
of any vessel, or part of any vessel of the United States, shall be
valid against any person other than the grantor or mortgagor,
his heirs and devisees, and persons having actual notice thereof,
unless such bill of sale, mortgage, hypothecation, or conveyance,
be recorded in the office of the collector of customs, where such
vessel is registered or enrolled."
The next section provides for recording these bills of sale,
&c., and also certificates of discharge and cancellation in a
proper book. No provision was made for any authentication of these instruments preparatory to their being r~corded.
They were received by the collector from the parties delivering thiem, and were recorded, with no proof of their verity,
except from the execution of the same, as appeared on their
face; and this, both as it respects the bills of sale, mortgages,
* 10 Gray, 416.

'-

54 Maine, 9.

'Dec. 1868.]

WHITE'S BANK V. SMITH.
Opinion of the court.

&c., and' the discharge and cancellation of the same. And
the law thus stood for some fifteen &ears. On MArc 3,1865,
it was enacted that " no bill of sale, mortgage, hypothecation,
conveyance, or discharge of mortgage, or other incumbrance
of any vesgel, shall be recorded, unless the same is duly -acknowledged before a notary public, or other officer authorized to take acknowledgment of deeds."
Previous to, this act of 1850, providing for the recording
of bills of sale, mortgages, &c., of vessels, they were rdquired
to be filed, by the laws of many of the States, in the clerk's
office, or some place of public deposit in the town or city
where the vendor or mortgagor resided, in order to protect
the interest of the vendee or mortgagee against subsequent
bonffide purchasers or mortgagees. And this practice continued in many places after the passage of the act of 1850,
for abundant 6aution, on account of a doubt as to the effect
that would'or might be given to it as a recording act, from
the very imperfect provisions of the law. There can be no
doubt, however, but that the system of recording these instruments in the collector's office, at the home port of the
vessel, furnishes a much readier opportunity to persons dealing in this species of property, to obtain a knowledge of the
condition of the title, than by the former mode under the
State law. We say the home port, because it is quite apparent from the language of the act, "be recorded in the
office of the collector of customs, where such vessel is registered or enrolled," means the permanent registry or enrolment, which is at the port, "at or nearest to which the owner.
if there be but one, or if more than one, the husband or acting and managing owner of said ship or vessel usually resides. And the name of the said ship or vessel, and the
port to "which she shall so belong, shall be painted on her
stern, on a black ground, in white letters, of not less than
three inches in length," and, if found without such name and
the name of the port, the owner is subject to a penalty of
fifty dollars.*
Act 31st December, 1792,

3.

WHITE'S BAIK

V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The same act provides for a temporary registry, when the
owner acquires her in a different district from that in which
he resides; 'but this is to enable him to bring the vessel
within the home district or port, where she can obtain her
permanent registry. The character of this temporary registry is expressed on the face of it, and is delivered up to'the
collector on the issuing of the permanent registry, whose
duty it is to return it to the colledt6r that granted it.*
So a registered vessel may be enrolled, or an enrolled
vessel registered, on the master giving up to the collector
the registry or enrolment, as the case may be; and if such
vessel shall be in any other district than the one to which
she belongs, the. collector of such district, upqn the master
taking an oath that, according to his best knowledge and belief, the property remains as expressed in a registry or enrolment proposed to be given up, and on giving the bond
required, shll make the exchanges above mentioned; but
the collector to whom the registry or enrolment is given
up, shall transmit the same to the Register of the Treasury,
and the' registry or enrolment granted in lieu thereof, shall,
within ten days after the arrival of such vessel within the
district to which she belongs, be delivered to the collector
of said district, and be by him! cancelled.t
This exchande of registry or enrolment may occur in any
part of a voyage or voyages, and the temporary registry or
enrolment continues till the vessel, in the regular course of
her employment, arrives at the port to which she belongs,
where she may again obtain a tenewal of her permanent
documentary title. As we have said, we think it apparent
that the collector's office-in the district in which this temporary registry or enrolment is made,.is not the office contemplated by the act of 1850. The temporary papers are made
in the office where the vessel happens to be at the time of
the sale or exchange of the documentary title, and continues
only till her arrival at the port to which she belongs. Her
name, and the name of her home port, remains painted on
Ac~t 31st December, 1792,

11.

-f 1 Stat. af Large, 288,

-Dec.-1868J]

WzTh'& BANK

V,' SMITH.

Opinion of the court.

her stern, notwithstanding this Itemporary document, and
satisfies the' requirement of the act in that respect, and both
continue until a new liome port is acquired by a change of
ownership, requiring a permanent registry or enrolment on
account of the different'residence of the owners, when the
name of that port is substituted. And, confining the recbrd
to the hpme port, there is great propriety and convenience
in requiring bills of sale, mortgages, &c., of the i-tole, or
parts of a vessel, to be made matters of record in this office,
as in the registries there are the names of all the owners
under oath, together with their residences; and since the act
of 1850, containing also the part or proportion of such vessel
belonging to each owner (§ 5). And in this same section it
is provided that, "'in all bills of sale of vessels registered or
enrolled, shall be set forth the part of the vessel owned by
each ,person selling, and the part conveyed to each person
purchasing." And in this connection we may also mention,
that in case.of the sale of a vessel, which can only be to a
citizen or citizens of the- United States, and a new perma0nent registry becomes neces.ary, the former certificate of
registry must be 'delivered to the collector to wh6m application is' made for the new registry j to be transmitted by him
to the Register of the Treasuryto be cancelled; and in every
siuch sale'or transfer of a vessel, there shall be some instrument-in writing in the nature of a bill of sale, Which shall
recite at length the certificate of the former registity, otherwise the ship or vessel shall be incapable of being registered
anew.* And as this bill of §ale is recorded in the collector's
office in which the new permanent registry is made, it affords information to any person examining it as tothe former
home port and collector's onice in.which the vessel had been
previously registered, and where examination can be made
for any bill of sale, mortgage, or other incumbrance, upon.
or Egainst the vessel.
It will be seen, thetefore, as the law now stands, there
can be very little difficulty on the part of 'a purchaser or
* 1 Stat. at Large, 294, j 14.

WHrTE's BANK

V.

SMITI.

[Sup., OC.

Opinion of the court.

mortgagee in ascertaining the true condition of the title of
a vessel, as it respects written evidences of the same, or of
incumbrances thereon, from an examination of the records
of the collector's office at the several home ports of the vessel, as the records of the last home port refers to the preceding one, the last bill of sale incorporating into it a copy of
the previous certificate of registry. In this respect, the system of recording 4n the collector's office possesses very great
advantages- over the filing of these instruments in the clerks'
offices where the vendor or mortgagor happened to reside at
the time, as no means exist, under this practice, by which
the subsequent purchaser or mortgagee, by any diligence,
could obtain a knowledge of the actual condition of the title.
We are aware that ill the case of Potterv. Irish,* the court
came to the conclusion, upon an examination of the acts on
this subject, that bills of sale, mortgages, &e., under the act
of 1850, in order to protect the title of the purchaser or
mortgagee, should be recorded in the office of the collector
of customs at the port of the last registry or enrolment,
though not the home port of the vessel. And the court in
the case of Chadwick v. Baker,t followed this decision. Our
respect fbr the couirts rendering these decisions has led us
to cxami'ne the several statutes upon which this question depends with more than usual care, and after the best consideration we have been able to give, we are obliged to differ with
theim. We think the better construction of these statutes
leads to the conclusion that the home port was the one in the
contemplation of Congress at which these instruments were
to be recorded. and is the more appropriate one in furtheranee of the object ibr which the act was pas;,ed.
The temporary registry or enrolment is at a collector's
offlce in a district where the owners do not reside, an( i,
made withoot any reference to such residence. It is nma,h
at any collectors office, and at any port within the limits of
the United States where the vessel may happen to be at the
time this temporary document is registered.
* 10OGray, 416.

t 54 Maine, 9.

Ddc. 1868.]

"WRIT,'S:BANK V. SMITH.

655

Opinion of the court.

While the home port pay be at the city of New.York, the
temporary registry or enrolment may be made at New Orleans
or San Francisco, or Portland, in Oregon, where it-would be
as inconvenient foi the vendee or mortgagee to make a record
of the bill of sale or mortgage as it would be for a person
dealing in this species of propei'ty to acquire any notice of
such record; whereas a record at the h'ome port is within the
district where the owners reside, and where negotiations or
dealings in respect to this species of property 'Would naturally be conducted.
Some .question is made as to the power of Congress over
the title and pr6perty of vessels of the United States to such
an extent as to enable it to pass a recording act.
But, after the regulation of this species of prop'rty by
the several acts of Congress to which we have ref'urr,. and
in respect to which there( has never been a questoon there
can be very little hesitation in conceding the power to protect the rights of subsequent boR fide purchasers and mortgagees therein.
. Ships or vessels of' the United States are the creations
of the legislation of Congress. None can be denominated
such, or be entitled to the benefits or privileges thereof, except those registered or enrolled according to the act of September 1, 1789; and those which, after the last day of March,
1798, shall be registered or enrolled in pursuance of the act
of 81st December, 1792, *and must be wholly owned by a
citizen,'or citizens ofthe United States, and to be commanded by a citizen of the same.*
Afid none can be registered or enrolled unless built within
the United- States before or after the 4th of July, 1776, aid
belonging wholly to a* citizen, or citizens, of the United
States, or; not built within said States, but on the 16th of
May,.'1789, belonging, and thence continuing to belong, to a
citizen or citizens thereof; or ships or vessels captured from
the enemy, in war, by a citizen, and lawfully condemned as
prize, or adjudged to be forfeited for a breach of the laws of
* 1 Stat. at Large, 287.

THE NICHOLS.

[Stip. Ct

Syllabus.

the United States, and being wholly owned by h. citizen or
cittzens thereof.*Ships or vessels hpt brought withi' these provisions of the
acts 6f Congress, and not entitled to the benefits and privileges thereunfo belonging, are ,of no more value as AmericaL vessels than the wood and iron out of which they are
constructed. Their substantial if not 'entire value consists
in their right to the character of national vessels, and to
have the protection of the national flag floating at their
mast's head.
Congress having created,.as it'were, this species of propC
erty, and conferred upon it its chief value under the power
given in the Constitution to regulate commerce, we perceive
no reason for entertaining any serious doubt but that this
power may be extended to the secnrity.and protection of the
rights and title of all persons dealing therein. Tht judicial
mind seems t? have generally taken this direction.t
DECREE REVERSED, and a
DECREE ENTERED VOR THE APPELLANT.

THE NICHOLS.
1. Sailing ships are '"meeting end on,", within the meaning of the eleventh
article of the act of Congress of April 29, 1864, fixing " Rules and Regulations for Preventing .ollisiois on the "Water," when they are approaching each other from opposite directions, or on such parallel lines
as involve risk of collision on aocounp of their proximity, fnd when the
vessels -have advanced so near to each other that the necessity for precautign to prevent such a .disaster begins; a condition which always depeids, to a certain'extent, upon the state of the navigation, and the circuinstances of the occasion.
2. The expression, "meeting nearly bnd on," in the same article, inclqdeg
Icases where'two sailing ghips are approaching from nearly opposite
di1 Stat. at Large, 2, 288.
f The MArtha Washirigton, 25 Law Reporter, 22; Fontaine v. Beers, 19
Alabama, 722; Mitchell v. Steelman, 8 California, 363; Shaw v. McCandless,
36 Mississippi, 296.

