THOMSON v. DEAN.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

allowance, or compensation." This act was noticed a:d
commented on in -foyt v. Un2ited States.* The court there
observe, that it cuts up by the roots these, claims of public
officers for extra compensation on the ground of extra services; that there is no discretion left in any officer or tril,unal to make allowance, unless it is authorized by some
law of Congress. This construction of the acts of 1822 and
1839 was affirmed in the case of Converse v. United Slates.f
In that case a compensation was allowed for an extra service
rendered by the collector, but it was allowed, for the reason
that the service was rendered in pursuance of existing laws,
and the appropriation for a compensation was made by law.
The principle settled in that case is decisive against the allowance in the present one.
JUDGMENT REVERSED.

THOMSON V. DEAN.
1. The rule laid down in Forgay v. Conrad (6 Howard, 204), as to what constitutes a final decree for the piurposo of an appeal, recognized as the
true rule on the subject.
2. Hence, where a bill related to the ownership and transfer of certain stock,
a decree was held to be final when it decided the right to the property
in contest, directed it to be delivered by the defendant to the complainant by tr.sfer, and entitled the complainant to have the decree carried
immediately into execution ; leaving only to be adjusted accounts between the parties in pursuance of the decree settling the question cf
ownership.

THIs was a motion to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit
Court-for West Tennessee, on the ground that the decree
from which it was taken was not final.
The record showed that the controversy related to the
ownership and transfer of two hundred and four shares of
the stock of the Memphis Gaslight Company, and to the
rights of the parties under contracts relating to the purchase,
sale, and transfer of the stock.
*10 Howard, 141.

t- 21 Id. 478.

Dec. 1868.]

THOMSON V. DEAN.
Argument for dismissal.

The decree directed that Dean, the defendalit below and
appellant here, transfer forthwith upon the books of the
company one hundred and ninety-four shares of the stock
to one of the plaintiffs below, who are appellees here, and
ten shares to another. It directed further, that account bc,
taken-and stated as to the amount paid and to be paid for
the stock, and as to dividends accrued, and to be credited
under the contracts between the parties. This decree was
rendered on the 12th of March, 1868, and appeal was allowed
on the same day. Bond was given on the 23d.
Mr. Phillips, in support of the motion:
It is, perhaps, not quite easy to reconcile all the decisions
of this court on the question as.to what is a "final decree"
upon which an appeal will lie.
In Forgay v. Conrad,* Taney, 0. J., delivering the opinion,
says:
"Where the decree decides the right to the property in contest
and directs it to be delivered up, or directs it to be sold, and the
complainant is entitled to have it carriedinto immediate execution,
the decree must be regarded as final to that extent, although it
may be necessary by a further decree to adjust the account between
the parties."
The principle thus laid down indicates that there may be
more than one "final decree" in a cause. But later decisions seem not to sustain what is said in that case.
In Beebe v. Russett the case of Forgay is referred to with
the evident intent that it should not be regarded as establishing a, principle. "The fact is," say the court, "that the
order of reference to the master was peculiar, making it
doubtful if it could in any way qualify the antecedent decree."
So far from sustaining the piinciple announced in Forgay's case, the court reiterates the decision in the case of The
Palmyra,$ where restitution, with costs and damages, had
* 6 Howard, 204.

t- 19 Id. 284.

1 10 Wrheaton, 502.

THOMSON V. DEAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

been decreed, but the damages had not been assessed. This
was held on appeal not to be a final decree. The ground of
the holding was, that an appeal would lie on the decree
awarding damages, and that the cause could not be divided so
as to bring up distinct parts of it.
Again, it was decided that the term "final decree" is to
be construed as it was understood in England and this
country at the date when Congress acted upon the subject,
and that at the date named, a decree was regarded as interlocutory whenever an inquiry as to matter of law or fact
is directed preparatory to a final decision; while it is true
that a decree may be final, although iLtdirects a reference to
the master, provided all the consequential directions depending on the master's report are contained in the decree,
so that no further decree will be necessary to give the parties

the full benefit of the previous decision of the court.
The latest case is Ilumiston v. Stainthorp.* The bill here
was for infringement of a patent; the decree, a perrnanent injunction, with reference to the master to take an account of
profits. The cases were fully discussed at the bar. But the
court dismissed the appeal "according to a long and wellsettled class of cases," which are referred to in a note.
No counsel appeared against the motion.
The CHEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The question is whether the decree in this case was final
for the purpose of appeal?
The eighth rule of the court, prescribing the practice of
the United States courts in equity, directs that "if the decree
be for the'performance of any specific act, it shall prescribe
the time within which the act shall be done, of-which the
defendant is bound to take notice," and that, "on affidavit
by the plaintiff of non-performance within the prescribed
time, the clerk shall issue a writ of attachment against the
delinquent party, from which he shall not be discharged
2 Wallace, 106.

Dec. 1868.]

THomsoN v. DEAN.
Opinion of the court.

unless on full compliance, or by special order enlarging the
time."
In th.is case the decree directs the performance of a specific act, and requires that it be done forthwith. The eiect
of the act when done is to invest the transferees with all the
rights of ownership. It changes the property in the stock
as absolutely and as completely as could be done by execution on a decree for sale. It looks to no future modification or change of the dectze. No such change or modification was possible after the -term, except on rehearing or
by bill of review in the Circuit Court, or through appeal in
this court.
So far as the court below was concerned, the decree in the
case determined the principal matter in controversy between.
the.parties. And since the decree could not be changed except through a new and distinct proceeding, it determined
that matter finally.
Why, then, must it not be regarded-as a final decree within
the meaning of the acts of Congress providing for appeals?
'The eighth rule of practice to which we have referred certainly regards such a decree as that now ufider consideration
as final in respect to the act to be performed.
But it is insisted that this court has held that no decree
which does not completely dispose of the whole cause is final,
and that this decree, though disposing completely of the controversy as to the ownership of the stock, is not final, because
it directs certain accounts to be taken.
It is true that this court has always desired that appeals
ce taken only from decrees which are not only final but
complete; and has, upon one occasion, at least, directed the
attention of the Circuit Courts to the expediency and iniportance of refraining from making final decrees on any part
of a cause, however important, until prepared to dispose of
it completely. Such a course would undoubtedly save much
inconvenience, both to the Circuit Courts and this court, and
diminish largely the expense of litigation to suitors.
And it may be true, that under thje influence of these considerations the degree of finality essential to the right of ap.

346

THo.isoN v. DEAN.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

peal has been sometimes pushed quite to the limit of construction. But we think that the current of decisions fully
sustains the rule laid down by the late Chief Justice in the
case of Forgay v. Conrad, and which we again declare in his
own language: "When the decree decides the right to the
property in contest, and directs it to be delivered up by the
defendant to the complainant, or directs it to be sold, or
directs the defendant to pay a certain sum of money to the
complainant, and the complainant is entitled to have such
decree carried immediately into execution, the decree must
be regarded as a final one to that extent, and authorizes an
appeal to this court, although so much of the bill is retained
in the Circuit Court as is necessary for the purpose of adjusting by further decree the accounts between the parties
pursuant to the decree passed."
The reasoning in the case just cited fully vindicates this
rule, in our judgment, as a sound construction of the acts of
Congress relating to appeals, and is sustained by the authority of several decisions.*
And it is quite clear that the appeal under consideration
is within this rule. The decree for which it was taken de3ided the right to the property in contest, directed it to be
delivered by defendant to complainant by transfer, entitled
the complainant to have the decree carried immediately into
execution, leaving only to be adjusted accounts between the
parties in pursuance of the decree settling the question of
ownership.
It follows that the motion to dismiss must be
DENIED.

* Ray v. Law, 3 Cranch, 179; Whiting v. Bank United States, 13 Peters,
6: Michoud v. Girod, 4 Howard, 505. See also Orchard v. Hughes, I Wallace, 657; Milwaukie and Minnesota Railroad Co. v. Soutter, 2 Id. 440;
Withenbury v. United States, 5 Id. 821.

