NICHOLS V. UNITED STATES.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Illinois, and the corporation is liable to suit withir, the narrowest construction of the Constitution.
But it was argued that counties in Illinois, by the law of
their organization, were exempted from suit elsewhere than
in the Circuit Courts of the county. And this seems to be
the construction given to the statutes concerning counties
by the Supreme Court of Illinois. But that court has never
decided that a county in Illinois is exempted from liability
to suit in National courts. It is unnecessary, therefore, to
consider what would be the effect of such a decision. It is
enough for this case that we find the board of supervisors
to be a corporation authorized to contract for the county.
The power to contract with citizens of other States implies
liability to suit by citizens of other States, and no statute
limitation of suability can defeat a jurisdiction given by the
Constitution. We cannot doubt the constitutional right of
the defendant in error to bring suit in the Circuit Court of
the United States upon the obligations of the County of
Mercer against the plaintiff in error. And we find no error
in the judgment of that court. It must, therefore, be
AFFIRMED.

NICHOLS V. UNITED

STATES.

1. Under the act of Congress of February 26, 1845, relative to the recovery
of duties paid under protest, a written protest, signed by the party, with
a statement of the definite grounds of objection to the duties demanded
and paid, is a condition precedent to a right to sue in any court for their
recovery.2. Cases arising under the Revenue Laws, are not within the jurisdiction of
the Court of Claims.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims.

An act of Congress of February 26, 1845,* construing a
former act relative to duties paid under protest, says:
"Nor shall any action be maintained against any collector, to
6 Stat. at Large, 727.

Dec. 186$.]

'NICHOLs V. UNITED STATES.
'Statement of the case.

recover the amount of duties so paid under protest, unless the
.said protest was made in writing and signed by the elaimant,-at.or
before the pay~nent of said duties, getting forth distinctly and
specifically the';groiinds of objection to the payment thereof."
'In this state,of the statute law, Nichols &.Co., merchants
of New York, importedfrom dbroad to that city, in 1847-51,
certain casks of liquor. Duties were imposed at the,customhousge at New York, on the quantity inioiced;, that is to
say, on the amounts which the casks contained xhen they
were shipped. A p6rtion of. the liquors, howeei, leaked
out during the voyage, and b.eing thus lost, was n6er imported at all, in fact, into the United States. Notwithstanding this circumstance, Nichols & Co; paid the auties, as im-,
posed; that is to, say, duities on the amount as invpiced,.
making no protest in the matter. -They now, July, 1855, by
petition, setting forth -their case, including the fact that they
had "omitted to 'protest," brought suit against the United
States for the ove'-payinent, in the Court of Claims; a court'
which, by th6 acts of Congress establishing it, has power to
hear and determine "all claims founded upon any law of
Congress, or upon any regulation of an executive. departmient, or upon any contract, express or- implied, with. the
government of the United States."
The petition asserted the law .as settled by this court iin
Lawrence v. Caswell,* to be, that duty was chargeable 'only.
on the value of the liquors imported into the United States,
and that the quantity lost by. leakage, on the voyage of ima
portation, was not subject t6 any'duty. A view in conformity, as they alleged, with a Treasury circular of January,80,
1847; directing that, "if the qtantity of any article falls short
of the amount gien in the invoice, .... an abatement of
the duties to the-',eitent of the deficiency will be inade."t
As a reason for not presening' the claim to the Treaury

lDepartment,. the' petitioners stated that they omitted to protest.
The United, States demurred 'to the, petition, and the de*13. Howard, 488.

"f 1 :Mayo, 391.

NiICHOLS V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument for the importers.

murrer being sustained, the petition was dismissed.
importers now appealed.

The

Mr. William Allen Butler, for the appellants,contended, that
the case was within the jurisdictionof the Court of Claims,
fbr the claim was founded upon1st. A law of the United States, to wit, the Tariff Act,
in operation at the time of the importations; an act which
had regulated the assessment of duties on the liquors;
upon2d. A regulation of an executive department, to wit, the
Treasury; which sort of regulation the circular of January
30, 1847, was; a regulation as to deficiencies; and upon3d. An implied contract of the United States, springing
from the obligation of the government to refuhid, irrespetive of protests, the duties, if illegally exacted.
Viewed in the light in which the claim was placed by the
act creating the Court of Claims, and by the decision in
Lawrence v. Caswell, it was to be judged according to the
rules of law applicable to cases where a party sues to recover money paid to another, in order to obtain possession
of his goods from the latter, who has withheld them upon
an illegal demand, colore officii. In such cases the law forces
upon the wrongdoer the promise, in invitum, to pay the
money to the party entitled to it. The Court of Claims
has decided that this class of cases come within the provisions of the acts conferring jurisdiction upon the court.*
Neither was a written protest, made at the time before
the collector, a pre-requisite to maintain suit here. There
was no law requiring importers, overcharged by collectors
of customs, to pursue the remedy authorized by the act of
February 26, 1845, viz.: payment of the. duties under protest, and suit against the collector. They might, if they so
elected, apply to Congress, by petition, for an act directing
the return of the duties. So they might come into this
court and ask its relief. It was only where the importer
Schlesinger's Case, 1 Nott & Huntingdon, 16, 17.

Dec. 1868.]

D. UNITED STATES.
NICoLS
.]
Opinion of the court.

exercised his right of action against the collector, that the
absence of protest in writing could affect the question of the
legality of the exaction. If the exaction was wrongful, ,and
an obligation existed on the part of the' government, the
principal receiving money, to repay it, that obligation, when
sought to be enforced directly against the government, could
not be impaired by a condition made by it, for mere security
perhaps, respecting the mode of enforcing a liability for the
same obligation against its agents.

Mr. Evarts, Attorney-General, and Mr. Talbot, contra:
This appeal assumes as true that, at common law, the
appellaut has, against the United States, a right of action to
recover the moneys claimed in his petition, which right was
made available by the statutes establishing the Court of
Claims, under no limitations save those prescribed for proceedings in that court. The assumption is false. The'com-'
mon law implies no contract on the part of the government to
repay money erroneously collected into the public treasury
for public dues. This point sustained, the appeal fails. But
further:
1. No new liability on the part' of the government, in this
respect, has been created by the statutes establishing or relating to the Court of Claims. This appears by the statutes
themselves.
2. What the revenue statutes define to be a compulsory,
payment in a case like this, and that alone, is such. Everything else is voluntary.
3. At common law thd payment, alleged by the petition is
not compulsory.*
Mr. Justice DAVIS cleiyeredl the opinion of the court.
Two questions arise iii this case:
1st. Was there any liability on the part of the government
to refund these duties prior to the act establishing the Court
of Claims ?
* Bend v. Hoyt,.13 Peters, 268.

NICHOLS V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. CL,

Opinion of the court.

2d. If not, has that act fixed any few liability on the government?
The immunity of the United States from suit is one of the
main elements to be considered in determining the merits
of this controversy. Every government has an inherent
right to protect itself against suits, and if, in the liberality
of legislation, they are permitted, it is only on such terms
and conditions as are prescribed -by statute. The principle
is fundamental, applies to every sovereign power, and but
for the protection which it affords, the government would be
unable to perform the various daties for which it was created.
It would be impossible for it to collect revenue for its support, without infinite embarrassments and delays, if it was
subject to civil processes the same as a private person.
It is not important for the purposes of this suit, to notice
any of the acts of Congress on the subject of the payment of
duties on imports, anterior to the act of February 26, 1845.*
This act altered the rule previously in force, and required
the party of whom duties were claimed, and who denied the
right~to claim them, to protest in writing, with a specific
statement of the grounds of objection.
Through this law Congress said to the importing merchant,
you must pay the duties assessed against you; but, as you,
say, they are illegally assessed, if you file a written protest
stating' wherein the illegality consists, you can test the question of pour liability to pay, in a suit against the collector,
to be tried in due course of law, and, if the courts decide in
your favor, the treasury will repay you; but in no other way
will the government be responsible to refund.
The written protest, signed by the party, with the definite
grounds of objection, were conditions precedent to the right
to sue, and if omitted, all right of action was gone. These
conditions were necessary for the protection of the government, as they inforined the officers charged with the collection of the revenue from imports, of the merchant's reasons
for claiming exemption, and enabled the Treasury Depart* 5 Statutes at Large, 727.

Dec. 1868.]

NICHOLS V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

ment to judge of their soundness, and to decide on the risk
of taking the duties in the face of the objections. There
was no hardship. in the case, because the law was notice
equp.lly to the collector and importer, and was a rule to guidp
their conduct, in case differences should arise in relation to
the laws for*the imposition of duties: The allowing a suit
at all, was an act of beneficence on the part of the government. As it had confided to the Secretary of the Treasury
the power of deciding in the first'instance on the amount of
duties demandable on any specific importation, so it could

have made him the final arbiter in all disputes concerning'
the same. After the passage of the law of 1845, the dhties
in controversy were paid.
The appellants say they were illegally exacted, because it
was decided by this court, in Lawrence v. Gaswell,* that the
duties ought tobe charged only upon the quantity of liquors
actually imported, and not on the contents stated in the invoices; but the Chief Justice took occasion to observe in deciding that case, "that where no protest was made the duties
are not illegally exacted in the legal sense of the term. If
the party acquiesces, and does not by his protest appeal to
the judicial tribunals, the duty paid is not illegally exacted,
but is paid in obedience to the decision of the tribunal (the
Secretary of the Treasury) to which the law had confided
the power of deciding the question." In view of this decision and the plain requirements of the law, how can Nicholl
.& Co. complain?
They knew by proceeding in a certain
way they could resort to the legal tribunals, and yet for a
series of years they imported liquors, and paid the duties demanded without objection. They had an equal right, with
the Secretary of the Treasury, to construe the law under
which the duties were claimed, and as they chose not to apIpeal to the courts, they adopted the construction which the
secretary put on the law, and are concluded by his decision.
If"
a party who did not adopt that construction placed himself in a way to contest it,. and got a decision that it was
" 13 Howard, 488.

NICHOLS V.

UNITED STATES

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

erroneous, such decision cannot enure to the benefit of
Nicholl & Co., who by their conduct notified the government,
so far as they were concerned, they acquiesced in the secretary's construction of the law. It may be ,their misfortune
that they did not appeal from the secretary's decision; but
,it is a misfortune that'occurs to any party, in a lawsuit, who
refuses to appeal from the decision of an inferior court, and
afterwards finds, by means of another's litigation, that if he
had appealed the decision would have been reversed.
If the duties demanded of Nicholl & Co. had been paid
under protest, their payment, in the sense of the law, would
have beel, compulsory, but as they were paid without protest it was a voluntary payment, dbubtlessimade and received
in mutual mistake of the law; but in such a case, as was decided in Elliott v. Swartwout,* no action will lie to recover
back the money. And so this court has'repeatedly held.t
It is clear, therefore, that the appellants are without
remedy, unless a new liability has been imposed on the government by the act creating the Court of Claims.
Does this act confer on the appellants any further or different rights than they had prior to its passage-? If not,
there is an end to this suit.
The Court of Claims has power to hear and determine all
claims founded upon any law of Congress, or upon any regulation of an executive department, or upon any contract, express or implied, with the government of the United States.
Conceding, that this jurisdiction draws to it cases arising
under the revenue laws, then it is contended, as this suit is
founded on one of the tariff acts bf Congress, which has been
judicially interpreted so as to sustain the claim, therefore
the case of the appellants is brought within the first jurisdictional clause of the act creating the Court of Claims. But
this result does not follow, for if the court has decided that
the appellants, if they had protested, would have been entitled
* 10 Peters, 153.

t Bond v. Hoyt, 13 Peters, 268; Lawrence v. Caswell, 13 Howard, 488;
Curtis v. Fiedler, 2 Black, 461.

Dec. 1868.]

NICHOLS V. UITITED STATES.
Opinion 'of the court.

to be reimbursed for the excess of duties paid by them, it
has also decided, by not protesting they lost all right to ask
for repayment; and there has been no law of Congress-passed
since this decision placing them in the position they would
have been if they had protested. Neither can they invoke
to their aid a regulation of the Treasury Department, which
alone of all the departments deals with the question of duties
on imports, for there is no regulation touching the subject,
as is very evident from the avee'ment in their petition, that
the Treasury Department would not pay them because they
omitted to protest.
Besides, if there had been a regulation of the department
on the subject, it could not affect the rights of the appellants,
for such a regulation cannot change a law of Congress.
It is insisted, however, if this suit cannot be sustained on
these grounds, it can be sustainedon an implied contract
springing from the obligation of the government to refund
all duties that are illegally exacted. But we have seen that
these duties were not illegally exacted, were paid voluntarily,
and there is no such thing as an implied promise to pay,
against the positive command of a stafute.*
Enough has been said to show that if the Court of Claims
could take jurisdiction of this class of cases, its judgment
was right on the merits of this particular case.
But after, all, the important subject of inquiry is, did Congress, in creating the Court of Claims, intend to confer on
it the power to hear and determine cases arising under the
rev~enue laws?
The prompt collection of the revenue, and its faithful application, is one of the most vital duties of government.
Depending as the government does on its revenue to meet,
not only its current expenses, but to pay the interest on its
debt, it is of the utmost importance that it should be collected
with despatch, and that the officers of the treasury should be
able to make a reliable-estimate of means, in order to meet
liabilities. It would be difficult to do this, if the receipts
Cary v. Curtis, 3 Howard, 236.
VOL. VII.

9

NIcHOLS

V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

from duties and'internal taxes paid into the treasury, were
liable to be taken out of it, on suits prosecuted in the Court
of Olaim's for alleged errors and mistakes, concerning which
the officers charged with the collection and disbursement of
the revenue had received no information. Such a policy
would be disastrous to the finances of the country, for, as
there is no statute of limitations to bar these suits, it would
be impossible to tell, in advance, how much money would
be i'equired to pay the judgments obtained on them, and
the result would be, that the treasury estimates for any current year would be unreliable. To guard against such consequences, Congress has from time to time passed laws on
the subject of the revenue, which not only provide for the
manner of its collection, but also point out a way in which
errors can be corrected. These laws constitute a system,
which Congress has provided for the benefit of those persons
who complain of illegal assessments of taxes and illegal exactions of duties. In the administration of the tariff laws,
as we have seen, the Secretary of the Treasury decides what
is due on a specific importation of goods, but if the importer
is dissatisfied with this decision, he can contest the question
in a suit against the collector, if, before he pays the duties,
he tells the officers of the law, in writing, why he obiects to
their payment.
And an equal provision has been made to correct errors
in the administration of the internal revenue laws. The
party aggrieved can test the question of the illegality of an
assessment, or collection of taxes, by suit; but he cannot do
this until he has taken an appeal to the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue. If the commissioner delays his decision
beyond the period of six months from the time the appeal
is taken, then suit may be brought at any time within twelve
months from the date of the appeal.* Thus it will be seen that
the person who believes he has suffered wrong at the hands
of the assessor or collector, can appeal to the courts; but he
cannot do this until he has taken an intermediate appeal to
*-14 Stat. at Large, 111, amendment to

41;

19, on t.152.

Dec. 1868.]

NICHOLS V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

the cominissioner,.and at all events, he'is barred from bring.
ing a suit, unless he does it within a year from the time the'
commissioner is notified of his appeal. The object of these
different provisions is apparent. While the government is
desirous to secure the citizen a mode of redress against erroneous assessments or collections, it says to himi we want
all controverted questions concerning the revenue settled
speedily, and if you have complaint to make, you must let
the Commissione of Internal Revenue know the grQunds
of it; but if he decides against you, pr fails to decide at all,
you can test the question in the courts if you bring your suit
within a limited period df time.
These provisions are analogous tothose made for the benefit of the importing merchant, and the same results, neces-.
sarily follow. If the importer does not protest, hi6s right of
action is gone. So, if the part -complaining of an. illegal
assessment does not'appeil to. the commissioner, he, is alsb
barred of the right-to sue, and'heis without remedy, 6ven
if he does appeal, unless he sues within twelve months.
'Can it be supposed that Congress, after having carefully
constructed a revenue system, with ample provisions to redress wrong, intended to give to the taxpayer and importer
a further and different remedy?
The mischiefs that would result, if the' aggrieved party
could disregard the provisions in the system designed expressly for his security and benefit, and sue at any time in
-the Court of Claims, forbid the idea that Congress'intended
to allow any other modes to redress a supposed wrong in
the operation of the 'revenue laws, than such as are particu
larly given by those laws.
Without pursuing the subject further, we are satisfied
that cases arising under the revenue laws are not within the
iurisdiction of the Court of Claims.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

