DORSHEIMER V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. CL.

Statement of the case.

DORSHEIMERt V. UNITED

STATES.

The power intrusted by the act of Congress of March 3,1797, and that of
June 3, 1864, as amended in its 179th section by the act of March 3,
1865, to the Secretary of the Treasury to remit penalties, is one for the

exercise of his-discretion in a matter intrusted to him alone, and admits
of no appeal to the Court of Claims or to any other court.

from the Court of Claims.
Dorsheimer, collector of internal revenue at Buffalo, New
York, and two others, informers in the case, filed a petition
ili
the Court of Claims to recover from the United States
one-half of $220,102, which the government received on a
compromise with Sturges & Sons, of a prosecution against
property of one Rhomberg, a distiller.
The case was this:
The act of June 3, 1864, "to provide internal revenue,"
enacts, that any distiller who shall fail to make true entry
and report of his stills, liquors, &c., shall forfeit all the
liquors made, and all the vessels, stills, &c., and personal
property on the premises, &c.; and that these may be seized
by any collector, and held by him until a decision thereon
according to law.* And by its 179th section gives authority to collectors to prosecute for the recovery of fines, penalties, and forfeitures, in the name of the United States; and
confers the right to one moiety of them upon "the collector
or deputy collector" who shall first "inform of the cause,
matter, or thing, whereby such penalty may have been incurred."t
The amendnmlent to this section in the act of March 8,
1865,1 gives this to any person who shall first inform, and
adds, that when "the penalty is paid without suit, or before
judgment, and a moiety is claimed by any person as informer,
the Se2retary of the Treasury shall determine vhether any
claimant is entitled to such moiety, and to whom it shall be
paid."
APPEAT.

* 13 Stat. at Large, 805.

t- 1b. 305..-

$Ib. 483.

Dec.,1868.1

DoBsnEimn.z

V."iUNIiD STATES.,

Statement of the case.

An early act-one of March 3.i797*-confers authority
on the Secretary of the Treasupy to mitigate or remit anyfine, forfeiture, or penalty, incurred by any vessel, 'goods, or
wares, by force of the laws for laying, levying, or collecting
any duties or taxes, which, in his opinion, shall have been
incurred without wilful negligence, or any intention of fraud
in the person or persons incurring the same.
With these acts in force, Rhomberg, a distiller- t Dubiuque, Iowa, violated the laws by making, false'returns, andfraudulefttly withholding taxes to the amount of $195,000.
Upon information furnished by Dqrsheimer and the two
other persons, his liquors, distilling apparatus, grain, and
the cattle at the distillery, were seized, and proceedings 'for.
their forfeiture instituted in the several districts of New
Yoi'k, Illinois, and Iowa, where the seizures were made.
After the seizure, Sturges & Sons, of Chicago, intervened,
asserting that, without the least knowledge of Rhomberg's
fraud, they had made very large advances oii the property
seized. And they paid to the United States -$38,946, on
confession, by .Rhomberg, that that amount of taxes had been withheld by him.
The government, however, still holding on to the property
seized, and the suits being in existence, Sturges & SOns entered into negotiations with the Commissioner of the Internal Revenue, who accordingly released the spirits seized, and
dismissed the proceedings, excepting in Iowa, taking, in
place of them, the bond of Sturges & Sons for $275,000,
conditioned,
That, if it should be-determined by the commissioner that the
said spirits Are not subject to the lien of the government for
revenue duties, ds against the advances made by the said firm,
or if the obligors shall pay such sum of money as the commis:
sioner should determine to be due the government for said
property seized, then the obligation to bi void; it being understood that the obligors are not liable, under the bond, for any
penalty which the government may assess against Rhomberg,
1 Stat. at, large,,606; made perpetual by act of F eb. 11, 1800; "2Id. 7

DORSHEIMER V. VNYTED STATES.

[Sup. CC:

Statement 6f the case.

but only.shall be liable for the actual amount of duties found to
be unpaid, together with proper costs and charges attending
the investigation of the case and seizure of the property.
In the meanwhile the United States continued its prosecution against the distillery, and to prevent the loss which
would occur by stopping it, the officers in charge.proceeded
to use up the raw materials on hand which had been seized,
and, in so doing, produced liquors valued at $150,000; the
money (about $54,814) required to pay the expenses of so
running the distillery, being furnished by Sturges & Sons.
After various negotiations-Rhomberg's fraud standing
confessed on the records of the Treasury-the Secretary of
the Treasury compromised with Sturges & Sons, thus:
He relinquished to them the distillery and the appurtenances, and also the product of the distillery, namely, the
$150,000 worth of liquor, free of tax, and also the moneys
received at Dubuque, $54,814; also, the proceeds of the
cattle which had been sold, and the liquors seized, with the
claim of the United States for forfeiture. The government
also surrendered the bond for $275,000, given by Sturges &
Sons, and assigned to them a bond given by Rhomberg to
the United States. The government, on its part, received
$220,102, "which amount the Secretary of the Treasury
stated to be composed as follows:"
. .
Deficiency of taxes,
.
In lieu of penalties nd forfeitures,

$195,102
25,000
$220,102

This compromise was made in face of a protest of Dorsheinier and his co-'informers, against any settlement which
should make a distinction between the share to be paid to
the government and the share to be paid to them. The
secretary professed to make it under the 44th section of the
act of 30th June, 1864, which gives him power to "compromisc" all suits "relating to the internal revenue."
The compromise being made, Dorsheimer and his conformers claimed from the secretary one-half of the $220,-

De. 186.]

D'oRSHEIM'EICV. U9ITED STATES.

-169

Argument for-the informers.

102 received. The secretariy refused to pay them the half
of that sum, but was willing to pay them half of the $25"000,
this last sum being, as he considered, all that was 'received
in lieu of penalties and forfeiture. Dorsheimer and his coinformers accordingly' tiled their petition in- the Court, of
Claims, setting forth the facts of the case as above, and
claiming the half of the $220,102. The United States demurred, and thedemurrer-after argument, in which' .The
United States v. Xlorris, reported in 10th Wheaton, 246, was
relied 6n to support it-being sustaiped, and the petition
dismissed, the case was 'brought here by the informers on
appeal.
Messrs. Dorsheimer and Dick (with whom was Mr. H. Blair),
for the appellants:
Invited by statutes relating to the internal revenue, the
petitioners below undertook the services mentioned in this
case. They thus became employed by the government, and
rights accrued to them for their services., When ,suit was
instithted, it was in.stituted upon a forfeiture given by law;'
a forfeiture as from the date of the offence committed; ' and.
this forfeiture was a "statutory tran sfer of kight."* The
right was to the joint use of the government and the informers, and ,so continued until the final settlement was
made.t The' interest of an informer is a matter of cclatract, and a right of property, though, until decree, but 'an
inchoate right, vests; a righi which the government cannot
affect.1 No dotibt the secretary may remit, in virtue of preexisting statutes; but this power, says this court inThe Gray
Jacket,ยง "is defined and limited by law." The jurisdictibn
is a special one, and, if transcended, the secretary's act is
void.
The compromise could not be sustained at all on the act
Caldwell v. United Statesi 8 iloward, S66, 381.
t Jones v. Shore, 1 Wheaton, 462.
$ The King v. Amery, 2 Durnford & East, 569; In re Flourney, 1 Geoigia
State, 606.
' 5 Wallace 342; ind see McLane v. United States, 6 Peters, 404.

170

DORSHEIMER V. UNITED STATES.

[511p

Ct.

Argument for the informers.

of 1797, which gives authority to remit or mitigate only or
the ground of innocence. Here the guilt was confessed.
And the secretary here made 'no voluntary or gratuitous
surrender of any of the joint rights and claims. On the contrary, he made the most out of them that could be made.
Neither can the secretary, under the power given in the
act of 1864 to "compromise," so compromise as to destroy
the rights of the informers, in the way which he would .here
seek to do. The secretary stood in the place of the parties
interested in the suit, parties who had a joint interest. He
had no power, under any proceeding, however named, to
divide the interest of the government from that of the officers; nor to settle the controversy upon terms which would

make the result of what he did enure to the advantage of
one and not of the other. His power extended no further
than to agree with the opposing claimant, on the division betwpen him, such claimant, and the parties represented by the
secretary, of the property seized, and what the opposing
claimant relinquished belonged to the parties to the suit;
belonging to them not de novo, but by means of the previbusly existing title. A compromise is a common end of a
suit, well known to the law, and yields fruits which are as
thoroughly the avails of the suit as would be those given by
a writ of execution. And, indeed, as this mode of ferminating.these suits is prescribed by the act under consideration, it may be well considered, as in the category ofprocess
of law for the enforcement of claims under the statute.
The United States v. Morris* decides nothing more than
that the authority to remit the forfeiture is not limited to
the period before condemnation or judgment, but that "the
authority to remit is limited only by the payment of the
money to the collector for distribution." So the court says:
"If the government refuse, to adopt thd informer's acts,
or waive the forfeiture, there is an end to his claim; he
cannot proceed to enforce that which the government repludiates." Whenc6 it is inferable that if the government
* 10 Wheaton,'246.

Dec. 1868.]

DORSHEIMIER V,

UNITED STATES.

Argument for the informers.

did a'dopt his acts, afid did not waive the' f6rfelture, but) on
the contrary, reaped a great benefit from them, that then the
qilformer would be entitled to recover his share of that which
the government received by aild through the adoption of his
acts, and the'proceedings upon his information.
In the pase now at bar, there was an action instituted by
the government upon and as the direct consequence of 'the
collector's proceedings. 'The only question is whether thp
money received was the fruit of the action. Clearly it was
for through the proceedings of the collector the government
received a large sum; without them it would have rpceived,
nothing.
Tl41e taxes, so called, were not paid by or on behalf of
Rfomberg, and no one else was liable for them. Xo receip!
fQr taxes was given to any one, nor were Rhomberg's interests considered at all in the settlement. The purchasers'
of the property from him were negotiating with the United
States for a confirmation of their title, and asked for and got
a sale, transfer, and delivery of the property, clothed with the
title which the government had acquired. Sturges & Sons
considered the case theirs. Rhomberg was out of the ques.
tion. The forfeitures by his frauds, standing confessed, had
extinguished him.
There is no doubt but that the claimants would have been
en titled to the moiety of this sum of $195,102, if the secretary had not called it by the name of taxes. The compromise was simply that the owners paid $220,102, and received
back their property, worth. $850,000, with a discontinuance
of the suit. But the secretary determines within his own
mind-in. petto-that this sum of $220,102 shall be composed
of certain elements; a compositionwholly imaginary; and,
that the compromise should consist in, his receiving a sum
equal to the taxes. on a part of the property, and another
sum, fixed arbitrarily, which he called the forfeiture. If,.
after the money had been paid, he had reconsidered -his determination, and called the $195,102 forfeiture' -instead of
taxes, the claimants would have been entitled to one-half of,
this, and the defendant in the other suit would have been

DORSHEIMER V. UNITED STATES.

[Slip. Ct.

Argument for the government.

neither injured nor affected; and if, on the contrary, he had
reconsidered his determination, and called'the $25,000 taxes
on some other p6rtion of the property relinquished, the
claimants would have been entitled to nothing; and the'defendant in the other suit would have been neither benefited
nor affected. Now, has the secretary, under a power to
"compromise a suit," not only a power to compromise the
suit, but an absolute right of distribution over the proceeds ?
We conceive that the governmen't had a controlling right to
abandon the adventure, but wesubmit that it had no right
to remit its partner's share and retain its own.
In conclusion: The claims of the informers are maintained

by the general polic of the United States; which is, that
whenever the government adopts the acts of the informer,
and proceeds upon his discoveries and to his risk, it will
share equally with him whatever may be received through
his sproceedings; a policy which h6s never been departed
from since the establishment of the government has been
clearly indicated by its statutes, and repeatedly maintained
by this court.
Mr. Talbot, contra:
The only question is, whether the $195,102 was penalty.
The Secretary of the Treasury states that it was not received as penalty., And beyond the statement of this officer,
this court.will make no inquiry. That statement will be
'deemed sufficient to sustain.the demurrer.
But if the court look into the admitted case, it corroborates this representation of the secretary.
There was a confessed deficiency of $195,000 taxes, and
$33,946 was paid soon after the seizure, upon a confession of
so much deficiency of taxes. The b6nd given by Sturges
& Sons was to secure payment of unpaid taxes.
To these statements of fact it is no answer to say even
that the action of the secretary was not authorized by law.
Whether brought about lawfully or otherwise, the result,
namely, the non-payment of the sum of $195,102, or of any
part thereof, as penalty, takes away the foundation of this

Dec..1868.]

DoRSHziMEh V. UNITED STATES.

-,173

Opinion of the courk

claim. For this is a claim not for damages, becausethe
Secretary of the Treasury has unlawfully prevented a moiety
from accruing to the appellants, but for a moiety wlich they
allege did accrue. 'Nor does it avail the appellants that what'
was received ought to have been received as penalty. It is
enough in support of the demurrer to show that, in fact, it
was not paid and received as penalty.
Further. The act of the secretary in discontinuing these
Proceedings upon full payment of the taxes withheld, and of
$25,000 in lieu of fines and penalties, was within the scope
'of authority conferred by the 44th section of the act of 1864,.
to compromise all "suits relating to internal revenu6."
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court,.
and having quoted the act of March 3d,1797, and the 179th
section of that of June 3d, 1864, as amended in the act of
March 3d, 1865, all, as already given in the statement of the
case,* proceeded as follows:
The purpose of -penalties inflicted upon persons who attempt to defraud the 'revenue, is to enforce the collection of
duties and taxes. They act in terrorerm upon parties whose
conscientious scruples are not sufficient to balance their
hopes of profit. The offer of a portion of such penalties to
the collectdrs is to stimulate and reward ,their zeal and industry in detecting fraudulent attempts to evade the payment
of duties and taxes.
As the great object'of the act "to provide internal revenue"
is to collect the tax, the Secretary of the Treasury has no
powr to remit it. When the piimary object of collecting
the tax is obtained, as in the present case, the further infikition of penalties, is submitted entirely to the discretion of the
secretary. No discretion is given to'the courts to act in the
case further than to give their judgment; and if the penalties are not mitigated or remitted by the secretary, either
before or after judgment, to enforce them by proper process.
The subject has been carefully examined by this court it.
* Supfra, pp. 166-7.

DORSHEIMER

v.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the case of United States v. .Morris,* where it is decided "that
the Secretary of the Treasury has authority, under the remission act of March 3d, 1797, to remit a forfeiture or penalty accruing tinder the revenue laws at any time, before or
after judgment, for the penalty, until the money is aptually.
paid over to the collector," and that" such remission extends
to the shares of the forfeiture or penalty to which the officers
of the customs are entitled, as well as to the interests of the
United Statqs."
The court say that, "'It is not denied but that the customhouse officers have an inchoate interest upon the seizure;
and it is admittd that this may be defeated by a remission
at any time before condemnation. If their interest before
condemnation is conditional, and subject to the power of remission, the judgment of condemnation can have no other
effect than to fix and determine that interest as against the
claimant. These officers , although they may be considered
parties in interest, are not parties on the record, and it cannot be said with propriety, that they have a vested right in
the sense in which the law considers such rights. Their interest is still conditional, and the condemnation only ascertains and determines the fact on which the right is consummated, should no remission take place." The- right does
not become fixed until thereceipt of the money by the col
lector.
If these well-settled principles be applied to the case before us, its solution is easy.
It was the first duty,of the ,collector to collect the amount
of duties or taxes on the property seized. The secretary
had no right to mitigate, remit, or compromise that amount.
Persons who had advanced money on the property in good
faith offer the whole amount of the tax due, and finally
agreed to pay the sum of $25,000 to have the penalties remitted. This offer was accepted, and the further prosecution of the suits was consequently ended.
The power intrusted by law to the secretary was not a
10 Wheaton, 246, 287.

Dec. 1868.]

SUPERVISORS- V.

"RoGERS.

Statement of the case.

judicial one, but one, of merey, to mitigate the severityof
the law. It admitted of no.appeal to the Court of Claims,
or to any other court. It was the exercise of his discretion
in a matter intrusted to him alone, and from which there
could be no appeal. Even if we were called upbn t6 review
the acts of the secretary, we see no reason to doubt their
correctness, or that of the judgment of the Court of Clailms
_n dismissing the case.
DEQRE AFFIRMED.

The CHIEF JUSTICE and.Mr. Justice
sented.

TELSON dis-

SuPEvIsoRs v. ROGERS.
1. The act of February 28th, 1839 ( 8, 5 Stat. at Large, 822), providing for
the transfer, under certain circumstances named in it, of a suit from one
* Circuit Court to the most convenientCircuit Court in the next adjacent
State, is not repealed by the act of larch ,3d, 1863 (12 Stat. at Large,,
768), providing that under certain circumstances named in it,
the circuit judge of one circuit may request the judge of any other circuit to
hold the court of the former judge during a specified time.
2. A court of the "nited. States has power to adopt in a particular case a
rule of practice under a State statute ; and where a Circuit Court is
possessed of a case from another circuit, under the above-mentioned act
of 1889, it may.adopt the practice of the State in which the Circuit
Court from whict the case is transferred sits, as fully as could the Civcuit Court which had possession of the case originally.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for Northern Illinois. The
case, which involved -two points, being this':
1. An act of Congress of the 28th of February, 1839,* provides, that in all 'suits in any Circuit Court of the. Uhited
States, in which it shall appear that both the judges, or the
one who is solely competent to try the same, shall be in a g
way interested, or shall have been counsel, or connected with
eithei' party so as to render it improper to try.the cause, it
shall be the duty of such-judge; or judges, on the applica.
* J 8, 5 Stat. at Large, 822.

