GARRISON V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

GARRISON V.

UNITED STATES.

An amendment, not very clear in its terms, to an original government con.
tract, was in this case interpreted against the interests of the government, the amendment having been suggested by one officer of the government, signed by another officer in behalf of the government, without
its being signed 'by the contractor on the other side, and the interpretation which this court thus, and upon what it deemed a reasonable construction of the language of the amendment, gave to the amendment,
having been that which the officer who suggested it had acted upon as
the right one.
APPEAL from the Colirt of Claims; the facts as found by
that court being thus:
The Secretary of War, by an order, approved by the
President, of the date of September 1st, 1861, authorized
General Butler to "raise, organize, arm, uniform, and equip,"
in the New England States, a force not exceeding six regiments, and his requisition§ on the quartermaster's, ordnance, and other staff departments of the army, were to be
obeyed, provided "the cost of such recruitment, armament,
and equipment, did not exceed, in the aggregate, that of like
troops now or hereafter raised for the service of the United
States." Under this order, one C. K. Garrison entered,
October 7th, 1861, into a written contract with General
Butler, by which he, Garrison, agreed to deliver to the
United States six thousand "Minie rifles of the Liege pattern, with sabre bayonets, and all appendages complete;"
and the United States contracted and agreed "to V-ay for
each of said rifles, as shall pass inspection, the sum of twentysecen dollars, or such less sum as the Ordnance Department
may have paid for guns like in quality or description, or
contracted to pay for to said Garrison."
At the date of this agreement, Garrison had a coutract
then existing with the Ordnance Department, dated July
1st, 1861, for ten thousand Liege guns, at $27 per gun,
which had not then been performed. But lie had ilot made
any coitiact as yet for any other kind of gun.

Dec. 1868.]

GARRISON V.

UNITED STATE.S.

689

Statement of the case.

Before the time had elapsed for the delivery of the guns,
to be delivered under bis contract with General Butler,
.Major Strong, chief of ordnance of the -L.ew .England Departmncnt, suggested that the Enfield rifle should he substiti~ed
fbr the Liege pattern; and this being agreed to, a memorandum, as follows, was indorsed on the original contract:
"It is agreed by the United States to accept from C. K. Garrison, the contractor, the long Enfield rifles, with bayonets of the
triangular'attern,in place of the sabre bayonets, upon the value
conditions as are herein specified.
"B. F.

BUTLEri,
"1Maj. Gen'l Comd'g."

Under the contract as thus altered, six thousand muskets,
which it was admitted conformed with the requirements
of the engagemeut, were seasonably delivered, and two
vouchers were given, with the approval of General Butler,
o Garrison, by Major Strbng, at $27 per gun, the first dated
November 20th, 1861, for 2800 guns, and the sec6nd the
11th of December following. The first one was paid in full.
But on the voucher for the remaining 8200 guns, in consequence of orders received from the Secretary oF War, no
more than $20 a gun was paid; Major Strong, however,
certifying upon it, that the voucher, as made out (that is to
say, with the sum of $27 a gun charged),-vas "correct and
just," "the contractprice being $27 each gan."
At the date of the contract, the price of the sort of guns
specified in the m-emorandum made by General Butler, and
which Garrison furnished, was from $20 to $23 a gun. It
did not appear, however,, that the Liege gun had been pur
chased for less than $27.
Upon the foregoing case the Court of Claims held:
First. That by the true construction of the contract and
supplement, the United States were to pay to Garrison the,
same price, the'Ordnance Department had previously agreed
to pay him for guns of like quality and description.
Second. That not having any such agreement with the
Ordnance Department for guns of the quality or kind de.
VOL. vii.

44

GARRISON V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

livered, he was entitled to such price for them as the Ordnance Department were paying for similar guns at or about
the date of the contract or delivery of the guns.
From this decree Girrison appealed to this court. The
case'was submitted on briefs. Ar. T. J. D. .Fuller,for the
appellant, insisting that the only effect of this supplementary
indorsement of Gener. 1 Butler was to substitute thc Enfield
for the Liege gun, at the same price that was agreed to be paid
for, the latter; Mr. _oar, Attorney-Generail, for the government, maintaining, qontra, that its effect was to accept the
Enfield rifle at any sum less than $27, for which the United
States had purchased Enfield rifles, prior to the date of the
contract, from any other person; General Butler's authority
from the Secretary of War to contract having been limited
to the prices which the government had paid for arms pimilar
to those which he bought.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The matter in issue is to be determined by a sound construction of the written contract.
It must be confessed that the language of the memorandum is not happy. To accept the Enfield rifle, in place of
the sabre bayonet, " upon the value conditions as are herein
specified," is not very clear, and at best but amounts to a
refirence to the original agreement for the price of the substitntcd gun.
eVare inclined" to the view of the contract claimed by
plaintiff, for the following reasons:
1. The supplementary agreement is signed by General
Butler, and not by plaintiff. Its doubtfnl expressions should.
therefore, according to a well-known rule, be construed most
stroigly against the party who uses the language.
2. The change in the contract was made at the request
of the ordnance officer of the government. It was, therefore, for the accommodation of defendant.
3. [lis construction was acted upon at the time by Major
Strong, the officer at whose suggestiofi it was made, and whio
certified the account, and paid at that price for the first 2800

1)cc. 1868.]

GARRISON V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

guns, and would have paid the same price for the others, but
was forbidden by the Secretary of War.
4. According to our construqtion of the original agreement, the alternative pri~e, less than $27, was the price of
Liege guns, for which the government might ha-ve paid, or
contracted to pay, Gar2'ison,before the present contract. This
view is confirmed by the fact, found by the court, that Garrison had a contract with the Ordiance Department, of July
1, 1861, for ten thousand Liege guns, at $27 per gun, which
had not then been performed. It seems reasonable that it
was in reference to this contract with Garrison, already
made by the department, the price of which was probably
unknown to General Butler, that the provisioniwas inserted
by which he secured himself againt paying more than the
government had already paid for similar guns to the same.
party, and as Garrison knewwhat the price in that contract
was, he had no objection to the provision.
If this view of the alternative clause of the original agreement be correct, then it could have no applicatiol to the
substituted Enfield rifle, because Garrison had never received any pay, or contracted to receive pay, for such guns,
with the Ordnance Department. The effect of 'this was to
leave the reference of the subsequent indorsement to the
o)riginal contract for the price, as limited to the $27.
As we have already said that we believe this to have been
the real' intention of the parties, it should be carried into
effect by the Court of Claims.
It is objected to this view that General Butler's authority,
from the Secretary of War, to contract, was limited to the
prices paid by the government for arms similar to those purchased by him, and that this court finds that Enfield rifles
were then being purchased at from $20 to $28 per gun.
We do not so understand the order to General Butler.
His order was to raise, arm, and equip, six thousand men,
"provided the'cost of such recruitment, armament, and
equipment, does not exceed in ite aggregatethat of like troops
now or hereafir raised for the service of the United States.'Our first observation is, that this must evidently have been

JAMES

v. BANXK.

[Sup. Ct.

.Statement of the case.

merely directory to General Butler'; for it could not have
been supposed that he could contract with 4ny person- for
arms, clothing, &c., at prices to be determined by what the
government could buy them for afterwards.
2. General Butler was only required to bring the costs of
recruiting, arming, and equipment, in the aggregate, within
that of like troops raised for the service. This, of course,
left him a discretion in contracting for each article he needed,
provided the amount of all his contracts did not exceed the
expense laid down by the rule.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is REVERSED, with
instructions to the court below to enter a judgment for the
plaintiff for the differenc6 between $20 and $27 each for the
3200 guns described in the second voucher.

JAMES V. BANK.
Where there is no bill of exceptions, and nothing upon which error can be
assigned, the.regular practice is to affirm the judgments, not to dismiss

IN error to the Circuit Court for Louisiana.
The Bank of Mobile brought suit in the court below against
one James, on bill .of exchange. The record of the case, as
sent here, contained nothing but the declaration; the plea
of the general issue; the proof of protest of the bill o'f exchange, indo-sed by the defendant, and notice to him of nonpayment, and judgment of the court in favor of the plaintiff.
There was no bill of exceptions, and nothing upon which
error could be assigned.
A niotion was now made by Mr. P. Phillips,in. behalf of
the defendant in error, to dismiss the case; an unreported order
of dismissal, which was said to have been made at the last
terni on a similar case, being referred to.
Mr. Carlisle, contra.

