Dec. 1868.]

RAILiOAD COMPANY v. BRADLEYS.

575

Statement of the case.

the motion now before us is made, depends on the question
whether, by the proceedings tdken in the case, the writ of.
error upon the first judgment became a supersedeas?
And this question is answered by the express words of the
twenty-third section of the Judiciary Act.
The legislature has seen fit tQ make the lodgifig of a copy
of the writ, within ten days, a prerequisite to the operation
of the writ as a supersedeas. The cause was removed from
the inferior court to this court, by the issuiug of the wvrit)
and the due service of it upon the court to which it is addressed; but its additional effect, as a supersedeas, depends
upon compliance with the conditions imposed by the act.
We cannot dispense with that compliaice in respee to
lodging a copy for the adverse party.
The motion for writs of supersedeas in both cases must,
therefore, be DENIED;, and as the second writ of error bringp

nothing before us, unless the writ in the first"case operated
as a supersedeas under the statute, that writ must be
DISMISSED.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. BRADLEYS-.

1. A decree ordering an injunction, p reviously granted to restrain a sale
under a deed of trust, to be dissolved, and directing a sale according to the
deed of trust, and the bringing of the proceeds into court, held to be a

final decree.
2. An actual ,allowance of an appeal nay be inferred where the record
shows that an appeal was prayed for in opea court, -and an appeal bond
filed and approved by one of the judges.'
3. A supersedeas granted, the record showing that a decree dissolving an
injunction was made on the 6th of February, a petition for the suspension of the order filed by one party on the, same day, by another on the
15th, a petition to open the decree on the 13th ; a motion to rescind,
made on the 6th March, during the term at which the decree was rendered, which' motion was heard and denied dn the 13th, with an appeal
prayed iu open court on the 20th, and an appeal bond filed on the 23d."
MOTIONS to dismiss and for supersedeas, on an appeal from
tho Supreme Court of the District of Columbia. The case,
was thus;

576

RAILROAD COMPANY V. I BRADLEYS.

[Sup. "Ct.

Statement of the case.

The Washington, Georgetown, and Alexandria Railroad
Company had filed, in 1863, a bill to enjoin the City of
Washington and J. and A. Bradley, trustees, from making
sale of certain property conveyed by the company in mortg,-age to the said Bradleys as trustees, and under which the
Bradleys were about to sell the property to pay the mortgage debt. An injunction was accordingly granted. But
after various proceedings on both sides, a decree was entered,
on the 6th of February,,1869, Which ordered that the injunction be dissolved, and directed a sale by the Bradleys, the trustees
of the properly in controversy,,according to the deed of trust, and
the bringing of the proceeds into court to abide further orders.
From this decree an appeal was prayed in open court by
the railroad company, and subsequently an appeal bond was
filed in the court, and approved by one of the judge . But
it did not appear directly that an appeal was alldwed.
As already stated, the decree dissolving the injunction
and directing a sale, was entered on the 6th of February,
1869. A petition for the suspension of this order of dissolution was filed, by the secretary of the railroad company,
on the same day; a motion to th,3 same effect was made in
behalf of the Department of War, on the 15th of February,
anld a petition to open the decree was filed on the 13th of
February, by one of the stockholders of the company.
On the 6th of March, and during the term at which the
'decree was rendered, a motion to rescind was made in behalf of the railroad company, and on the 13th of that month
was heard and denied.
On the 20th the appeal was prayed by the railroad company, and on the 23d the bond of appeal was approved and
filedUpon this state of facts two motions were now made'
in this court,-one, in behalf of the appellees, to dismies the
cause for v,ant of jurisdiction; the other, in behalf of the
appellants, for a supersedeas.
In support of the motion to dismiss, it was urged,
Fi'rst,that the decree apealed from was not final; and,
Secondly, thatt there was no allowance of appeal.

Dec. 1868.j

RAILROAD

COMPANY V. BRADLEYS.

577

Opinion of the court.

In support of the motion for supersedeas, that the appeal
bond was approved, and filed'within ten days after the
decree.
Messrs. Biddle and Brent,for the appellants.
Mr. J. IT. Bradley, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
We think that the decree entered on the 6th of February'
1869, was a final decree within the principles of the case of
'Tiomsonv. Dean,* decided at this term, though it nmight have
been otherwise had the 'decree been limited to the dissolution
of the injunction, thereby iierely permitting the trustees to
sell under their trust.
The first ground of the motion to dismiss, therefore, cannot be siqstained.
Nor is the second ground more. tenable. It is true that
it does not appear upon- the record directly that' there was
an allowance of the appeal; but an appeal was prayed, and
subsequently the gppeal bond was filed in the court, ahd. approved by one of the judges; and, we think, it'may he properly inferred, from these Tacts, that an appeal was actually
allowed., The motion to dismiss, therefore, must bedenied.
In support of the motion for supersedeas, it was argued
that the appeal bond was approved, and filed within ten
days after the decree.
The decree was entered on the 6th of February, 1869. A
petition for the suspension of the order of dissolution was
filed, by the secretary of the complainants, on the same day;
a motion to the same effect was made in behalf of the Department of War,'on the 15th of February; and a petition
to open the decree was filed on the 13th of February, by
one of the stockholders of the company.
We do not think it necessary to consider the effect ,of
either of these proceedings; for, on the 6th*of March,'and,'
as we understand, during the term at which the decree was
Supra, p.
VOL. Vii.

37

342.

578

MORRIS AND JOHNSON V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

rendered, a motion to rescind was made in behalf of the
complainants, and was beard and decided.
There is no doubt that, during the term, the decree was,
at all times, subject to be rescinded or modified, upon motion, and could not, therefore, be regarded as, absolutely
final, until the end of the term. It became final, in this
case, when the motion to rescind had been heard and denied. This took place on the 18th of March, and, on the
20th, the appeal was prayed in open court, and on the 23d
the bond of appeal was approved and filed.
We think this was in time, and the motion for supersedeas
must, therefore, be allowed.*
ORDERS ACCORDINGLY

MORRIS AND JOHNSON V. UNITED STATES.
1. An information under the acts of August 6th, 1861, and July 17th, 1862,
which presents only a case of the unlawful conversion of property to
the use of the persons proceeded against, cannot be sustained.
2. Neither the act of 1861, nor the act of 1862, contemplates any proceeding, as in adtniralty, where there existed no specific property or proceeds capable of seizure and capture. •

APPEAL from the District Court for the Middle District of
Alabama.
By An act of Congress of August.6th, 1861, property used
in aid of the rebellion was made the lawful subject of prize
and capture wherever found; and it was made the duty of the
President of the United States to cause the same to be seized,
confiscated, and condemned. And a subsequent act, that of
17th July, 1862, authorized the seizure and confiscation of
the property of certain persons engaged in the rdbellion.
These statutes being in force, an information was exhibited in this case in the cburt below, alleging, in substance,
that certain bales of cotton had become the property of the
Brockett v. Brockett, 2 Howard, 240.

