Dec. 1868;]

PALMER V. DONNER.
Statement of the case.

setts, which declares that" no subject shall be held to answer
for any crime or offence, until ihe same is fully and plainly,
substantially and formally, described to him;" nor be "de spoiled or deprived of his property, immunities or privileges, put out of the protection of the law, exiled or deprived
of his life, liberty or estate, but by the judgment of his peers,
or the law of the land,"* is answered by the costruction
which the Supreme Court of that State has given to these
provisions. It has held that the proceeding taken for the
removal of the plaintiff could not in any just and proper
sense be deemed a criminal procedure; in which a party h".
a right to a full, formal, and substantial description of the
offence charged; and that it was not essential to the'validity
of the order of removal that it should be founded 'on legal
process according to the signification of the words,"per legem
as used in Magna Charta, or in the Declaration of
terrcm"
Rights.t This construction. of the highest court of the State,not called in question byany conflicting decision of that
court, is conclusive upon us.1
We find no error in the ruling of the Circuit Court, and
its judgment must therefore be
AFFIRMED.

PALMER V. DONNER.
A district judge has no authority to sign a citation upon a writ ot error to a
State court. 'When the citation has been thus signed, the writ of error
will be dismissed on motion.

THis was a motion,- made by Mr. 1. f. Bradley, to dismiss
a writ of error directed to the Supreme Court of the State of
California, on the ground that the citation bad 6een signed
by a district judge, which the record showed was the fact.
* Declaration of Rights, Art. 12.

t Randall, Petit' ner for MfaAdamus, 11 Allen, 473.
Provident Institution v. Massachusbtts, 6 Wallace, 630.

COPPELL

v). -HALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the ct urt.
The revisory jurisdiction of this court over th6 judgments
of State tribunals, is defined by the twenty-fifth section of
the Judiciary Act of 1789. It is there provided that the
citation must be signed by the chief justice, or judge; or
chancellor of the court rendering or passing the judginent
or decree complained of, or by a justice of the Supreme
Court of the United States. But the citation in' the- case
before us, was signed by a, district judge. This was without
authority of law, and the citation was, therefore, without
effect. The case therefore'is linot properly in this court, and
the writ of error must be
DISMISSED.

COPPELL V. HALL.
1. A contract made by a consul of a neutral power, with the'citizen of a
belligerent State, that he will -'protect,"'with his neutral name, from
capture by the belligerent, merchandise which such citizen, has in the
enemy's lines, is against public policy and void.
2.-During the late rebellion the President alone had power to license commercial intercourse between places within the lines of military occupation, ty forces of the United States, and places under the control of insurgents against it. Hence the general orders of the officer o£ the United
States, commanding in the department, could give no validity to such
intercourse.
8. Where suit is brought upon a contract which is void as against public
policy and, the laws, a party who pleads such invalidity of it does not
render the plea ineffective by a further defence in " reconvention ;" a
defence of this sort, to wit, that, if the contract be valid, he himself
take,, the position of a plaintiff, and makes a claim for damages for its
non-performance.

IN error to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Louisiana.
The case was-thig:
During the late civil war th6 city of New Orleans was in
military occupation of the United States forces, and most of
the neighboring, cotton region around, in inilitary possession
of rebel enemies.

