Dec. 1868.]

JACOBS v. BAKER.
Statement of the case.

forever, or for a very indefinite time. This could not have
been the intention of the parties.
We are of opinion that the testimony shows, in any view
that can be taken of it, that the condition was fully complied
with and performed, and with it passed all right of reversion
to the grantor or his heirs.
The rulings of the Circuit Court to which exceptions were
taken were in conformity to these views, and its
JUDGMENT IS. AFFIRMED.

JACOBS V. BAKER.
1. Semtbe that an improvement in the plan of constructing a jail, is not a subject of patent within the Patent Acts of 1836 or 1842.
2. Jacobs was not the first inventor of the improvements patented to him in
1859 and 1860, for improvements in the construction of jails.

JAcoBS filed a bill in the Circuit Court for Southern Ohio
against Baker, seeking relief for the infringement of four
separate patents, which had been granted to him, Jacobs, for
improvements in the construction of prisons. The bill set. forth
the different patents.
The first, dated January 7th, 1859, was for an improvement
in the construction of prisons, which the complainant set
forth in his specification with very numerous plates and designs. The claim concluded thus: "What I claim as my
invention, and desire to secure by letters patent, is a secret
passage, or guard-chamber, around the outside of an ironplate jail, and between said jail and a surrounding inclosure,
constructed and arranged, substantially as described, for the
purpose set forth." [The purpose was to allow the keeper
to oversee and overhear the prisoners, without their being
conscious of his presence.]
The next patent was dated 20th December, 1859, and purported to be for an "improvement in iron-plate jails." The
claim was for "the improved iron walls for the same, con-

JACOBS v. BAKER.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

sisting of the following parts, arranged and united as set
forth, to wit: the entire wall plates (A) having their edges
closely abutting,'the joint plates (e) united to and uniting
the plate A, by rivets (i), which have their riveted ends inwards, and countersunk to the depth of the thickness of the
plate A, in the manner and for the purposes herein set forth."
This specification was also accompanied by numerous plates.
The third patent, dated 21st February, 1860, was for an
"improvement in joining plates of metal," and was stated to
be specially applicable to prisons. The claim was for "the

construction of the joint, made by means of the closely
abutting plates (A A), and the flat and semicylindrical plates
B B, and rivets (c), substantially in the manner and for the

purpose set forth." This, too, had numerous drawings.
The fourth patent, dated 24th Juiy, 1860, was for an "improvement in iron prisons." The claim was for "constructing and arranging plate-iron cells in jails, separately from
each other, with vertical spaces (e), between the cells, upon
the same level, and horizontal spaces, between cells, arranged
one above another, substantially as and for the purpose described." This was also profusely illustrated by drawings.
The bill, which averred that the complainant was the original and first inventor of all these improvements, and that
the defendant was an infringer of his patents, asked that the
defendant might answer the bill under oath, and be compelled to state how extensively, and where he bad sold the
improvements patented, and to describe his modes of construction, &c.
The defendant did answer on oath, denying that the improvements were original with the complainant or new, but
averring that they had been long in use; and setting out
various jails ii different parts of the country where they had
been used in 1855, 1857, 1858, &c., all before the date of the
patents relied on.
A large amount of testimony was taken on both sides,
upon which the court below, considering that the defendant
had established his case, dismissed the bill with costs. The
case was now hore on an appeal by the patentee.

Dec. 1868.]

JAC0O3S

v. BAKER.

Opinion of the court.

Mr.Fisher,forthe appellant, assuming that the matters embraced by the patents were the proper subjects of patents
within the Patent Acts, went into an elaborate examination
of the testimony to show that the inventions were original
with the patentee.
.7 opposing counsel.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The patent act of 1836* enumerated the discoveries or
inventions for which patents shall be issued, and describes
them as "any new and useful art, machine, manufacture, or
composition of matter."
We have been at some loss to discover under which category to class the four patents which are the subjects of this
bill. The complainant alleges that he has invented a new
and useful improvement in the construction of jails. Now
a jail can hardly come under the denomination of "a machine;" nor, though made by hands, can it well be classed
with"' manufactures;" nor, although compounded of matter,
can it be termed a "composition of matter," in the meaning
of the patent act. "But if the subject-matter be neither a
machine nor a manufacture, nor a composition of matter,
then," says an author on the subject of patents,t "it must be
an art, for there can be no valid patent except it be for a thing
made, or for the art or process of maldng a thing." Now, without attempting to define the term "art" with logical accuracy,
we take as examples of it, some things which, in their concrete form, exhibit what we all concede to come within a correct definition, such as the art of printing, that of telegraphy,
or that of photography. The art of tanning leather might
also come within the category, because it requikes various processes and manipulations. The difficulty still exists, however,
under which category of the patent act an improvement in the
coistruction of jails is to be classed, or whether under any.
The patent act of 18421 gives -a copyright for "new and
6,1 5 Stat. at Large, 119.
.3, 5 Stat. at Large, 544.

t-Curtis on Patents, 91

298

JACOBS V. BAKER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

original designs for manufacture, whether of metal or other
material, for bust, statue, &c., or any new and original shape
or configuration of any article of manuihcture, to any inventor
who shall desire to obtain "n exclusive property, to make,
use, and vend the same, or copies of the same."
Now, although the complainant might contend (as one
would suppose from the immense number of plans, designs,
and drawings with which the record-in the case has been
incumbered) that his patent could be supported under this
act, yet still the difficulty remains whether the erection of a
jail can be treated as the infringement of a coloright.
But waiving all these difficulties as hypercritical, and assuning the correctness of the positions taken, that whatever
is neither a machine, nor a manufacture, nor a composition
of matter, must (ex necessitate) be "an art;" that a jail is a
thing " made;" and that the patent is for the "process of
nking it," let us examine the case as presented by the bill
and answer.
The bill relies upon four several patents which it sets forth.
They are dated January 7th and 20th December, 1859; 21st
February and 24th July, 1860. It would seem from the
quick succession of these patents and before the plans for
building jails which they severally suggested could well be
put practically into operation, and before any inquiry was
made as to how other persons constructed jails, that as a
new idea came into the complainant's mind, he immediately
proceeded to the Patent Office to get it patented.
Itis not necessary to the decision of this case to examine
whether all or any of the suggestions made by the complainant were proper subjects of patent. The bill presents a number of interrogatories to the defendant and requires him to
answer them under oath. The answer of the defendant denies that the complainant was the original and first inventor
of the several inventions claimed, or of any of them, and
avers that the devices described in the complainant's patents
were well known, and in use prior to the pretended invention of them by the complainant. And it enumerates many
pcr.,ow; who had used the devices before the complainant.

Dec. 1868.]

DRURY V). CROSS.

Statement of thg case.

The record presents no question of law as to the construction
of these patents. The only issues were of fact. It would be
a tedious as well as an unprofitable task to attempt to vindicate the correctness of our decision of this case by quoting
the testimony and examining the volume of plates annexed
to it. The decision could never be a precedent in any other
case. It is enough to say that we see no reason to doubt
the correctness of the decision of the Circuit Court on the
issues made, or the pleadings.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

DRuRY V. CROSS.
1. A sale, far below value, of a railroad, with its franchises, rolling stock,
&c., under a decree of foreclosure, set aside as fraudulent against creditors; the sale having been made under a scheme between the directors
of the road and the purchasers, by which the directors escaped liability
on indorsements which they had made for the railroad company. And
the purchasers held to be trustees to the creditors complainant, for the
full value of the property purchased, less a sum which the purchasers
had actually paid for a large lien claim, presented as for its apparent
amount, but which they had bought at a large discount. Interest on
the balance, from the day of purchase to the day of final decree in the
suit, to be added.
2. But because the full vadue of the property sold was not shown with sufficient certainty, the case was sent back for ascertainment of it by a
master.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for Wisconsin.
The case was this: Bailey & Co., of Liverpool, England,
held notes against the Milwaukee and Superior Rail*roa;J
Company, indorsed by four of its directors, for about $21,000
(the price of iron furnished to lay the road), and as collateral security for payment, $42,000 in mortgage bonds of
the road. Two hundred and eighty thousand dollai's in
similar bonds, but which had never been issued, were sealed
up and deposited with M. K. Jesup & Co., not to be issued
until the debt to Bailey & Co. was paid, and twenty-seven
miles of the road -were built. The company was managed
by a board of seven directors; of whom four made a quorum.

