Dec.'1868.]

PAcIFIC INSURANVCE COMPANY V. SOULE.

433.

Syllabus.

Besides, it is for the interest of the sureties that they
should be joined in the suit with their principal, as it' enables them to see that the accounts are correctly settled, and
the administrator's liability ixed on a proper basis. If they
were not made parties, considering the nature and extent
of their obligation, they would have just cause of complaint.
It is said the bill is multifarious, but we cannot see any
ground for such an objection.. A bill cannot be said to be
multifarious unless it embraces distinct matters, which do
not affect all the defendants alike. This case involves but
a single matter, and that is the true condition of the estate
of Fielding Curtis, which, when asceftained, wilf determine
the rights of the nextiof kin. In this -investigation all the
defendants are jointly interested. It is true the bill seeks
to open the settlements With the Probate Court as fraudulent, and to cancel the receipt and transfer from the complainant to the administrator, because obtained by false
representations; but the determination of these questions is
necessary to arrive at the proper value of the estate, and in
their determination the sureties are concerned, for 'the very
object of the bond which they gave was to protect the estate
against frauds, which the administrator might commit to its
prejudice.
The decree of the Circuit Court for the District of Missouri is REVERSED, and this cause is renanded to that court

with instructions to proceed IN CONFORMITY WITH THIS
OPINION.

PAcIFIc INSURANCE COMPANY V. SOULE.
1. When a person whose income or other moneys subject to tax or duty has
been received in coined money, makes his reur'n to the assessor, the 9th
section of the internal revenue act of July 13, 1866, is to be construed
as denying to him the right to return the amount thereof in the currency in which it was actually received, and to pay the tax or duty
thereon in legal tender currency, tihd is to be construed to require that
the difference between coined money and legal tender currency shall be
VOL. VIL

28

434

PACIFIC INSURANCE COMPANY

V. SOULE.

[SUp. Ct.

Statement of the case.
added to his return when made in coined money, and that he shall pay
the tax or duty upon the amount thus increased.

2. The income tax or duties laid by
105 and 120of the act of June 30,
1866, and the amendment thereto of July 13, 1866, upon the amounts
insured, renewed, or continued by insurance companies upon the gross
amounts of premiums received, and assessments made by them, and also
upon dividends, undistributed sums, and income, is not ,a direct tax,"

but a duty or excise.
ON certificate of division from the Circuit Court for California.
The Constitution of the United States* ordains thus:
"Direct taxes shall be apportioned among the several States
which may be included within the Union, according to their respective numbers."
With this provision of the Constitution in existence, Congress, by an internal revenue act of June 80, 1864,t amended
by act of July 13, 1866, laid a certain tax upon the amounts
insured, renewed, or continued by insurance companies;
upon the gross amount of premiums received and assessments
by them; and a tax also upon dividends, undistributed sums,
and income. A portion of the ninth section of the inteFual
revenue act of July 13, 1866,1 and acts amendatory thereto,
provide:
"That it shall be the duty of all persons required to make returns or lists of income, and articles or objects charged with an
internal tax, to declare in such returns or lists whether the several rates and amounts therein contained are stated according
to their values in legal tender currency, or according to their
values in coined money; and in case of neglect or refusal so to
declare to the satisfaction of the assistant assessor receiving such
returns or lists, such assistant assessor is hereby required to
make returns or lists of such persons neglecting or refusing, as
in cases of persons neglecting or refusing to make the returns
or lists required by the acts aforesaid, and to assess the duty
* Article I,
1 14 Id. 98.

2.

t 13 Stat. at Large, H 105, 120, pp. 276, 283.

Dec. 1868.]

PACIFIC INSURANCE CoMPANY V. SOULE.

435

Statement of the case.

thereon, and to add thereto the amount of penalties imposed by
law in cases of such neglect or refusal. And whenever the rates
and amounts contained ih the returns or lists as af6resaid, shall.
be stated in coined money, it shall be the duty of each assessor
receiving the same, to reduce such rates and amounts to their
equivalent in legal tender currency, according to the value of
such coined money in said currency, for the time covered by
'said returns. And the lists required by law to be furnished to
collectors by assessors shall in all cases contain the several
amounts of taxes or duties assessed, estimated or valued in legal
tender cnrrency only."
Prior acts of Congress had authorized the issue of United
States notes, commonly called legal tender notes. The act
first authorizing their issue, an act of February 25, 1862,*
enacted"Such notes shall -be receivable in payment of all taxes, internal duties, excises, debts, and demands of every kind due to the United
States (dxcept duties on imports), and of all claims and demands
against the United States, of every kind whatsoever (except for
interest on bonds and notes, which shall be paid in coin), and
shall also be lawful money and a legal tender in payment of all debts
public and private, within the United States (except duties on imports and interest as aforesaid). And such United States notes
shall be received the same as coin at their par value, in payment
of any loans that may-.be hereafter sold or negotiated by the
Secretary of the Treasury, and may be reissued from time to
time, as the exigencies of the public interests shall require.''
With these acts in force, the Paciffc Insurance Company,
a corporation engaged in the business of insurance in California, made returns upon the amounts insured, renewed,
&c., by it, upon its premiums and -assessments, and finally
upon its dividends, undistributed sums, and income; all as
required by the statute; the correctness of all the returns
being conceded. The different sources of income thus returned had been received by the company in coined money
* 12 Stat. at Large, 345, j 1.

436

PACIFIC INSURANCE COMPANY V. SOULE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the tax-payer.

(the currency of California), and the amounts as returned
were the amounts in that form of currency. The aggregate
tax under the statute upon this sum of coin was $5376. The
assessor then (against the protest of the insurance compauy)
added to the amounts as returned, the difference in value
between legal tender currency and coined money during the
time covered by the returns; and fixing the tax upon the
sum as thus increased, the aggregate amount of the tax came
to $7365. The collector demanded payment of this sum.
The company refused to pay the $7365, but tendered the
$5376 in legal tender notes. The collector refusing this,
and having seized and being about to sell the insurance
company's property, the company paid the larger sum, $7365,
under protest. The suit below was to recover back the
amount wrongly paid. The case coming on to be heard
upon demurrer, the court was divided in opinion upon seven
questions, reducible, as this court considered, in substance
to these two:
1. Whether that portion of the ninth section of the internal
revenue act of July, 1866,' above quoted, "is to be construed as
merely providing a rule as' to the currency in which accounts,
returns, and lists are to be stated, with a view to uniformity in
keeping the accounts o " internal revenue, or whether it is to be
construed as denying to a person who has received in coined
money, incomes or other moneys subject to tax or duty, the
right to return the amount thereof in the currency in which it
was actually received, and to pay the tax or duty thereon in
legal tender currency, and be construed to require that the difference between coined money and legal tender currency shall
be added to his return when made in coined money, and that
he shall pay the tax or duty upon tho amount thus increased?"
2. (Sixth in the series.) Whether the taxes paid by the plain.
tiff, and sought to be recovered back in this action, are not direct
taxes within the meaning of tlhe Constitution?
HJr. Wills, for the Insurance Company :
As to the first question. The undertaking made between
the government and the citizen, by Congress, wheu issuing

Dec. 1868.A PACrnc INSURANCE COMPANY V. SOULE.

4 .7

Argument for the tax-payer.

the notes called legal ten4ersf was that in,
all transactions
between the government and the citizen, other than in two
excepted cases stated, the paper dollar should be equivalent to the coin dollar, and in nothing is this contract made
more expressly than in regard to the subject of internal
taxation in all its branches. In other words, the government, as the taxing power, agrees that it will receive at par
the notes issued by it as a debtor, in payment of all internal taxes, due to it as the taxing power. It is therefore
estopped from regarding them as below par, for any purpose
relating to the subject 'of internal taxation, including the
assessment as well as the payment of that class of taxes.
The portion of the ninth section of the Internal Revenue
Act of 1866 in question cantiot therefore'be held to deny to
any man vho actually receives his iucome in coin-a form
in 'which income is universally received in California where
this case comes from-the right to pay his tax on puch income, in notes of the government, at the value expressed on
their face.
As' to the second question. The ordinary test of the differenbe between direct and indirect taxes, is whether the tax falls
ultimately on the tax-payer, or whether,.through 'the taxpayer, it falls ultimately on the consumer. If it falls ultimately on the tax-payer, then it is direct in its nature, as in
the case of potll taxes and land taxes. If, on the contrary, if
falls ulfinately on the consumer, then itis an indirect tax. ,
Sich-is the lest, as laid down by .ll
writers on the subject.,
Adam Smith, who was the great 'nd universally received
authority on political economy, in the day. when the Federal
Constitution was framed, sets forth a tax on a person's
revenue to be a direct tax.* Mill,t Say,J J. R. McCulloch,ยง
Lieber,J among political economists, do 'the same in specific
Wealth of Nations, vol. 3, p. 831.
t Elements of Political Economy, p. 267; Political Economy, vol. 2,
71, 882.
Political Economy,466.
Treatise on Taxation, pp. 125, 126, 184.'
"New American Cyclopedia, -vol. 7, p. 155.

438

PACIFIC INSURANCE COMPANY V. SOULE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the government.

language. Mr. Justice Bouvier, in his learned Law Dictionary, defines a capitation tax, "A poll tax; an imposition
which is yearly laid on each person according to his estate
and ability."
[The counsel quoting a learned brief of Mr. W. 0. Bartlett, then went into an examination of the opinions of Chief
Justices Ellsworth and iarshall, Oliver Wolcott, Madison,
and others, to show that in their opinion, a tax like the
present one would fall within the nature of a direct tax.]
Indeed, it is obvious that an income tax, levied on the
profits of any business, does not, fall ultimately on the consumer or patron of that business, in any other sense than
that in which a poll tax or laud tax may be said ultimately
to fall, or be charged over by the payer of those taxes upon
the persons with whom and for whom they do business,
or to whom they rent their lands. The refinement which
would argue otherwise, abolishes the whole distinction, and
under it all taxes may be regarded as direct -or indirect, at
pleasure.
But, if the distinction is recognized (and it must be, for
the Constitution makes it), then it follows, that an income
tax is, and always heretofore has been, regarded as being a
girect tax, as much so as a poll tax or as a land tax. If it
be a direct tax, then the Constitution is imperative that it
shall be apportioned.
If it be argued that an income tax cannot be apportioned,
then, it cannot be leVied; for 'only such direct taxes can be
levied as can be apportioned.
But -an income tax can be apportioned as easily as any
other direct tax; first, by determining the amount to be
raised from incomes throughout the United States, and then
by ascertaining the proportion to be paid by the people of
each State. An income tax, in the matter of its apportionment, is not embarrassed by any other difficulties thal those
which grow out of apportionment, in the admitted cases of
poll taxes and land taxes.
III'. Evarts, Attorney- General, contra:
It was clearly the object of the act, to compel -parties tc

Doec. 1868.]

PACIFIC INSURANCE COMPANY v. SouY.

489

Reply for the tax-payer.

pay the legal percentage on their incomes, estimating thein
at their value in legal tender currency. If the reduction of
all incomes to a legal tender standard was intended for no
other purpose than to establish a uniform system in keepin.g
the accounts of the internal revenue department, it is difficult to understand, first, why, in 'case of refusal to declare'
;n which currency the income return is made; the assessor
should be entitled to disregard the return, and exact, over
and above the regular income tax, a penalty of twenty-five
per cent.; and why "the lists required by law to be fuf'nished to collectors by assessors" are required "in all cases
to contain the several amountsof taxes assessed, estimated
or valued in legal tender currency only?" If the collector's
lists are to contain these amounts, these are the amounts to
be collected and paid. This is evident from other provisions
of the interfial revenue law. Thus, by section 20 of act
of June 30, 1864, as amended by act of July 13, 1866,* as
soon as the assessment has become perfect, the agsessor is
to make out the list and send it to the collector, and this
list is the guide, of the collector in the collection of the
tax; and by section 34 of same act, as amended,- the 6oflector is charged with the amount of taxes as stated on the
face of the lists, and credited with the amount of his collections.
The collector's duty is plain: to collect' the amount set
forth in the assessment list., The corresponding duty of the
party taxed is equally clear, -namely, to pay this amount.
The language of the law is in harmpny with the obvioug
intention of those who framed it, which was to adopt one
uniform standard for the computation, assessment and pay-.
ment of taxes of this description.
The other question is one which seems settled by the case
of Rylton v. United States, unanimously decided after able
argument.1
Reply: It is undoubtedly to dicta of the judges in Hylton v.
Stat. at Large for 1865-6, p. 103.

t

Ib. 110.

$ 3 Dallas, 171..

440

PAcIFic INSURANCE COMPANY V. SOULE.

[Sap. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

United States, to the efect that a capitation tax and a tax or
land are the principal, if not the only, direct taxes within the
meaning of the Constitution, that the general acquiescence
in the unapportiGned income tax is, in a great degree, attributable. The case was as follows: Hylton kept one hundred
and twenty-five chariots; they were taxed by the United
States, and the Supreme Court held that the tax was indirect, and did not require to be laid according to the rule of
apportionment. The decision of' the particular case before
the court was probably correct. It is impossible that a man
could have kept so many carriages for himself and his family
only to ride in; and, although he is stated in the report of
the case to have kept them for his own use, it is presumed
that the use referred to was the conveyance of passengers
for hire; in other words, that the one hundred and twentyfive chariots pertained to a line of stage-coaches. If this
was the fact, the tax was indirect; for the tax-payer could
charge it all ovel: to his passengers by making a slight addition to their fire. But although the decision of the case
before the court appears, for the reason stated, to have been
correct, positions were taken, in the opinions of the judges
delivered on the occasion, which are wholly untenable.
The court, at the time, was without a chief justice. Mr.
Ellsworth was sworn in on the day of the decision, and took
no part in it; and the case was decided at a very early dai-,
and before the Supreme Court had acquired the high po.ition which it afterwards attained. One of the judges, in
delivering his opiniot, Speaks of it as a "discourse;" they
all evince some want of knowledge of the subject which
they discuss. These discourses shine in the light shed back
upon them by the great intellect which for so many years
illuminated the decisions of this tribunal-the illustrious
Marshall-with whose grandeur of fame we naturally associate ideas of the Supreme Court.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff brought an kntion to recover back certain
taxes upon its business and -income, which it had paid to

De. 1868.] 'PAcIFIc

INSURANOECOMPAN-t V, SOULE.

44]

Opinion of th-court.

the defen.dant upon compulsion dnd under protest. The de
fendant demurred to the plaintiff's, complaint. Upon the
argumefit of the demurrer,: the opinions of the judges of
the Circuit'Court were opposdd upon sevenm questions, which
are set forth in 'the record. According to the view which
-we.take of the case, it will be sufficient to answer two of
them.' They dover the entire grounds of the controversy
between the parties, and their determination will be. con-

elusive.Theyare the'first and the sixth.

The first is':

"Whether that portion of the ninth (9th) sectioih of the 'act
of Congress, approved Suly 13,1866, entitled 'An act to reouce
'internal taxation;' and to amefi4. an' act, entitled' An act to provide internal revenue to 'support the gov~ernment, to pay interest
on the publio debt; aid for bther purposes, approved Sune 30th,.
1864; and acts amendatory thereof, whiph provides as follows,
to wit:
'That it shall be the.duty of all persons requiied to make returns or
lists of inicome, and articles or objects charged with an internal tax, to'
declare in sudh returns or lists whether the several rates and 'mounts'
therein contained, are stated, according to ibheir values in legal tender
currency, or ccording to their values in c6ined !noney ; alid in case of
pealect or refusal so, to declare, to' the satisfaction of the assistant assessor receiving such ret rns or lists, such assistant assessor is hereby
required to make returns or lists for such persons 'neglecting or refusing, as in cases of persons neglecting or refusing to make the returns
or liste required by he acts aforesaid, and to assess the duty thereon,
and to add theretd the amouu of penaltids imposed by law in cases of
such neglect or refusal. And N@henever the rates and amounts contained in the returns 6r lists as aforesaid, shall be stated in coined
money, it shall be the duty of. each assessor, receiving the same, to
reduce such rates and amounts to their equivalent in legal tender currenny, according to the value of such coined money in said currency,
fo the time covered by said returns. And the lists required by law to
be furnished to collectors, by assessors, shall, in all cases, contain the
several amounts of taxes or duties assessed, estimated or valued in
legal tender currency only'is to be construed as merely providing a rule as to the cur.rency in which accountsi returns, and lists are to bestated, with
a view to uniformity in'keeping the accountfs of in ternal revenue

442

PACIFIC INSURANCE COMPANY V. SOULE.

[SUP. CL

Opinion of the court.

or whether it is to be construed as denying to a person who has
received, in coined money, incomes or other moneys subject to
tax or duty, the right to return the amount thereof' in the currency in which it was actually received, and to pay the tax or

duty thereon in legal tender currency, and be construed to require that the difference between coined money and legal tender
currency shall be added to his return, when made in coined
money, and that he shall pay the tax or duty upon the amount

thus increased."
We think there can be no doubt as to the proper solution
of this question. A brief analysis of the provisions of the
statute which bear upon the subject, will be sufficient to
maintain the conclusion at which we have arrived.
1. The person making the return is required to declare
whether the amounts set forth in it are stated according to
their value in legal tender currency or in coined money.
2. If he fail to do so, he is subjected to a penalty, and the
assessor is required to make the returns for him.
3. The list, with all the amounts therein stated, according
to their values in legal tender currency, is to be placed by
the assessor in the hands of the collector.
4. The collector is charged with the aggregate amount,
and credited with his collections and otherwise, as is provided by the statute.
5. The taxes are made a lien, and, in default of payment,
property is to be seized and sold by the collector. Both
personal and real estate arel liable. Full directions are
given for the conduct of the proceedings.
'The meaning of the statute, examined by its own light, is
so clear that argument or illustration is unnecessary. It
was the object of Congress to provide a uniform basis of
taxation, in order to secure uniformity in the burdens imposed. "Equality is equity." According to the theory of
the plaintiff, it had a right to have 'the assessment made
upon the amounts received in coin, and to pay in currency,
while others, whose receipts were in currency, were to be
taxed upon that basis, and to pay in the same medium as
the plaintiff.
Such a result would be subversive of the

Dec. 1868J

PACIFIC LSURANCE COMPANY- V. SoutE.

443

Opinion of the court.

plainest principles of reason and justice. It cannot be supposed that such was the intention of those who framed the'
law. Certainly nothing in its language would warrant the
construction qontended'for.
Where the power of taxation, exercised by: Congress, is
warranted by the Coistitution-, as to mode and subject, it
is, necessarily, unlimited in its nature. Congress may prescribe the basis, fix the rates, and require payment as it
may:deem proper. Within the limits of the Constitution
lit is supreme in its action. No power of supervision or
1
control is lodged in either of the other departmenfs of the
government.
To this question it must be answered, that the statute did
deny to the plaiptiff the right to have the assessment made'
otherwise than as it was made by the assessor; and that it
required the plaintiff to pay the amount of the taxes ;et forth
in the list delivered by the assessor to the collector, and
which was paid. by the plaintiff, under protest, as appears
by the record.
IT. The sixth questiosn is:
:W
Whether tie taxes paid by' the plaintiff, and sought to be

recovered back in this action, .are not direct taxes, within the
'meaning of he Constitution of the United States."
In considering this subject, it is proper to advert to the
several provisions of the Constitution relating to tiaxation
by Congress.
"Representatives shall be apportioned among the several
States which shall be included in this Union, according to their
respective numbers," &c.*
"Congress shall have power to lay and collect taxes, duties,
imposts, and excises, to pay the debts and providb for the common defence and, general welfare of the United States; but all
duties, imposts, and excises shall be uniform throughout the
United States."t
"No capitation or other direct tax shall be laid, unless in pro,
*

rt--

2.t

* Axt. 1, a-2.

b.1.~8
t 1b. 1, 1 8.

444

PACIFIC INSURANCE COMPANY V. SOULE.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

portivn to the census of enumeration hereinbefore directed to be
taken.'
"No tax or duty shall be laid on articles exported from any
State."*
These clauses contain the entire grant of the taxing power
by the organic law, with the limitations which that instrumeet imposes.
The national government, though supreme within its own
sphere, is one of limited jurisdiction and specific functions.
It has no faculties but such as the Constitution has given it,
either expressly or incidentally by necessary intendment.
Whenever any act done under its authority is challenged,
the proper sanction must be found in its charter, or the act
is ultra vires and void. This test must be applied in the examination of the question before us. If the tax to which it
refers, is a "direct tax," it is clear that it has not been laid
in conformity to the requirements of the COnstitution. It is
therefore necessary to ascertain to which of the categories,
named in the eighth section of the first article, it belongs.
What are direct taxes, was elaborately argued and considered by this court in . ylton v. United States,t decided in
the year.1796. One of the members of the court, Justice
Wilson, had been a distinguished member of the Convention which franmd the Constitution. It was unanimously
held, by the four justices who heard the argument, that a
tax upon carriages, kept by the owner for his own use, was
not a direct tax. Justice Chase said:
"I am inclined to think, but of this I do not give a judicial
opinion, that the direct taxes contemplated by the Constitution
are only two, to wit: a capitation or poll tax simply, without
regard to property, profession, or any other circumstance, and
a tax on land."
Patterson, Justice, followed in the same line of remark.
He said:
"I never entertained a doubt that the principal, I will not
Art. 1,.$. 9.

t" 3 DaOWa, 171.

Dec. 1868.]

PACIFIC ThSURANCV, COMPANY V. 'SoULE.

445

Opinion of the court.

say the only, object the framers of the Constitution contemplated as falling within the rule of apportionment, was a capitation tax and a tax on ]and .....
.The Constitution declares
that a capitation 'tax is a direct tax; and both in theory and
practice a tax on land is deemed -to be a direct tax. In this
way the terms 'direct taxes,' and 'capitation and other direct
tax,' are satisfied."

The views expressed in this case are adopted, by Chancellor Kent and Justice Story, in their examination of the
subject.*
Duties are defined by Tomlin to be things due and recoverable by law. The term, in its widest signification, is hardly
less comprehensive than "taxes."
It is applied, in its most
restricted meaning, to c ustoms; and in that sense is nearl'r
the synonym of "imposts."t
Impost is a'duty on imported goods and merchandise. In
a larger sense, it is any tax or imposition.t Cowell says it
is distinguished from custom, "because custom is rather the
:profit which the prince makes on goods shipped out."ยง Mr.
Madison considered the terms "duties" and "imposts" in
these clauses as synonymous.1 Judge Tucker thought "they
were probably intended to comprehend every species of tax
'or contributioh not included under the ordinary terms,
'taxes and excises.'"
Excise is defined to be an inland imposition, sometimes
upon the consumption of the commodity, and sometimes
upon the retail sale; sometimes upon the manufacturer, and
sometimes upon the vendor.
* 1 Kent's

-

omrnmentary, 267; Story on the Constitution, 670. See, also,
liawle on the Constitution, 8; The Federalist, No. 84; and Tucker's Black.
stone, Appendix, 294.
"t Tomlin's Law Dictionary, title "1Duty;" 1 Story on the Constitution,
952; Hylton v. Ulnited States, 3 Dallas, 171.
1 Story's Const. Abr., 474.
J Cowell's Interpreter, title ", Impost."
1J1 Story's' Constitution, 669, note.
j' Ba tenian's Excise Law, 96; 1 Story's Constitution, 953; 1 Blaeotoze-i'.
Ocmmentary, 318; 1 Tucker's Blackstone, Appendix, 841

4.46

PACIFIC INSURANCE COMPANY V. SOULE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The taxing power is given in the most comprehensive
terms. The only limitations imposed are: That direct taxes,
including the capitation tax, shall be apportioned; that duties, imposts, and excises shall be uniform; and that no du.
ties shall be imposed upon articles exported from any State.
With these exceptions, the exercise of the power is, in all
respects, unfettered.
If a tax upon carriages, kept for his own use by the owner,
is not a direct tax, we can see no ground upon which a tax
upon the business of an insurance company can be held to
belong to that class of revenue charges.
It has been held that Congress may require direct taxes
to be laid and collected in the Territories as well as in tho
States.*

The consequences which would follow the apportionment
of the tax in question among the States and Territories of
the Union, in the manner prescribed by the Constitution,
must not be overlooked. They arc very obvious. Where
such corporations are numerous and rich, it might be light;
where none exist, it could not be collected; where they are
few and poor, it would fall upon them with such weight as
to involve annihilation. It cannot be supposed that the
framers of the Constitution intended that any tax should be
apportioned, the collection of which on that principle would
be attended with such results. The consequences are fatal
to the proposition.
To the question under consideration it must be answered,
that the tax to which it relates is not a direct tax, but a duty
or excise; that it was obligatory on the plaintiff to pay it.
The other questions certified up, are deemed to be sufficiently answered by the answers given to the first and sixth
questions.
ANSWERS

ACCORDINGLY.

Loughborough v. Blake, 6 Wheaton, 317.

