EDMONSON

v.

BLOOMSEIRE.

[Sill. Ct.

Statement of the case.

They must also be charged with interest on the balance
found due the complainants, from the day of the sale to the
day of the final decree in this suit.
THE DECREE 'Of the Circuit Court is REVERSED, and the
cause remanded, with directions to proceed in CONFORM[T1
WITH THIS OPINION.

EDMONSON

v. BLOOMSHIRE.

1. If if ii apparent from the record that this court has not acquired jurisdiction of a case for want of proper appeal or writ of error, it will be dismissed, although neither party ask it.
2. An appeal or writ of error which does not bring to this court a transcript
of the record before the expiration of the term to which it is returnable,
is no longer a valid appeal or writ.
3. Although a prayer for an appeal, and its allowance by the court below,
constitute a valid appeal though no bond begiven (the bond being to bgiven with effect at any time while the appeal is in force), yet if ho
transcript is filed in this court at the term next succeeding the allowance of the appeal, it has lost its vitality as an appeal.
. Such vitality cannot be restored by an order of the Circuit Court made
afterwards, accepting a bond made to perfect that appeal. Nor does a
recital in the citation, issued after such order, that the appeal was taken
as of that date, revive the defunct appeal or constitute a new one.

the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of Olhio; the case being thus:
The Judiciary Act provides that final decrees in a circuit
court may be re-examined, reversed, or affirmed i,.re "upon
a writ of error whereto shall be annexed and returned therewith, at the day and place therein mentioned, an authenticated transcript of the record, an assignment of errors, and
prtyer for reversal, with a citation to the adverse party."
It further enacts that " writs of error shall not be brought
but within five years after rendering or passing the judgment
or decree complained of, or in case the person entitled to
APPEAL from

such writ of error be afeme covert, &c., then within five years

as aforesaid, exclusive of the time of such disability."

Dec. 1868.]

EDMONSON v. BLOOMSHIRE.
Statement of the case.

By an amendatory act, appeals in cases of equity are allowed "subject to the same rules, regulations, and restrictions as are prescribed in law in case of writs of error."
With these provisions of law in force, John Edmonson,
Littleton Waddell and Elizabeth, his wife, filed a bill in 1854
in the court below, against Bloomshire and others, to compel
a release of title to certain lands, and on the 16th July, 1859,
the bill was finally dismissed. On the 26th May "an appeal
to the Supreme Court of the United States was allowed,"
and the appellants ordered to give bond in $1000. No further step was taken in the case till November 14, 1865, when
*apetition was filed in the Circuit Court, reciting the decree,
and the allowance (May 26, 1860) of the appeal, and setting
forth the death of the plaintiff Edmonson, intestate, on the
80th June, 1862, leaving a part of the petitioners his only
heirs-at-law; and that, on the 20th June, 1864, the plaintiff
Elizabeth Waddell also died intestate, leaving the other petitioners her only heirs-at-law, and that the interest of said intestates had descended to said petitioners as their respective
heirs-at-law; ?nd further setting forth, that no appeal-bond
had been given under said order allowing the appeal. The
prayer of the petition was that the petitioners be allowed
"to become parties to the appeal, and to perfect the same
by now entering into bond for the appeal."
Thereupon, on the same 14th November, 1865, this entry
was made by the court:
WADDELL, Emn.oNsoN et al,
v.
BLOOMSiiRE et al.

426.--Petitionto perfect appeal.

"And now come the said petitioners, and the court being satisfied that the facts set forth in said petition are true, and that

the prayer thereof ought to be granted, do order that said pe.
titioners [naming the heirs of Edinonson], be admitted as parties plaintiff, in the place of said John Edmonson, deceased; and
that the said [naming the heirs of M{'s. Waddell], be admitted
as parties plaintiff in the place of the said Elizabeth Waddell.
dereased; and that said petitioners have leave to pcrfect said

EDBIONSON v. BLOOISHIRE.

[Sup. CL,

Argument against the dismissal.

appeal so allowed at the June Term, 1859, of this court, by giving
bond in the sum of $1000, as therein provided."
An appeal-bond was accordingly filed with, and approved
by, the clerk, November 22, 1865. A citation (duly served)
was issued on the 8th December, 1865, reciting the allowance
of an appeal at the October Term, 1865, of the court, and citing
the appellees to appear "at the next term of the Supreme
Court, to be holden on the first Monday of December next."
The transcript was filed here by the appellants for the first
time on the 3d of January, 1866.
The case having been fully argued on the merits by Messrs.
Stanbery and Baldwin, for the appellants, and by .Mr. J. W.
.Robinson, by brief, contra, it was suggested from the bench
that doubts were entertained by it as to the jrisdiction of
the court over the case; the ground of the doubt, as the reporter understood it, being, that while the record showed
that the only appeal asked for or allowed, was that of May
26th, 1860, the transcript was not filed during-the term next
succeeding the allowance of the appeal, nor till January,
1866; and thus that while the appeal had been taken in time
the record had not been filed here in time to save it.
M7fr. Stanbery now spoke in support of the jurisdiction:
The objection to the regularity of the appeal, he contended,
comes too late, and hadnot been made by counsel. The case
had been pending in this court more than three years. It
had been fully argued on the merits by both parties. No
motion bad at any time been made by the appellees to dismiss it for any irregularity. The practice he believed to
have been uniform to require a motion to dismiss before the
case proceeds to a hearing.*
The appeal initiated in 1860 was not perfected until the
order of November 14, 1865, when the bond was given. Till
that last date there was, in fact, no appeal which required
the traf'script to be filed. When the appeal was allowed, all
that remained to be done was to perfect the appeal so taken
*Mandeville

v. Riggs. 2 Peters, 490; Brooks v. Norris, 11 Howard, 204.

Dec. 1868.]

EDMONSON V. BLOOMSHIRE.
Opinion of the court.

by giving bond and filing the transcript in this court, which
might be done by order of court after expiration of five
years. In The .Dos .Hernanos*it is said:
"It appears that the appeal was prayed for within the five
years, and was actually allowed by the court within that period.
It is true that the security required by law was not given until
after the lapse of the five years; and under such circumstances.
the court might have disallowed the appeal ,and refused the security. But, as the court accepted it, it must be considered as

a sufficient compliance with the order of the court, and that it
had relation back to the time of the allowance of the appeal."
This is obr case.
If this is not so, a new appeal may be regarded as having
been taken by the proceedings of November, 1865. The citation recites them as being the-allowance of an appeal.
If any doubt was entertained by the court as to the efficiency of the appeal, because more than five years elapsed
after the decree before the appeal-bold was given and transcript filed in this court, it is to be observed that Mrs. Waddell, the party entitled to an appeal, was under coverture at
the date of the decree, qnd at the time of her death, June
20, 1864. The appeal was saved as to her heirs. Moreover, her interest was so -connected with that of her coplaintiff, Edmonson, that it is also saved as to him or his
heirs.t
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
In the cases of Viltabolos v. United States, and United States
v. Curry, decided at the December Term, 1847, and especially
in the latter case, it was held, on full consideration, that:
whether a case was attempted to'be brought to this court by
writ of error, or appeal, the record must be filed before the
end of the term next succeeding the issue of the writ or the
allowance of the appeal, or the court had no jurisdiction of
* 10 Wheaton, 306.

t Owings v. Kincannon, 7 Peters, 399; Williams v. Bank of the United.
"States, 11 Wheaton, 414; Meese v. Keefe, 10 Ohio, 362.

EDMONSON V. BLOOMSHIRE.

[Sup. Or,

Opinion of the court.

the case. This was repeated in the Steamer Virgida v. West,*
Mesa v. United States,t and United States v. Gomez..
In Castro v. United States,ยง the same question was raised.
Th6 importance of the ease, together with other considerations, induced the court to consider the matter again at some
length. Accordingly, the present Chief Justice delivered
ani opinion, in the course of which the former cases are considered and the ground of the rule distinctly stated.
Other cases followed that, and inlMussina v. Gavazos, decided at the last term, the whole doctrine is again reviewed,
and the rule placed distinctly on the ground that this court
has no jurisdiction of the case unless the transcript be filed
during the term next succeeding the allowance of the appeal. The intelligible ground of this decision is, that the
writ of error and the appeal are the foundations of our jurisdiction, without which we have no right to revise the action
of the inferior court; that the writ of error, like all other
common law writs, becomes functus officio unless some return
is made to it during the term of court to which it is return

able; that the act of 1803, which first allowed appeals to
this court, declared that they should be subject to the same
rules, regulations, and restrictions, as are prescribed in law,
in writs of error. These principles have received the unaninious approval of this court, and have been acted upon in
a large number of cases not reported, besides several reported cases not here mentioned. And the court has never
hesitated to act on this rule whenever it has appeared from
the record that the case came within it, although no moticn
to dismiss was made by either party. In fact, treating it as
a matter involving the jurisdiction of the court, we cannot
do otherwise.
In the case of United States v. Curry, Chief Justice Taney,
answering the objection that the rule was extremely technical, replied, that nothing could be treated by this court as
merely technical, and for that reason be disregarded, which
19 Howard, 182.
1 Wallace, 690.

t 2 Black, 721.
3 Wallace, 46.

Dec. 1868.]

EDMONSON v. BLOOMSHIRE.

Opinion of the court.

was prescribed by Congress as the mode of exercising the
court's appellate jurisdicticn." We make the same observavation now, and add, that it is better, if the rule is deemed
unwise or inconvenient, to resort to the legislature fbr its
correction, than that the court should depart from. its settled
course of action for a quarter of a century.
We are of opinion that the present case fallsr within the
principle of these decisions. The only appeal that this record
shows to have been either asked for or allowed, was that of
May 26, 1860. The transcript was not filed during the term
next succeeding the allowance of this appeal, nor until January, 1866.
Two grounds are assigned as taking the case out of the
rule we have stated.
1. It is said that the appeal of 1860 was not perfected
until the bond was given under the order of November 14,
1865, and that until this was done there was in fact no appeal whidh required the transcript to be filed.
The answer to this is, that the prayer for the appeal, and
the order allowing it, constituted a valid appeal. The bond
was not essential to it. It could have been given here, and
cases have been brought here where no bbid was approved
by the court below, and the court has permitted the appellant to give bond in this court.* In the case of Seymour v.
Freer,t the Chief Justice says, that if, through .mistake or
accident, no bond or a defective bond had been filed, this
court would not dismiss the appeal, but would permit a bond
to be given here. And in all cases where the government
is appellant, no bond is required. It is not, therefore, an indispensable part of an appeal that a bond should be filed;
and the appeal in this case must be held as taken on the 26th
day of May, 1860.
It is insisted that this view is in conflict with the case
of The Dos -ermanos.$ We do not think so. While the
argument of counsel on the merits in that case is fully re* Ex parte Milwaukee Railroad Company, 5 Wallace, 188.
$ 10 Wheaton, 306.
t 5 Wallace, 822.

EDMONSON V. BLOOMSHIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ported, we have nothing from them on the motion to dismiss.
The opinion of the court states that the question made was
whether the appeal was in due time, and this is answered
by saying, it was prayed and allowed within five years from
the date of the decree. The appeal was, therefore, taken in
due time. It is further said, that the fact that the bond was
given after the expiration of the five years, did not vitiate
the appeal. This is in full accord with what we have just
stated. The bond may be given with effect at any time
while the appeal is alive. There is no question made in the
present case about the appeal being taken within time. It
was taken in time. But the record was not filed in the court
in time to save the appeal; and that question was not made
or thought of in the Dos Hermanos case. It is perfectly
consistent with all that we know of that case, and, indeed,
probable, that, though the taking of the appeal was delayed
until near the expiration of the five years,#nd filing the
bond until after that period, the transcript was filed at the
next term after the appeal was taken.
2. It is next insisted that a new appeal was taken by the
proceedings of the 14th November, 1865.
This, however, is in direct contradiction of the record.
The petition of appellants, after reciting the former decree
and the order allowing the appeal of May 26, 1860, and the
death of some of the plaintiff- in the suit, and that no appeal-bond had been given, concludes as foillows: "Your
petitioners now appear, and pray your honors to allow them
to become parties to said appeal, and to perfect the same by
now entering into a bond for the appeal." And the order
made is, "tbat said petitioners have leave to perfect said
appeal, so allowed at the June Term, 1859, of this court, by
giving bond, &c." The only appeal referred to in the petition, or the order of the court, is the appeal allowed May,
1860, and no language is used in either which refers to a
new appeal, or which is consistent with such an idea.
It is true that the citation speaks of the allowance of the
appeal as obtained at the October Terin, 1865, but this recital
does not prove that an appeal was then allowed, when it

Dec. 1868.]

BENBOW V. IOWA CITY.
Stptement of the case.

stands unsupported by the record. Still less'can it be permitted to contradict what the record states t6 have been
done on that subject, at that time.
In the case of United States v. Curry, the same facts almost
precisely were relied on as constituting a second appeal, that
exist in this case, including the misrecital in the citation.
But the court says, "that after very carefully considering
the order, no just construction of itslanguage will authorize
-us to regard it as a second appeal. The citation, which
afterwards issued in Augusty 1847, balls this order an'appeal,
and speaks of it as an appeal granted on the day it bears
date. But this description in the citation cannot change the
meaning of the language used in the order." That is precisely the case before us, and we think the ruling a sound one.
The appeal must, for these reasons, be

DISMISSED.

But, we

may add, that for Anything we have been able 'to discover in
this record, the appellants have the same right-now, whatever
that may be, to take a new appeal, that they had in NVovember, 1865, when the unsuccessful effort was made to revive
the first one.

BENBOW

V.

IOWA CITY.

A return to a mandamus ordering a municipal corporation forthwith to levy
a specific tax upon the taxable property of a city for the year 1865, sufficient to pay a judgment specified, collect the tax and pay the same, or
show cause to fhe contrary by the next term of the court, is not answered
by a return that the defendants, "in obedience to the order of the court,
did proceed to levy a tax of one per cent. upon the taxable property cf
the said city, for the purpose of paying the judgment named in the information, and ot4er claims, and that-the said tax is sufficient in amount
to pay the said judgment and other claims for the payment of'which it'
was levied." The return should have disclosed the whole act constituting the levy, so as to enable the court to determine whether it wassufficient to pay the judgment of the relator., It was also erroneous in returning that the tax was levied to pay this judgment "ahd other claims."

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Iowa.

Benbow recovered judgment on the coupons attached'to
certain bonds which Iowa City issued to pay its subscription

