THE GRACE GIRDLER.

. Sup. Ct

Statement of thd case.

THE GRACE GIRDLER.
1. Although the rules of navigation require that a vessel coming up behind
another, and on the same course with her, shall keep out of the way, yet
the rule presupposes that the other vessel keeps her course, and it is not
to be applied irrespective of the circumstances which may render a departure from it necessary to avoid immediAte danzer.
2. Where, in case of collision, with loss, there is reasonable doubt as to which
party is to blame, the loss must be sustained by the one on which it has
fallen.
3. This court will not readily reverse in a case of collision, depending on 'a
mere difference of opinion as to the weight and effect of conflicting testimony, where both the bistrict and Circuit Courts have agreed, It
atfirmed, accordingly, a decree in such a case.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of New York. in a case of collision, the question being one

largely.of fact; and the case being submitted.
Messrs. Carlisle and C. N. Black, for the appellants; 11Ir.
O' Donohue, contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE stated the -case and delivered the
opinion of the court.
.This is a case of collision. It occurred, on the East River,
in the afternoon of the 5th of August, 1863, between the
Vacht Ariel and the schooner Grace Girdlee. Both vessels
were beating down the river to the bay. The yacht had
made her long tack, and had gone about near th, New York
shore, and'was standing upon her short tack across the river.
The schooner had done the same things, and was standing
it) the same direction. In going about she had passed to the
windward' of the yacht, and held that position in her short
tack. The yacht was to the leeward, and a very little way
in advance. As she was beginning to make headway, the
approach of a steam ferry-bpat coming up the river compelled her suddenly to luff three or four points in order to get
out of the way. This threw her unexpectedly in the way of
the schooner, and was the proximate cause of the collision.

"'Dec. U868:1 "'-

-THE GRACE GIRDLER.
.q-fAentof the ase.

The vessels came together, and the yacht was sunk and lost.
Thp locality of the c6llision was opposite to the foot of Stanton or Grand Street, in' the city of New York, and about onethird of the way across the river.
So far both sides agree as to the facts, but no further. Here
-begins the stress of the case, and the antagonists in the tes-timony of the parties gather around it.
The libellants allege that the schooner was wholly in fault.,,
They say that she ought not to have been so near the yacht;
that she ought to have seen the danger to the yacht from
the approach of the ferry-boat, and seeing it, ought immediately to have luffed, to get more to the windward; and that
if she had done so, the accident would not have occurred.
They'insist that the schooner, being so nearly in the track
of the yacht, and in such close proximity, it.was her duty to
exercise the greatest vigilance,' and to omit no precaution
against danger.
The respondents insist that there was no fault on the part
- of the schooner; thatwhen the yacht suddenly came into her
path to avoid the ferry-boat; the schooner, if not in stays, had
so little headway on that she was powerless to change her
course, or to do anything else to prevent the two vessels from
coming in contact. In behalf of the schooner there is testimony to the effect that the yacht, havi'ng escaped the ferryboat by luffing, should have luffed still more tp avoid the
schooner, and that if she had performed this simple and 'obvious duty, the collision could not have occurred.
The schooner was thoroughly manned. The captain was
an experienced seaman. A regular Hurlgate pilot was at
the helm.
A pleasure-party vas on board the yacht. Lockwood, the
captain, was the superintendent of an oil warehouse. He had
served as a; seaman during a voyage to California in 1849.,
He had no other nautical experience. Slavin was the sailingHe was twenty-two years of age, and had some exmaster.
t.
perience a6 a sailor. He "had been, off and on, five or six
years, sailing-master of those small vesiels about New York,"
and "had been on the Ariel si± or seven weeks at that time."

THE GRAOE GIRDLER.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

Before he went upon the yacht he had been at work for
Lockwood in an oil factory. Lockwood, in his deposition,
says, "All on board were gents but Slavin and an extra hand."
The testimony of the extra hand has not been taken, and it
is not showA who he was, what were his qualifications, or in
what capacity he served. It does not appear that any onp
was charged *ith the duty of a look-out. Lockwood, the cap
tain, was at the helm. He says:
"The schooner made a longer tack than I, and followed on
neihrly in our track-a little to the southward. Before I- got
across the steam ferry-boat Cayuga crossed track on my bow. I
luffed a little up to avoid a collision with her, and as I was filling
away again, the Grace Girdler came up behind and struck me
astern. Her jib-boom went into riy mainsail. We had got about
first, and she was about one hundred feet behind us when she
got about. I did not pay any particular attention to her, as I
wAs watching the ferry-boat. When I .got clear of the latter,
then I saw the Grace Girdler coming down upon us. Mr.Slavin,
the sailing-master, hailed her three time's, but received no answer.
She was not further than this room from us when I saw she was
coming down on to us. When I saw she was coming I put my
helm, hard up, expecting she would go off to the windward of
me. I also let go my main sheet, to let my vessel run off beforo
the wind; but she hit me before she (the yacht) run off....
She could have cleared me by coming up into the wind. ...
The ferry-boat was from fifty to seventy-five feet from me. She
was bound to Williamsburg, and crossed.my bow, and I came
within fifteen or twenty feet of hitting her, notwithst.anding I
luffed. . . . 1 did not suppose it necessary to act to avoid the ferryboat till she got n1ear us. I luffed three or four points, and continued that long enough to let her run by."
From this testimony it appears that no very great vigilance
was exercised on the yacht to supply tl~e place of a look-out,
and that the judgment formed by the captain as to the danger involved in the approach of the steamer was by no means
accurate.
The chief fault attributed to the schooner is, that she did
not luff into the wind and avoid the yacht by passing to the

ec. 168,]

THE GAUOE. GIRDLER.'

199

Stateipept-of the ease.

windward. It is not denied that the.schooner was to the.
windward after running out her long tack and coming about,
nor that she would have avoided the yacht if the yacht had"
not thrown herself in the 'vay of the schooner to avoid the
ferry-boat.
Horton, the pilot of the schooner, had been a Hurlgate
pilot for sixteen years. He says:
"After we went about, we drawed away our jibs, let up anything forward ; saw the yacht to the leeward, about fifty yards
on bur lee quarter, dead to thb lee quarter. She kept hauling
up and nearing us all the while, and, we was motionless atthe
time, and L told them on the yacht to slack the main sheet, but
,they paid no attention to me, and came right up to our lee bow
in' contrct with our jib-boom, which hooked his mainsail. We
had not got under headway at the time of the collision. Our
jibs had not filled. We could not have done anything in our
condition to avoid it. -The helm was to the leeward, in the lee-,
becket dover. When we got around so that the jibs took; Iput"
my helm down."'
This testimony, if credible, vindicates the schooner and
fastens the blame upon the yacht. Perhaps, the reason why
the warning of the pilot was not heeded was, that the officers
of'the yacht had not recovered from the perturbation produced by their narrow escape from the ferry-boat, and that,
there was no look-out to give notice of the dangerous prox.
imity of the schooner, induced by the new position which
the yacht hqd been compelled to assume. The statement
of the pilot is fully sustained by the captain and- several of
the crew of the schooner who were examined. They all
aver that she had qo little headway that nothing could be
done on her part to avert the collision.
The sailing-master and gentlemen on the yacht -sustain,
more or less fully the facts stated by Captain Lockwood.
As usual, those on board on each side acquit their own and
'condemn the othe vessel. The statement of Lockwood is
also sustained by McQueen, the pilot of the Cayuga, and by
Goodby, the pilot of the Peck Slip ferry-boats. They saw

THE GRACE GIRDLER.

[Sfip. Ct

Opinion of the court.

the collision-inculpate the schooner and exculpate -the
yacht.
On the other hand, Captain Barber, of the schooner Jenny
Lind, who was near at hand and saw everything that occurred, exonerates the schooner and casts the entire responsibilify upon the yacht. Such also is the effect of the testimouy of Gilbert, a pilot on the Hunter's Point line of boats.
He too was a spectator. Captain Barber says:
"I have followed the water eighteen years; and now am master of a vessel. Know the Grace Girdler. I live in Westerly.
My vessel belongs to Stonington. I was on the schooner Jenny
Lind the day of the collision. We went about somewhere near
the coal-yard of the Penn Coal Company at Williamsburg. After
we went about we were in the wake of the yacht and the Grace
Girdler. All three of us were standing toward New York side.
As I was walking back and forth on'my deck, l saw the yacht
a little ahead of the Grace Girdler. As the latter came up with
the yacht she kept off a little to go under her lee to clear her
quarter. The yacht was a little ah'ead and tacked first, and the
Grace Girdler rounded her and came up to the windward. The
yacht made headway. The schooner payed off some, and her
jib was shaking all the time until they went clear. I don't see
as the Grace Girdler could do anything to prevent this collision,
as her head sails were shaking and her gaff topsails and mainsail full. The schooner's foxe sheets were all slacked up and
she payed off and hooked into the yacht. The pchooner had no
command of herself. The yacht was not ahead at all after I saw
them. I did not see the yacht sink. Saw the schooner sag off
on to her. The yacht ought to have gone around the schooner's
stern or started a sheet and gone off on the other hand."
No one had a better opportunity of seeing and understanding all that occurred than this witness, and there is,none
whose testimony we deem entitled to more weight. There
is no impeaching, testimony. The witnesses upon each vessel must have known the condition of things and what occurred there. Unless we impute perjury, which we see no
reason to do, they are entitled to credence as to this class of
facts. A.s to what occurred upon the other vessel they are

Dec. 1868.]

T.
Tim

AcE GiADL'R.

Opinion of the court.

liable to be mistaken, and their testimony is entitled to lee
weight than the testimony of witnesses who were present.
* In respect to the yacht, we pass by the inquiries whether
she was properly manned, whether she had a sufficient lookout, and whether by due vigilance and good seananship she
might not at her leisure 'have given the ferry-boat a safe
berth, and thus have avoided the necessity of placing herself,
as it were by a leap, across the bows of the schooner. These,
points have not been pressed upon. our attention by the
learned counsel for the appellants, and in the view which
we take of the case their soluion is n'ot necessary to its
proper determination. The testimony of those on board of
the yacht proves clearly that all was done in the emergency
that was practicable and proper. If there was any omission,
under the circumstances it was an error and not a fault. In
the eye of the law the former does not rise to the grade of
the litter, and 'is always venial.* For the purposes of this
case we hold that the yacht was blameless. But she sud=
,deqly thrust herself before the schooner, and took the latter
by surprise. If the testimony of the pilot, captain, and crew
of the schooner Ibe true, it is indisputable, as is insisted by the
appellafits, that she had then so little headway as to be impotent to do'anything to prevent the impending catastrophe.
Her helm was kept where it s'hould have been to have the
greatest effect in turning her head more to the windward.
Her jib might have been lowered, to give greater effect to
the wind upon- the sails in the after-part of the vessel; but
if, as the proof is, it was shaking at the time, this could have
had no effect, and would havebeen useless. This t~stimony
shows that the schooner, as to this part of the case, was also
free from fault. The superadded testimony of Barber and
Gilbert leave no room for doubt in our minds upon the subject. ' The loss of the yacht was not produced by a blow
from the schooner, but by.the jib-boom of the schooner running through her mainsail, and turningher so far upon her
Reeves v. The Cqnstitution, Gilpin, 687, N. Y. L. & S. Co. v. Rumb.-.
B
21 Howara, 883; Propeller Genesee Chief v. Fitzhugh et al., 12 Id. 461 ;

'THE GRACE (-IRDLER.

[Sup. Ot

Opinion 'of the court.

side that she filled with water. As soon as her jib-stay was
cut loose from the anchor of the schooner, she sunk.
But it is insisted that the schooner is blamable for nothaving provided in advance for the contingencies of the approach of the ferry-boat to the yacht, and the sudden transit
of the latter to the windward. To this there are two answers.
First. The schooner came about near the New York shore,
under the stern of the yacht, and was 'passing to the wind.ward of her. Lockwood-expected the schooner to pass on
that side. The witnesses on both sides agree that she was
there when the yacht lufied and changed her course three or
four points in the same direction to escape the ferry-boat.
It is not denied by any one that but for this there would
have been ample room, between them for both to pass in
safety. There is no proof that it was in the power of the
schooner to put herself any further to the windward than
sh4 Was. We suppose it will not be insisted that the schooner
was bound to stop before running out her long tack, or to
make it longer.
Secondly. The case made against the schooner is contained
in the fourth article of the libel. The charges set forth are
confined to omissions at the time of the collision or immediately preceding it. Neither in the pleadings nor proofs is
fault charged at any other time. It is nowhere charged or
proved that it was the duty of the schooner to have foreseen
the contingencies which caused the collision, or to have made
any provision against them. The record before us is a blank
.as to that subject.
It is not intended to impugn anything said by this court
in the case of Whilridge et al. v. Dill et al.* as to the rules
which should govern a vessel behind another and pursuing
the same course. This case is plainly distinguishable from
it in several particulars. It is sufficient to mention one of
them. In that case there was no sudden change by the leading vessel to a course across the bows of the one behind her.
That is the controlling fact in the case under consideration
* 23 Howard, 448.

Dec. 1868.1 -

THE' GihACE 'GIRDLER,

Opinion of the court.

The appQllants have inyoked the aid of the act of Congress"
of April 29, 1864, "fixing ruled and regulations for preventing collisions on the water." The 17th article does, as
suggested, provide "that every vessel bertalking another
vessel shall keep out of the way. of-the said last-mentioned
vessel." But thQ 18th article provides, subject to certain
qualifications, ttat the other vessel shall keep he course;
while the 19th a-id 20th provide tlat due regard shall be
had to the circuinstaffces which may render a departure fromthe rules prescribed necessary in order ,to avoid immediate
danger, and that nothing in the act shall warrant the neglect
of any proper precaution, or excuse the fault of bad seamauship, under any circumstances that may occur.
It would be a strange result if the statute should make an
innocent vessel liable for an inevitable accident.
In order to recover ull indemnity it is necessary that the
suffering vessel should be without fault. Generally the bur,den-of proof ,rests upon the libellants. Where fault is-showl
on the part of the damaging vessel, it is incumbent on her to
show that such fault had in no degree the relation of cause
and effect to, the accident.*
Inevitable accident is where a vessel is pursuing alawful
avocation ina lawful manner, using the proper precautions
againstt danger, and an accident 'occurs. The highest' degree of caution that can be used is not required. It is
enough that it is reasonable under the circumstanees-such
as is usual in similar cases, and has been found by long experience to be sufficient to answer the end in.view-tle"
safety of life and property.t Where there is a reasonable.
doubt as to which party is to blame, the loss must be sus
tained by the party on' whom it has fallen.$
I The case of The Thornley,§ though unlike this case 'in its
facts, hag one point of resemblance which renders it worthy
of attention. That vessel, while "forging" her way throughv.Clarke, 5 Howard, 441.
j The Europa, 14 Jurist, 629; The Virgil,.2 W. Robinsop, 205; The Lochlibo, 3.Id. 318; Th6 W. V. Moses, 6 Mitchell's Maritime Register, 155.
7 Jurist, 659.
J The Catherine of Dover, 2 Haggard, 154.
*Waring

THE

GRACE GIRDLR.

rSup. ct

Dissent of the Chief Justice, and Clifford and Davis, JJ.

the Nore Sands, was hailed by the Mentor, a vessel at anchor
near them, to come to anchor. She could' not then do so
without danger of destruction. Very soon after she passed
the Sands a collision occurred. She alleged that it was an
ineitable accident. It was. objected (1) that she should
have anchored instead of passing the Sands, and (2) that she
should have anchored as sQon as she passed them. The
Trinity Masters said: "We consider the collision accidental.
She could not let go her anchor until clear of the Sands; if
iri
this case she had let go her anchor, immediately on being
clear, the collision would still have.'occurred." Dr. Lushington, took that view of the case, and pronounced against
the claim of the libellants. His judgment proceeded upon
the ground that the Thornley was powerless to prevent the ceident. The point that she should have anchored before attempting to pass the Sands was not noticed.
There is another feature of the case before us, to which it
is proper to refer. The District Court acquitted the schooner
and dismissed the libel. The libellants appealed to the Circuit Court. That court affirmed the decree. The case is
now here by a second-appeal. This court ought not to reverse upon a mere difference of opinion as to the weight
anId efect of conflicting testimony. To warrant a reversal
it must be clear that the lower courts have committed a"
error, and that a wrong has been done to the appellants.*
This is not a case of that character. If it were now before
us for decision the first time, although our minds are not
entirely free from doubt, we could not come to any other
conclusion than the one we have announced.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice DAVIS (with whom concurred the CHIEF
JUSTICE and Mr. Justice CLIFFORD), dissenting:
I dissent from the opinion in this case. I think the rules
* Walsh v. Rogers, 13 Howard, 284; The Marcellus, 1 Black, 414; Ib.
The Water Witch, 494; The Grafton, 1 Blatchford, 173; lb., The Narragansett, 211; Cu-hman v. Ryan, 1 Story, 96; lb., Bearse v. Pigs, &c., 322;
Tracey v. Sac.ket, I 0hic State, 54.

Dec. 1.868.]

:BROWN V. PIERC&E
Statement of the case.

of navigation require that a vessel coming up behi nd on the
same course as the vessel before her, is bound to. keep'out
of the way, and I cannot agree that the collision wa -the
result of inevitable accident, as it occurred in thle dayinie,'
on smooth water,'and in fair weather.

BROWN V. PIERCE.
1. Where a bill, alleging a good title to lands in a complainant, and setting
forth, particularly, the nature of it, sought to have E conveyance made
by 'duress annulled, and the land reconveyed free from the lien of judgments obtained against the grantee after the conveyance, an aniver by.
the judgment 'creditor, setting up in general terms a good title in the
grantee, on the representation and faith of which le had lent such
grantee money, must be taken as referring to the title derived under'
the deed in controversy. And this though there have been no replication to the answer.
2: Where, in such a bilf, the complainant,'by way'of affecting the judgment
ci slitor with notice, sets forth'that he, the complainant, was never out"
'aripossession of the land, an answer, averring in general terms that the
respondent was informed and believed that the complainant entered as
tenant of the grantee, but not specifying any time or circumstances
of such entry, rior assigning any reason for not sp ecifying them, is insufflicient and evasive; there being nothing alleged which tended to
show that the grantee ever. pretended to have any other title than tbat'
derived from the complainant, or that there was any title elsewhere.
8. A deed procured through fear.of loss of life, produced by threats of the,
grantee, may be avoided for duress.
4. A judgment being but a general lien, and the creditor'under it obtaining
no incumbrance but oil such estate as his debtor really had, the equity
of such-creditor gives way before the superior right of an owner in the
land who had conveyed the'land to the debtor only by duress; and who
had never parted with possessi

ERROR to the Supreme Court of lNebraska Territory.
Brown filed his bill in September, 1860, in the court below
against three persons, Pierce, Morton, and Weston, alleging
that in the spring of 1857, he settled upon and improved a
tract of land near Omaha; that he erected a house oh'the
tract- and- continued to, occupy it until August .10th, 1857,
when .he entered the tract under the pre-emption laws of the

