262

RAILROAD COMPANY V. JACKSON.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

Mr. Justice MILLER, dissenting.
I believe the judgment of the court below was right, because I understand th original contract to have been an
agreement to pay in English guineas, as a commodity, and

their value was, therefore, properly computed in the legal
tender notes which by law would satisfy the judgment.
I cannot agree to the opinion, for the reasons given in my
dissent in the case of Bronson v. Bodes.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. JACKSON.
1. A State has no power to tax the interest of bonds (secured in this case by
mortgage) given by a railroad corporation, and binding every part of
the road, when the road lies partially in another State;-one road incorporated by the two States.
2. The Internal Revenue Act of June 30th, 1864, does not lay a tax on the
income of a non-resident alien, arising from bonds held by him of a
railroad company incorporated by States of the Union, and situated in
them.

to the Circuit Court for the District of Maryland.
The State of Pennsylvania, by certain acts, as expounded
by the Supreme Court of that State,* taxed "money owing
by solvent debtors, whether by promissory note, penal or
single bill, bond or judgment," imposing three mills on the
dollar of the principal, payable out of the interest. And
where the money was due by a railroad corporation, they
made it the duty of the president, or other officer of the
company who paid the coupons or interest to the holder,
to retain the amount of the tax.
The United States, also, by certain acts, laid what is
known as the income tax.
The first tax of this kind was imposed by the act of Congress passed August 5th, 1861.t The 49th section of that
act directed that there should be levied and collected upon
ERROR

*Maltby

v. Railroad Company, 62 Pennsylvania State, 140.

t 12 Stat. at Large, 309.

Dec. 1868.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. JACKSON.

. 263

Statement of the case.

the annual income of every person residing in the United States,
from whatever source derived, a tax of 8 per cent. on the'
amount of the excess of such income over $800; and upon
the income, rents, or d ividends, accruing upon property, &c.,
owned in the United States by any citizen residing abroad,*
a tax of. 5 per cent.
The next act was passed July 1st, 1862,* and the 90th
section of it directed that there should be levied and collected a tax of 3 per dent. on the annual income of every
person residing in the United States, over $600 and under
$10,000; and when exceeding $10,000, a tax of 5 per cent.;
and upon the income of citizens residing abroad, a tax of
5 per cent. The next section provided that the portion of
income derived from interest on bonds, or other evidences
of indebtedness of any railroad company, which should have
been assessed and paid by said companies, should be deducted from that prescribed in the previous section; and
the 81st section, directed that this tax on the bonds and
evidences of indebtedness should be paid by the companies,
and that they might deduct the same on the payment of
interest to the bondholders.
The next act-one more particularly bearing on one part
of this case-was that of June 30th, 1864.t This act directed the levy and collection of a tax of 5 per cent. upon
the excess of income of every person residing*in the United
States, or of any. citizen residing abroad, over $600 and under
$5000; 7j per cent. over $5000 and not exceeding $10,000;
and a tax of 10 per cent. over $10,000. Subsequent sectionsT
provided for the deduction from all payments on account
of interest arising out of bonds of railroad companies, as
in the act of July 1st, 1862, and enacted that the payment
by the company of the said duty so deducted from the interest, should discharge the company from that amount of
interest on the bonds "so held by any person or persons
whatever," except where the companies might have contracted otherwise.
* 12 Stat. at Large. 473.

t 13 Ib. 281,

116.

$ H 117, 1M2

RAILROAD

COMPANY V.

JACKSON.

[Slip. Ct

Statement of the case.

In this state of the statutes of Pennsylvania and of the
United States, Jackson, an alien resident in Ireland, brought
suit, in the court below, against the Northern Central Railway Company, a company incorporated by the State of Maryland, to recover the amount of certain coupons attached to
bonds issued by the company and held by him. The form
of them was as follows:
"The Northern Central Railway Company will pay to the
bearer, January 1, 1865, thirty dollars, being a half year's interest on bond No. 1827, for one thousand dollars.
" J. S. LIEB, Treasurer."

The plaintiff proved a demand of payment, at the company's office in Baltimore (where the coupons were payable), and that the company offered to pay the amount of
them, deducting a tax of 5 per cent. per annum to the United
St ,tes, under the acts of Congress; and a further tax of
three mills per dollar of the principal of each bond asserted
to be due to the State of Pennsylvania, but would not pay
more. Offer of such payment was refused. He also gave
in evidence charters incorporating the Northern Central
Railway Company by the State of Maryland, aid by that
of Pennsylvania, and rested.
The defendant then gave in evidence the articles of consolidation of four railroad companies, one of which had
been incorporated by the State of Maryland, and the three
others by the State of Pennsylvania; embracing a line of
road extending from Baltimore, in Maryland, to Sunbury,
in Pennsylvania, about a third or fourth of the whole road
only being in the former State.
This consolidation was entered into by the respective conpanies in pursuance of acts of the legislatures of the twc(
States; and by meaus of them the four companies were
merged in one, called the Northern Central Railway Conipany, and was incorporated by the same name by the legislature of each State. The stockholders of the old companies
received from the new twice the number of shares held by
them in the old, upon the receipt of which the old shares

Dec. 1868.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. JACKSON

265

Argument in support of the ta.,c.

were cancelled, after this company was thus organized and
the directors elected. On the 20th of December, 1855, the
company executed a mortgage to a board of trustees upon
the entire line of its road from Baltimore to Sunbury, ineluding all its property and estate situate within both the
States, which mortgage was given to secure the payment
of $2,500,000 in bonds, to be issued in amounts therein specified. The bonds were issued by the company accordingly.
And it was upon the coupons of a portion of them in the
hands of the plaintiff that this suit was brought.
The court below charged, that if the plaintiff, when he
purchased the bonds, was a British subject resident in Ireland, and now resided there, he was entitled to recover the
amount of the coupons without deductions. It was the correctness of this charge which, after verdict and judgment in
accordance with it,-was the subject of the question here.
Mr. Bernard Carter,for the railroadcompany, appellant, contended, that the State of Pennsylvania, as well as the United
States, had a right to impose the taxes, and the fact that
Jackson was a British subject and resident abroad was unimportant.*
-1
That the taxes in questiou were not taxes on the person
of Jackson, but on his property, which in this case was the
debt due to him, as evidenced by the company's bonds. The
real or personal property of a non-resident alien, would confessedly be a proper subject for taxation, at the place where
it is located, because of the protection and other benefits
conferred upon it by the taxing power. Now the alien in
this case was the holder of bonds the payment of which was
wholly and solely secured to him by property situated here,
and while this government extended its protection and its
laws over the property, out of which those bonds were to be
paid, there was no reason why it should not, for such protection and to the extent of his interest in the property so
McCulloch v. State of Maryland. 4 Wheaton, 429; Providence Bank v,
Billings, 4 Peters, 661; Milne v. Moreton, 12 Wheaton, .358: Harrison v
Sterry, 5 Cranch, 289.

RAILROAD COMPANY V.

JACKSON.

[sup. Vyt

Opinion of the court.

protected and benefited, demand of the plaintiff (although
an alien, and as such excepted from the general income duty
imposed by the one section of the act of 1864), an equivalent
in the shape of the tax imposed by the subsequent sections.
The debt, for the purposes of taxation, had its location here.*
Messrs. W. A. .isher and G. f. Williams, contra, contended,
that the statute of Pennsylvania, rightly construed, did not
tax interest; and that even if it did, that State had no right
to tax the coupons on bonds where both debtor and creditor
were outside her territory, and neither of them her subjects.
Such an attempt would be ultra vires.
Soby the true construction of the internal revenue act
of Congress of June 80th, 1864, that it was not intended to
tax incomes, except of citizens of the United States wherever
resident, and of residents, whether citizens or not; that here,
top, even if Congress had made an attempt to tax the incomes of foreigners resident in their own countries, it would
have been "ultra vires."t A corporation in the United States,
when it borrows money from a foreigner abroad, creates a
debt, whose locality is always the locality of the creditor;
and to tax it, or the annual interest due on it, is to tax
him, resident abroad and not a subject of the taxing power,
for that which, in contemplation of law, is also outside the
country.1 This plainly was illegal.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.

It has been argued for the plaintiff, that the acts of the
legislature of Pennsylvania, when properly interpreted, do
not embrace the bonds or coupons in question; but it is not
important to examine the subject; for, it is not to be denied,
as the courts of the State have expounded these laws, that
they authorize the deduction, and, if no other objection exGordon v. Appeal Tax Court, 8 Howard, 133, 140, 150; Appeal Tax
Cases, 12 Gill & Johnson, 117.
j- McCulloch v. State of Maryland, 4 Wheaton, 429; Union Bank v. The
State, 9 Yerger, 501.
: The Apollon, 9 Wheaton, 370.

Dec. 1868.]

RAILROAD COMPANY

v. JACKSON

267

Opinion of the court.

isted against the tax, the defence would fail. If this was an
open question we should have concurred with the interpretation of the court below, which concurred with the views
of the plaintiff's counsel. Nor shall we inquire rinto the
competency of the legislature of Pennsylvania to impose
this tax, upon general principles, as we shall place the objection upon other and distinct grounds, though we must say,
that the tax upon the promissory note or bond, given by the
resident debtor, and the withholding of the amount from
the interest due to the non-resident holder, would seem to
be a tax Ppon such non-resident. It is not a tax of the
*money lent, because that belongs to the resident debtor, for
which he is taxable; it is a tax on the security, the bond,
which is in the hands of the non-resident holder.
The ground upon which we place the objection in this
case, to the tax is, in brief, that the bonds, amounting to
$2,500,000, of which those" in question are a part, were issued by this company upon the credit of the line of road, its
franchises and fixtures, extending from Baltimore to Sunbury, a given portion of which line lies within the jurisdiction of the State of Maryland. The old company, to which
this line belonged, by the act of consolidation, transferred it,
with its fixtures and all other interests connected therewith,
including their stock, to the new organization which have
issued these bonds. The security therefore pledged and
bound for the payment of them and of the interest embraces
this Maryland portion of the road; 'and-in case of a failure
to pay the principal or interest, this portion with its franchises and fixtures would be liable to sale in satisfaction of
the bonds and interest.
Now, it is apparent, if the State of Pennsylvania is at
liberty to tax these bonds, that, to the extent of. this Maryland portion of the road, she is taxing property and interests
beyond her jurisdiction. This portion avails her tax-roll as
effectually as if it was situate within her own limits. The'
Maryland portion is not liable for the payment of any specified part, or quantity of these bonds thus taxed, but is liable,
with all its interests, for the whole amoupt, the same as that

RAILROAD COMPANY V. JACKSON

L'Slip.

Ct.

Opinion of the court.

portion of the road within the State of Pennsylvania. The
bonds were an issue, in the usual way, by this Northern
Central Railway Company, and the security given by mortgage on the entire line of the road. No portion of the bonds
belong to one part more than to another. No severance was
made of the bonds, and, therefore, none can be made, in the
taxation, with reference to the line within the respective
jurisdictions of the States. If the tax is permitted as it
respects one bond, it must be as it respects all.
Again, if Pennsylvania can tax these bonds, upon the
same principle, Maryland can tax them. This is too apparent to require argument. The only diffirence in the two
cases is, that the line of road is longer within the limits
of the former than within the latter. Her tax would be a
more marked one beyond the jurisdiction of the State, as-the
property and interest outside of its limits would be larger.
a'he consequence of this tax of three mills on the dollar,
if permitted, would be double taxation of the bondholder.
Each State could tax the entire issue of bonds, amounting,
as we have seen, to $2,500,000.
The effect of this taxation upon the bondholder is readily
seen. A tax of three mills per dollar of the principal, at an
interest of six per centum, payable semi-annually, is ten per
centum per annuni of the interest. A tax, thirefore, by
each State, at this rate, amounts to an annual deduction
from the coupons of twenty per centum; and if this consolidation of the line of road had extended into New York
or Ohio, or into both, the deduction would have been thirty
or forty. If Pennsylvania must tax bonds of this description, she must confine it to bonds issued exclusively hy her
own corporations.
Our conclusion on this branch of the case is, that to pernit the deduction of the tax from the coupons in question,
would be giving effect to the acts of the legislature of Pennsylvania upon property and interests lying beyond her juris.
diction.
The next question is, whether or not the coupons were

Dec. 1868.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. JAOKSON.

269

Opinion of Clifford and Swayne, JJ., dissenting.

subject to a tax of five per centum per annum to the United
States on the let of July, 1865, when they became due?
The act in force when the coupons in question fell due,
was the act of June 80, 1864,* and is the one by which the
tax of five per centum claimed on the bonds of the plaintiff
must be determined. The court below held that the act did
not include a non-resident alien, and directed a verdict and
judgment for the whole amount of interest. The decision
was placed mainly on the ground that, looking at the several
provisions bearing upon the question, and giving to them a
reasonable construction, it was believed not to be the intent
of Congress to impose an income tax on non-resident aliens;
that they were not only not included in the description of
persons upon whomIthe tax was imposed, but were impliedly
excluded by confining it to residents of the United States
and citizeni residing abroad, and that the deduction from
the prescribed income of the interest on these railroad bonds,
when paid by the companies, was regarded as simply a mode
of collecti]g thi' part of the income tax. WMe concur in
this view. It is not important, however, to pursue the argument, as Congress has since, in express terms, by the acts
of March 10th, and July 18th, 1866, imposed a tax on alien
non-r6sident bondholders. The question hereafter will be,
not whether the laws embrace the alien non-resident holder,
but whether it is competent for Congress to impose it; upon
-which we express no opinion.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD (with whom concurred Mr. Justice SWAY-E), dissenting:
I dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court in
this case, because I think the taxes in question, both State
and Federal, were legally assessed, and that the officers of
the railway company properly deducted the same from the
amount of the coupons described in the declaration.
*

See au~praj 263.

