Dbec. 1868.]

DURANT

v. 'EssEx

COMPANY.

Statement of the caso.

that whatever might have been fairly within the scope of
the pleadings in the former suit, must be held, as concluded
by the judgment.

In the case before us, the second plea clearly aid dis
tinctly avers that the bonds, which are the foundation of plaintiffs' action, were issued without any good or valuable consideration, and that this fact waa known to the plaintiffs
when they received them. I have examined in vain all the'
pleas filed by defendants in the former suit to discover any
plea which set up thi defence, or which raised such' an issue
that the want of; consideration must have been passed upon
in'deciding the case. Nor can Idiscover any plea under which
it might have been decided. Here, then, is a distinct, suibstantial defence to the bonds sued on, sufficient to defeat
'the action., which was never presented to the court in the.
former action, and therefore, never decided; and I am of
opinion that the former suit did not conclude defendants'
right to have this matter inquired into in this action.

DURANT V.

EssEx COMPANY.

1 A decree dismissing a bill in an. equity suit in the Circuit Court of tae
United States, whichf is absolute in its terms, unless. made upon some
ground which does' not go to the merits, is a final determination of the
controversy, and constitutes a bar to any further litigation of the same
subject between the same parties.,
2. Where ,words of qualification, such as "without prejudice," or other terms
indidating a right or privilege to take further legal proceedings on the,
subject, do not accompany the decree, it is presumed to be rendered "on
the merits.
3. Where the judges of the Supreme Court of the United States are equally
divided'in opinion upon the questiofis of law or fact involved in a case
before the court on appeal or writ.of error, the judgment of affirmance,
which is the judgment rendered in such a case, is as conclusive and
binding in every respect upon the partids as if rendered upon the concurrence of all the judges upon every question involved in ihe case.
APPEAL

from the Circuit Court for the District of Massa-.

chusetts.
The Constitution vests appellate jqrisdiction in the Su-

DURANT V. ESSEX COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

preme Court under such regulations as Congress shall make,.
and Congress, by the act of March 3, 1803, authorizing appeals, pfovides that "the said Supreme Court shall be, and
hereby is, authorized and required to 'receive, hear, and
determine such appeals."
With these provisions in force, Durant filed a bill, in October, 1847, against the Essex Company, seeking to hold it
liable for certain real estate. The bill was finally "dismissed." An appeal was taken to this court, where, after
hearing the case, the judges were equally divided in opinion;
and in conformity with the practice of the court 'in such
cases it ordered that the decree of the court "be affirmed
with costs."
The complainant, conceiving that as the judgment in this
court was by a bench'equally divided, there had been no
decision of his case by the court of last resort, filed another
bill-the bill in the court below-for the same relief in the
same matter as he had filed the one~before.
The defendant pleaded that the former suit and decree in
this court--which the plea averred were made after testimony was taken on both sides, and the case heard on its
metits and argued by counsel-were a bar to the present
bill. This was determined by the court below to be so; and
the mandate of this court being filed, the complainant moved
for leave to discontinue the suit, or that the bill be dismissed
without prejudice. But the court refused leave, and dismissed the bill, no words being put in the decree that showed
that the dismissal was other than an absolute one. Appeal
here accordingly.
The questions which the appellant now sought to raise
were':
1. Whether the decree of dismissal simply was a bar to
a new suit?
2. What was the effect of an affirmance by an equally divided court?
31r. Boyce, for the appellant, contended:
1. That the decree in the first suit being simply one of'

Dec. 1868.]

DURANT V. ESSEX COUPANY.
Opinion of the court.

dismissal, did not prevent the filing of a new bill in anothef
court, or even in the same court.
2. That an affirmance by an equally divided court amounted to nothing; that this court, upon appeal, must "determine
such appeal," and that a decree by a divided court was not
a compliance with the act of Congress. It was an abdication
of the appellate xwer, and, in effect, imparted the powier
to the Circuit Court.
Messrs. Merwin and Storrow, contra, considering the first
-pointmade plainly untenable, were proceeding to the second,
when they were stopped by the court; Grier, J., referring
them to a note of the late Horace Binney Wallace, Esq., of
Philadelphia, appended to the case'of Krebs v. The Carlisle
Bank,* as to the effect of an affirmance of judgment by an
equally divided court, which he said was "clear and satisfac-

.tory."

Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The decree dismissing the bill in the former suit in the
Circuit Court of the United States being ibsoffife in its
terms, was an adjudication of the merits of the controversy,
and constitutes a bar to any further litigation of the same
subject between the same parties. - A decree of that kind,
unless made because 'of some defect in the pleadings, or for
want.ofjurisdiction; or because the complainant has an adequate remedy at law, or upon some other ground which does
not go to the merits, is a final determination. -Where words
of qualification, such as "without prejudice," or other terms
indicating a right or privilege to take fhrther legal proceedings on the subject, do not accompany the decree, it is presumed to be rendered on the merits.t '
Accordingly, it is the general practice in this country and
in England, when a bill in equity is dismissed without-a consideration of the merits, for the court to express in its decree
See it, infra, Appendix.
t Walden v' Bodley, 14 Peters, 156 Hughes v. United States, 4 Wal.
lace, 237; Bigelow v. Winsor, 1 Gray, 301; Foote v. Gibbsj Ibid. 412.
* 2 Wallace, Jr., 49.

DURANT V. ESSEX COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

that the dismissal is without prejudice. The omission of
the qualification in a proper, case will be corrected by this
court on appeal.*
In the case in the Circuit Court we are not left to conjectures, or to presumptions, as to what was intended by the
decree. The plea of the defendants avers, that testimony
was taken on both sides, and that the case was heard on its
merits, and argued by counsel. And when the mandate of
this court was filed, the complainant moved for leave to discontinue the suit, or that.the bill be dismissed without 'prejudice; but the motion was denied and the decree was affirmed.
There is nothing in the, fact that the judges of this court
were divided in opinion upon the question whether the decree should be reversed or not; and,.therefore, ordered an
affirmanice of the decree of the court below. The jtidgment
of affirmance was the judgment of the entire court. The
division of opinion betxyeen the judges was the reapon for
the entry of that judgment; but the reason is no part of the
judgment itself.
It has long been the doctrind in this country and in Englahd, where courts consist of several members, that no
affirmative action can be had in a cause where the judges
are equally divided in opinion as to the judgment to be rendered or order to be made. If affirmative action is necessairy fbr the further progress of the 'cause, the division operates as a stay of proceedings. If. the affirmatie action
.sought .is to set aside or modify an existing judgment or
order, the division operates as a denial of the application,
and the judgment, or order, stands in fill force, to be carried
into effect by the ordinary means.
Thus, in Iveson v. Moore,t a verdict was rendered for the
Lindsay v. Lynch, 2 Schoales & Lefroy, 10; Woollam v. Hearn, 7
Vescy, 222; Stevens v. Guppy, 3 Russell, 185; Sewall v. Eastern R. R. Co.:
9 Cushing, 13; Miles v. Caldwell, 2 Wallace, 45; Carneal v. Banks, 10
Wheaton, 192; Dandridge v. Washington, 2 Petero, 878; Piersoll v. Elliott,
6 Id. 100; Gaylords v. Kelshaw, 1 Wallace, 83; Barney v. Baltimore, 6 Id.
289; Hobson v. McArthur, 16 Pdters, 195.
•t I Salkeld, 16; S. 0., 1 Lord Raymond, 495.

1868.]

,Dec.

DURAN

V.

EssEx

-COMPANY,

Opinion of the court.

plaintiff, and according to the practice prevailing in the
English courts, a rule was entered for judgment nisi. AfterWaids a rule was obtained that the judgment should be arrested nisi-that is, uiless cause be shown against the arrest.
On motion to discharge this latter rule the jtidges were
equally divided, and no order could be made. But the court
said, if" it had been divided on the first motion [that is, the
motion against the judgment under the general rule], the
,plaintiff might have entered judgment; but now this. rule
[in arrest] must stand or be discharged, and discharged it
cannot be, for the court is equally divided." The inability
of the court, from the division, to take affirmatiye action,
would have allowed the plaintiff to enter his judgment under
the general rule'if no order in arrest has been made'; but
that-being made, the position of the parties was changed.
'In Chapman v. Lamphire,* the plaintiff obtained a -verdict,
-upon which the usual rule was entered for judgment nisi, in
accordance with the established practice. A motion was
then made for the arrest of the judgment, and it is reported
that "the judges were divided in opinion, two against two,,
and so the plaintiff had'his judgment, there being no rule.
.madeto stay it, so that he had his judgment upon his general rule for judgment; but if it had'been upon a demur~rer
or special verdict, then it would have been adjburned to the
Exchequer Chamber."
By ac law of England, passed as long 'ago As 14 Edward
III, if the jtidges of the'Kinig's Bench, or Common Pleas,
are . equally Qivided, the case is to bVe adjourned to the Exchequer Chamber, and be there argued before all the justices
of England. 'If these are equally divided, it isto be determined4,At the next Parliament by a prelate, two earls, and two'
barons, with the advice of the lords chancellor, and treasurer,
the judges, and other of the king's council.t
In the case of the special v 3rdict, affirmative action would
be required to'enter judgme it, which would be impossible
* 8 Modern, 155.

t Comyn's Digest, title Court, D. 5; -oke Litt. 71, 2

DURANT

v. EssEx

COMPANY.

[
[Sup.
Ct.

Opinion of the court.

from the division of the judges. 'But in the case of the demurrer, the effect of a division would depend, wo think,
upon the rules of practice established in such cases, for in
the absence of a settled practice or general rule of court
upon the subject, the judges disagreeing as to the demurrer
might disagree also as to the effect of their inability to decide it, as was the fact in this court in the case -between the
corhmonwealth of Virginia and West Virginia, argued upon
demurrer to the bill at the last term.
In cases of appeal or writ of error in this court, the appellant or plaintiff inerror is always the moving party. It is
affirmative action which he asks. The question presented
is, shall thejudgment, or decree, be reversed? If thejudges
are divided, thb reversal cannot be ha4, for no order can be
made. The judgment of the court below, therefore, stands
in full force. It is, indeed, the settled practice in such case
to enter ajudgment of affirmance; but this is only the most
convenient mode of expressing the fact that the cause is
finally disposed of in conformity with tho action of the court
below, and that that court can proceed to.enforee its judgment. The legal effect would be the same if the appeal, or
writ of error, were dismissed.
The Antelope,* and -tting v. The Bank of the United States,t
are cases where the decisions of the court below, or 'some
part of them, were affirmed upon a division of the judges,
and a term seldom passes in which there are not several
cases disposed of in this way. In Browvn v. Aspden,t Chief
Justice Taney observed that there was no difference between
a decree in chancery and a judgment at law as to its affirmance on a division of the court. "In both .cases," he said,
"the motion is to reverse, and if that fails, the judgment, or
decree, necessarily stands."
It is also the practice of the Exchequer Chamber in England to affirm the judgment of the, court below, brought
before it on a writ of error, when the judges are equally divided. Where'a case is adjourned to that court, under the
I

* 10 Wheaton, 66.

t" 11 Id. 59.

$ 14 Howard, 28.

Dec. 1868.]

KNDALI, V. UNITED STArES.

Statement of the casr.

statute of 14 Edward III, upon a division of the judges of
the court below, the practice, as we have stated, is different.
But on writs of error it is similar to that followed by this
court. Such, also, is the practice of the House of Lords
when sitting as a court of appeals. It is said that this practice depends upon the manner in which the Lords put the
question, which is always in this form: -Shall this judgment,
or decree, be reversed? But that is the question in all appellate courts, and the particular manner in which the question is stated, cannot change the rule of law on the subject.*
The statement which always accompaiiies a judgment in
such case, that it is rendered by a divided court, is only intended to show that. there was a division among the judges
upon the questions of law or fact involved, not that there
was any disagreement as to the judgment to' be entered upon
such division. It serves to explain the absence of any opinion
in the cause, and prevents the decision from becoming an
authority for other cases df like character. But the judgment is as conclusive and binding in every respect upon the
parties as if rendered upon the'concurrence of all the judges
upon every question involvedjin the case.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

KENDALL V. UNITED STATES.
A claim which has never received the assent of the person against whom ii
is asserted, and which remains to be settled by negotiation or suit at
law, cannot be so assigned as to give the assignee an equitable right to
prevent the original parties from compromising or adjusting the claim
on any terms that may suit them.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims.
A. and J. Kendall made an agreement, in the year 1843,
with persons representing a branch of the Cherokee tribe of
Indians, called the Western Cherokees, to prosecute a claim
See Bridge v. Johnson, 5 Wendell, 872.
VOL. VII.

8

