Dec. 1868.]

DRURY V). CROSS.

Statement of thg case.

The record presents no question of law as to the construction
of these patents. The only issues were of fact. It would be
a tedious as well as an unprofitable task to attempt to vindicate the correctness of our decision of this case by quoting
the testimony and examining the volume of plates annexed
to it. The decision could never be a precedent in any other
case. It is enough to say that we see no reason to doubt
the correctness of the decision of the Circuit Court on the
issues made, or the pleadings.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

DRuRY V. CROSS.
1. A sale, far below value, of a railroad, with its franchises, rolling stock,
&c., under a decree of foreclosure, set aside as fraudulent against creditors; the sale having been made under a scheme between the directors
of the road and the purchasers, by which the directors escaped liability
on indorsements which they had made for the railroad company. And
the purchasers held to be trustees to the creditors complainant, for the
full value of the property purchased, less a sum which the purchasers
had actually paid for a large lien claim, presented as for its apparent
amount, but which they had bought at a large discount. Interest on
the balance, from the day of purchase to the day of final decree in the
suit, to be added.
2. But because the full vadue of the property sold was not shown with sufficient certainty, the case was sent back for ascertainment of it by a
master.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for Wisconsin.
The case was this: Bailey & Co., of Liverpool, England,
held notes against the Milwaukee and Superior Rail*roa;J
Company, indorsed by four of its directors, for about $21,000
(the price of iron furnished to lay the road), and as collateral security for payment, $42,000 in mortgage bonds of
the road. Two hundred and eighty thousand dollai's in
similar bonds, but which had never been issued, were sealed
up and deposited with M. K. Jesup & Co., not to be issued
until the debt to Bailey & Co. was paid, and twenty-seven
miles of the road -were built. The company was managed
by a board of seven directors; of whom four made a quorum.

D)RURY V.

CROSS.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

The company having made about five miles of the road,
became thoroughly insolvent, andiabandoned their enterprise. Bailey & Co. being unpaid, and not being willing to
trust to and proceed on their mortgage, brought actions
against the four directors on their indorsement. These,
desirous to throw the debt on the company, where it belonged, procured, at their own expense and risk, a suit to be
commenced to foreclose the mortgage, so that they could
make their debt out of the collaterals in their hands. In
this suit certain bonds issued to the city of Milwaukee, and
the $42,000 of bonds held by Bailey & Co., were spoken of;
but no mention wvas made of the $280,000 of bonds deposited with Jesup & Co., and no relief asked in relation to
them. On the 19th of March, 1859, the bill was taken as
confessed, decree rendered, and the case referred to the
master to compute and report the amount that was due.
IPrior to the decree, in consequence of negotiations between the directors and Cross, Luddington & Scott (Cross &
Co.), an arrangement was made by which these persons were
to purchase the claim of Bailey, and protect the directors
from their indorsement. The directors, on their part, were
to aid Cross & Co. to acquire the entire property of the road.
In furtherance of this plan, the $280,000 of bonds in the
hands of Jesup & Co. were delivered, by resolution of the
board of directors, to Bailey & Co., as additional security
for their claim. Bailey & Co. did not ask for further security, and refused, at first, to receive these bonds, aud, in
fact, did not receive them until they had sold their claim,
with their collaterals, to Cross & Co. This was after the
decree in the foreclosure suit. Cross & Co. having thus
got possession of $322,000 in bonds, transferred by Bailey
& Co., as collaterals, in order, as they said, to become the
absolute owners of them, sold them, with consent of the
railroad corporation, at the Exchange in Milwaukee, on five
days' notice; bought them for a small sum of money; produced them before the master, who allowed them as a lien
on the road, and the final decree in the foreclosure suit was
rendered upon the said $322,000 bonds, and no others.

Dec. 1868.]

DRURY

V.

CROSS.

Argument for the appellants.

The sum paid by Cross & Co. to Bailey & Co., for all the
judgments obtained, wAs $18,880.20.
Under the decree of foreclosure, the entire railroad, its
franchises, rolling stock (two locomotives and tenders, with
ten platform cars) and fixture*s, were sold, in August, 1859,
to Cross & Co., for $20,100. The iron tracks, which were
now torn up, some evidence showed had been sold for.
$22,500. The locomotives (little used) had cost $18,000;
the cars about $5000. The company, it was said, bad paid
between $15,000 and $20,000 for their right of way. 'There
were also railroad chairs, spikes, ties; some fences, &c.; the
value not being exactly shown.
In this state of things, Drury & Page, having, obtained
judgment for $21,684 against the railroad company for
locomotives sold to it, filed a bill in chancery in the court
below against the company, Cross and his co-purchasers,
alleging that the sale was fraudulent, and seeking to reach
the franchises and property of the company sold to Cross &
Co. under the decree of foreclosure. The court below dismissed the bill as to Cross and his co-purchasers; and from
this decree of dismissal the present appeal came. Mr. .A1. ff. Carpenter, for the appellants, contended, that it
was plain that the directors had agreed to sacrifice, and did
sacrifice, the entire property of the company, which it was
their duty as trustees to protect, to secure the personal advantage of discharge from their indorsements. That the
case was the same in principle as James v. Railroad Company,* in which the court, setting aside a sale, animadverted
with severityon the conduct of the parties concerned, and
said that the notice of sale "was calculated to destroy all
competition among the bidders, and, indeed, to exclude from
the purchase every one except those engaged in the perpetration of'the fraud." Upon this assumption the counsel
argued that Cross and his co-purchasers should be charged
with the full value Of the property they received, and con
6 Wallace, 752.

DRURY V.

[Sup. Ct

CROSS.

Opinion of the court.

verted to their own use, fixed by him on the evidence (not
66,100.00
.
very exact), at
13,380.20
.
Less what they paid,
$52,719.80
Mr. Palmer, contra, argued that the complainants had not
acquired any lien upon the property of the railroad company, or upon the bonds deposited with Jesup & Co., and
that by making the transfer to Bailey & Co. of the $280,000
bonds which had been deposited with Jesup & Co., the directors had only given a preference to a meritorious creditor; a preference which it had been repeatedly determined
by this court was lawful.*
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The transaction which this case discloses cannot be sustained by a court of equity. The conduct of the directors of
this railroad corporation was very discreditable, and without
authority of law. It was their duty to administer the important matters committed to their charge, for the mutual
benefit of all parties interested, and in securing an advantage
to themselves, not common to the other creditors, they were
guilty of a plain breach of trust. To be relieved from their
indorsement, they were willing to sacrifice the whole property of the road. Bound to execute the responsible duties
intrusted to their management, with absolute fidelity to both
creditors and stockholders, they, nevertheless, acted with
reckless disregard of the rights of creditors as meritorious
as those whose paper they had indorsed. If Bailey & Co.
had sold iron to build the road, so had the Boston association sold locomotives to run it. It is not easy to see why
the corporation should exhaust its effects to pay one, and
leave the other unpaid. But, it is said, the directors, being
unable to pay both, had the right to choose between them.
We do not deny that a debtor has a legal right to prefer one
creditor over another, when the transaction is bondfide; but
" See Tompkins v. Wheeler, 16 Peters, 106.

Dec, 1868.1

DRURY V. CROSS.
Opinion of the court.

this is, in no just sense, a case of preference between creditors. If the law permits the debtor, in failing circumstances,
to make choice of the persons he will pay, it denies him the
right, in doing it, to contrive that the unpreferred creditor
shall never be paid. In other words, the law condemns any
plan in the disposition of property which necessarily accomplishes a fraudulent result.
That the plan adopted by the *directorsof this railroad to
dispose of its property to Cross & Co. was a fraudulent contrivance, and necessarily, if executed, accomplished a fraudulent result, is too plain.for controversy. At the time this
-scheme was initiated, there were only five miles of- track
laid, the company hopelessly insolvent, and the enterprise
abandoned. In this condition of things, the directors Were
sued on their indorsement, and, as was natural, manifested
an anxiety to have the property of the company ay the
debt for which they were liable. But Bailey & Co. preferred
not to enforce their mortgage lien, and only consented to
allow it to be done, on being indemnified against the risk
and expense of the suit. The directors, in furnishing them
this indemnity, in order to procure the enforcement of the
mortgage ]iento -the extent of $42,000, which in their hands
was a just debt against the company, were guilty of no
.wrong. But the departure from right conduct,' on their
part, commenced at this point. Notwithstanding they had
the control of the foreclosure suit, they were not content to
let it proceed to decree and sale without they were, in advance, relieved of personal responsibility. Bailey & Co.
would not release them, and they endeavored to find some
person who would purchase the Bailey claim, with its collaterals, and discharge them from liability on their notes.
This would have been well enough, if the scheme had embraced only the $42,000 bonds held as col'aterals, which the
company justly owed, and the foreclosure suit was brought
to enforce. But the scheme went much further; for these
directors, who controlled the corporation, in their selfish
desire to save themselves at the expense of their own reputation and the rights of creditors, were willing to use the

D.RURY V.

CROSS.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

means at their command to swell the indebtedness of the
road beyond its true amount, in order to aid more effectually Cross and his associates to acquire all the property of
the company.
If Cross & Co. had been satisfied with the transfer of the
$42,000 bonds, which constituted the true indebtedness
against the road, in the hands of Bailey & Co., the transaction on their part would have be-n free from censure; but
the certain attainment of the object they had in view required more bonds. It was very clear that bidders might
appear, if the road was to be sold for no more than the face
of these bonds, while they would be deterred from attending a sale where the sum to be made was over $300,000.
To bring the decree, therefore, up to a point at which competition would be silenced, it became necessary to use the
bonds in the hands of Jesup & Co. Two hundred and eighty
thousand dollars in the boujds of an insolvent corporationconstituting no indebtedness against it-are thrust, unasked,
into the hands of creditors, for the ostensible purpose of fu'nishing them additional security, when, at the lime, they were
negotiating a sale of the debt to be secured for $7000 less
than its fAce. But the transfer to Bailey & Co. was a mere
pretence. To preserve a semblance of fairness in the business, the bonds bad to come through Bailey & Co., but the
real purpose was not to help them, but to aid Cross and his
associates to absorb the whole road-and this these directors
were willing to do-when the debt they were struggling to
escape could be paid for $13,380.20, and the very iron in the
road-bed, for which the debt was incurred, was worth over
S20,000.
It is claimed that the sale at the Milwaukee Exchange,
assented to by the corporation, conferred rights on the purchasers of the bonds which cannot be successfully attacked;
but this claim is based on tho idea that the sale was fbr an
honest purpose, when, in fact, it was only part of a pre.
viously concerted plan to accomplish a fraudulent purpose.
The ceremony of this sale was a cheap way of showing
honesty and fairness, for it was very evident that an adver-

Dec. 1868.]

DRURY V.

CROSS.

Opinion of the court.

tisement to sell a large amount of the bonds (having no
market value) of an insolvent and abandoned railroad corporation would never attract the attention of capitalists.
The scheme to acquire the property of this corporation
was, in its inception, fraudulent, and every step in the progress of its execution was necessarily stamped with the same
character. . There is nothing in this record to mitigate the
conduct of the defendants, who purchased the Milwaukee
and Superior Railroad. They knew the road was abandoned, the company insolvent, the complainants unpaid for
property then in the possession of the corporation, and yet
they combine with timid and unfaithful trustees to get not
only this, but all the property of the corporation, and adopted
a plan to carry out their project, which resulted in raising
the decree to an extent that would necessarily prevent all
fair competition. The fruits of such an adventure cannot
be enjoyed by the parties concerned in it.
There are other features in this case which provoke comments, but we forbear to make them.
Cross, Luddington, and Scott purchased the entire railroad,
locomotives, cars, and franchises of the company, for about
$20,000. Subsequent to the sale, they stripped the road-bed
of iron, ties, spikes, and chairs, which, with the locomotives,
cars, and fencing, they sold to various parties, and realized
from the sales a large sum of money; but how much, the
evidence is so singularly loose that we are unable to tell.
On account of the want of certainty on this point, the case
will have to be sent back, and referred to a master to take
proofs, who will also ascertain and report the value (if there
be any) of the franchises of the company which Cross & Co.
still retain.
Cross, Luddington, and Scott must be held liable as trusties to the complainants for the full value of the property
they purchased on the sale of the road, after deducting the
amount due at the day of sale on the Bailey judgments
against the .directors, which amount they will be allowed to
retain.
VOL.

IL

20

EDMONSON

v.

BLOOMSEIRE.

[Sill. Ct.

Statement of the case.

They must also be charged with interest on the balance
found due the complainants, from the day of the sale to the
day of the final decree in this suit.
THE DECREE 'Of the Circuit Court is REVERSED, and the
cause remanded, with directions to proceed in CONFORM[T1
WITH THIS OPINION.

EDMONSON

v. BLOOMSHIRE.

1. If if ii apparent from the record that this court has not acquired jurisdiction of a case for want of proper appeal or writ of error, it will be dismissed, although neither party ask it.
2. An appeal or writ of error which does not bring to this court a transcript
of the record before the expiration of the term to which it is returnable,
is no longer a valid appeal or writ.
3. Although a prayer for an appeal, and its allowance by the court below,
constitute a valid appeal though no bond begiven (the bond being to bgiven with effect at any time while the appeal is in force), yet if ho
transcript is filed in this court at the term next succeeding the allowance of the appeal, it has lost its vitality as an appeal.
. Such vitality cannot be restored by an order of the Circuit Court made
afterwards, accepting a bond made to perfect that appeal. Nor does a
recital in the citation, issued after such order, that the appeal was taken
as of that date, revive the defunct appeal or constitute a new one.

the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of Olhio; the case being thus:
The Judiciary Act provides that final decrees in a circuit
court may be re-examined, reversed, or affirmed i,.re "upon
a writ of error whereto shall be annexed and returned therewith, at the day and place therein mentioned, an authenticated transcript of the record, an assignment of errors, and
prtyer for reversal, with a citation to the adverse party."
It further enacts that " writs of error shall not be brought
but within five years after rendering or passing the judgment
or decree complained of, or in case the person entitled to
APPEAL from

such writ of error be afeme covert, &c., then within five years

as aforesaid, exclusive of the time of such disability."

