[Sup. C.

BANK V. SUPERVISORS.

Statement of the case.

NOTE.-At the sa-me time with the cases just disposed of
was decided another, from flae same court, involving the
same question of the righlt to tax as they did, but differing
fiom them in certain respects. It is here reported:
BANK V. SUPERVISORS.
I. United States notes issued under the Loan and Currency Acts of 1862
and 1863, intended to circulate as money, and actually constituting,
with the National bank notes, the ordinary circulating medium of the
country, are, moreover, obligations of the National government, and
exempt from State taxation.
2. United States notes are engagements to pay dollars; and the dollars intended are coined dollars of the United States.

THis case-brought here by the Bank of New"York-differed
from the preceding in two particulars: (1) That the board of
supervisors, which in the other cases allowed and audited the
claims of the banking associations, refused to Allow the claim
made in this case; and (2) That the exemption from State taxa-

tion claimed in this case, was of United States notes, declared
by act of Congress to be a legal tender for all debts, public and
private, except duties on imports and interest on the public
debt, while in the other cases it was of certificates of indebtedness. These United States notes, as is sufficiently known at the
present, bad become part of the currency of the country. Their
fo-im (with certain necessary variations for different denominations, place of payment, &c.) was thus:
[Act of March 3, 1863.]
THE

UNITED STATES promise to pay

alwtg g'ofars
TO THE BEARER.

Washingon,

March 10, 1863.

[Payable at the Treasury of the U. S., New York.]

L. E. CHITTENDEN,
Register of the Treasury.

F. E. SPINNER,
Treasurer of the United States.

Dec. 1868.1

BANK V. SUPERVISORS.'

1

Argument in favor of the tax.

The mn ndamus in the State court was irec'ted, in the case
now before the court, to the board of supervisors, instead of to
the officers authorized to issue bonds, as in -the cases just preceding.'
The judgment in the Court of Appeals sustained the action
of the board refusing to allow the exemption' set up, and the
case was brought here by writ of error to that court.
.Messrs. O'Connor and' O'Gorman, in support of'the judgment
below:
1. The exemption of the public debt of he United States from
taxation by State authority, rests only upon that clai~se of: thd
Constitution which authorizes Congress "to borrow money on
the credit of the United States."
- 2. The purpose and effect of the acts authorizing the notes in
question was to create a new kind of money in the United
States-paper money-which was to be a substitute for a metallic currency. The issuing of these notes was neither more.'
nor less than the creation j by right or without it, of a-conventional money. The notes were intended to be mohey, and in
practice have become the only lawful m6ney in use.
3. The government did not, I'eally and in fact, contract by
these notes to pay the bearer on, demand or at any time. The
notes were made by the act a legal tender in payment of all
debts, including (with a small exemption) the govern int's
own, and of course when presented for payment,,similar notes
being a legal tender in .discharge of them, the debt would be
discharged by a delivery of new notes of the same kind. The
notes were promises to make other promises, to be renewed ad
'infinitum. There is really no debtor nor creditor in respect of
them. There is no loan or evidence of loan.
As far as the credit of the United States was involved in the
issue of these notes, no greater responsibility was assumed than,
is assumed by any government in coining or otherwise affixing
a stamp to metal, and affixing to it a certain nominal value;.
although by mixiig or debasing the metal, its real value, in use
or exchange, may have been totally destroyed. The acts in
question did but endeavor to confer a preseribed value on certain stamped pdper, which they compelled the citizens of the
United States to take in payment of all debts due, or to become

BANK V.

SUPERVI0RS.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

due by the government to them, or'by them to the government,
or to one another.
By this ncans, instead of borrowing money, Congr'ess made
money, and rendered borrowing unnecessary.
The protection from State 'interference accorded by the Constitution to the exercise by the government of the power of borrowing cannot be invoked in such a case.
4. Tih acts of Congress relating to the financial operations
of the government during the civil war, afford evidence that
Congress did not intend that the notes in question should be
exempt from State taxation.*
-Messrs. Peckham and Burrill, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The general question requiring consideration is whether United
States notes come under another rule in respect of taxation than
that which applies to certificates of indebtedness.
The issues of United States notes were authorized by three
successive acts. The first was the act of February 25, 1862;t
the second, the act of July 11, 1862;1 and the third, that of
March 3, 1863.ยง
Before either of' these acts received the sanctioni of Congress
the Secretary of the Treasury"had been authorized by the acV
of July 17, 1861,11 to issue treasury notes not bearing interest,
but payable on demand by the assistant treasurers at New York,
Philadelphia, or Boston; and about three weeks later these notes,
by the act of August 5, 1861, had been made receivable generally for public dues. The amount of notes to be issued of this
description was originally limited to fifty millions, but was afterwards, by the act of February 12, 1862,** increased to sixty
millions.
These notes, made payable on demand, and receivable for all
public dues, including duties on imports always payable in coin,
were, practically, equivalent to coin; and all public disbursements, until after the date of the act last mentioned, were made
in coin or these notes.
See 12 Stat. at Large, 345,
t- 12 Stat. at Large, 845.

f Stat.

at Large, 259,

6.

1, 2; Ib. 709; 13 Id. 218-19-21-22.
Ilb. 709.
$ Ib. 532.
1lb. 888.
5 lb. 818, 5.

Dec. .1868.]

BANK V. SUPERVISORS.

Opiwon of the court.

In December, 1861, the State banks (and no others then existed)'suspended payment in coin; and it became necessary to
provide by law for the use of State bank,ilotes, or to authorize
the issue of notes for circulation under the authority of the national government. The latter alternative was preferred, and
in the necessity thus recognized originated the legislation ,providing at first for the'emission -of.United States notes, and'at a
later period for the issue of the national bank currency.
Under the exigencieh. of the times it seems to have been
thought inexpedient to attempt any provision for the redemption
of the United States-not"es in coin. The law, therefore, directed
that they should be made payable to bearer at the treasury of
the United States, but did not provide for payment on demand.
The period of payment was left to be determined by the public
exigencies. In the meantime the notes w.6re receivable in payment of all loans, and weie, until after the close of our civil war,
always practically convertible into bonds of the funded debt,
bearing not less than five per cent. interest; payable in coin.
The act of February 25, 1862, provided for the issue of these
notes to the amount of one hundred and fifty millions -of dol,lars. The act ofJu'ly 11i 1862, added another hundred and fifty
millions of dollars-to the circulation, reserving, ,however, fifty
millions for the redemption of temporary loan, to be issued and.
used oply when.nebessary for that purpose.' Under the act of
March 3, 1863, another issue of one hundred and fifty millions
was authorized, making the whole amount authorized'four hundred and fifty -iillions, and contemplating a permanent circulation, until resumption, of payment in coini, of four hundred millions of dollars.
It is unnecessary here to.go further into the history of these
notes, or to examine their relation to the national bank -,urrency. That history belongs.to another place; and the quality
of these notes, as legA tenders, belongs to another discussion.
It has been thpught proper only to advert Io the legislation by
which these notes were authorized, in order that their true character may be clearly perceived.
That these notes-were issued undlerthe authority of the United'
States, and as a means to ends entirely within the constitutional
power of the government, was not seriously questioned upon the
argument.
. But it was insisted that they-o ere issued as money.; that
their

BANK V. SUPERVISORS.

[SLIP.

t

Opinion of the court.
controlling quality was that of money, and that therefore they
were subject to taxation in the same manner, and to the same
extent, as coin issued under like authority.
And there is certainly much force in the argument. It is
clear that these notes were intended to circulate as money, and,
Wvith the national bank notes, to constitute the credit currency
of the coirntry.
Nor is it easy to see that taxation of these notes, used as
money, and held by individual owners, can control or embarrassthe power of the government in issuing them for circulation, more than like taxation embarrasses its power in coining
and issuing gold and silver money for circulation.
Apart from the quality of legal tender impressed upon them
by acts of Congress, of which we now say nothing, their circulation as currency depends on the extent to which they are
received in payment, on the quantity in circulation, and on the
credit given to the promises they bear. In these respects they
resemble the bank notes formerly issued as currency.
But, on the' other hand, it is equally clear that these notes
are obligations of the United States. Their name imports obligation. Every one of them expresses upon its face an engagement of the nation to pay to the bearer a certain sum. The
dollar note is an engagement to pay a dollar, and the dollar
intended is the coined dollar of the United States; a certain
quantity in weight and fineness of gold or silver, authenticated
as such by the stamp of the government. No other dollars had
before been recognized by the legislation of the national government as lawful money.
Would, then, their usefulness and value as means to the exercis6 of the functions of government, be injuriously affected by
State taxation ?
It cannot be sad, as we have already intimated, that the same
inconveniences as would arise from the taxation of bonds and
other, interest-bearing obligations of the government, would
attend the taxation of notes issued for circulation as money.
But we cannot say that no embarrassment would arise from
such' taxotion. And we think it clearly within the discretion of
Congress to determine whether, in view of all the cincumstances
attending the issue of the notes, their usefulness, as a means of
carrying on the government, would be enhanced by exemptiod
from taxation; and within the constitutional power of Congress,

BANK V. SUPERVISORS..

Dec. 186.8.]

Opinion of the court.

having resolved the question of -usefulness affirmatively, to pro-,
vide by law for such exemption.
There remains, then, only this question, Has Congress exercised 'the power of exemption?
A careful erxamination of the acts under which they were
issued, has left no doubt in our minds upon that point.
The act of Feh~ruary, 1862,* declares that "all United States
bonds, and other securities of the United States, held by'individuals, associations, or corporations, within the United States,
shall be exempt from taxation by or under State authority."
We have already said that these notes are obligations.. They
-bind the national faith. They are, therefore, strictly securities.
They secure the payment stipulated, to the holders, by the
pledge of the national faith, the only ultimate security of All
national obligations, whatever form they may assume.
And this provision is re-enacted in application to the second
issue of Unite4 State6 notes by the act of July 11, 1862. t
And, as if to remove, every possible doubt from the intention
of Congress, the act of March 3,1863, + which provides for the
last issue of these notes, 'omits, in it,& exemption clause, the
word "stocks," and substitutes for "other securities," the words
"Treasury notes or United States notes issued under the provisidnsof this act."
It was ihsisted at thd bar, that a .measure. of exemption in
respect to the notes issued under this-different from that provided in the formeracts,-in respect to the notes authorized by
them-was intended; but we cannot yield our assent to tbis
view. The rule established in the last act is in no respect
ificonsistent with that previously established. It,must be regarded, therefore, as explanatory. It makes specific what was
Defore'expressed in general terms.
Our conclusion is, that.United States notes are exempt; and,
at the time the New York statutes were enacted, were exempt
from taxation by or under State authority. The judgment of
the Court of Appeals must therefore be
RE VERSED.
*12 Star. 846,

2.

f 1b. 56.

: 1b. 709'.

