Dec. 1868.]

LABER ° V. ",COOPER.,
Syllabus.

be f6und iii the record, was a judgment rendered in favor
of plaintiff for the rpcovery of a sum of monuey. There was
no question raised on the pleadings; no bill of exceptions;
nb instructions or ruling of -the court.
There. was what purported to be a statement of facts,
signed by the judge, found in the record. It was filed more
than two months after the writ of error was allowed and'
filed in the court, and nearly a month afte' the citation was
issued by the judge. It did not appear to have been filed by,
consent of parties.
The case was submitted by Mr. Janin for the plaintiff in
error, and by Mr. -Durant,contra, pointing out the peculiarity
of the record.
Mr. Justice MITiLER delivered the opinion of the court.
To permit the judge to make a statement of faets, on
which the case shall be heard here, after !he case is removed
to this court by the service 6f the writ of error, or even after
it is issued, would place the rights of parties who have judgments of record, entirely in the power of the judge, without
hearing and without remedy. The statehient of facts, filed
without consent of the parties, must be treated as a nullity ;,
and, as there is nothing,on which error of the court below
can be predicated, the'judgment must be
AriFIRMED.

LABER V. OOOPER.
1. The fact that no replication is put in to two of-three special pleas, raising
distinct defences, is not a matter for reversal ; the case having been tried
bMIow as if the pleadings had been perfect and in form.
2. Nor; that such pleas have concluded to the court instead of to the country;
the matter not having been brought in any way to the attention of the
court below.
8 Nor, under similar omission, that the language of the verdict in.such a
case is, that we find the "1issue," &c., instead of the "' issues."
4. The fact, that testimony w~s objected to and received, does not oblige this

LABER V.

COOPER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
court to consider it; the record not showing that the objection was overruled, and exception taken.
5. It is not error to refuse to give instructions asked for, even if correct in
point of law, provided those given cover the entire case. and submit
it properly to the jury.
6. The overruling of a motion for a new trial cannot be made the subject
of review by this court.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the N~orthern District of
Illinois.
Cooper sued Laber in the court below. His declaration
contained tyro counts upon a promissory note, made by Laber
to a certain railroad company, or its order, and indorse'd, as
was alleged, to the plaintiff. It contained also the common
counts.
The defendant pleaded the general issue, and three special
pleas.
The first averred that there was no consideration for the
note, and that it was obtained from the defendant by fraudulent misrepresentations; and that these facts were known to
the plaintiff when he took it.
The second denied the indorsement of the note, as averred
ifl the first count.
The third was to the same effect, as to the indorsement
averred in the second count.
All the special pleas, though thus denying only what the
'plaintiff alleged, and not containing either new matter or a
special traverse, concluded with a verification; and not to the
country.
'To the first of them the plaintiff replied, denying his alleged knowledge of fraudulent misrepresentations. To the
second and third, no replications were filed. With the pleadings in this state, the case went to trial, and was tried as if
the pleadings had been'in forni and perfect.
Among the testimony given by the defendant relating to
both the allegation of fraudulent misrepresentation and to
the matter of indorsement, was that of one Durand. The
admission of part of this (not necessary to be stated, in
view of the decision of this 6ourt, that it was niot properly

Dec. 1868.]

LABER v. C00PER.
Argunent for the plaintiff in error.

brought before it), was objected to by the defendant; -but
it was, nevertheless, admitted; and this was' all that thebill of exceptions disclosed about the matter. No. exception
to it appeared on the bill.
A request for certain spe~ific instructions, as the record
showed, was made by. the defendant. The court refused.
to give them, but charged the jury clearly upon the whole'
case; fully presenting in the charge its views upon both the
subjects presented by the special pleas, and which were, in,
fact, the only grounds of the controversy. It is not necessary for the -reporter to state the case at large on which the
charge was given, nor the instructions asked, nor the 5harg&
itself; this court considering* that the report would shed no
new light on any legal principle.
The lafiguage of the vei'dict was thus:
"We, the ju ry, find the issue for the plaintiff, and assess his
damages to the sum of $7192."
A motion for a new trial was made, and overruled, and
judgment entered upon the verdict.
The defendant excepted to the refusal to charge as prayed,
to different passages in the charge as given, and to the overruling of his -motion for a new trial.
The record contained a hun'dred and seventy-five pages,
of which more than four-sevenths was taken up by the bill
of exceptions.
Mr. Carpenter,for the plaintif in error, contended:
1. That the court had manifestly proceeded in the trial as
though' all the facts set forth in the defendant's three special
pleas were put in issue,_while no replication had been put
in to the two pleas, denying the indorsement.
2. That even assuming that these matters Were all in issue,
the verdict did not cover them; being only upon the issue,
some one issue; but uPon what one did-not appear.
3. That Durand's testimony was inadmissible.
* See infra, p. 571."

LABER 1). COOPER.

[Sup. Ct.

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

4. That the court, instead of charging upon the instructions asked, and so upon points, charged upon genernl'principles; thus not presenting the matters in issue in th'e best
way for the jury to understand them.
[The learned counsel then analyzed the charge, endeavoring ,to show its error.]

Mr. Umlauf, contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
In this case the bill of exceptions furnishes the same
ground of complaint, which was remarked upon in Lincoln
v. Claflin,* heretofore decided at this term. In the case before us, it fills an hundred and twenty-seven printed pages.
The pointg arising for our consideration could have been
better presented in a very small part. of this space. Such a
mass of unnecessary matter has a tehdency to involve what
is really important in obscurity and confusion. Its presence
is a violation of the fourth rule of this court. Its examination consumes our time, increases our labor, and can subserve no useful purpose. Thd subject was so fully considered
in the case referred to, that we deem it unnecessary to pursue
it further upon this occasion.
Winnowing away the chaff, we find the questions left for
our examination neither numerous nor difficult of solution.
The declaration contains two counts upon a promissory
note, made by Laber to the Racine and Milwaukee Railroad
Company, or order, fbr $3700, dated the 6th of May, 1856,
payable five years from the 10th of May, in that year, with
interest at the rate of ten per cent. per annum, payable annually, on the 10th of May; principal and interest payable
at the office of the company, in the city of Racine, in the
State of Wisconsin, and indorsed by the payee, by H. 8.
Durand, its president, to the plaintiff. The declaration contains also the common counts.
The defendant pleaded the general issue, and three special
pleas.
Supra, p. '132.

1ac. 1868]

"-ABBR V.' C6oPER.

569

Opiniof of the-court.

The filrst special plea avers that the note, and a mortgage.
* securing its payment, weie given to the railroad company'
for thirty-seven shares of its capital stock; that there was
no consileratioi for the note; that it was obtained from the
defendant by false and fraupdulent representations; and thabt
these facts were known to the plaintiff when the note came
'into his possession. The second special pex denies the in-'
dorsement of the note to the plaintiff, as averred in the first
count. -The third special plea is to the same effect, as tothe
indorsemefit averred in the second count. All the gpecial
pleas .conclude with a verification.
To the first of the special pleas, the plaintiff replied -denyitg knowledge of the alleged false and fraudulent representations,, before and at the time of the indorsement and
transfer of the note. To the second and third special pleas,
no replications were filed.
The cause proceeded to trial. The record shows that a
large mass of testimony was given by the defendant -relating
to both the defences set. up by the special pleas. A prayer
for instructious' was submittd. by the defendant. The court
refused to ,give them, but charged the jury fully upon the
whole case. Both the subjects presented by the special pleas
were fully discusse.d. Indeed they were the anly grounds
of the controversy.between the parties. The case was tried,
in'all iespects, as if 'the pleadings had been formal and perfect.' The jury found for the plaintiff The hanguage of
the verdict is: "We, the jury, find the issue for the plaintiff,
and assess his damAges," &c. The defendant moved foir a
new trial. The motion was overruled, andjudgmeni entered
upon th6 verdict.* The defendant excepted to the refusal to
charge as prayed, to twelve passages in the charge as given,
and to the overruling of his motion for a new trial.
1. It is objected, as-an error, that no replication was put
in to the pleas denying the indorsement of the note.
The plea of the general issue would-have made it incum.
bent upon the plaintiff to prove the indorsement' as averred.
in the declaration, but that the statute of Illinois, adopted

570

LABER V. COOPER.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

by the Circuit Court as a rule of practice, dispenses with
such proof, unless the fact is denied by the defendant under
oath. The oath of the. defendant was affixed to both the
-pleas, raising the question. As they only denied what the
plaintiff had alleged, contained no new matter, and no special
traverse, they should have concluded to the country, and not
to the court. The defect was one of form, and could have
been reached by a special demurrer. The trial proceeded
as if they had concluded to the country, and a similiter had
been added by the plaintiff. To the objection now taken,
there are several answers. The irregularity is cured by the
trial and verdict.* The objection comes too late; not having
been made in the court below, it cannot be made here. It
is within the thirty-second section of the Judiciary Act of
1789, which forbids a judgment to be reversed for any want
of form in the proceedings, except such as shall have been
specially pointed out by demurrer.
2. It is said that, conceding the issues intended to be made
by the defendant were in fact submitted to the jury, the verdict does not respond to them; that it finds "the issue"but one-and not designating which one, for the plaintiff.
It was competent for the court to amend the verdict by
changing the term "issue " fromthe singular to the plural.
Tlhis would have removed the ground of the objection. A
verdict, unless it be a special one, is always amendable by
the notes of the judge.t The proper amendment would
doubtless have been made below, if the attention of the
court had been called to the subject. Like the preceding
objection, it is made here too late, and is within the act of
Congress referred to, upon the subject of jeofails.
3. Upon looking through the testimony of Durand, as set
out in the bill of exceptions, it appears that the admission
* Coan v. Whitmore, 12 Johnson, 363; Brazzel & Hawkins v. Usher,

Breese, 14; Stone v. Van Curler, 2 Vermont, 116; Sullivan v. Dollins, 18
oillinois, 88; Couteb et ab v. Barton, 1 Morris, 854.
t 1 Chitty's Pleadhig,. 411 ; Roulain v. McDowall, 1 Bay, 490; Norris v.
Durham, 9 Cowen, 151; Sayre v. Jewett, 12 Wendell, 185; Paul v. Harden,
9 Sergeant &.Rawle. 28.

Dec. 1868.

,.

"THE A-Licik.

571

Syllabus.

of a part of it was objected toby the defendant, but it-does
not appear .that the objection.was overruled, and exception
taken.- It only appears that the testimony was admitted
after the objection was made. Non constat, but 'that the objection wah waived, or the decision acquiesced in. - In order
to make such a point aiailable, it is necessary that an excep.
tion should be distinctly taken, and placed upon the record.
4. It was fiot error for the court to refuse to give -the instructions asked for' by the defQndait, even if 'correet
in
entire case,
point of law, provided those given covered the
and submitted it properly to the jury. The defences of false,
and fraudulent representations to the defendant,.and of the
non-indorsement of the 'note, involved mixed questions-of
law and fact., We think the law was properly stated by the
judge, and the.facts fairly submitted to the jury. The charge
was full and able. It/would throw no new light upon'any
legal principle, and could be productive of no benelit, to.
examine in-detail, each of the numerous passages takenfrom
the charge, and made the subject 6f exception.
t "is
sufficient to say that, after a careful examination of. all of them,'
in the light of the context of the charge, and of the evidence, as it 'was before the Jury, we have found nothiuk.
which we deem erroneous.
5. An exception to the bverruling of -the motion for a new
trial is found in the record, but isnot adverted to in 'the
argQment submitted for the plaintiff in error. Such a decision cannot be made the subject of-review by this court.
The judgment below is
AFFIRMED.-.

THE ALICIA.
17-This court cannot acquire jurisdiction of a cause through an order of a
Circuit Court directing its transfer to this court, though such transfer
be authorized by the express provisionofan.actofCongress. Suchprovision must be regarded as an attempt, inadvertently made, to give to
this court a jurisdiction withheld by the Constitution.

