624

THE BELFAST.

[Sup. CL

Syllabus:

vision. That is not an open question in this court. 'Whenever it has been presented, the ruling has been that, in cases
of bonds issued by municipal corporations, under a statute
upon the subject, ratification by the legislature is in all respects equivalent to original authority, and cures all defects
of power, if such defects existed, and all irregularities in its
execution.* The same principle has been applied in the
courts of the States.t This court has repeatedly recognized
the validity of private and curative statutes, and given them
full effect, where the interests of private individuals were
alone concerned, and were largely involved and affected.1
The earlier and more important of these authorities are so
well known to the profession and are so often referred to,
that it would be waste of time to comment upon them. We
hold this objection also fatal to the appellant's case.
Several other important propositions have been discussed
by the learned counsel for the appellee. They have not been
congidered, and-we express no opinion in regard to them.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

THE BtLFAST.
1. In all cases where a maritime lien arises, the original jurisdiction to en-

force it by a proceeding in rem, is exclusive in the District Courts of
the United States, as provided by the ninth section of the Judiciary
Act of 1789.

2., State legislatures have no authority to create maritime liens; nor can
they confer jurisdiction upon a State court, to enforce such a lien by a
suit or proceeding in rem, as practised in admiralty courts.
3. Upon an ordinary contract of affreightment, th6 lien of the shipper is a
maritime lien; and a proceeding in rem, to enforce it, is within the exGelpcke v. Dubuque, 1 Wallace, 220; Thomson v. Lee County, 3 Id. 327.
t Wilson v. Hardesty, 1 Maryland Ch. Decisions, 66; Shaw v. Norfolk
Co. R.R. Co., 5 Gray, 180.
1 Satterlee v. Matthewson, 2 Peters, 880; Wilkinson v. Leland, Id. 627;
Leland v. Vilkinson, 10 Id. 294; Watson v. Mereer, 8 Id. 88; Charles River
Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Id. 420; Stanley v. Colt, 5 Wallace, 119;
Croxall v. Shererd, Id. 268.

Dec. 1868.]

THE BELFAST.
Statement of the case.

elusive original cognizance of the District Courts of the United States,
albeit the contract be for transportation between ports and places
within the same State, and all the parties be citizens of the same State,
provided only that such contract be for transportation upon navigable
waters to which the general jurisdiction of the admiralty extends.
4. The "saving," in the ninth section of the Judiciary Act, "to suitors, in
all cases, of the right of a common law remedy, where the common law
is competent to give it," does not authorize a proceeding in rem, to
enforce a maritime lien, in a common law court, whether State or Federal.
.ommon law remedies are not applicable to enforce such a Her,
but arc suits in ersnam, though such suits, under special statutes, may
be commenced by attachment of the property of the debtor. Proceedings in a suit at comzmon law, on a contract of affreightment, are the
same as in suits on coi°racts not regarded as maritime, whollyirrespective of the fact that the injured party might have sought redress in the
admiralty. The judgment in such a case is not against the vessel, as the
offending thing, but against the parties who have violated their contract; and can only affect the vessel so. far as the defendants may- have
property therein.
6. These principles applied to the provision of the statute of 7th October,
1864, of the State of Alabama, under which contracts of affreightment
are authorized to be enforced in rem through courts of the State, by proceedings, the same in form, as those used in courts of admiralty of the
United States; and the statute held unconstitutional and void.

to the Supreme Court of Alabama.
The case was thus: The Constitution ordains that
judicial power of the United States shall extend "to
cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction."' Afid
ninth section oF the Judiciary Act of 1789, provides that
District Courts of'the United States
ERROR

the
all
the
the

"Shall have exclusive original cognizance of all civil causes
of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction,. : saving to suitors in all
cases the right of a common law remedy, where the common law is

competent to give it."

In this state of Federal law, fundamental and statutory,
the State of Alabama,. by enactments, entitled "PROCEEDINGS IN ADMIRALTY,"* provided that there should be a lien
on all vessels for work and materials done or furnished, and

for all debts contracted by the master, owner or consignee,
* Code,
voL. V1r.

2692, 2708.
40

"THE BELAs .

[Sup. Ct.

Statement 9f the case.

and for the wages of the officers, crew, &c., in preference
to other debts due from the owners thereof. By the terms
of the code, the lien is to be asserted by filing a complaint
in any county in which the vessel may be found, stating the
amount and nature of the claim, and praying a seizure of
the vessel. Thereupon the clerk is to issue a writ commanding the sheriff to seize the vessel, her tackle, apparel and
furniture. At any time before judgment, the master, owner
or other persons may release the vessel by. entering into
bond in double the amount of the claim, stipulating to pay
the amount of the judgmefit. Any number of persons may
unite in the same complaint, and if more than one complaint
be filed the court must consolidate them, and render but one
judgment against the vessel, which is to be considered several
as to each complainant. If a stipulation be entered into, the
stipulators are defendants. If none, the court must render a
judgment ex partecondemning the boat, tackle, &c., to be sold
in satisfaction of the claim; and the affidavit of complainant
is made presumptive evidence of the jugtice of the demand.
Finally, the code provides that, "unless where otherwise
provided in this chapter, the proce'edings to enforce the lien
shall be the same as in the courts of admiralty of the United
States, but either party may have any question of fact decided by
a jvi-y, upon an issue made up under direction of the court."
ty the act of 7th October, 1864, "to amend the admiralty
laws of the State," these provisions are extended to the contract of affreightment.
Under this statute, Boone & Co. filed their libel, March
30, 1866, in the City Court of Mobile, claiming $5800 for the
loss of certain bales of cotton, shipped to them from Vienna,
in the State of Alabama, to Mobile, in the same State, and
prayed "process in admiralty" for the seizure of the steamboat Belfast.
In the same court a libel was also filed by J. & S. Steers,
claiming; compensation foi other bales, shipped by them from
Columbus, Mississippi, to Mobile, in Alabama, already mentioned. And a libel by Watson & Co. claiming it for cottoi
shipped by them, from and to the same points.

Dec. 1868.]

THE BELFAST.
Statement of the case.

All the navigation which was the subject of the case, was
upon the Tombigbee River, navigable water of the UnitedStates.
Under these several libels, the sheriff, by virtue of writs of
seizure, took the steamer into possession, and posted his monitions, and the causes, under the statute, were consolidated
and heard together. The answer, applicable to the three
cases alike, set forth that the steamer was duly enrolled and
licensed, in pursuance of laws of the United States, and that
on the 15th January, 1866, she was iegularly cleared at Mobile, Alabama, for Columbus, Mississippi, and that on her
downward trip the cotton claimed was lost, and therefore,
that the City Court had no jurisdiction.
A decree was rendered on 28th July, for the three libellants. Appeal was taken to the Supreme Court of Alabama,
where one assignment of errors was: "That the City Court
erred in overruling the protest to the jurisdiction." The
decree of the City Court was, however, affirmed by the Supreme Court; and deciding, as that court thus did, in favor
of the validity of a statute of a State drawn in question on
the ground of its being repugnant to the laws of the United
States, the case was brought here under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
Not much contesting the point that if the court had no
jurisdiction in the two cases where the carriage was not
wholly within one State no agreement below could anthorize what it did about these two (jurisdiction being of
course to be conferred by the law alone), the matter of debate was reduced, here, chiefly to the first case, that, namely,
of Boone & Co., where the whole carriage was within the
State of Alabama, and to the question of constitutional law
arising upon it, to wit:
Whether the contract, made as it was, for the transportation of goods from one place to another, both in the same
State, and without the goods being carried in transitu, into
or through any other State or foreign dominion, was a contract which could be enforced by a proceeding in admiralty
n the Federal courts alone?

628

THE BELFAST.

[Sup. (t

Argument against the jurisdiction.

If the State court had no jurisdiction in that case, a for.
tiori, it could have none in the two others.
Mr. P. Phillips,for the appellant:
It is matter of universal knowledge, that the admiralty
jurisdiction of the Federal courts has undergone several
changes since the establishment of this government, and we
need not discuss at all the familiar cases of The Thomas Jefferson,* Waringv. Clarke,t The Lexington,. The Genesee Chief,§
and some others of a past day. Whether they be all reconcilable or not, is unimportant now. The only thing important
to be inquired into by us now, is the judgment of this court, as
settled in. its most recent decisions, determining the character
and limit of the admiralty jurisdiction. And we have here
two leading cases on this point. In The _4Moses Taylor,1j the
action was on a contract for personal transportation. The
court held that this was a maritime contract; that it was not
distinguishable from a contract for the transportationof freight,
and that the breach of either is the appropriate subject of
admiralty jurisdiction.
And, further, that the clause of the Judiciary Act, which
saves to suitors a common law remedy, does not save a proceeding in rem, as used in the admiralty courts. Such a proceeding not being a remedy aflbrded by the common law.
In The _ine v. Trevor, [ the action was for a collision occurring on the Mississippi, near St. Louis. The record "raised
distinctly the question how far the jurisdiction in admiralty
was exclusive, and to what extent the State courts could
exercise a concurrent jurisdiction," and, owing to the importance of the principles involved, the "case was held
under advisement for some time, in order that every consideration which could influence the result might be deliberately
weighed."
The court affirm the judgment given in The
Jfkoses Taylor, and reassert the doctrine declared in the case
of The Genesee Chief, that the "principles of admiralty ju.
* 10 Wheaton, 428.

12 Id. 457.

t 5 Howaid, 441.
U 4 Wallace, 424.

$ 6 Id. 390.
I lb. 556.

Dec. 1868.]."

Tim

BELFAST.

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

risdiction, as conferred on the Federal courts by the Constitution, extend wherever ships float, and naviation successful4ly
aids commerce, whether internalorexternal." It further declares
that the grant of this power under the act of 1789, is exclusive not only of all other Federal courts, but of all other'
State ourts, and, therefore, State statutes which confer upon
State courts a remedy for marine torts and marine contracts,
by proceeding strictly in rem, are void.
The provisions of the Alabama code are those of the acts
quoted in the above recent cases, and are subject to the same
condemnation. Judgment, therefore, must be reversed.
Mr. Carlisle, contra:
1. The case arose in, and concerned al 6 ne, the internal commerce of the State of Alabama, and therefore it was one with
which the laws of that State only could deal. It lay whb6lly
beyond the region of Federal powers. And it is quite unimportant in what form, or by what system of pleading'and
evidence, the State might provide a remedy in such a case.
'The mere form cannot affect the substance. If the power
exercised be one belonging to the State5 and not to the Federal government, it does not concern the Federal government Whether it be exercised in one form or another;, or'
whether the proceeding be called a libel in admiralty, a bill
in equity, or an action at common law; 'whether given by
modern statute, or to be found in the Year Books.2
2. The particular remedy given by the Alabama statute,
-and adopted in these cases, is within the saving in the ninth
section of the Judiciary Act. What is meant, as well in the
act of 1789, as in the Constitution itself, by the "common.
law," has been settled by this court. The language of the
seventh amendment is:
"In suits at common law, when the value in controversy shall
exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be pre.
served."
* Gibbons v. Og7, 9 Wheaton, 204.

THE :BELFAST,

[Sup. Ct

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

The language of the ninth section, and that just quoted,
is obviously used in the same sense. Now in Parsons v.
Bedford,* the court say:
"By 'common law,' the framers of the amendment meant
what the Constitution denominated in the third article 'law;'
not merely suits, which the common law recognized among its
old and settled proceedings, but suits in which legal rights were
to be ascertained and determined, in contradistinction to those
where equitable rights alone were recognized, and equitable
remedies were administered; or where, as in admiralty, a mixtur6 of public law and of maritime law and equity were often
found in the same suit. Probably there were few, if any, States
in the Union in which some new legd remedies, differing from
the old common law forms, were not in use; but in which, however, the trial by jury intervened, and the general regulations
in other respects were according to the course of the common
law. Proceedinge in cases of partition and foreign and domestic
attachment might be cited as examples variously adopted aRd
modified."
To show that the case at bar is a " civil cause of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction," shows nothifig to the purpose, if
it also appear that there was a common law .'emedy at the
option of the suitors, and that they elected that remedy.
They.are the very persons who under the statute had the
right to do so.
It is not necessary to make a case one at common law, that
the suit be begun by the service of process, or by. actually
briliging into-court, in any other way, the party whose rights
are to be affected by the proceeding. A defendant may be
.brught into court as well by seizing his property, and bring
ing it into court, under circumstances giving him plain and
reasonable notice of the cause of its seizure. If the statute
makes provision for his personal appearance, and a day is
given to him in court, with the right of trial by jury, then
it is as much a common law case as if it had begun by a
"3 Peters, 446-7.

Dec. 1868.]

THE BELFAST.
Opinion of the court.

capias ad respondendum, instead of a seizure of his property.
And, on the other hand, though the suit be begun by a capias, and proceeded in throughout acoording to the most
exact forms of a common law suit in all things but one, to
wit, the trial by jury, if that be denied, -it is, no true case at
common law. It is this distinctive quality alone which ihe
Constitution guarantees and preserves from all innovation.
And there is no instance, in this cort in which, where the
subject-matter was 'the adjudication of pur~ly legar rights,.
and the right of the'trial by jury has been "preserved," in,
which the case'has been treated as other than a common law,
case, whether a concurrent remedy exited, either in admi-.
ralty or in equity or, not,'and whatever may have been 'the
mere form of the-proceedings.
Th'e Hine v. T-evor.is.po exception to this rule. There, as
the report shows, the're was, and could be, no jury trial. The
Iowa statute, on whieh ihat case rested, made np provision
to protect the owner of the vessel, and afforded him no opportunity, by his personal appearance, of coqverting the proceeding into a common law trial'by jury. The prodeeding'
was begun, continued, and ended, and could only be so, as a
civil law proceeding in rem.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Persons furnishing materials or supplies for ships or vessels, within the State of Alabama, have a lien by the law of
that State on the same for all debts contracted'bythe master,
owner, or consignee thereof for the work done* and for the
materials and supplies furnished, in preference to btlierdebts due and owing from the owners of such ships or vessels. By the code of that Stdte ,it is also provided, under
the title, "proceedings in admiralty," that whenever any
.steamboat or other water-craft shall receive on board, as a common carrier, any goods or merchandise as freight, to be
delivered at any specified place, and shall fail to deliver the
same as directed in the bill ?f lading or other contract of
shipment, the owner or consignee of such goods or merchandise shall-have a lien on such boat or other water-craft

THE BELFAST.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

for his loss or damage, to be enforced in the game manner
and subject to the rules and regulations prescribed in relation to similar liens for labor, materials, and supplies furnished to such steamboats or other water-craft, as described
in the anteaedent provision.*
Pursuant to those statutory rules and regulations of the
State, the libel in this case was filed in the City Court of
Mobile, and the libellants alleged that they, on the twentythird of January, 1866, shipped on board the steamboat
Belfast, then lying at Vienna in that State, one hundred
bales of cotton, to be transported to Mobile, in the same
State, and there to be delivered to certain consignees, they
paying freight therefor at the rate of five dollars per bale,
the dangers of the river excepted; that on the way down the
river, below Vienna, twenty-nine bales of the cotton were
lost, not by the dangers of the river, and were never delivered to the consignees, whereby the libellants suffered
loss to the amount of five thousand eight hundred dollars.
Introductory allegations of the libel, also, are the same as
in a libel in rem in the' District Courts of the United States;
and in conclusion, the "libellants pray process in admiralty"
against the steamer, "her tackle, apparel, and furnittlre,"
and that the same may be condemned to satisfy their damages and costs. Process was accordingly issued, commanding the sheriff to seize and take the steamer, &c., into his
possession, and to hold the same until released by due course
of law. Respondents appeared as claimants, and alleged
that they were the owners of the steamer, and they admitted
that the cotton was shipped on board at the time and place,
and on the terms and for the purpose alleged in the libel;
but they excepted to the jurisdiction of the court, and alleged that the steamer, at the time the cotton was shipped,
was duly enrolled and licensed under the laws of the United
States; that she was then and there regularly engaged in
commerce and navigation between the city of Columbus,
in the State of Mississippi, and the city of Mobile, in
* Revised'Code, H 3127, 3142.

Deb. 1868.]

THE BELPXST.
-Opinion of the-court.

the State of Alabama, and that the cotton described in
the libel was lost in her trip down the river from the
former city to- her port of destination. Defence of the re-:
-spondents .upon the merits was, that the steamer and cargo
were captured by a band of robbers in the trip down the
river, within the ebb and flow'of the tide, and within the
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the .United States,
and without 'any negligence' or fault on the.part of the officers and crew of the steamer. They also set up the defence,
that it was agreed between the,'master and the shippers.that
the vessel should nbt be liable for the loss of the cotton, if
'it was captured by armed men during the voyage, withou_
any negligence or fault on the part of the carrier. Libel]ants excepted to that part of the answer denying the jurisdiction of the court, as insufficient 'and invalid; and they
also excepte& to the defence, as pleaded, that the steamet
was robbed of the cotton, as no bar to a recovery in the-case,
and the court sustained the views of the libellants in both
particulars', and the respondents excepted to the respective
rulings of the court.
Two other consignments of cotton were also on board.the
steamer at the time fhe alleged robbery occurred. Ninety
bales wer'e' shipped by J. H'. 9teers & Company, at Columbus; and one hundred bales were hipped by..John Watson
& Company, at the same place. Both shipments were to be
transported to the port of Mobile,'and there to be delivered
to. certain consignees under a similar contract of aff:eightment as that alleged in the first case, except as to the price
to'be paid for the transportation.. Steers & Company lost
thirty-fdur bales of their s.hipment,, and Watson & Company
lost thirty'bales, as alleged by the respective parties. Libels
in the same form were also filed by those parties about the
sanie time, in-the same court, and the -owners of the steamer
appeared -in each case as clAimauts, and pleaded the same
defences' ii'the three cases.
Evidence was introduced by the respective liblellants,
proving that the entire cotton lost, 'aud not delivered, was
of the value of four thousand dollars. They also introduced

THE BPLFAST.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the. court.

the several bills of lading, and the respondeiats admitted, the
shipments as alleged in the respective libels. On -the other
hand, the libellants admitted that the steamer was robbed.
as alleged in the answer, and without any neglect or fault
of the owners of the steamer, or those in charge of her navigation.
Agreement of the parties, as stated in the bill of exceptions, was that the three cases should be tried together, and
they were all submitted at the same time and upon the same
issues. Finding of the court was that the .whole loss in the
three cases was four thousand dollars, and of that sum the
decree of the court allowed one thousand dollars to the
libellants in the first case, fonrteen hundred dollars to the
libellants in the second case, and sixteen hundred dollars to
the libellants in the third case, with costs to the prevailing
party.
Exceptions were seasonably tendered by the respondents
to the rulings and decision of the court, and the exceptious
were duly allowed by the court.. Appeals were then taken
by the respondents to the Supreme Court of the State, where
the objections to the jurisdiction of the court were renewed
in the formal assignment of errors. The parties were heard,
but the court overruled the objectionsto the jurisdiction of
the court, and affirmed the respective degrees rendered in
the subordinate court. Writs of error were then sued out
under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, and the
respective causes were removed into this court.
Jurisdiction of this court to re-examine the questions presented in the pleadings may be assumed as existing without
discussion, as it is conceded that the questions are the same
as were raised- and decided in the State courts, and it is not
controverted that the questions are such as may be re-examined here under the twenty-fifth section of.the Judiciary
Act.
Theory of the .respondents is, that the respective libels
were libels in rem to enforce a maritime lien in favor of the
shippers of the cotton, under contracts of affreightment for
the transportation of goods and merchandise from one port

Dec. 1868.]

TiE

BELFAST.

635

Opinion of the court.

to .another upon navigable maters, and that the State courts
have no jurisdiction to employ such a process to enforce
such a lien in any case; that the jurisdiction to enforce a
maritime l5in by a proceeding in rem- is exclusively vested
in the Federal courts by the Constitution of the United
States and the laws of Congress. Btit the libellants controvert that proposition, and insist that the State coirts have
concurrent -jurisdiction in these cases under that clause in
the ninth section of the. Judiqiary Act, which saves "to
suitors in all cases the right of a common law remedy where
the common law is competent to give it."*
2. They also contend, if their first proposition is not sustained, that inasmuch as the three cases were heard together,
under an agreement that they should be tried upon the same
issues, and that the libel- filed by W. C. Boon & Company,
as stated in the bill of exceptions, was seleted as the case
to be tried in the court where the suits were commenced,
the- rights of the parties in the other two. cases must abide
the decision of this court in that case.
Assuming that to be so, then they contend that the State
court had jurisdictioi. in the first case, because the contract
of af 'eightment. was for the transiportation of goods and
merchandise between ports and places in the same State.
Impliedly, the argument admits that the rule is 'otherwise
where the contract is for-the traisportation of goods and
merchandise between ports and places in different States;
but the proposition is, that where the contract is between
citizens of the same State, for the tt'ansportation of go-ds
and merchandise from one port to another in the same State,
the case i6 not one within. the jurisdiction of the admiralty
courts of the United States, unless it becomes necessary, in
the course of the voyage, to carry the goods or merchandise
into or through some other State or foreign dominion.
Obviously the questions presented are questions of very
great importance, as affecting the construction of the Federal Constitution, and the rights and remedies of the citizens
* 1 Stat. at Large, 77:

THE BELFAST.

[Sup. Gt,

Opinion of the courL

engaged in an important and lucrative branch of commerce
and navigation.
Judicial power to hear and determine controversies in admiralty, like other judicial power, was conferred upon the
government of the United -States by the Federal Constitu
tion, and, by the express terms of the instrument, it extends
to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction; which,
doubtless, must be held to mean all such cases of a maritime
character as were cognizable in the admiralty courts of the
States at the time the Constitution was adopted.*
Admiralty jurisdiction, as exercised in-the Federal courts,
is not restricted to the subjects cognizable in the English
courts of admiralty at the date of the Revolution, nor is it as
extensive as that exercised by the continental courts, organized under, and governed by, the principles of the civil law.t
Best guides as to the extent of the admiralty jurisdiction
of the Federal courts, are the Constitution of the United
States, the laws of Congress, and the decisions of-this court.
Two of the contracts of affreightment in these cases, were
for the transportation of otton between ports and places in
different States; but as the contract alleged in the libel filed
in the first case, was for the transportation of cotton from one
port to another, in the same State, it becomes necessary to
determine, irrespective of the questions presented in the
other cases, whether such a contract is cognizable in the admiralty courts of the United States, because, if not, the libellants, in any view of the case, must prevail, as there would
be, in that state of the case, no jurisdiction in this court to
re-examine the decision of the State court in that case.
Much controversy has existed as to the true extent of the
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the Federal courts,
but great aid will be derived in the solution of this queftion
by an examination of the decisions of this court at different
periods since the judicial system of the United- States was
organized.
* Waring et al. v. Chrke, 5 Howard, 454.

t Bags of Linseed, 1 Black, 108.

Dec. 1868.]

THE BELPA5T.
Opinion of the court.

Principal sabjects of admiralty jurisdiction are maritime
contracts and maritime torts, including captures jure belli,
and seizures on water for municipal and revenue forfeitures.
(1.) Contracts,- claims, or service, purely maritime, and
touching rights*and duties appertaining to commerce and
navigation, are cognizable in the admiralty.*
(2.) Torts or injuries committed on navigable waters, of a
civil nature, are also cognizable in theadmiralty courts.
Jurisdiction in the former case depends upon the nature
of the contract, but in the latter it depends entirely upon
locality. Mistakes need not be made if these rules are observed; bdit contracts to be performed on waters not navigable, are not maritime any more than those made to be
performed on laud. Nor are torts- cognizable in the admiralty unless committed on waters within the admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction, as defined by law.t
Such jurisdiction whether of torts or of contracts, was,
and still is, restricted in the*parent country to tide-waters,
as they have no large fresh-water lakes or fresh-water rivers
which are navigable. Waters where the tide did not ebb
and flow, were regarded in that country as not within the
admiralty and. maritime jurisdiction; and such was the decision of this court inthe case of The Jefferson,j and the rule
established ifi that case was followed for more than a quarter-of a century.
Attempt wassubsequently made to restrict the jurisdiction
bf the adImiralty courts in torts to cases arising on the high
seas, but this court 4pld that it extended to all waters within
the ebb and flow'of the. tid6, though infra corpus cornilatus,and
as far up the rivers emptying into the sea or bays and arms
of the sea, as the tide ebbed and flowed. And that rule, ever
after it was promulgated, prevailed, and was universally applied 'by the District Courts in cases of collision.§
Application of that rule wtis made by the Federal courts
I Conklin's Admiralty, 19.
- The Commerce, 1 Bla k, 5.79; 2 Story on the Constitution (3d ed.),
J 166C-1669.
Waring et al. v. Clarke, 6 Howard, 549.
W
1 10 Wheaton, 428.

THE BELFAST.

[Slip. Ctk

Opinion of the court.

in collision cases arising upon the Hudson, the Penobscot,
the Kennebec, the Merrimac, the Alabama, and many other
rivers navigable only between ports and places in one State.
Exclusive original cognizance 6f all civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, was conferred upon the'District Courts by the ninth section of the Jndiciary Act, ineluding all seizures under the laws of impost, navigation, or
trade of the United States, where the seizures are made on
waters which are navigable from the sea by vessels of ten
or more tons burden, within their respective districts as well
as upon the high seas.
Remedies for marine torts, it is conceded, may be sought
in the admiralty courts under that provision, although committed within the body of a county, but it is denied that
redress can be obtained in the admiralty for the breach of a
contract of affreightmont in a case where the port of shipment and the port of destination are in the same State.
Repeated attempts were made at an early day to induce
the courft to hold that seizures on water were not cases of
admiralty cognizance, and that contracts of affreightment
were exclusively cognizable in the courts of common law;
but this court refused to adopt either proposition, and held
that the entire admiralty power of the Constitution was
lodged in the Federal courts, and that Congress intended
by the ninth section of the Judiciary Act to invest the District Courts with that power as courts of original jurisdiction; that the phrase, "exclusive original cognizance," was
used for that purpose, and was intended to be exclusive of
the State courts as well as the other Federal courts.*
When the case of The Lexington was decided, it was still
supposed that the admiralty jurisdiction was limited to
waters affected by the ebb and flow of the tide, but the
case is a decisive authority to show that the jurisdiction of
the admiralty, in matters of contract, was understood to be
coextensive with the jurisdiction in cases of marine torte.
The Lexington, 6 Howard, 390; The Vengeance, 3 Dallas. 297; The
Betsey, 4 Oranch, 443; The Samuel, 1 Wheaton, 9; The Octavia, lb. 20.

Dec. 1868.]

THE BELFAST.
Opinion-of the court.

Subject-matter of the suit in the case of Waring et at. v.
Clarke, was that of a collision, and the subject-matter in the
case .of Te Lexington was a loss of specie in transitu, under a
contract of afreightment. Viewed in any light, those two
cases settle the question that where the voyage and transportation are over tide-waters, the jurisdiction of the admiraity
is the same in matters in maritime contracts as in marine
torts.
Such was the state of the law upon the subject, as decided by this court, when the case of The Geniee Cldef* was
brought here for re-examination; and in that case this court
held that the jurisdiction in admiralty depended, not upon
the ebb and flow of the tide, but upon the navigable character of the water; that if the water was navigable, it was
deemed to be public, and if public, that it was regarded as
within the legitimate scope of the admiralty jurisdiction conferred by the Constitition.
Prior to that decision, the Western lakes arid navigable
rivers of the United States, above tide-waters, were not supposed to:'be waters within the admiralty and maritimej urisdiction of the Federal courts. Strange as that proposition may
now appear to one familiar with the provision contained in
the ninth section of the Judiciary Act, it is nevertheless true
that the rule restricting a(diralty jurisdiction to tide-waters
had prevailed from the organization of the judicial system to
that date, but the effect of that decision was to dispel that
error and place the admiralty jurisdiction upon its true constitutional and legal basis, as defined in the Constitution of
the United States and the laws of Congress.
Subsequent decision of this court, in the case of The"MuJnolia, was, that the admiralty jurisdiction of the Feder.al
courts extends to cases of collision upon navigable water%
although the place of the collision may be within the liody
of a county and above the ebb anid flow of the tide; and this
court also held in that case that the District Courts exercise
jurisdiction over fresh-water rivers, "navigable from the
* 12 Howard, 457.

640

THE BELFAST.

[Sup.

(it.,

Opinion of the court.

sea," by virtue of the ninth section of the Judiciary Act,
and not as conferred by the act of the 26th of February,
1845, which is applicable only to the "lakes, and navigable
waters connecting said lakes."*
Direct proposition of the Tespondents in the case of. The
Commereet was, that tl~e case before the court, which was a
collision on the Hudson River, was not a case cognizable in
the admiralty, because it did not appear that either of the
vessels was engaged in foreign commerce, or in commerce
among the several States; but the court held that judicial
power in all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction
was conferred by the Constitution, and that in cases of tort
the question of-jurisdiction was wholly unaffected by the
considerations suggested in that proposition; and we reaffirm the rule there laid down, that locality is the true test
of admiralty cognizance in all cases of marine torts; that if
it appears, as in cases of collision, depredations aipon property, illegal dispossession of ships, or seizures for the violation of the revenue laws, that the wrongful act was committed on navigable waters, within the admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction of the, United States, then the case is one properly cognizable in the admiralty.1
Navigable rivers, which empty into the sea, or into the
bays and gulfs which form a.part of the sea, are but arms
of the sea, and are as much within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the United States as the sea itself.
Difficulties attend every attempt to define the exact limits
of admiralty jurisdiction; but it cannot be made to depend
upon the power of Congress to regulate commerce, as conferred in the Constitution. They are entirely distinct things,
having no necessary connection with one another, and are
conferred, in the Constitution, by separate and distinct
grants.§
Congress may regulate commerce with foreign nations
The Magnolia, 20 Howard, 296; 5 Stat. at Large, 516.
1 Black, 678.
t 2 Story on the Constitution, 1669.
The Genesee Chief, 12 Howard, 452.

D~c. 1868.]

tlE

R ETFAST.

Opinion oftlfe court.

_

and among the several-States, but the jhdicial power; which,
among other things, extends to all cases of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction, was conferred upon the Federal government by the Constitutlon, and Congress cannot enlarge,
it, not even to suit the wants of commerce, nor for the more
convenient execution of its commercial regulatious.*
Remarks, it is conceded, are found in the opini6n of the
court in the case of'Allen et al. v. Newbery,t inconsistentwith
these views; but they were not necessary to that decision,
as the contract in that case was for the transportation of
goods .on one of the Western lakes, where the jurisdiction
in admiralty is restricted, by an act of Congress, to steamloats and other vessels .... employed in the business of
commerce and navigation, between ports and places in different States and Territories.1
I No such restrictions are contained in the ninth section
of
the Judiciary Act, and conseque'tly those remarks, as applied to a case falling within that provision, must be regarded
as incorrect.
Such a rule, if applied to the commerce and navigation, of'
the Atlantic coast, would produce incalculable mischief, as
the vessels in many cases,.even in voyages from one port in
a State to another port in the same State, are obliged, inthe
'course of the voyage, to go outside of any particular State,
and it would not be difficult td give examples where more
than half the voyage is necessarily upon the high seas.
Unless the admiralty has jurisdiction, in such a case, to, enforce the maritimelien, in case of a collision oi jettison, it
isdifficult to see to what forum the injured party can resort
bor redress. Piracy, it is said, is justiciable everywhere, but
it cannot: be admitted that maritime torts are justiciable
nowhere.
Unable to deny that the admiralty has jurisdiction over
marine torts, though the voyage is between ports and places'
in the- same State, the advocates of the more'restricted-juris.
* The St. Lawrence, 1 Black, 526.

$ The Hin v. Trevor, 4 Wallace, 555.
vOL. vI.
41

f 21 Howard, 245.

THE BELPAST

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court

diction over maritime -.ontrticta set up a distinction, and
contend that the admii'altyjurisdiction over such contracts
is limited by tue power granted to Congress to regulate
commerce. Reference -may-be made to the case of Maguire
v. Gard,* as one.wherethaf distinctio i was adopted;, but the
decisive answer to thst case, and the one preceding it in
-the same volume will. be found in the later cases already
ieferred to, and in the'.case of The Mary Washinglon,t where
t'he-opinion was given by the present Chief Justice. All
three of the cases, therefore, as well the case of W. C. Boon
& Company as the other two, are cases within the admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction of the Federal courts.
I. Suppose that to be so, then, it is contended by the
'ibellants, in the second place, that all three of the original
actions were well brought in the State court as a court of
concurrentjurisdiction with the District Courts of the United
States in admiralty, and that the particular remedy, givcn
by the statute of the' State, and adopted in these cases, is
within the true intent and meaning of the saving clause in
the ninth section of the Judiciary Act.
Wherever a maritime lien arises the injured party may pursue his remedy, whbther for a breach of a maritime contract
or for a marine tort, by a suit in rem, or by a suit inpersonam,
at his election. Attention will be called to three classes of'
cases only as examples to illustrate that proposition; but
inaiiy mbre might be given to the same effect.
Shippers have a lien by the maritime law upon the vessel
,employed in the transportation of their good&and merchandise from one port to another, as a security for the fulfilment
of the contract of the carrier, that he will safely keep, duly
transport, and rightly deliver the goods and merchandise
shipped on board, as stipulated ini the bill of lading or other
cojitract of shipment.1
Owners of vessels damaged by colli;-on, occasioned without fault on their part, and. wholly through the fault of those
* 21 Howard, 249.

t

14 American Law Rezister, 692.

* The Bird of Paradisd, .5 'Wallace, 545; The Eddy, It. 481; Bags of
Linseed, 1 Black, 112 Maude & Pollock on Shipping, 254.

Dec. 1868.]

THE BE LFAST.

698'

Opinion of the court.

in charge of the colliding vessel, also have a maritime lien
on the vessel in fault as a security for such damages as may
be awarded to them in the admiralty for the injury thereby
caused to their vessel, and they may proceed in rem to enforce their claim for the damages, or they may waive the lien
and bring their suit in rersonam against the master or owners of the vessel.*
Material-men, also, who furnish materials or supplies for
a vessel in a foreign port, -or in a port other than a'p6it of
the State where the vessel belongs, have a maritime lien on
the vessel as a security for the payment of the price of all
such materials and supplies. They have such a lien because,
upon the principles of the maritime law, such materials and
supplies are presumed to be furnished on the credit of the
vessel, and consequently they are entitled to proceed in 'rem
in the admiralty court to enfbrce -the lien, but they are not
compelled- to do so, as they may waive thd lien and bring.
their suit in personam against the master or owners, as they
are also liable as well as the vessel.t
None of these principles are controverted, but the libellauts contend that the State courts have concurrent jurisdiction to afford the parties the same remedies inall such cases.
No warrant for that proposition, however, is found in the
ninth section of the Judiciary Act, nor in any other part of
that fundamental regulation of bur judicial system. On the
contrary, the exclusive original cognizance of all .civil causes
of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction is, by the very terms
of that section, conferred upon the District Courts of the
Uuited States, "saving to suitors in all cases the right of a
common law remedy where the common law is competent to
give it." Nothing is said about a concurrent jurisdiction iii
a State court or in any other court, and it is quite clear that
in all cases where the parties are citizens of different States,
the injured party may pursue the common law remedy here
* Sturgis v. Boyer et al., 24 Howard, 117; Chamberlain v. Ward, 21
Id. 553.
t The St. Lawrence, 1 Black, 529; Manro v.Alneida, 10 Wheaton, 473
The Reinder,, 2 Wallace, 384; The General Smith, 4 Wheaton, 438.

THE BFLFAST.

I

Ls p.C

Opinion of the court.

described and saved,. in the Circuit Court of the district as
well as in the State courts.
Original cognizance is exclusive in the District Courts,
except that' the suitor may, if he sees 'it, elect to pursue a
common law remedy in the State courts or in the Ci'cuit
Court,' as before explained, in all cases where such a remedy
is applicable. Common law remedies are not applicab!e to
enforce a maritime lien by a proceeding in rem, and consequently the original jurisdiction to enforce such a lien by
that mode of proceeding is exclusive'in the District Courts.*
State legislatures have no authority to create a maritime
lien, nor can they confer any jurisdiction upon a State
court to enforce such a lien by a suit or proceeding in rem,
as practised in the admiralty Courts. Observe the language
of the saving clause under consideration. It is to suitors,
and not to the State courts, nor to the Circuit' Courts of the
United States. Examined carefully it is evident that Congress intended by that 'provision to allow the party to seek
redress in the admiralty if he saw fit to do so, but not to
mike it compulsory in any case where the common law is
competent to give him a remedy. Properly construed, a
party under that provision may proceed in rem in the admiralty, or' he may bring a suit in personam in the same jurisdiction, or he may' elect not to go into adniralty at all,
and may resort to his corpmon law remedy in the State
courts or-in the Circuit Court of the United States, if he
can make proper parties to give that court jurisdiction of
his case.
Undoubtedly most common law remedies in cases of contract and tort, as given in common law courts, and suits in
personam in the Admiralty courts, bear a strong resemblance
to each other, and it is not, perhaps, inaccurate to regard the
two jurisdictions in that behalf as concurrent, but there is
no form of action at common law which, when compared
with the proceeding in rem in the admiralty, can be regarded
as a concurrent remedy.
* The Moses Taylor, 4 Wallace, 411.

Dep. 1868.1,

THE 'BELFAST.
. I
Op'nion.of the court.-

Consignees or shippers may proceed in the admiraltyin
ren against the vessel to enforce tleir maritime lien, or they
may waive that lien and still proceed in the admiralty in personam against the owners of the vessel to recover damages
for the non-fulfilment of the contract, or they may elect to
bring a common action against the owners to recover damage6, as in other cases for the breach' of a contract to be executed on land.
Proceedings in a suit at common'law on a contract of.,
affreightment are precisely the same as in suits on contractO
not regarded a's maritime, wholly irrespective of the fact that
the injured party might haye sought redress iii the admiralty.
When. properly brought, the suit is against the owners of
the vessel, and hi States where there are attachment laws the
plaintiff may attach any property "nt exempted from execu'tion, belonging to.the defendants.
Liability of the owners of the'vessel under the coftract
being the foundation of the suit, nothing can finally be heldunder the attachment except the interdst of the owners in
the vessel, because the vessel is held under the attachment
as the'property of the defendants, and not as the offending
thing, as in the case of a proceeding in rem to enforce a
maritime lien. Attachment in such suits may be of the
property of non-residents or of defendants abseht from the
State, as in suits on contracts not maritime, and the same
rules apply in respect to the*service of process and notice to
the defendants.
Applying these rules to the cases before the court, it is
obvious that the jurisdiction exercised by the State court
was of the precise character which is exclusive in the D'strict Courts of 'the United States sitting in admiralty. Authority does not exist in the State courts to hear and deter'
mine a suit in ren in admiralty to enforce a maritime lien.
Such a lien does not arise in a contract for materials and
supplies furnished to a vessel in her home port, and in respect
to such contracts it is-competent for the States, under the
decisions Qf this court, to create such liens as their legislatures may deem just and expedient, not amounting to a

WHITE'S

BANK V. SMITH.

[Sup. C.

Statement of the case.

regulation of commerce, and to enact reasonable rules and
regulations prescribing the mode of their enforcement.*
Contracts for shipbuilding are held not to be maritime
contracts, and, of course, they fall within the same category,
but in all cases where a maritime lien arises, the original
jurisdiction to enforce the same by a proceeding in ren is
exclusive in the District Courts of the United States, as provided in the ninth section of the Judiciary Act.t
Respective decrees REVERSED, and the several causes remanded, with instructions to
DISMIss

THE RESPECTIVE LIBELS.

WHITE'S BANK V. SMITIL
1. Under the act of Congress of July 29th, 1850, enacting"That no bill of sale, mortgage, hypothecation, or conveyance of any
vessel, or part of any vessel, of the United States, shall be valid against
any person other than the grantor or mortgagor, his heirs and devisees,
and persons having actual notice thereof, unless such bill of sale, mortgage, hypothecation, or conveyance, be recorded in the office of the
collector of the customs where such vessel is regi.,tered or enrolled,"
a recording of a mortgage in the office of the collector of the home port
of the vessel has the effect, by itsown force and irrespective of any formalities required by a State statute to give effect to chattel mortgages,
to give the mortgagee a preference over a subsequent purchaser or mortgagee.
2. The home port of the vessel is the port in the office of whose collector
the bill of sale, mortgage, &c., should be recorded; not the port of last
registry or enrolment when not such home port.
3. The act is constitutional.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Norfhern District of
New York.
The case was this:
An act of Congress, "providing for the recording of con.
* The General Smith, 4 Wheaton, 438; The St. Lawrence, 1 Black, 529

Ferry Company v.Beers, 20 Howard, 402.

