Ex

PARTE MCCARDLE.

[Sup. C.

Syllabus.

Universal rule is that where an instrument will bear two
constructions equally consistent with its language, one of
which will render it operative and the other void, the former
will be preferred.*
Theory of the defendants is that the note is usurious and
illegal on its face, but the authorities are clearly the other
way, that the presumption is that the note was given upon a
state of fictq which authorized the taking of the instrument,
and that the coutract was lawful and valid.t
Tested as matter of principle, or by the decided cases, the
better opinion is that the presumption is that such a contract
'is valid and not usurious, and that the burden to prove the
contrary is upon the ptrty who makes the charge.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Ex

PARTE MOCARDLE.

1. The appellate jurisdiction of this court is conferred by the Constitution,
and not derived from acts of Congress; but is conferred "with such exceptions, and under such regulations, as Congress may make;" and,
therefore, acts of Congress affirming such jurisdiction, have always
been construed as ,excepting from it all cases not expressly described
and provided for.
2. When, therefore, Congress enacts that this court shall have appellate
jurisdiction over final decisions of the Circuit Courts, in certain cases,
the act operates as a negation or exception of such jurisdiction in other
cases; and the repeal of the act necessarily negatives jurisdiction under
it of these cases also.
3. The repeal of such an act, pending an appeal provided for by it, is not an
exercise of judicial'power by the legislature, no matter whether the repeal takes effect before or after argument of the appeal.
4. The act of 27th of March, 1868, repealing that provision of the act of 6th
of February, 1867, to amend the Judicial Act of 1789, which authorized
appeals to this count from'the decisions of the Circuit Courts, in.cases
of habeas corpus, does not except from the appellate jurisdiction of this
Archibald v. Thomas, 3 Cowen, 290.
Andrews et al. v. Hart et al., 17 Wisconsin, 807; Leavitt v. Pell, 27 -Bar
bour, 332; -Levy v. Hampton, 1 McCord, 147.

Dec. 1868.]

EX PARTE MOCARDLE.
Statement of the case.

court any cases but appeals under the-act of 1867. It does not affect
the appollate 'jurisdiction which was previously exercised in cases of
habeas corpus.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of Mississippi.
The case was this:
The Constitution of the United States ordains is fbllows:
"§ 1. The judicial power of the United States shall be vested
in one Supreme Court, and in such inferior courts as the Congress may from time to time ordain and establish."
"§ 2. The judicial power shall extend to all cases in law or
equity arising' under this Constitution, the laws of the United
States," &c.
And in these last cases the Constitution ordains that,
"The Supieme Court shall have appellate jurisdiction, both
as to law and fact, with such exceptions, and under such regula.
tions, as the Congress shall make."
With these constitutional .provisions in existence,- Congress, on the 5th February, 1867, by "An act to amend

an act to establish the judicial courts of the United States,
approved 'September 24, 178b," provided that the several
courts" of the United States, and the several justices and
judges of such courts, within their respective jurisdiction,
in addition to the authority already conferred by lav, should
have power to'grant writs of habeas corpus in all cases where
any person may be restrained of his or her liberty in violation of the Constitution, oe of any -treaty or law of the
United States. 'And that, 'rom the final decision of any
* judge, justice,-or court inferior to the Circuit Court, appeal
might be taken to the Circuit Court of the United States
.for th6 district in which the cause wan heard, and from the
judgment of the said Circuit Court to the Supreme Court of the
United States.
This statate being .in force, one MeCardle, alleging unlawful rest: aint by military force, preferred a petition in the
court below, for the writ of habeas corpus.

Ex

PARTE MOCARDLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The writ was issued, and a return was made by the military commander, admitting the restraint, but denying that
it was unlawful.
It appeared that the petitioner was not in the military
service of the United States, bat was held in custody by
military authority for trial before a military commission,
upon charges founded upon the publication of articles alleged to be incendiary and libellous, in a newspaper of'
which he was editor. The custody was alleged to be under
the authority of certain acts of Congress.
Upon the hearing, the petitioner was remanded to the
military custody; but, upon his prayer, an appeal was allowed him to this court, and upon filing the usual appealbond, for costs, he was admitted to bail upon recognizance,
with sureties, conditioned for his future appearance in the
Circuit Court, to abide by and perform the final judgment
of this court. The appeal was taken under the above-mentioned act of February 5, 1867.
A motion to dismiss this-appeal was made at the last
term, and, after argument, was denied.*
Subsequently, on the 2d, 3d, 4th, and 9th March, the case
was argued very thoroughly and ably upon the merits, and
was taken under advisement. While it was thus held, and
before conference in regard to the decision proper to. be
made,-an act was passed by Congress,t returned with objections by the President, and, on the,27th March, repassed by
the, constitutional majority, thd second section of which was
as follows:
"And be it further enacted, That so much of the act approved
February 5, 1867, entitled 'An act to amend an act to establish
the judiial courts of the United States, approved September 24,
1789,' as authorized an appeal from the judgment of the Circuit
Co.urt to the Supreme-Court of the United States, or the exercise of any such jurisdicti.9n by said Supreme Court, on appeals
which have been, or mayhereafter be taken, be, and the same
is' hereby repealed."
See Ex parte McCardle, 6 Wallace, 318.
t Act o" March 27, 1868, 15 Stat. at Large, 44.

Dec. 1868.]

EX PARTE MtCARDLE.
&rgument against the operation of the act.

The attention of the court ras' directed to this statute at
the last term.' Dut counsel having'expressed a desire to be
heard in argument upon -its effect, and the Chief Justice
being detained from his place herej by his duties in the
Court of Impeachment, the cause was continued under advisement. Argument was now heard upon the effect of the
repealing act.
Mr. Sharkey, for the appeltant:
The prisoner alleged an illegal imprisonment. The imprisonment was justified under certain acts of Congress.
The question then presents a case arising under "the laws
of the United States;" and by the very words of the Constitution the judicial power of the United States extends to it.
By words of the Constitution, equally plain, that judicial
power-is vested in one Supreme Court. This court, then,
has its jurisdidtion directly from the Constitution, not from
Congress. The jurisdiction being vested .by the Constitution alone, Congress 6annot abridge or take it aw-ay. The
argument which would look to Congressional legislation as
a necessity to enable this court to exercise "the judicial
power" (any and every judici.d power) "of the United
States," renders a power, expres.ily given by the Constitution, liable to be made of no effiect by the inaction of Congress. Suppose that Congress never made any exceptions
or any regulations in the-pnatter. What, under a supposition
that Congress must define when, and where, and how, the
Supreme Court shall exercise it, becomes of this "judicial
power of the United States," so expressly, by the Constitution, given to this court? It would cease to exist. But this
court is coexistent and co-ordinate with Congress, and must
be able to exercise the whole judicial power of the United
States, though Congress passed no act on the subject. The
Judiciary Act of 1789 has been Trequently changed. Suppose it were repealed. Would the court lose, wholly or at
all, the power to pass on every case to which the judicial
power of th~eUnited .States extended? -This act of March
27th, 1868, does, take away the whole appellate power 6f

Ex PARTE MCCARDLE.

[p
[Sup. Ct

Argument against the operation of the act.

this court in cases of habeas corpus. Can such results be produced? We submit that they cannot, and this court, then,
we further submit, may still go on and pronounce judgment
on the merits, as it would have done, had not the act of 27th
March been passed.
But however these general positions may be, the case may
be rested on more special grounds. This case-had been
argued in this court, fully. Passing then from the domain
of the bar, it was delivered into the sacred hands of the
judges; and was in the cuotody of the court. For aught
that was known by Congress, it was passed upon and decided by them. Then comes, on the 27th of March, this
ac't of Congress. Its language is general, but, as was universally known, its purpose was specific. If Congress had
specifically enacted ' that the Supreme Court of the United
States shall never publicly give judgment in the case of
McCardle, already argued, and on which we anticipate that
it will soon deliver judgment, contrary to the views of the
majority in Congress, of what it ought to decide,' its purpose to interfere specifically with and prevent the j.udgmeut
in this very case would not have been more real or, as a fact,
more universally known.
Now, can Congress thus interfere with cases on which
this high tribunal has passed, or is, passing, judgment ? Is
not legfslation like this an. exercise by the Congress of judicial power? Lanier v. Gallatas*is much in point. There
a motion was made to dismiss an appeal, because by law the
return-day was the 4th Monday in February, while in the
case hefore the court the transcript had been filed before
that~ime. On the 15th of March, and while the case was
under advisement, the legislature passed an act making the
20th of March a return day for the case; and a motion was
now made to reinstate the case and hear it. The court say:
"The case had been submitted to us before the passage of that
act, and was beyond the legislative control. Our respect for the
* 13 Louisiana Annual, 17

Dec. 1868.]

511"

EX PARTE MOCARDLE.

Argument for the operation of the act.

General Assembly and Executive forbids the inference that they
intended to instruct this court what to do or not to do whilst
passing on the legal rights of parties in a special ease already
under advisement. The utmost that we can suppose is," &c.
In -De Chastellux v. Fairchild,*the legislature of Pennsylvania directed that a new trial should be granted in a case
already decided. Gibson, 0. J., in behalf of the court, resented the interference strongly. He said:
"It has become the duty of the court to temporize no longer.
The power to order new trials is judicial. But the power of the
legislature is not judicial."
In The State v. Fleminq,t where the legislature of Tennessee directed two persons under indictment to be discharged,. the Supreme Court of the State, declaring that
"the legislature has no power to interfere with the administration of justice in the courts," treated the direction as
void. In Lewis v. Webb,t the Supreme Court of Maine declare that the legislature cannot dispeirse with any general
law in fiwor of a particular case.
Afessrs. L. Trumbull and ff. RI. CaTenter, contra:
1. Tle Constitution gives to this court appellate jurisdiction in any case like the present one was, only with such
exceptions and under such regulations as Congress makes.
2. It is clear, then, that this court had no jurisdiction of
this proceeding-an appeal from the Circuit Court- except
under the act of February 5th, 1867; and so this court held
on the motion to dismiss made by us at the last term.§
3. The act conferring the jurisdiction having been repealed, the jurisdiction ceased; and the court had thereafter
no authority to pronounce any opinion or render any judgment in this cause. No court call do any act in any case,
.without jurisdiction of the subject-matter. It can make
no difference at what point, in the progress of a cause, the
15 Pennsylvania State, 18.

3 Greenleaf, 826.

t 7 Humpbreys, 152.

6 Wallace , 318.

EX PARtE MCCARDLE.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

jurisdiction ceases. After it has ceased, no judicial act can
be performed. In Insurance Company v. Rilchie,* the Chief
Justice, delivering the opinion of the court, says:
"It is clear, that when the jurisdiction of a cause depends
upon the statute, the repeal of the statute takes away the jurisdiction."
And in that case the repealing statute, which was passed
during the pendency of the cause, was held to deprive the
court of all further jurisdiction. The causes which were
pending in this court against States, were all dismissed by
the amendment of the Constitution deny'ing the jurisdiction;
and no further proceedings were had in those causes.t In
Norris v. Crocker,j this court affirmed and acted upon the
same principle; and the exhaustive argument of the present
Chief Justice, then at the bar, reported in that case, and the
numerous authorities there cited, render any further argument or citation of cases unnecessary.§
4. The assumption that the act of March, 1868, was aimed
specially at this case, is gratuitous and unwarrantable. Certainly the language of the act embraces all cases in all time;
and its effect is just as broad as its language.
The question of merits cannot now, the.refore, be passed
upon. The case must fall.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The first question necessarily is that of jurisdiction; for,
if the act of March, 1868, takes away the jurisdiction defined
by the act of February, 1867, it is useless, if not improper,
to enter into any discussion of other questions.
It is quite true, as was argued by the counsel for the petitioner, that the appellate jurisdiction of this court is not derived from acts of Congress. It is, strictly speaking, con.
* 5 Wallace, 544.

t

t Hollingsworth v. Virginia, 3 Dallas, 378.

13 Howard, 429.

Rex v. Justices of London, 3 Burrow, 1466; Yeaton -. United States, 5
Cranch, 281; Schooner Rachel v. United States, 6 Id. 329; United States

v. Preston, 3 Peters, 57; Com. v. Marshall, 11 Pickering, 360.

Dec. 1868.]

Ex PARTE M CARDLE.
Opinion of the court.

ferred.by the Constitftion. But it is conferred "with such
-exceptions and under such regulations as Congress shall
make."
It is unn'ecessary to consider 'whether, if Cougress shad
made no exceptions and no regulations, this court might
not have exercised general appellate jurisdiction unider rules
prescribed by itself. For among the'earliest acts of the first
Congress, at its first session, was the act of September 24th,
1789, to establish the judicial courts of the United States.
That act provided for the organization of this court, and
prescribed regulations for the exercise of its jurisdiction.
The source of that jurisdiction, and the limitations of it,
by ihe -Constitution and by statute, have been on several
occasions subjects of consideration here. In the case of
Durousseauv. The United States,* particularly, the Whole mat-.
ter was carefully examined, and the court held, that while
"the appellate, powers of this court are not given by the,
judicial act, but are given by the Constitgtion," they nre,
nevertheless, "limited and regulated by that act, and by
such other acts as have been passed on the subject." The
court said, further, that- the judicial act was an exercise of'
the power given by the Constitution to Congress "of making exceptions to the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme
Court." "They have described affirmatively," said the court,
."its jurisdiction, and this affirinative description 'has been
understood to impljr a negation of the exercise of such appellate power as is not comprehended within ii."
The principle that-the affirmation of appellate jurisdiction
implies the negation of all such jurisdiction not affirmed
having been thus established; it was an almost necessary
consequence that acts of Congress, providing for tie exercise of jurisdiction, should come to be spoken- of as acts
granting jurisdiction, and not as acts making *exceptionsto
the constitutional grant of it..
The exception to appellate jurisdiction in the
case before
us, however, is not an inference from the affirmation of other
• 6 Cranch, 812; Wiseart v. Dauchy, 3 Dallas, 321.
VOL. VIL

3

Ex

PARTE &ICGARDLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of-the court.

appellate jurisdiction.

It is'made in terms,

Theprovision

of the act of 1867,'affirming the appellate jurisdiction of this
court in cases of habeas corpus is expressly.repealed. It is
hardly possible to imagine a plainer instance of positive
exception.
'We are not at liberty to inquire into the motives of the
legislature. We can only examine into its power under the
Constitution; and the power to make exceptions to the appellate jurisdictionof this court is given by express words.
What, then, is the effect of the repealing act upon the
case tefore us? We cannot doubt as to this. Without
jurisdiction the court cannot proceed at all in any cause.
Jurisdiction is power to declare the law, and when it ceases
to exist, the only function remaining to the court is that of
announcing the fact and dismissing the cause. .And this is
not less clear upon authority, than upon principle.
Several cases were cited by the counsel for the petitioner
in support of the position that jurisdiction of this case is not
affected by the repealing act. But none of them, in our
judgment, afford any support to it. They are all cases of
the exercise of judicial power by the legislature, or of legislative interference with courts in the exercising of continuing
jurisdiction.*
On the other hand, the general rule, supported by the
best elementary writers,t is, that "when an act of the legislature is repealed, it must be considered, except as to transactions past and closed, as if it never existed." And the
effect of repealing acts upon suits under acts repealed, ha-s
been determined by the adjudications of this court. The
subject was fully considered in Vorris v. Orocke,t and mor.recently in Insurance Company v. -ilchie.§ In both of these
cases it was held that no judgment could be rendered in a
suit after the repeal .of the act under which it was brought
ati prosecuted.
- Lanier v. Gallatas, 13 Louisiana Annual, 175; De Chastellux v. Fair-

child, 15 Pennsylvania State, 18; The State v. Fleming, 7 Humphrey.. 1T.;
Lewis v. Webb, 3 Greenleaf, 326.

t Dwarris on Statutes, 538.

4

13 Howard, 429.

5 Wallace, 541

A.ec. 1868.]'

MOORE V. MARSH.'
Statement of the case.

It is quite clear, thprefore, that this court cannot proceed
to pronounce judgment in this case, for it has no longer
jurisdiction of the appeal; and judicial duty is not less
fitly performed by declining ungranted jurisdiction than in
exercising firmly that which the Constitution and the laws
confer.
Counsel seem to have supposed, if efFect be given to the
repealing act in question, that the whole appellate power of
the court, in cases of habeas corpus, is denied. But this is
an error. The act of 1868 does not except from that jurisdiction any cases but appeals from Circuit Courts under the
act of 1867. It does not affect the jurisdiction which was
previously exercised.*
The appeal of the petitioner in this case must be
DisMIssED FOR WANT OF JURISDICTION.

MOORE V. MARSH.
Under the fourteenth section of the Patent Act of 1836, enacting that damages may be recovered by action on the ease, to be brought in the name
of the person "interested," the original owner of the patent, who has
afterwards sold his right, may recover for an infringement committed
during the time that he was owner. The word "interested," means
interested in the patent at the time when the infringement was committed.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Western District of
Pennsylvania.
The eleyenth section of the Patent Act of 1836, relating
to the.assignment of patents, thus enacts:
"Every patent shall be assignable in law either as to the
whole interest, or any undivided part thereof, by any instru- ment in writing, which assignment, and also every grant and
conveyance -of the exclusive, right under any patent to make
* RE parte MXCardle, 6 Wallace, 324.

