Dec. 1868.]

TWiTCELL i.

rH4 COMMONWEALTH t

321

Statement of the case.

TWIrCHELL

v.

THr COMMONWEALTH.

1. Writs of error to State courts ae not allowed as of right. The practice
is to submit the record of the State courts to a judge of this court, whose
duty it is to ascertain upon examination whether any question, cognizable here upon appeal, was made and decided in the proper court of the
State, and whether the case upon the face of the record will justify the
allowance of the writ.
2. The present ease being one, however, where t1~e petition was made by a
prisoner under sentence of death, within a very few days, the motion
for allowance was. permitted, in view of that circumstance, to be argued,
at the earliest motion-day, before the full bench.
3. Thq court conceding that neither the 25th section of the Judiciary Act
of 1789, nor the act of February 5th, 1867, makes any distinction between civil and criminal cases, in respect to, the revisibn of the judgments of State courts by this court, decided that4. The 5th and 6th Amendments to the Constitution of the United States
(relating to criminal prosecutions), were not.designed as limits upon the,
State governments in refcrerice to their own citizens, but exclusiv'elyls
restrictions upon Federal power;. Baron v. The City of Baltimore (7 Beters, 2411), Fox v. Ohio (5 Howard, 484), and other cases to the' same
point with them, bbing hereihn concurred in.

THIs was a petition, by one Twitchell, for a writ of error
to ihe Court of Oyer and Terminev of the City and County o,
Philadelphia, and the 9up.eme Court of Pennsylvania' with'
a view to the revision here of a judgment of the former colirt,
affirmed by the latter court, which condemnned-the petitioner
to suffer death for the crime of murder.
The case was this:
The Constitution. of the United States, by its 5th Amendment, ordains, that no person shall be held to answer for a'
capital crime,,nor be deprived of life "without due process
of law ;" and, by its 6th, that in all criminal prosecutions
the accused shall enjoy the right "to be informed of th4
,natureand cause of the accusation."
With these provisions of the Constitution in force, the
legislature.of Pennsylvania, by a statute of the 80th Marcl ,
1860, to cons6lidate, amend, and revise its laws relative to
penal proceedings. and pleadings, enacted thus:
"In

any indictmei t for murder or manslaughter, itt shall not
21

VOL. vII.

322

Twi ECHELL v. THE

COMMONWEALTH.

[SUp. Ct.'

Statement of the'case.

be necessary to set forth the mainer in which, or the mea-ns by
which the death of the deceased was caused; but it shall be sufficient in every indictment for murder, to charge that the defendant did feloniously, wilfully, and of malice aforethought, kill
and murder the deceased."
Under this statute Twitchell was indicted in the Court of
Oyer and Terminer at Philadelphia, in December, 1868, for
murder, the indictment presenting, that on a day named,
he and his wife, with force, and arms, &c,, "feloniously,
wilfully, and of their malice aforethought, did make an
assault," and one Mary Hill, "feloniously, wilfully, and of
their malice aforethought, did kill and murder," contrary to
the form of the act, &c. On this itdictment Twitchell was
convicted, and the Supreme Court" of the State having affirmed the judgment, he was sentenced to be hanged oil the
8th April, 1869.
Eight days previously to the day thus fixed, Mr. W. W.
lubell, counsel of the prisoner, asked, and obtained leave,
in this court, to file a motion for a writ of error, as above
said, in the case; with notice to the Attorney-General of
Pennsylvania, that the motion would be heard on Friday,
April, the 2d, the earliest motion-day of the court. The
petition was heard, before the court in bane, on the 2d, accordingly. It set forth that, pending the suit, Twitchell
had set up and claimed certain rights and privileges under
the said 5th and 6th Amendments to the Constitution of the
United States, and that the final decision was against the
rights arid privileges so set up and claimed. He therefoire
prayed, in order that the said Twitchell should enjoy his
just privileges under the Constitution,. and that what of justice and right ought to be done, should be done, that a writ
of error should issue from this court to the Court of Oyer
ond Terminer of the City and County of Philadelphia, and
the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, with a view to the reexamination here of the judgment of the former court,
affirmed by the latter.
The application was made under the 25th section of the

Dec. 1868.]

TwIiTOELL V.

THEu

COMONWEALTH.

323

Argument in support of the motion.

Judiciazy Act of 1789; the section* which gives such writ,
where is drawn in question the validity of a statute of, or
authority exercised under any State, on the ground of their
being repugnant to the Constitution or laws of the United
States, and the decision is in favor of such validity; or.
where is drawn in question the construction of any clause
of the Constitution or statute of the United States, and the
decision is against the title, right, privilege, or exemption
specially set up, &c.; a provision, this last, re-enacted by act,
of February 5th, 1867,t with additional words, as "where
any title, right, privilege, or immunity is claimed under the
Constitution, or any statute of, or authority exercised under
the United States,'and the decision isagainst the title, right,
privilege, or immunity specially set up," &c.
ar. Hubbell, in support of the motion, contended, that the
act of the Pennsylvania Assembly was repugnant to the
5th and 6th Amendments of the Constitution-tO the last
especially-that under these the -prisoner had a rightto be
informed, before the trial, by the indictment, and so of,
Tecord, that the murder was alleged to'have been brought
about by some particular instrument, or some instrument
generally, or some meaus, method, or cause stated; to bd
informed, in other words, of the specific nature pf the accusation, so as that he might be enabled to prepare for a defence; whereas, here the indictment stated but the general
nature of the accusation, namely, that the prisoner had niurdered Mrs. Hill; .that the provisions of the Pennsylvania
statute had been copied from a late British statute, and had
departed from the principles of the common law-principles
not more considerate and humane than just;--which, nevertheless, under the Constitution of the United States, remained, and remaining, were secured to all men; that the
court below erred in not deciding in accordance with the
view here presented, and that the warrant of the Governo
for the execution was, therefore, not a "due process" of
*

Stat. at Large, 85.

j- 14 Id. 885.

324

TWITCHELL V. THE COMMONWEALTH.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

law. In such a case the petitioner had a clear kght to the
interposition of this court, which he now respectfully asked.
''Mr. Hubbell read, in detail, cases* to show that the appellate power of this court extends. to criminal cases, where the
State is a party.
Mr. B. 1T Brewster, Attorney- General of Pennsylvania, did
not appear.
The CHIlF JUSTICE, on the Monday following, delivered the opinion of the court.
I The application for the writ of error is made under the
25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, which makes provision for the exercise of the appellate jurisdiction of this
court over judgments and decrees of the courts of the States.
I7either the act of 1789, fior the act
of 1867, which in
some particulars supersedes and replaces the act of 1789,
makes any distinction between civil and criminal cases in
respect to the revision of the judgments of State courts by
this court; nor are we aware that it has ever been contended
that any such distinction exists. Certainly none has been
recognized here. -lNo objection, therefore, to the allowance
of the writ of error asked for by the petition can arise from
the circumstance that the judgment, which we are asked to
review, was rendered in a criminal case.
But writs of error'to State courts have never been allowed,
as of right. It has always been the practice to submit the
record of the State courts to a jddge of this court, whose
duty has been to ascertain upon examination whether any
question, cognizable here upon appeal, was made and decided
in the proper court of the State, and whether the case upon
the face of the record will justify the allowance of the writ.
In general, the allowance will be made where the decision
appears to have involved a question within our appellate
jurisdiction; but refusal to allow the writ is the proper
course when no such question appears to have been-made oi
Cohens v. Virgini., 6 Wheaton, 264;. Worcestbr v. Georgia, 6 Peters,

Dec. 1868.]

TWITOHELL

v. THE

COMMONWEALTH.

325

Opinion of the court.

'decided; and also where, although a claim of right under
the Constitution or laws of the United States maj -have been
made, it is nevertheless clear that the application for the writ
'is made under manifest misapprehension as to the jurisdiction of this court.
In the case before us we have permitted the motion for
allowance to be argued before the full bench because of the
urgency of the case, and the momentous importance of the
result to the petitioner.
It is claimed that the writ should be allowed upon the
gr6und that the indictment, upon which the judgment of
the State court was rendered; was framed under a statute of
Pennsylvania in disregard of the 5th and 6th Amendmehts
of th , Constitution of the United States, and that this statute
is e ipecially repugnant to that provision of the 6th Amendment which declares, "that in all criminal prosecutions the
accused shall enjoy the right" "to be informed of the nature
and cause of the accusation agAinst him."
The statute complained of was passed March 30, 1860,
and provides that "in any, indictment for murder or manslaughter it shall not be necessary to set forth the manner
in which, or the means by which the death of the deceased
was caused; but it shall be sufficient, in every indictment for
murder, to .charge that the defendant did feloniously, wilfully, and of malice aforethought, kill and murder the de,eased; and it shall be sufficient, in. any indictment for manslaughter, to charge that the defendant did feloniously kill
the deceased."
We are by no means prepared to say, that if it were an
open question whdther.the 5th and 6th Amendments of the'
Constitution apply to the State governments, it would not
be our duty to allow the writ applied for and hear argument
on the question of repugnancy. We think, indeed, that it;
would. But the scope.auid application of these amendments
are no longer subjeeto bfdiscussion here.
In the case of Barron v. The, 6ty of Balmore2* the whole
* 7 Peters, 243.

TwiwHELL v. THE CbMMONWEALTH.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of theicourt.

question was fully considered upon a writ of error to the
Court of Appeals of the State of Maryland. The error alleged was, that the State court sustained the action of the
defendant under an act of the State legislature, whereby the
property of the plaintiff was taken for public use in violation of the 5th Amendment. The court held that its appellate jurisdiction did not extend to the case presented by the
writ of error; and Chief Justice Marshall, declaring the
unanimous judgment of the court, said:
"The question presented is, we think, of gredt importance,
. . The Constitution was.ordained
and established by the people of the United States for themselves, for their own government, and not for the government
of the individual States. Each State established a constitution
for itself, and in that constitution provided such limitations and
restrictions on the powers of its particular government as'its
judgment dictated. The people of the United States framed
such a government for the United States as they supposed beat
adapted to their situation and best calculated to promote their
interests. The powers thty confbrred on this government were
to be exercised by itself; and the limitations on power, if expressed in general terms, are naturally, and, we think, neces.
sarily applicable to the government created by the instrument.
They are limitations of power granted in the instrument itself,
not of distinct governments frai A by diffeient persons and for
different purposes."
but not of much difficulty. .

And, in conclusion, after a thorough examination of the
several amendments which had then (1833) been adopted,
he observes:
"These amendments contain no expression indicating an intention to apply them to State governments. This court can.
not so apply them."
And this judgment has since been frequently reiterated,
and always without dissent.
That they "were not designed as limits upon the State
governments in reference to their own citizens," but "ex-

Dec. 1868.]

TYleR vi BOSTON,
Statement of the case.',

elusively as restrictions upon Federal power," was declared
in Fox v. Ohio, to be "the only rational and intelligible interpretation which these amendments can have."* And
language equally decisive if less emphatic, may be found in
Smith v. The State of Marylandt and Withers v. .Buckley and
others.
-.
In the views thus stated and supported we entirely concur.
They apply to the sixth as fully as to any bther of the amendments. It is certain that we can acquire no jurisdiction of
the case of the petitioner by writ of error, and we are obfliged,
therefore to
REFUSE THE -WRIT.

TYLER V. BOSTON.
1. When a patent is claimed'for a discovery of a new substance by means of
chemical combinations of known materials, it should state the component parts of the new manufacture claimed, With clearness and precision.
and not leave the person attempting to use the discovery to find it out
by "experiment."
2. The doctrine of equivalents as applied to chemical inventions explained,
and the distinction between mechanical inventions and chemical discoveries, where experiment is required to ascertain the effect of chemical
substances, pointed'out.
3. Whether one compound of given proportions is substantially the same as
another compound varying the proportions, is a question for the jury.

TYLER brought uit, in the Circuit Court for Massachusetts,
against the city of Boston, for infringement of a patent; the
case being this:
The plaintiff jrofessed to have discovered a new compound
substance, being a combination of fusel oil with the mineral
and earthy oils, which compound constitutes a burning fluid,
"by which term," he says, "I mean a liquid which will burn
ibr the purpose of illumination, without material smoke, in
a lamp with a small solid wick, and without a chiLmney."
The claim of his patent which the defendant was charged
"* 5 Howard, 434.

t 18 Id. 76.

1:20 Id. 90.

