.Dec. 1868.1

ROLAND V.. UNITED

STATES.

Statement of the case.

from the'Secretaryof the Treasury before the service of process
upon him in this suit, in respect to which payment and the effect
thereof the counsel for the saia Birch ana Murray, and. for the
said Hardenberg respectively, desired to be heard, it was ordered
that time for such hearing should be given to the'said. parties.
Both the complainant and the defendants had 1lberty to apply
for further directions in respect to the execution of the decree.

ROLAND V. UNITED STATES.
A grant of land in California, purporting to have been made by Governor
Pio Pico, on tbe,2d of May, 1846, and insufficient on the archive papers,
decided not to be helped by papers produced by the claimant; these
-being found by the court, upon the evidence in the case, not genuine,
but an afterthought, and produced in court only because thle growth
of California had stimulated the cupidity of speculators to experiment
with fragments of title-papers left unfinished by Pico, and which were
gathered up by.our officers on the conquest of the country.

APPEAL from the District Court for the NortheruwDistrict
of California, respecting a land claim, under the act of March
3d, 1851. The grant purported to have been made on the
2d of May, 1846, by Pio Pico; Moreno being secretary ad
inteiri,; this court having decided that, after the 7th July,
1846, Pico had no powers as governor. The claim was.for
"eleven.leagues of land in California, at the junction of the
San Joaquin and Stanislaus rivers." The expediente was"
obtained from the archives, and 'vas among the papers of
which Hiartwell made an index. . It consisted of a petitioln
margiual order that the title issue, decree of concession, and
the borrador, or draft, of the title, ti be given to the party
iiterested. It differed from other expedientes in this: that
th'ere was no report, no diseflo, no approval by the Departrneihtal Assembly, and because the whole proceedings were
begun and consummated on the same day. This document
not being enough to establish the title, the claimant, in
order to make it complete, produc6d from his own, cudtody

744

ROLAND V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot

Statement of the case.

the titulo which annexed conditions to the grant; a petition
asking for further time to comply with these conditions;'the
order of the governor granting the request, and a certificate
that the Departmental Assembly approved the grant.
In the borrador, the land was described "as eleven leagues,
situated on the banks of the rivers Stanislaus and San Joaquin," corresponding with the description given in the
petition. The titulo, issued on the same day as the burrador, directed "that the measurement of'the eleven leagueshall be on the banks of the Stanislaus, of the width of ond
league, commencing where the two rivers run."
The signature, "Pio Pico," to the grant in this case.had
a different aspect, in certain particulars, from other signatures to public documents of the same governor; especially
in the letter P.
Pico and Moreno'were examined as witnesses. Pico testi
fied that he believed that the signature to the grant, purporting to be his, was his; and be thought that the one
purporting to be Moreno's was Moreno's. As to the one
purporting to be his own, and the difference between it and
some singatures admitted, he said that he "was accustomed
to sign his name sometimes in one way and sometimes in
another." He could not tell whether he had signed any
document at a date different from that which the document
bore, but he belieQed that he had not; he had no recollectioii when he signed this document; he believed that he had
made no grants after 1846, but did not remember when, in
1846, ie ceased making them. , He might have made, elsewhere than in Los Angeles, grants dated as if there made;
but he was -positive that he signed none of the papers in this
case in 1847 or 1848. He had no recollection of anything
conhected with this particular grant; and "none whatever"
of.Roland's application. He knew Roland, however, and had
known him since 1840; thought that he was naturalized; lie
remembered, at all events, that he had married a Mlexican
woman;' there was no particular reason, he testified, for
granting so much as eleven leagues to Roland, "except that
he was an' honest rian, had a family and considerable prop.

Dec. 1.868.]

De.ROL
86.]
AND, V. UNITED SYATES.
Statqment of the case..

erty." The law, qs he considered, imposed no limits;, but
eleven leagues was hi 9 limit in fact.
Moreno testified that he believed the signature of Pico to
be genuifie. He remembered that Roland "petitioned for
lands" during the short time that he, Modreno, wAs secretary,
and that they were granted to him; but he did not recollect
the time when, ar the circumstances under which the grant
now set up was made; but he'stated that, in 1g46, the country was generally in a state of agitation, ana thar great
confusion prevailed in all the public offices. The record
contained a certificate from Pio Pico, that the Departmental'
Assembly met on the 4th day of May, 1846, and approved
this grant. It appeared, however, from the journals of the
Departmental Assembly, that the earliest meeting in May,
was on the 8th of May, whezz minutes of the 291h of Apri? were
read and approved. Pico, in his testimony given, accofnted,
or ateempted to account for this by saying that at that time
-" there was great informality in all public afihirs, and that
it might have been that the notes of the meeting of the 4th
were lost or mislaid; that they might have been left on the
table, and only the draft of the 29thApril beeh delivered to
the secietary, to be copied into the book." He had no recollection that the grant was approved by-the Departmental
A~sembly, or of his giving a certificate that it 'had been;
,nor any reason whatever for believing that it had been,
except -his seeing what he was positively sure was his owii
certificate that it was.
:" Some slight omissions and discrepancies were also pointed
out in the journal.
'It was admitted by an agreement of recbrd, as a fact, that
on tbe'22d day of July, 1845, Governor Picogranted to Ro-.
land and one Julius Horkman, four leagues of land, and*
that the claim had been prosecuted and confirmed. 'And
that on the 6th day of May, 1846, he grauted to Roland and
one Louis Avenas, the sobrantes of certain ranchos, to the
extent of nine leagues. This grant had'been presented for
confirmatibr, and was now pending in the District Court of
Cahfornia.

ROLAND V.

JNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The District Court rejected the claim, and the claimant
now appealed here; the question at issue being whether the
title here set up was a genuine title to land in California
acquired under Mexican rule, which this government was
under obligations to protect?
Messrs. Carlisle and Blfck, for the appellant, citing Unied
States v. Johnson.*
Mr. E'arts, Attorney- General, and Mr. Wills, contra, who
relied largely on White v. United Slates,t and Pico v. Same.1
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The haste and recklessness, to use no harsher term, with
which this grant was made, cannot but suggest grave doubts
of the boj]ides of the transaction. It nowhere appears that
Roland had any claim on the bounty of the Mexican nation,
or ability, or intention to occupy so large a traQt of country;
and yet Pico, near the time when power passed from his
hands, in the nmidst of civil commotion, disregarding the
customary and established modes of making concession of
the public domain to meritorious persons; without an informe; without a map; without any inquiry whatever; grfints
to hiln eleven leagues of land (the maximum quantity grantable to a single person) in a remote wilderness, occupied by
hostile Indians, and of which so little was known that the
best description that could be given of it was, that it was
situated on the banks of the San Joaquin and Stanislaus
rivers.
I That the plain requirements of the Mexican colonization
laws were violated in. these proceedings, is very apparent
from the frequent decisions of this court in this class of cases;
but it is unne cessary to examine the effect of this departure
on this title, if it were genuine, because in our opinion it has
no validity. And it is not the first time, in the history of
California land cases in this court, that grants made at or
* 1 Wallace, 326.

t

b. 660.

* 2 Id. 279.

Dec. 1868.]

ROLAIND'V. UNITED STATES.

747

Opinion of the court.

nearthe time of te,one in controversy purports to be male
by Goveirnor Pico, add 6ountersigned by his secretary, Mo.
rero, have been held not to be genuine.*,
The struggle ii this case, as in others of like character, is
to make up by parol proof for a deficiency of record evidence.
Pico and Moreno have been examined in support of the title,
but their testimony is singularly unsatisfactory. Pico has
no recollection of making the grant, nor, indeed, of Roland's'
application, but is able to identify his.signatures. Although
he knew Roland-that he had married a Mexican woman,
the number of his children, and the state of his propertyyet he cannot recollect that he donated to him an immense
tract in a remote part df the country, and broke through all
the forms of law in order to do it quickly.
A transaction of this magnitude, where the favored party
was known, is not apt to be forgotten, and to say the least
on the subject, this -want of memory on Tic6's part, is in
itself a circumstance of great suspicion that the grant was
never made. Moreno's mnemory, if somewhat better than
Pico's, is not enough so to clear away the difficulties from
this "title.
It is a little singular, if Pico's signatures to the papers
plroduced by the claimant are authentic, that they slhofld
dithr sd materially from his signatures to public documents'
of that date. In Lito v. The United Slat&,t the same differences existed, and the court adapted the conclusion that
they were not genuine. If these inequalities in Pico's signatures create distrust as to their genuineness, the different
phraseology.in describing the land in the borrador, friom that
uiad in the titulo, increases. the distrust in the authenticity
of this title.
In the borrador the land is deecribed "as eleven leagues,
situated oi the banks of the Avers Stanislaus and San Joaquii," correspondingwith the description given inthe petiKnigbt's Case, 1 Black, 227; Galbraith's. Case, 2 Id 394; Luco's Case,
23 Howard, 543.
. t 23 Howard, 543.

748

:ROLAND V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

tion, while thetitulo, issued on the same day as the borrador,
directs "that the measurement of the eleven leagues shall be
on the banks of the Stanislaus, of the width of one league,
commencing where the two rivers run." On the theory that
the borrador and titulo were actually signed on the same day,
how did it come to pass that the designation of the tract is
so'much more particular in the one than in the other? It
will be borne in mind that Pico and Moreno have no definite
recollection concerning this grant, and yet in this most important point the title-paper issued to the claimant differs
essentially from the one which forms part of the expediente.
Why think of the necessity of this change of description, when
both documents were made on the same day, and form part
of the same transaction? The change of description cannot
be explained on the hypothesis that both papers were prepared and executed on the same day; but it is easily under.
stood, if the titulo was prepared at a subsequent date, whes
the parties interested could see that a more definite description was wanting, than that which the borrador furnished.
But there are much graver difficulties affecting this title
than those which we have noticed.
The claimant, in attempting to prove too much, has established the falsity of his title. This court has frequently decided, that the approval by the Departmental Assembly was
not necessary to the validity of a grant; but has also observed
that, under certain circumstances, the absence of such approvalis entitled to great weight. It was, doubtless, with a
view to meet all objections, and to show the fuliess of his
title, that the claimant furnished evidence that the Assembly
did approve the grant. If this evidence is true, it strengthels the claimant's title, but if false, it destroys all confidence
in it. It is important therefore to ascertain whether the Assembly met on the 4th day of May, 1846. Pico certifies that
it did meet on that day, and approved this grant; but it is
clear that very little reliance can be placed on this certificate,
if genuine, because, when interrogated on the subject, Pico
tegtifies that he has no recollection of the approval, nor, indeed, of giving -a certificate to that effect, and but for the

Dec. 1868.]

ROLAND V, UTNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

fact that he sees his Signature to the certificate of approval,
he has no reason to believe that the grant was approved. it
is true he testifies that there was great looseness in the administration of public affairs at the time; but from this no
inference can be properly drawn that the Departmental Assembly convened on the 4th day of May, 1846. It will not do
to say that there might have bedn a meeting of that body on
that day. In the absence of direct proof of the fact, there
must be evidence affoirding reasonable grounds to believe
that the meeting actuaily took place, and that the records of
it are lost. But we are not left, in this case, to rely on conjectures or probabilities, for, fortunately, the journals of the
Departmental Assembly have been preserved, and they show
that the body was not in session at the date wheih the testimoni'o states the grant to have. been approved. It appears
by the journals that the earliest meeting in May was the
8th day of the month, when the minutes of the meeting held
on the 29th day of the preceding month of April, as was customary, were read and approved.
It is not credible that the Assembly could have met between these dates, and overlooked the fact in recording the
proceedings of the 8th of May.
To escape the force of this evidence, the claimant has
pointed out some discrepancies and omissions in the journals, but they are not of a character requiring notice, and do
not tend to prove that the Assembly convened on the day
when the testimonio purports to have been signed.
If Pico does not remember the sale of this large tract of
country, not the fact of approval by the Assembly, of what
value is his testimony that the approval must have been
obtained, because the document certifying to it bears his
signature?
But if what has been said is not enough to show that the.
alleged grant was not issued to Roland, there is still further
evidence in the record, which is conclusive on the point.
In deciding this case we are to be governed by the laws
and usages of the Mexican :government, in granting lands,
d'efore the conquest of California, and Acbording to the prin-

ROLAND V. UNITED STATES.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ciples of equity. Tdsted by these rules, this claim has neither
a legal or equitable status.
Lands were to be granted by'the colonization laws of
Mexico, for the purpose of cultivating and inhabiing them,
and n6 more than eleven leagues could be granted to a single
individual. It is stipulated in the record that, on the 2"d
day of July, 1845, Governor Pico granted to Johl Roland,
and Julius Horkman, four leagues of land, and that the
claim has been prosecuted and confirmed. And that on
the 6th day of May, 1846, only four days atter the date of
the grant in controversy, a still further grant was made to
John Roland and Louis Arenas, of the sobrantes of certain
ranchos, to.the extent of nine lcagus. This latter grant is
also claimed to be genuine, and has been presented for confirmation, and is now p~n~ling in the District Court of California. All these grants cannot be sustained, because Pico
had no power to make them. If they could be sustained
Roland would receive from the Mexican government (if the
surplus lands of the ranchos reached nine leagues) a quantity
of land exceeding seventeen leagues. The United States are
under no obligations to recognize grants wbich aggregate,
in the hands of one person, such a quantity of land, even if
they were actually made; but the strong probability is, that
the eleven-league grant was abandoned when the petition
was presented, and the grant obtained for other lauds in a
diflerent part of the country. In no other way can we acquit
Pico of a wilful departure from the law under which he
acted, and account for the petition and grant of the 6th of
May.
It is fair to infer from this record that Roland was an intelligent man, and knew the limit of tie governoi:'s power
to grant lands, and the corrective applied by the Departmental Assenibly when he exceeded his authority. If so, lie
knew Pico had no right to make the el'even-league grant,
because he had already conceded to him the undivided half
of Four leaguqs, in July, 1845. It may be, before the proecedingswere completed for the eleven-league grant, he saw
hig difficulty, and concluded to rely on the first gi-ant made

Dec. 1868.]

ROLAND V.

UNITED STATES.

751,

Opinion of the court.

to him, and to ask for a concession of other lands nearer the
settled part of the State, and whidh land's, although less in
quantity, were more desirable. Adopting this theory, the
conduct of Roland in asking for other lands on thd 6th of
May,'can be explained. On any other theory his petition.
on that day for an additional grant, and Pico's action conceding it, were palpable frauds committed against the letter
and spirit of the coIonizationlawg of Mexico.
Without pursuing the subject further, in ouv opinion this
claint should not be confirmeL
The archive papers. fail to make out the title, and the
papers produced by the claimant are not genuine) but the
result of an afterth6ught, and would never have been, produced in court if the unparalleled growth of California had
not stimulated the cupidity of speculators to experiment
with fragments of title-papers left unfinished by Pico, and
which were gathered up by our officers on the conquest of
the country.
DEoP.EE AFIRMED

MILLER and FIELD, J., dissenting.

