Dec. 1868.]

SUPERVISORS- V.

"RoGERS.

Statement of the case.

judicial one, but one, of merey, to mitigate the severityof
the law. It admitted of no.appeal to the Court of Claims,
or to any other court. It was the exercise of his discretion
in a matter intrusted to him alone, and from which there
could be no appeal. Even if we were called upbn t6 review
the acts of the secretary, we see no reason to doubt their
correctness, or that of the judgment of the Court of Clailms
_n dismissing the case.
DEQRE AFFIRMED.

The CHIEF JUSTICE and.Mr. Justice
sented.

TELSON dis-

SuPEvIsoRs v. ROGERS.
1. The act of February 28th, 1839 ( 8, 5 Stat. at Large, 822), providing for
the transfer, under certain circumstances named in it, of a suit from one
* Circuit Court to the most convenientCircuit Court in the next adjacent
State, is not repealed by the act of larch ,3d, 1863 (12 Stat. at Large,,
768), providing that under certain circumstances named in it,
the circuit judge of one circuit may request the judge of any other circuit to
hold the court of the former judge during a specified time.
2. A court of the "nited. States has power to adopt in a particular case a
rule of practice under a State statute ; and where a Circuit Court is
possessed of a case from another circuit, under the above-mentioned act
of 1889, it may.adopt the practice of the State in which the Circuit
Court from whict the case is transferred sits, as fully as could the Civcuit Court which had possession of the case originally.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for Northern Illinois. The
case, which involved -two points, being this':
1. An act of Congress of the 28th of February, 1839,* provides, that in all 'suits in any Circuit Court of the. Uhited
States, in which it shall appear that both the judges, or the
one who is solely competent to try the same, shall be in a g
way interested, or shall have been counsel, or connected with
eithei' party so as to render it improper to try.the cause, it
shall be the duty of such-judge; or judges, on the applica.
* J 8, 5 Stat. at Large, 822.

SUPERVISORS V. ROGERS.

['Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

tion of either party, to cause the fact to be entered on the
records of the court and make an order, that an authenticated
copy thereof, with all the proceedings in the suit, shall be
forthwith certified to the most convenient Circuit Court in the next
adjacent State, or in the next adjacent circuit, which Circuit
Court shall, upon such record and order being filed with the
clerk, fake cognizance thereof in the same manner as if such
suit had been rightfully and originally commenced therein,
and shall proceed to hear and deternine the same; and the
proper process fbr the due execution of the judgment or- decree rqndered therein, Bshall run into and be executed in the
district where such judgment or decree was rendered; and,
also, into the district from which such suit was removed.
A_ subsequent act, one of March 3d, 1863,* provides, that
whenever the judge of the Supreme Court for any circuit,
from disability, absence, the accumulation of business iu the
Circuit Court in any'district within his circuit, or from his
having been counsel, or being interested in any cause pending,
or from any other cause, shall'deem it advisable that the Circuit Court should be holden by the judge of any other circuit, he
may request, in writing, the judge of any other circuit to hold
the court in such district during a'time named in such request.
With these two acts on the statite-book one Rogers had
brought suit, in the Circuit Court for Iowa, against the supervisors of Lee County, to redover the interest due by the
county on certain bonds which it had issued, and for the payment of which interest, a tax was by the statutes of the State
to be levied.
Having obtiined a judgment against the county, and issued execution without getting any satisfaction, he applied
to the same court for an alternative writ of mandamus upon
the board of dounty supervisors (whose duty it was, by the
laws of Iowa, to levy all taxes levied), to levy a tax sufficient, to pay his judgment, or to show cause for not doing
so. The writ having issued, the supervisors made a return
showing cause, or what they set up as such. The case sub12 Stat. at Large, 768.

Dec.-1868.]

SUPERVISORS V.

ROGERS.

Statement of the case.

sequently coming on for further proceeding, and both the
judgeq qf the Circuif Court for Iowa being interested, in the
matter as tax-payers of the county of Lee, the case was
ordered to be transferred to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of Illinois.
Being now in that court, a' motion was made to remand
it, on the ground that the act first above quoted, the act,

namely, of 11839, had been repealed by the subsequent one
of 1863, and that, under ,this last act, if the two judges of
tho Circuit Court for Iowa we're interested in the case, a cir
cuit judge of some other district 9hould have been fequested
to hold a court in the Iowa circuit, the case being left there.
Instead of this the case had been transferred and the judge,
had been left in his district. The motion,was, however, -denied.
2. The case being thus in the Circuit Court for Northern
Illinois, and a pereriiptory writ having issued thence, and.
the supervisors having refused to obey it, the relator's counsel moved that a writ should be issued "according to section
3770 of .the code of Iowa," directed to the marshal "of the.
United States for the district of Iowa, and commanding, him
to levy and collect the taxes named in the peremptory writ.
This section, 3770 of the code of Io:wa, upon which the,
motion for the appointment of the marshal was based, is
found in a chapter of the Iowa code, 'regulating proceedings
in mandamus. It thus enacts:
"The court may, upon applicationof the plaintiff .(beside's or
instead of proceeding against the defendant by attachment) di"rectthat the act izequired to be done may be done by the plaintiff, or some other person appointed by the court, at the expense of
the-defendant; and, upon the act being done, the amount of such
expense may'be ascertained by the court, or by a referee appointed by the court, as the court or judge may order; and the"
court may render judgment for the amount of such expense and
costs, and enforce payment thereof by execution."
The court below accordingly issued the writ to the, marshal' "c o mmanding him to levy and collect the taxes named
in the said peremptory writ, and when collected to pay said
V'5L VIL"

12

SUPERVISORS V. ROGERS.

[Sup. Ct. ,

Argument in favor of the consistency.

judgment, interest, and costs therein named," and in performing the-said duty, requiring him to conform to the laws
of the State of Iowa, for the collection of State and county
taxes, as near as' might be.
The case being here on error, it was alleged that the court
belov. erred,
1. In overruling the motion to remand the cause to the
Circuit Court of the United. States for th6 District of Iowa;
,and,
2. In making an order for the appointment of the marshal of the United States; as a commissioner, to levy and
.ollect .thetax upon the property of Lee County.
1Th. lca rary,,for the plaintiff in error, contended, that the

act of 1863 was intended to supersede that of 1839. Great
convenience and advantdge arose to suitors, witnesses, attorneys, and others, by providing for calling a neighboring
judge to try such cases. It was vastly more easy for a judge
'to come into an adjoining circuit than for counsel and witnesses to go by hundreds from State to State.
Several reasons. might be assigned in support of the second
allegation of error; but a conclusive one, he argued, was,
that so far as anything appeared here, the chapter of the
Iowa code on which the court acted in appointing the marshal, had never been adopted by the Federal court below
,as one of its rules of practice. It thus had no force in that
court.* The /decision in Riggs v. Johnson Countyt last winter, on the subject of mandamus in this class of cases, was
based expressly upon the ground that the rules and practice
of the court authorized the issuing of writs of mandamus to
enforce the levy of taxes in these cases, and it was upon a
full review of the acts of Congress concerning the practice
of the courts, that this conclusion was reached.
Messrs. Grant and Dick, contra,
1. Went into a minute examination of the act of 1839, and
that of 1863, contending that the provisions were able to
*Smith v. Coekrill, 6 Wallace, 756.

t Ib 166.

Dec. 1868]

SUPeRViSORS V., IOGERS.

179

Opinion of the court.

stand together, and Were thufs but cunftilative! They gave
two modes of proceeding where the judges were interested,
&c. Either could b e adopted, as was most convenient in.
the circumstances. The learned counsel contended2. That the chapter of the Iowa code in question, if never
otherwise adopted, had been sfifficiently adopted for this
case, by being completely acted upon in it.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
I. It witl'be observed on a comparison of the act of 1889
ivith the subsequent 6ne of 1863 that they are very different
from each other in their general purpose, scope, and intent.,
The first provides only for the removal and trial of a suit in
which the judges are disqualified to try the particular cause
on account of interest, or having, been counsel or connected
with either party. The second act is more general, and in'
the events named the judge is to be invited to hold the court
for a given session or term, to be named. It is true that
the reasons assigned in th6 section foi calling on the judge
embrace two of those assigned in the act of 1839 for the
removal to'an adjacent court, namely: interest, and having
been counsel; but this enumeration is not of much importance in the interpretation of the act, for after'the enumeration it is added, or "from any other cause;" so that the judge
would be authorized for a cause not enumerated to call in
the judge to hold a session for any time specified, and during
which he wquld no doubt be fully competent to try any cause
coming even within the enumeration. The frame of the section, we think, shows that the main purpose of the provision.
was to procure a judge.to hold a session or tei'm of the court,
and not to try a partifcular cause which the resident judge'
was incompetent to try. But the more'.decisive difference
between the two a'cts is that the power conferred by the latter is permissive and discretionary, whereas the former is
express and mandatory. The action of the judge in the latter act depends upon the.question whether or not he deems
it advisable that the circuitjudge of another circuit shall be called
in; in' the former it is made the duty of thejudge, -an the appli-

SUPERVISORS

.

ROGERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

cation of either party, to cause the fact to be entered in the records
of the court, and to make the order of removal. In the latter act
it is also discretionary with the judge requested to h6ld this
circuit. The condition of his own circuit may render it inexpedient, or his refusal unavoidable; in the former it is the
duty of the circuit to which the cause is removed to take
cognizance of the same and try it as if originally brought in
that court. We are of opinion therefore that there is no
necessary repugnancy between the two acts, and although
in some particulars the two provisions have reference to the
same subject, and for the purpose of remedying a common
inconvenience, there are no negative words in the latter act,
and to this extent the remedy may be well regarded as
simply cumulative.
II. The next question is as to the appointment of the marshal as a -commissioner to levy the tax in satisfaction of the
judgment.
This depends upon a provision of the code of the State of
Iowa. The provision is found in a chapter regulating proceedings in the writ of mandamus; and the power is given
to the court to appoint a person to discharge the duty enjoined by the peremptory writ which the defendant had refused to perform, and for which refusal he was liable to an
attachment, fine, and imprisonment. It is given by way of
an alternative pr6ceeding in execution of the peremptory
writ in lieu of the attachment, and is express and unqualified.
The duty of levying the tax upon the taxable property of
the county to pay the principal and interest of these bonds
was specially enjoined upon the board of supervisors by
the act of the legislature that authorized their issue, and
the appointment of the marshal as a commissioner in pursuance of the above section is to provide for the performaihce of this duty where the board has disobeyed or evaded
the law of the State, and the peremptory mandate of the
court.
This section is but a modification of the law of England
and of the New England States, which provide for the execution of a judgment recovered against a county, city, or town,

Dec.,1868.3

Dec.
LEE
188.1
'O'UNTi V. ,ROE
Statement of thease,

against the private -property. of any individual, inhabitant,
giving him the right to clAim contribution from the rest ,f
the people.
It is said that this practice preseribed for the State courts
of Iowa has not beenadopted by the United States circuit
for that district, anlhence that it is not competent f6r the
court in the present instance to follow thi mode of proceeding. But the ans'wer is that the court having charge of the.
cause 'under the act of 1839, is fully.competent -to adoptit
in the particular case, as its power is the same oy~r it as if.
it had been a suit originally brought in the.-ourt.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice MILLER did not sit in this case.

LEE COUNTY v. Ro0ERS.
1. The principle of law held by this court in 0elpcke v. The City of Dubuquef
(1 Wallace, '76-223)-the principle, namely, that bonds, issued by
counties, cities, or towns, in Iowa, to railrad companies, for ptock in
,such companies; and which said bodies, at the time the bonds were
issued, were held, by the settled adjudications of the highest courts of
the State, to possess full power, unde its constitution and laws, to issue
,the same, are ever after valid and binding upon the body issuing them,in the hands of a bondfide holder, although, the same courts may subsequently reverse their previous decisions-is not opedi for re-examination
in this court.
2. The doctrine of lispendens has no application to a case where there were
three distinpt and independent suits, with an interval of one year between
the first and 'second, and of two years between the second and third.

IN error to the Northern Circuit Court of fllinois.

Rogers brought suit against Lee County, Iowa, up'on the
coupons of certain bonds signed by one Boyles, county judge,
issued by the county under the county seal, to a certain railroad company named.*
* The suit was originally brought in the Iowa circuit, but like the ifist
one was transferred to Illinois. The preceding case renders further allusion
to this fact unnecessary.

