Dec. 1868.]

WARD V. SMITHT.
Statement of the case.

WARD V. SMITH.
1. The designation of a bank as the place of payment of a bond, imports a
stipulation that its holder will have it at the bank when due to receive
payment, and that the obligor will produce there the funds to pay it.
2. If the obligor is at the bank, at the maturity of the bond, with the necessary funds to pay it, he so far satisfies the contract that he cannot be
made responsible for any future damages, either as costs of suit or in-terest, for delay.
3. Where an instrument payable at a bank is lodged with the bank for col' lection, the bank becomes the agent of the payee to receive payment.
4. Where such instrument is not lodged with the bank, whatever the bank
receives from the maker to apply upon the instrument, it receives as his
agent, not as thq agent of the payee.
5 Without special authority, an agent can only receive payment of the debt
due his principal in the legal currency of the country, or in bills which
pass as money at their par value by the common consent of the community.
6. The doctrine that bank bills are a good tender, unless objected to at the
time, on th7 ground that they are not money, only applies to current
bills, which are redeemed at the counter of the bank on presentation,
and pass at par value in business transactions at the place where offered.
7. If the rule that interest is not recoverable on debts between alien enemieq
during war of their respective countries, is applicable to debts between
citizens of States in rebellion and citizens of States adhering to the National government in the late civil war, it can only apply when the
money is to be paid to the belligerent directly; it cannot apply when
there is a known agent appointed to receive the money, resident within
the same jurisdiction with the debtpr. In this latter case the debt will
draw interest.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of Maryland.
In August, .860, William Ward, a resident of Alexandria
in Virginia, phrchased of one Smith, of the same place, then
administrator'of the estate of Aaron Leggett, deceased, certain real property situated inthe State of Virginia and gave
him for the consideration-money three joint and several
bonds of himself and Francis Ward. These bonds, each
of which was fdr a sum exceeding four thousand dollars, bore
date of the 22d of that month, payable, with interest, in six 1 ,
twelve, and eighteen months after date, "at the office of discount and deposit of the Farmers' Bank of Virginia, at,Alexan

dria."

..

WARD) V. SMITH:

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

In February, 1861, the first bond was deposited at the
bank designated for collection. At the time there was indorsed upon it a credit of over five hundred dollars; and it
was admitted that, subsequently, the further sum of twentyfivo hundred dolars was received by Smith, and' that the
amount of certain taxes on the estate purchased, paid.by the
Wards, was to be deducted.
In May, 1861, Smith left Alexandria, where' he then resided, and went to Prince William County, Virginia, and

remained within the Vonfederate military lines during the
continuance of the civil war. He took with him the other
two bonds, which were never'deposited at the Farmers'
Bank for collection. Whilst he was thus absent from Alexandria, William Ward deposited with the bank to his credit
at different times, between June, 1861, and April, 1862,
various sums, in notes of different banks of Virginia, the
nominal amount .of which exceeded by several thousand
dollars the balance due on the first bond. These notes were
at a discount at the times they were deposited, varying from
eleven to twenty-three per cent. The cashier of the bank
indorsed the several sums thus received as credits on the
first bond; but 'he testified that le made the indorsenrent
without the knowledge or request of Smith. It was not
until June, 1865, that Smith was informed of the deposits
to his credit, and'he at once refused to sanction the transaction and accept the deposits, and gave notice to the cashier
of the bank and to the'Wards, obligees in the bond, of his
refusal. The cashier thereupon erased the indorsements
made by him on the bond.
Smith now brought the pregent action upon the three
bonds to recover their entire amount, less the sum credited
on the first bond when it was deposited, the sum of twentyfive hundred dollars, subsequently Teceived by the plaintiff,
and the amount of the taxes paid by the defendants on the
estate purchased.
The court below instructed the jury, that if they found that
the defendants executed the bonds, the plaintiff was entitled
to recover their amounts, less the credit indorsed on the first,

Dec. 1868.]

WARD V. SMIT.
Argument for the plaintiffs in error.

one, and the taxes paid. by defendants, and the subsequent
payment to the plaintiff with interest on the same. The
plaintiff recovered, and the- defendants brought the ease to
this court by writ of error.
Messrs. Brown and F. W. Brune,for the plaintiffs in error:
1. When securities are left with a bank for collection, the
bank is, ipso facto, made the agent of the payee, to receive
payment thereof. It is the agent of the payee, not of -the

payer.*
2. The bank may release the payer by receiving payment
in gold, silver, copper, drafts, or checks on other banks or
private bankers, bank notes of its own or other banks, circulating at par or below par.
It matters not what may be the particular kind or forms
of money accepted by the bank, its relation of agent towards
its principal and the debtoi ceases the moment the funds so
received are mingled with its bwn funds, and credit it given
on its books for the amount so collected as cash.
The relationship of debtor and creditor, from that moment, subsists between the bank and its former principal,
and tire bank is liable for the full amount so credited.t
3. It was stipulated in the bonds that they should be payable at the Farmers' Bank; and it was thus made part of
the contract that all the bonds' should be deposited in that
bank by the payee, Smith, at maturity, or before; so that
the obligors might be able to make payment of them at the
bank, according to the law and usage of banks, in making
collections and receiving payments.1
It is not pretended that the payee, Smith, gave any instructions to the bank, or made any communication to the
Marine Bank v. Fulton Bank, 2 Wallace, 252.
j- Wallace v.McConnell, 13 Peters, 136, 150; Bank of the United States
v. Bank of Georgia, 10 Wheaton, 333, 341, 344, 346, 347; Levy v.Bank of
the United States, 4 Dallas, 234; Mlarine Bank v. Birney, 28 Illinois, 90
Same v.Rushmore, Id. 463; Tinkham v.Heyworth,.31 Illinois, 522.
$ Fitler v.Beckle-, 2 Watts and Sergeant, 458, 462; Brabston v.Gibson
9 Howar5, 263, 279.
29
VOL Vii.
*

WARD V. S'MITH.

[S.ip.- Ct

Opinion of the court.

obligors, attempting to modify or qualify the general law
arid practice of banks in reference to such matters.
4. The defendants were entitled to have credited to them
tle notes they deposited at the bank for the plaintiff, either
at their par or actual value; and the court erred in allowing
them only the three previous credits mentioned in its instruction; and in allowing plaintiff interest on the entire
balance during the war.*
Messrs. B. J and J. L. Brent, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court, as follows:
The defendants claim that they are entitled to have the
amounts they deposited, at the Farmers' Bank in Alexandria, credited to them on the bonds in suit, and allowed as
a set-off to the demand of the plaintiff. They make this
claim upon these grounds: that by the provision in the
bonds, niaking them payable at the Farmers'"Bank, the
parties contracted that the bonds should be deposited there
for collection either before or at maturity; that the bank
was thereby constituted, whether the instruments were or
were not deposited with it, the agent of the plaintiff for
their collection.; and that as such agent it could receive in
payment, equally with gold and silver, the notes of any banks,
whether circulating at par or below par, and discharge the
obligors.
We do not state th'ese grounds in the precise language of
counsel, but we state them substantially.
It is undoubtedly true that the designation of the place
of payment in the bonds.imported a stipulation that their
holder should have them at the bank, when due, to receive
payment, and that the obligors would produce there the
Jackson Ins. Co. v. Stewart, 15 American Law Reg. (6 Now Series), 732,
and note, 735; Tucker v. Watson, Id. 220; Btewer io. Hastie, 3 Call, 22;
Hoare v., Allen, 2 Dallas, 102; Foxeraft v. Nagle, Id. 132, Letter of Mr
Jefferson, 1 American State Papers, pp. 257, 304-312.

Dec. 1868.]

WARD V.

SMITH.

Opinion of the court.

funds to pay them. It was inserted for the mutual convenience of the parties. And it is the general usage in such
cases for the holder of the instrument to lodge it with the
bank for collection, and the party bound for its payment
can call there and take it up. If the instrument be not there
lodged, and the obligor is there at its maturity with the
necessary funds to pay it, he so far satisfies the contract that
he cannot be made responsible for any future damages,
either as costs of suit or interest, for delay. When the instrument is lodged with the bank for collection, the bank
becomes the agent of the payee or obligee to receive payment. The agency extends no further, and without special*
authority an agent can only receive payment of the debt
due his principal in the legal currency of the country, or ih
bills which pass as money at their par value by the common
consent of the community. In the case at bar only one bond
was deposited with the Farmers' Bank. That institution,
therefore, was only agent of the payee for its collection. It
had no authority to receive payment of the other bonds for
him or on his account. Whatever it may have received
from the obligors to be applied on the other bonds, it received as their agent, not as the agent of the obligee. If
the notes have d6preciated since in its possession, the loss
must be adjusted between the bank and the depositors; it
cannot fall upon the holder of the bonds.
But even as agent of the payee of the first bond, the bank
was not. authorized to. receive in its payment depreciated
notes of the banks of Virginia. The act that those notes
constituted the principal currency in which the ordinary
transactions of business were conducted in Alexandria, callnot alter the law. The notes were not a legal tender for the
debt, nor could they have been sold for the amount due in
legal currency. The doctrine that bank bills are a good
tender, unless objected to at the time, on the ground that
t'hey are not money, only applies to current bills, which are
redeemed at the counter of the bank on presentation, and
pass at par valuein business transactions at the place where
offered. Notes not thus current at their par value, nor re-

WARD V). SMITH.

.[Sup.

Ct.

Opinion of the court.

deemable on presentation, are not a good tender to principal
oragent, whether they are objected to at the time or not.
In Ontario Bank v. Lighbody,* it was held that the payment of a check in the bill of a bank which had previously
suspended was nnt a satisfaction of the debt, though tl~e
suspension was unknown by either of the parties, and the
bill was current at the time, the court observing that the
bills of banks could only be considered and treated as money
so long as they are redeemed by the bank in specie.
That the power of a collecting agent by the general law
is limited to receiving for the debt of his principal that
which the law declares to be a legal tender, or A9hich is by
common consent considered and treated as money, and
passes as such at par, is established by all the authorities.
The only condition they impose upo the principal, if anything else is received by his agent, is, that he shall inform
the debtor that he refuses to sanction the unauthorized trans-.
action within a reasonable period after it is brought to his
knowledge.t
The objection that the bonds did not draw interest pending the civil war is not tenable. The defendant Ward, who
purchased the land, was the principal debtor, and he resided
within the lines of the Union forces, and the bonds were
there, payable. It is not necessary to consider here whether
the rule that interest is not recoverable on debts between
alien enemies, during war of their respective countries, is
applicable to debts between citizens of States in rebellion
and citizens of States adhering to the National government
in' the late civil war. That rule can only apply when the
money is to be paid to the belligerent directly. When an
agent appointed to i eceive the money resides within the
same jurisdiction with the debtor, the latter cannot justify
his refusal to pay the demand, and, of course, the interest
which it bears. It does not follow that the agent, if he re".3 Wendell, 105.
f tory on Promissory Notes, 115, 389; Graydon v. Patterson, 13 Iowa.
236; Ward -. Evans, 2 Lord Raymond, 930; Howard v. Chapman, 4 Carrinston & Pryne, 608.

Dec. 1868.]

WARD V. SMITH.
Opinion of the court.

ceive the money, will violate the law by remitting it to his
alien principal. "The rule," says Mr. Justice Washington,
in onn v. Penn, "can never apply in cases where the creditpr,
although a subjedt of the enemy, remains in the country of
the debtor, or has a known agent there authorized to receive
the debt, because the payment to such creditor or his agent
could in no respect be construed into a violation of the duties
imposed by a state of whr upon-the debtor. The payment
in such cases is not made to an enemy, and it is no objection
that the agent may possibly-remit the money to his principal. If he should do so, the oftence is imputable to him,
and not to the person paying him the money."* Nor can
the rule apply when one of several joint debtors resides
within the same country with the creditor, or with the
known agent of the creditor. It was so held in -Paul v.

Chmise.t

Here the principal debtor resided, and the agent of the
creditor for the collection of the irst bond was situated
within the Federal lines and jurisdiction. No rule respecting intercourse with the enemy could apply as between
Marbury, the cashier of the bank at Alexandria, and Ward,
the principal debtor residing ai the same place.
The principal debtor being within the Union lines could
have protected himself against the running of interest on
the other two bonds, by attending qn their maturity at the
bank, where they were made payable, with the funds necessary to pay them. If the creditor within the Confederate
lines had not in that event an agent present to receive payment and surrender the bonds, he would have lost the right
to claim subsequont interest.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

* 1 Peters's Circuit Court, 496; Denniston v. Imbrie, 3 Washington

do. 396.
t 4 Harris and McHenry, 161.

