Dec. 1868.]

THIE GRAPESHOT.

56 '

Statement of the case.

the District of Louisiana is REVERSED; and the cause4a re-

manded to that court, with directions to proceed
IN

CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

THE GRAPESHOT.
1. Proof that papers, not contained in the record, were used in'the court
below, must be made by affidavit, not by certificate of the clerk.
2. A decree of the, Provisional Court of Louisiana, which was established
•by order of the President, during the rebellion, having been transfetred
into the Circuit Court, in pursuance of an act of Congress, must be regarded, in respect to appeal, as a decree 3f the Circuit Court

UPON two separate motions to dismiss an appegr from the
decree of the Circuit Court of thie United States for the
District of Louisiana; the decree being one transferred
'there under act of Congress, from the late so-called *" Provisional Court" of that'State; both motions being made by
Mr. Durant.
The ground of the first motion was because the transcript
was incomplete, "as appeared by the certificate of the clerk of
the lower court, as given in the printed transcript, and be:
cause it further appeared by the said certificate, that the missing parts of tle record could not be found, so that it was
useless to issue a certiorari," and on the whole impossible for
this court to hear and decide the case.
'he ground of the second motion was, that the Circuit
Court of the United States in Louisiana had rendered no
decree from which an appeal could be taken; so that this
court was without jtuisdiction.
This Provisional Court of Louisiana, as mentioned in the.
preceding case, had been established by proclamation of the
President, in October, 1862, when the war of the rebellion
had subverted and swept away the courts of the Union, and,
.by the terms of its constitution, was to last no longer than
till the civil authority was restored.

GENERES

v.

BONNEMER.

tSup. Ct..

Statement of the case.

The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The first motion to dismiss this appeal is made upon the
ground that the transcript of the record is incomplete, because of the omissioh of certain papers said to have been
used in the court below, but not to be found when the trans.cript was made.
The motion must be denied. Proqf that the papers alleged
to be wanting were used in the court below, and have been
lost, must be made by affidavit. The certificate of the clerk
who made the transcript cannot be received as proper evidence of these facts.
The other motion is made upon the ground that the decree
below was rendered by the Provisional Court of Louisiana,
established by the military authority of the President, during
the late rebellion, from which no appeal could be properly
taken. But we find, on looking into the statutes, that when
the Provisional Court ceased to exist, its judgments and decrees were directed to be transferred into the Circuit Court,
,And to stand as the judgments and decrees of 'that court.
And it is from the decree of the Circuit Court that the appeal
under consideration was taken. As an appeal from that'court
it was regular, and the motion to dismiss must be denied.
All questions concerning the validity of judgments and
decrees of the Provisional Court will remain open until after
final hearing.
MOTIONS DENIED.

GENE4ES V. BONNEMER.
Ajudgment affirmed in a'case where the only ruling of the court, to be
found in the record, was a judgment rendered in favor of a plaintiff for
the recovery of a sum of money; where there'was no question raised in
the pleadings, no bill of exceptions, and no instructions or ruling of the
court; and where what purported to be a statement of facts, signed by
the judge, was filed more than two months after the writ of error was
allowed and filed in the court, and nearly a month after the citation was
issued.

IN this case, which came on error to the Circuit Court for

Louisiana, it appeared that the only ruling of the court, to

