D c. 1868.] 'MORGAN ?..BELOIT,

CITY 'AND

TowN.

Syllabus..

foundation of this proceeding elongs.* We learn from the
record that the court below denied the Writ upon the ground'
that the statute under which the bonds were issued, providedthat the requisite tax should be levied by the supervisors of the town, and that this remedy was exclusive of
all others. '.There are several obvious answers to this view
of the subject. ,We'deem it sufficient to advert to one of.
them. In the case of -Bushnell v. Gatest this precise qubs-.
tion, arising under the same circumstances, came before the
Supreme Court of Wisconsin. It was held that the objection
was untenable, that the statute authorizing the writ to go
against the town clerk applied to th6 case, and that it was
conclusive. If there could otherwise have been any doubt
upon the question, this' determination by the highest court.
of the State giving a construction to the statute under consideration, is unanswerable. We need not further consider
the subject.
* The judgment below is REVERSED. A mandate will be
sent to the Circuit Court, directing that an order be entered
in the case
IN

MORGAN

v.

CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

BELOIT, CITY AND TowN.

Where the legislature creates a city, carving it out of a region previously
a town only, and enacts that all bonds which bad been previously issued
by the town should be paid when the same fell due, by the cit and town,
in the same proportions as if said town and city were not dissolved, and.
that if either at any time pays more than its proportion, the other shall
be liable therefor, a bill will lie in equity to enforce payment by the
two bodies respectively,.in the proportion which the assessment rolls
The Commissioners of Knox Co. V. Aspinwall, 24 Howard, 376; Von
Hoffman v. The City of Quincy, 4 Wallace, 535; Riggs v. Johnson County,
6 ld. 166.
t Not yet reported,

[Sup.

Ct

show that the property in one bearsto the property in the other.

A

614

MORGAN V. BELOIT, CITY AND TowN.
Statement of the case.

bondholder is not confined to mandamus or other legal remedies, if such
exist.

from the Circuit Court for Wisconsin.
In 1858, the legislature of Wisconsin authorized the town
of Beloit to subscribe to the stock of a railroad company,
and to pay therefor in bonds of the town. The town subscribed and issued its bonds, a portion of which came to the
hands of one Morgan, a bonafide purchaser.
In 1856, the legislature created the city of Beloit, this city
being carved out of a portion of the territory which had
constituted the town of Beloit. The charter of the new
city, thus provided:
APPEAL

"All .principal and interest upon all bonds which have heretofore been issued by the town of Beloit, . . . shallbe paid when
the same or any portion thereof shall fall due, by the city and town
of Beloit, in the same proportions as if said town and city were not
dissolved. And in case either town or city shall pay more than their
just and equal portion of the same at any time, the other party shall
be liable therefor."
This provision was re-enacted in 1857.
After the date of this act, and between it and 1867 inclu%ive-theinterest on the bonds being unpaid for every year
after 1854-Morgan brought several suits, in the Circuit
Court for Wisconsin, against "the town of Beloit," for the
interest die for the years respectively, and on the 25th of
September, 1867, got judgment against the town for it. The
judgments being unpaid, he now filed a bill in the court
below against the town and city of Beloit. The bill set forth
ficts above stated, alleged that the "amount of said judgments ought to be paid by said defendants in the proportions
respectivdly as provided in the said acts;" that the taxable
property of the city exceeded that of the town; and that
though the city "ought to pay the proportion provided in the
,lcts," yet that the complainant was remediless at law. It then
8howed, by tabular exhibit, the amount of the interest due on
the bonds held by him, in each year respectively, from 1855

Dec. 1868.]

MORGAN V. -BELOIT, CITY AND 'T6wN,

61,

Argumnent in support of the bill.

to 1867; then by like exhibit the proportion in value, which,
taking the rates of assessfaent made in each year as a basis,
the taxable property of what was now the town bore to'what.
was now the city, in every year, from, 1855 to 1867; then
showed, by similar exhibit, that,, taking these relative ex-'
hibits, the town Would be liable on the coupong for each
,respective year for so Imuch and the city for so much, tte
balance, namely; the whole making, with interest from
the date of the 'judgments obtained (which the bill alleged
"ought to be paid by the said town and city respectively"),
the sum, of $60,443, as against the city, and $17,986, as
against the towi.
After alleging that"' the city and town ought respectively
to -pax interest" on the respective total amounts, from thq
day when-the judgments were obtained till the actual payment of them, and "ought each, to pay- one-half the costs
the judgments," the bill c6ncluded thus:
recovered in"To the end, therefore, that the, said defendants may, if they
can, show why your orator should not have the relief her6y'
,and that your orator may
prayed, and may' upon oath, &c ....
have nuch other and further relief as the nature of his case may requir , and as sl~all be agreeable to equity land good conscience."
Prayer for subpcena, &c.
The defendants (town and city) demurred, and 'the bill
was dismissed. Appeal accordingly.
Mr. Carpenter,for the appellant.
The complainant was clearly entitled to some remedy.
against the-city for its proportion of the debt, and the'question. is, what was the appropriatb remedy?
On bonds given' by the town, a joint action at law could
not be maintained against the town and city.* To an action
at,law against the city alone, the plea of non estfactum would
be true'in fact and fatal in law. If any action at law cpula
be maintained against the city, itwould be debt founded on
Goodhue v. Beloit, 21 Wisconsin, 636.

616

MORGAN V. BELOIT, CIJTY AND TOWN.

[Sup.

Ct.

Argument against the bill.

the statute. But there would be the difficulty of settling, as
between the city and the town, the proportion which each
ought to pay, in an action where the town was not a party.
This consideration alone gives a court of equit 5 jurisdiction.
If the town were compelled to pay the whole debt, it would
be entitled, by the express provisions of the statute, to an
action against the city for its proportion. Circuity of actions
-that which courts desire to prevent-is therefore avoided
by maintaining a suit in equity against both. A court of
equity is the only tribunal that can render complete justice
between all the parties.
Messrs. Palmer and Ryan, contra:
The bill is without any prayer for special relief. What,
indeed, is its object? Is it for a declaratory decree of the
proportions in which the judgments should be paid by the
city and town, leaving the plaintiff' to his mandamus to enforce a tax accordingly? Or is it f6r a decree awarding eifecution against the defendants? No one can tell. The omission to make the'proper prayer is fatal. Even under the
dang~rofts and inconvenient rule, held in a few cases, that a
prayer for general relief is sufficient, and'that the special
relief may be prayedfor at the bar, on hearing, the bill must
indicate by its frame the special relief sought, which this bill
does not. But this court has wisely abrogated that rule, and
by its twenty-first rule in equity, provides that "the prayer
of the bifl shall ask the special relief to which the plaintiff
supposes himself entitled, and also shall contain a prayer for
general relief."
On merits, the case is not good. Though equity is liberal
in the adaptation of her remedies, she does not give a remedy to every party merely because he is in difficulty, nor
unless his difficulty be covered by some specific ground of
equitable jurisdiction. Here there is an adequate legal remedy by mandamnus. It may be a troublesome remedy. But
he has it. And equity will not devise a new ground of ju.
risdiction because a speculator in town bonds is unlucky in
hWs legal remedies.

Dee.

1868.] .MORGAN

V. I8ELOIT, CITY, A.-TD

TowN.

617

Opinion of the court.

.Reply:The prayer is, in effedt, a prayer for both special'and
general relief. But if it were for general relief alone, that
would be sufficient, upon the facts stated in the bill.*
Mr. Justice SWAYN-E delivered the opinion of the court.
The bill of the appellant presents the following case: In
the year 1853, the legislature of Wisconsin, by an act duly
pdssed, authorized the town of Beloit to subscribe for $100,000
of the stock of a iailroad company authorized to construct a
railroad from the city of Racinle to the village of Beloit, and
to make payment in its bonds to be issued for that purpose.
The bonds were accordingly issued. A portion of them cane
into the hqnds of the appellant, and he recovered upon them
the several judgments at law described in the bill. These
judgments are all in full force and unsatisfied. By an act
of the legislature, passed in 1856, the city of Beloit was created. It embraces a part of the territory which before constituted the town of Beloit. This act provides:
"That all principal and. interest upon all bonds w'hich have
heretofore been issued by the town of Beloit for railroad stock
or other purposes, shall be paid, when the same or any portion
thereof shall fall due, by the city and town of .Beloit, in the same
proportions as if the said city and town were not dissolved."

This provision was re-enacted in 1857.
It is averred that the city and town ought respectively to
pay the proportions set forth--of the judgments-with interest from their several dates. The prayer is for general relief.
The appellee demurred. The court sustained the demurrer,
and dismissed the bill. This appeal was thereupqn taken.
The two corporations are as separate and distinct as if the,
territories they embrace, respectively, had never been united.
It is obvious that, without a legislative provision to that ef•feet, ,the city would not be answerable at law for'the debts of
the town, incurred before the former was created. -Whether,
* Tayloe v. Insurance Compapy, 9 Howard, 390

618

MORGAN t. BELOIT, CITY AND Tow.N.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

but for the statute, the city there would have been chargeable in equity, it is not necessary to consider. The statute
is concluisive as to a liability, to be enforced in some form of
procedure. The only question before us is, whether there
is a remedy in equity. It may be, as suggested by the counisel for the appellant, that an action would lie upon the statute. It is also possible that a proper case for a writ of mandamus might be made. But these inquiries are only material
as bearing upon the question whether there is an adequate
remedy at law. If so, a suit in equity cannot be maintained.,
To have this effect, the remedy at law "must be as plain,
adequate, and complete," and "as practical and .efficient to
the ends of justice and to its prompt administration, as the
remedy in equity."* When the remedy at law is of this
character, the party seeking redress must pursue 't. In
such cases the adverse party has a constitutional right to a
trial byjury.t The objection is regarded as jurisdictional,
and may be enforced by the court suM sponte, though not
raised by the pleadings, nor suggested by counsel.1 The
provision upon the subject in the sixteenth section of the
Judiciary Act of -1789, was only declaratory of the pre-existing rule.
In the case before us the adjustment of the amount to be
paid by the city, will depend upon accounts and computations founded upon the proper assessment rolls. In order
to bind the town, it is necessary that it should be made a
party. This cannot be done in proceedings at law. If the
town should be compelled to pay the entire amount, the
right is given by the statute to recover back the proportion
for which the city is liable. This would involve circuity of
litigation. The remedy at law is, therefore, neither plain
nor adequate.
The question, whether a bill in equity will lie. is disembarrassed of this objection.
The authority to tax for the payment of municipal liabiliBoyce v. Grundy, 3 Peters, 215.
t Hipp v. Babin, 19 Howard, 278.
Fowle v. Lawrason, 5 Peters, 496; Dade v. Irwin, 2 Howard,.383.

Dec. 1868.]

BELOIT V. MORGAN.
Statement of the case.

ties, in cases-like this, is in the nature of a trust.* The jurisdiction of a court of equity to interfeie in all cases involving such an ingredient, is too clear to require any citation of
authorities. It rests upon an elementary principle of equity
jurisprudence.
"The power is reserved to a court of equity to act upon
*a principle often above-mentioned, namely, that whenever
there is a right it ought to be madeefectual."t Where there
is a right which the common law, from any imperfection,
cannot enforce, it is the province and duty of a court of
equity to supply the defectand furnish the remedy.1
The decree is REVERSED. A mandate will.be sent to the
Circuit Court directing that the demurrer be overruled, and
the cause proceeded in according to the principles of equity
and the ru] a of equity practice.

BELOIT V. MORGAN.

1. A judgment in favor of a bondholder upon certain municipal bonds, part
of a larger issue, against the town issuing them, is conclusive on a question of the validity of the issue on a-suit brought by the same creditor
against the same town, on other bonds, another part of the same issue;
the parties being identical, and all objections taken by the town in the
second suit having been open to be taken by it in the former one.
2. A legislative enactment created the city of Beloit, carving it out of territory previously covered by the town of Beloit only. The statute enacted thus:
"All principal and interest upon all bonds which have heretofore been issued by the town of'Beloit, for railroad stock or other purposes, shall be paid
when the same, or any portion of, the same, shall fall due, by the city and
town of Beloit, in the same proportions as if said town ande
city were not dissolved, such proportions to be apportioned," &o.

Held, that this made bonds issued by the town valid, assuming that previously to the act they were not so.

from the Circuit Court for Wisconsin.
The legislature of Wisconsin, by act of 1853, authorized
APPEAL

• Von. Hoffman v. The City of Quincy, 4 Wallace, 555.

t

1 Kaime's Prindiples of Equity, 3.
$ Quick v. Stuyvesaht, 2 Paige, 92.

