Dec.,1868.3

Dec.
LEE
188.1
'O'UNTi V. ,ROE
Statement of thease,

against the private -property. of any individual, inhabitant,
giving him the right to clAim contribution from the rest ,f
the people.
It is said that this practice preseribed for the State courts
of Iowa has not beenadopted by the United States circuit
for that district, anlhence that it is not competent f6r the
court in the present instance to follow thi mode of proceeding. But the ans'wer is that the court having charge of the.
cause 'under the act of 1839, is fully.competent -to adoptit
in the particular case, as its power is the same oy~r it as if.
it had been a suit originally brought in the.-ourt.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice MILLER did not sit in this case.

LEE COUNTY v. Ro0ERS.
1. The principle of law held by this court in 0elpcke v. The City of Dubuquef
(1 Wallace, '76-223)-the principle, namely, that bonds, issued by
counties, cities, or towns, in Iowa, to railrad companies, for ptock in
,such companies; and which said bodies, at the time the bonds were
issued, were held, by the settled adjudications of the highest courts of
the State, to possess full power, unde its constitution and laws, to issue
,the same, are ever after valid and binding upon the body issuing them,in the hands of a bondfide holder, although, the same courts may subsequently reverse their previous decisions-is not opedi for re-examination
in this court.
2. The doctrine of lispendens has no application to a case where there were
three distinpt and independent suits, with an interval of one year between
the first and 'second, and of two years between the second and third.

IN error to the Northern Circuit Court of fllinois.

Rogers brought suit against Lee County, Iowa, up'on the
coupons of certain bonds signed by one Boyles, county judge,
issued by the county under the county seal, to a certain railroad company named.*
* The suit was originally brought in the Iowa circuit, but like the ifist
one was transferred to Illinois. The preceding case renders further allusion
to this fact unnecessary.

182?,

LEE COUNTY

v. ROGERS.

[Sup. ot,

Opinion of the court.

The defences, as appearing on answer and amended an
swer, were:
1. That the bonds were issued and executed by Boyles,
county judge, &c., "without any authority of law, having
been issued for the purpose of subscribing on behalf of this
defendant to the stock of certain railroad corporations, which
the defendant had no power or authority to do," and that
they were "utterly null and void from the beginning."
2. That a bill had been filed by McMillan and others, taxpayers of Lee County, against Boyles, the countyjudge, &c.,
on the 1st October, 1856, in a State court, before any bonds
were issued, afid that he was enjoined, on account of irregularities in preliminary proceedings, at the December Term,
1856, against issuing the bonds; that soon afterwards, in
January, 1857, the legislature passed an act confirming and
legalizing these proceedings; that a second bill .was filed, by
the same parties, on the 26th February, 1859, a year after
this act of the legislature, for the purpose of having both
the act, and also the bonds, which, in the meantime, had
-been issued, declared void, and that on the 22d June, 1858,
a decree was rendered, declaring both the act and the bonds
valid and binding; that a third bill 'vas filed, which was a
bill of review of the previous case, on the 28th July, 1860,
two years after the previous decree, and that on the 18th
October, 1862, a decree was rendered declaring the act of
the legislature, and bonds, void and of no effect.
The defence meant to be set up by this second head was,
of course, that of lis pendens.
The defendant demurred, and the court below sustaining
the demurrer, the case was now brought here by the county.
It was submitted by Mr. AcaOrary, on elaborate briefs of his
ow?, and of ikfessrs. Serple and Casey; and by Messrs. -Dickand
Grant, on similar briefs of theirs.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The defence is placed, by the learned counsel for the de
fendant, in Ihis brief, upon two grounds:

Dec. 1868.]

LEE COUNTY

V.

' GER8.

183

Qpinion of the court.

1. That the county is not liable, on the bonds or coupons,
for the reason there was .no power in the county to subscribe
for the stock, to the railr6ad company, or to i~sue the bonds;
that they are void, as against the constitution and. laws of the
State.
2, That prior to the date of the bonds and c6upons, certain suits were instituted, in the District Court of Lee
County, impeaching the validity of the bonds, ifissued, and
charging that they woqld constitute no indebtedness against
the county, and claiming that the county judg@, who was thb
fiscal agent of the county, should be enjoined from issuing
the bonds; that an injunction" was granted, and that the
bonds were issued, litependente, and put on the maniket, with
full notice of the pendency of the suit; that this suit was
continuously. and'siecessfully, prosecuted, and the courts of
the State had adj6dged -the b6nds to be .null and void, and
the collection'of the same.perpetually enjoined.
I. As to-the power or authority of the county to subscribe
for railroad stock, and to issue-bonds therefor.
Much the largest portion of the brief of the counsel is de-'
voted to a very able discussidn'of this question. But, after
the decision of this court in the case of Gedpcke v. The 'ty
bf Dubuque,* and the series of cases following it, we must
decline a re-examinatibn of the question. We regret the
difference of opinion on the subject of these bonds, between
this court and, the qourts of the State of Iowa; but it involves
a principle and 'ule of property; in our opinion, so just, and
so essential to the protection of the rights of the bond fide
nolder of this class of securities, that, however much we
may re~pect tlie judgment of those differing from us, we
cannot give up our own. that difference, as we understand it, consists in this: This court held, in Gelpoce v. The
Ply of Dubuque, that bonds, issued by counties, cities, or
towns, in Iowa, to railroad companies, for stock in*said
companies, and which said bodies, at the time the bonds
were issued, were held, by the settled adjudications of the
* 1 Wallace, 176-228.

LEE COUNTY V. ROGERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

highest courts of the State, to possess-full power, under its
constitution and laws, to issue the same, are ever after valid
and binding upon the body issuing them, in the hapds of a
bond fide holder. Since these bonds were issued,.and in the
hands of bone fide holders for value, the courts of Iowa have
reversed their previous decisions, and now hold that these
bodies possess no such power under the -onstitution and
laws of the State, and hence they are void, even in the
hands of the bonefide holder. The learned and elaborate
argument of the counsel for the plaintiff in errol, in this
case, is devoted to the support, of these more recent decisions, and the earnestness and care with -which he has discussed the question, Which series of cases shall prevail?
leave no doubt of the sincerity of his conviction. But, for the
reasons stated, we must respectfully decline following him.
I. The second ground of defence involves the cuestion
of notice to the plaintiff below, or, in other words, the effect
of the lis pendens, as claimed by the counsel. In order to
examine this branch of the defence, understandingly, it will
be necessary to recur, for a few moments, to the facts as they
appear in the answer.
The first suit, by MJlclrillen and others v. Boyles County
Judge, was commenced by petition or bill, October, 1856,
and terminated in a decree to enjoin the defendant, December Term thereafter.
The opinion of the Supreme Court, in this case; is in the
record.* The court held, the election, by the-voters in the
county, under the direction of the county judge, to have
been irregular in several particulars, as not being in conformity to the act providing for a submission of the question
of subscribing for the stock and issuing the bonds. At this
time it does not appear that any stock had been subscribed
for or bonds issued. The question was presented, in this
case, and pressed by counsel for the petitioner, whether or
not the county possessed competent power to issue th bonds
under the constitution and laws of the State?
* Reported in 3 Iowa, 311.

Dec. 1868.]'

LEEB COUNTY V. ROGER9.
Opinion of the court.

Jtidcge Stockton, who delivered the opiniort, as it respects
this question, observed, "We do not deem it expedient or
necessary, at the present time, to enter into an examination
of the other questions presented*and discussed by couinsel.
Their inherent importance, and the great interest felt iiitheir decision by a large portion of the people of-the State,
admonish us of the. patient study and deliberation with
which their investigation must be attended. '_Another reason, he observes,, which 'has had its weight'with us, is, it is
understood that the questions raised have been pressed upon,
and decided by, tle former members of this court, in the case
of the County of Dubuque v. The 7Dubupue and Pacific .Railroad
Comjpany."
Soon after this decision, the legislature being .in session,
an act was passed to cure the defects in the proceedings before the county judge in the submission of the question 'to
the voters, which became a law onthe 29th January, 1857.
This act is very e6mnpreheusive. After confirming the pro:
ceedings in the first section,.it declares that "the subscriptions made by said county, &c., and the ibonds of said
counties, &c., issued in: pursuance of said votes and subscription, or hereafter to be issued, are hereby declared to
be legal and valid; and that all such bonds issued, an.d
hereafter to be issued, in pursuance of such votes and subscriptions, Ahall be a valid lien upon the taxable property-of
said county, &c."
The'second section is equally emphatic. It provides, that"the-county-judge, &c., or other proper authorities of said
county, &c., shall levy and collect a tax to meet the payment
of the principal and interest of such bonds; and the counties,
&c., shall not be allowed to plead in any suit brought to recover the principal or interest of such bonds, that the same
are usurious, irregular, or invalid, in consequence of the informalities. cured, by this act,"
The third section re-affirms the validity of all bonds theretofore issued by the county,, and the subscriptions to the
railroads, notwithstanding any informalities or irregularities
in the submission of the question to the vote of the pdople..

L E

COUNTY V. ROGERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

A second suit was brought by petition or bill, by McMillen and others, against the judge of the county, on the 26th
February, 1858, to enjoin him from levying a tax, and to
have the confirmatory law declared to be unconstitutional,
and the bonds void. This suit was commenced more than
a year after the passage of the act; and such, proceedings
were had therein, that the District Court of the County of
Lee dismissed it; and, on appeal, this decree was affirmed
on the 22d 'June, 1858. The opinion of the court is in the
record.* It was delivered by Chief Justice Wright. He
obseives, "The power of a county to take stock in a -company organized for the purpose of constructing a railroad,
or other public improvement, through the same, has been
recognized by a majority of this court in the following
,cases." He then refeizs to, Dubuque v. Dubuque and.Pacific
Railroad Cornpany,t Leech v. Bissel, County Judge of Cedar
Counly, and 'Clapp v. Cedar County,J and Bing v. Johnson,
decided at the present term.§ He adds, "While I have
never concurred in this ruling, and still deny the power,
yet it may now, as I suppose, be regarded as settled." He
then examines the question whether the legislature had
power to pass the act of 29th January, 1857; and whether
it had the effect of legalizing the vote taken in Lee County,
and comes to\ the conclusion that the legislature was perfectly competent tolegalize and make valid the proceedings
before the county judge.
This decision of the highest court of the State upon the
power of the county to issue the bonds, of which those in
question are a part, and also upon the power of the legislature to confirm the irregularities committed in the preliminary steps to their issue, would seem to have put an end to
any controversy concerning them. They have the sanction
of both the legislative and judicial departments of the State.
Higher authority could not be invoked in their favor. If the
holders or purchasers cannot confide in these sanctions in
Reported in 6 Iowa, 391.
+ 5 Iowa, 15.

-

t 4 Green, 1
6 Id. 265.

Dec."1868.]

-

.LEE COUNTY'V" ROGERS.

187

Opiniod of the boyrt.

parting with : their'money,0 they may Well de~pair of' an
safety or se'curity in their dealings in' them.
Now, \what is the answer to all ±his authority?
On thd 28th July, 1860, twoyeArs after thi& judgment
affirming the validity of the bonds, a petition or bill of review
was filed in .a district court for the purpose of obtaining a
re-exdmination of the judgment; and such'proceedings were
had, that on the 18th October, 1862, the Supreme ,Court adjudged'that the bonds and coupons, together with the vote
of the county of Lee, by Which it' is clained they were au-.
thorized, and the 'subscription to the- stock of the railroad
companies' and all other acts and things dbne' in and about
,the premises by the county judge and his predecessors in
office, and the levy 6f taxes, &c., are'all' unauthorized by
law and utterly void; and thAt the act of the legis]atui "
curing or attemping to 'cure the irregulaiities in the vote
of the county are also held to be null and-void. -This ca~e
is reported in 14 Iowa, p. 107. It is due to the learned
counsel for the plaifitiffin error to say, that he does n6t put,
this branch of the defence on :the-ground that the last decision in the case should prevail over' the prior one holding,
the bonds to be valid, after the legislative sanctiou; but
puts it on thi8 ground in his own Words,niamely: .'That the
court erred in susfaining the demurrer to the' answer and

amended answ~r Of defendant, in so far as they set up the'
pendency of a suit to cancel said bobds "atthe 'time of. their
issue, and ht the time of plaintiff's purchase, and Which suit
being continuously prosecuted resulted in a decree declaring
invalid the bbuds.".'
Now, there are two afiswers to tbi ground of dbfence:.
First, the suit brought to enjoin the issuing of the bonds for
irregularities' in the. vote of the county, and the judgmeni
enjoining the judge was disposed of by the coifirmatory act
•of the legislature. By that act the irregularities were cured,
and the bonds already issued or thereafter to be issued were
declared valid. After this act notice was an element of no
importance. The suit was at an end. The whole foundation on which it rested was removed. This was so regarded

GORDON V. UNITED STATES.

[-sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

by the plaintiffs, for two years afterwards they brought a
second suit to have the bonds declared void for want of
power in the county to idsue them; and also the act of the
legislature for the want of power to confirm the irregularities
in the vote. The decision in that case, however, as we have
saen, was adverse to both these propositions.In the second place, there was no pending litigation from
the commencehient of the first suit to he termination of
the last, namely, from the 15th of October, 1856, to the 18th
of October, 1862.
There were three distinct and independent suits, with an
interval of one year between the first and second, and of two
years between the second and third. The doctrine of hs
pendens, therefore, has no application to the case.
JUDGMENT AFbIRMED.

Mr. Justice MILLER did not sit in this case.

GORDON V. UNITED STATES.
L. An act of Congress referring a claim against the government to an officer
of one of tne executive depar,-nents, to examine and adjust, does not,
even though, the claimant and government act under the statute, and
tlie account is examined and adjusted, make the case one of arbitrament
and award in the technical sense of these words, and sq as to, bind either
party as by submission to award.
Hen6e a subsequent act repealing the one making the reference (the
claim not being yet paid), impairs no right and is valid. De Groot v.
United States (5 Wallace, 432) affirmed.

2. Semble that the court does not sanction the allowance of interest on
claims against the government.
APPEAL

from the Court of Claims; the case having been

thus:
The legal representatives of George Fisher, deceased, by
petition represented to the court just named, that during
the lifetime of the said George, and in the year 1813, a
large amount of his property in Florida was taken or destroyed by tletroops of the United States. That bfore his

