.6ee. 1868.]

RAND'ALL V. BRIGHAX.
Statement of the case.

ruled the motion, because the assignees could
terest inn suit for an infringement committed
right accrued.*
Attempt is made to distinguish the casd at
rule established in those, cases, but, in the view
without success.
JUDGMENT REVERSED.

have no inbefore their
bar from the
of thiis court,

NEW VENIRE ORDERED.

RANDALL V. BRIGHAm.
1. An action fot damages does not lie against, a judge of a court of general
jurisdiction, for removing, whilst holding court, an attorney-at-law,
from the bar, for malpractice and misconduct in his office, the" court
being empowered by statute to remove attorneys for "any deceit, malpractice, or other gross misconduct;" and having heard the attorney.
removed, ir explanation 'of his conduct in the transaction which was
the subject of complaint. And such action will not lie against the
judge, e- an if the court, in making the removal, exceeds its jurisdiction,
unless perhaps in the case where the act is done maliciously or cor-

ruptly.
2. All j-. dicial officers are exempt from liability, in 4 civil action, for their
judicial acts, done within their jurisdiction; and judges of superior or
general authority, are exempt from such liability, even when their judicial acts are in excess of their, jurisdiction,'unless perhaps where the
acts in excess of their jurisdiction are done maliciously or corruptly.
3. Formal allegations, making specific charges of malpractice or unprofelsional conduct, are not essential as a foundation for proceedings against
attorneys. All that is requisite to their validity, is that, when not taken
for matters occurring in open court, in the presence of the judges, notice
should be given to the attorney of the charges made, and opportunity
uaforded him fbr explanation and defence. The manner in which the
proceeding shall be conducted, so that it be without oppression or injus-'
tice, is a matter of judicial regulation.
4. The construction given to a provision of the constitution of a State, by
the highest court of that State, not called in question by any conflicting
decision of that court, is conclusive upon this court.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts.
This action was brought by the plaintiff, who was formerly an attorney and counsellor-at-law in MassachUtetts,
* Iilborn v. Rewee, 8 Gray, 415; 1 H illiard on T. 521; Eades y.Harris,
1 Younge '& Collier, 280.

RANDALL

v.

BRIG9AM.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

against the defendant, who was one of the justices of the
Superior Court of that State, for an alleged wrongful removal
by him, of the plaintiff from the bar.
The substantial facts, as established by the evidence pro.
duced by the plaintiff, and by the records of the State court,
introduced by consent, upon which the removal was made,
were these-In August, 1864, one Leighton was arrested upon a charge
of larceny, and confined in jail in Boston to await the action
of the grand jury in the Superior Court, upon his failure to
give a recognizance with sureties in four hundred dollars,
required for his appearance. While thus confined, he retained the plaintiff as his attorney, to whom he expressed a
willingless to enlist in the army or navy of the United States,
ifthe,prosecution could be discontinued. The plaintiff thereupon proposed to the district attorney to dispose of the prosecution in this way. That officer declined to accede to the
proposition at that time, but encouraged the plaintiff to expect that he would not object to such an arrangement in
court, if the presiding judge approved of,it, when the indictment was presented.
The plaintiff and his father, without any-further arrangement with the district attorney, thereupon became sureties
for Leighton, who, upon his release, proceeded to the office
of the plaintiff, and there signed with js, mark-he not
being able to write-au agreement to enlidt as a substitute
for one Brown, of Lowell, for fbui"hundred dollars, which sum
was to be retained by the plaintiff; without any subsequent
claim upon him, as indemnity for his becoming surety on
the recognizance, and also to pay the plaintiff four hundred
dollars for furnishing bail.
Leighton subsequently enlisted in flie naval service as a
substitute for Brown, who paid the plaintiff, for the enlistment, eight hundred and thirty dollars. Of this sum, the
plaintiff gave Leighton, when the latter went on board the
vessel to which he was assigned, the sum of ten dollars.
Subsequently he paid one hundred dollars to Leighton's
older. The balance he retained.

Dec. 1868.],

RANDALL V. BRIGHABI.
Statement of the case.

Some weeks afterwards, Leighton wrote a letter to the
captain of his vessel, stating that he was promised four hun.
dred dollars for his enlistment, by his lawyer, the plaintiff;
that he had only received ten dollars; and that, when he applied to the plaintiff for settlement, evasive answers were all
he obtained. He referred, in the letter, to the fact that he
had a wife and two children dependent upon him for support, and he appealed to the captain to see that justice was
'done him., This letter was shown to the plaintif, who replied that he had paid Leighton all he had agreed to, and
should not pay him another cent. The wife of Leighton
also applied'to the plaintiff for a portion of the bounty of
her husband, in his hands, stating that the destitution of
herself and children was such that she should be qbliged to
give them up to the city, to whom he replied by advising
her to do-so, and gave her nothing.
The captain then sent the letter to the grand jury of the
county, at the time sitting upon Leighton's case. The jury,
of course, could not act upon the letter, and its fbreman requested the prosecuting officer to bring it before the court.
This was accordingly done, the defendant being at the time
the presiding justice. The plaintiff was thereupon sent for,
and, in open court, his attention was called to the letter, andit was notified to him that on the following Wednesday iten
five days distant, his professional conduct and standing at
the bar would be considered..
At the time designated, he appeared, and showed that,
after his citation, he had paid to Leighton the balance of
the four hundred dollars, which Leighton claimed he was
entitled to receive. This right of Leighton was never adnitted until after the'attention of the court had been directed
to the matter.
The court being of opinion that the plaintiff took'advantage of the situation of Leighton, and obtained from him an
agreement, which, under the circumstances, was unconscionable and extortionate, and. therefore grossly unprofespional ;
that he had induced Leighton to enlist by making him believe that his release from the prosecution would be accom.

526

RANDALL V. BRIGHM.

[Sup. Cr,

Statement of the case.

plished by his enlistment, and that the money obtained by the
enlistment subsequently paid to Leighton was paid only in
consequence of the inquiry instituted into the professional
conduct of the plaintif, he having previously denied that he
was bound to pay anything, found. that he had violated his
oath of office as an attorney-at-law, and was guilty of malpractice and gross misconduct in his office, and consequently
ordered that he be removed from his office as an attorney-atlaw within the commonwealth of Massachusetts. Thereupon,
the plaintiff brought this suit. The declaration charged the
removal to have been made without lawful authority, and
wantonly, arbitrarily, and oppressively.
Upon the evidence produced, the court below instructed
the jury that the action could not be maintained, and that
their verdict should be fir the defendant. Such verdict was
accordingly rendered, and the plaintiff brought the case here.
The general statutes of Massachusetts* provide that "an
attorney may be removed by the Supreme Judicial Court or
Superior Court, for any' deceit, malpractice, or other gross
misconduct ;" and also that "a person admitted in any court
may, practise in every other court in the State; and there
shall be no distinction of counsellors and attorneys."
The oath required of attorneys on their admission is as
follows:
"You solemnly swear that you will do no falsehood, nor consent to the doing of any in court; you will not wittingly or
willingly promote or sue any false, groundless, or unlawful suit,
nor give aid or consent to the same; you will delay no man for
lucre or malice; but you will conduct yourself in the office of
an attorney, within the courts, according to the best of your
knowledge and discretion, and with all good fidelity as well to
the courts as your clients. So help you God."
The Superior Court of Massachusetts is a court of general
jurisdiction. Indeed, its jurisdiction is the most general of
any court in Massachusetts.t
*

. 121,

84.

tGeneral Statutes, c. 114.

Dec. 1868.]

RANDALL

v.

BRIGRAM.

Argument for the'attorney.

Mr.-Randall,plaintiff in error, in pr~priapersona:
1. The plaintiff's office of attorney-at-law is property. And
it has been variously declared by the courts to be~a "license,"
a "privilege," a "franchise," a "ffreehold," a "right to practise law in courts," a "profession which is the high road to
wealth and distinction."
The grant of the ".office of attorney," at common law, is
the grant of an office for the life, or during the good behavior, of the grantee.
In HEurst's Case,* a mandamus Was granted to restore an
attorney to his office, because, declares Lord Holt,
"He is an officer concerningthe public justice, and is compellable to be attorney for any man, and has a freehold in'his
place."
In Ex parte Garlandtthis court says:
"An attorney and counsellor being, by the solemn judicial act
of the court, -clothed with his office, does not hold it as a matter
of grace and favor. The right which it confers upon him to appear for suitors, and to argue causes, is something more than a
mere indulgence, revocable at the pl6asure of the court, or at
the command of the legislature. ,It is a right of which he can
only be.deprived by the judgment of the court, for moral or
professional delinquency."
In Ex parte Austin,T Gibson, d. T., delivering the opinion
of the Supreme Court of Pennfsylvauia, thus speaks:
"An attorney-at-law is an officer of the court, and his office
is an office for life. The grant of an office without express limitation at common law being taken most strongly against the
grantor, endures for the life of the grantee; and thougli the
principle has niot been applied to offices within the grant of the
executive, it must necessarily be applied to the office of attorney. For, to subject the members of the profession to removal
at the pleasure of the court, would leave them too small a share
of the independence necessary to the duties they are called upon
*'I Levinz. 75

t 4 Wallace, 333.

$ 5 Rawle, 194.

RANDALL V.

BRIGHaM.

[Sup, 0..

Argument for the attorney.

to perform to their clients and to the public.

As a class, they

are supposed to be, and, in fact, have always' been, the vindicators of individual rights, and th6 fearless assertors of the principles of civil liberty; existing, where alone they can exist, in a
government, not of parties or men, but of laws."
And this view of the dignity of the attorney's office is supported by all authorities.*
I The constitution of Massachusetts ordains as follows:
"No subject shall be held to answer for any crimes or offence,
until the same is fully and plainly, substantially and formally,
described to him. And every subject shall have a right to meet
the witnesses against him, face to face, and to be fully heard in
his defence."
"And no subject shall be deprived of his property, immunities, or privileges, but by the judgment of his peers, or the law
of the land."
.Atthe common law, the words crime and offence are used
as synonymous and universal terms, and as comprehending
every act for which- a forfeiture of any legal right might be
worked, or penalty imposed, or punishment inflicted, in any
form of judicial proceeding.t
* 7 Bouvier's Bacon Abr., title Office,"308; Gillman v. Wright, 1 Siderfin, 410; White's Case, 6'Modern, 18; King v. Sheriff of York, 2 Shower,
154; In re the Justices of Antigua, 1 Knapp's Privy Council, 267; In re
King, 8 Q. B. 129; Ex 'parte Hennen, 13 Peters, 259'; Ex parte Swett, 20
Pickering, 1; Ex parte Secombe, 19 Howard, 9; Ex parte Burr, 9 Wheaton,
629; Ex parte Sayre, 7 Cowen, 368; Ex parte Leigh, 1 Mumford, 481; Ex
parte Fisher, 6 Leigh, 619; "Judges' Opinions," 20 Johnson, 492; Anonymous, 4 Johnson, 191; Mill's Case, 1 Michigan, 392; Bradley's Case, 19
Law Reporter, 430; In re Dorsey, 7 Porter, 381; People v. Turner, 1 Ca .fornia, 151 ; Fletcher v,Daingerfield, 20 Id. 430; Commonwealth v.Judges,
1 Sergeant & Rawle, 187; Chapman's Case, 11 Ohio, 430; State of Iowa V.
Start, 7 Iowa, 499; In re Cooper, 22 N. Y. 81 ; Bruce v.Fox, 1 Dana, 450;
Vise v. Hamilton, 19 Illinois, 78; Ex parte Heyfron, 7 Howard's Mississipp:,
127; The People v.Lamborn, 1 Scammon, 123.
t Bouvier's Law Dictionary, title "Crime;" 4 Blackstone's Comm. 6, 6,
and note 3, Wendell's Edition; Commonwealth v.Dennison, 24 Howard, 99;
1 Chitty's Prac. 14; The King v.Shaw, 12 Modern, 113; Bqnaker v.Evans
16 Q. B. 171; James Prescott's Trial, 124.

,Dec. 1868.]

R ANDALL

v.' BRIGHAM.

52)9

.Argument for the attorney.

The words, the "law of the land," mean" due process of
law;" and this implies that there shall be some form of legal
process, sufficient allegations or charge, due notice to the
party proceeded against, the opportunity to answer to and
contest the charge or allegations, and to be heard or tried in
a legal and regular course of judicial proceedings, by an i mpartial judge. And these rights exist in all cases, civil orcriminal, whether by the exercise of a court's ordinary juris'diction, with trial by jury, or by the exercise of the discretionary or summary jurisdiction of a court, without the right
to trial by jury.*
HI. At common Iaw,.whether a proceeding be criminal
or civil, or of a mixed nature, if it has the characterof a judicial .proceeding, some form of legal process, adapted to the.
particular case, must universally be instituted or laid as the
foundation of the proceeding, notice of the same, given, and
the opportunity presented to the party to make his defence;
and to be legally and regularly tried or heard ere any judgment, or order of forfeiture, or deprivation of any freehold
qifice, or other legal right, can lawfully be effected\or inflicted,
for any purpose, by any tribunal whatsoever; and if, in any
essential particular, the proceeding is irregular or defective, the
conviction will not be by "due procesd of law,'! and the judgment will be a nullity.t
* Regina v. Baines 12 Lord Raymond,'1265; Dimes v. Canal Co., 3 House
Lords, 759; Ex parte Ramshay, 18 Q. B. 187; Gapelv. Child, 2 Crompton
& Jervis, 558; Murray's Lessees v. Hoboken Land Co., 18 Howard, 280;,'
Bank of Columbia, v. Okeley, 4 Wfieaton, 244; Greene v. Briggs, I Curtis,,
325; In re Pitman, 1 Id. 186; Commonwealth v. Davis, 11 Pickering, 434;
Commonwealth -. Dean, 21 Id. 334; Commonwealth v. Phillips, 16 Id. 213;
Commonwealthsv. Blood, 4 Gray, 32; Fisher v. McGirr, 1 Id. 37; Taylor v.
Porter, 4 Hill, 146; Wynehamer v. The People, 3 Kernan, 392; In re Dorsoy, 7 Porter, 405; Bank of Columbia'v. Ross, 4 Harris & Mc~enry, 465;
McGinnis v. State, 9 Humphreys, 43; Murry v. Askew, 6 J. J. Marsh. 27;
Wells v. Caldwell, 1 Marshall, 441; Lewis v. Garrett, 5 Howard's Mississippi, 434; Hoke v. Henderson, 4 Devereux, 15; Ervine's Appeal, 16 Pennsylvania State, 263; Norman v. Heist, 5 Watts & Sergeant, 171.
t Rex v. Lediard, Sayer, 6; The Queen v. Saddlers' Co., 10 House Lords,
404; The Qdeen v. Smith, 5 Q. B. 621; In re Monekton, 1 Moore's Privy
Council, 455; Bowerbank v. Bishop of Jamaica, 2 Id. 470- Smith v. Justices

VOL. vII.

84

RANDALL V. BRIGHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

,Argument for the attorney.

IV. "Due process of law," in the case of attorneys-at-law,
is Veld to require, whatever may be the form of process or
mode of procedure, and for whatever cause (invariably liraitedto causes involving moral or professional delinquency),
that there shall be a sufficient charge or allegation in writing, duly filed of record in court, specifying the particular
offence or matter complained of' (usually supported by the
oath of the party preferring the accusation); and unless
waived of record, written notice served on the attorney to
show cause why he should not be removed from his office,
or his na"me stricken from the roll of attorneys, for the of-,
fence or matter complained of; and which notice should
specify the time when, the place where, and the tribunal
before which he is to appear and answer. The attorney is
entitled to a day in court, on which to. make defence, and the
trial isto be conducted like all other trials in summary proceedings at the common law, and the attorney convicted
only if the proofg shall establish or conform to the allegations.*
In numerous cases,t the judgments or orders removing
the attorneys from theii offices, having been mqde without
of Sierra Leone, 3 Id. 361; Gahan v. Lafitte, ,Id. 382; Willis v. Sir G. Gipps,
6 Id. 379; Wildes v. Russell, C. B. 722, Eng. Law Rep. 1866; Capel v. Child,
2 Crompton & Jervis, 558; Rex v. Gaskin, 8 Term, 209; Howard-v. Gosset,
10 Q. B. 381; Bonaker v. Evans, 10 Id. 162; Ex parte Ramshay, 18 Id. 187;
Ex parte Kinning, 4 C. B. 507; Dynes v. Hoover, 20 Howard, 82; Gorham
v.,Luckett, 6 B. Munroe, 146; .Murray v. Oliver, 3 Id. 1; Greene v. Briggs,
1 Curtis, 825; Sevier's Case, Peck, 334; Sheldon v. Newton, 8 Ohio State,
198; McClure v. Tennessee, 1 Yerger, 223; United States v. Duane, Wallace's Circuit Court, 5; Ex parte Heyfron, 7 Howard, Mississippi, 127;
Fletcher v. Daingerfield, 20 California, 427; People v. Turner, 1 Id. 150;
Fisher's Case, 6 Leigh, 619; James Prescott's Trial, 1821; page 164, and Appendix, pages 212 to 219.
* Ex parte Burr, 9 Wheaton, 529; The People v. Turner, I California,
150; Iowa v. Start, 7 Iowa, 499.
t Ex parte Heyfron, 7 Howar&Ls Misi. 127; Fletcher v. Daingerfield, 20
California, 430; People v. Turner, 1 Id. 143, S. C. 190; In re Monckton, I
Moore's Privy Council, 455; Smith v. Justices of Sierra Leone, 3 Id. 361;
In re Downie, 3 Id. 4141 In re Arrindell, 3 Id. 414; Smith v. Justices of
Sierra Leone, 7 Id. 174; Emersoh v. The Justices of the Supreme Court of
Newfoundland, S Id. 167.

Dec. 18,68.]

RANDALL

V. BRIGHAM.

531

Argument for the attorney.

"due process of law," were declared to be illegal and void
(and were also reversed), by courts having a superintendiug
or appellate jurisdiction.
V. An action on the case may be maintained at common
law for the disturbance of a party in the possession and enjoyment of an office, franchise, or other incorporeal riglt.*
It is no objection to the maintenance of a suit simply that
it involves a determination of a party's title to his office.t
VI. In an action against a judge of any court, whether
of record or otherwise, for any act done by him or by his
command, the question in every case to be dqtermined is,
was the act done ajudicial act, done within his.Jurisdiction? If
it was not, he can claim no immunity or exemptiouby virtue
of his 6ffice from liability as a trespasser; "for if he has
acted without jurisdiction, he has ceased to be ajudge."T
'Walker v. Lamb, Croke Car. 258; Ferrer v. Johnson, Croke Eliz. 336;
Lee v. Drake, 2 Salkeld, 468; Jones v. Pugh, Id. 465; Hastings v. Prothonotary of Stepney Court, 1 Siderfin, 410; Strode v. Byrt, 4 Modern, 418;
Crowder v. Oldfleld, 6 Id. 19; Beau v. Bloom, 3 Wilson, 456; Sutherland v.
Murray, cited in 1 Term, 538; Carrington v. Taylor, 11 East, 571; Thompson v. Gibson, 7 Meeson & Welsby, 456; Peter v. Kendal, 6 Barnewall &
Creswell, 793; McMahon v. Lennard, 6 House of Lords Cases, 970; Rogers
v. Dutt, 13. Moore's Privy Council, 209; Townsend v. Blewett, 5 Howard's
Mississippi, 503; Wammack v. Holloway, 2 Alabama, 31; Palmer v. Fiske,
2 Curtis, 14; People v. Turner, 1 California, 190; Bruce v. Fox,'l Dana, 450;
Glen v.'Hodges, 9 Johnson, 67.
t Arris r. Stuhely, 2 Modern, 260; Boyter v. Dodsworth, 6 Term, 681;
Drewv. Fletcher, 1 Barnewall & Creswell, 283; Capel v. Child, 2 Crompton
& Jervis, 568; Lightly v. Clouston, 1 Taunton, 113; Wildes v. Russell, C. B.
Law Rep. for Dec. 1866, p. 728; Hearsey v. Pruyn, 7 Johnson, 179; Avery
v. Tyringham, 3 Massachusetts, 160; Allen v. McKeen, 1 Sumner, 317.
$ 2 Institutes, 427; The Marshalsea Case, 10 Reports, 76 A : Floyd v.
Barker, 12 Id. 23; Hoskins v. Matthews, 1 Levinz, 292; Martin v. Marshall,
Hobart, 63; Bushell's Case, 1 Modern, 119; Hamond v. Howell, 2 Id. 219;
Smith v. Bouchier, 2 Strange, 993; Groenvelt v. Burwell, 1 Ld. Raymond,
454; Miller v. Seare, 2 W. Blackstone, 1141; Perkin v. Proctor, 2 Wilson,.
386; Mostyn t. Fabrigas, 1 Cowper, 161; Sutton v. Johnstone, 1 Term, 493;
Welch v. Nash, 8 East, 402; Burdett.p. Abbott, 14 Id. 1; Ackerley v. Parkinson, 3 M ulo & Selwyn, 411; Mitchell v. Foster, 4 Perry & Daison, 153;
S. 0., 12 Adolphus & Ellis, 472; Garnett v. Ferrand, 9 Dowling & Ryland,
670; Van Sandan v. Turner, 6 Q. B. 773; Gossett v Howard, 10 Id. 411 ;
Houlden v Smith, 14 Id. 841; Kinning v. Buchanai, 8 0. B. 271; Watson
r. Bodell, .4 Meeson & Welsby, 70; 'Fergurson v. Kinnoull, 9 Clark &

RANDALL

v.

BRIG RAM.

[Sup. Q_

Argument for the judge.

Mr. Dawes, who filed a brief of Mr. Allen, A. G. of Massa
o/tusetts:
L Both the admission and removal of attorneys are ju
dicial acts.*
I. It is a general principle, applicable to all magistrates,
even to those of inferior jurisdiction, that they are not liable
to an action for any judicial act done within their jurisdiction. In reference to inferior magistrates, it has been said
that they are only protected while they act within their jurisdiction.
But in reference to judges of courts of general jurisdiction, the rule is not thus limited. Such judges are not liable
to actions for their judicial acts, whether within or without
their'jursdiction.
1. The extent of a judge's jurisdiction is often the very
question which he is called on judicially to determine, To
decide upon this question is as much a judicial decision- as
any other. And the question may be 4 difficult and doubtful one. Yet he is bound to decide, and to decide according
to his judgment. But shall he decide in fear or peril of a
lawsuit?
2. The reason, applicable to inferior magistrates does not
apply. There must be some point in the administration of
the law where unqualified confidence is to be reposed and
acknowledged; some ultimate repository of justice, so far
as individuals are concerned. In England, the king's judges
Finelly, 296; Miller v. Hope, 2 Shaw's Appeal Cases, H. L. 125; Calder v.
Halket, 3 Moore's Privy Council, 28; Taaffe v. Downes, Id. 36; Gahan v.
Lafitte, Id. 382; Hill v. Bigge, Id. 465; Wise v. Withers, 3 Craneh, 331;
Anderson v. Dunn, 6 Wheaton, 204; Kendall v. Stokes, 3 Howard, 89;
Mitchell v. Harmony, 13 Id. 144; Dynes v. Hoover, 20 Id. 65; Yates v.
L£ansing, 5 Johnson, 2C2 ; Bigelow v. Stearns, 19 Id. 39; Cunningham v.
Bucklin, 8 Cowen, 178; Horton v. Auehmoody, 7 Wendell, 200; Bevard v.
Hoffman, 18 Maryland, 479; Lining v. Bentham, 2 Bay, 1; Miller v. Grice,
2 Richardson, 27; Greene v. Mumford, 5 Rhode Island, 472; Scovil v. Geddings, 7 Ohio, 566; Piper v. Pearson, 2 Gray, 120; Clarke v. May, Id. 410;
Kelly a. Bemis, 4 Id. 83; Noxon v. Hill, 2 Allen, 21.5; Revill v. Pettit, 3
Metcalf, Kentucky, 314.
* Ex parte Secombe, 19 Howard. 9, 15; Ex parte Garland, 4 Wallace.
B78, 379

Dec. 1868.]

RhANDALL v. BRIGHAM.

583

Argument for the judge.

occupy this position; the judges of courts, of-,gdneral juris7
diction. To them is delegated the whole judicial power 4f
the sovereign; and they are responsible to the .sovereign
alone.* As long ago as 1608, in Vloyd & 'Barker's Caset ii
was said:
"The reason and cause why a judge, fqr anything done by
him as j:udge, by the authority which the king-hath committed
to him, and as sitting'in the seat of the king (concerning his
justice), shall not be drawn in 4uestion before any other judge,
for any surmise of corruption,except before the king himself,.
,is for this: the king himself is d jure to deliver justice.tc all
his subjects; and for this, that he himself cannot do it to all
persons, he delegates his-power to his judges, -who have the
custody and guard'of the king's oath. And forasmuch as this
concerns the honor 'nd conscience of the king, there is great
°
reason that the king himself shall take accoudnt of it, and n6

other."
This general doctrine ia especially applicable in 'America,"

wberq, by our National and State donstitutions,judicial power
is vested exclusively in the courts. The duties of a judge
are public dutie5 imposed by lair. He must perform them.
If he acts corruptly or incompetently, he may be impeached.
And in Massachusetts, he may be removed by the governor,
with consent of the council-upoh the address of both houses
of the legislature.
It is inconsistent with the nature and true theory of the

judicial functions, that an'action should'lie against a superior judge, for any judicial act, even though in excess of his
jurisdiction.
3. The very foundation pf this-principle is to protect judged
when they have erred. If they have decided rightly, they need,
no protection, for the correctness.of their decision will vindicate them.. To secure the maximum of impartiality, a judge
must be protected from personal reoponsibility for his errors,
if he happens to make any. It woula be absurd to say that
Taaffe'v. Downes, in-note; 8 Moore's Privy Council, '41.
'
t12 Re rts, 23.

1.LANDALL

v.

[Sup.ACM.
[Sup. Ct,

Argument for the judge.

he should receive the protection of the law only in those
cases where no protection is required.*
Aceordingly, for more than five hundred years, by a unif',;un series of decisions, judges have been held exempt from
personal responsibility for their judicial words and acts.t
Consider the results which would follow from a contrary
doctrine. Suppose that the defendant consulted several of
his associates, who all concurred with him, or suppose that
two or more of the justices acted toggther upon this matter,
and that they nevertheless came to a wrong decision, would
all be liable in damages? If so, should they be sued jointly
or severally? In case one dissented, should he be held liable
with the rest, or should he, by reason of his dissent, be exonerated, and the rest held liable? This would be to offer
a bounty on dissent. Suppose the case was carried by appeal, or otherwise, before another tribunal, which ratifi'ld
the doings of the first, and yet this court should think both
tribunals mistaken, should the justices of the higher tribunal
be also liable in danmages? And if so, should they be sued
separately, or jointly with the justices of the Superior Court?
Are the justices of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, who held that the doings of defendant, now sued,
were, in all respects, conformable to the constitution and
See Taafe v. Downes, supra, 533.
t (A.D. 1354.) Book of Assizes, 27 Edw. III, pl. 18; (A.D. 1431.) 1
,
Rolle's Abridgment, 92; 9 Hen. Vl 60, B.; (A.D. 1561.) Gwynne v.
Poole, Lutwyche, 937, arguendo; (A.D. 1589.) Green v. Hundred of Buccles
Church, 1 Leonard, 323, arguendo; (A.D. 1608.) Floyd & Barker's Case, 12
Reports, 23; (A.D. 1616.) Bagg's-Case, 11 Id. 93 b; (A.D. 1621.) Aire v.
Sedgwicke, 2 Rolle, 199; (A.D.. 1638.) Metcalfe v. Hodgson, Hutton, 120;
Bushell's Case, 1 Modern, 119; Hamond v. Howell, Id. 184; S. C. 2 Mod.
218; Groenvelt v. Burwell, 1 Ld. Raymond, 454; S. C. I Salkeld, -00;
Anon. 1 Salkeld, 201; Mostyn v.Fabrigas, 1 Cowper, 172; Duke of Newcastle v. Clark, 3 Taunton, 632; Garnett v. lexrand, 6 Barnewall & Creswell, 611; Miller v. Hope, 2 Shaw's Appeal Cases, 125; Kemp v. Neville, 7
JoLrist (N. S.), 913; Scott v. Stansfield, Law Reports, 3 Exchequer, 220;
Brodie v. Rutledge, 2 Bay, 69; Phelps v. Sill, 1 Day, 31.5; Yates v. Lansing,
5 Johnson, 283; S. (. 9 Id. 395; Cunningham v.Bucklin, 8 Cowen, 178:
Weaver v. Devendorf, 3 Denio, 117; Burnham v. Stevens, 33 New Hamp
shire, 247; Kelley v. Dresser, 11.Allen, 31.1

Djec. 1868.j

RANDALL

v.

BRIGHAU.

Opifiion of the court.

laws, also liable in damages? If so, before wliat tribunal
should they be sued? If small damages were claimed, woula
ajustice of the peace, or a judge of inferior jurisdiction; have
authority to entertain the case; and pass upon the'question
Whether his superior judges acted and decided rightly or
wrongly? It cannot be that'such is the law! "There is no
court," it was said in Le Caux v, Eden,* "equal to the trial
of a superior judge." Were the law otherwise (to use thewords of Lord Stairt), "no man but a beggar,or a fool would
be a judge."
This questioni does not depend uponi reasoning alone. ,The,
case of Ackerley v. _Parkin'son is in point, and other cages are
to the same eflect.§
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the.
opinion of the court, as follows:.
The. Superior Court df Massachusetts is a court of general
jurisdiction, and is empowered By statute to admit attorneys
and counsellors to practise in the courts of the. Stateiupou
evidence of their possessing good moral character, and of
having devoted a prescribed number of years to the study
of the law, in the office of some attorney in the State, and to
remove them "for any deceit, malpiactice, or other gross
misconduct."
'Both the admission and the removal'of attorneys are judicial acts. -It has been so decided in. repeated instances. It
was declared ih .Ex parte Secombe,f and was affirmed in Ex
.parte Garland.
'Now, it is a general principle applicable to all judicial
'officers, that they are not liable to a civil action for any
judicial act done within their jurisdiction. In reference
to judges of limited and inferior authority, it has been held
t 2 Shaw's Appeal Cases, 134.
: 3 Maule & Selwyn, 411.
The Marshalsea, 10 Reports, 68 h; Gwynne v. Poole, Lutwyche, 937;
*Lowtber y. Earl of Radnor, 8 East, 113; Trnscott v. Caruenter, Ld. Raymond, 229; Yates v. Lansing, 5 Johnson,, 289.
Ii19 Howard, 9.
If 4 WaI. 378
* Douglas, 594.

RANDALL V. BRIGHAM.

"[Sup. (3t.

Opinion of the court.

that they are protected only when they act within their jurisdiction. If this be the case with respect to them, no such
limitation exists with respect td judges of superior or general
authority. They are not liable to civil adtions for their judicial acts, even when such acts are in excess of their jurisdiction, unless perhaps where the acts, in excess of jurisdiction,
are done maliciously or corruptly. This doctrine is as old
as the law, and its maintenance is essential to the impartial
administration of justice. Any other doctrine would necessarily lead to the degradation of the judicial authority and
the destruction of its usefulness. Unless judges, in adininistering justice, are uninfluenced by considerations personal
to themselves, they can afford little protection to the citizen
in his person or property. And uninfluenced by such considerations they cannot be, if, whenever they err in judgment
as to their jurisdiction, upon the nature and extent of which
they are constantly required to pass, they may be subjected
to prosecution at the instance of every party imagining himself aggrieved, and be called upon in a civil action in another
tribunal, and perhaps before an inferior judge, to vindicate
their acts.
This exemption from civil action is for the sake of the
pu'blic, and not merely for the protection of the judge. And
it has been maintained by a uniform course of decisions in
England for centuries, and in this country ever since its
settlement.
In England the superior judges are the delegates of the
king. Through them he administers justice, and to him
alone are they accountable for the performance of their
trust. And it was said as long ago as 1608, as reported by
Lord Coke in Floyd and Barker's case,* that insomuch as
the judges of the realm have the administration of justice,
under the kirg, to all his subjects, they ought not to be called
in question for any judicial proceedings by them, except
before the king himself, "for this would tend to the scandal
and subversion-of all justice; and those who are most sincere
wouid not be free from continual calumniations.)
*"12 Cojke, 25.

Dec. 1868.]

RANDALL V. *BRIGHAM.
Opinion of the court.

In the United States, judicial power is vested exclusiely
in the courts. The judges administer juptice therein for the
people, and are responsible to the people alone for the manner in which they perform their duties. If faithless, if corrupt, if dishonest, if paitial, if oppressive or arbitrary, they
may be called to account by impeachment, and 'removed
from office. In some States, and Massachusetts is one of
them, they may be removed "uponthe address of both houses
of the legislature. But responsible they are. not to private
parties in civil actions for their judicial acts,"however injurious may be those acts, and' however much .they may deserve condemnation, unless perhaps where the acts are .palpably in excess of the jurisdiction ofthe judges, and are done
maliciously or corruptly.
In Taaffe v. Downes,* this subject was most elaborately.and
learnedly considered, and all the English authorities commuented upon, by the 'Court of Common Pleas of Ireland,
in 1813. The defendant was chief justice of the King's
Bench in Ireland, and had issued a warrant at chaml~ers for
the arrest of the plaintiff for a breach of the peace: The
plaintiff was accordingly arrested and held to bail, and he
afterwards brought an action against the chief justice for
assault and.false imprisonment. It was urged, in argument,
that it was not lawful or defensible for a judge, without any'
-offence committed, or charge made upon oath of criine,.or
suspicion of crime committed, to imprison a subject. Bdt
it was held'that the action' would not lie against the judge
for.acts judicially done by him. "Liability," said Mr. Justice Mayfie, one of the justices of the court," to every man's
action, for every judicial act'a judge is called upon to do, is"
the degradation of the judge, and cannot be the object of
any true patriot or honest subject. It is to.render the judges
slaves in'every court that holds -plea, to every sheriff, juror,
attorney, and plaintiff. If you once breakdown the barrier
of their dignity, and subject them to an action, you let in
,upon the judicial authority a wide, wasting, and harassing.
* Given in a note in 8 Moore's Privy.Council,. 41.

RANDALL V. BRIGHAM.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

petsecution, and establish its weakness in a degrading responsibility." And the justice observed that no action of
the kind was ever sustained, and save one in London and
one in Ireland, none was ever attempted. The one mentioned as arising in Ireland was not against any judges, but
against the governor of the country, and may perhaps be
subject to other considerations. In the case in London,* the
action was against the recorder, who, as one of the judges
of oyer and terminer, bad fined and imprisoned a petit jury
for rendering a verdict against the direction of the court and
the evidence. This act was declared illegal, by the Court
of Common Pleas, in discussing the case on habeas corpits.1
Upon that decision the action Was brought by one of the
jurors, but the court held that the action would not lie,
and were of opinion "that the bringing of the action was a
greater offence than the fining of the plaintiff, and committing of him for non-payment; and that it was a bold attempt,
both against the government and justice in general."
Mr. Justice Fox, in the case of Taaffe v. Downes, conceded
that the act of the chief justice- wa8t illegal, but held that he
was not responsible in the action, and observed that, without
the existence of the principle, that a judge, administering
justice,,shall not be liable for acts judicially done, by action
or prosecution, it was utterly impossible that there should
be such a dispensation of justice as would have the effect of
protecting the lives or property of the subject. "There is
something," he said, "so monstrous in-the contrary doctrine,
that it would poison the very source of justice, and introduce
a system of servility, utterly inconsistent with the constitutional independence of the judges, an independence which it
has been the work of ages to.establish, and would be utterly
inconsistent with the preservation of the rights and liberties
of the subject."
The same subject was considered very elaborately in the
ease of Yates v. Lansing,T in the Supreme Court and in the
Hamond v. Howell, 1 Modern, 184; 2 Id. 218.
- Bushell's Case, Vaughav, 135.
S5Johnson, 283; 9 Id. 396.

.Dec. 1868.J

-RANDALL V.BRIG

,ILA.

539

Opinion of the coirt.

Court'of Errors of .New York. Lansing was chancello'r of
the State, dnd had. committed Yates, one of the officers in'
chancery, for malpractice and contempt. A judge of the
Supreme 'Court dischargdd him, and thereupon the chancellor or ered him to bie recommitted. ' He then" brought an
action to recover a statute penalty for the recommittent. It
was held that the action would not lie, Mr. Chief Justice Kent
observing that the chancellor may have erred in'judgment
iii calling an act a, contempt. which did not amount' to one,
and in regarding a discharge* as null when it .was binding,
and Ahat the Supreme Court may have er-ed in the' qare
way, but 'till it was 'but an error of judgment, foIr which
neither tl~e chancellor nor the judges were or could be responsible in a civil action, and that such responsibil.ity would"
be an anomaly, in jurisprudence. "Whenever," said the
.learned chief justic ,'",we subject the established c6urts of
the land to"the degradatjon of private prosecution, We sub'due their independence and destroy their'authority. 'Instead
of being venerable before the.public theybecome contempt-"
ible."
The Superior Court of Mussachmsetts, as we havq,al:eady
stated, is a court 'of general juisdiction, and is clothed by
statute with authority to admit and to remoie attorneys-4tlaw. The' order removing, the plainiff ,was made by the
court, and not by the judge in chambers. The 'inquiry into
his onduct was befoife the court, and before it he was notifid to appear. His 61aim is 'that the court never, acquired
jurisdiction to act/in his case, bechiise there was not a formal
accusation made against him, or statement of g'ounds of
complaint, and formal citation issued to him to answer them.
If this were so, his case would not be advanced.. Under the,
authQrities cited he could not seek redress in that event 'by
an action' against the judge of the court, there being no pretence or shadow 6f ground that lie acted maliciously or c6r-ruptly. But the claim of the plaintiff is not correct. The
information imparted by the letter was sufficient to put in'.
motion the authority of the court, and the notice to the
plaintiff was sufficient to bring him before it to explain 'the

,540

RANDALL V. BRIGHAM.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

transaction to which the letter referred. The informality of
the notice, or of the complaint by the letter, did not touch
the question of jurisdiction. The plaintiff understood from
them the nature of the charge against him; and it is not
pretended that the investigation which followed was not conducted with entire fairness. He was afforded ample opportunity to explain the transaction and vindicate his conduct.
He introduced testimony upon the matter, and was sworn
himself.
It is not necessary that proceedings against' attorneys for
malpractice, or any unprofessional conduct, should be founded upon formal allegations against them. Such proceedings
are often instituted upon information developed in the piogress of a cause; or from what the court learns of the conduct of the attorney from its own observation. Sometimes
they are moved by third parties upon affidavit; and sometimes they are taken by the court upon its own motion. All
that is requisite to their validity is that, when not taken for
matters occurring in open court, in the presence of 'the
judges, notice should be given to the attorney of the charges
nade and opportunity afforded him for explanation and de'fence. The manner in which the proceeding shall be conducted, so that it be without oppression or unfairness, is a
matter of judicial regulation.
The authority of the court over its attorneys and counsellors is of the highest importance. They constitute a profession essential to society. Thteir aid is required not merely
to represent suitors before the courts, but in the more difficult transactions of private life. The highest interests are
placed in their hands, and confided to their management.
The confidence which they receive and the responsibilities
wvhich they are obliged to assume demand not only ability
of a high order, but the strictest integrity.. The authority
which the courts hold over them, and the qualifications re
quired for their admission, are intended to secure those
qualities.
The position that the plaintiff has been illegally deprived
of rights which he held under the constitution of Massachu-

Dec. 1868;]

PALMER V. DONNER.
Statement of the case.

setts, which declares that" no subject shall be held to answer
for any crime or offence, until ihe same is fully and plainly,
substantially and formally, described to him;" nor be "de spoiled or deprived of his property, immunities or privileges, put out of the protection of the law, exiled or deprived
of his life, liberty or estate, but by the judgment of his peers,
or the law of the land,"* is answered by the costruction
which the Supreme Court of that State has given to these
provisions. It has held that the proceeding taken for the
removal of the plaintiff could not in any just and proper
sense be deemed a criminal procedure; in which a party h".
a right to a full, formal, and substantial description of the
offence charged; and that it was not essential to the'validity
of the order of removal that it should be founded 'on legal
process according to the signification of the words,"per legem
as used in Magna Charta, or in the Declaration of
terrcm"
Rights.t This construction. of the highest court of the State,not called in question byany conflicting decision of that
court, is conclusive upon us.1
We find no error in the ruling of the Circuit Court, and
its judgment must therefore be
AFFIRMED.

PALMER V. DONNER.
A district judge has no authority to sign a citation upon a writ ot error to a
State court. 'When the citation has been thus signed, the writ of error
will be dismissed on motion.

THis was a motion,- made by Mr. 1. f. Bradley, to dismiss
a writ of error directed to the Supreme Court of the State of
California, on the ground that the citation bad 6een signed
by a district judge, which the record showed was the fact.
* Declaration of Rights, Art. 12.

t Randall, Petit' ner for MfaAdamus, 11 Allen, 473.
Provident Institution v. Massachusbtts, 6 Wallace, 630.

