Dec.1868.]

GAINES V.

THoMPsoN.

Argument against cancellation.

GAINES V.

THOMPSON.

The act of the Secretary of the Interior and Commissioner of the Land Office, in cancelling an entry for land, is not a ministerial duty, but is a
matter resting in the judgment and discretion of these officers as repre.
senting the Executive Department. Accordingly, this court will not
interfere by injunction more than by mandamus to control it.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Columbia.
The Secretary of the Interior having directed the Commissioner of the Land Office to cancel an entry under which
Gaines and others claimed an equitable right to certain lands
i.,n Arkansas, these last brought their suit in the Circuit
Court of the District of Columbia, prayihg that the secretary and commissioner should be enjoined from making such
cancellation. The defendants entered their appearance, and
Wilson, the commissioner) filed a plea. The substance of
this plea was that the matters set up in the bill were within
the exclusive control of the execdtive department. of the
government, the secretary and commissioner representing
the President, and that the court had no jurisdiction or authority to interfere with the exercise of this power by injuncti~u. In point of fact the validity of the entry in question
depended upon the construction of certain acts of Congress,
upon the meaning of which different secretaries of the interior had been so far divided that it was thought best to
take the opinion bf the Attorney-General upon their interpretation.
The court below, sustaining the plea, dismissed the bill;
and the question on this appeal was the correctness of'sucb
action.

Mr. J. L. Brent, for the appellant, went largely into the
merits of the respective claimants, to show that the propo.3ed
cancellation was wrong, and ought to be enjoined. He

GAINES V. THOMPSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

relied upon Lyle v. Arkansas,* Cunningham v. Ashley,t .Barnard's Heirs v. Ashley's .eirs,t Minnesota v. Bachelder,ยง and
several other cases, in order to show that this court did constantly go into such merits and decide according to them,
irrespective of decisions by the executive officers connected
with the issue of patents.
Mr. Ashton, Assistant Attorney- General,contra, argued, that
there we're no functions within the range of the executive
authority less ministerial in their character than those which
devolved upon the officers of the land depaitment in the administration of matters relating to the disposal of the public
domain; that these officers had not merely the right, but were
obliged to the duty of judgment and decision in them, and
were directly responsible in determining the questions which
arose before them only to the authority, within their own
department of the public service, upon whom a supervisory
jurisdiction had been conferred by statute.
The case was therefore within the principle which forbade
judicial interference with the exercise of executive discretion; a principle lately so ably explained in this court in the
case of Mississippi v. Johnson,I that it was almost unnecessary to refer to previous adjudications. I
All the -ases, he contended, cited by the appellants, in
which the courts had undertaken to review ultimately theaction of the land office, were cases between private parties,
litigated after th.e legal title had passed, by patent or otherwise, out of the government. That right was undisputed.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The extent of the jurisdiction which may lawfully be as
serted by the Federal courts over the officers of the execiitive departments of the governnment, has been mooted in
1 18 Id. 43.
j 14 Id. 382.
114 Wallace, 499.
1 Wallace, 115.
Kendall v. United States, 12 Peters, 609; Decatur v. Paulding, 14 Ib.
615; Kendall v. 6takes, 3 Howard, 98; Brashear v. Mason, 6 Ib. 101; Ree* 9 Howard, 329; 22 Id. 202.

side v. Walker, 11 lb. 289.

Dec. 1868.]

GAINES V.

THOMPSON.

Opinion of the court.

this court from the case of Marbury v. Madison* down to the
present time; and while the principles which should govern
the action of the courts in that regard have been settled
long since, the frequent application of late to this court,
and to other Federal courts, for the exercise of powers not
belonging to them, shows that the questibn is one not
g~nerally understood.
In the case already referred to, of Marbury v. fadison, the
Chief Justice commented at some length upon the power
of the courts over the action of the executi- e officers of the
government, in the course of which he arrived at the conclusion that it is a question which must always depend
upon the nature of the act. He then argues, that by the
Constitution the President is invested with certain political
powers, in the exercise of which he is to use his own discretion, and for which he is accountable only to his country
and his conscience, and that he has officers to aid him in the
,exercise of these powers, who are directly accountable to
him. The acts of such ail officer, he says, can never, as an
officer, be examinable in a court of justice. He holds, however, that where an officer is required by law to perform an
act, not of this political or executive character, which affects
the private rights of individuals, he is to that extent amenable to the courts. The duty which it was held in that case
could be enforced in the proper court by mandamus, was
the delivery of a commission already signed by the President. The point, as there presented, was hew and embarrassing, and it is no reflection on the distinguished jurist
who delivered the opinion to say, that the rule which governs
the court in its action, in this class of cases, has since been
laid down with more precision, without conflicting with the
principles there stated.
In the case of Mclntire v. Woodt an application was made
to the Circuit Court for the District of Ohio for a mandamus
to the register of the land office, to compel him to issue
certificates of purchase to plaintiff for lands to which he
* 1 Cranch 137.

t 7 Id. 504.

GAINES V. THoMPsoN.

[Sup. Gt.

Opinion of the court.

supposed himself entitled by law. This court was of opinion
that no power had been vested by Congress in the circuit
courts to issue the writ in such cases. The reasoning of the
court is not extended, but the case bears a strong analogy
to the one under consideration.
But in Kendall v. United States,* the majority of the court
held that the courts of the District of Columbia had a
larger power than the circuit courts, and could issue writs
of mandamus to Federal officers in proper cases. As this is
the first case in which the writ was actually ordered, it is
worth while to examine the ground on which it was placed.
"The act required to be done by the Postmaster-General,"
says the court, "is simply to credit the relators with the full
amount of the award of the solieitor. This is a precise,
definite act, purely ministerial, and about which the Postmaster-General had no discretion whatever. This was not
an official act in any other sense than being a transaction in
the department where the books and accounts were kept,
and was an official act in the same sense that an entry in
the minutes of a court, pursuant to an order of the court, is
an official act. There is no room for the exercise of any
discretion, official or otherwise."
In this language there is no ambiguity, and in it we find
a clear enunciation of the rule which separates the class of
cases in which the court will interfere from those in which
it will not. In the subsequent case of Decatur v. Paulding,t
where the writ was refused, the Chief Justice, who had dissented in the former case, accepts both the doctrine of the
right to issue the writ by the court of the district, and of the
cases in which it may be issued, as.settled by the case of
Kendall v. United States. "The first question, therefore, to
be cousidered,"he says, "is whether the duty imposed upon
the Secretary of the Navy by the resolution in favor of Mrs.
Decatur was a mere ministerial act?" The case of Mrs.
Decatur arose under an act of Congress, and also a joint
resolution of that body of the same date, both providing
*12 Peters, 524.

f 14 Id. 497.

"Dec. 1868.]

GAINES V. THOMPSON.
Opinion of the court.

compensation for the services of her deceased husband; but
the measure'of this compensation (which was to be paid to
her by the Secretary of the Navy) was in the act different
from what it was in the resolution. The secretary held that
but one of these was intended by Congress, and gave her
the election. She brought suit to compel him to give her
both. It is clear she had no other legal remedy. The
United States could not be sued. The secretary could not
be sued in any other form of action than mandamus. But
on the ground that the action. of the secretary involved the
exercise of judgment and discretion, the order of the Circuit
Court refusing the writ was sustained.
This case is cited and relied on in the case of The Commissioner of Patents v. Whiteley,* and some of the observations
of Chief Justice Taney, in delivering the opinion in the
former, are so pertinent to the case before us, and state so
well the relations of the judicial branch of the government
to the officers engaged in the executive branch, that fhey
may well be reproduced here.
Speaking of the functions of these officers, he says: "In
general, such duties, whether imposed by act of Congress.
or by resolution, are not mere ministerial duties. The head
of an executive department of the government, in the administration of the various and important concerns of his
office, is continually required to exercise judgment and discretion. He must exercise his judgment in expounding the
laws and resolutions of Congress under which he is required
to act." "IfA" he says, "a suit should come before this
court, which involved the construction of any of those laws,
the court certainly would not be bound to adopt the construction given bythe head of the department. And if they
supposed his decision to be wrong, they would, of course,
so pronounce their judgment. But this judgment, upon the
construction of the law, must be given in a case in which
they have jurisdiction, and in which it is their duty to interpret the acts of Congress, in order to 'ascertain the rights
* 4 Wallace, 522.

GAINES V.

THoMpsoN.[

(Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of the parties before them. The court could not entertain
an appeal from the decision of one of the secretaries, nor
revise his judgment in any case where the law authorized
him to exercise judgment or discretion. Nor can it by mandamus act directly upon the officer, and guide and control
his judgment or discretion in the matters committed to his
care, in the ordinary exercise of his official duties.

.

. The

interference of the courts with the performance of the or
dinary duties of the executive departments would be productive of nothing but mischief, and we are quite satisfied
that such a power was never intended to be given to them."
To the same effect are also the cases, United States v. Seaman;* Same v. Guthrie;t Same v. Commissioner of Land
Office.4
Itmay, however, be suggested, that the relief sought in
all those cases was through the writ of mandamus, and that
the decisions are based upon the special principles applicable to the use of that writ. This is only true so far as thee
principles assert the general doctrine, that an officer to whom
public duties are confided by law, is not subject to the control of the courts in the exercise of the judgment and discretion which the law reposes in him as a part of his official
functions. Certain powers and duties are confided to those
officers, and to them alone, and however the courts may, in
ascertaining the rights of parties in suits properly before
them, pass upon the legality of their acts, after the matter
has once passed beyond their control, there exists no power
in the courts, by any of its processes, to act upon the officer
so as to interiere with the exercise of that judgment while
the matter is properly before him for action. The reason
for this is, that the law reposes this discretion in him for
that occasion, and not in the courts. The doctrine, therefore, is as applicable to the writ of injunction as it is to the
writ of mandamus.
In the one case the officer is required to abandon his right
to exercise his personal judgment, and to substitute that of
*17

Howard, 225.

t Id. 284.

$: 5 Wallace, 563.

I Dec. 1868.]

GAINES

v. THOMPSON.

Opinion of the court.

the court, by performing the act as it commands.

In the

other he is forbidden to do the act which his judgment and
discretion tell him should be done. There can be no diflHrence in the principle which forbids interference with the
duties of these officers, whether it be by writ of mandamus
or injunction.
Accordingly, in the caserof The State of Mississippi v. Johnson,* which was an application to this court for the writ of
injunction, in the exercise of its original jurisdiction, the
court says that it is unable to perceive that the fact that the
relief asked is by injunction takes the case out of the genieral principles which forbid judicial interference with the
exercise of executive discretion.
In the same case the Chief Justice gives is this clear definition of a ministerial duty in the relation i n which we have
been considering it: "A ministerial duty, the performance
of which may in proper cases be required of the head of a
department by~judicial process, is one in respect to which
nothing is left to discretion. It is a simple, definite duty,
arising under circumstances admitted or -proved to exist and
imposed by. law."
The action of the officers of the land department, with
which we are asked to interfere in this case, is clearly not
of this character. The validity of plaintiffs' entry, which is
involved in their decision, is a question which requires the
careful consideration and constructiou of more than one act
of Congress. It has been for a long time before the department, and has received the attention of successive secretaries
of the interior, and has been found so difficult as to justify
those officers in requiring the opinion of the Attorney-General. It is far from being a ministerial act under any definition given by this court.
The numerous cases referred to by counsel, in which this
court-after the title had passed from the United States,
and the matter had. ceased to be under the control of the.
executive department-has sustained the courts of justice in
4 Wallace, 475.
VOL. VU.

23

354

THE DIANA,

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

decreeing the equitable title to belong to the person agaiust
whom the department had decided, are not'in conflict with
these 'views, but furnish an additional reason for refusing
to interfere with such cases while they remain under such
control.
DECREE AFFIRMFED.

THE

DIANA.

To justify a vessel of a neutral in attempting to 6nter a blockaded port, she
must be in such distress as to render her entry a matter of absolute ond
uncontrollable necessiiy.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court for the Southern District of Florida.
The schooner Diana was captured, on the 26th of November, 1862, by vessels of war of the United States, off Pass'
Cavallo, on the coast of Texas, then in rebellion against the
United States, and, for some time previously, under blockade
along the whole line of its coast, and taken to Key West for
adjudication.
A libel in prize was filed against both vessel and cargo,
in the District Court for the Southern District of Florida,
in 'December, 1862, to which the master of the vessel interposed a claim in behalf of John Cabada, of Campeachy,
Mexico, the alleged owner of the schooner, and in behalf
of Miguel Canno, a Spanish subject residing at Campeachy,
the alleged owner of the cargo. Subsequently a claim was
filed by Idela Cabada, alleging that he was oWner of the
vessel, and that he had let her to one Miguel Canno on
freightfor a voyage from Campeachy to Matamoras, Mexico,

in good faith.

The ship's papers showed that the vessel was on a voyage
trom Campeaehy to Matamoras, and was consigned to one
Sai Roman, at the port last named.
11th November, 1862.

She set sail on the

