THE FLOYD ACCEPTANCES.

[Sup. Ch.

Syllabus.

her starboard quarter. The effect of the blow was that she
sunk, and, with her cargo, became a total loss.
Remaining proposition of the appellant is, that the barque
is also in fault, because her helm, just before the collision
occurred, was put to starboard; but it is clear that the error,
if it was one in that emergency, was produced by the inpending peril, which is justly chargeable to those having
the control and management of the other vessel. Mistakes
committed in such moments of peril and excitement, when
produced by the mismanagement of those in charge of the
other vessel, are not of a character to relieve the vessel
causing the collision from the payment of full damages to
the injured vessel.
Appeal was taken to this court at the same time from the
decree of the court below, in the case of The P/ehnix insurance (onmpany v. James 1R. Slanson, claimant, &c., aud the two
cases were argued here together, as the parties conceded that
they depend upon the same facts. All the testimony was
taken in the first case, and the stipulation of the parties is,
that it should be regarded as also taken in the other, and
that both cases should be heard at the same time. Libellants in this case were insurers of the cargo, and having
paid the loss to the owner, they claimed that they were
subrogated to his rights and interests, and that, by reason
thereof, they had a lien upon the barque for the amount
which they paid to the owner of the cargo. Evidently the
appeal is disposed of by the opinion in the other case.
DECREES AFFIRMED.

THE FLOYD ACCEPTANCES.
1. The government of the United States has a right to use bills of exchange
in conducting its fiscal operations, as it has the right to use any other
appropriate means of accomplishing its legitimate purposes.
2. When the government becomes a party to such a bill, it is bound by the
samb rules in determining its rights and its liabilities as individuals are.

Dec. 1868.]

TmE FLOYD

ACCEPTANCES.

.667

Statement of the case.
3. As the United States can only become a party-to a bill of exchangi by
the action of an officer' or other authorized agent of the government,
the authority of the officer or agent may be inquired into as in the case,
of the agent of an individual.
4. This authority, in case of bills of exchange, depends upon the same prin.
ciples that determine such authority in other contracts, and is not aided
by the doctrine, that, when once lawfully made, negotiable paper'ha'
a more liberal protection than other contracts in.the hands of innocent
holders.
6. Under our system of government, the powers and duties of all its officeri
are limited and defined by laws, and generally by acts of Congress.
6. As there is no express authority to be found for any officer to draw or
accept bills of exchange, such 'uthority gan only exist when .theie are
the appropriate means of carrying into effect some other power belonging to such officer under his prescribed duts.
7. It does not follow that because an officer may lawfully issue bills of exchange for some purposes, he can in that mode bind the government in.
other cases where he has no such authority.
8. As under .egisting laws there can be no la~vful ocbasion for an officei to
accept drafts on behalf of the government, such icceptances'cannot bind
it, though there may be occasions for drawing or paying drafts which
I I
may bind the government.
9. The acceptances known as the "Floyd acceptances "-(certain acceptances on long time, made by the Hon. J. B. Floyd, Secretary of War,
of drafts drawn on him by army contractors, before the services contracted for were received, or the supplies to be furnished were delivered)
-were mere accommodation loans of the credit of the United States,
without authority, and therefore void.
10. If they had been given and received as payment (which they were not)
they were payments. in advance of the services rendered and supplies
'furnished, and were void, because forbiddeni by the act of January 31st,
1823 (8 Stat. at Large, 723).

from the Court of Claims.
The facts, as found by that court, were thus:
Russell, Majors & Waddell had contract. for supplies and
transportation, to be furnished to the army in Utah. By
these contracts, they were to be paid either by the quartermaster at St. Louis, or by his drafts on the assistant treasurer. of the United States in New York. In all the contracts, except one, these payments were to be made 'on the
final delivery of the supplies in Utah; but in one contract
there was an agreement that partial -payments should be
APPEALS

made when th6 trains were started.

In all pases, such pay-

THE FLOYD ACCEPTANCES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ments were to be made upon certificates of the proper quartermaster.
The performance of these contracts required a very large
outlay of money, and Russell & Co. finding it difficult to
advance this and wait for its return until they were entitled to receive payment under their contracts, made an.
arrangement with the Secretary of War, under which they
should draw time-drafts on him, payable to their own order,
at the Bank of the Republic in New York, which should be
accepted by the secretary. On these drafts they were then
to raise the money necessary to enable them to perform their
contracts, and as the money for the transportation and supplies became due, they were to receive it,and take up the
acceptances of the secretary before or at maturity. Under
this arrangement the secretary accepted drafts to the amount
of $65,000,000, most of which were taken up by Russell,
Majors & Waddell, as agreed; but over a million of dollars
in amount remain unpaid.
The drafts, with unimportant verbal differences and differences of date, were in this form:
$5000.

WASHINGTON, November 28, 1859.

Ten months after date, for value received, pay to our own
order,, at the Bank of the iRepublic, New York City, five thousand dollars, and charge to account of our contract for supplies
fbr the army in Utah.
RUSSELl, MAJORS & WADDELL.
Hon J. B. FLOYD, Secretary of War.

[Indorsement.]
"RUSSELL, MAJORS & WADDELL."
[Acceptance.]
WAR DEPARTMENT,

"A cepted:

November 28, 1859.
JOHN B. FLOYD,
Secretary of War."

The drafts passed into the hands of different holders;
dnong them T. W. Pierce- the Dover Five Cent Saving
Bank, E. D. Morgan, and the Boatmen's Saving Institution;
and Mr. Floyd having retired from the War Department,

Dec. 1868.]

THE FLOYD ACCEPTANCES.
Statement of the case.

and the department refusing to pay the acceptances, Pierce,
by his separate bill; and the other parties iin a proceeding
treated by the Court of Claims as one in substance, brought

suit in that court.

The petition of Pierce averred -

"That the said Floyd, as Secretary of War, and in behalf of
the United States, and as the principal officer of an executiv6
department, had authority to accept the drafts, and that, in
accepting them, he acted in his official capacity, and in behalf
of the -United States. And that he, in behalf of the United
States, as such Secretary of War, was authorized to accept
drafts of such and the like tenor and effect as the drafts aforesaid; and that the said Pierce, relying upon the apparent, as
well as upon the actual authority of the said Secretary of War
to make such acceptances, and upon the fact of his acceptance
of the bills,- became the iholder and owner of them, in a regular
cotjrse of business, before they severally matured and for valuable consideration."
Similar averments were made in the petitions of the other
three parties. And by an amended petition they set forth
the further facts:
That when the bills were accepted, and when they became due, the government owed the contractors a larger
sum than the amount of them.
That at that time the army in Utah was in imminent
danger from cold and starvation; that it was the duty of
Floyd, as Secretary of War, to save it; and that to so save it
he authorized the drawing of the bills and accepted them.
That as secretary he had authority by law to make ad-

vances to the contractors after their trains were ready to
start; and that their trains being ready to start, he did what
was done.

That he had authority by law to ascertain and determine
the debt of the -United States to the contractors, and did so
determine; that there was due them the sums specified in
the bills; and that the bills so drawn and accepted were
conclusive evidence of the debt as against the government.
These same additional matters we.re considered by the

THE FLOiD

ACCEPTANCES.

[Sup. Ci.

Statement of the base

court below in the case of Pierce. The general issue was
pleaded in all the suits.
To present the case more- completely, it must be stated
that by statute of 81st January, 1823,* it is enacted:
"That from and after the passage of this act no advance of
public money shall be made in any case whatever; but in all cases
of contracts for the performance of any service, or the delivery
of articles of any descriptioii, for the use of the United States.
payment 'shall not exceed the value of the service rendered, or
of' the articles delivered previously to such payment."
The Court of Claims-upon a full history of the fhcts, as
presented by. evidence introduced by the government, and
whose introduction was 6pposed by the petitioner, Pierce,
-the admission being one of the errors alleged by Pierce
himself-dismissed all the cases, holding, in the case of
Pierce, that the secretary had no power to biud'tle United
States by the acceptances; that the acceptances were to be
regarded as within the act of 81st January, 1823, and as ail
attempt to avoid it, and were, therefore, void; that no de
cision of the Supreme Court authorized such acceptances;
that the evidence failed to establish any usage, in the different departments, by which the 6ecretary of War was authorized to accept, in behalf of the United States, the bills in
suit, and that if such uage or practice were established, it
could not avail the claimant, because forbidden by law.
And finding, in the other three cases, that though it is and
has been the practice of heads o f departments to accept
drafts or bills of exchange for the transmission of fands to disbursing officers, or the payment of those serving indistant stalions, or for services rendered, the cases were still substantially
the same as the case of Pierce, and, like it, to be dismissed.
The record did not show that anything remained due to
the contractors, or was due when the bills matured; no
evidence on the state of the accounts being given on either
side.
* 3 Stat. at Large, 723.

Dree. 1868.]

THE FLOYD

ACCEPTANCES.

Argument for the appellants.

Messrs. Black, Caris,and Gooderich,for the appellants:
The Court of Claims declared the acceptances to be null
and void, for the reasons, in substance, that1. To accept these particular bills was a violation or evasion of the act of 1823.
2. No usage to accept bills like these existed- in the department, and that such usage would be unlawful if it did
exist.
3. No decision of the Supreme Court authorized these:
acceptances, or made them binding.
Now was this an advance of public money? Take it to
be true that the acceptance was given for money yet to be
earned. Then the case is this: The con :ractor comes to
the secretary and tells him that the army in a distant and
hostile territory is in danger of suffering for lack of supplies, and he (the contractor) cannot furnish them without
more capital than his present xneans will command. The
secretary says, "I can pay you no money out of the public
treasury until it is due, according to thevery terms of your
contract; but your credits are daily accumulating, and in a
few months the sum you want will be legally payable. I
have no objection to put the future obligation of the United
States into a negotiable form, so that if you are willing to
pay the discount, you can get somebody else tb make the
adv4nce, which I cannot make. But I must do this eautiously. I will subject the government to no risk. I will
accept your bills only for fifty per cent. of the amount which
will be due upon the delivery of the goods which are now
actually in transitu." This was the reverse of an advance of
the public money.
The court assert that the acceptances.were not authorized
by the ,decisions of the Supreme Court. Yet the power is
recognized in many decisions, and in The United Slates v.
Bank of the Metropolis,* at least, it is directly and positively
affirmed.
The authority of the secretary to give these acceptances,
15 Peters, 877t

THE FLQOYD ACCEPiANCES.

[Sul). ct.

Argument for the appellants.

is proved beyond a doubt, unless the practice of eighty years',
with the sanction of Congress and the "express adjudication
of this court, i to be disregarded. It is a curious fact, that
the Court of Claims in the case of Pierce, deny th6 authority
of a secetlry to accept \bills of exchange, and accompany
that denial with an assertion that the practice does not exist;
while in the other case they admit that " it i and has been the
practice of beads of departments to accept drafts or bills of
exchahge for the transmission of funds to disbursipg officers,
or for the payment of those serving at distant stations, or for
services rendered." This last statement is true. Being true,
it shows tihe existence of the power in a secretary to bind
the United States in that way,
The JEquities.-So far as regards these, the defence is utterly niaked. All the facts found by the court show that
there was no fraud or collusion between the drawers and
Floyd, nothing done and nothing intended except what was
right and proper.
In United Slates v. Reeside, tried before the. late Mr. Justice
Baldwin,* a case very similar to this, though the acceptance
there was by the Postmaster-General, he charged the jury

thus:
"This is the broad rule by which to measure the official acts
of the Postmaster-General, done within his granted powers:
The agency of the Postmaster-General is not confined to the
letter of the law. The known usage of this department, not
corrected or repudiated by any law, may be equivalent to a new
grant of power by Congress, especially in matters officially communicated to either House, and not disposed of by resolution or
forbidden by law; the acquiescence of the legislature in a notorious
usage having the same.effect of a law where former laws are sileni on
the subject. This is a rule in relation to all'the departments of
the government. The operations of the Post-office Department
cannot be suspended for an hour without public complaint ad
inconvenience. Yet contingencies constantly arise, which require the most prompt and efficient action, without regard to
* MS.

Dec. 1868.]

THE FLOYD ACCEPTANCES.

Argument for the appellees.

expense in any case, and often without inquiring into his pow
er8, which. the public take for granted are adequate to any emergency, and hold him responsiblefor their plenary exercise. We cannot sanction the doctrine contended for, that we must settle
controverted accounts with a view to the public interests. If
injustice has been done to the United States by their authorized
agent, which can only be repaired by the invasion of a private
right, they must seek thei remedy against thqir officer. If he
accept the draft of a contractor, absolutely, the United States is
bound to iay it to the holder to the same extent and on the same principle which apply to a bill of exchange drawn on, and accepted by, a
private person. So the Supreme Court have settled thd law, in
United States v. Bank of the Metropolis."
Mr. Bvarts, Attorney-General, and Mr. -Dickey, Assistant Attorney-General, contra, contended:
,That'the Secretary of War is in no sense a principal; he
is only one of the agents of the executive departments of
the government', with powers defiued and duties indicated
by law.
That the powers of a public agent are to be determined by
law,and those pc'rvers are limited by the law to the performance of specific duties imposed upon such agents; and his
powers are to be construed with reference to the design and
object of them.
- Thai the powers of such an agent being conferred and
]iinited by law, all persons dealing upon his authority, are
cliargeablewith notice of the extent of his powers.
That all the fiscal operations of the United States, all the
bouds,' bills, a nd-notes issued by the government, are required, by law, to be done by the Treasury Department,'
the sole ageney, under the law, authorized to perform those
fimction .
That no bond, bill, treasury note, or other evidence of
-debt,-'can be issuedi nor can any debtagainst the United
-States be cremtted,-efcept in virtue of a law of Congress.
That, therefore, the Secretary of War bad no authority,
ilivirtue of his offiial character, to accept bills of exchange
and-bind t:e -United States for their payment.
,VQL VIZ.

48

674

THE FLOYD ACCEPTANOES.

,[Sup. Ct

O!inion or tne court.

That the issuing and use of the bills of exchange, in this
case, for the put-poses disclosed in this investigation, was
without authority. of law.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The cases before us are demands against the United States,
founded upon instruments claimed to be bills of eechauge,
drawn by Russell,, Majors & Waddell, on John B. Floyd,
Secretary of War, and accepted by him. in that capacity;
purchased by plaintiffs before maturity, for a'valuable conside ation, and, as they allege, without notipe of any defence
tO them.

Mr. Pierce, in his petition, relies on the facts that the signature of John, B. Floyd, to these acceptancesi is genuine,
and that he was at the time of the acceptance Secretary of
War, 'as sufficient to establish his claim. He avers that
Floyd, as Secretary ' of War, had authority to accept the
drafts, and that by his acceptance the United States became
bound. It is evident that he means by this merely to assert, as a principle of law, that, by virtue of his office, the
secretary had such authority, and not that there existed, in
this case, special facts which gave such authority; for he
mentions no such facts in his petition, and when the solicitors for the defendant undertook to show under what circmistances the bills were issued and accepted, he objected
to the evidence. Its admission is one of the alleged errors
on which he brings the case to this court.
Both Mr. Pierce and his counsel, therefore, claim to recover on the doctrine that when a party produces an instrument in the form of a bill of exchange, which he has pilldhased before its maturity, drawin-on the Secretary of War,
anid accepted by him, he has established a claim against the
government which admits of no inquiry into the circumstances under which the acceptance was made.
The other defendants, also, in their original petitions, assert and rely upon the same principle; but they have also
filed amended petitions, in which they set forth facts connected with the acceptance of the secretary, which they

Dec. 1868.]

THE FLOYD

ACCEPTANCES.

675

Opinion of the court.

deem sufficient to establish his right or authority to accept.
Most of the facts, found under the issues made by these
amended petitions, were also found under the general issue
in Pierce's case, notwithstanding his objection; so that, if
they avail the other plaintiffs, they will also support his
claim.
It will be convenient, therefore, to consider, first, the
proposition on which he rests his case, which, if found to be
sound, disposes of all the cases in favor of plaintiffs.
One of the main elements of that proposition, much and
eloquently urged upon our attention, seems to be too well
established by the decisions of this court, to admit now
of serious controversy. It must be taken as settled, that
when the United States becomes a party to what is called
commercial paper-by which is meant that class of paper
which is transferable by indorsement or delivery, and -between private parties, is exempt in the hands of innocent
holders from inquiry into the circumstances under which it
was' put in circulation-they are bound in any court, to
wh.ose jurisdiction they submit, by the same principles that
govern individuals in their relations to such paper.
- Conceding, then, for the sake of argument, tht the instruments under consideration are, in form, bills of that
character, and that the signat-4re of Floyd is genuine, and
that he was at the time Secretary of War, there remains but
one question to be considered essential to plaintiffs' right to
recover, and that concerns the authority of the secretary to
accept the bills on behalf of the government.
It is not to be denied, that in the extensive and varied
fiscal operations of the government, bills of exchange a'e
found to 'be valuable instruments, of which it has the right
to avail itself whenever they may be necessary. In the
transfer of immense sums of money from one part of the
country to another, and in the payment of dues at distant
points, where they should properly be paid, it uses, as it
ought to use, th's time-honored mode of effecting these puro.
poses.
'In the case of .uch paper, issued by an individual, when

THE FLOYD ACCEPTANCES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

we make ourselves sure of his signature, we are sure that he
is bound, because the right to make such paper belongs to
all men. But the government is an abstrhct entity, which
has no hand to write or mouth to speak, and has no sig.
nature which can be recognized, as in the case of an individual. It speaks and acts only through.agentg, or more
properly, officers. These are many, and have various and
diverse powers confided to them.
An individual may, instead of signing, with his own hand,
the notes and bills which he issues or accepts, appoint an
agent to do these things for him. '-And this appointment
may be a general power to draw or accept in all cases as
fully as the principal could;,or it may be a limited authority
to draw or accept under given circua stances, defined in the
instrument which confers the power. But,,iu each case, the
person dealing with the agent, knowing that he acts only
by virtue of a delegated power, must, at his peril, see that
the paper on which he relies comes within the power under
which the agent acts. And this applies to every person
who takes the paper afterwards; for it is to be kept in mind
that the protection which commercial usage throws around
negotiable paper, cannot be used to establish the authority
by which it was originally issued. These principles are
well established in regard to the transactions of individuals.
They are equally applicable to those of the- government.
Whenever negotiable paper is found in the market purporting to bind the government, it must necessarily be by the
signature of an officer of the government, and the purchaser
of such paper, whether the first holder or another, must, at
his peril, see that the officer had authority to bind the government.
When this inquiry arises, where are we to -look for the
authority of the officer?
The answer, which at once suggests itself to one familiar
with the structure of our government, in which all power is
delegated, and is defined by law, constitutional or statutory,
is, that to one or both of these sources we must resort in
every instance. We have no officers in this government,

Dec. 1868.]

THE FLOYD

ACCaPTiNCES.-

'Opinisn ofthe Court.

from the President down to the most subordinate agent,
who. does not hold office iinder the law, with prescribedduties and limited authority. And while someof these, as
'the President, the Legisliture, and the Judiciary, exercise
powers in some sense left to the more general definitions
necessarily incident to fundamental law found in the Constitution, the larger portion of themare thc creation of statutory law, with 'duties and powers 'prescribed and limitei
by that law. It would seem reasonable, then, that on the
question of the authority of the Secretary of War to accept
bills of exchange, we must look mainly to the acts of Congress.
The counsel for claimants, not altogether rejecting this
view of the matter, maintain that the power is derived1st. From the true construction of the Constitution and.
acts of Congress.
2d. From the decisions of the Supreme Court of the
'United States; by which is probably meant only the authoritative construction of the Constitution and laws.
3d: From the usage of. the government in similar cases.
We will examine these severial alleged sources of the power
in th'reverse order to that here stated.
1. As regards usage, it mist occur at once that if there
,are instances in which the use of bills of exchange by the
6ffibers of government is. authorized by law, as undoubtedly
there are, the use of them in such cases, however common,
cannot establish a usage in cases not so authorized. It may
also be questioned whhther the frequent exercise of a powaer
unauthorized by law, by officers of the government, can ever
by its frequency be made to stand as a just foundation for
the very authority which is thus assumed.
It is to be observed in this connection, that the Court of
Claims finds as a fact, in Pierce's case, that "the evidence
fails to establish any usage or practice in the different departments of the government, by virtue of which the Sec,retary of War was authorized to accept, in behalf bf the
United States, the bills in suit;" and so far as' that case is
concerned this inquiry might close there.

-

THE FLOYD ACCEPTANCES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the cuurt.

But in the finding of facts which the same court makes in
the other three cases, it is said, "That it is, and has been
the practice of the heads of departments, to accept drafts or
bills of exchange for the transmission of funds to disbursing
officers, or the payment of those serving in distant stations,
or for services rendered." The usage here fbund is limited
to specified classes of cases, and if authorized by law, can
he no evidence of a usage in cases not so authorized. It
cannot be held to support the allegation of a usage so general as to apply to any case in which the head of the department may see proper to use it.
WVe make the further observation in this connection, that
while it is readily to be seen that the exigencies of the business of the departments may require drafts to be drawn by
them, and may justify drafts being drawn on them, which
they ought to and do pay when presented, there can be no
occasion for an acceptance by any department or officer of a
draft drawn on either of them.
-We do not think, therefore, that usage is a sufficient reliance as an authority for the acceptance of these drafts.
2. The United States v. Bank of the Metropolis,* is the case
mainly relied on as establishing the doctrine contended for
by plaintiffs, and is confidently asserted to be conclusive of
the cases under consideration, unless overruled.
'That case undoubtedly did decide, that when an officer of
the government; authorized to do so, accepted a draft in behalf
of the United States or one of the departments, the validity
of the instrument could not be disputed in the hands of an
innocent holder. We have already stated this as the established doctrine of this court. And that proposition was the
principal, if not the only one, controverted in that case. An
attentive examination of it will show that the authority of
the officers to accept was not raised by counsel or considered
by the court.
The Bank of the Metropolis being sued for certain balances in favor of the United, States, pleaded as a set-off a
* 15 Peters, 377.

.Dec. 1868.].

TiE FLOYD AcOEP'ANC.
Opinion of tne court:

draft digawn by Edwin Porter on Richard 0. Mason, Treas.
urer 6f the Post Office Department, at ninety days, and accepted'by him as Treasurer; and also four drafts at niiiety
days, drawn by James Reeside on Amos Kendall, Postmaster-General, and "accepted on condition that his*contracts
be complied ivith."
It does npt appear to have been controverted that Mason
had authprity to accept the draft of Porter, by either the
counsel for the government or the bank; and the court seem
to have treated it as conceded.
The 'opinion of the court, after stating the facts, opens
with the declaration that, "when the United States, b. its
authorized officer, becomes a party to negQtiable paper, they
have all the rights, and incur all the responsibilities of individuals who are parties to such instruments." And further
on it is said, that "an unconditional acceptance was tendered
to it (the bank) for discount; .... all it had to look to was
the genuineness of the acceptance, and the authority of the
officer to give it." If this language has any significance, it
is that the authority of the officer, like the genuineness of
the signature, is always to be inquired into at the peril of
the party taking an acceptance purporting to bind th6 govemnment.
I Only a small paxt of that elaborate opinion is devoted to
Porter's draft, and to the questions involved in it, and the
remainder of it is oecedpied in discussing the effect of the
condition annexed to the acceptance of Reeside's draft on its
commercial character, and to determining what is implied
in that condition.
It seems, therefore, quite clear that no consideration whatever was given by the court to what constituted an authority
to draw or accept bills of exchange; but that it was impliedly held to be a matter always open to inquiry when the
draft was attempted to be enforced against the government.
Nor a~e we aware of any case in this court in which the rule
for determining that authority has been laid down.
Recurring, then, to the,w"itten law as the'exclusive source
of such authority, we may confidently assert that there is no

680

Tim FLOYD ACCEPTANCES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

express authority to any officer of the government to draw
or accept bills of exchange.
Our statute books are filled with acts authorizing the making of contracts with the government through its various
officers and departments, but, in every instanc , the person
entering into such a contract must look to the statute under
which it is made, and see for himself that his contract comes
within the terms of the law.
Does the contract, called a bill of exchange, stand on any
different footing? "It is true, that when once made, by a
person having authority to make it, in any given case, it is
not open to the-sanie inquiries, in the hands of a third party,
that ordinary contracts are, as to the justice, fairness, and
good faith which attended its origin, or any of its subsequent
transfers; but, in reference to the authority of the officer who
makes it, to bind the government, it is to be judged by the
same rule as other contracts.
The authority to issue bills of exchange- not being one
expressly given by statute, can only arise as an incident to
the exercise of some other power. When it becomes the
duty of an officer to pay money at a distant point, he may
do so by a bill of exchange, because that is the usual and
appropriate mode of doing it. So, when an officer or agent
of the government at a distance, is entitled to money here,
the person holding the fund may pay his drafts. And wvhenever, in conducting any of the fiscal afiirs of the government, the drawing a bill of exchange is the appropriate
means of doing that which the department, or officer having
the natter in charge, has a right to do,.then he can draw
and bind the government in doing so. But the obligation
resting on him to perform that duty, and his right and
authorty to effect such an object, is always open to inquiry,
and if they be found wanting, or if they be forbidden by express statute, then the draft or acceptance is not binding on
the government.
It cannot be maintained that, because an officer can lawfully issue bills of exchange for some purposes, that no inquir3 can be made n. any case into the purpose for wliich a

Dec: 1868.]'

THE FL'bYD ACcEPTANCES.

681

Opinion of the court.

bill was issued. The government cannot be held to a more
rigid rule,'in this respect, than a private individual.
If A. authorizes B. to buy horses for him, and to draw on
him for the purchase-money, B. cannot buy land and bind
A., by drawing on him for the price. Such a doctrine 'vould
enable a man, in private life, to whom a well-defined and
limited authority was given, to ruin the principal who had
conferred it. So it would place the government at the mercy
'f all its agents and officers, although the laws under which
they act are public statutes. This doctrine would enable
the head of a department to flood the country with bills of
exchange, acceptances, and other forms of negotiable paper,
without authority and without limit. No governnnt could
protect itself, uider such a doctrine, by any statutory restriction of authoi ity short of an absolute prohibition of the
use of all commercial paper.
In accordance with these views, we Are of.6pinion that, as
there .can be no lawful occasion for any department of the
government,-or for any of its officers,, or agents, to accept
drafts drawn on them, under any statute or other law now
known to us, such acceptances cannot bind the government.
An examination of the facts found by the Court of Claims,
confirms the views.already stated.
Counsel for the plaintiffs seem to have been of the opinion, from tle'start, that ther~e was nothing in the nature of
the traus, ction"which would support .the paper on which
they sued, for they steadily resisted all efforts on the part of
government to give the facts in evidence; and in the arguments made in this courf, the right to recover is rested
almost exclusively on ,the proposition that, because in some
cases the secretary might lawfully accept, it must be presumed in 'their -favor that these draft§ were lawfully accepted.
It seems to us that such a transaction can be defended on
no principle of law, and that; in thus lending to Russell &
Co. the name and credit of the United States, the secretary
was acting wholly beyond the scope of his, authority. The
paper was, in flact, accommodation paper, as it was found to

THE FLOYD ACCEPTANCES.

[Sup. (Ct

Opinion of tbe court.

be by the Court of Claims, by which the secretary indertook
to make the United States acceptor for the sole benefit of
the drawers. It was a loan of the credit of the government
volunteered by him, without consideration and without authority. That the transaction was not payment, nor intended to be payment, for the supplies furnished, is clear,
because the acceptances were not expected to be paid by
the government, nor payable at the treasury, but were to be
met, by the drawers at the bank with which they dealt.
These drafts did not interrupt in the least the regular payments made to Russell & Co. by the Quartermaster's Department, according to their contracts. Nor do the drafts
seem to have had any relation to anything due on these
contracts, or to what might become due before their maturity. It was, therefore, not payment, nor so considered
by either party.
But if these acceptances can be considered as payments,
they were payments in advance of the service rendered and
supplies furnished-payments made before anything was
due. They are in that view not only without authority of
law, but are expressly forbidden by the act of January 31,
1823.* The first section of that statute, which has never
been repealed, enacts "that, from and after the passing of
this act, no advance of public money shall be made in any
case whatever; but in alt cases of contracts for the performance of any service, or the delivery of articles of any description for the use of the United States, payment shall not
exceed the value of the services rendered, or the articles
delivered previous to such payment."
The transaction by which these drafts were accepted was
in direct violation of this law. and of the limitations which
it imposes upon all officers of the government. Every citizen of.the United States is supposed to know the law, and
when a purchaser of one of these drafts began to make the
inquiries necessary to ascertain the authority for their acceptance, he must have learned at once that, if received by Rus8 Stat. at Large, 723.

Pec. 1968.j'

683

THE FLOYD. ACCEPTAX'CES.

Opinion of Nelson, Grier, and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

sll, Majors & Waddell, as payment, they were in violation
of law, and if received as accommodation paper, they were
evasions of this law, and without any shadow of authority.
It is pyoper to observe, that it does not appear from this
iecord, that anything remains due to Russell & Co., under
their contract with the government, or that anything was
due them at the maturity of any of these drafts, nor is there
arty attempt on the part of plaintiifl to show eithei of these
things, or the state of the accounts between those contractors
and the government at the time the drafts matured
These cases have long been before the departments, before Congress, and the Court of Claims, and have been the
subject of much laborious consideration everywhere. The
amount involved is large, the principles oh which the claims
are asserted, are, to some extent, new, and we have given
them a careful and earnest investigation. We are of opinion
that the judgments rendered by the Court of Claims against
the plaintiffs, must be'
AFFIRMED.

Mr.Justice NELSON (with whom concurred GRIER and
CLIFFORD, JJ.) dissenting:
I am unable to concui in the opinion just delivered.
The instruments, in the form of bills of exchange, drawn.
by Russell, Majors & Waddell, upon, and accepted by Fl6yd,
Secretary of War, were drawn on "account of our contract
for supplies for the army in Utah," or "on account of our
transportation contract of the 12th April, 1860."
These are, not bills of exchange, in the sense of the law
merchant, or possessing the properties of negotiable'paper.
They are drawn upon a particular fund,'in terms which may
or may not be sufficient to pay the bills, and hence a contingency exists whether or not they will be paid at maturity.
All the cases agree that the'money mentioned in the instrument must be payable absolutely and at all events, and not
made to depend on any uncertainty or contingency.*
S Kent's Com. 76-7, and notes; Story on Bills cf Excbange,

46.

THE FLOYD ACCEPTANCES.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of Nelson, Grier, and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

The instruments not belng negotiable, the assignees or
holders taking them, are subject to all the equities that may
exist between the acceptor and the drawer, and stand in no
better position, in the present case, than iRussell, Majors &
Waddell. As between these parties and the government,
the obligation assumed by Floyd, as representing it by his
acceptance, was to account and to apply all the moneys due,
or that might become due on the contracts for transportation
or supplies, specified in the bills or drafts, at their maturitX.
To this extent the government became bound to the contractors, or to the assignees or holders of the same; and as
the acceptance by the secretary assumes or implies that
there were some funds due, or mighf become d.ue on the contracts in his hands, subject to these drafts, the onus was on
the government to give evidence of the amount, or to state
the account with the drawer, so as to ascertain the amount
due; if any. This evidence was peculiarly in the power of
the government. As no such adjustment has been made,
fbr aught that 'appears, the government may now have in
its hands moneys belonging to these contractors, to pay the
drafts.
I am of opinion, also, that under the sixth section of the
act of May 1, 1820, it was competent for the Secretary of
"War to accept bills of exchange in behalf of these contractors, and that if the bills in question had possessed negotiable properties, the government would have been bound to a
bondfide holder for value.
That section provides, "that no, contract shall hereafter
be made by the Secretary of State, or of the Treasury, or of
the Department of War, or of the Navy, except under a law
authorizing the same, or under an appropriation adequate
to its fulfilment; and excepting, also, contracts for the subsistence and clothing of the army or navy, and contracts by
the Quartermaster's Department, which may be made by the
secretaries of those departments."
It will thus be seen that contracts for the subsistence and
clothing of the army and navy, by the secretaries, are not
tied up by any necessity of an appropriation or law author-

Dec. 1868.]

WHITELY V. SWAYNE.
Statement of the case.,

izing it. The reason of this is obvious. The army and
navy must be fed, and clothed, and cared for at all times
and places, and especially when in distant service. The
army in Mexico or Utah are not to be disbanded anjd'left to
take care of themselves, because the, appropriation by Congress, for the service, has been exhausted, or no law can be
found on the statute book authorizing a contract.for sup-'
pies. The above act confers upon the secretaries f'ull authority to contract for these supplies,.and which bind ther
governnient; and the most ready and convenient md of
accomplishin this, would-be by accepting bills of exchange
drawn by the contractors of the distant army or navy, upon
the secretaries at home:
The credit of the government, thus pledged, would at once,
furnish the necessary subsistence, clothing, and shelter.
Our conclusion is, that the judgment below should be re:
versed, and the cause remitted, with directions to, grant a
new trial, ,and further proofs taken, that complete justice
niay be done between the parties.

WHITELY V. SWAYN1.
-1. Where a patenrt has been granted for improvements, which, after a fiill
and fair trial, resulted in unsuccessful experiments, and have been iinally
abandoned, if any other person takes up the subject, of the improveenReits,
and is successful, he is entitled to the merit of them as an original
inventor,
2. He is the first inventor, and entitled' to the patent, who, being an original
discoverer, has first perfected ancd adapted the invention to actual use.

WHITELY fileda bill against Swayne, in the Circuit Court
for Southern Ohio, to enjoin the use of a certain machine'
known as the Kirbey.Harvester..
As the case was presented in the argument, he relied upon
a patent granted to one Steadman, May 28, 1854, for an improvement in clover and grass-seed harvesters, which had

