ID~c. 1868*1

'GRANT V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

portions-whether they are substantially the same or subbtanitially different-is a question of fact and for the jury:"
If the jury in flnding for the defendants have erred, the
this court.
remedy is not in.
JUDGMENT AFFIRUED.

GRANT V. UNITED STATES.
1. An "inspection' at the place of shipping instead of at the place'of delivery,
by the officers of the United States, of supplies which a contractor has
agreed to deliver at a distant point, does not pass the property to the
United States so as to relieve the contractor from his obligation tq de'liver at such distant point.
2. Where a contract with the government to furnish to it supplies does not
stipulate for an inspection at a place earlier than the place of delivery,
it is optional with the contractor whether he will have the goods inspected at such earlier place.
3. Where a delay by the government in making-an inspection of supplies,
agreed to be made at the place of shipping instead of at the place of delivery, is not the proximate cause of a.loss of the supplies afterwards
suffered, the loss must -be borne by the party in whom the title to the
supplies is vested; and, if still in the contractor, by him.
4. This rule applies even where supplies have been seized by the public
enemy without any default of the owner.
5. Where the government makes a contract with arl individual that he shall
furnish all spplie3 needed at a certain post, and afterwards rescinds the
cortract, the individual cannot recover from thegovernment for a breach
of the contract unless he prove that supplies were needed at' the post
designated.
6. The Court cf Claims was not instituted to try cases of mere nominal
damages.
APPEAL from the Court' of Claims; in which court Grant,
for himself, and as assigiee of one Taliafero, a former paritnor, had filed a petition claiming reimbursement and damages from the United States. The case was this:
On the 9th of March, 1860, the Secretary of War, at that
time Mr. Floyd, addressed an order to the QuartermasterGeneral and Commissary-General of Subsistence, granting
to the said Taliafero and Grant ihe privilege of furnishing

GRANT V. UNIED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

and delivering, at certain posts in Arizona, for a period of
two years, all the supplies that mighl'be needed there for the use
of the service, at certain stipulated rates. There was nothing in this order making an inspection necessary elsewhere
-than at the place of delivery.
On the 29th of July, 1860, the proper officer in Arizona
served a requisition on Grant for commissary articles, and
the War Department approved the order on the 22d day of
September following, with notice that the articles to be purcbased would be inspected at Boston or New York.
Some delays took place in regard to the inspection; for
the appointment of a proper person to make which, the
shipping agents of Grant had made a request on the 20th
September, 1862.

Major Eaton finally inspected the last of

the-supplies, certifying that they 'Were contained in strong,
sound, full-hooped barrels and well-secured tierces, properly
marked with the names of the places to which they were
destined, and were of the kind and quality usually provided
by the subsistence department. This inspection did not
take place until the 3d, 4th, 5th of December, 1860. The
Court of Claims found, however, as facts, that the only delay
attributable to the United States was a delay in appointing
an inspector from the 22d September to the 21st November,
1860; that such delay did not preclude Grant's agents from
purchasing the supplies required, and having thdm ready
for inspection; that the supplies inspected by Major Eaton
were sold to Grant of the 20th of November, 1860; that the
United States were ready to inspect supplies on the 21st of
November, 1860, and thereafter, ,nd on that date so notified
to Grant's agents; that the inspection was not made at that
time, but was postponed at the request of the said agents
from the difficulty they had found in procuring a part of the
supplies; that these were not then ready for shipment and
inspection; that there was no evidence of any notice to the
United States to make inspection other than one contained
in a letter of the agents to 'Major Eaton, dated November
'22d, 186G.
The suppli - thus inspected were immediately afterwards

Dec. 1868.]

DGRANT V. UNITED STATES.
Argument tor the coitractor.

'shipped to La~acca, and arrived there about the 10th January, 1861. They were here laden on wagons, forty-one
Ivagons in all, but afterproceeding a sh'ort distance, the train
was obliged, owing to want of pasturage at that season'of
the year, to stop and go into camp and ,await the growth of
grass. A delay was thus incurred of about two months and
ten days, when the train again proceeded, and arrived at
Rio Honde, where it was captured on the 20th April by the
troops of Texas, then in a state of iebellion against the
1.
United States.
For the goods, wagons, and teams thus lost, the petitioners
.claimed reimbursement.
The petition also set forth great loss to the petitioner,
asking damages for it, from the fact that while, as alleged,
he was in the due execution of his contracts, and actually
engaged in the transportation of supplies from Lavacca to
Arizona, the United States, 'of its own wrong, and without
any fault or negligence on his part, and without notice to
him, and without his agreement or consent, bad set a6ide
and rescinded the said contracts. On this partof the case it
appeared that in April, 1861, the Assistant Commissary-General had recommended to Mr. Cameron, by this time Secretary of War, that the contracts "be rescinded," and that,
from a sense of insecurity, certain of the articles should be
forwarded from St. Louis, and that others might be procured
in Arizona or Sonora, of those persons who would furnish
them at the cheapest rates. The secretary approving the
order, the contract was no longer regarded by the United
States as valid.
The Court of Claims dismissed the petition, and the elaimant appealed.
Mr. C. B. Gooderich,for the appellant:
LI. The petitioner submitted to and acted upon the direction to inspect at Boston and New York. That it was competent for the secretary and the petitioner to agree to inspect at
those -places, and, to that extent, to modify the terms of, the
original order, there can be ,nQ doubt. The petitioner having

•34

GRANT V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup., Ct.

Argument for the contractor.

acted upon, it, pro tanto, the government cannot be allowed
to say it was not obligatory upon him. 'The fact, if it were
a fact, that the direction of the War Department for the inspection in Boston and New York, was for the benefit of the
contractor, cannot destroy his rights undter the modification
of the contract.
The inspection by Major Eaton, his acceptance thereof, as
shown by his certificate, passed the title in and to the goods
inspected and marked.
After inspection and marking, the goods remained in the
possession of the claimant but for transportation. The completion of this was prevented by the public enemy, and consequently the loss must be borne, by the government. The
capture of the goods by an armed force, in rebellion, acting
with intent to subvert the government, under the facts found
in the case, is a delivery to the United States of the goods
ordered.
The relation of the parties, the purpose of the seizure made
by the enemy, the use for which the supplies were intended,
taken in connection with the fact that the petitioner, as a
contractor with the government, must be regarded as in its
service, and was rightfully in the face of the enemy, conduce
to show that the capture, in this case, by an armed ehemy
of the government, stands upon grounds peculiar and distinct from those which may or may not apply to a capture
from a contractor under other circumstances.
Upon principle, in all cases in which private property is
seized by a public enemy, without any default of the owner,
the government is bound to sustain the loss. Vattel* concedes the principle, although he adds, "that no action lies
against the s'ate for misfortunes of this nature." He denies
but the remedy. He says that "the sovereign, indeed, ought
to show an equitable regard for the sufferers, if the situation
of his affairs will admit of it."
IT. The rescission of the contract, by Secretary Cameron,
without cause shown, and in the absence of any default on
* Law of Nations, p. 403.

Dec. 1868.]

GRAIT V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

the part of the petitioner, entitles him to damages, which
are to be determined by an ascertainment of the profits
which he would have made if the contract had not been re. scinded, or by a consideration of the expenses which the
petitioner had incurred-in obtaining teams, &c., to enable
* him to execute his contract.
Mr. Dickey, Assistant Attorney-General, contra, contended:
L That the claim for the loss of private property taken in
war by the enemy, could not be sustained on principles of
law, and was no such claim as the Court of Claimshas jurisdiction to try and allow.
That the inspection of goods of a contractor thousands of
miles from the place of delivery, did not vest the property
so inspected in the United States.
That the whole claim for the loss by capture rested upon
the position, that this resultdd, without the fault of clainiant,
from delays caused by the culpable neglect of the United
States to inspect the goods at an earlier day; but that the
facts did not sustain, the claim.
I. As to the rescission. That assuming that tho order of
Secretary Floyd was a contract, it nowhere appeared that
any such supplies were needed after' the rescinding of the
order. The rescinding of it, therefore, was after the full'
execution of it, inasmuch as all the supplies needed, &c., had
already been furnished, and nothing remained to be~d'oue
under the order, or if it were a contract, under the contract.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
On the theory that the order of the Secretary of War of
March 9th, 1860, granting- to Taliafero and Grant the privilege of furnishing and delivering, at certain posts in Arizona,
for two years, all the supplies that might be needed there
for the service, at certain stipulated rates, was a contract,
rutdally binding on the government and the claimant, the
obligations imposed on the parties to it are clearly defined.
It was the duty of the claimant, as well. as his exclusive
privilege, to furnish all the supplies which were needed for

GRANT V.'UNIT1D STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the use of the service in Arizona, and on the receipt of the
goods there, the government was bound to pay him for them
the prices which were fixed in the order. It is too plain for
contr6versy, that the property did not vest .in the United
States until it was delivered. To escape the "force of this
rule at law, it is insisted, as the goods were inspected in
New York and pronounced to be of the proper kind and
quality, that the title then passed to the United States, and
that they only remained in possession' of the claimant for
transpo tatton, and as he was prevented from delivering
them by the public enemy, the loss must be borne by the
United States., This position cannot be sustained, for the
inspection at New York, on which it is based, did not work
a change of title in the property, not was it 4n the contemplation of the parties that it should. It did not affect the
contract at al.l. The goods, by a well-known usage of the
War Department, had to be inspected somewhere, and as
the contract contained nothing on the subject, it was for the
advantage of the contractor that they should be inspected
before shipment, rather than at the point of delivery. The
*War Department took upon itself no additional responsibility by inspecting them in New York, instead of Arizona,
and this inspection in no wise relieved the claimant from
any obligation wliieh'he had assumed. He had agreed to
deliver the goods in Arizona, and until he did this there
was no contract on the part of the government, either express or implied, to pay him for them. All that the certificate of Major Eaton, the i nspecting officer, proves, is, that
the goods, when presented to him for inspection, were'contained in strong, sound, full-hooped barrels and well-secured
tierces, properly marked with the names of the places to
which they were destined, and were of the kind and quality
usually provided by the subsistence department.
But, it is said the capture of the property is chargeable to
the delay of the War Department in making the inspection,
and in consequence of this, that the government is not only
bound to pay for the supplies which were taken possession
of by the enemy, but also to reimburse the claimant for the

Dec. 1868.]

GRANT V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

loss of his wagons and teams. The answer to this is, that the
order of the 9th of March, 1860, did not require inspection
at Boston or N~ew York, and if the Secretary of War chose
to change the order afterwards, by directing that the goods
should be inspected at those places, it was optional with the
claimant Whether or not he would submit to such direction.
But, conceding that the Secretary of War had the right
to direct where the goods should be inspected, still he was
not required to inspect, until the goods were substantially
ready for inspection, and he was notified of the fact; and it
is plain, by the finding of the court below, that after such
notice and actual .readiness, he did not culpably delay the
inspection. The evidence shows very clearly, that the difficulty which the agents of the claimant experienced in filling
the requisition, was the cause of the delay in inspecting and
shipping the goods. If, however, it be admitted that the
government was in default in not inspecting sooner, that
default had no connection with the subsequent injury suffered by the claimant, and was not the proximate cause of
it. In such a case the rule of law applies, that-where property is destroyed by accident, the party in whom the title is
vested must bear the loss.*
It is insisted that this rule does not apply where private
property is seized by the public enemy without any default
of the owner, and that in such a case the government is
bound to indemnify the sufferers. But the principles of
public law do not sanction such a doctrine, and Vattel (page
403) says no action lies againsf the state for misfortunes of
this nature. "They are accidents caused by inevitable necessity, and must be borne by those on whom they happen
to fall."
Whether there are equities in this particular case, and if
so, whether they require that the claimant should be reimbdrsed, in whole or in part, for the capture of his property,
under the circumstances, are questions that must be addiessed
: McConihe v. The New York and Erie Railroad Company, 20 New
York, 496.
Vol. VIL

. .22

UNITED STATES V.

SHOEMAKER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

to Congress, for it is not the province of the Judicial department of the government to determine them.
The only remaining point in the case, relates to the rescission by Secretary Cameron of the order of the 9th of March.
This proceeding was undoubtedly taken because the supplies needed in Arizona could be either purchased there at
cheaper rates, or forwarded more securely from St. Louis.
Whether the conduct of the Secretary of War was or was
not justifiable, is not a question to be considered in deciding
this suit, for the claimant has not shown a state of case on
which he could recover if the rescinding order had never
been made. The contract entitled him to furnish, at certain
prices, all the supplies that might be needed in Arizona
until the 20th of March, 1862. To enable him to recover,
for a breach of this contract, he should have proved that
supplies were needed at the posts in Arizona after the rescinding order was made, and the pecuniary loss he sustained
in not being allowed to furnish them. This he has wholly
failed to do.
We cannot see that this is a case for even nominal damages; but if it is, the Court of Claims was not instituted to
try such a case.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

UNITED STATES V. SHOEMAKER.
Prior to the act of June 12th, 1858, providing compensation not exceeding
one quarter of one per cent. to collectors acting as disbursing agents of
the United States in certain cases, such collector, if receiving his general
maximum compensation, under the act of March 2d, 1831 (Q4), and also
his special maximum of $400, under the act of May 7th, 1822 (Q 18),
could not recover on a quantum meruit or otherwise for disbursements
made for building a custom-house and marine hospital at the port where
he was collector.
ERROR

Michigan.

to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of

This suit was brought by the United States on a bond

