EX PARTE BRADLEY.

[SUP. Ct

Syllabus.

The claimant has not shown that he was ever known or
recognized by the United States as one of the parties to, or
as interested in, the contract made by Captain Meigs, on'behalf of the United States, for furnishing bricks for the construction of the Washington aqueduct. That contract provides that it should not be sub-let or assigned.
The petition shows that the claimant was acting under a
contract with Mechlin & Alexander (who were the sureties
for the fulfilment of the contract of Degges & Smith), and
not under a contract with the United States, and was recognized only as agent, attorney-in-fact, or employg of the sureties; and that under the resolution of Congress, approved
March 3d, 1857, by which the Secretary of the Treasury was
authorized to settle with all the parties, respectively, in the
contract, the claimant was not included, because he was no
party to it either originally or by substitution.
The award made by the Secretary of the Treasury, and
the payment of the money under it, were in strict accordance
with the provisions of the resolution. The secretary properly declined to settle the account between Mechlin & Alexander as to how the money so paid should be divided between
them' and their agent. Of this sum the petitioner received
$10,476, which he accepted, "under protest; "-which could
only mean saving his right to importune Congress or the
Court of Claims for more. This has occasionally proved a
valuable privilege. But something more is necessary to
recover in a'court of justice.
JUDGIMENT AFFIRMED.

Ex

PARTE BRADLEY.

1. The Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, as organized by the act
of March 3, 1863, is a different court from the criminal court as fixed

by the same act, though the latter court is held by a judge of the former.
Hence the former court has no power to disbar an attorney for a contempt of the latter.
2 An attorney cannot be disbarred for misbehavior in his office of an attorney generally, upon the returnof a rule issued against him for con-

Dec. 1868.]

DX 81ARTE

BRADLEY.

Statement of the case.
tempt of court, and without opportunity of defence or explanation -to
the flst-named charge.
8. Mandamus lies from this court to an inferior court to restore an attorneyat-law disbarred by the latter court when it had no jurisdiction in the
matter, as (er. gr.) for a contempt committed by him before another
court.

Tmis case arose out of a petition by Joseph H. Bradley,
Esq., to this court for the writ of mandamus, directed to the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, to restore him
to the office of attorney and counsellor in said court, from
which he alleged that he had been wrongfully removed by
it on the 9th of November, 1867.
It appeared that the said "Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia" had issued a rule against Mr. Bradley, reciting
certain offensive language which it alleged had been used
by Mr. Bradley, at the previous June Term of the. " criminal
court," to Mr. Justice Fisher, presiding justice, pending a
trial there for murder, and for which language the said justice, on the 10th August, entered a judgment ordering the
name of Mr. Bradley to "be stricken from the rolls of attorneys practising in this court." The rule of the Supreme
Court referred, also, to certain alleged cnduct of Mr. Bradley at the time that .Judge Fisher announced the order dis1Jarring him in the criminal court, and to a certain letter
previously delivered to that judge, who had been holding
the said court, and it concluded in these words:
"cAnd the said conduct requiring, in our opinion, investigation
by this court, it is therefore ordered, that said Toseph H. Bradley
show cause, on or before the fourth day of lNovember next, why
he should not be punished for contempt of this court by reason of
said offensive conduct and language tbwards one of its members,
and relating to the official acts of the said justice."
To this rule Mr. Bradley made a return; in which, after
expressing his satisfaction at the opportunity afforded him
by it to present his statement and version of the facts involvel in the investigation, and thus "to purge himself from
any intentional disrespect, contumely, or contempt towards

Ex PARTE BARADLEY.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

the court, or any member thereof, in the transaction referred
to," he set up as one reply, among others, that the Supreme
Court had "no power, authority, or jurisdiction to punish
for an alleged contempt committed in anotherforum."
It will be seen from this return of Mr. Bradley's to the
rule of the Supreme Court of the District issued against him,
that Iiis defence turned, so far as respected this point, upon
the question whether there was, or was not, a criminal court
in thbe District as distinguished from its Supreme Court; a
matter depending on a history and upon statutes which are
now set forth:
By an act passed in 1801,* there was organized for the
District the " Circuit Court of the District of Columbia,
vested with all the powers of the circuit courts of the United
States." It had "cognizance of all crimes and offences committed within said District, and of all cases in law and
equity," &c.
By act of 1802,t it was provided that the chief judge of
the District of Columbia should hold a District Court in and
fbr the said District, " which court shall have and exercise
within said District the same powers and jurisdiction which
are by law vested, in the district courts of the United States."
Thus stood the jurisdiction; until the passage of an act,
July 7, 1838,1 "to establish a criminal court in the District
of Columbia," for the trial of all causes and offences committed in the District. This act provided that " the said
criminal court shall have jurisdiction now held by the Circuit Co'urt for the trial and punishment of all crimes and
offences, and the recovery of all fines and fo'rfeitures and
recognizances."
It provided also for a writ of error from tne Circuit Court.
oIr any judge thereof, in any criminal case wherein final judgment had been pronounced by the "criminal court" convict..
ing any person of any crime or misdemeanor.
It was fhrther provided, by an amendment of 20th of February, 1839,§ that the judge of the criminal court "shall be
* 2 Star. at Large, 105.

S lb. 166.

5 Id. 806.

J lb. 320.

Dee.,186g.]

Ex ,PART. BRADtEY.
Statement ot the case.

authorized to make all needful rules of practice, and to provide a seal for said court-"and: also that in any case where the
party might be related to the ju'dge of the criminal. court,
then the case and the record thereof should besent to the
Circuit Court of the District, to be there tried anl determined, as if this act and the'act to which it is supplemental
had never been passed."
Thus things stood till the 3d March, 1863,* when by act
of that date the courts of the District were reorganized.
The first section of that organic act established a court, to
be called the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
which shall have generaljurisdictionin law and equity, and consist of four justices, one of which shall be chief justice.
The third section provided tbatthe Supreme Court should
possess the same powers and exercise the same jurisdiction
as was then possessed and exercised by the Circuit Courf' of
the District of Columbia.
The justices of the court (the act proceeds) shall severally
possess and exercise the jurisdiction no*-possessed and exercised by the judges of the said Circuit Court. Any one of
them may hold the District Court of the United States fdr
the District of Columbia, in the manner, and with the same
powers and jurisdiction' possessed and exercised by other district courts of the United States; and any one of the justices
may also hold- a criminal court for the trial of all crimes and
offencs arising within said district, which court shall possess
the same powers and exerdise the same juisdiction now possessed and exercised by the criminal court-of the District.
he fifth section provided that general terms of the said
Supreme Court should be held at the same times at which
terms of the Circuit Court of tho District of Columbia were
then required to be held, and at the same place; and that
district courts and criminal courts should also be held by one
of said justices at the several times.when such courts.were
thenreqdiired to be held, and at the-same place.
The sixth section provided that the Supreme Court might
* 12 Stat. at Large, 762.

Ex PARTE BRADLEY.

[Sup., Ct,

Statement of the case.

establish such rules as it might deem necessary for the regulation of the practice of the several courts organized by
the act.
The thirfe~nth, that all suits and proceedings which, at
the time the act should take.effect, should be pending in
any of th6 courts thereby abolished, should be transferred
to the courts to be established under the provisions of the
act, and might be prosecuted therein with the same effect as
they might have been in the court in which the same were
commenced.
The sixteenth, that the circuit, district, and criminal courts
of the District of Columbia were thereby abolished, and
that all laws and parts of laws relating to said courts, so far
as the same were applicable to the courts created by this act,
were thereby continued in force in respect to such courts, &c.
The Supreme Court of the District, having heard arguo
ment in support of the return made by Mr. Bradley, entered
its final order to its rule as follows:
IN THE MATTER Or JosEPH

H=.BRADLEY, Sit.

"Contempt of Court.
"Mr. Bradley having filed his answer to the rule of the court
served on him, and having been heard at the bar in support of his
answer, it is by the court ordered that, for the causes set forth in

said rule, the name of Mr. Bradley be stricken from the roll of
attorneys, solicitors, &c., authorized to practice in this court."
After the order thus made, this court (the Supreme Court
of the 'United States), on the petition of Mr. Bradley and
motion of Mr. Carlisle, granted a rule on the Supreme Court
of the District requiring them to show cause why a mandamus
should not issue for Mr. Bradley's restoration.
To the last-mentioned rule of this court, the Supreme
Court of the District- made return1. "That on the 10th of August, 1867, while Judge Fisher,
one of the justices of the Supreme Court, was holding a
criminal court in this district, the relator had been guilty

Dec- 1868.]

Ex PARTE BRADLEY.

f3-9.'

Statement of the*case.

of contemptuous language towards the said judge in the"
progress of a trial therein, and'for which the said justice
d1isbarred him from.the privileges of attorney and .counsel-.
lor of the Supreme Court.",
The return added:
"At the time the contempt was given, Judge Fisher was holding a Supreme Court, and exercising its criminal jurisdi-tioh as
such Supreme Court. There is nb crirlinal court in this district;
there is, therefore; no judge of a criminal court inthis Distric.'
The act of 3d March,,1863, abolished both the circuit 'and criniinal courts of the District of Columbia, and transferred all their
several powers and jurisdictions to the SupremeCourt created to
take their place. It prescribes in what 'manner said Su'prem e
Court shall exercise those powers and jurisdictions. One of the,
justices shall hold a criminal court,,another a circuit-court, a
third the 6pecial term, and a fo.urth a district court. Or-anyone
of the justices may, at the same time, hold two or more of these
courts. But these several justices, when holding cqurts in this
manner, 'have no authority or jurisdiction of their, owrx, for
the law has given them none. Their powers and jurisdiction
are those of the 'supreme Court;' and these it is which make A
court. The court where the powers and jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia are exercised,*is that
court. The Supreme Court of the District hb6lds the criminal
court, and the law makes one judge the court for that purpose.
The contempt in question was, therefore, a contempt of the authority of the ,Supreme: Court."

2. That "the conduct of Mr. Bradley was not merely a
contempt of the authority of the Supreme Court of this district, but was also gross misbehavior in his office of atiorney,
and that for this reason' also, his offence was cognizable by
the court in general term, irrespective of the doctrine of con-

tempts."
The return proceeded:
"It is true that the rule to show cause, ordered against him
by the court in general term, ignored the order made by "udge
Fisher, and called upon him to answer for the specified acts as
9 contempt; yet, after his return was made, the court, as it had
VOL. Vi

24

Ex PRE .BiAI

Y.

[[Sup..CCt

Opinion of the court.

the right to do, considered his offence in both these aspects, and
'ordered, that for the causes set forth in said rule, the namo-of
Mr. Bradley be stricken from the roll of attorneys,.solicitors
&c., authorized to practice in this court.'"
3. "Because- Mr. Bradley was removed only after due
notice had been served upon him, and he had been heard
in defence, and after mature consideration by the court.
That the said order of the court was a judgment of the
court in regard to a matter within its own exclusive jurisdiction,
and not subject to review in any other court; and especially not
in this form of proceeding."
The case was elaborately argued by Mr.P. Phillips(with whom
was Mr. Carlisle)for the relator. No counsel appearedin 6ehalf
of the Supreme Court of the District,which rested on its return;
a document in form argumentative.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
One of the grounds set up in the returnto the rule to show
,cause is, that on the 10th of August, 1867, while Judge
Fisher, one of the justices of the Supreme Court, was holding a 'criminal court in this district, the relator had been
guilty of contemptuous language towards the said judge in
the progress of a trial therein, and for which the said justice
disbarred him from the privileges of attorney and counsellor
of the Supreme Court. That, at the time of the committing
of the contempt, Judge Fisher was holding, not a criminal,
but a Supreffie Court, and exercising its criminal jurisdiction
as such: that there is no criminal court in this district, anti,
therefore, no judge of a criminal court; and that the contempt committed before the judge was a contempt of the
Supreme Court. That the act of March 3d, 1863, abolished
both the circuit and criminal courts of the district, and conferred all their powers and jurisdiction upon the Supreme
Court created by fhe act.
We thi-nk a reference to this act of March 3d, 1863, reorganizing the courts in this district, will show that this is
an erroneou3 construction. It will be seen, by reference to

Dec. 1868.]

Ex

PARTE BRADLEY.

Opinion of the court.

this Iorganic act, that the new Supreme Court of this district
has conferred upon it only the same powers and jurisdiction
as was possessed by the circuit court just abolished. This
circuit court possessed, at the time, no original criminaljurisdiction whatever, nor had it, since the 7th of July, 1888; for
an act of that date established a criminal court, upon which
was conferred all the criminal jurisdiction of the district.
A writ of error lies from the circuit court to this criminal
court, and, doubtless, does from the present Supreme Court
to the criminal court of the district.
The circuit court had originally been invested with all the
powers of a district court of the United States; but these
were taken from it in 1802, and a district court established
within the district, to be held by the chief justice of the
circuit court. These courts, the district and criminal, are
preserved by the act of 1863 reorganizing the courts, and
are to be held in the same manner, and with the same
powers and jurisdiction,-the one as possessed by the district
courts of the United States, and the other as possessed by
the old crimiral court of the district. The only change
made is, that instead of each court having a judge or judges
appointed to hold it, any justice of the Supreme Court may
hold the same. Under the old law, 20th of February, 1839,
in case of the inability of the judge of the criminal court to
hold tne same, one of the judges of the circuit was authorized to hold it
It is plain, therefore, that, according to a true construction of the act of 1863, reorganizing the courts of this district, the Supreme Court not only possesses no jurisdiction
in criminal cases, except in an appellate form, but that there
is established a separate and independent court, invested
with all the criminal jurisdiction, to hear and punish cinies
and offences within the district. And, hence, one of the
grounds, if not the principal one, upon which the return
places the right and power to disbar the relator, fails; for"
we do not understand the judges of 'the court below as -contending that, if Judge Fisher, at the time of the conduct
and wor Is spoken by the relator before him, or in his pres-

Ex

PARTE BRADLEY.

[Sup. C'.

Opinibn of the coart.

eiice, was not holding the Supreme Court of the district, but
was holding a court distinct from the Supreme Court, that
they possessed any power or jurisdiction over the subject of
this contempt as complained of; otherwise the case would
present the anomalous proceeding of one cou'rt taking cognizance of an alleged contempt committed b~fore and against
another court, which possessed ample powers itself to take
care of its own dignity and punish the offender. Under such
circumstances, and in this posture of the case, it is plain that
no authority or power existed in the Supreme Court to punish for the contempt thus committed, even without reference
to the act 9 f Congress of 1831,* which in express terms restricts the power, except for "misbehavior in the presence
of said courts, or so near thereto as to obstruct the administration of justice."
Another ground relied on in the return for disbarring the
relator is, that his conduct was not merely a contempt of the
authority of the Supreme Court, but was, also, gross misbehavior in his office as an attorney generally, and that, for
this reason also, his offence was cognizable by the court in
general term, and punishable irrespective of the doctrine of
contempts. The judges admit that the rule to show cause
ordered against him at the general term, ignored the order
made by Judge Fisher disbarring the relator, and called
upon him to answer simply for the act and conduct specified
as for a contempt; yet they insist that, after the return of
the relator to the rule in answering the contempt, they had
a right, in considering the answer, if any other offence appeared therein cognizable by the court, it was competent to
take notice of it, and inflict punishment accordingly.
We cannot assent to this view. It assumes the broad
proposition, that the attorney may be called upon to answer
an offence specified, and, when the answer comes in, without Any further notice or opportunity of defence or explana.
tion, punish him for another and distinct offbnce. Certainly
no argument can be necessary to refute such a proposition.
* j 1.

Dec. 1868.]

Ex

PA1.TE BRADLEY.

Opinion of the court.

It violates the commonest and most familiar principles of
'criminal jurisprudence. It is true, where a contempt is
committed in the presence of the court, no other notice, is
usually necessary; but a proceeding to punish an attorney
generally for misbehhvior' in his office, or for any particular
instance ofi misbehavior, stands- on very different ground.
The rule to show cause is in the record. After reciting the.
offensive language and condfict complained of (all 'of which
occurred before Judg 9 Fisher), it concludes in these words:
"And said conduct and language requiring, in our opinion,
investigation by this court, it is therefore ordered, that said
Joseph H. Bradley show cause, on or before the fourth day
of November next, why he'should not be- punished for contempt of this court by reason of said offensive conduct-and
language towards one of its members, and relating to the official acts of the said justice." It will be seen that the offence
charged against the relator, and for which he was called
.upon to answer, was direct and specific, one well known to
"the law and the proceedings of courts,-a contempt of the
Supreme Court. And the offence being thus specified, he
was fully advised'of the matters against which he was called
upon to defend, and enabled to prepare his defence accordingly. That the relator so understood the charge is apparent
from his answer, iii which he expresses his satisfaction at
the opportunity, a'fbrded him to present to the court-his
account of the facts involved' in the case, and "to purge
himself from any intentional disrespeqt, contumely, or contempt towards the court, or any member thereof, in the
transactions referred to."
The order entered on the minutes of the court, after the
answer to the rule to show cause, inflicting the punishment,
confirms this view. It is found in the record, and is headed
as follows:
"In the matter of .Toseph IT.Bradley, Sr.-Gontertpt of court."
'Mr. Bradley having filed his answer to the rule of court
served on him, and having been heard'at the bar in support
of his answer,'it is by the court ordered, that for the cause,9

EX PARTE BRADLEY.

[Sup. Cr.

Opinion of the court.

set forth in said rule, the name of Mr. Bradley be stricken
from the roll of atiorneys. solicitors, &c., authorized to practice in this court."
The order, or judgment, seems to be in strict conformity
to the offence charged in the rule to show cause, namely,
for contempt of court.
'We do not doubt the power of the court to punish attorneys as officers of the same, for misbehavior in the practice
of the profession. This power'has been recognized and
enforced ever since the organization of courts, and the admission of attorneys to practice therein. If guilty of fraud
aginsb their clients, or of stirring up litigation by corrupt
devices, or using the forms of lahw to further the ends of
injustice; in fine, for the commission of any qther qct of
official or personal dishonesty and oppression, they become
subject to the summary jurisdiction of the court. Indeed, in
every instance where an attorney is cbared by affidavit with
fraud or malpractice in his profession, contrary to the prin,ciples of justice and common honesty, the court, on motion,
will order him to appear and answer, and deal with -him according as the facts may appear in the case. But, this is a
distinct head of proceeding from that of contempt of court,
or of the members thereof, committed in open court, or in
immediate view and presence, tending to interrupt its proceedings, or to impair the respect due to its authority. This
'distinction is recognized in the act of 1831, already referred
to, which, after providing for personal cqntempt in presence
of the court, authorizes attachments to issue, and summary
punishment to be inflicted, for "the misbehavior of the offi
cers of said courts in their official transactions."
Without lpursuing this branch of the case further, our conclusion isFirst. That the judges of the court below exceeded their
authority in punishing the relator for a contempt of-that
court on account of contemptuous conduct and, language before the Criminal Court of the District, or in the presence
of the judge of the same.

Dee.

D Ex PARThlBRADLUI.
Opinion of the, court.*

Second. That they possessed no power to punish him,.
upon an ex parte proceeding, Without notice or opportunity
of defence or explanation for misbehavior, or for any particular instance of the same generally in hip'office as attorney
of the court, as claimed in the words of the return, "irrespective of the doctrine of ontempts."

-

I The only remaining question is, whether or not, a writ
of mandamus from this court is the appropriate remedy for
the wrong complained' of. This question' has already been
answered by Chief Justice. Marshall, who delivered the
opinion of the court in Exparte Grane.* That was an application for a mandamus to, the Circuit Court of the United.
States for the Southern District of New Yqrk, commanding
the court to review the seftlement 'of several bills of exceptions. The learned Chief Justice observes: "A doubt has
been suggested respecting the power of the court to, issue
the writ. 'The question was not discussed at the bar, but
has been considered by the judges. It is proper," he observes, "that it 'should be settled, and the opinion of the
court announced. -We have determined that the power exists." He then refers to thb definition and office of tfie writ
,as known to th6 common law in England, and to the language of Blackstone in speaking of it, as follows: "That
it issues to the judges of any inferior court, commanding
them to do. justice, according to the powers oftheir office,
whenever the same is delayed. For it is the peculiar business of the Court of King's Bench to superintend all other
•inferir tribunals,' and therein to enforce the due exercise'
of those judicial or ministerial powers with, which the crown
or the legislature have invested them; and this, not only by
restraining their excesses, but also by quickening their negligence, and obviating the denial of justice.' The Chief Justice then refers to the 13th section of the judicial act, which
enacts that the Supreme Court shall 'have power to issue
writs of prohibition to the. District Courts when proceeding
* 5 Peters, 190

] X PARTE BRADLEY.

[Slip. (Jr.

Opinion of the court.

as courts of admiralty and maritime jurisliction; and writs of
mandamus, in cases warranted by the principles and usages
of law, to any courts appointed or persons holding offices
under the authority of the United States. "A mandamus
to an officer," he observes, "is held to be the exercise of
original jurisdiction; but a mandamus to an inferior court
of the United States is in the nature of appellate jurisdiction."
Two of the judges dissented, and one of them, Mr. Justice
Baldwin, delivered an elaborate opinion. adverse to the decision, in which every objection to the jurisdiction is very
forcibly stated. Since this decision the question has been
regarded at rest, as wili'be seen from many cases in our reports, to some of which we have referred.*
This writ is applicable only in the supervision of the proceedings of inferior courts, in cases where there is a legal
right, without any existing legal remedy. It is upon this
ground that the remedy has been applied frora an early day,
indeed, since the organization of courts and the admission
of attorneys to practice therein down to the present time, to
correct the abuses of the inferior courts in summary proceedings against their officers, and especially against the attorneys
and counsellors of the courts. The order disbarring them,
or subjectiug them to fine or imprisonment, is not reviewable by writ of er?3r, it not being a judgment in the sense of
the law for which this writ will lie. Without, therefore, the
use of the writ of mandamus, however flagrant the wrong
committed against these officers, they would be destitute of
any redress. The attorney or counsellor, disbarred from
caprice, prejudice, or passion, and thus suddenly ' deprived
of thb only means of an honorable support of himself and
family, upon the contrary doctrine contended for, would be
utterly remediless.
It is true that this renedy, even, when liberally expounded,
affords a far less effectual security to the occupation of attor*Ex
parte Bradstreet, 7 Peters, 634; Insurance (ompany v. Wilson's
Heirs, 8 Id. 291 ; Stafford v. Union Bank, 17 Howari, 275; United States v
Gomez, 3 Wallace, 753.

Dec.'1868.]

Ex PARTE, BRADLEY. ,

-

377

Opinion of the court.

ney than is 'extended to that of every other classii the community. " For we agree that this writ does not le 'to control
the judicial discreiion of 'the,judge 'or court; and hence,
where the act complained of rested in the exercise of this
discretion, the-remedy fails.
But this discretion is not unlimited, for if it be exercikde
with inanifest injustice, the Court of Ring's Bench will command its due exercise.* It must be a sound discretion, and
apcording to law. As spId by Chief Justice Taney, in .x
parte Secombe,t 'The power, however, is-not an arbitrary
And despotic one, to be exercised at the pleasure of the court,
or from passion, prejudice, or personal hostility." And by
Chief Justice Marshall,'in .Exparte Burr:. "The court is
not inclined to interpdse, unless it were'in a .case where theI
conduct of the Circuit or District Court was- irregular, or
.was flagrantly improper."
We are not concerned, however, to exainine in the present
case how fAr this court would inquire into any irregularities
or excesses of the couit below in the -exercise of its discretion in making the order against the relator, as our decision
is not t all dependent upon that question, W hatever views
may be entertained concerning it, they'are wholly imumatei.ial and'unimportant'ire. The ground of our decision upon
this branch of the case is, that the court below bad no jurisdiction to disbar the relator for a contempt cmmitted before
another court. The contrary must be maintained before this
order can be upheld and the writ of mandamus-denied. No
amount of judicial discretion of a court can supply a defect
or want of jurisdiction in the case.. The subject-matter is
.not before it; the proceeding:is doram' non judice and 'void.
Now, this want of jurisdiction of the inferior court in a summary proceeding to remove an officer of the c6urt, or, disbar
an attorney or counsel!or,.js .oneof 'the specific'cases inwhiqh,
this writ is the appropriate remedy. We.have already een,
is issued to, the
from the definition and offle of it, that it,
inferior courts "to enforce.the due exercise of those judicial
* Tapping on .Mandamus, 13, 14.

j 19 Howard, 13.

$ 9 Wheaton, 580

EX PARTE BRADLEY.

'[SkI.P. (11.

Opinion of the court.

or ministerial powers-with which the crown or legislature
have invested them; and this, not only by restraining their
excesses, but also by quickening their negligence and obviating their denial of justice."* The same principle is also
found stated with more fulness in Bacon's Abridgment, title
'- Mandamus," t
"to restrain them (inferior courts) within
their bounds, and compel them to execute their jurisdiction,
whether such jurisdiction arises by charter, &c., being in
subsidium justicie."IThe same principle is also stated by Chief Justice Marshall in Ex parte Burr. "There is then," he observes, "no
irregularity in the mode of proceeding which would justify
the interposition of this court. It could only interpose on
the ground that the Circuit Court had clearly exceeded its
powers, or, had decided erroneously on the testimony." The
ease of Burr was malpractice and stirring up litigation, to
the disturbance and oppression of the community. The
jurisdiction was inquestionable. So in Ex parte Secombe,
Chief Justice Taney, after showing that the question was
one of judicial discretion, observes, "We are not aware of
any case where a mandamus has issued to an inferior tribunal, corlimauding it to reverse or amend its decisiou, when
the decision was in its nature a judicial act, aud within
the scope of its jurisdiction and discretiun." The case of
Secombe was for a contempt-in open court, and the jurisdiction undoubted. So was the case of illinghast v. Conkling,
referred to by the Chief Justice in his opinion. This writ
has been issued in numerous cases by the King's Bench, in
England, to inferior court6 to restore attorneys wrongfully
removed. The cases are collected by Mr. Tapping.§ One
of them was the case of an attorney suspended from practicing in the courts of the county palatine of Chester. The
reason given for issuing this writ is, that the office is of
* 8 Blackstono's Com. 111.

t Letter D., p. 273.
: See also Bacon, letter E., p. 278; and Tapping on Mandamus, p. 103, and
the cases there cited.
011 Mandamus, 44.

Dec. 1868.]

EX PARTE BRADLEY.

379,

Opnioiiof Miller, J., dissenting.

public concern, and regards the administration of justice.
and because there is no other-remedy.*
Cases are found also in 'many.of the cou'ts "of the States.
A mong the more recent are fhree cases (in Caflifornia;t in
'In
'New York'I, in Pennsylvaniv. Virginia, afd 'la'bama.
several of the cases 'the 'remedy faiid, as in Ex parte Burr,
Secombd, and Wilinghast;the-curt having held, in the cases,
'that the questions involved weke ofjidicial discretion. ' But
the proceeding is admlitted to be ,the recognized remedy.
when the .case is outside of the. exercise'6f fhi discretion,
and is one of irregularity, or against law, or of flagrant injustice, or without, jurisdiction.
. It'will be seen that this opinion is wholly iriespective of
the merit of.this Utihappy controversy between the relptor
and- Judge-Fisher, as the view we have taken of the.'case
does not in .any respect involve this question.- We can only
regret the cgntrovOrsy, as bet en gentlemen of the highest
respectability and .honor, and express -the: hope that reflec'tion,,forbearance, andatbe generous iip lses tbt emin~eitly
belong to the members of their profession, may lead to their
natural fruits,-reonciliation.a dA"i utu{J/and fraterndl regard.
Our donclusion is, that'a peremptory writ of
M.AO.iAMUS

MUST tSSUE.

Mr. Justice MILLER, 8issentting.
J am of opinion that this coupt, has "nojurisdiction of the'
case in which it has just ordered the 'writ of inanda uis, o
issue.
There are in the repbrts of bur decisions three appjications
before this for the writ. of mandamus to be igsujd by this.
court to restore attorneys to plces at the bar froni which they
had been expelled by Federal courts. The Arst of these is
* White's ease, 6 Modern, 18, per Holt; Leigh's case, 3 Id. 335; S. -0
Carthaw, 169, 170..
- People v. Turner, 1 Oalifornia, 143, 188, 190.
I People v. Justices, 1 Johnson's Cases. 181.

Ex

[Sup. Ct.

PARTE BRADLEY.

Opinion of Miller, J., dissenting.

the case of Burr.*

The opinion delivered by Chief Justice

Mqrshall expressos great doubt on the part of the court as to
its right to interfere, and resting *mainly on that doubt, and
partly on the fact that the exclusion from practice was temporary, and would soon expire, the application was refused.
In the other two cases, namely, Tillinghasl v. Conkling, and
Ex parte Secombe, the application was denied, and the denial
placed explicitly on the ground that this court has no power
to revise the decisions of the inferior courts on this subject
by writ of mandamus.t.
In delivering the opinion of the court in the latter case,
Chief Justice Taney said, that "in the case of Tillinghast v.
Conkling, which came beidore this court at the January Term,
1827, a similar motion was overruled. The case is net reported, but a brief written opinion remains in the files of the
court, in which the court says that the motion is overruled
upon the ground that it had not jurisdiction of the case."
In the principal case the court said: "It is fiot necessary to
inquire whether this decision of the Territorial court (disbarring Secombe) can be revised here in any other form of
proceeding. The court are of opinion that he is not entitled
to a remedy by mandamus. . . It cannot'be reviewed or reversed in this forhi of proceeding, however erroneous it may
be, or supposed to be. And we are not aware of any case
where a mandamus was issued to an inferior tribunal, commanding it to'reverse or'annul its decision, where the decision vas in its nature judicial, and within the scope of its
jurisdiction and discretion."
The attempt to distinguish the case now under consideration from those just cited, on the ground that in the present
case the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia was
acting without jurisdiction, is in my judgment equally without foundation in the fact asserted, and in the law of the
case if the fact existed.
1. That court had jurisdiction of the person of Mr. Bradley,
because he was a resident of the District of Columbia, and
* 9 Wheaton, 529,

"t 19 Howard, 9.

Dec. 1868.],

EX PAhTEBPADJGEY.

Opinion of Miller, J.,.dissenting.

because he received notice of the .proceeding, and submitted
himself 'to the court by depending on the merits.
2. It bad jurisdiction of the offence'charged, namely, 'a
contemnpt of the court whose judgment we are reviewing. _ I
say this advisedly, because the hotice which called upua- him
to answer charged him in distinct terms with a contempt of
the Supreme Court of the District, though much of the argument ofcounsel goes upon the hypothesis that the offence
fohwhieh he was disbarFed was an offnce against the Crimi;,
nal C6urt, and not the Suhreme Court..
3. That court had undoubted authority to punish contempt
by expelling the guilty party from 'its bar.
If the court had jurisdiction-of the party and of the offence
charged, and had a right to punish-such offence by the judgment which was rendered in thi case, what-element of jurisdiction is wanting?
But if we concede that the,Supreme Court of the District
exceeded its authority in this case, I know of no act of Congress, nor any principle established by previous decisiois'of
this court, which authorizes us to interfere by writ of. Inan-':
damus. -The argument in favor of such authority is derived
from the analogy supposed to exist between the present case
afid others in which the court has held that-the writ may be
issued in hid of its appe lAte jurisdiction, as Ex parte Irane,*
.Ex-pare . oytt and by the-praCtice in the Court 'of Kipg's
Bench, in England, and in some of our State coarts.
In regard to the practice in the King's Bench and in the
State courts, I' shall dttempt to show presently that this
court possesses no such general supervisory power over
inferipr Federal courts as belongs to the King's Bench, and
as belongs generally to the appellate tribunals of the States.
The ippellate power of this court is strictly limited to cases
provided for by act of 'Congress.
The case of Cranet was one which this court had an undoubted right to review. ,It was alleged that this right was
,obstructed by the refusal of the judge of the Circuit Court
* 5 Peters, 193.

t 13,Id. 291.

$ 6 Id. 190.

382

VX PASTE BRADLEY.

'[Sup..Ct.

Opinion of Miller, J., dissenting.

to sign a bill of exception's, and the court held that in such
a case he might be compelled, by the writ of mandamus, to
sign a truthful and proper bill of exceptions.
It was not necessary to cite this case and others, in which
the court refused to grant the writ of mandamus,, to show
that 'Under proper circumstances it may issue. In Ex pare
Milwaukee Railroad Company* the court ordered a writ of
mandamus to issue to the judges of the Circuit Court, because, in the language of the court, "the petitioner has
presented a case calling for the exercise of the supervisory
power of this court over the Circuit Court, which can only
be made effectual by a writ of mandamus." And this is
the true doctrine on which the use of the writ is founded;
and the sound construction of the 13th section of the Judiciary Act.
The case of Hoyt,t cited by counsel for petitioner, is in
strong confirmation ofthis. Referring to the language of
that section ihe court says, .", The present applicafion is not
warranted by any-such-princip.es dnd usages, of law. It is
neither more nor less than an application for an order to
reverse the solemn judgment of the district judge in a matter
clearly within the jurisdiction of the court, and to substitute
another judgment in its stead." Precisely what is asked in
the present case.
The case of Tobias Watkins I is very analogous to the one
before us, and in construing the power of this court in regard
to the writ of habeas corpus, decides principlep which appear
to me to be in direct conflict with the views advanced by the
court in the opinion just read. In that case, Watkins had
been in licted, tried, and sentenced, to imprisonment by the
Circuit Court of the District of Columbia. An application
was made to this. court for a writ of. habeas corpus, on the
ground that the indictment charged no offence of which that
court had cognizance. But, conceding this to be true, and
answering the case made by the petition, the court, by Marshall, C. J., asks: "With what propriety can this court look
5 Wallace, 825.

t- 13 Peters, 291.

1C3 1b. 193.

Dede-t868']

Ex.

PIARTF, Bit*D-DPY.-'

'383

Opinion of Millei J., dissent-g..

into the indictment? We have no power,r he says; "to examine the proceedings on a writ of error, and it would 'be
under, color of a 'tyrit to liberat.' ai individual
strange if,
from unlawful imprisonment, we could substantihlly reverse
a judgment, which the law has'placed beyond our reach.
An imprisonment under a"judgment cannot be unlawful
unless that judgment be an absolute' nillity,;, and. it cannot
be a nullity if the court has general jurisdiction of the subjecti, although it be erroneous."' "The law trusts that court
with the whole subject, and has not 'confided to this court
any power of revising its decisions. We cannot usurp that
power by the instrumentality of the writ of habeas corpus."
And, -finally, after examining the cases in which this'court
,had previously'issued the writ, of habeas corpus, he says that
they are "no authority for inquiring into the judgmen'fs of
'a court of general criminal jurisdiction, and regarding them
as nullities, if,
in our opinion, the qourt has misconstrued
the law, and has pronounced an offence to be'punishable
criminally- which we' may think is not."
The case madthby Mr. Bradley'is much weaker than the
case of Watkins, because, in the latter, the court was. only
asked to' determine, on the face of the indictment, whether
the offence charged was cognizable by the Circuit Court.
Here the charge of a contempt, of which .the court below
had jurisdiction, is clear; but.4 we are told that, on looking
into the testimony, we shall find that the petitioner was ihot
guilty of a contempt of that court, but of another *court.
J'udge Mahall and' the court over~which he,presided refused to look. beyond the judgment,' even' at the indictment.
Here the court. looks beyond the judgment, anid beyond
the notice which charges the offence, aid inquires into the
evidence on which the party is convicted; arid because that
is, in tAe opinion of' this court, insufficient, if is held that
tha court which tried the dase had no jurisdiction. This is
to me a new and dangerous-test of jurisdiction.
But with all due respect to my brethren of the majority
of the court, it seems to 'me that their judgment in this case
is not onlyunsupp rted by the cases relied on, and in conflict

EX PARTE BRADLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion, of Miller, J., dissenting.

with the cases of Tillinghasp and Secombe, decided by this
court directly on the same point, but it is at war with the
settled doctrine of the court on the general pubject of its
appellate jurisdiction.
The Constitution* declareg that the appellate" power of
this court is subject to such exceptions, qnd is to be exercised under such regulations as Congress shall make.
Chief Justice Ellsworth, construing this clause of the Constitution, in the case of Wiscart v- Dauchy,t said: "If Congress has'provided no rule to regulate our proceedings, we
cannotexercise an appellate jurisdiction; and if the rule is
provided, we cannot depart from it." And the court afterwards, by Chief Justice Marshall, said in substance, that if
Congress in establishing the Supreme Court, had not described itk jurisdiction, it6 general power in reviewing Tthe
decisions of other Federal courts could not be denied. But
tbe fact that Congress had described its jurisdiction by affirmative language, must be understood as a regulation under
the Constitution, prohibiting the exercise of other powers
than those described.4
In United SlaLes v. Nourse,§ a case of summary proceedings
before the district-judge under the revenue law, which provided that an appeal might be allowed to claimant by a
judge of the SupreMe Court, it was said that, "as this special mode is pointed out by which an appeal may be taken,
it negatives the right of an appeal in any other manner ;"

and it was further said that the United States had no right
appeal, because none was given by the act which authorized the proceeding.
And finally, in the case of Barry v. Mereein,I this court,
b3 Chief Justice Taney; declared emphatically that, "by the
Constitution' of the United States the Supreme Court possesses no appellate power in any case unless conferred upon

-of

it by act of Congress; nor can it be exercised in any other
t 3 Dallas, 321.
Art. III, 2.
United States v. More, 3 Cranch, 159; Durousseau v. United States, 6
U
td. 307.
I 5 Howard, 103.
8 6 Peters; 470.

Dele. 1868..]

EX PARTE BRADLEY.
Opinion of Miller, J., dissenting.

mode of proceeding than %hatwhich the law prescribes."
This case and the case of United States v. Moore were deci~ied'
in direct reference to the jurisdiction of this court over those
of the District of Columbia; and in the latter, Judge Marshll'uses this unmistakable language: "This court, there-.
fore, will only review those judgments of the Circuit Court
of Columbia, a power to re-examine which is expressly given
by Jaw."
'Let us see, then, what regulations Congress has niade in
regard to our jurisdiction over the Icourts of the District of
Columbia.
The Supreme Court of the District, whose judgment is
attempted to be brought into review here, was established"
by the act of March 3, 1863. The only clause looking to a.
revision of the decisions of that court is section -11,.which
eilacts "'that any final judgment, order, or decree of said
court may be re-examined and reversed or affirmed in the
Supreme Court of the United States, upon writ of error.or
appeal, in the same cases and in like manner as is now .provided by law in reference to final judgments, orders, and
decrees of the Circuit Court of the United States foil the
District of Columbia." The act on which our jurisdiction
over this Circuit Courtdepended is that of February 27, 1801.
The 8th section of that act provides that "any final judgment, order, or decree of said Circuit Court, wherein the,
matter in dispute shall exceed-the value of one hundred dollars" (now bne thousand)," may be re-examined and reversed
or affirmed in t~he Supreme Court of the United States by
writ of error or appeal." ,
Here then is no provision for any other modes of review
than by appeal and.by -writof error; but there is a limitation
of the use bof these modes to cases-in which the matter in
dispute shall exceed one thousand dollars. Where then is
there any authority for a review by writ of mandamus? And
where is there any regulation authorizing a review of this
case by any mode whatever?
For the counsel of petitioner in this case does not claim
that the matter in dispute exceeds a thousand: dollars, or has
VOL. vir.

25

386

RIDDLESBAROER V. HARTFORD LSURANCE Co.

[Sup. (1t.

Statement of the case.

any moneyed value. Such a claim would be fatal to the relief he asks, because it would show that it is a proper case
for a writ of error, and therefore a mandamus will not lie.
We have repeatedly held that the writ of mandamus can.
not be made to perform the functions of a writ of error.
In the recent case of the C~mmissioner v. Whiteley,* the following language was used without dissent: "The principles
of the law relating to the remedy by mandamus are well
settled. It lies when thete is a refusal to perform a mihisterial act involving no exercise of judgment or discretion..
. . . It lies when the exercise of judgment and discretion
are involved, and the officer refuses to decide, provided that
ifhe decided, the aggrieved party could have his decision reviewed
by another tribunal. . . . It is applicable only in these two
classes of cases. It cannot be made to perform the functions
of a writ of error."
And to the same purpose are Ex parte Hoytt and Ex parte
Taylor.1
Mr. Justice SWAYNE, not having heard the argument,
took no part in the judgment.

RIDDLESBARGER V.

HARTFORD INSURANCE

COMPANY.

1. A condition in a policy of fire insurance that no action against the insurers, for the recovery of any claim upon the policy, shall be sustained,
unless commenced within twelve months after the loss shall have occurred, and that the lapse of this period shall be conclusive evidence
against the validity of any claim asserted, if an action for its enforcement be subsequently commenced, is not against the policy of the statute
of limitations, and is valid.
2. The action mentioned in the condition which must be commenced within
the twelve months, is the one which is prosecuted to judgment. The
failure of a previous action from any cause cannot alter the case;
although such previous action was commenced within the period prescribed.

ERtOR to

the Circuit Court for Missouri.

This was an action against the Hartford Insurance Com*4

Wallace, 524.

t- 13 Peters. 279.

1 14 Howard, 8.

