IRAILROAD COMPANY V. HOWARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

them, except in the Supreme Court of Indiana,* which
followed an adverse decision of Mr. Justice McLean in the
Circuit Court for the district of that State.t Its validity has
also been sustained by Mr. Justice Nelson in the Circuit
Court for the District of Connecticut.1
The commencement,
We have no doubt of its validity
period designated
the
therefore, of the present action within
and this
recovery;
plaintiff's
was a condition essential to the
condition was not affected by the fact that the action, which
was dismissed, had been commenced within that period.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HOWARD.
1. -Under the laws of Iowa, a railroad company, having power to issue its
own bonds in order to make its road, may guaranty the bonds of cities
and counties which have been lawfully issued, and are used as the means
of accomplishing the same end.
2. A sale under foreclosure of mortgage of an insolvent railroad company,
expedited and made advantageous bv an arrangement between the mortgagees and the stockholders, under which arrangement the mortgagees,
according to their order, got more or less of their debt (100 to 30 per
cent.), and the stockholders of the company the residue of the proceeds
-a fraction (16 per cent.) of the par of their stock-held fraudulent as
against general creditors not secured by the mortgage, and this although
the road was mortgaged far above its value, and on a sale in open
market did not bring near enough to pay even the mortgage debts; so
Penn~ylvania State, 449; Brown and Wife r. Savannah Insurance Company, 24 Georgia, 101, Portage Insurance Company v. West, 6 Ohio State,
602; Amesbury v. Bowditch Insurance Company, 6 Gray, 603, Fullam v.
New York Insurance Company 7 Gray, 61 Carter v. Humboldt, 12 Iowa,
287, Stout v. City Insurance Company Id. 371, Ripley v. .Etna In-urance Company, 29 Barbour, 552, Gooden v. Amoskeag Qompany, 20 New
Hampshire, 73, Brown v. Roger Williams Company, 5 Rhode Island,,394;
Brown v. Roger Williams Company, 7 Id. 301, Ames v. New York Insurance Company, 4 Kernan, 253.
* The Eagle Insurance Company v. Lafayette Insurance Company, 9 I..
liana, 443.
t French v. Lafayette Insurance Company, 5 McLean, 461.
$ Cray v. Hartford Insurance Company, 1 Blatchford, 280.

Dec. 1868.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HOWARD.
Statement of the case.

8.

4.

5.

6.

that in fact, if there had been an ordinary foreclosure, and one independent of all arrangement between the mortgagees and the stockholders, the whale proceeds of sale would have belonged to the mortgagees.
A sale by a railroad corporation not authorized in its corporate capacity
to make it, may be yet validly carried into effect by the consent of all
parties interested in the subject-matter of it.
Stockholders in a corporation need not be individually made parties ihi a
creditor's suit where their interest is fully represented both by the railroad company and by a committee chosen and appointed by them.
Contracts are not necessarily negotiable because by their terms they enure
to the benefit of the bearer. Hence a receipt by which a person acknowledges that he has received from another named so many shares of stock
in a specified corporation, entitling the bearer to so many dollars in
certain bonds to be issued, is not free, in the handi of a transferee, from
equities which would have affected it in the hands of the original recipient.
The fact that a creditor has a remedy at law- against a principal debtor,
does not prevent him, after the issue in vain of execution against such
principal, from proceeding in equity against a guarantor.

ArPEAL from the Circuit Court for Iowa. The case was
thus
The Mississippi iud Missouri Railroad Company-a company in Iowa, and by the laws of that State, having power
to issue its bonds to carry into effect the purposes for which
it was created-was incumbered by five several mortgages,
given to secure bonds which it had executed, amounting,
with arrears of interest, to $7,000,000; a sum greatly beyond what the road was worth. The interest was largely in
arrears, and the company wAs insolvent. The Chicago and
Rock Island Railroad Company-another company-made
overtures for the purchase of the former road, offering to
give for it $5,500,000, a sum more than it was worth, though,
as just said, much less than what it owed. But the offer
was contingent upon getting a title at once. The directors
of the insolvent road had power, under its charter, to sell'it
on payment of its debts, and with the assent of two-thirds
of its stockholders, but the only mode to make a satistactory title which now seemed possible, was by a foreclosure
under one of the mortgages, a matter which it was supposed, apparently, that it might be in the power of the stock-

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HOWARD.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

holders, by the interpositioll. of difficulties, to delay Under
these circumstances, a meeting of the holders of the stock and
of the various classes of mortgage bonds of the company was
called, to determine what should be done with the road.
And it was resolved, at this meeting, to sell the road for the
$5,o00,000 offered, provided, that the purchase-money be distributed among the bondholders and stockholders of the company, according to a plan or "scale" specified, by which the
different classes of bondholders were to be paid certain specified amounts, varying from 100 to 30 per cent. of the amount
of their bonds, and the stockholders were to receive 16 per cent.
of the par value of their stock, amounting to $552.400. A committee was appointed to arrange the details of the sale, and
the mode of payment with the purchasing company, and the
committee was instructed "to make an arrangement with
some trust company to receive the bonds and stock of the
parties assenting and issue certificates therefor, setting forth
what the holder thereof is entitled to receive."
In pursuance of these resolutions, a written contract was
made between the Mississippi and Missouri Railroad Company and the purchasing company, which in its caption was
stated to be made "in pursuance of resolutions passed by
the meeting of the bondholders and stockholders" of the former
company, by which it was agreed,
1. That the 3fississippi and Missouri Company "will take the
proper steps, with all possible despatch, to cause the mortgages
upon its line of road," &c., &c., "to be foreclosed, and its entire
property, real and personal, sold, so that the purchaser shall be
able to transfer a perfect and unincumbered title to such incorporated company as the Chicago and Rock Island Railroad Company may designate to become the purchaser and owner thereof."
2. That the Chicago and Rock Island Company shall cause a
company to be incorporated under the general law of Iowa,
which shall purchase the said property for $5,500,000, and the
Mississippi and lissouri Company agree that the purchaser, at
the foreclosure sale, shall sell to such company so to be incorpo.
rated, '(for the sum and upon the terms herein stated and set
forth."

bec. 1868.]

RAILROAD COMPANY v. HOWARD.
Statement of the case.

The committee appointed at the meeting, to carry into
effect the sale of the road, made arrangements as instructed
by the resolution appointing them with the Union Trust
Company of New York, to act as their agent to receive from
the holders of bonds and stock, assenting to. the plan agreed
on, their bonds and stock certificates, and to give receipts to
them therefor. A written agreement was subscribed by the
committee, and by each party so depositing bonds or stook,
entitled, "Agreement made between A. B., and other subscribing holders.of the stock and bonds of the Mississippi and
Missouri Railroad Company of the first part, and G. W S.,
J. E., '&c. (the committee), of the second part." By this instrument (after reciting the action of the meeting, and the

agreement of sale between the two railroad companies, "in
furtherance of" the resolutions of the meeting; and that the
committee to effectuate this clearance and sale were about to
foreclose the various mortgages, in, order subsequently to
convey a clear title to the purchaser or purchasers thereof )
the subscribing bond and stock holders ratified and confirmed the authority given to the committee by the meeting,
and consented to the foreclosure of mortgages, and sale of
the Mississippi and Missouri Road thereunder; and to surrender their bonds and stock certificates,on signing the agreement, to the Union Trust Company, as agent of the committee, to be used in carrying out the sale and foreclosure.
The committee agreed to use all diligence in foreclosing;
to convey the road, after foreclosure, "as more fully set forth
in the agreement between the two companies for $5,500,000,
and to distribute the-same among the holders of stock and
bonds, according to the follqwing scale, viz." (specifying
the amounts to be paid on the different classes of bonds, and
the 16 per cent. to the stockholders, as agreed on ap the
meeting), the amounts to be paid in the form in which the
proceeds of sale were received, and to be either money, or
bonds secured as provided in agreement of sale between the,
railroad companies.
The trust -company issued certificates to the depositors
of stock, acknowledging the receipt of their old certificates

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HOWARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

of stock, and declaring them to be held subject to the agreement made by the depositors and other holders of the stock
qnd bonds of the company, with the cqmmittee; and that the
receipt now issued entitled "the bearer" to so many dollars in
the new bonds to be issued, and interest thereon at the rate
of 7 per cent. per annum, from December 1st, 1865, less the
excess, if any, of the cost of foreclosure, sale, and other expenses of the committee, &c., over and above $62,164, unappropriated balance of $5,500,000, derived from the sale
of said road, and any and all the rights of the said depositor,
under and by virtue of the agreement aforesaid.
On the back of the receipt was printed the scheme of dis
tribution, specif ing the proportion to be paid on each class
of bonds an. on the stock.
The holders of the stock and bonds (with unimportant exceptions) became parties to this agreement by depositing
their stock and bonds with the trust company, signing the
areement, and taking their receipts as above.
The foreclosure was effected thus Some holders of bonds,
secured by the last mortgage, being dissatisfied with the
above plan, caused a suit to foreclose that mortgage to be
commenced in the Circuit Court for Iowa, in the name of the
trustees of the mortgage, early in 1866. The Chicago and
Rock Island Railroad Company subsequently purchased the
bonds of these parties, and obtained the control of the suit,
which was then turned over to the committee. Under their
direction, cross bills to foreclose the other mortgages were
filed, and a final decree of foreclosure of all the mortgages
and for a sale of the road was had. A sale under this decree
took place soon after, and the road was bid off by a new
corporation, which had, been organized under the Iowa law,
for $2,200,000, which sale was afterwards confirmed, and a
deed made in pursuance of it. The new company after the
sale was consolidated with the Chicago and Rock Island Company, the consolidated company assuming the name of "The
Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railroad Company"
The
$5,500,000 of bonds, agreed to be given for the property of
the Mississippi and Missouri Company, were distributed as

Dec. 1868.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HOWARD.
Argument for the stqckholders.

agreed on, except that portion thereof which was to have
been divided among the stockholders. In regard to that, new
claimants now appeared. These were, Howard, Weber, and
numerous other persons, who had obtained udgments against
the Mississippi and Missouri Railroad Company, on certain
bonds of -the cities of Davenport, Muscatine, &c., guarantied
by the railroad company, but making no part of the bonds already mentioned, as executed by the Mississippi and Missouri
Company, nor secured in any way by the mortgages foreclosed, nor provided for in the transactions above set forth.
These creditors, on whose judgments executions had been
issued and returned nulla bona, now filed a bill in the court
below, to obtain satisfaction of their claims out of the fund
of 16 per cent. allotted to the stockholders, 'making the committee Who negotiated matters, all three railroads, and the
city of Davenport (against which also they had obtained judgment) defendants. Answers were filed bythe members of the
committee, and by the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railroad Company. The decree made in the case declared the
complainants entitled to the fund, as creditors of the Mississippi and Missouri Railroad Company, directed its payment
by the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railroad Company
to a receiver, its 'conversion by him into money, and distribution pro rataamong the different creditors; providing also
for subrogating the defendants to the rights and remedies of
the plaintiffs, against the municipalities issuing the bonds, so
far as they were paid out of the fund in controversy From
this decree the committee, and the Chicago, Rock Island and
Pacific Railroad Company appealed, and this appeal constituted the present case. the principal question being, whether
the couft below, in allowing the creditors unprotected by
mortgage to take away the 16 per cent. which had been allowed to the stockholders, had decreed rightly The, Mississippi and Missouri Railroad Company did not appeal.
Messrs. Emmot, Cook, and Drury, for the appellants
1. We submit as a preliminary point that the guaranty
made by the Mississippi and Missouri Railroad Company,

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HOWARD.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the stockholders.

of the Davenport city bonds, was beyond the power of the
corporation, and void. A railroad corporation can no more
guaranty the payment of a bond issued by a town or a
county, than -t can the payment of a similar obligation made
by an individual, to enable either to raise money to pay their
subscriptions to its stock.*
2. Passing to the main matter. The decree below assumed that the 16 per cent. was a dividend of capital on the
dissolution of the railroad corppany to its stockholders, something saved from the bondholders for the company, its property, therefore, and assuming this, it would argue, and argue rightly enough, that the stockholders were entitled to
nothing till all creditors were paid. But the assumption
made is a false one. This company was hopelessly bankrupt.
Its bonded debt was about seven millions, while the proceeds
of the sale amounted to but five and a half millions, even
this sun being more than it was worth, the real price was,
of course, below $2,200,000, that being as much as the road
actually brought at a fair public sale. This fact makes it
clear that the bond debt of the company completely exhagsted
its property, and left nothing for general creditors and stockholders. The property of every corporation is a trust fund
for payment of the debts of the company, but a fund for
their payment in the order in which they are due. This
fund was held in trust, not for creditors generally, but for
the bond creditors primarily It was theirs, and as the bond
debts far exceeded the fund, it was theirs only The stockholders were entitled to nothing as a matter of right.
How, then, do they get it? The explanation is obvious.
From the fund going to the bondholders, they agree to give
to the stockholders 16 per cent. Whatever form, show, or
courtesy toward the stockholders (whom it was desired to
conciliate, and to treat as if they had some rights of value,
though they had really none) the thing had, such was the
* Bank of Genesee v. Patchin Bank, 3 Kernan, 309-314, Bridgeport City
Bank v. Empire Stone-dressing Co., 30 Barbonr, 421, Morfordv. Farmers'
Bark of Saratoga, 26 Id. 568.

Dec. 1868.]

RAILROAD O0MfPANY V. HOWARD.
Argument for the stockholders.

real operation.

No other operation which should have the

same effect was possible. Now in this view, a true one,
what legal claim have these complainants, creditors of one sort
though they be, to this fund, a fund which is really but a
surrender by the bondholders of their property to the stockholders? What have the complainants lost by this arrangement? Nothing. If the 16 per cent. had not been given
to the stockholders, it would have been retained by the
bondholders, and then, certainly, the complainants could not
contend that they would be entitled 'to it.
The argument will be that this was a contract between the
bondholders, stockholders, and the railroad company, to
divide the proceeds in a certain way, and that the railroad
company should sell the road, and should procure a foreclosure of the mortgages.
Any agreement, however, by which the railroad company
bound itself to have the mortgages foreclosed and the property sold, so that the purchaser might transfer a perfect title
to any company whom the Chicago and Rock Island Road
might designate, was, independently of the bond creditors,
impossible. How could the railroad company or the stockholders procure a foreclosure of its mortgages? They had
no control of them. Suppose that the bondholders had refused to foreclose the mortgages, how could the railroad
company or any one else procure the title under the foreclosure so -as to transfer a perfect title to any designated person ? There would have been no agreement of any value
then by the company, even if the company agreed at all.
But the meeting where all was done that was done in this
matter was a meeting of the bondholders and stockholders
only The railroad company as a corporation had nothing
to do with it. The bondholders and stockholders acted, each
man for himself. The question was.- "We being all interested in an insolvent corporation, what can we best do to promote our common interest 9" ,The bondholders say to the

stockholders, "We wish to sell. Confessedly the road will
not bring anything like the amount of our mortgages. You
have no real interest in the thing .under any circumstances.

RAILROAD

COMPANY V. HOWARD.

[Slip. Ct.

Argument for the stockholders.

But do not interpose captious and unjust objections. Let us
have the money confessedly due to us, and ours, and we will
give you a small part of it."Is there anything unfair in that?
We suppose that no question will be made but that, in the
first instance, and aside from any agreement, the bondholders were entitled to every dollar of this money The road
was mortgaged for near three times its value, and the equity
of redemption was supremely worthless. If, then, these
stockholders have got anything, it must be because the
bondholders have surrendered a part of their fund to them.
If the fund belonged to the bondholders, they had a right
so to surrender a part or the whole of it. And if the bond:
holders did so surrender t-heir own proper~ty to the stock
holders, it became the private property of these last, a gift,
or, if you please, a transfer for consideration from the bondholders, whose it had before exclusively been in absolute
property What right have these complainants to such property in the hands of the stockholders9
If the road had been worth anything above the mortgage
they would have some case. But it is a datum et concessurn
of this controversy that the road was worth very far less than
the mortgage debts upon it, and that these were increasing,
while the road of necessity was growing less valuable. In
one sense the mortgagees held but liens oii the road, but in
fitct they were the owners, and so, in strict view, they were
in form, a mortgage being a conveyance in fee subject to defeasance by redemption, a right that here it was absolutely
certain neither would or could ever be exercised.
Some additional points apart from the main one deserve
to be suggested, as that3. The corporation could not sell its road, and did not
undertake to sell it. It could not, because the directors of
the company were authorized to sell only provided that, 1.
Its debts were first paid. 2. That two-thirds of its stockholders assented to such sale. Now the agreement between
the railroad companies was not an agreement for any such
sale, and did not satisfv these conditions.

Dec..1868.]

RAILROAD

COMPANY

V. HOWARD.

401

Argumentffor the creditors.

4. There is a defect of parties. Here as a fund amounting
to over half a million of dollars, claimed by the stockholders
and sought to be recovered by the general creditors of the
railroad company, and yet, not a single 'one of 'the stockholders is made a party- Their right to This fund is to be
determined without allowing them a hearing, or a day in\
court.
5. The certificates issued by the Union Trust Company
were payable to bearer, and therefore negotiable. They have
doubtless been sold in the market as other certificates qf
stock, and are now in the -hands of persons other than the
stockholders not parties to this suit. If payment of the 16
per cent. is arrested and diverted to the payment of the debts
Qf the railroad company; these innocent third parties will be
sufferers. This proceeding, thus partakes of the character
of a garnishment at law The trustees are-called on to paythese bonds-to the creditors of the defendant. Their answer
is. "Our liability is on negotiable paper, and we can't'say
that we are indebted to the defendant."
6. The complainants have a remedy at law. Numerous
decisions recently made in this court, and especially the late
one in Biggs v Johnson County.* show that vigorous measures
have been taken against these defaulting cities and counties
to enforce'payment of these judgments. These measures
are about to be crowned with success. Writs of mandamus
against several cities and counties are now in the hands, of
the officers of the law. Let them proceed to collect their
money These are the parties who ought to be made to
pay, and let the stockholders enjoy the small amount saved
by them from a wreck.
Messrs. Grant and Bogers, contra.
1. As to the guaranty and its effect. We doubt not that
the road which had, confessedly, power to borrow by executlng bonds as a principal) had power to borrow by guaranty
as well. But however this inay be, as the Mississippi and
6 Wallace, 166.
VOL. VII.

26'

RAILROAD CO4'UPAXY V.

_{OWAP%

SpCCt.
ISup.

Argument for the ereditors.

Missouri Railroad Company, the guarantor,-though made a
party defendant, made no Qefence in the court below, and
does not appeal, the other defendants' are thereby concluded
from controverting the status of the complainants as creditors of the railroad company *
2. Passing to the principal point. The appellants deny
our right to 'the fund in controversy, on the. ground that
it belonged absolutely to the mortgage bondholders of the
railroad company, who have seen fit, as a matter of favor,
to surrender it to the stockholders.
Now, the fund in question is a part of the purchase-money
agreed to be paid for the road and other property of the
Mississippi and Missouri Company, on 'a voluntary prWate
contract of sale of it to another company, to which contract the two companies and the bondholders and stockholders of the Mississippi and Missouri' Company were all
alike parties.
The foreclosure and sale thereunder were simply the form
of conveyance, concerted and agreed on by'the parties, and
effected in pursuance and execution of the contract. They
bear the same relation to the real transaction, which the
forms of a fine, or common recovery (when those dlncient
modes of conveyance were in use), bore to the real contract
in pursuance of whichthey were gone, through with. Those
old proceedings wore, on their face, all the outward insigiia
of a suit at law There was a plaintiff and a defendant,
formal pleadings, and a judgment entered of record. But
the whole thing was a form, intended to carry into effect a.,
previous private agreement, and was for centuries before it
went out of use, regarded as a mere mode of conveyance,
one of the common assurances of the realin, and so treated
bv legal writers. We read, in connection with the subject,
of previous or concurrently executed deeds, in which the one
or the other party covenants to levy a fine or suffer a common recovery of the property to be conveyed, and of deeds
* Holyoke Bank v. Goodman Paper Manufacturing Company, 9 Cushing,

67(.

Dee ,1868:]r RAILROA-D OOMP"A*'

V. .HOWARD.

Argument for the creditors.

to declare or lead the uses of.-such fine or _recovery; vhex
1;ieol or suffered, in which deeds, of curse, the 'subptance
of the whole transaction was to be found. These instruv
ments have their counterpart in the case now before the
-court. The contract between -the two railroad compamies,
by which the Mississippi and Missouri Company agrees, tb
"pause, the mortgages, on its, line of road, &e., to he .for4'
closed, and its. entire property, real and personal;'sold-, so
that the purchaser -shall be able to transfer, a perfect-.and
unincumbered title','" &c., fulfils the same office as the deeq
covenauting to-suffer a recovery and declaring its uses, .whil6
the formal -foreclosure proceedings answer exactly to 'the.
recovery itself.
It -is said by appellants' counsel that .the contract of,sale
'was vod, because the Mississippi and Missouri Railroad
",*eompany had no power, under its -iiitcles of 'in.corp~rat'jon,
to sell the road'.without, the assent of wq,-thirds of'its siodk-.
,holders.
But it is in fact unimportant Whe6ther the tranigactior of
the sale and agreement to. divide the proceeds -thereof were
'.the-result of regular and, formal corporate adtion on the part,
of-the M s~issippi,an'-Missouri -Railroad Company, or not.
If the officers of a corpor'ation see, fit to turn over the control
-of its affairs and property to an o uside caucus.of -its,stockholders, and-the agents -therebyappointed, and permit such.rregular. agenoiesin fact to dispose of its assets, the rights
of its creditors are jist t6e same in the proceeds realized as
though the sale had been regulaly ordered at a, corporate
meeting and formally entered on the'corporate records. No
,distiotott,'for -the present purpose, can be taken betv,"een
thd. stockholders and the,'corporation.. The sto.chold'ers
consiitut;, collectNvely,, the corpoatio. _"They control i& ac.tion,,and whether theydo so in aregular way, or undertA]ke
an ate permitted to do it in an irregular one, can make nq
-'differenge~ as to th. 1 hts of creditors to compel the appr6.priatibn ofthe corporate prdpefty, or.its dvails, to the payment of thecorporate debts.
,Thefund i, cfuestion being 'thus part of the proceeds -of.a

404

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HOWARD.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the creditors.

sale of the railroad, by voluntary contract, assented to by
its mortgage bondholders, and its attitude being the same as
though the road had been conveyed to the new company,
in consideration of the $5,500,000, airectly by deed of the
railroad corporation, the mortgagees joining therein, and
releasing the lien of their mortgages, we may consider the
main argument urged by the appellants, viz., that the fund
was never, in favor of creditors, part of the assets of the
corporation, but was the absolute property of its mortgage
bondholders, and has been bestowed by them upon the
stockholders.
We deny both branches of this proposition. We main
tain (1) that this fund was never the property of the bond
holders; and (2) that their agreement to relinquish their lien
upon it, or rather upon the property by the sale of which it
was realized, for a less sum than thleir whole debt, leaving
this remainder, so far from being a gratuity, was made upon
a perfectly adequate consideration.
The error, in the argument on the other side is, that it
treats the mortgagees of the railroad as its absolute owners,
with full power to sell and dispose of it at their sole will and
pleasure, and to do with the proceeds whatsoever seemed to.
them good. But they were simply creditors of the railroad
company, secured by a pledge of itg property'; merely lienholders. The ownership, subject to the liens, was in the
company. It alone could sell and convey the road, subject
to the liens of the mortgagees, if without their concurrence,,
or free from such liens if such concurrence were obtained.
The rights and powers of the mortgagees, in respect to
theproperty, were simply either to release their mortgages,
or to foreclose them by judicial proceedings. It is said that
their claims amounted to more than the road was worth,
and more than the $5,500,000 realized by the sale. Whether
or not they were more than the value of the road (whatever
conjectures may be hazarded), no court can now judicially
say; for the only test of the question recognized by the law
has been rendered impossible by a public judicial sale of the
road, under an actu'al foreclosure But were it se asserted

'Dec. 1868.] •RAImtOAD COMPANY v. HBOWARD.

405

Argument for the creditors.

by the appellants, the fact could not enlarge the rights oe
the mortgagees to those of proprietors. And as to, the
$5,500,000 purchase-money, it was obtained by a sale which
the mortgagees had neither the right northe power to make
without the co-operation of the railroad company;, which cooperation, if given, constituted an ample consideration for
any concessions which the mortgagees agreed to make in
order to obtain them.
8. What, then, did these two parties, the railroad company
and its mortgage bondholders, standing in these relations
to each.other and to the property, actually do? The bondholders in effect say to the stockholders: "If you, who constitute and control the Mississippi and Missouri Railroad
Company, will 'agree to sell the road to the Chicago and
Rock.Island Company for the $5,500,000, which they offer
-to give-for it, and will procure the company's co-bleration
in the necessary steps to consummate the sale and transfer
the title, with' all possible despatch, we will agree, in -considdration of such consent and co-operation, to receive,. in
full satisfaction of our bonds, so much of the purchasemoney as will leave a balance of it sufficient to pay you
sixteen per cent. on your stock; and will release all claim
upon such balance; and let you divide it, if you" choose,
among, yourselves." This offer was accepted (as well it
might be) -by the stockholders, and the scheme was carried
into effect in the manner already detailed.
In short, the dompany effected a compromise of its obligations to its mortgage-bondholders, and thereby saved a remnant of its property from their grasp. And this compromise
was effected with the intent that the remnant thus saved,
and which when released by the mortgagees became in law
assets of the Mississippi and Missouri Company, should go'
to the stockholders. That is, the parties intended to commit a fraud upon the complainants 'and all other general
creditors of the company.
The idea is implied in.
the argument on the other side,
that the mortgage-bondholders have 'some interest in having
this money go to the stockholders, and that some wrong will

406

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HOWARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the creditors.

be done to them. by giving it to the complainants. But such
is not the case. The bondholders have no interest in the
matter, They have received all they bargained for, viz., the
proportion stipulated to be paid them on their bonds; and
it is obviously wholly indifferent to them what becomes of
the residue. That residue, as already shown, they agreed, on
sufficient consideration, to relinquish. Their bonds were in
no case to be returned to them. They were cancelled and satisfied by the completion of such sale and the payment to the
receipt-holders of the agreed share of the purchase-money,
as specified in their respective receipts.
We pass to the minor points.
4. If the stockholders were necessary parties, it amounts
to a denial of justice; for it was impossible to make them
parties. Their number was very great; their names were
unknown to the complainants; and. many, without doubt,
resided beyond the reach of the process of the court. But
on no principle were they necessary parties. Their rights
and interests are doubly represented by parties brought before the court, viz., 1st, by the corporation itself, the Mississippi and Missouri Company, of which they were memhers; 2d, by their own committee, chosen and appointed by
themselves.

5. The proposition that the receipts issued by the trust
company were payable to bearer, and therefore negotiable,
hardly requires refutation. A- written contract is not ne.
gotiable, simply because by its terms it is to enure to the
benefit of the bearer. These receipts were not negotiable.
They were assignable, no doubt, and would have been so
had the word "bearer" been omitted. But assignees take
them subject to every equity affecting them in the hands of
the original holder.
6. The remedies at law against defaulting cities have, as
is commonly known, thus far p~aetically proved of no value
it, Iowa; and whether they "are about to be crowned with
success," remains to be seen. They are, therefore, not an
"adequate remedy." The complainants will, at all events,
ifthe relief prayed for is granted, enjoy them by subrogation.

1)ec. 1868.],

RAILROAD CONPAIW

V. HOWARD.

407

Opiniof 'f the cbnrt.

Mr. Justie- CLIFFORD delivered tha opinidn of the epurt.
Subscriptions were made to the. Mississippi and 'Missounri
Railrqad Company by certain municipal corporations through
which the railroad was slocated, and the proper authorities of
those municipalities issied their bonds in payment of such
subscriptions to the stock of the 'railr'6ad company.
Coupons were attached to the bonds providing for the payment of interest semi:annually, and the railroad company,
a& the immediate transferees of the bonds, guaranteed that
the principal and interest of the bonds should be paialas
stipulated by an instrument in writing on the babk.of each
bond, duly executed by the proper officers of the railroad
company.
Obvious purpose of that guaranty was to' augment the
credit of the bonds in the market, and to facilitate their sale
to capitalists to raise money to construct their railroad and
put, it in operation. Complainants became 'the lawful
holders for value qf a large number of th'see bonds, and the'
guarantors as v'ell, as the obligors tregldeting and refusing
to p4y, the coupons as the same fell due, they brought'separate suits against' those parties, and recovered judgmenfs"
against them respectively, ..ds alleged in, the bill of complaint..
Executions were issued as well on th6 judgment against
the obligors of the bonds, as on the. judgment against the.
guarantors of the saufe, and the return of the 6fficer in each
case was that he found no property. Prior to the date of
those judgments, the railroad company had executed several
mortgages of their railroad to. secure the payment of"their
bands issued at different times, to the -amount of seven millions of .dollars, and the ,comipany had become insolvent.
They had also become liable as guarantors of the municipal
bonds already 'described, and otheis of like kind received,
and iised for the same purpose, to the amount of three hundred thousand dollars, the payment of which was repudiated
by the respective municipal corporations, by whose officer
the bonds weare'issued.
Unable to pay the debts' of the company, the stockholders'

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HOWARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion, of the court.

of the same determined to sell their railroad. Arrangements
'were accordingly made between the stockholders and the
holders of the mortgage bonds to-get up the stock of the
company through certain agents or trustees, and to execute
and deliver to the several holders of 'hose bonds and to the
owners of the stock of the company, certificates of the
amounts that they respectively would be entitled to receive
under a distribution of the consideration of the proposed

sale. . Amount of the consideration, as assumed in the arrangement, was five millions five hundred thousand dollars,
and the terms of the arrangement were that the consideration
should be distributed among the parties interested therein,
according to a prescribed scale as set forth in the bill of com-

plaint.
By that scale of distribution sixteen per cent. of the amount,
to wit, five hundred and-fifty-two thousand four hundred
dollars were to be paid to the owners of the capital stock,
but none of the stipulations in the arrangement made any
provision for the payment of the bonds or coupons belonging to the complainants. Authorized to carry the arrangement into effect, the proper agents of the company offered
to sell the entire property of the railroad to the Chicago and
Rock Island Railroad, and the latter company, on the first
day of November, 1865, accepted the proposition, and the
partie§ entered into written stipulations upon the subject.

Those proposing to sell agreed that they would, with all
possible despatch, cause the niortgages on the.railroad to be
foreclosed, and that the entire property of the company, real
and personal, should be sold and conveyed to trustees, and
that the same should be transferred to such incorporated
company in that State as the other contracting party should
designate as the purchaser of the property, if such designation was made within the time therein prescribed.
By the terms of the agreement the Chicago and Rock Island Railroad Compa ny agreed to cause to be incorporated
in that State a company which should make the purchase, as
proposed, for ihe sum of five million five hundred thousand
dollars, and complete the railroad to the place therein men.

Dec 1i868.J. RAIMkcAD, OOM)?ANY

V. EdWARD.40

409

Opinion of the bourt.

tioned, and the other party stipulated hat the purehaser at
the foreclosure s~le should convey the railroad to thie new
company fbr that consideration. Pursua'nt to that agree,.
ment.the mortgageswere foreclosed, and the new company,
to wit, the Chicago, Rock Island, and Pacific Railroad Corn- pany, ,was, created under the general 'laws. of the State, and,
the entire property of the railroad was sold at the foreclosuie sale, and the purchasers co6nveyed the same to the new obmpany as stipulated in the agreement. All the-stockholders
in the old company became thereby entitled, as against all
those who jdined with them in negotiating the sale, to a'pro
rata share in the sixteen per cent; of the consideration reserved to their use under the scale of distributi6n prescribed'
in that arrangement.
.Statement of the bill of complaint.is, that the -new company is ready to jay that amount to the stockholders of the
.old company, and the complaiihants contend that the factsherein recited show that they are entitled to have their whole
debt paid before any portion of the fund derived from that
sale shall go to the stockholders of the old ciimipany,, which
is insolvent, and will become extinct when that arrangeme'nt
is fully carried into effect.,
Views of the complainants were sustained in the couft
below, where it was ordere'd- adjudged, and decreed,' that'
the complainants and, the other parties who were duly-admitted as such, and joined in the prosecution of, the. suit,
were .entitled, hs crediiors of the railroad company, - to so
much of the purchase-money as was agreed between the
parties, and intended to be reserved and distributed among
the stockholders of the company, and -from that decree, a§s
more fully set forth in the record, the respondents appealed..
L Equity regards the property of a corporation ai held in
trust for the payment of the debts of the corporation; and
recognizes the right of cieditors to pursue it into whosesoever possession it may be transferred, unless it has passed into the' hands of a bon2fide purchaser; and the -rule is 'vvl
settled that stockholders, are not entitled to any share of the

RI:AILROAD COIMPANY V. HOWARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the, court.

capital stock nor to any dividend of the profits until all the
debts of the corporation are paid.
Assets derived from the sale of the capital stock of the
corporation, or of its property, become, as respects creditors,
the substitutes for the things sold, and as such they are subject to the same liabilities and -restrictions as the things sold
were before the sale, and while they remained in the posses8ion of the corporation. Even the sale of the entire capital
stock of the company and the division of the proceeds of the
sale among the stockholders will not defeat the trust nor impair the remedy of the creditors, if any debts remain unpaid,
'as the creditors in that event may pursue the consideration

of the sale in the hbuds of the respective stockholders, and
compel each one, to the extent of the fund, to contribute
pro rata towards the payment of their debts out of the moneys
so received and'in their hands.

Valid contracts made by a corporation survive even its dissolution by voluntary surrender or sale of its corporate franchises, and the creditors of the corporation, notwithstanding
such surrender or sale, may still enforce their claims against
the property of the corporation as if no such surrender or
sale had taken place. Moneys derived from the sale and
transfer of the franchises and capital stock of an incorporated
company are assets of the corporation, and as such constitute
a fund for the payment of its debts, and if held by the corporation itself, and so invested as to be subject to legal process, the fund may be levied on by such process; but if the
fund has been distributed among the stockholders, or passed
into the hands of other than bondfide creditors or purchasers,
leaving any debts of the corporation unpaid, the established
rule in equity is, that such holders take the fund charged
with the trust in favor of creditors, which a court of equity
will enforce, and compel the application of the same to the
satisfaction of their debts.*
1252; Mumma v. Potomac
Story's Equity Jurisprudence (9th ed.),
Company, 8 Peters, 286; Wood v. Dummer, 3 Mason, 308; Vose v. Grant,
15 Massachusetts, 522; Spear v. Grant, 16 Massachusetts, 14; Curran v.
Arkansas, 15 HowarS, 307.

Dee: 1868.]

RAILiAD COMP.NY 'V.. HoWARD.

411

Opinion of the court.

Regardd 'ab the trustee of the corporate fund, the crporation is' bound to administer the same in good faith for
the benefit of creditors and stockholders, and all others
interested in its pecuniary affairs, and any qne receiving any
portion of the fund by voluntary transfer, or without consideration, may be compelled to account to those for whose
use the fund is held. Creditors are preferred to stock-holders on account of the peculiar trust in their favoTr, and
,because the latter, as constituent members of the corporate
body, are regarded as sustaining, in that aspect, the same
relation to the former as that sustained by the corporation.
None of these principles are- directly controverted by the
appellants; but they deny that the sixteen percent. agreed
to be paid to, the stockholders belonged to the corppration.
-

Claim of the complainants to the fund in controversy rests
mainly upon two propositions, which present mixed questions-of law, and fact:
1. That they are creditors -of the' railroad company, as
evidenced by zhe judgments set forth in the record.
2. That the fund in qhestion was assets of the railroad
company.
Authority of the municipal corporations to issue the bonds,
purchased by the complainants is not denied; but the appellants contend that the railroad company had no power
to guaraptee their payment, and they also deny that the
railroadcompany had any title or interest in-the fund iil controversy. On the contrary, they insist ftlat it was a conces-.
sion made by the holders of the mortgage -bonds to the"
stockholders as a "gratuito u s favor" to save them from a
total loss, and to indtice them not to interpose ally obstacles
in the way of a speedy foreclosure of the seveal mortgages;
Express allegation of the bill of complaint is; that the"
bonds issued by'the, municipal corporations were .received
by the railroad company in ,payment for~subScriptions to the
stoclk of 'the company, and that the corporation, ,as the,
holders of the same, guaranteed' their payment. and sold

RAILROAD

COMPANY V. HOWARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

them in the market, and the stipulation of the parties is,
that all the allegations of the bill of complaint not denied
in the answer are to be considered as admitted. Apart,
therefore, from the effect of the judgments, those allegations must be taken to be true, as they were not denied in,
the answer.
Power to make contracts, and acquire and transfer property, is conferred upon such corporations, by the laws of the
State, to the same extent as that enjoyed by individuals;
and the record shows, to theentire satisfaction of the court,
that the. instrument of guaranty was executed and the bonds
sold in the market as the means of raising money to construct the railroad and put it in operation.
Counties and cities may issue bonds under the laws of
that State in aid of such improvements; and railway companies are expressly authorized to receive such securities in
payment of subscriptions to their capital stock, and to sell
the bonds in the market or such discount as they think
proper.
Albundant proof exists in this record, that railway companies may issue their own bonds to raise money to carry
into effect the purposes for which they were created; and it
is difficult to see why they may not guarantee the payment
of such bonds as they have lawfully received from cities
and counties, .and put them upon the market instead of
their own, as the means of accomplishing the same end.
Undoubtedly they may receive such bonds under the laws
of the State, and if they may receive them, they may transfer them to others; and if they may transfer them to purchasers, they may, if they deem it expedient, guarantee their
iayment as the means of augmenting their credit in the
market, and saving the corporation from the necessity of
'ssuing their own bonds to accomplish the same purpose.
Considered, therefore,, as an open question, the court is
of the opinion that the objection is withut merit. Private
corporations may borrow money, or become parties to negotiable paper in the transaction of their legitimate business,
9 nless expressly -prohibited; and until the contrary is shown,

Dec. 1868.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HOWARD.

. 4U3

Opinion of the court.

the legal presumption is that their acts in that behalf-were
.done in the tregular course of their authorized business.*
Railroad companies are responsible in their corporate
capacity for -acts done by their agents, either ex contrau or
ex delicto, in the course of-their business and within the scope
of the agent's authority.t
Corporations as.much as ii~dividuals are bound to good
faith and fair dealing, and the rule is well settled that they
cannot, by their acts; representations, or silence, involve
others in onerous engagements and then turn round and
disavow their acts and defeat the just expectations which
their own conduct has superinduced.1 ,
Tested by any view of the evidence, it is quite clear that
the corporation possessed the power to execute the instruments of guaranty appearing on the back of the bonds; and
'the necessary consequende of that conclusion is that on the
default of payrient they became liable to the holders 'of the
same to the same extent as the obligors.
Present suit -is not one against stockholders to compel
them to pay a corporate debt out of their own estate, but it
is a suit against the corporation and certain other parties
holding or claiming assets which belong to the principal respondent, to prevent that fund from being distributed among
the stockholders of the corporation before the debts due to
the complainants are paid. Viewed in that light, it is, obvious that the stockholders are precluded by the judgment
from denying the validity of the instruments of guaranty,
and that the judgments are conclusive as to the indebtedness'
of the corporation.
IL Second defence is that the fund in question did not
belong to the corporation, as contended by the appellees.
Canal Company v. Vallette, 21 Howard, 424; Partridge v. Badger, 26
Barbour, 146; Barry v. Mer. Ex Co., 1 Sandford's Ch. 280; Angell and
Ames on Corporations, 257; Story on Bills, 79; Farnum v. Blackstone
Canal, 1 Sumner, 46.
t Railroad Co. v.Quigley, 21 Howard, 202.
TJ Bargate '. Shortridge,- 5 House of Lords' Cases, 297; Zabriskie v. Rail.
road, 23 Howard, 3Q7; Bissell v. Jeffersonville, 24 Id. 300..

RAILROAP COMPANY v. HdwARD.

[Stip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Extended discussion, of. that proposition is not necessary, as
the evidence in the record affords the means of demonstration that it is not correct. Mortgage bondholders had a lien
upon the property bf the corporation embraced in their mortgages, and the corporation having neglected and refused to
pay the bonds; they had a right to institute proceedings to
fbreclose the mortgages, but the equity of redemptio, ,emained in the corporation. Subject to their lien, the property of the railroad was in the mortgagors, and whatever interest remained after the lien of the mortgages was discharged
belonged to the corporation, and as the property of the corporation when the bonds were discharged, it became a fLgnd
in trust for the benefit of their creditors. Holders of bonds
secured by mortgage as in this case, niay exact the whole
amount of the bonds, principal and interest, or they may, if
they see fit, accept a percentage as a comp romise in full discharge of their respective claims, but whenever their lien is
legally discharged, the property embraced in the mortgage,
or whatever remains of it, belongs to the corporation.
Conceded fact is that the property and franchises of the
railroad were sold for the consideration specified in the
-record, and that the mortgage bondholders discharged their
lien for eighty-four per cent. of that ambunt, and that the
residue of the purchase-money remained in the hands of the
purchaser discharged of the lien created by the mortgages,
and the complainants contend that it was clear of all liens,
except that of the creditors. Such a corporation cannot be
said to own anything separate from the stockholders, unless
it be the tangible property of-the company and the franchises
conferred by the charter, and it is conceded by both parties
that the fund in question was derived from a voluntary sale
and transfer of those identical interests. They were heavily
incumbered by mortgages, and our attention is called to the
fact that'the provisional arrangement w'as negotiated by the
stockholders and bondholders; -but the decisive answer to
that, suggestion is, that the two railroad companies icre
parties t9 the subsequent contract of sale, and that they both
agreed to all the terms of sale and purchase, and to the modu

Dec. 1868.]

RAILROAD COMPANY v. HOWARD.

415

Opinion bf the court.

of transferring and of perfecting.the'title. Prompt payment
was secured by the bondholders, and it is highly probable
that they received under that arrangement a larger pbrtion
of their claims than they could have obtained:in any other
way.
Another suggestion of the appellants is tL " the contract
of sale was unauthorized, but the suggestion is entitled to no
weight, as the contract was ultimately carried into effect by
the consent or subsequent ratification of all parties interested
in the subject-matter of the sale.
Next objection is that there is such a.want of parties that
a court of equity cannot grant the relief as prayed. Principal suggestion in support of this proposition is that the stockholders should have been made parties, but the court is~of a
different opinion, because their interest is fully represented
by the parties before the bourt. Respondents in the suit are
the two railroad companies and the committee or trustees
chosen and appointed by the stockholders and bondholders
through whom the provisional arrangement was perfected
and the contract of sale was carried into effect. Neither the
stockholders nor b'ondholders were necessary parties under
the circumstances of this case.*
Remaining objection is, that the certificates issued-to the
stockholders in lien of their stock, were negotiable, and that
they may be ih the hands of innocent holders; but the objection is entitled to no weight, because it is based upon, an
erroneous theory.
Written contracts are not necessarily negotiable simply
because by their terms they enu reto the benefit of the bearer.
Doubtless the certificates were assignfable; and they would
have been so if the word bearer had bee omittcd, but they
were not negotiable instruments in the sense supposed by
the appellants. Holders might transfer them, but the asBagshaw v. Railway Co., 7 .Hare, 131; Holyoko Bank v.-Manufacturing
Co., 9 Cushing,,576; Hall v. Railroad, 21 Law Reporter, 138; 1 Redfield
'on Railways, 678; Boon v. Chiles, 8 Peters, 632; Story v. Livingston, ,13
1d. 359.

SHEETS V.

[Sup. Ct.

SELDEN.

Statement of the cae.

signees took them subject to every equity in the hands of
the original owfier. *
Particular mention is not made of the defence that the
complainants have an adequate remedy at law, as it is utterly
destitute of merit.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

SHEETS V.

SELDEN.

1. The action of an inferior court as to the terms on which it will allow a
complainant to amend a bill in equity to whichdit has sustained a demurrer, is a matter within the discretion of such court, and not open to
examination here on appeal.
2. Where, under a clause of re-entry for non-payment of rant reserved, a
landlord sues in ejectment, in Indiana (in which State a judgment in
ejectment has the same conclusiveness as common law judgments in
other cases), for recovery cf his estate, as forfeited, and a verdict is
found for him, and judgment.given accordingly, the tenant cannot, in
another proceeding, deny the validity of the lease, nor his possession,
nor his obligation to pay the reiits reserved, nor, that the instalment of
rent demanded was due and unpaid.
3. Where, in a lease of a water-power, the lease proyides in a plain way.
and with a specification of the rates for an abatement of rent for'every
failure of water, the tenant c nnot, on a bill by him to enjoin a writ
of.possession by the landlord, after a recovery by him at law for forfeiture
of the estate for non-payment of rent reserved, set up a counter claim
for rep4irs to the water-channel made necessary by the landlord's gross
negligence. - He is confined to the remedy specified in the lease; a covenant that a lessor will make repairs not being to be implied.
4. In such a ease, before he can ask relief from a forfeiture, he should at least
tender the difierence betweea the amount of rents due, and the amount
which he could rightly claim by way of reduction for failure of water.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for Indiana.

The State of Indiana, owning a certain canal and its adjacent lands, made two leases of its surplus water; the first
being made, February, 1839, to one Yandes and a certain
Sheets, (this Sheets being the appellant in this case), and
the other made January, 1840, to Sheets alone. Each lease
was for the term of thirty years. Certain rents, payable
semi-annually, on the first of May and November, were
M
Mechanics' Bank v. Railroad Co., 13 New YTork, 699.

