574

.RAILROAD COMPANY V. HARRIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HARRIS.
To make a writ of error operate -as a supersedeas, it is indispensable that the
requirements of the act of Congress be strictly fulfilled. It is not enough
that the writ be issued and served, but a copy of the writ must be lodged,
fot. the adverse party, within ten days, Sundays exclusive, after judgment or decree.

THIs was a motion for writs of supersedeas to the Supreme Cort of the District of Columbia to stay execution
upon two judgments recovered in that court, one by Harris,
against the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, and the
other by his admihistratrix, against the same defendant.
The first judgment was for injuries sustained by Harris,
wheu a passenger on the defendant's railroad. The second
was a judgment upon scire facias, to revive the former j udgment, abated by the death of Harris,,and to make his administratrix party to that judgment, and to have execution.
To bring the first judgment into this court for review, a
writ of error had been sued out by the railroad company,
and- a sufficient bond for prosecution was filed, within ten.
days after rendition; but no copy of the writ of error appeared
to have been lodged in the clerk's office for the use of the
defendant in error.
The twenty-third section'of the Judiciary Act thus declares :*
"A writ of 'error shall be a-supersedeas, and a stay of executiou, in cases only where the writ of error is served by a copy
thereof being lodged, for the adverse party, in the clerk's office,
where the record remains, within ten days, Sundays exclusive,

after rendering the judgment, and passing the decree complained of."
'Ves&rs. Bradley,and Buchanan, in support.of the 'notion.
Messrs. Davidge anl Filler,contra.

The CHIEF TUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The right of the plaintiff in error to the writs for which
* 1 Stat. at Large, 84.

Dec. 1868.]

RAILiOAD COMPANY v. BRADLEYS.

575

Statement of the case.

the motion now before us is made, depends on the question
whether, by the proceedings tdken in the case, the writ of.
error upon the first judgment became a supersedeas?
And this question is answered by the express words of the
twenty-third section of the Judiciary Act.
The legislature has seen fit tQ make the lodgifig of a copy
of the writ, within ten days, a prerequisite to the operation
of the writ as a supersedeas. The cause was removed from
the inferior court to this court, by the issuiug of the wvrit)
and the due service of it upon the court to which it is addressed; but its additional effect, as a supersedeas, depends
upon compliance with the conditions imposed by the act.
We cannot dispense with that compliaice in respee to
lodging a copy for the adverse party.
The motion for writs of supersedeas in both cases must,
therefore, be DENIED;, and as the second writ of error bringp

nothing before us, unless the writ in the first"case operated
as a supersedeas under the statute, that writ must be
DISMISSED.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. BRADLEYS-.

1. A decree ordering an injunction, p reviously granted to restrain a sale
under a deed of trust, to be dissolved, and directing a sale according to the
deed of trust, and the bringing of the proceeds into court, held to be a

final decree.
2. An actual ,allowance of an appeal nay be inferred where the record
shows that an appeal was prayed for in opea court, -and an appeal bond
filed and approved by one of the judges.'
3. A supersedeas granted, the record showing that a decree dissolving an
injunction was made on the 6th of February, a petition for the suspension of the order filed by one party on the, same day, by another on the
15th, a petition to open the decree on the 13th ; a motion to rescind,
made on the 6th March, during the term at which the decree was rendered, which' motion was heard and denied dn the 13th, with an appeal
prayed iu open court on the 20th, and an appeal bond filed on the 23d."
MOTIONS to dismiss and for supersedeas, on an appeal from
tho Supreme Court of the District of Columbia. The case,
was thus;

