386

RIDDLESBAROER V. HARTFORD LSURANCE Co.

[Sup. (1t.

Statement of the case.

any moneyed value. Such a claim would be fatal to the relief he asks, because it would show that it is a proper case
for a writ of error, and therefore a mandamus will not lie.
We have repeatedly held that the writ of mandamus can.
not be made to perform the functions of a writ of error.
In the recent case of the C~mmissioner v. Whiteley,* the following language was used without dissent: "The principles
of the law relating to the remedy by mandamus are well
settled. It lies when thete is a refusal to perform a mihisterial act involving no exercise of judgment or discretion..
. . . It lies when the exercise of judgment and discretion
are involved, and the officer refuses to decide, provided that
ifhe decided, the aggrieved party could have his decision reviewed
by another tribunal. . . . It is applicable only in these two
classes of cases. It cannot be made to perform the functions
of a writ of error."
And to the same purpose are Ex parte Hoytt and Ex parte
Taylor.1
Mr. Justice SWAYNE, not having heard the argument,
took no part in the judgment.

RIDDLESBARGER V.

HARTFORD INSURANCE

COMPANY.

1. A condition in a policy of fire insurance that no action against the insurers, for the recovery of any claim upon the policy, shall be sustained,
unless commenced within twelve months after the loss shall have occurred, and that the lapse of this period shall be conclusive evidence
against the validity of any claim asserted, if an action for its enforcement be subsequently commenced, is not against the policy of the statute
of limitations, and is valid.
2. The action mentioned in the condition which must be commenced within
the twelve months, is the one which is prosecuted to judgment. The
failure of a previous action from any cause cannot alter the case;
although such previous action was commenced within the period prescribed.

ERtOR to

the Circuit Court for Missouri.

This was an action against the Hartford Insurance Com*4

Wallace, 524.

t- 13 Peters. 279.

1 14 Howard, 8.

Dec. 1868.]

RIDDLESBAUGER V. RARTFORD

INSUrANcE Co. 387

,Statement of the cgae.

pany, upon a policy of insurance in the sum of five thohsand
dollars, issued by the said company, a corporation created
under the laws of Connecticut, to the plaintiff, upon a brick
building, belonging to him, situated in Kansas City, in the
State of Miss6uri. The policy bore date on the first of June;
1861, and was for one year. The building was destroyed
by fire in March, 1862, and in June following the plaintiff
brought an action for the loss sustained'in the Kansas City
"COurt of Common Pleas, in the county of Jackson in that
State. To this action the defendant appeared and answered
to the merits, and the cause continued in that court until
June, 1864, when it was dismissed by the plaintiff. Within
one year after this dismissal the present action ,was commence. in the Court of Common Pleas in the County of St.
Louis, from which it was transferred to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Missodri.
The policy contained the following condition:
"Tiat -no suit or action of any kind against, said company
for the recovery'of Any'claim upon, under, or by viitue of the
said policy shall be sustainable in apy court of law or chancery, unless such suit or action shall be commenced withih the
term of twelve months next after the loss or damage shall occur,
an.d in case any suit or action'shall be commenced, against said
company after the expirati6u of twelve months next after such

loss or damage shall have o irred, the lapse of time -hall be
taken and deeiiied as conclus e evidence against the validity of
such claim thereby so attempted to be enforced."
To the present action the defendant pleaded this condition. The plaintiff replied the commencement of the first
action in the Kansas City Court of Common Pleas within
the year stipulated in the condition, and the commencement
of the present action within one year after the dismissal of
that action. To the replication the defendant demurred.
The statute of limitations of Missouri, after prescribing
various periods of limitation for different actions, provides
that if in any action commenced within the periods mentioned, the plaintiff shall "suffer a nonsuit," he may conmence a new action within one year afterwards.

388

RIDDLESBARGER V. HARTFORD INSURANCE CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the party insured.

The Circuit Court sustained the demurrer, and rendered
final judgment thereon for the defendant, and the plaintiff
brought the case here by writ of error.
Mr. James .Yughes, for the plaintiff in error.
i. Parties cannot by a contract agree upon a limitation dif
ferent from the statutes within which suit shall be brought,
or the right to sue be barred. This would be in conflict with
the law and its policy. The point is so expressly ruled by
McLean, J.,* and by the Supreme Court of Indianat which
followed him.t
This is an attempt to bar or discharge a right of action
before the right accrues. It is a well-settled principle, that
a release can only operate upon an existing claim.1
Why has a condition or agreement in a policy, providing
that all disputes arising under it shall be referred to arbitration, been held to be void? Because it is an.attempt to oust
the jurisdiction of the courts.ยง
II. But if the limitation contract, as to the time of bringing the suit, is valid, and binds the plaintiff to commence
his action within twelve months next after the loss occurred,
then we insist that inasmuch as the plaintiff did commence
his action against the defendant, within the time prescribed,
viz., in June, 1862, in the Kansas City Court of Common
Pleas, in Jackson County, Missouri, in which he sought to
recover, for the same cause of action and none other, that
he seeks to recover for in the present suit; to which action
defendant appeared and filed an answer to the merits thereof; that said action was pending and undetermined in said
court until June, 1864, when plaintiff suflered a nonsuit
therein, and the present action was commenced in the St.
French et al. v. Lafayette Insurance Company, 5 McLean, 463.
Eagle Insurance Company v. Lafayette Insurance Company, 9 Indiana, 443.
+ Coke Littleton, 265; Hastings v. Dickinson, 7 Massachusetts, 155; Gib*

f

so. V. Gibson. 15 Id. 110.

"Kill v. II lister, 1 Wilson, 129; Allegre v. Insurance Company, 6 Har.
ris & Johns(n, 413.

Dec. 1868.]

RIDDLYSBARGER V. HARIFORD INSURANCE CO. 389
Opinion of the court.

Louis Court of Common Pleas, in July, 1864, within twelve
months after the nonsuit was suffered; then plaintiff has
complied with the condition in said contract according to,
and in compliance with the then existing laws of Missouri,
and is entitled to maintain the present action.*
The, contract was made in the State of Missouri, and was
made with reference to the then existing laws of that State.

That law became a part of the contract itself, and to that
law we must look in giving a construction to the contract;
and so fdr as the remedy is concerned, when suit is brought
in that State to enforce a right growing out ofthat contract,
the law of that State must alone govern and determine.
The Revised Statutes of 1855 were in force when the contract was made, and so continued in force until after the
commencement of this suit in the Common Pleas Court of
St. Louis County.
'The statute of limitations of that State enacts that actions
of this kind shall be brought within five years next after the
cause of action accrues, provided that if any action be commenced within the time prescribed, and the plaintiff therein
"suffer a nonsuit," such plaintiff may commence a new action, within one year from the time of such nonsuit suffered.
Mr, R. D. Hubbard, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court, as follows:
By the demurrer to the replication two questions are presented for our determination: .irst; whether the condition
against the maintenance of any action to recover a claim
upon the policy, unless commenced within twelve months
after the loss, is valid; and Second; whether if valid,. the
condition was complied with in the present case under the
statute of limitations of Missouri.
The objection to the condition is founded upon the notion
that the limitation it prescribes contravenes the p9licy of the
* Haymake -v. Haymaker, 4 Ohio State, 272.

390

1RIDDLESBARuER V. HARTFORD INSURANCE

O.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

statute of limitations. This notion arises from~a misconception of the nature and object of 9tatutes of this character.
They do not confer any right of action. They are enacted
to restrict the period within which the right, otherwise unlimited, might be asserted. They are founded upon the
general experience of mankind that claims, which are valid,
are not usually allowed to remain neglected. The lapse of
years without any attempt to enforce a demand creates,
therefore, a presumption against its original validity, or that
it has ceased to subsist. This presumption is made by these
statutes a positive bar; and they thus 'become statutes of repose, protecting parties from the prosecution of stale claims,
when, by loss of evidence from death of some witnesses, and
the imperfect recollection of others, or the destruction of
documents, it might be impossible to establish the truth.
The policy of these statutes is to encourage promptitude in
the prosecution of remedies. They prescribe what is supposed to be a reasonable period for this purpose, but there
is nothing in their language or object which inhibits parties
from stipulating for a shorter period within which to assert
their respective claims. It 's clearly for the interest of insurance companies that the extent of losses sustained by
them should be speedily ascertained, and it is equally for the
interest of the assured that the loss should be speedily adjusted and paid. The conditions in policies requiring notice
of the loss to be given, and proofs of the-amount to be furnished the insurers within certain prescribed periods, must
be strictly complied with to enable the assured to recover.
And it is not perceived that the condition under consideration stands upon any different footing. The contract of insurance is a voluntary one, and the insurers have a right to
designate the terms upon which they will be responsible for
losses. And it is not an unreasonable term that in case of
a controversy upon a loss resort-shall be had by the assured
to the proper tribunal, whilst the transaction is recent, and
the proofs respecting it are accessible.
A stipulation in a policy to refer all disputes to arbitration stands upon a different footing. That is held invalid.

Dec.1868.] RIDDLESBARGER

V., HARTRORD

INSURANOE Co. 391

Opinion of the court.

because it is an attempt to oust the courts of jurisdiction by
excluding the assured fiom all resort to them for- his remedy.
That is a very different matter from prescribing a period
within which such resort shall be had. The condition in
the policy in this case does not interfere with the authority
of the courts; it simply exacts promptitude on the part of
the assured in the prosecution of his legal remedies, in case
a loss is sustained respecting which a controversy arises
between the parties.
" The statute of Missouri, which allows a party who "suffers
a nonsuit" in an action to bring a new action fbr the same
cause within one year afterwards, does not affect the rights
of the parties in this case. In the first place, the statute only.
applies to cases of involuntary nonsuit, not to cases where
the plaintiff of his own motion dismisses the action. It was
only intended to cover cases of accidental misearriage, as
from defect in the proofs, or in the' parties or pleadings, and
like particulars. In the second place, the rights of the parties
flow from the contract. That relieves them from the general
limitations of the statute, and, as a consequence, from' its
exceptions also.
The action mentioned, which must be commenced within
the twelve months, is the one which is prosecuted to judgment. The failure of a previous action from any cause
cannot alter the case. The contract declares that an action
shall not be sustained, unless such action, not some previous
action, shall be commenced within the period designated.
It makes no provision for any .exception in the event of the
failure of an action commenced, and the court cannot insert
one without changing the contract.
The questions presented in this case, though new to this
court, are not new to the country. Thb validity of the limitation stipulated in conditions similar to the one in the case
at bar, has been elaborately considereq in the highest courts
of several of the States,* and hs been sustained in all of
Insurance Company v. Whitehill, 25 Illinois, 466; Williams V.
*Peoria
Mutual Insurance Company, 20 Vermont, 222; Wilso:i v. Mtna Insurance
Company, 27 Id. 99; N. W. Insurance Company v. Phonix Oil Co., 31

IRAILROAD COMPANY V. HOWARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

them, except in the Supreme Court of Indiana,* which
followed an adverse decision of Mr. Justice McLean in the
Circuit Court for the district of that State.t Its validity has
also been sustained by Mr. Justice Nelson in the Circuit
Court for the District of Connecticut.1
The commencement,
We have no doubt of its validity
period designated
the
therefore, of the present action within
and this
recovery;
plaintiff's
was a condition essential to the
condition was not affected by the fact that the action, which
was dismissed, had been commenced within that period.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HOWARD.
1. -Under the laws of Iowa, a railroad company, having power to issue its
own bonds in order to make its road, may guaranty the bonds of cities
and counties which have been lawfully issued, and are used as the means
of accomplishing the same end.
2. A sale under foreclosure of mortgage of an insolvent railroad company,
expedited and made advantageous bv an arrangement between the mortgagees and the stockholders, under which arrangement the mortgagees,
according to their order, got more or less of their debt (100 to 30 per
cent.), and the stockholders of the company the residue of the proceeds
-a fraction (16 per cent.) of the par of their stock-held fraudulent as
against general creditors not secured by the mortgage, and this although
the road was mortgaged far above its value, and on a sale in open
market did not bring near enough to pay even the mortgage debts; so
Penn~ylvania State, 449; Brown and Wife r. Savannah Insurance Company, 24 Georgia, 101, Portage Insurance Company v. West, 6 Ohio State,
602; Amesbury v. Bowditch Insurance Company, 6 Gray, 603, Fullam v.
New York Insurance Company 7 Gray, 61 Carter v. Humboldt, 12 Iowa,
287, Stout v. City Insurance Company Id. 371, Ripley v. .Etna In-urance Company, 29 Barbour, 552, Gooden v. Amoskeag Qompany, 20 New
Hampshire, 73, Brown v. Roger Williams Company, 5 Rhode Island,,394;
Brown v. Roger Williams Company, 7 Id. 301, Ames v. New York Insurance Company, 4 Kernan, 253.
* The Eagle Insurance Company v. Lafayette Insurance Company, 9 I..
liana, 443.
t French v. Lafayette Insurance Company, 5 McLean, 461.
$ Cray v. Hartford Insurance Company, 1 Blatchford, 280.

