Dec. 1868.]

WHITELY V. SWAYNE.
Statement of the case.,

izing it. The reason of this is obvious. The army and
navy must be fed, and clothed, and cared for at all times
and places, and especially when in distant service. The
army in Mexico or Utah are not to be disbanded anjd'left to
take care of themselves, because the, appropriation by Congress, for the service, has been exhausted, or no law can be
found on the statute book authorizing a contract.for sup-'
pies. The above act confers upon the secretaries f'ull authority to contract for these supplies,.and which bind ther
governnient; and the most ready and convenient md of
accomplishin this, would-be by accepting bills of exchange
drawn by the contractors of the distant army or navy, upon
the secretaries at home:
The credit of the government, thus pledged, would at once,
furnish the necessary subsistence, clothing, and shelter.
Our conclusion is, that the judgment below should be re:
versed, and the cause remitted, with directions to, grant a
new trial, ,and further proofs taken, that complete justice
niay be done between the parties.

WHITELY V. SWAYN1.
-1. Where a patenrt has been granted for improvements, which, after a fiill
and fair trial, resulted in unsuccessful experiments, and have been iinally
abandoned, if any other person takes up the subject, of the improveenReits,
and is successful, he is entitled to the merit of them as an original
inventor,
2. He is the first inventor, and entitled' to the patent, who, being an original
discoverer, has first perfected ancd adapted the invention to actual use.

WHITELY fileda bill against Swayne, in the Circuit Court
for Southern Ohio, to enjoin the use of a certain machine'
known as the Kirbey.Harvester..
As the case was presented in the argument, he relied upon
a patent granted to one Steadman, May 28, 1854, for an improvement in clover and grass-seed harvesters, which had

WHITELY V. SWAYNE.

[Sup-. CL

Opinion of the court.

been assigned to him (Whitely), and surrendered, and three
reissues granted to him on'the 19th Sune, 1860.
The machine complained of, and sought to be enjoined,
'bad been originally patented to one Byron Dinsmore. Dinsmore's specification was sworn to, December 31st, 1850, and
was received at the Patent Office, January 10th, 1851. His
patent was issued February 10th, 1852. He made and tried
one of his machines in 1850, and cut some ten or twenty
acres with it. In 1851 he made twenty-one of them, and
between fifty and sixty of them in the following year. On
the 18th of April, 1852, three moniths after the date of Dinsmores patent, S*teadman filed a caveat in the Patent Office,
in which he stated that he was engaged- in making experiments for perfecting certain improvenients in a machine for
harivesting clover and grass-seed; preparatory.to letters patent therefor. As already stated, this patent was granted
May 23, 1854. Besides the caveat and the patent, there was
an account, given in the testimony, of the working of the
machine, by Mr. Hatch, a neighbor of Steadnman's, who resided in Holley, Orleans County, New York, in 1854. The
machine was tried in. the neighborhood on several occasions in clover fields, but never went into successful practical operation. No machines were ever made under the
patent after the first, which was about the time the patent
was granted. The experiment appeared to have been wholly
given up and abandohed by Steadman as a failure; and it
thus remained for some six years, when the complainant
"Whitely), took from him an assignment of the patent, and
procured the three reissues already referred to.
The bill was dismissed by the court below, and the complainant brought the case here.
Mr. Fisher, for the appellant.
Mr. Wright, contra.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The pla'ntiff's title, and the one upon which he must succeed against the dofendant, if he succeeds at all, rests upon

Dec. 1868.]

WITELY V:, SWAYNE.

Opinionof the court.

a patent for improvements .in a machine for harvesting clover
and grass-beed; which improvements, after a.full and fair
trial, resulted in unsuccessful experiments, and which were
finally abandoned. They never weut into any useful or'
practical operation, and nothing more was heard of-them
from Steadman or any other person, for a period of six
years. At the end of this periiod the plaintiff takes an assignment of the patentee, and is, doubtless, vested'with all
his rights. But what were those rights? Clearly, if any
other person bad chosen to take up the subject of the improvements, where it was left off by Steadman, he had a,
right thus to enter upon it, and if successful, would be entitled to the merit of them as an original inventor, for'he is
the first inventor, and entitled to the patent, who, being an
original discoverer, has first perfected and adapted the invention to actual use.*
Hence, if Dinsmore's patent was later than that of Steadman, and was for similar improvements, iftwould constitute
a perfect defence against the shit in the present case, as the
plaintiff is obliged to rely wholly on this assignment of Stead
man, and stands in his footsteps, and has no better title. But
the fact is otherwise. Dinsmore's invention goes back to the.
year 1850. His first machine, was successfully tried in the
harvest of that year. Some twenty-one were made in the
year 1851, and from fifty to sixty in 1852. Steadman's
caveat was even not filed in the Patent Office till after Dinsmore's patent was issued. The present defendant derives
his title from Dinsmore. The case is too plain to require
any extended examination.
DECREE APFIRMED.

Curtis on Patents,

48, p. 87, and notes.

