MOR OAN v. TOWN CLERK.

' [Sup. Ct.

Statempnt of the case.

proviso contained iii the act of Congress passed for the
relief of the original patentee.
Clear implication from the answer is, that they bad made
rbachinery such as that described in the letters patent, and
if so, then they are clearly liable as infringers, as they werenot incorporated at the date of the extended patent. Machines made since the patent was extended are not protected
by that proviso, as is plain from its language; but the coniplainant cannot recover damages for any infringement antecedent to the date of the reissued patent, as the extended
patent was surrendered.
Proofs of the complainant to show infringement consist
in a comparison of the machines made by the respondents
with.the mechanism described in the patent, and in the testimony of scientific experts, and, they are so entirely satisfaciory, that it is not deemed necessary to pursue the invesfi.gation.
DECREE AFFIRMED

MORGAN V. TOWN CLERK.
3

] y the law, as settled in Wi~consin, a 'provision in a statute under which a

'town issued its bonds to a railroad, that a tax requisite to pay the interest on thes6 bonds should be levied by the supervisors )f the town, is

not exclusive of a right in the town clerk to levy the tax under a
general statute making it his duty to lay a tax to pay all debts of the
town; a mandamus having issued upder the first-act. hut after efforts to
make it productive, having produced nothing.

to the Circuit Court f r Wisconsin.
In 1853, the legislature of Wisconsin authorized the town
of Beloit to issue its coupon bonds for the benefit of a certain railroad. The-town did issue them accordingly; and a
number' of them, with coupons unpaid, having got in the
hands of one Morgan, he brought suit and obtained judgment, against the town.
The statute which authorized the town to issue the bonds
thus enacted:
ERROR

Dec. 1868.J

MORGAN

v.

TOWN CLERK.

Argunient for the defendant in error.

"4The board of supervisors of the town of Beloit, whenever the
same shall become necessary, shall annually levy a tax upon the
taxable property of said town, sufficient to pay the interest upon
such bonds."
The legislature of the same State in 1858 enacted thus:
"lcTo execution shall issue on any judgment against a town,
but the same shall be collected in the manner hereinafter provided.
"Whenever an exemplified copy of any final judgment, rendered by any court of this State, against any town in this State,
together with an affidavit, &c., shall be filed in the office of the
town clerk of the town against which such judgment may have
been rendered, it shall be the duty of the town clerk to proceed to
assess the amount thereof, with interest from the date of such
judgment to the time when the warrant for the collection thereof
will expire, upon the taxable property of said town; and the
same proceedings shall be had thereon, and the same shall be
collected and returned in the same manner as other town taxed,
and shall be paid to the party entitled thereto."
Morgan having obtained, under the act of 1853, a mandamus, attachment, &c., against different boards of supervisors,
which, however, from their resignations, vacation of office;
&c., produced no fruit, he applied to the court below, having
first filed the required exemplification, affidavit,. &c., for a
mandamus on the town clerk, under the last quoted act, to
compel him to levy a tax. The court below refused to grant
the mandamus asked for, on the ground, as was said, that
the act of 1853 provided a special remedy exclusive of the
general one of the act of 1858. Whether it did so or not,
was now the question on appeal.
Mr. Czrpenter, for the plaintiff in error, contended that he
had pxhausted his remedy under the act of 1853; and that
he might seek relief under both acts until he obtained one
satisfaction.
Alessrs. Palmer and Ryan, contra:
This is not a case of alternative remedies, of which the re

1612

MORGAN

v. Town,

CLERK,

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion )f the cour'

lator has an election. He' cad' have but one payment, levied
by one tax, once assessed. And if it be the duty of the supervisors to levy the tax, it cannot be the duty of the clerk.
The special act, providing for the special tax, to pay these
special liabilities, to be levied by the supervisors, takes this
judgment out of the general act, providing for the assessment of a tax by the clerk, to pay other judgments -against
towns. The relator should have applied in the court below
for mandamus against the supervisors, and not against the
clerk.
Mr. Justice BWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 9th of January, 1861, the plaintiff in error recovered a judgment against the defendant in error for $1540
damages, and for costs. The cause of action was overdue
interest coupons attached to bonds issued by the town of Beloit in payment of its subscription to the stock of the Racine,
Janesville, and Mississippi Railroad Company, pursuant to
chapter 12 of the local and private laws of Wisconsin, passed
in 1853. The plaintiff in error instituted the proceedings ia
the court below to obtain a writ of mandamus, directed to
the town clerk of the defendant, 6ommanding him to assess
the amount necessary to pay the judgment and interest, upon
the taxable property of the town, and to place the assessment upon the next assessment and tax roll for collection.
AL statute of Wisconsin* forbids the issuing of an execution
against a town, and expressly prescribes this mode of procedure.
Ample authority to issue the writ is given by the statute.
The proceedings on the part of the plaintiff in error are in
all -thingsin strict conformity to its requirements. The power
of the Circuit Court to issue writs of mandamus to State officers in, proper cases is no longer an open question in this
court; and it has been repeatedly held to be an appropriate
remedy in the class of cases, to which the one lying at the
Ch. 15,

77, Revised Statutes of 1858, p. 186.

D c. 1868.] 'MORGAN ?..BELOIT,

CITY 'AND

TowN.

Syllabus..

foundation of this proceeding elongs.* We learn from the
record that the court below denied the Writ upon the ground'
that the statute under which the bonds were issued, providedthat the requisite tax should be levied by the supervisors of the town, and that this remedy was exclusive of
all others. '.There are several obvious answers to this view
of the subject. ,We'deem it sufficient to advert to one of.
them. In the case of -Bushnell v. Gatest this precise qubs-.
tion, arising under the same circumstances, came before the
Supreme Court of Wisconsin. It was held that the objection
was untenable, that the statute authorizing the writ to go
against the town clerk applied to th6 case, and that it was
conclusive. If there could otherwise have been any doubt
upon the question, this' determination by the highest court.
of the State giving a construction to the statute under consideration, is unanswerable. We need not further consider
the subject.
* The judgment below is REVERSED. A mandate will be
sent to the Circuit Court, directing that an order be entered
in the case
IN

MORGAN

v.

CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

BELOIT, CITY AND TowN.

Where the legislature creates a city, carving it out of a region previously
a town only, and enacts that all bonds which bad been previously issued
by the town should be paid when the same fell due, by the cit and town,
in the same proportions as if said town and city were not dissolved, and.
that if either at any time pays more than its proportion, the other shall
be liable therefor, a bill will lie in equity to enforce payment by the
two bodies respectively,.in the proportion which the assessment rolls
The Commissioners of Knox Co. V. Aspinwall, 24 Howard, 376; Von
Hoffman v. The City of Quincy, 4 Wallace, 535; Riggs v. Johnson County,
6 ld. 166.
t Not yet reported,

