Dec. 1868.]'

961

KELLOGG V.'UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.'

doubt. "Nothing leqs,'- says Sir William Scott, "than an
uncontrollable necessity, which admits of no' cormpromise,
And cannot be resisted," will be held a justification of the
offence. Any rule less stringent than this would open the
door to all sorts of fraud. Attempted evasions ofthe blockade would be excused upon pretences of distress and danger,'
not warranted by the facts, but the falsity of which it would
be difficult to expose.

The decree of the court below must be

REVERSED,

and that

court directed to enter a decree condemning the vessel and
cargo as lawful prize; and it is
So ORDERED.

]KELLOGG V. UNITED STATES.
An officer of the United States, under authority of Congress, made a contract
- with D. and S., by which they agreed to furnish bricks to the government. The contract contained a clause that D. and S. should not sub-let
or assign it. D. and S. having abandoned-the'contract, it was taken, up,,
with the consent of the officer representing the goverpment, by M. and
A., the sureties of D. and S. to the government for its perfornance. M.
and A, then entered into a contract with K., by which he undertook to
perform the contract and to receive payment therefor from the United
States at the contract price, and to pay over to M. and A. a certain
percentage of the am6unt received, M. and A. constituting him, at the
same time, their attorney to furnish the bricks and to receive paymeht.
The government, desiring to abandon their enterprise, proposed to all
parties respectively interestedon accountof their contract, &c., that if they
would cancel it, the United States would settle with them ",on the principles of justice and equity" all damages, &c., incurred, by them. Held,
that K. was not a party to, nor interested in the contract.

APPEAL

from the Court of Claims.

By an act of March 8d, 1853, Congress authorized the
commencement of an aqueduct to supply Washington with
water. Captain Meigs was appointed to superintend the
work.
In January, 1854, Captain Meigs, on behalf of the United

KELLOGG V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

States, entered'into a contract with Degges & Smith, by
which they agreed to furnish for the"work a certain number
of bricks, for'which the United States agreed to pay at a
specified rate per thousand. To secure performance, Degges
& Smith gave bond, with Mechlin & Alexander as sureties.
The contract between Captain Meigs and Degges & Smith
contained a provision that neither the contract, nor any part of
it, should be "sub-let or assigned."
In March, 1855, Congress having appropriated a certain
sum for continuing, the work, Captain Meigs gave notice
to Degges & Smith, and also to their sureties, Mechlin &
Alexander, that there would be required for the work of
that season, a portion of the bricks. To this notice Degges
& Smith made no response, but abandoned their undertaking, and failed to comply with their contract.
Degges & Smith having thus made default, Mechlin &
.Ajexander, in order to save themselves from prosecution
on their bond, entered into an arrangement with Captain
Meigs, by which they assumed the contract which had been
made with Degges & Smith.
Mechlin & Alexander, accordingly, made preparations for
the manufacture of the bricks necessary to fulfil their contract; but before completing their arrangements, they, in
March, 1856, entered into a contract with one Kellogg, by
which he undertook to furnish all the bricks required, and
to receive payment therefor from the United States at the
contract price, and to pay over to Mechlin & Alexander,
5 per cent. .f the amount so received; and Mechlin & Alexander by deed constituted him their lawful attorney to furnish
the bricks, and to receive payment therefor.
Kellogg continued to furnish bricks, as the agent of Xechlin J.Alexander, during the summer of 1856, until what remained of the appropriationis for the building of the aqueduct was exhausted, when he received notice from Captain
Meigs not to make or deliver any more.
On the 3d of March, Congress passed a joint resolution,
containing a proposition to "all parties tespectively interested
on account of their contract for manufacturing bricks for the

Dec. 1868.]

]KELLOGG V. 'UITED STATES.
:Opinicn of the court.

Washington aqueduct," that, ii they would cancel it, the
United States would settle with them, "on the principles
of justice and equity, all damages, losses, and liabilities
incurred, by said parties respectively on account of their
contract."
After the passage of this resolution, Mechlin & Alexander,
and Kellogg, also accepted the proposition, and capcelled the
6ontract.
Upon this, the- Secretary of the Treasury proceeded to
make the settlement contemplated by said joint 'resolution,
and awarded to Mechlin & Alexander, as the only persons
included in the provisions of the resolution, $29,534. Of the sum
so awarded by the secretary to Mechlin & Alexander, Kellogg, accepting it under protest, received $10,476, as the
amount he was entitled to receive under his contract with
Mechlin & Alexander.
,Kellogg now filed his petition in the court below, setting
forth the facts above stated, and insistiiig that the award of
the said sum of money to Mechlin & Alexander, and the
exclusion of him from the benefits of the resolution by the
secretary, was erroneous, and contrary to the intent of the
resolution; and that the secretary should have awarded him,
as the amount he was entitled to receive under the resolution, as "a party interefted in said contract," the sum of
$62,692; to recover which sum and interest, amounting in
all to $91,389, the suit was instituted.
To this petition the United States demurred; and the demurrer having been sustained by the Court of Claims and
the petition dismissed, the case was now here on appeal.
liessrs. Carlisle and McPherson, for the claimant, Kellogg.
Mr. Talbot, contra.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The case, well stated by the reporter, sufficiently demonstrates, that there was no error in the decision of the Court
of Claims.sustaining the demurrer to the plaintiff's petition.

EX PARTE BRADLEY.

[SUP. Ct

Syllabus.

The claimant has not shown that he was ever known or
recognized by the United States as one of the parties to, or
as interested in, the contract made by Captain Meigs, on'behalf of the United States, for furnishing bricks for the construction of the Washington aqueduct. That contract provides that it should not be sub-let or assigned.
The petition shows that the claimant was acting under a
contract with Mechlin & Alexander (who were the sureties
for the fulfilment of the contract of Degges & Smith), and
not under a contract with the United States, and was recognized only as agent, attorney-in-fact, or employg of the sureties; and that under the resolution of Congress, approved
March 3d, 1857, by which the Secretary of the Treasury was
authorized to settle with all the parties, respectively, in the
contract, the claimant was not included, because he was no
party to it either originally or by substitution.
The award made by the Secretary of the Treasury, and
the payment of the money under it, were in strict accordance
with the provisions of the resolution. The secretary properly declined to settle the account between Mechlin & Alexander as to how the money so paid should be divided between
them' and their agent. Of this sum the petitioner received
$10,476, which he accepted, "under protest; "-which could
only mean saving his right to importune Congress or the
Court of Claims for more. This has occasionally proved a
valuable privilege. But something more is necessary to
recover in a'court of justice.
JUDGIMENT AFFIRMED.

Ex

PARTE BRADLEY.

1. The Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, as organized by the act
of March 3, 1863, is a different court from the criminal court as fixed

by the same act, though the latter court is held by a judge of the former.
Hence the former court has no power to disbar an attorney for a contempt of the latter.
2 An attorney cannot be disbarred for misbehavior in his office of an attorney generally, upon the returnof a rule issued against him for con-

