Dec. 1868.]

TYleR vi BOSTON,
Statement of the case.',

elusively as restrictions upon Federal power," was declared
in Fox v. Ohio, to be "the only rational and intelligible interpretation which these amendments can have."* And
language equally decisive if less emphatic, may be found in
Smith v. The State of Marylandt and Withers v. .Buckley and
others.
-.
In the views thus stated and supported we entirely concur.
They apply to the sixth as fully as to any bther of the amendments. It is certain that we can acquire no jurisdiction of
the case of the petitioner by writ of error, and we are obfliged,
therefore to
REFUSE THE -WRIT.

TYLER V. BOSTON.
1. When a patent is claimed'for a discovery of a new substance by means of
chemical combinations of known materials, it should state the component parts of the new manufacture claimed, With clearness and precision.
and not leave the person attempting to use the discovery to find it out
by "experiment."
2. The doctrine of equivalents as applied to chemical inventions explained,
and the distinction between mechanical inventions and chemical discoveries, where experiment is required to ascertain the effect of chemical
substances, pointed'out.
3. Whether one compound of given proportions is substantially the same as
another compound varying the proportions, is a question for the jury.

TYLER brought uit, in the Circuit Court for Massachusetts,
against the city of Boston, for infringement of a patent; the
case being this:
The plaintiff jrofessed to have discovered a new compound
substance, being a combination of fusel oil with the mineral
and earthy oils, which compound constitutes a burning fluid,
"by which term," he says, "I mean a liquid which will burn
ibr the purpose of illumination, without material smoke, in
a lamp with a small solid wick, and without a chiLmney."
The claim of his patent which the defendant was charged
"* 5 Howard, 434.

t 18 Id. 76.

1:20 Id. 90.

328

TYLER v. BostoN.

.[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.
/

with infringing, was "the compound produced by the combination of the mineral or earthy oils with fusel oil, in the
manner and for the purpose substantially as herein set forth;
said compound constituting a new manufacture."
The component parts of this new manufacture were described as "by measure crude fusel oil one part, kerosene one
part." This combination, the patent stated, might be varied
by the substitution of naphtha or crude petroleun in place
of kerosene, or a part of the kerosene by an equal quantity of
naphtha or crude petroleum; "the exact quantity of fusel oil
which is necessary to produce the most desirable compound
must be determined by experiment."
The defendants used a burning fluid composed of naphtha
seventy-two and fusel oil twenty-eight parts; and experts,
chemists, proved that seventy-two parts in bulk'of naphtha
waos the substantialequivalent of twenty-eight parts of kerosene.
The court below charged the jury, "that the patentee, in
suggesting that naphtha might be substituted for kerosene,
intended to describe the same proportion in the combination," and "that the jury should understand the construction
of the suggested substitution, to wit, naphtha for kerosene, as
contemplating the same proportion of the two ingredientsthat is, one and one, or fifty per cent. of one, and fifty per
cent. of the other."
It charged further, that "whether one compound of given
proportions is substantially the same as another compound
varying in the proportions-whether they are substantially
the same or substantially different-is a question of fact, and
for the jury."
Under this charge the jury found for the defendant; and
the case was now here on error.
Mr. Maynadier,for the plabiff in error,contended, that the
construction given by-the court to the patent was erroneous,
and that in view of the evidence as to the true relations and
characters of the various oils, the claim should be construed
to cove not only a compound composed of the particular in-

Dec. 1868.]

TYLER

v.

BOSTON.

829

Argument for the defendant in error.

gredients in the proportionate bulks specially named in the
specification (that is to say, crude fusel oil, one part by measure, and kerosene of the grade there described, one part by
.measure), and all other compounds composed of these ingredients in substantially the same proportionate bulks;, but,
in additioh, all other compounds whose ingredients are any,
of the earthy or mineral oils, and any of the fasel oils, provided the quantity by measure of the mineral oil or oils
used were ascertained to be substantially 'equal in character,
or eqiuivalent to the prescribed proportion of the prescribed
grade of kerosene; and the quantity by measure of the fusel
oil used were in like measure ascertained, to be equal to the
prescribed proportion of the prescribed crude fusel oil.
The whole spirit of the patent; in view of the perfectly
well-known relations of naphtha and kerosene, and of refined
and crude fusel oil, warrants the construction contended for,
and there is notb;ng in the.letter which militates against it,
unless the statement that "a part of the kerosene may be
replaced by an equal quantity of naphtha, or crhde petroleumi"
be construed to mean an equal quantity in bulk, which would
make the statement false, and one that all persons skilled in
the art wbuld know to be false; while if "equal" be construed to mean "equal in character," or "equivalent," the
statement is true, and in harmony with the rest of the specification, and with the chemical facts of the case.
Mr; .obb, contra:
The instruction given was correct. "The language used
by the patentee in describing his invention and the manner
of comp6undiug the same, is "full, clear and exact," in
.view of. that construction adopted 5y the court below. To
give it the construction contended for by the plaintiff, theobviou s import of the terms used must be disregarded, and
the same word must be taken in different senses, in the.
same setence; that is, the word "quantity," when used in
reference to fasel oil, alcohol; or kerosene, means measure;.
but when used in reference to naphtha or petroleum, it must
*be taken to mean weight.

TYLER- v. BOSTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ir:-Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The patent states that "the exact quantity of fusel oil
which is necessary to produce the most desirable compound
must be determined by experiment."
Now aimachine which consists-of a combination of devices
is the subject of invention, and its effects may be calculated
a priori, while a disco'very of a hew substance by means of
chemical combinations of known materials is empirical and
discovered by experiment. Where a patent is claimed for
such a discovery, it should state the component parts of the
new manufacture claimed with clearness and precision, and
not leave the person attempting to use the discovery to find
it out "by experiment." The law requires the applicant
for a patent-right to deliver a written description of the mannel and process of making and compounding his new-discovered compound. The art is new; and therefore persons
comnot be presumed to be skilled in it, or to anticipate the
result of chemicM combinations of elements not in daily
use.
The defendants used a burning-fluid composed of fiaphtha
seventy-two and fusel oil twenty-eight parts; and expert
chemists proved that seventy-two parts in bulk of naphtha was
the substantial equivalent of twenty-eight parts of kerosene.
This term "equivalent," when speaking of machines, has a
certain definite meaning; but when used with regard to the
chemical action of such fluids as can be discovered only by
experiment, it only means equally good. But while the specification of the patent suggests the substitution of naphtha fbr
crude petroleum, it prescribes no other proportion than that
of equal parts by measure. The explanation that the "kerosene must be replaced by an equal quantity of npphtha" does
not alter the case.
The charge which the court gave is a clear and intelligi-"
ble statement of the principles of law which should govern
the jury in making up their verdict. It said properly, that
"whether 'one compound of given proportions is substan-'
tially the same as another compound varying in the pro-

ID~c. 1868*1

'GRANT V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

portions-whether they are substantially the same or subbtanitially different-is a question of fact and for the jury:"
If the jury in flnding for the defendants have erred, the
this court.
remedy is not in.
JUDGMENT AFFIRUED.

GRANT V. UNITED STATES.
1. An "inspection' at the place of shipping instead of at the place'of delivery,
by the officers of the United States, of supplies which a contractor has
agreed to deliver at a distant point, does not pass the property to the
United States so as to relieve the contractor from his obligation tq de'liver at such distant point.
2. Where a contract with the government to furnish to it supplies does not
stipulate for an inspection at a place earlier than the place of delivery,
it is optional with the contractor whether he will have the goods inspected at such earlier place.
3. Where a delay by the government in making-an inspection of supplies,
agreed to be made at the place of shipping instead of at the place of delivery, is not the proximate cause of a.loss of the supplies afterwards
suffered, the loss must -be borne by the party in whom the title to the
supplies is vested; and, if still in the contractor, by him.
4. This rule applies even where supplies have been seized by the public
enemy without any default of the owner.
5. Where the government makes a contract with arl individual that he shall
furnish all spplie3 needed at a certain post, and afterwards rescinds the
cortract, the individual cannot recover from thegovernment for a breach
of the contract unless he prove that supplies were needed at' the post
designated.
6. The Court cf Claims was not instituted to try cases of mere nominal
damages.
APPEAL from the Court' of Claims; in which court Grant,
for himself, and as assigiee of one Taliafero, a former paritnor, had filed a petition claiming reimbursement and damages from the United States. The case was this:
On the 9th of March, 1860, the Secretary of War, at that
time Mr. Floyd, addressed an order to the QuartermasterGeneral and Commissary-General of Subsistence, granting
to the said Taliafero and Grant ihe privilege of furnishing

