OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

OREGON SHORT LINE AND UTAH NORTHERN
RAILWAY COMPANY v. SKOTTOWE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON.
No. 147. Argued March 17, 1896. -Decided

April 20, 1896.

This case comes within the established rule that on an application for removal from a state to a
Federal character of the
complaint in the action, in
question or character does

Federal court, the Federal question or the
defendant company must appear from the
order to justify a removal; and such Federal
not appear in this case.

THIS was an action brought in the circuit court of the
State of Oregon for Wasco county by Jane Skottowe,
against the Oregon Short Line and Utah Northern Railway
Company, for personal injuries alleged to have been caused
by the negligence of the defendant company. The complaint
was filed on October 31, 1890, and on November 10, 1890,
the defendant filed a petition for the removal of the cause
from the state court into the Circuit Court of the United
States. This petition was denied; to which ruling the defendant excepted.
The case was proceeded in, and trial on the merits in the
state court resulted in a verdict and judgment in favor of
the plaintiff in the sum of $10,000. To this judgment a writ
of error was sued out to the Supreme Court of the State of
Oregon, assigning as error, among others, the action- of the
trial court in denying the defendant's petition for the removal
of the cause into the Circuit Court of the United States.
The Supreme Court of the State affirmed the judgment of
the trial court, and a writ of error was allowed to this court.
Mr.John M. Thur ton for plaintiff in error. AMr. John F.
Dillon was on his brief.
The complaint alleges "that the defendant is a corporation
duly organized, existing and doing business in the State of
Oregon, and as such corporation is and was, at all the times

OREGON SHORT LINE &c. R'Y v. SKOTTOWE.

491

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

and dates hereinafter mentioned, and long prior thereto, in
the operation of a line of railroad, running from Portland,
Oregon, to The Dalles and* Pendleton, Oregon, and other
places far east, generally known as the Oregon Railway and
Navigation Company's ]ine of road, and in connection therewith and incident thereto has been for such time and now is
in the possession of and operating a line of boats running
from The Dalles, Oregon, to Portland, Oregon, together with
all the bridges, wharf boats, ways, etc., used in getting to and
from the landings of the aforesaid line of boats, and had been
and was and still is carrying passengers thereon as a common
carrier for hire."
It will be noticed that the character of the incorporation is
not specifically stated, nor is any reference made to its articles
or place of incorporation; and it will doubtless be contended
that the plaintiff in her complaint did not allege or tender
the corporate character or charter powers of the Oregon
Short Line and Utah Northern Railway Company.
We
insist, however, that a bill of complaint which alleges that
the defendant is an incorporated company, tenders, without
any further or additional allegation, the charter or articles of
incorporation of the corporation, includibgo-all those statutes
and grants of power under and by virtue of which it acquired
the right to become a corporation and to exercise corporate
powers and privileges.
It must be held that the *complaint alleges all -those facts
which it would be necessary for the plaintiff to prove were
each and every allegation of the complaint denied by answer.
For the purposes of determining as to whether or not the defendant could remove on the ground that the suit was one
arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States
(as the petition for removal must be filed on or before the
answer day), it must'be assumed that the cause of action upon
which suit is brought arises upon all the facts which it would
be necessary for the plaintiff to prove to maintain her cause
of action, and among the most important of those facts are
the corporate existence, the corporate character, and the corporate.powers of the defendant.

OCTOBER TER-,

1895.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The corporate existence of the defendant can only be shown
by its charter or articles of incorporation and by reference to
the statute or statutes authorizing it to become a corporation.
A corporation cannot exist as such except by authority of law.
To prove a corporation is to prove the law of its creation, and
an allegation of corporate existence and capacity is an allegation of its charter and the law of its charter. No cause of
action can be proven against an alleged corporation until the
corporate existence, the corporate powers and the corporate
duties are first proven; and therefore in every petition or
complaint filed against an alleged incorporated company, its
articles of incorporation and the law of its existence are necessarily tendered as a part of the issue, and whatever cause of
action is set up against the defendant is a cause of action arising under whatever law authorized the formation of the corporation, defined its powers, and prescribed its obligations.
All this is important, because it will be contended upon the
other side that the complain.t filed in the state court does not
disclose a cause of action arising under any law of the United
States, and therefore under the decision of this court in Tennessee v. Union.& Planters' Bank, 152 U. S. 454, and in Chappell v. llfaterworth, 155 U. S. 102, the cause was not removable
under the act of August 13, 1888.
It seems to us that the case at bar is clearly distinguishable
from those above cited. It is well settled that the Circuit
Court of the United States has jurisdiction of a suit against a
corporation created by or exercising powers and franchises derived from the statutes of the United States, and therefore the
plaintiff can invoke the jurisdiction of the Federal court by
alleging that the defendant is a corporation created under a
law of the United States; as no liability can be established
against such a corporation without involving a consideration
and determination as to the powers conferred and corresponding obligations and duties imposed by the Federal act. An
alleged cause of action which would entitle the plaintiff to
bring his suit in the Circuit Court of the United States would
be such a one as the defendant could remove to the Circuit
Court of the United States. Can it be contended that a plain.

OREGON SHORT LINE &c. R'Y v. SKOTTOWE.

493

Opinion of the Court.

tiff may bring a cause of action and establish a liability against
an alleged corporation, defendant, without submitting to the
court a consideration of the charter powers and duties of such
defendant? If so, then it is optional with the plaintiff, not
only to choose for himself a tribunal, national or state, but to
choose also for the corporation, defendant. If every cause of
action against a corporation created under Federal enactment
involves the consideration of its Federal powers, is it possible
that the plaintiff's cause of action against it does not arise
under the laws of the United States, because the plaintiff elects
to allege that the defendant is an incorporation; without alleging the character of such incorporation, or the laws under
which it acquired the right to be a corporation?
-Mr?. Alfied S. Bennett for defendant in error.
MP. JUSTICE SHBRAS, after, stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
In the complaint the defendant was described as "a corporation duly organized, existing and doing business in the State
of Oregon." The accident which caused plaintiff's injuries
was alleged to have taken place at The Dalles on the Columbia
River, and within the State of Oregon.
In the removal petition the defendant was alleged to be a
consolidated company, composed of several railway corporations severally organized' and created under the laws of the
Territories of Utah and Wyoming and of the State of Nevada,
and under an act of Congress, approved August 2, 1882, c. 372,
22 Stat. 185, entitled "An act creating the Oregon Short Line
Railway Company, a corporation in the Territories of Utah,
Idaho and Wyoming, and for other purposes," and an act of
Congress, approved June 20,1878, c. 352, 20 Stat. 241, making
the Utah and Northern Railway Company, a railway corporation in the. Territories of Utah, Idaho and Montana.
It was not claimed, either in the petition for removal or in
the answer subsequently filed, that the defendant company had
any special defence arising under the acts of Congress, which

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

constituted a Federal question over which the courts of the
United States had exclusive jurisdiction; but the contention
is that if any of the corporate powers of a railroad company
depend upon the legislation bf Congress, the right of removal
exists.
Congress has frequently conferred upon railway companies,
existing under territorial or state laws, additional corporate
franchises, rights and privileges, and its right to do so cannot
be doubted. Thus it Was held, in Californiav. Pacific Railroad (Jompany, 127 U. S. 1, 39, that Congress possessed and
validly exercised the power to create a system of railroads connecting the East with the Pacific coast, traversing States as
well as Territories, and to employ the agency of state as well
as Federal corporations.
And it must also be conceded that it was decided in the
PaciicRailroad Removal cases, 115 U. S. 1, that where cor-

porations created by acts of Congress have become consolidated with state corporations, and where "the whole being,
capacities, authority and obligations of companies so consolidated are so based upon, permeated by and enveloped -in the
acts of Congress that it is impracticable, so far as the operations and transactions of the companies are concerned, to disentangle their qualities and capacities which have their source
and foundatibn in these acts from those which ar6 derived
from state or territorial authority," that suits by and against
such corporations are "suits arising under the laws of the
United States," and removable as such from state courts into
Circuit Courts of the United States.
Even if the acts of Congress of June 20, 1878, and August
2, 1882, so far conferred substantial rights and privileges upon
the territorial and state corporations, consolidated as the Oregon Short Line and Utah Northern Railway Company, as to
bring that company within the doctrine of the Pacific Railroad Removal cases, yet we think that the present case comes
within the rule that the Federal question, or the Federal character of the defendant company, must appear from the complaint in the action in order to justify a removal, and that
such Federal question or character does not so appear.

OREGON SHORT LINE &c. R'Y v. SKOTTOWE.

495

Opinion of the Court.

There is no propriety in further considering that rule, because the reasons of it were fully set forth in the case of
Tennessee v. Union & Planters'Bank, 152 U. S. 454, and again
in the very recent cases of Chappell.v. lVaterworth, 155 U.- S.
102; East Lake Land Co. v. Brown, 155 U. S. 488; and
Postal Tel. Cable Cb. v. Alabama, 155 U. S. 482.
The conclusion reached in those cases may be briefly stated
thus: Under the acts of March 3, 1887, c. 373, 24: Stat. 55,
and August 13, 1888, c. 866, 25 St at. 4335 a case (not depending
on the citizenship of the parties, nor otherwise specially provided for) caninot be removed from a state court into the Circuit Court of the United States, as one arising under the
.,Constitution, laws or treaties of the United Statesunless that
appears by the plaintiff's statement of his own claim; and
that, if it does not so appear, the want cannot be supplied by
any statement in the petition for removal or in the subsequent
pleadings.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error do not seek, as we
understand them, to obtain a reconsideration of this question,
but they advance an ingenious argument to distinguisli the
present from those cases. It is claimed that when a bill of
complaint or declaration alleges that the defendant is an incorporated company it thereby tenders, or implicitly alleges,
the charter or articles of incorporation of the corporation, including all these statutes and grants of power under and by
virtue of which it acquired the right to become a corporation
and to exercise corporate powers and privileges. In the words
of the plaintiff's brief: "It must be held that the complaint
alleges all these facts which it would be necessary for the
plaintiff to prove were each and every allegation of the complaint denied by answer. For the purposes of determining as
to whether or not the defendant could remove on the ground
that the suit was.one arising under the Constitution and laws
of the United States (as the petition for removal must be filed
on or before the answer day), it must be assumed that the
cause of action upon which the suit is brought arises upon
all the facts which it would be necessary for the plaintiff to
prove to maintain his cause of action, and among the-most

OCTOBER TERVr, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

important of those facts are the corporate existence, the corporate character, and the corporate powers of the defendant
company."
Applying these propositions to the case in hand, it is contended that, when the plaintiff alleged in her complaint that
"the defendant is a corporation duly organized, existing and
doing business in the State of Oregon, and as such corporation
is and was, at all the times and dates hereinafter mentioned
and long prior thereto, in the operation of a railroad running
from Portland, Oregon, to The Dalles and Pendleton, Oregon,
and other places further east, generally known as the Oregon
Railway and Navigation Company's line of road, and in connection therewith and incident thereto has been for such time
and now is in the possession of and operating a line of boats
running from The Dalles, Oregon, to Portland, Oregon, together with all the bridges, wharf boats, ways, .etc., used in
getting to and from the landings of the aforesaid line of
boats, and had been and was and still is carrying passengers
for hire thereon as a common carrier for hire," she must be
deemed to have thus alleged, and brought to the knowledge
of the court, the entire legal history of the defendant company, its various component parts, with their several acts of
incorporation, and particularly the two acts of Congress before referred to, and that, with this information thus spread
before it, the court was obliged to perceive that the defendant
company was within the rule ld down in the Paciic Removal cases, and entitled to remove the case into the Circuit
Court of the United States.
We think the unsoundness of the proposition relied on by
the plaintiff in error may be sufficiently shown by the very
test which its counsel suggest, namely, what facts would it be
necessary for the plaintiff to prove to maintain her action ?
Suppose the complaint in the present case to have been traversed by a plea of the general issue, would it have been necessary for the plaintiff to prove any other facts than those
alleged? Evidence tending to show that a company, styled
the Oregon Short Line and Utah Northern Railway Company
was operating and conducting a line of railroad between Port-

OREGON SHORT LINE &c. P'Y v. SKOTTOWE.

497

Opinion of the Court.

land, Oregon, and The Dalles, Oregon, as a common carrier
for hire; that the plaintiff, as a passenger for hire, whs injured while in the lawful use. of such railroad; that the
injuries were caused by the defendant's negligence, and the
nature and extent of the injuries, thus caused, would, if believed by the jury, have clearly sustained the material allegations of the complaint. To justify a recovery in such a case
it would not be necessary for the plaintiff to allege or to prove
the extent and nature of the defendant's corporate powers.
The defendant's liability did not arise out of its grants of
rights and privileges from the several Territories or from the
United States. It grew out of its negligence and misconduct
in the management of a railroad in.the State of Oregon, into
which State" it is not pretended, that it entered by reason of
anything contained in any act of Congress.
It is urged that, as the plaintiff alleged that the defendant
was "a corporation 'duly organized, existing and doing business in the State of -Oregon," there would have been a fatal
failure in the proof if no evidence was adduced to show the
nature and character of the plaintiff's charter. We do n 6 t
think so. As already said, those allegations were sufficiently
sustained by evidence of- the defendant's actual operation and
management of the railroad. Whether the defendant was a
corporation de jure or do facto was, in a case like the present,
of no importance- If the plaintiff had actually undertaken to
show the true character and extent of the defendant's corporate powers as a lawfully organized company and had failed
to show such an organization, such failure would not have
defeated her -recovery if her other allegations had been made
good.
But even if the court was obliged, under- the allegations of
the plaintiff's complaint, to take judicial notice of the defendant company's charter, no act of Congress was pointed out under
which it was acting when operating the railroad in the State
of Oregon. So far as appears, the defendant company existed
and was doing business in the State of Oregon solely under
the authority of that State, whether express or permissive.
The two acts of Cong(ress referred to do not disclose -any inVOL. CLXu-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Counsel for Parties.

tention on the part of Congress to confer powers or right to
be exercised outside of the Territories named therein.
The Supreme Court of Oregon committed no error in
affirming the action of the trial court, denying the petition for
removal, and its judgment is
Affirmed.
OREGON SHORT LINE

v. MULLAN.
Oregon. No. 148.
PANY

AND

UTAH

NOR-THERN

RAILWAY

CoBT-

Error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Argued with No. 147.

MR.JUSTICE SHIRAS: The facts of this case are similar to those
of the case of The Oregon Short Line and Northern 1Railway Company v. Jane Skottowe, just decided, and for the reasons there given
the judgment of the Supreme Court of Oregon is
Affirmed.
Mr. John M. Thurston for plaintiff in error.
was on his brief.

3r. John F. Dillon

Mr. Alfred S. Bennett for defendant in error.

OREGON SHORT'LINE AND UTAH NORTHERN
RAILWAY COMPANY v. CONLIN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON.
No. 229. Argued March 17,
1896. -Decided

April 20, 1696.

Oregon Short Line and Utah NVorthern .Railay Company v. Skottowe, 162
U. S.492, affirmed and followed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr.. John .M. Thurston, (with whom was
Dillon on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.

.M . Ayfred S. Bennett for defendant in error.

Xr. 7ohn F.

