CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
ORIGINAL.
No.8.

Original. Argued October 23, 24, 25, 1895.-Decided March 16, 1896.

The treaty between the United States and Spain, made in 1819, and ratified
in 1821, provided that "the boundary line between the two countries, west
of the Mississippi, shall begin on the Gulf of Mexico, at the mouth of the
river Sabine, in the sea, continuing north, along the western bank of the
river to the 32d degree of latitude; thence, by a line due north, to the degree of latitude where it strikes the Rio Roxo of Natchitoches, or Red
River; then following the course of the Rio Roxo, westward, to the degree of longitude 100 west from London and 23 from Washington; then,
crossing the said Red River, and running thence, by a line due north, to
the river Arkansas; thence, following the course of the southern bank
of the Arkansas, to its source, in latitude 42 north; and thence, by that
parallel of latitude, to the South Sea. The whole being as laid down in
Melish's map of the United States, published at Philadelphia, improved
to the first of January, 1818." Held,
(1) That the intention of the two governments, as gathered from the
words of the treaty, must control, and that the map to which the
contracting parties referred is to, be given the same effect as if it
had been expressly made a part of the treaty;
(2) But, looking at the entire instrument, it is clear that, while the parties took the Melish map, improved to 1818, as a basis for the final
settlement of the question of boundary, they contemplated, as
shown by the fourth article of the treaty, that the line was subse1
VOL. CLXUI-1

OCTOBER TERIVI, 1895.
Statement of the Case.
quently.to be fixed with more precision by commissioners and surveyors representing the respective countries;
(3) That the reference in the treaty to the 100th meridian was to that
meridian astronomically located, and not necessarily to the 100th
meridian as located on the 'Melish map;
(4) That the Melish map located the 100th meridian far east of where
the true 100th meridian is, when properly delineated;
(5) That the Compromise Act of September 9, 1850, and the acceptance of its provisions by Texas, together with the action of tle
two governments, require that, in the determination of the present question of boundary between the United States and Texas,
the direction in the treaty, "following the course of the Rio Roxo
westward to the degree of longitude 100 west from London," must
be interpreted as referring to the true 100th meridian, and, consequently, the line " westward" must go to that meridian, and not
stop at the Melish 100th meridian;
(6) That Prairie Dog Town Fork of Red River is the continuation, going
from east to west, of the Red River of the treaty, and the line, going from east to west, extends up Red River and along the Prairie
Dog Town Fork of Red River to the 100th meridian, and not up
the North Fork of Red River;
(7) That the act of Congress of February 24, 1879, c. 97, creating the
Northern Judicial District of Texas, is to be construed as placing
Greer County in that district for judicial purposes only, and not as
ceding to Texas the territory embraced by that county.
The territory east of the 100th meridian of longitude, west and south
of the river now known as the North Fork of Red River, and north of a
line following westward, as prescribed by the treaty of 1819 between
the United States and -Spain, the course, and along th9 south bank, both
of Red River and the river nowknown as the Prairie Dog Town Fork
or South Fork of Red River until such line meets the 100th meridian of
longitude- which territory is sometimes called Greer County- constitutes no part of the territory properly included within or rightfully belonging to Texas at the time of the admission of that State into the
Union, and is not within the limits nor under the jurisdiction of that,
State, but.is subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States of
America:
Each party will pay its own costs.

By the act of May 2, 1890, c. 182, § 25, 26 Stat. 81, 92, the
Attorney General of the United States was "directed to commence in the name and on behalf of the United States, and
prosecute to a final determination, a proper suit in equity in
the Supreme Court of the United States against the State of
Texas, setting forth the title and claim of the United States

UNITED - STATES v. TEXAS.
Argument for the State of Texas.

to the tract of land lying between the North and South Forks
of the IRed River where .the Indian Territory and the State of
Texas adjoin, east. of the one hundredth degree of longitude,
and claimed by the State of Texas as within its boundary and
a part of its land, and designated on its map as Greer County."
This suit was commenced in compliance with that direction.
A demurrer to the bill was heard and overruled at October
Term 1891, (143 U. S. 621,) and the case was at this term heard
upon its merits.
.IMr.Attor/ey General,Mr. Solicitor Generaland .M'.Edgar
Allan for the United States.
Mr. George Clark, Mr. -M.-M. Crane and Mr. A. H. Garland for the State of Texas. Mr. (harles A. Culberson, MT.
George R. Freeman and Mr. H. J. May were on the briefs
for. the State.
I. The map of Melish, improved to the first of January,
1818, made part of the tieaty, conclusively establishes the
claim of Texas to the territory in controversy, and known as
Greer County.
The boundary line from the mouth of the Sabine River to
the point where the line strikes the Rio Roxo of Natchitoches
or Red River is not disputed, and that on the north and west
of the State was settled by the act of September 9, 1850.
This act of 1850 has no reference to the boundary line from
the point where it intersects Red River, thence up that river
to the 100th meridian and northward, or to the disputed territory. This is plain from the act itself, and it is expressly alleged in the bill. The case therefore turns upon that portion
of the treaty providing, "then following the course of the
Rio Roxo westward to the degree of longitude 100 west from
London and 23 from Washington; then crossing the said Red
River and running thence by a line due north to the river
Arkansas," and "the whole being as laid down in Melish's
map of the United States, published at Philadelphia, improved to the first of January, 1818."

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for the State of Texas.

Accepting the admission and argument of complainants
counsel, that unless the act of 1850 operates to settle the
eastern boundary line of the State against her claim, the territory rightfully belongs to Texas, other facts make it indisputable that the act can be given no such effect. In the first
place, when this act was passed, the actual intersection of the
100th meridian with Red River had not been determined, and
the meridian referred to in the act necessarily and logically
was that shown on the map of Melish made part of the treaty.
The title of the act shows that it is confined to the northern
and western boundaries. By the first section of the act Texas
agreed that "her boundary on the north" should commence at
the point of intersection of the 100th meridian with the parallel
360 301, and by the second section ceded to the United States.
"all her claim to territory exterior" to this line, thus clearly
and undoubtedly ceding only territory north of this line.
This is also shown by the controversy- which led to the passage of this act; for it is well known that it had no reference
to the eastern boundary line of the State. At that time the
United States had not asserted any claim to Greer County,
and did not do so till years afterwards. The eastern boundary line of the State is regarded by the United States as that
laid downby Melish on his map of 1818; the adt of 1850 has
been so construed by Congress. By the act of the legislature of Texas of May 2, 1882, the United States were invited
to appoint commissioners to mark the line thus defined, and
the Congress accepted said invitation by the act of January
31, 1885, reciting the terms of the treaty of 1819, and directing the commissioners to "mark the point where the 100th
meridian of longitude- crosses Red River in accordance with
the terms of the treaty aforesaid." In view of these solemn

declarations by Congress, together with the pleadings and
other considerations mentioned, it is manifest that the 100th
meridian of longitude named in the act of 1850 is that laid
down by Melish.
But if the intersection of the 100th meridian of longitudewith the parallel 36° 30' north latitude, constituting the beginning of the north boundary line of Texas under the act of 1850,.

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Argument for the State of Texas.

shall be held to mean the actual, and not the :Melish intersection, it does not follow that the actual, and not the iMelish
100th meridian constitutes the eastern boundary line of the
State. Before this court can reach the conclusion contended
for by complainants, it must set at naught the pleadings in
the cause, the repeated declarations of the sovereign power of
the United States, and the obvious meining of the act of purchase. Nor is the situation altered by the Tact that this construction will leave for future determination the ownership of
a portion of the northeastern territory. That has occurred
before. Cook v. United States, 138 U. S. 157. It should not
be used as a pretext to disturb the integrity of our territory.
The small consideration of ten millions of dollars, paid under
the act of 1850, in itself refutes such a contention; and the
United States, now grown imperial in every national aspect,
should limit rather than enlarge the terms of contracts with
members of the Union.
Counsel for the United States does not appear to contest
the proposition that the map of Melish constitutes part of the
treaty, and that its representation of degrees of latitude and
longitude is controlling unless affected by the act of 1850.
The rule is thoroughly settled. McBver v. Walker, 9 Cranch,
173; -McIverv. Walker, 4 Wheat. 444; .Yoonan v. Lee, 2 Black,
499; Davis v. RIainesford, 1-7 Mass. 207; Jenkins v. Trager,
40 Fed. Rep. 726; Eoenighan? v. MA
iles, 67 Texas, 113; Cragin
v. Powell, 128 U. S. 691; Jefferii v. East Omaha Land Co.,
134 U. S. 178.
If there were otherwise doubt of the matter, the fact that
the treaty expressly provides for determining the actualsource
of the Arkansas River, regardless of the map, establishes beyond question that the purpose was .to leave all else to the
delineation of the map. While this rule is practically admitted, .it seems to be insisted by counsel that the Melish
delineation of upper Red River is inaccurate, that the North
and South Forks of that.river, as now known, are not represented upon that map, and that the United States had no
other knowledge of the country other than .that afforded by
the Melish map.- Recalling the admission heretofore referred

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for the State of Texas.

to, that according to that map Greer County is in Texas, it is
not material, if true, that the forks are not represented, or
that the map is not accurate, or that the United States were
without other information, and a decree should be entered for
the defendant regardless of these matters. For reasons to be
stated, it is certain, however, that both of the forks of the
river are laid down on the ielish map of 1818, that their
existence was fully known to the United States and Spain at
the date of the treaty, and that the map is surprisingly accurate.
Before discussing these propositions, however, we call attention to the strong testimony to the effect that the South Fork,
or Prairie Dog Town River, is not laid down on the Melish
map, that the treaty was entered into without reference to it,
and consequently the North Fork is the river of the treaty.
Especially we invite attention to the testimony in the record
of Mr. Charles W. Pressler, at present and for 38 years engaged as chief and assistant draughtsman in the General
Land Office of Texas, and the most experienced and competent map maker in the State.
The testimony demonstrates that the North and South Forks
of Red River are laid'down on the Melish map of i818 and made
part of the treaty, the confluence being just west of the 101st
meridian of longitude, between the 33d and 34th parallels of
latitude. By the scale of this map the confluence is about
70 miles west of the intersection of the 100th meridian with
Red River, and therefore the territory in controversy belongs
to Texas. The propositions which we now purpose establishing are that the parties to the treaty were well informed of
the geographical features of the country in the vicinity of the
forks of Red River; in reference to these features they agreed
upon the 100th meridian of west longitude, as laid down on
the map. of Melish, as the boundary line from Red River to
the Arkansas, whether astronomically correct or not; that
said boundary line was thus fixed by the map and with reference to the great natural landmarks shown on the face of the
map; that its position so fixed is far east of the forks of Red
River and of Greer County, and of the line now claimed by

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Argument for the State of Texas.

complainants to be the true 100th meridian; and that the
map of Melish delineates the North and South Forks of Red
River and is substantially accurate. The position assumed by
complainants, that the section of country in dispute was unknown to them and to the Spaniards, is 'thoroughly disproved
by the record. It will be shown that it was known to the
Spanish go-Arnment and the Ulited States in this order. The
negotiations between the parties leading up to the treaty show
that the territory which had been under discussion at the time
of the treaty, was bounded on the south by a line along Red
River, from the vicinity of Natchitoches to its head, and
thence west to the Pacific Ocean, and on the north- by a line
from the mouth of the Missouri River westward to the Pacific
Ocean, along the courses of the Missouri and Columbia rivers;
but that towards the close of the discussion, it was narrowed
principally to the region between the Red River, west of
Natchitoches and the Arkansas.
The question of boundary had existed from the acquisition
of Louisiana by the United States in 1803, and both parties to
the treaty had, for many years, been informing themselves of
this extensive region and its geographical outline.
The record shows that it-was known to the Spaniards as
early as 1541, when Coronado made a military expedition
from the mouth of the Puerco or Pecos River, reaching the
region of the Arkansas, Kansas and Platte Rivers, occupied
by the Quivera Indians, subsequently, in 1778, called the
Pawnees or Pananas by the Spaniards.
It was visited and occupied by them continually from that
time until the date of the- treaty, from Santa F6 as a base of
operations, as shown by the record.
.. [Counsel then referred in detail to Spanish expeditions in
1601, 1611, 1629, 1632, 1650, 1654, 1698; and to French expeditions in 1698, 1719, 1722, 1724, 1727, 1729 and 1759.]
But there still remains to be mentioned perhaps the most
conclusive evidence of the familiar knowledge the Spanish
government had of the region under discussion.
On the face of the country, from the northeasteri, borders
of Texas along the Red River to the head of the North Fork

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for the State of Texas.

of Red River, there are still to be seen traces of Spanish civilization and enterprise, which show the occupancy of all that
river, including the North Fork to its source, by the Spaniards,
from ancient times to dates within the memory of men now
living, while no similar or other signs of such occupancy by
them have been discovered on the South Fork of that river.
About the year 1791 the Spanish government laid out
two roads eastward from Santa F6; one to a point in the
Province of Louisiana known as the Establishment of San
Louis of the Illinois, which was an eastern tributary of the
Arkansas River, debouching into it nearly opposite the mouth

of the Canadian, a western tributary of the same river; and
the other to Natchitoches on Red River, in the Province of
Louisiana.
These roads were by way of the North Fork of Red
River, and the Kiowa and Panis villages on that stream;
the former about 75 miles and the latter about 35 miles above
its junction with the Prairie Dog Town River, or South Fork of
Red River, and passing down the North Fork, in places for
some miles having two tracks, by reason of cut-offs, reached
the junction of the North and South Forks of Red River on
the east side of the North Fork, and there spparated, one
going toward the Illinois River, which lies a short distance
west of Fort Smith, Arkansas, and the other crossing the river
below said junction to the south side, and passing down that
side of the river towards Natchitoches, dividing into several
tracks in places, by reason of cut-offs; and the stream down
which these roads passed was the stream known as the Rio
Roxo de Natchitoches, the boundary line of the treaty of 1819,
south and west of which is the territory of Greer County.
That the two roads were laid out from Santa F4, the capital
of the province of New Mexico, to the points mentioned above,
is shown by the public archives of the territory of New Mexico.
The points to which they were laid out, the Illinois River and
Natchitoches, are both delineated on Pike's map accompanying his published account of his expedition up the Arkansas
River, put in evidence by complainants. That of the Illinois,
as shown by several modern maps in the record, appears to be

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Argument for the State of Texas.

a little over one half of a degree west of Fort Smith, Arkansas; while'that of Natchitoches appears to be on the Red
River, in the State of Louisiana. M6si6res describes these two
localities as being about the same distance from the Taovayase
villages as San Antonio and Santa F6.
The following facts in the record show that these roads
were laid out and became well travelled roads, to and from
the North Fork of Red River.
There remains an old, well worn and beaten road, long
since fallen into disuse, but still visible and well marked on the
face of the ground, from the northeast corner of Texas up the
south side of Red River, by way of an old Spanish fort in
Montague County on Red River, to a neighborhood above the
mouth of the Wichita River, and thence across the Red River
northward to the forks of the river, on the east side of the
North Fork of Red River; thence up the same to the site of
the old Panis villages, and to the site above occupied by the
Kiowa Indians in 1833, about 75 miles above the forks of Red
River; and thence by way of the head of the False Wichita
River toward Santa F6, in places dividing into two roads where
there are bends in the river, which road, as far back as the
memory of very old men reaches, has been known and reputed, in the neighborhood through which it passes, as the old
Santa F6 road from Natchitoches; and as late as 1819 was frequented by Mexican traders coming from Santa F6, and as
late as 1838 or 1839 was used by a party of Chihuahua traders
coming from Santa F6; while as late as 1833 there existed an
old, well worn, but disused, Wagon road from the forks of Red
River eastward to the region of the Illinois River, near Fort
Smith, Arkansas, which was travelled by a large party of
men from Fort Smith to the forks of Red River in 1833,
where it intersected the other old road from Natchitoches to
Sonta F6.
The ruins of a number of old Spanish villages and fortifications still exist along the route of the old Natchitoches and
Santa F6 road, on the Kofth Fork of Red River, and on this
river below its junction with the Prairie Dog Town River,
which conclusively demonstrates our proposition of familiar

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for the State of Texas.

knowledge with the North Fork, and shows the reason for the
old road, and why the North Fork was deemed and named
the Red River of Natchitoches, while the absence of any such
evidence of occupancy and familiar knowledge of the Prairie
Dog Town River country equally demonstrates the improbability that it was ever deemed the Rio Roxo of Natchitoches
prior to the treaty of 1819.
In 1762, by the treaty of Fontainebleau, the territory of
Louisiana was transferred by France to Spain. That this
region was, at the time of that treaty, well known to the
Spaniards counsel claimed was shown by an abundance of evidence in the record, which they referred to in detail.
The same region was well known to the government of the
United States, at the date of the treaty, especially along its
northern border, and along the Arkansas River, and at the
point of intersection of that river by the 100th meridian, as
laid down on Melish's map.
In 1803, the United States having arranged for the acquisition of Louisiana, both Upper and Lower, sent out Messrs.
Lewis and Clark to explore the country between the mouth
of the Missouri and the Pacific Ocean. These men performed
this task with such wonderful fidelity, that their fame has to
this day reached the ear of every schoolboy in the land; and
their reports show that at that time the whole region between
the Arkansas and Missouri rivers was occupied by American,
English, and French traders.
They were particularly instructed by President Jefferson in
these words, to wit: "Although your route will be along the
Missouri, yet you will endeavor to inform yourselves by inquiry of the character and extent of the country watered by
its branches, and especially on its south side. The North
River, or Rio Bravo, which runs into the Gulf of Mexico, and
the North River, or Colorado, which runs into the Gulf of
California, are understood to be the principal streams heading
opposite the headwaters of the Missouri, and running southwardly. Whether the dividing grounds between the Missouri
and them are mountainous or flat lands, what are their distances from the Missouri, the character of the intermediate

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Argument for the State of Texas.

country, and the people inhabiting it, are worthy of particular
attention."
They met and had dealings and intercourse with divers
traders from St. Louis, who traded up the Osage, 'Platte, and
Kansas Rivers, and reported minutely the character of the
country and its population, even extending to the Pawnees
on Red River.
The statistical table prepared by them, to which the attention of the United States Congress was called by' President
Jefferson in his special message, in 1808, shows a minute knowledge of the localities occupied by the Indians from the mouth
of the Canadian to the head of the Arkansas, Platte, and
Kansas Rivers, as well as minute statistics of their numbers,
character, habits, associations, commerce, the people with whom
the; traded or were at war, and their condition generally.
Counsel also called attention to Zebulon Pike's expedition in
1806; to Sibley's account in the same year, and to the two
maps published with the account of Pike's expedition in 1810,
concerning which they said: On their face it conspicuously
appears that the United States, by Officers Wilkerson and
Pike, had made careful and precise reconnoissance of all the
region along the Arkansas River, from its mouth to its source,
and especially about the apex of the great bend of the Arkansas, at which Wilkerson and Pike had camped and separated,
one to explore the river to its mouth, and the other to explore
it to its source; and at which the boundary line of the treaty,
the 100th meridian of ]vMelish's map, intersected the river.
It is clear, therefore, that the United States government,
before the date of the treaty, had at command abundant means
of knowledge of the whole country from the junction of the
Verdigris, Canadian and Illinois Rivers with the Arkansas,
described by Lieutenant Wilkerson, to the head of the latter,
and from the mouth of Red River to the home of the Panis
on the North Fork of the Red River. which was utilized till
the date of the treaty.
In 1818 John Melish published in the city of Philadelphia
the map which was made the map of the treaty of 1819. Looking at it, and along the 100th meridian of west longitude,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for the State of Texas.

between the Red River and the Arkansas River, we are struck
with the aptness of the language of the treaty that it was intended to designate with precision the limits of the respective
bordering territories; for on both sides of that line we see
delineated great natural landmarks which, if they exist on the
ground, must necessarily fix and determine its locality with
remarkable precision.
The parties to the treaty were both definitely notified by
this map that the Red River forked west of that line, at a
point nearly due south, but a little east of south, and about
207 miles by the scale of the map from the apex of the Great
South Bend of the Arkansas River, and south of a mountainous region that extended along the North Fork on its north
-side toward the northwest, and then northward to the Arkansas River; and that to the northeast of that. South Bend of
the Arkansas River, and in close proximity to the 100th meridian limit, lay the apex of a Great North Bend of the same
river; while close by, but on the opposite side of that meridian,
was the notable point where Pike had commenced his explorations of that river, under the auspices of the United States
government, in 1806, and that from the apex of that North
Bend the river took its course in a long stretch to the southeast, till it reached the neighborhood of several contiguous
and peculiarly shaped bends, about the mouth of Jefferson
River, in a region northeast from the forks of Red River, and
southeast from the South Bend of the Arkansas. And especially were they notified by this map that both of the forks or
branches of Red River, and all of their headwaters, lay west
of that line agreed upon as a boundary from the Red River to
the Arkansas.
It is obvious from the record, that these several great natural
features and outlines exist on the ground in the corresponding
relative position to each other and to Melish's 100th meridian
delineated on this map, and that the information by which
these striking correlations were delineated must have been remarkably accurate for that day and time; and that the allegation of plaintiff, that in fact Melish had no knowledge of
the existence of said forks of Red River, is untrue and reckless.

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Argument for the State of Texas.

The forks of Red River are found in the relative position

delineated.
The record shows that those forks have been found by careful astronomical observation to be about 227 miles south and
36 miles east of the apex of the Great South Bend of the Arkansas. It shows that the mountainous country north of the
forks and north of the North Fork, and extending northward towards the Arkansas River, exists on the ground.
It shows that the apex of a Great North Bend of that river,
to the northeast of the apex of the South Bend, exists on the
ground, in close proximity to the point where Pike comm~enccd
his exploration of the river in 1806. It shows that the long
stretch of the Arkansas River southeast from the apex of the
Great North Bend to the several contiguous and peculiar bends
of the river about, the mouth of the Salt Fork of modern maps,
which is the Jefferson's River of Melish's map,, exist on the
ground. It shows that these peculiar bends of the river lie
southeast from the apex of its Great South Bend, and northeast of the forks of Red River. It shows that these several
great landmarks, as they exist on the ground, lie approximately in the same relative position to the line delineated by
Melish for the 100th meridian of west longitude, as they are
represented to be on the map, and especially that the forks of
Red River are west of that line; and that all of the headwaters of both the North and South Forks, and also the
mountains along the North Fork, lie west of that line, as they
exist on the ground. And the conclusion. is inevitable that
the boundary line of the treaty, from Red River to the Arkansas along the meridian of the 100th degree west longitude, as
laid down on Melish's map, lies east of the forks of Red River,
and intersects the Arkansas River in the immediate vicinity
and west of the apex of the Great North Bend of that stream,
and also intersects the Red -River at a point far below and east
of the forks of that river, and lies far to the eastward of Greer
County, and that. this fact must have been fully understood
and acted upon by both parties to the treaty since they made
the 100th meridian, as laid down 6n this map, the boundary.
The parties to the treaty were Well advised of the difficulty

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for the State of Texas.

and uncertainty of deterinining with precision and accuracy
the position of meridian lines at that day and time. They
were fully informed that Pike, with the use of the astronoinical instruments and appliances with which he was provided,
had laid down the 100th meridian of west longitude in reference to the Great North Bend of the Arkansas, about two
degrees farther east than .Afelish hacl done, with the assistance
of the recent surveys of Bringier.
The telegraph was then unknown, and the methods then in
use of ascertaining the differences in time between Greenwich
or Washington and the locality of the observer had proved
too crude to be relied upon to fix with precision a boundary
line; of which fact the parties to the treaty had a demonstration in the two maps just mentioned.
Hence the necessity of agreeing upon a diagram laying
down the line of boundary in reference to great and stable
natural landmarks upon a map, which should point out the
unchanging and unchangeable localities had in view, to fix
the position of the line.
Had the treaty been in 1806, and the absolute 100th merid-.
ian been made the boundary, and Pike been called on to
mark it on the ground, he would have located it nearly two
degrees east of the apex of the Great North Bend of the
Arkansas River. (See his map.) But if the parties had sur.veyed the ground and made observations twelve years later
with Bringier, whose data were adopted by Nelisb, the line
would have appeared to be two degrees farther west, where
Melish laid it down; and had the survey been postpdned till
forty years more had elapsed, Jones and Brown would have
made the line appear more than fifty miles still farther to the
westward, and west of the apex of the Great South Bend of
the Arkansas 'River, and at least three degrees farther west
than its determination by Pike in the year 1806.
To suppose the treaty-makers intended a line whose position
might be shifted with every improvement in methods and instruments used in making astronomical observations,- when
expressly declaring that it should be as laid down on the map
of the treaty, in the midst of great and unmistakable natural

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Argument for the State of Texas.

land marks, is too unreasonable for discussion. It is worthy
of remark, that after the treaty of boundary, Melish furnished
his map to the historian Bonnycastle, and the latter published
it in his New Spain as Melish's map in 1819, and that on its
face the line of demarcation between the territories of Spain
and the United States, indicated by a dotted line, is laid down
as intersecting the Arkansas River at the Great Bend of that
river (see Bonnycastle's New Spain); and that George Catlin's
map of Indian Localities in 1833 still laid down the same
boundary as intersecting, that river at the same bend, where
Melish laid down the 100th meridian, and corresponds to the
line established as the boundary by Exhibit B. of C. Corner
and his testimony.
II. If the treaty and map of Melish be disregarded, considered scientifically and historically, the 'North Fork is the
main Red River, and consequently the territory is rightfully
part of Texas.
Scientifically the North Fork is the main river, because it
is the permanent and longest stream, discharges annually the
greater volume of water, and imposes its course upon the
river at and below the confluence; and historically it is
the main river, because it was first discovered and was named
and known as Red River, w.hile the South Fork was named
Prairie Dog Town River.
Without regard to the comparative length and breadth of
their beds, however, the North Fork is shown to be the principal river in reference to the most important attributes of a
river, to wit, the quantity of water which it furnishes, and its
permanency as a flowing stream, and for that reason it was
and is the stream properly considered the Red River of
Natchitoches; and if the 100th meridian of'-west longitude,
as laid down on Melish's map, and designated in the treaty of
boundary as the boundary line, lies as far west as the forks of
Red River, then the North Fork should be deemed the boundary line, and the territory to the south of it, including Greer
County, should be held to be Texas territory.
After examining in detail a mass of testimony, which, they
contended, established these propositions, counsel said,: If it

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for the State of Texas.

be conceded, against the overwhelming testimony in the case,
that the -South Fork discharges the greater volume of water,
the iNorth Fork is yet the river of the treaty and the main
Rio Roxo of Natchitoches, because of its first discovery and
historical designation as such, upon which there is no conflict
in the testimony. It is well known that the Missouri is the
real continuation of the Mississippi River, but it is no more
competent to reverse history there, upon principles of justice
and national honor, than to disrupt conditions which have
existed on Red River for three quarters of a century.
III. Since its independence, Texas has likewise asserted its
ownership of said territory, and has persisted in such assertion down to the present day by acts of government, of legislation and of occupancy. iNo governmental act of the State
can be tortured or perverted into acquiescence on its part in
the claim of the United States. To the contrary the government of the United States has recognized the right of Texas
to the territory in dispute by solemn acts of government, and
is now estopped to claim the same or any part thereof.
One of the earliest acts of the Republic of Texas was the
assertion of its boundary rights under the treaty of 181.9 by
virtue of an act of Congress of the Republic of Texas approved
December 19, 1836, the first section of which read as follows:
Section 1. "That the civil and political jurisdiction of this
Republic be and is hereby declared to extend to the following
boundaries, to wit: Beginning at the mouth of the Sabine
River and running west along the gulf of Mexico three leagues
from land to the mouth of the Rio Grande; thence up the
principal stream of said river to its sources; thence due north
to the 42d degree of north latitude; thence along the boundary line as defined in the treaty between the United States
and Spain, to the beginning." 1 Paschal's Dig. of Laws, Art.
438.
After its admission as a State, by joint resolution adopted
April 29, 1846, Texas asserted its exclusive right to its soil
and boundaries in the following words:
Section 1. "That the exclusive right to the jurisdiction
over the soil included in the limits of the late Republic of

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Argument for the State of Texas.

Texas was acquired by the valor of the people thereof, and
was by them vested in the government of the said Republic;
that stich exclusive right is now vested in and belongs to the
State, excepting such jurisdiction as is vested in the United
States by the Constitution of the United States and by the
general resolution of annexation subject to such regulations
and control as the government thereof may deem expedient
to adopt; that we recognize no title iithe Indian tribes
resident within the limits of the State to any portion of the
soil thereof, and that we recognize no right in the government
of the United gtates to make any treaty of limits with the
said Indian tribes without the .consent of the government of
this State." 1 Paschal's Dig. of Laws, Art. 441.
It continued to assert its jurisdiction over the tgrritory
in dispute by legislation beginning in 1839, and extending
through all the intervening years.
In addition to this, Texas has donated to Greer County,
outside of the limits of Greer County, 17,712 acres (four
leagues) for county school purposes. It has erected sixty
public school buildings in the county. In 1892 there were
2250 enrolled scholars in the public schools. In 1892, by the
last school apportionment, Texas was distributing annually
$11,844 of taxes collected from the people of Texas, among
the inhabitants of Greer County for the purpose of public
.education on the basis of $5.264 per pupil. It had established
sixty-six district schools besides school communities, and sometimes they organized two or more institutions in a community for school purposes. Every school district had a school
except two, in which they had exhausted their school money
in erecting school buildings.
. These facts briefly cited from the record, (and there is a
vast accumulation of other evidence therein; but to which
the attention of the court is directed,) manifest most clearly
that Texas has been in the actual possession of the particular
territory claimed by the United States in this suit, for a period
of more than fifty years, claiming expressly under the treaty
of 1819, as Mexico, its predecessor, had claimed before, and
as. had been claimed by Spain prior to the independence of
VOL. cLXHi-2

OCTOBER TERX, 1895.
Argument for the State of Texas.

Mexico, from the date of the treaty until the termination of
her dominion.
The record further abundantly attests, some of the evidence
-as to which has been cited already by us, that the United States
by solemn acts of Congress had recognized this possession of
Texas and had ripened it into a confirmed right, long anterior
to the commencement of these proceedings.
In Phillips v. Payne, 92 U. S. 130, where an effort was
made to avoid payment of taxes because of the alleged unlawful retrocession of Alexandria to Virginia, the court held that
the party was estopped from questioning that.
Greer County is fixed, and has been since its organization
in 1860, in a senatorial district and in a legislative district, one
of the legislative districts of Texas, and has been constantly
represented. It has been, and is, in a judicial district of the
United States by act of Congress. It has been, and is, in a
Congressional district. All that time it has had its position
in a state judicial district. Not till about seven years ago did
the Post Office Department cease to fix post offices in Greer
county, Texas, which it had done regularly before then. At
that time it, for some reason, changed the description, but it
was too late for any purpose touching the rights of Texas to
this property.
All this and much more that could be added, if need be,
show that Greer County, Texas, has been recognized by people, private and public officials, both state and national, and
by both state and national authorities, legislative, executive
and judfcial. Not more firmly fixed in their respective statehoods is Cook County in Illinois, or Bourbon County in Kentucky, or Bucks County in Pennsylvania.
Nations are prescribed and estopped as individuals, so are
we told in Phillips v. Payne, sup. In this discussion we
stand alone upon acts open and undisguised, and say nothing upon propositions to settle or to compromise, after it
was thought by some that the line should be away below
where it is, as all such efforts are for peace and quiet, and
the law commends them and does not draw any admission
from them.

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Argument for the State of Texas.

The facts disclose two real acts of estoppel against the
United States, substantial in their character.
(1.) The reimbursement of Texas for the disarmament of
Snively's command was recommended by the President to
Congress, and Congress in pursuance of such recommendation,
promptly provided 6ompensation. If Snively's command was
not upon United States territory at the time of its disarmament by Captain Cooke, the Texans were there wrongfully
and ought to have been disarmed, and their arms confiscated.
There could be no claim for indemnity on the part of Texas
for a wrongful act such as this. If it invaded the territory of
a neighboring Republic in 1843 its troops should have been
captured and their arms and supplies should have .been confiscated; because for all intents and purposes they were acting
as public enemies and by the law of nations were entitled to
no grace.. Yet, as is admitted, in 1847, the government of
the United States made public reparation for the wrong done,
practically confessing the wrong, and in effect declaring by
the legislation, that the Texas troops -were rightfully upon
Texas territory at the time they were captured and their arms
seized by Captain Cooke. This territory comprises the territory of Greer County, now in dispute, and it is too late now
for the government to contend for a different finding.
(2.) A governmental act of more potent significance is in
the legislation by Congress of 1879 creating the Northern
Judicial District of Texas. The force and effect of this legislation is attempted to be parried by-complainant in this cause
by the insertion of long extracts from the reports of House
Committees and statements by Chairmen of House Committees that this legislation was inadvertent and had and done
in ignorance by the members of the Congress and Senators as
to the true status of the territory embraced, within such legislation. The counsel for the government seems to misapprehend or to defiantly disregard the force and potency of his
own suggestion. Notwithstanding these reports of committees and ex cathedra utterances of chairmen of committees,
this statute of Congress so disposing of Greer County, Texas,
as a part of the territory of Texas, has been upon the statute

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

book for fifteen years unrepealed, unqualified, and unaffected.
Can this court disregard such legislation? Can this court,
with all its powers, afford to say, and especially upon the
faint intimations of the record, that Congress did wrong,
either from ignorance or any other motive? iN:ot so. The
record is made up, and this court and every State in the
Union and every citizen of every State, and the United
States itself, must abide by the record as made. Greer
County is a part of Texas, so conceded by the government
of the United States, which stands in law estopped by such
governmental act.
IV. Should the court determine all questions submitted
against the State of Texas, including that of estoppel, there
certainly can be no doubt of the right of defendant to insist
that the intersection of the 100th. meridian with the river be
accurately fixed. This has been done by Professor H. S.
Pritchett against whose conclusion not a syllable of testimony
has been adduced, and the line should be established as found
by him, 3797.3 feet east of the initial monument placed by
Messrs. Jones and Brown in 1858.
MR. JUSTICE HAMLAw delivered the opinion of the court.
By the act of Congress of May 2, 1890, c. 182, establishing
a temporary government for the Territory of Oklahoma, and
enlarging the jurisdiction of the United States court in the
Indian Territory, it was declared that that act should not
apply to "Greer County" until the title to the same had been
adjudicated and determined to be in the United States. And
that there might be a speedy judicial determination of that
question the Attorney General of- the United States was
directed to institute in this court A suit in equity against
the State of Texas, setting forth the title and claim of the
United States "to the tract of land lying between the North
and South Forks of the Red River where the Indian Territory and the State of Texas adjoin, east of the one hundredth
degree of longitude, and claimed by the State of Texas as
within its boundary and a part of its land, and designated on

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

its map as Greer County;" the court, on the trial of the case,
in its discretion, and so far as the ends of justice would warrant, to consider any evidence taken and received by the Joint
Boundary Commission under the act of Cbngress, approved
January 31, 1885. 26 Stat. 81, 92, § 25.
In order that the precise locality of this land may be indicated, and for convenience, we insert on page 22 an extract
from a map of Texas and of the Indian Territory, published
in 1892. The territory in dispute, is jmarked on that map
with the words "1Unassigned Land." It contains about
1,511,576.17 acres, lies east of the 100th meridian of longitude and west and south of the river marked on that
map as the North Fork of Red River and with the words
"Boundary claimed by the State of Texas." It is north of
the line marked on that map with the words "Boundary
claimed by U. S." The river on the south side is now commonly known as Prairie Dog Town Fork of Red River, (the
Indian name of which is Kecheahquehouo,) which has its
source in the western part of Texas, and is the same river as
the South Fork of Red River mentioned in the act of 1890.
The present suit was instituted pursuant to that act. - The
State appeared, and demurred to the bill upon the following
grounds:, 1. The question of boundary raised by the suit was
political in its character, and not susceptible of judicial determination by this court in the exercise of any jurisdiction
conferred by the Constitution and laws of the United States.
2- Under the Constitution it was not competent for the United
States to sue, in its own courts, one of the States composing
the Union. 3. This court, sitting as a court of equity, could
not hear and determine the present controversy- the right
asserted by the United States being in its nature legal and not
equitable.
Upon full consideration these several grounds of demurrer
were overruled. United States v. Texas, 143 U. S. 621. The
reasons given for that conclusion need not be here repeated.
The State answered the bill, controverting the claim of the
United States and.asserting that the lands within the boundary mentioned in the above act constitute a part of its terri-

22

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.
No. 1. Map of 1892.

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

tory. The United States filed a replication, and proofs
having been taken, the case is now before the court upon
its merits.
Both parties assert title under certain articles of the treaty
between the United States and Spain, made February 22,
1819, and ratified February 19, 1821. 8 Stat. 252, 254, 256.
Before examining those articles', it will .be usefil to refer
to the diplomatic correspondence that preceded the making
of the treaty. That correspondence. commenced during the
administration of President Madison, and was 'concluded
under that of President Monroe. - It appears that the nego-.
tiations upon the subject of the boundaries between the
respective possessions of the two countries was more than
once suspended because certain demands on the part of Spain
were regarded by the United States aa wholly inadmissible.
4 American State Papers, Foreign Relations,. pp. 425, 430, 4389,
439, 452, 464, 465, 466, 478. Finally, on the 24th day of
October, 1818, the Spanish minister, "to avoid all cause of dispute in future," proposed to Mr. Adams, Secretary of State,
that the limits of the possessions of the two governments west
of the Mississippi should be designated, by a line beginning
"on the Gulf of Mexico, between the rivers Mermento and
Calcasia, following the Arroyo Hondo, between the Adaes
and Natchitoches, crossing the Rio or Red River at the thirtysecond degree of latitude, and ninety-third of longitude from
London, according to Melish's. map, and thence running
directly north, crossing the Arkansas, the White and the
Osage Rivers, till it strikes the Missouri, and. then following
the middle of that river to its source, so that the territory on
the right bank of the said river will belong to Spain, and that
on the left bank to the United States. The navigation, as
well of the Missouri as of the Mississippi and Mermento, shall
remain free to the subjects of both parties." He also proposed that,-in order "to fix this line with more precision, and
to place the landmarks which shall designate exactly the
limits of both nations," each, of the -contracting parties should
appoint a commissioner and surveyor, who should run and.
mark the line, and make out plans and keep journals of

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

their proceedings, the result agreed upon by them to be considered part of the treaty, and have the same effect as if inserted in it. Annals of Congress, 15th Cong. 2d Sess. 1819,
1890, 1900.
To this proposition Mr. Adams, under date of October 31,
1818, replied: "Instead of it, I am authorized to propose to
you the following, and. to assure you that it is to be considered
as the final offer on the part of the United States: Beginning
at the mouth of the river Sabine, on the Gulf of Mexico, following the course of said river to the thirty-second degree of
latitude; the eastern bank and all the islands in the said
river to belong to the United States, and the western bank
to Spain; thence, due north, to the northernmost part of
the thirty-third degree of north latitude, and until it strikes the
Rio Roxo, or Red River; thence, following the course of the
said river, to its source, touching the chain of the Snow .Mountains in latitude 370 25' north, longitude 1060 15' west, or
thereabouts, as marked on Melish's map; thence to the summit of the said mountains, and following the chain of the
same to the forty-first parallel of latitude; thence, following
the said parallel of latitude, 410, to the South Sea. The northern bank of the said Red River, and all the islands therein, to
belong to the United States, and the southern bank of the
same to Spain." ' It is believed," Mr. Adams said, "that this
line will render the appointment of commissioners for fixing
it more precisely unnecessary, unless it be for the purpose of
ascertaining the spot where the river Sabine falls upon latitude 320 north, and the line thence due north to the Red
River, and the point of latitude 410 north on the ridge of tie
Snow Mountains." Annals of Congress, 15th Cong. 2d Sess.
1903, 1904.
This proposition was rejected by the Spanish minister, and
in his letter of November 16, 1818, he said: "I will undertake to admit the river Sabine instead of the Mermento as the
boundary between the two powers, from the Gulf of Mexico,
on condition that the same line proposed by you shall run due
north from the point where it crosses the river Roxo (Re4
River) until it strikes the Mississippi, and extend thence along

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

the middle of the latter to its source, leaving to. Spain the territory lying to the right, and to the United States the territory
lying to the left of the same." To this"Mr. Adams replied
under date of November 30, 1818: "As you have now declared that you are not authorized to agree, either to the course
of the Red River (Rio Roxo) for the boundary, or to the fortyfirst parallel of latitude, from the Snow Mountains to the
Pacific Ocean, the President deems it useless to pursue any further the attempt at an adjustment of this object by the present
negotiation. I am therefore directed to state to ydu that the
offer of a line for the western boundary, made to you in my
last letter, is no longer obligatory upon this government. Reserving, then, all the rights of the United States to the ancient
western boundary of the colony of Louisiana by the course of
the Rio Bravo del Norte, I am," etc. Annals of Congress, 15th
Cong. 2d Sess. 1908, 1942.
The negotiations were resumed in the succeeding year and
the Spanish minister wrote to Mr. Adams, under date of February 1, 1819: "Having thus declared to you my readiness
to meet the views of the United States in the essential point
of their demand, I have to state to you that His Majesty is
unable to agree to the admission of the Red River to its source,
as proposed by you. This river rises within a few leagues of
Sante Fj, the capital of New Mexico, and as I flatter myself
the United States have no hostile intentions towards Spain, at
the moment we are using all our efforts to strengthen the existing friendship between the two nations, it must be indifferent
to them to accept the Arkansas instead of the Red River as
the boundary. This opinion is strengthened by the well known
fact, that the intermediate space between these two rivers is
so much impregnated with nitre as scarcely to be susceptible
of improvement. In consideration of these obvious reasons, I
propose to you, that, drawing the boundary line from the Gulf
of Mexico by the river Sabine, as laid down by you, it shall
follow the course of that river to its source; thence, by the
ninety-fourth degree of longitude, to the Red River of Natchitoches, and along the same to the ninety-fifth degree, and
crossing it at that point, to run by a line due north to the Ar-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

kansas, and along it to its source; thence, by a line due west
till it strikes the source of the river San Clemente, or Multnomah, in latitude 410, and along that river to the Pacific Ocean;
the whole agreeably to Melish's map." Annals 6f Congress,
15th Cong. 2d Sess. 2111, 2112.
The last proposition made by Mr. Adams to the Spanish
minister contained the following : "Art. 3. The boundary line
between the two countries, west of the Mississippi, shall begin
on the Gulf of Mexico, at the mouth of the river Sabine in the
sea; continuing north, along the western bank of that river,
to the thirty-second degree of latitude; thence by a line due
north to the degree of latitude where it strikes the Rio Roxo
of Natchitoches, or Red River; thence folloWing the course of,
the Rio Roxo westward, to the degree of longitude one hundred and two degrees west from London and twenty-five degrees from Washington; then, crossing the said Red River,
and running thence, by a line due north, to the river Arkansas;
thence following the course of the southern bank of the Arkansas, to its source in latitude forty-one degrees north; and
thence, by the parallel of latitude, to the South Sea; the
whole being as laid down in Melish's map of the United States,
published in Philadelphia, improved to the 1st of January,
1818. But, if the source of the Arkansas River should be
found to fall north or south of latitude forty-one degrees, then
the line shall run from the said source due south or north, as
the case may be, till it meets the said parallel of latitude fortyone degrees, and thence along the said parallel to the South
Sea; the Sabine and the said Red and Arkansas Rivers, and
all the islands in the same, throughout the course thus described, to belong to the United States, and the western bank
of the Sabine, and the southern banks of the said Red and
Arkansas Rivers throughout the line thus described to belong
to Spain. And the United States hereby cede to His Catholic
Majesty all their rights, claims and pretensions to the territories lyingvest and south of the above described line; and
His Catholic Majesty cedes to the said United States all his
rights, claims and pretensions to any territories east and north
of said l ie, and, for himself, his heirs and successors, renounces

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

all claims to said territories forever."

The Spanish minister

required that "the boundary between the two countries shall
be the middle of the rivers, and that the navigation of the
Mr. Adams
said rivers shall be common to both countries."
replied that the United States had always intended that "the
property of the river should belong to them," and he insisted
on that point "as an essential condition, as the means of avoiding all collision, and as a principle adopted henceforth by the
United States in its treaties with its neighbors." He agreed,
however, "that the navigation of the said rivers to the sea
shall be common to both people." The Spanish minister assented "to ihe 100th degree of longitude and to remove all
difficulties, to admit the 42d instead of the 43d degree of latitude from the Arkansas to the Pacific Ocean." Annals of
Congress, Appendix, 15th Cong. 2d Sess. 2120, 2121, 2123.
We have alluded to this diplomatic correspondence to show
the circumstances under which the treaty of 1819 was made,
and to bring out distinctly two facts that are of some importance in the present discussion: 1. That the negotiators had
access to the map of Melish, improved to 1818 and published
at Philadelphia. 2. That the river referred to in the correspondence as Red River was believed by the negotiators to
have its source near Santa F6 and the Snow Mountains.
This brings us to the treaty itself. Its thiid and fourth
articles are in these words:
"ART. 3. The boundary line between the two countries,
west of the Mississippi, shall begin on the Gulf of -Mexico, at
the mouth of the river Sabine, in the sea, continuing north,
along the -western bank of that river to the 32d degree of latitude; thence, by a line due north, to the degree of latitude
where it strikes the Rio Roxo of Natchitoches, or Red River;
then following the course of the Rio Roxo, westward, to the degreo of longitude 100 west from London and 23 from Washington; then, crossing the said Red River, and running thence,
by a line due north, to the river Arkansas; thence, following
the course of the southern bank of the Arkansas, to its source,
in latitude 42 north; and thence by that parallel of latitude,
to the South Sea. The whole being as laid down in Melish's

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

map of the United States, published at Philadelphia, improved
to the first of January, 1818. But, if the source of the Arkansas River shall be found to fall north or south of latitude 420,
then the line shall run from the said source due south or north,
as the case may be, till it meets the said parallel of latitude 42,
and thence, along the said parallel, to the South Sea: All the
islands in the Sabine, and the said Red and Arkansas Rivers,
throughout the course thus described, to belong to the United
States; but the use of the waters, and the navigation ofthe
Sabine to the sea, and of the said kivers Roxo and Arkansas,
throughout the extent of the said boundary, on their respective banks, shall be common to the respective inhabitants of
both nations.
"The two high contracting parties agree to cede and renounce all their rights, claims, and pretensions, to the territories described by the said line; that is to say: the United
States hereby cede to His Catholic Majesty, and renotmce forever all their rights, claims and pretensions to the territories
lying west and south of the above-described line; and, in like
manner, His Catholic Majesty cedes to the said United States
all his rights, claims and pretensions to any territories east
and north of the said line; and for himself, his heirs, and
successors, renounces all claim to the said territories forever.
"ART. 4. To fix this line with more precision, and to place
the landmarks which shall designate exactly the limits of
both nationg, each of the contracting parties shall appoint a
Commissioner and a Surveyor, who shall meet before the termination of one year, from the date of the ratification of this
treaty, at Natchitoches, on the Red River, and proceed to run
and mark the said line, from the mouth of the Sabine to the
Red River, and from the Red River to the river Arkansas,
and to ascertain the latitude of the source of the said river
Arkansas, in conformity to what is above agreed upon and
stipulated, and the line of latitude 42, to the South Sea: they
shall make out plans, and keep journals of their proceedings,
and the result agreed upon by them shall be considered as
part of this treaty, and shall have the same force as if it were
inserted therein. The two governments will amicably agree

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

respecting the necessary articles to be furnished to those persons, and also as to their respective escorts, should such -be
deemed necessary." 8 Stat. 252, 254, 256.
So much of the Melish map of 1818 as is necessary to show
its bearing on.the present inquiry is reproduced on pages 30
and 31.
It may be observed here that the 100th meridian of longitude is inaccurately located on this map. That meridian, astronomically located, is more than one hundred miles farther
west than is indicated by the Melish map. This fact is clearly
shown by the record, and is not seriously questioned.
By the treaty of 1828, between the United States of America
and the United M exican States, concluded January 12, 1828,
the dividing limits of the respective countries were declared to
be the same as those fixed by the treaty of 1819. 8 Stat. 372.
The Republic of Texas, by an act passed December 19., 1836,
declared that the civil and political jurisdiction of that Republic extended to the following boundaries, to wit: "Beginning at the mouth of the Sabine River, and running west along
the Gulf of Mexico three leagues from land to the mouth of
the Rio Grande, thence up the principal stream of said river
to its source, thence due north to the forty-second degree of
north latitude, thence along the boundary line, as defined in
the treaty between the United States and Spain' to the beginning; and that the President be, and is hereby, authorized
and required to open a'negotiation with the government of
the United States of America, so soon as, in his opinion, the
public interest requires it, to ascertain and define the boundary line as agreed upon in said treaty." 1 Sayles' Early
Laws of Texas, Art. 257.
On the 25th of April, 1838, a convention was concluded
between the United States and the Republic of Texas for
marking the boundary referred to in the above treaty of
1828, as follows:'
"Whereas the treaty of limits made and concluded on the
twelfth day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand,
eight hundred and twenty-eight, between the United States of
America of the one part and the United Mexican States of

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.

30

Opinion of the Court.
No. 2.

Melish

Map of 1818, Western Half.

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.
No. 2. Melish Map of 1818, Eastern Half.

31

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

the other, is binding upon the Republic of Texas, the same
having been entered into at a time when Texas formed a part
o[ the United Mexican: States; And whereas it is deemed
proper and expedient, in order to avoid future disputes and
collisions between the United States and Texas in regard to
the boundary between the two countries as designated by said
treaty, that a portion of the same should be run and marked
without unnecessary delay: The President of the United
States has appointed John Forsyth their Plenipotentiary,
and the President of the Republic of Texas has appointed
Memucan Hunt its Plenipotentiary; and the said Plenipotentiaries having exchanged their full powers, have agreed upon
and concluded the following articles: Article I. Each of the
contracting parties shall appoint a commissioner and surveyor,
who shall meet, before the termination of twelve months from
the exchange of the ratifications of the convention, at New
Orleans, and proceed to run and mark that portion of the said
boundary which extends from the mouth of the Sabine, where
that river enters the Gulf of Mexico, to the Red River. They
shall make out plans and keep journals of their proceedings,
and the result agreed upon by them shall be considered as
part of this convention, and shall have the same force as if it
were inserted therein. Article II. And it is agreed that until
this line is marked out, as is provided for in the foregoing
article, each of the contracting parties shall continue to exercise jurisdiction in all territory over which its jurisdiction has
hitherto been exercised, and that the remaining portion of the
said boundary line shall be run and marked at such time hereafter as may suit the convenience of both the contracting parties, until which time each of the said parties shall exercise,
without the interference of the other within the territory of
which the boundary shall not have been so marked and run,
jurisdiction to the same extent to which it has been heretofore usually exercised." Treaties and Conventions, 1079, ed.
1889. By the act of Congress of January 11, 1839, c. 2,
provision was made for carrying this convention into effect.
5 Stat. 312. It does not appear that anything of importance
was accomplished under that act.

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

By a joint resolution passed March 1, 1845, Congress consented that "the territory properly included within and rightfully belonging to the Republic of Texas" might be erected
into a State to be admitted into the Union, one of the conditions of such consent being that the new State be formed, subject to the adjustment by the United States of all questions of
boundary that might arise with other governments. 5 Stat.
797. The conditions prescribed were accepted by Texas. 1
Sayles' Early Laws of Texas, Art. 1531. And by the joint
resolution of Congress, approved December 29, 1845, Texas
was admitted as one of the States of the Union, on an equal
footing in-all respects with the original States. 9 Stat. 108.
Then came the act of Congress, approved September 9, 1850,
c. 49, 9 Stat. 446, entitled "An act proposing to the State of
Texas the establishment of her northern and western boundaries, the relinquishment by the said State of all territory
claimed by her exterior to said boundaries, and of all her
claims upon the United States, and to establish a territorial
government for New Mexico.", By that act certain propositions were made to the State of Texas, which, being accepted,
were to be binding upon the -United States and the State
Among -them were the following:
"First. The State of Texas will agree that her boundary
on the north shall commence at the point at which the meridian of one hundred degrees west from Greenwich i§ intersected by the parallel of thirty-six degiees thirty minutes
north latitude, and shall run from said point due west to the
meridian of one hundred and three degrees west from Greenwich; thence her boundary shall run due south to the thirtysecond degree of north latitude; thence on the said parallel
of ihirty-two degrees of north latitude to the Rio Bravo del
Norte; and thence with the channel of said river to the Gulf
of Mexico. Second. The State of Texas cedes to the United
States all her claim to territory exterior to the limits and
boundaries which she agrees to establish by the first article of
this agreement. Third. The State of Texas relinquishes all
claim upon the United States .for liability of the debts of
Texas, and for compensation or indemnity for the surrender
VOL. CLXiI-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

to the United States of her ships, forts, arsenals, custom
houses, custom-house revenues, arms and munitions of war,
and public buildings, with their sites, which became the
property of the United States at the time of the annexation.
Fourth. The United States, in consideration of said establishment of boundaries, cession of claim to territory and relinquishment of claims, will pay to the State of Texas the sum
of ten millions of dollars in a stock bearing five per cent interest, and redeemable at the end of fourteen years, the interest
payable half-yearly at the treasury of the United States," and
agreed to "be bound by the terms thereof, according to their.
import and meaning." 9 Stat. 446, 447.
The State accepted these propdsitions by an act, approved
November 25, 1850, and agreed to "be bound by the terms
thereof according to their import and meaning." 2 Sayles'
Early Laws of Texas, Art. 2127.
In the light of these general facts, we recur to the treaty of
1819, from which it will be seen that the line agreed upon starting from the point where the line due north from the
Sabine River, at the 32d degree of latitude, strikes the Rio
Roxo of Natchitoches or Red- River -followed
"the course
of the Rio Roxo westward to the degree of longitude 100 west
from London and 23 from Washington."
The contention of the United States is that this requirement
cannot be met except by going westward along and up the
Prairie Dog Town Fork of Red River to the point where (as
shown on the first of the ab6ve maps) that river intersects the
100th meridian- the government claiming that that river,
and not the North Fork of Red River, is a continuation or
the principal fork of the Red River of the treaty.
The State insists that, even if the treaty be interpreted as
referring to the true 100th meridian of longitude, and not to
-that meridian as located on the Mlelish map of 1818, "the
course of the Rio Roxo westward" from the intersection of
the line extending north from Sabine River to Red River,
takes the line, not westwardly along the Prairie Dog Town
Fork 'of Red River, but northwardly and northwestwardly
up the North Fork of the Red River, (from its intersection

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of-the Court.

with Red River,) to the point where the latter fork crosses
the true 100th meridian, between the thirty-fifth, and thirtysixth degrees of latitude.
But at the outset of the discussion the State propounds this
proposition: That the treaty of 1819 having declared that the
boundary lines between the United. States and Spain should
be as laid down on Melish's map of 1818, it is immaterial
whether the location of the 100th meridian of longitude on
that map was astronomically correct or not, or whether the
one or the other fork of Red River was or is the continuation
of the main river; that the map of Melish having fixed the
100th degree of longitude west from Greenwich below and
east of the mouth of the North Fork of Red River, as now
known, is conclusive 'upon both governments, their privies
and successors. If this position be sound, the case is for the
State; for it'is conceded that the entire territory in dispute
is west of the 100th meridian, as that meridian appears on the
Melish map of 1818, although it is, beyond all question, east
of the true 100th meridian, astronomically located and as long
recognized both by the United States and Texas.
The State's answer thus presefits this issue: "That the line
of said 100th meridian of longitude west from London, as laid
down on said map of Melish, intersec.ts the Rio Roxo, or Red
River, a distance of many miles east of what is claimed by
the complainant to be the true line of said meridian, and
many miles east of' the point where the IKecheahquehono
[Prairie Dog Town Fork of Red River] empties its waters
into the Rio Roxo of the treaty; and said meridian so laid
down on Melish's map and extended north to the 42d parallel
of north latitude includes, as territbryproperly belonging to
and conceded to Spain under the terms of the treaty, and belonging of right to Texas by virtue of the establishment of
her independence, a large part of the lands now belonging to
he Chiceasaw and other tribes of Indians,,under concessions by
treaty, as well as a portion of the present States of Kansas and
of Colorado, and apart of the territory of New Mexico. Defendant shows that long before and after the date of said
treaty of 1819'the King of Spain claimed all this territory

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

lying wesb of said 100th meridian of longitude and. south of
said 42d parallel of latitude as laid down upon iMelish's map;
and in effectuation of such claim exercised repeated acts of
ownership and dominion over the same without question; and
after securing her independence and establishment as an independent nation, the United Mexican States likewise asserted
iheir dominion and authority over said territory; and Texas,
both as a separate Republic and as a State of the Union, has
,claimed and exercised complete ownership and dominion over
said territory, including the territory now in controversy, by
occupation of said territory by her armies, and by extending
the operation of her laws over the same, and by various
other acts and declarations, until the happening of the matters and things now here to be shown and set forth."
Referring to the pleadings and to the act of Congress of
January 31, 1885, in which the terms of the treaty are recited,
and which directs the commissioners appointed under it to
"mark the point where the 100th meridian of longitude crosses
Red River in accordance with the terms of the treaty," the
counsel for the State says: "But if the intersection of the
100th meridian of longitude with the parallel 36' 30' north latitude, constituting the beginning of the north boundary line of
Texas under the act of 1850, 9 Stat. 446, c. 49, shall be held
to mean the actual, and not the Melish, intersection, it does.
not follow that the actual and not the Melish 100th meridian
constitutes the eastern boundary line of the State. .
Nor is the situation altered by the fact that this construction
will leaveforfuture determinationthe ownership of a portion
of the northeastern territory."
If, as asserted by the State, this case should be determined
upon the basis that the 100th meridian is where the ]Melish
map located it, and not where it is in fact, this court may well
decline to recognize a claim attended with such grave consequences as those suggested by the answer, unless it be clearly
established.
Undoubtedly, the intention of the two governments, as
gathered from the words of the treaty, must control; and the
entire instrument must be examined in order that the real in-

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

tention of the contracting parties may be ascertained. 1 Kent
Com. 174. For that purpose the map to which the contracting parties referred is to be given the same effect as if it had
been expressly made a part of the treaty. -McIver'sLessee Y.
Walker, 9 Oranch, 173 ; fMcIer's -Lessee v. Walker, 4 Wheat.
444; N oonan v. Lee, 2 Black, 499 ; Cragin v. Powell,128 U. S.
691, 696; Jeferis v. Omaha Land Co., 134 U. S. 178, 194.
But are we justified, upon any fair interpretation of the
treaty, in assuming that the parties regarded that map as ab•solutely correct, in all respects, and not to be departed from in
any particular or under any circumstances? Did the contracting partieA intend that the words of the treaty should be literally followed, if by so doing the real object they had in mind
would be defeated? The boundary-line was to begin at the
mouth of the river Sabine, and continue north along the western bank of that river to the 32d degree of latitude. Was it
intended that the Melish map should control in fixing the
point where the Sabine River met that degree of latitude?
Was the line due north from Sabine. River to Red River to
begin at the intersection of Sabine River with the true 32d
degree of latitude, or where ielish's map indicated the place
of such intersection? The two governments certainly intended that the line should be run from the Gulf along the
western bank of the Sabine River, and after it reached Red
River that it should follow the course of that river, leaving
both rivers within the United States. But it cannot be
supposed that they had in view the intersection of Sabine
River with any degree of latitude other than the true 32d
degree of latitude, nor the crossing of the line extending
along the Red River westward with any meridian of longitude other than the true 100th meridian. The fourth article
of the treaty shows that the contracting parties contemplated
that the line should be fixed with more precision than it was
then possible to do; and to that end provision was made for
the appointment of commissioners and surveyors, who should
run and mark it, and designate exactly the limits of both
nations- the results of such proceedings, it was declared, to
be considered part of the treaty, having the same force as if

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

inserted therein. Melish's map of 1818 was taken as a general basis for the adjustment of boundaries, but the rights of
the two nations were made subject to the location of the
lines, with more precision, at a subsequent time, by commissioners and surveyors appointed by the respective governments. So far as is disclosed by the diplomatic correspondence
that preceded the treaty, the negotiators assumed for the purposes of a settlement of their controversy that IMelish's map
was, in the main, correct. But they did not and could not
know that it was accurate in all respects. Hence they were
willing to take it as the basis of a final settlement, the fixing
of the line with more precision, and the designating of the
limits of the two nations with more exactness, to be the work
of commissioners and surveyors, who were to meet at a
named time, and the result of whose work should become a
part of the treaty. While the line agreed upon was, speaking
generally, to be as laid down on Melish's map, it was to be fixed
with more precision, and designated with more exactness, by
representatives of the two nations.
But there is another, and, perhaps, stronger view of this
question, and which is equally conclusive, even if the 100th
meridian originally contemplated by the treaty of 1819 were
assumed to have been the erroneous meridian line of Mfelish's
map. This view rests upon the official acts of the general
government and of Texas, and requires that the present controversy shall be determined upon the basis that the line,
which by the treaty was to follow "the course of the Rio
Roxo westward," extends to the true 100th meridian, thence
by a line due north.
As heretofore stated, the Republic of Texas, by an act
passed December 19, 1836, declared that its civil and political
jurisdiction extended to the following boundaries: "Beginning at the mouth of the Sabine River and running west
along the Gulf of Mlexico three leagues from the land, to the
mouth of the Rio Grande; thence up the principal stream of
said river-to its source; thence due north to the forty-second
degree of north latitude; thence along the boundary line as
defined in the treaty between the United States and Spain, to

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

the beginning." The President of that Republic was authorized and required by the same act to open a negotiation with
the United States to ascertain and define the boundary as
agreed upon in that treaty. 1 Sayles' Early Laws of Texas,
Art. 257. This boundary had not been defined when Texas
was admitted as a State into the Union, with the territory
"properly included within and rightfully belonging to the
Republic of Texas." The settlement of that question,.together
with certain claims made by Texas against the United States,
were among the subjects that engaged the attention of Congress during the consideration of the various measures constituting the Compromises of 1850. The result was the passage
of the above act of September 9,1850, c. 49, the provisions of
which were promptly accepted by the State of Texas. This
legislation of the two governments constituted a convention
or contract in respect of all matters embraced by it. The
settlement of 1850 fixed the boundary of Texas "ofi the
north" to commence at the point at which the 100th meridian intersects the parallel of 36' 30' north latitude, and from
that point the northern line ran due west to the 103d meridian,
thence due south to the 32d degree of north latitude, thence
on that parallel to the Rio Bravo del Norte, and thence with
the channel of that river to the gulf of Mexico. Texas, in
the same settlement, ceded its claim to territory exterior
to the limits and boundaries so established, and relinquished
all claims upon the United States for liability for its debts,
and for compensation or indemnity for the surrender to the
United States of its ships, forts, -arsenals, custom houses,
custom-house revenues, arms and munitions of war and public
buildings, with their sites, which became the property of the
United States at the time of the admission of the State into
the Union. In consideration of that establishment of boundaries, cession of claim to territory, and relinquishment of
claims, the United States agreed to pay and has paid to
Texas the sum of ten millions of dollars. 9 Stat. 446.
The words "the meridian of one hundred degrees west
from Greenwich," in the act of 1850, manifestly refer to the
true 100th meridian, and not to the 100th meridian as located

OCTOBER TERiVI, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

on the Melish map of 1818. The precise location of that
meridian has not been left in doubt by the two governments.
The United States has erected a monument at the point
where the 100th meridian is intersected by the parallel of 360
30' north latitude. This was done many years ago, upon
actual survey, and Texas has, by its legislation, often recognized the true 100th meridian to be as located by the United
States. Looking at the above map of 1892, it will be seen
that the counties of Lipscomb, Hemphill, Wheeler, Collingsworth and Childress are all immediately west of the 100th
meridian. These counties were established in 1876. 3 Sayles'
Early Laws of Texas, Art. 4285. The boundaries of each, as
defined in the legislative enactments of Texas, are given in
the margin. It will be seen that the eastern boundary of each
county is the 100th meridian. By the act creating Lipscomb
County, its boundary immediately south of the parallel of 360
30' north latitude, begins "at a monument on the intersection
of the 100th meridian and the thirty-sixth and a half degree
of latitude." That monument is the one established by the
United States after the settlement of 1850. Peculiarly significant is the boundary of Childress County, one of the lines
of which runs up Prairie Dog Town River - which river, the
United States insists, constitutes the southern boundary of
1 The county of Lipscomb.-Beginning at a monument on the intersection of the one hundredth meridian, and the thirty-sixth and a half (36j)
degree of latitude, 1629 feet north of the 132d mile post on the one hundredth meridian; thence west thirty miles to the thirtieth mile post on the
36J degree of latitude ; thence south thirty miles and 1629 feet ; thence
east thirty miles to the 102d mile post ; thence north thirty miles and 1629
feet to the beginning.
The county of Hemphill. -Beginning at the northeast corner of Roberts
County, and the southeast corner of Ochiltree County and southwest corner
of Lipscomb County; thence east thirty miles to the southeast corner of
Lipscomb County, to the 102d mile post on the one hundredth meridian;
thence south thirty miles to the 72d mile post; thence west thirty miles to
the southeast corner of Roberts County; thence north thirty miles to the
place of beginning.
The county of Wheeler. -Beginning at the 72d mile post, on the one
hundredth meridian, the southeast corner of Hemphill County; thence west
thirty miles to the southwest corner of Hemphill County and the southeast

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

the territory in dispute-"to the initial monument on the
100th meridian." The "initial monument" here referred to
was erected in 1857 under the authority of the United States
to mark the place where, as its representatives then and have
ever since claimed, the line, "following the course of the Rio
Roxo westward," crossed the 100th meridian.
It thus appears that the two governments, with knowledge
that the treaty of 1819 referred to Melish's map of 1818, have,
by official action, declared that the 100th meridian is located
on the line that marks the eastern boundaries of the counties
of Lipscomb, Hemphill, Wheeler and Oollingsworth, in the
State of Texas. Besides, the proof in the cause leaves no.
room to doubt that the true 100th meridian is, as shown by
the above map of 1892, immediately east of those counties.
The acts of the two governments and the evidence, therefore,
concur in showing that the 100th meridian is not correctly
delineated .on the Melish map of 1818. And in the above
settlement of a part of the boundary lines between the United
States and Texas, the two governments have accepted the
true 100th meridian and discarded the Melish 100th meridian.
Giving effect to the compromise act of 1850, the suggestion
that the 100th meridian must be taken, in the present controversy, to be as located on the Melish map of 1818, is wholly
inadmissible. It cannot be sipposed that the United States
corner of Roberts County; thence south thirty miles; thence east thirty
miles to the 42d mile post, on the one hundredth meridian; thence north
thirty miles to the place of beginning.
The county, of Collingsworth.-Beginning at the northeast corner of
Donley County and southeast corner of Gray County, and southwest corner
of Wheeler County; thence east thirty miles to the southeast corner of
Wheeler County at the 42d mile post, on the one hundredth meridian;
thence south thirty miles; thence west thirty miles to the southeast corner
of Donley County; thence north thirty miles to the place of beginning.
The county of Childress.-Beginning at the southeast corner of Collingsworth County at the 12th mile post, on the one hundredth meridian; thence
west 23 miles; thence south thirty miles; thence east about thirty-five
miles, to the new west line of Hardeman County; thence north to-Prairie
Dog Town River; thence up said river to the inftial monument on the one
hundredth meridian; thence north to the 12th mile post at the place of
beginning. 3 Sayles' Early Laws of Texas, Art. 4285.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

would have agreed to pay ten millions of dollars to the State
of Texas, as provided in the act of 1850, if it had been suggested that any dispute in respect of boundary not covered
by that act, and so far as such dispute depended upon degrees
of longitude, was to be determined otherwise than by reference to the true 100th meridian. Assuming that the two
governments did not intend by the settlement of 1850 to fix
the point where the line, "following the course of the Rio
Roxo westward," crossed the 100th meridian, nevertheless it
is inconceivable that the two governments intended that, in
establishing the boundary of Texas "on the north," the 100th
meridian mentioned in the enactment of 1850 should be the
true 100th meridian, but that the State should be at liberty to
insist, in respect of its boundary along Red River, that the
100th meridian be taken to be as delineated on the ]Melish
map, and thereby obtain all the land, within the limits of
Indian Territory, between the true 100th meridian and the
Melish 100th meridian.
We have said that the treaty itself, upon a reasonable interpretation of its provisions, left it open to the contracting
parties, through commissioners and surveyors, to fix the lines
with precision, and, therefore, to show, by competent evidence,
where the true 100th meridian was located. But if this were
not so, we should feel obliged to hold that the convention or
contract between the United States -and Texas, as embraced
in their respective enactments of 1850, together with the subsequent acts of the two governments, require in the determination of the present controversy that the 100th meridian,
mentioned in the treaty of 1819, be taken to be the true 100th
meridian, and, consequently, that the line, "following the
course of the Rio Roxo westward to the degree of longitude
100 west from London," must go, and was intended to go, to
the true or actual 100th meridian, and not stop at the Melish
100th meridian.
So that the real question for solution is whether, as contended by the United States, the line "following the course of
the Rio Roxo westward to the degree of longitude 100 west
from London," meets the 100th meridian at the point where

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

Prairie Dog Town Fork of Red River crosses that meridian,
or whether, as contended by the State, it goes northwestwardly
up the :North Fork of Red River until that river crosses the
100th meridian many miles due north of the initial monument
established by the United States in 1857.
Upon this point the evidence is very voluminous. Much of
it, we feel constrained to say, is of little value, and tends only
to confuse the mind in its efforts to ascertain what was within
the contemplation of the negotiators of 1819.
It is a matter of regret that the question now presented,
involving interests of great magnitude, should not have been
determined, in some satisfactory mode, before or shortly after
Texas was admitted as one of the States of the Union. It has
remained unsettled for so long a time that it is not now so
easy of solution as it would have been when the facts were
fresh in the minds of living witnesses who had more intimate
knowledge of the circumstances than any one can now possibly
have upon the most thorough investigation.
Before looking at the Melish map of 1818, it will be proper
to inquire as to the general course of Red River, so far as any
information had been given to the public prior to the maIting
of that map. Probably the most trustworthy publication on
the subject is Pike's "Account of expeditions to the sources
of the Mississippi and through the western parts of Louisiana
to the source of the Arkansaw, Kans, La Platte and Pierre
Juan Rivers, performed by order of the .government of the
United States, during the years 1805, 1806 and 1807; and a
tour through the interior parts of New Spain, when conducted
through these provinces by order of the Captain General in
the year 1807." This work was copyrighted in 1808 and published at Philadelphia in'1810. It was illustrated by numerous charts, copies of which are found on pages- 44, 45, 46, 47,
post-one of them being "A Chart of the Internal Part of
Louisiana," the other, "A Map of the Internal Provinces of
New. Spain." Those charts show a large river called Red
River, extending from a point near Santa F4 between latitude
370 and 380 across what is now the State of Texas, passing-

Natchitoches, Louisiana.

Both show a chain of mountains

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.
No: 3. Western Half.

PIKE'S CHART OF THE INTERNAL PART

OF LOUISIANA, &C-PT.-P-.1810.

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.
No. 3. Eastern Half.

I
fS'a

45

46

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

No. 4. Western Half.

Rio Coloraao

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

No. 4. Eastern Half.

PJIE'S MAP oP TBE INTERNAL PRovIkcEs

op Nzw SPA=n-1810.

OCTOBER TERMf, 1895.
.Opinion of the Court.

running north and south, marked on one chart as "White
.snow capped mountains, very high."
These are undoubtedly the Snow Mountains referred to in
the letter of Mr. Adams to the Spanish minister, of October
31, 1818, in which, as we have seen, the former proposed that
the line from east to west should follow the course of Red
River "to its source, touching the chain of the Snow Mountains, in latitude 370 25' north, longitude 1060 151 west, or
thereabouts." East of the Snow Mountains, as delineated on
these charts, are two prongs or small streams, "Rio Rojo"
and "Rio Moro," the source of the former being northeast,
and the latter nearly east, of Santa F6. The Rio Rojo rises
between the 37th and 38th, and the Rio Moro between the
36th and 37th degrees of latitude, both near the 106th degree
of longitude. Between those prongs, on one of the charts,
are the words "Source of Red River of the Mississippi." The
prongs or streams Rio Rojo and Rio Moro unite at about the
37th degree of latitude, and form one stream, marked on- one
chart as Red River, and on the other as "Rio Colorado [Red
River] of Natchitoches." The stream, thus formed, runs for
a short distance eastwardly, then southeastwardly until it
reaches a point a little west of the 100th meridian, then eastwardly, then a little northeastwardly, then southeastwardly,
passing Natchitoches, to a junction with the Wichita River
near the Mississippi River. It should also be stated that on
these charts is marked a road or line extending from Tous,
(which is north of Santa F6,) through a gap of the Snow
Mountains, and thence along the north side of Red River.
That line is described as "The route pursued by the Spanish
cavalry when going out from Santa F6 in search of the
American exploring parties commanded by Major Sparks and
Captain Pike in the year 1806." These charts or maps, in
connection with the chart of the lower part of Red River, not
here reproduced, also show throughout the entire distance
from lNatchitoches to the source of Red River near the Snow
Mountains, small streams emptying into the main river from
the north and northwest, none of which, however, are marked
with names, and that north of Red River, as delineated by

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

Pike, and east of the 100th meridian of lofigitude, is an
unnamed stream, not of great length, but having the same
general course as the stream now known as the North Fork
of Red River.
That prior to Melish's map of 1818 it was believed that the
Red River that passed Natchitoches had its source in the
mountains near Santa F6 is manifest from Melish's own publications. In 1816 he published at Philadelphia a small book,
with the title "A geographical description of the United
States with the contiguous British and Spanish possessions."
It accompanied his map of those countries. In that work it
appears that he used Humboldt's map of 1804, and Pike's
Tilvels. He said: "The Red River rises in the moutatains to
the eastward of Santa F4, between north latitude 370 and

380, and, pursuing a general southeast course, makes several
remarkable bends, as exhibited on the map; but it receives no
very considerable streams until it forms a junction with the
Wachitta, and its great mass of waters, a few miles before it
reaches the Mississippi." pp. 13 and 39. See also the third
edition of his work published in 1818, pp. 14 and 42.
On Darby's map of the United States, including Louisiana,
published in 1818, and prefixed to his "Emigrant's Guide,".
appears the "Red River of Natchitoches," formed by two
prongs, and extending southeastwardly from a point near the
intersection, of the 107th degree of longitude and the 40th
degree of latitude to its junction withwaters near the Mississippi. East of the 100th meridian are two unnamed streams
coming from the northwest, each much shorter than the main
Red River, as delineated on that map. It is stated in this
work that the Red River "rises near Santa F4 in N. lat. 370
30' and 290 west of Washington, runs nearly parallel to the
Arkansas, joins the Mississippi at 31' N. lat. after a comparative course of 1100 miles." p. 50.
In view of the facts stated, particularly in view of Melish's
knowledge of Pike's publication and the statements in his own
work, it cannot be doubted that when tbe Melish map of 1818
was published it was believed that there was a Red River that
continued without break from its source near Sante F6 or the
VOL. cLxii-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Snow Mountains until it joined other waters east and southeast of Iatchitoches, near the Mississippi.
Following the course of Jled River, as laid down on the
Melish map of 1818, it is impossible to doubt that in the mind
of Melish the IRed River was the stream represented by Pike as
having two prongs, Rio Rojo and Rio Moro, near Santa F -, and
as running without break, first easterly, then southeastwardly,
then eastwardly for a comparatively short distance, and then
southeastwardly to its mouth near the Mississippi River. On
the north and east of Red River, as thus marked, there was
no stream connected with it that was marked by any name.
There was an unnamed stream, on the north side of the main
river, which emptied into the latter between the 101st and
102d degrees of west longitude as defined on that map. If
regard be had alone to the map of 1818, it is more than probable that the river marked on it as having near its source two
prongs, Rio Rojo and Rio Moro, and which formed one stream
that continued without break southeastwardly, and into whbich,
between the 101st and 102d degrees of longitude, as marked on
that map, came from the northwest an unnamed stream, was
the river designated on Pike's chart as Red River, and was
the Red River of the treaty of 1819. The suggestion that the
river marked on the Melish map as having the two prongs,
Rio Rojo and Rio Aforo, and running southeastwardly, was the
river now known as the INorth Fork of the Red River, is without any substantial foundation upon which to rest. If the
latter river is delineated at all on the Melish map, it is the unnamed stream that entered the main river from the northwest,
between the 101st and 102d meridians as located on that map.
There is a large amount of evidence of a documentary character showing that this interpretation of the Melish map is
correct. We have before us "A map of the United States,
with the contiguous British and Spanish possessions, compiled
from the latest and best authorities by John Melish." It was
copyrighted June 16, 1820, and published at Philadelphia by
Finlayson, the successor of Melish. A part of that map is reproduced on pages 52, 53. It is spoken of as Melish's map
of 1823, because that is the year to which it was improved.

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
"Opinion of the Court.

From that map it appears that a line up the Rio Roxo or Red
River, from the northeastern corner of Texas to the 100th
meridian, is substantially an east and west line, and-that west
of the 100th meridian it is westward and northwestwardly to. a
point near SantaF6 and the Snow Mountains.

* If the case depended upon that map it could not be doubted
that the territory in dispute is outside of the limits of Texas.
The direction of the treaty is to run westward, not northwestwardly, on Red River to the 100th meridian. According to
the view pressed by the State, the true line extends, from the
junction of the North Fork of Red River with Red River,
northwardly, then easterly, then northwestwardly up that
fork, .although at such junction there is anotheiFvide stream,
coming almost directly from the west, and which fully meets
the requirement of the treaty to follow the course of the Red
River westwardly to the 100th meridian. We do not feel authorized to assent to this view. In our judgment the direction
in the treaty to follow the course of the Red River westward
to the 100th meridian takes the line, not up the North Fork,
but westwardly with the river now known as the Prairie. Dog
Town Fork, or South Fork of Red River, until it reaches that
meridian, thence due north to the point where Texas agreed
that its line "6n the north" should commence.
This conclusion is strongly fortified by an inspection of the
numerous maps placed before us, and which were made prior
to February 8, 1860, on which day the legislature of Texas,
with knowledge that the territory in dispute was claimed by
the United States, passed an act creating the county of Greer,
and thereby assumed that it was part of the territory properly
and rightfully belonging to that State, at the time its independence was achieved, as well as when it was admitted into
the Union. 2 Sayles' Early Laws of Texas,:Art. 2886. Every
map before us, published after the treaty of 1819 and prior to
1860, beginning with the Melish map of 1823, shows that the
line, going from east to west, followed the course of Red
River westward until it crossed the true 100th meridian at or
ilear the southwest corner of the-territory designated as "Unassigned Land." Upon each and all of these maps appear

52

OCTOBER TERITY,

1895.

Opinion of the Court.
No. 5. Melish Map of 1823, Western Half.

I

dw

Aj

.-

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of-the Court.
No. 5. Melish

Mao of 1823, Eastern Half.

4. ZV
4c

z.
9t

d;°
-Il

53

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion.of the Court.

streams coming from the northwest, having a northwest and
southeast course, that empty into the main river. But none
of those streams are marked as a part of the line established
by the treaty of 1819.
Among the maps to which we refer are the 'following:
1. "A map of Mexico, Louisiana and the Missouri Territory,
including the States of Mississippi, Alabama Territory, East
and West Florida, Georgia, South Carolina and part of the
Island of Cuba," by John H. Robinson, M.D., copyrighted in
1819, and published at Philadelphia. The author is no doubt
the gentleman of the same name who accompanied Major
Pike in his expeditions, and is spoken of by that officer as a
man of enterprise and science. The river marked on that
map as Red River east of the 100th meridian has its source in
the region of Santa F4, and corresponds with the Red River
or the Rio Colorado of iNatchitoches, as delineated on Pike's
map. 2. Morse's map of the United States, published in 1822,
and which accompanied an official report, made by him in
that year to the Secretary of War, of the conditions of the
various Indian tribes of the country. On this map appears
Red River with its source not far from Santa F4, and running
southeastwardly to a short distance West of the 100th meridian,
from which point it extends eastwardly all along the southern
line of Indian Territory, thence southeastwardly to the Mississippi. 3. Carey & Lea's Atlas of 1822. On.this map appears Red River having a westward course the entire distance
from about the 94th to the 102d. degree of longitude, between
the 33d and 34th degrees of latitude, and constituting the
southern line of the Indian Territory. Red River on this
map has its source near the Snow Mountains. 4. The map of
Major Long, of the Topographical Engineers, inscribed to Mr.
Calhoun, Secretary of War, and published in 1822. On this
map appears a river with its source near the mountains of'
Santa F6, and running southeastwardly, then eastwardly to
the 100th imeridian, and continuing then eastwardly along the
entire line between Indian Territory and Texas. As delineated on Long's map, between the, 103d and 101st meridians,
that river is marked "Rio Roxo or Red River," and near the

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

95th meridian it is marked "Red River." 5. Tanner's map
of North America, 1822. 6. Tanner's map of North America
(1823) shows a river on the south border of what is now Indian Territory, marked Red River. On each side of it, after it
passes the 100th meridian, there are prongs or streams north
and south, and the river, near its end, after it has passed 250
west from Washington, is marked Red River. Going off
from the Red River at about 200 longitude west from Washington is the river marked False Washitta, which comes from
the northwest. Red River as marked on that map extends
nearer to Santa F6 than the False Washitta. 7. Finley's
American Atlas (1826) shows .Red River on the south boundary of Arkansas, whose course, going from the east, is westward until about the 100th meridian is reached, and west of
the 100th meridian it is marked "R. Roxo or Red R." At
longitude 200 west from Washington a river comes from the
northwest marked False Washitta. The extension marked as
above is much longer than any stream emptying into Red
River from the north or the northwest. 8: "A Cbmplete
historical, chronological and geographical American atlas,"
published by Carey & Lea, at Philadelphia, in 1826, on which
will be found marked Red River, whose course going from
east to west, is westwardly past the 100th meridian and then
northwestwardly in the direction Of Santa F6. At about the
98th meridian a much shorter strea~m comes* into it from the
northwest, and is unmarked. .9. A German atlas of America,
published at Leipsic in 1830, contains a map which shows the
boundary established in 1819 on the west side-of Louisiana,
and shows Red River along the whole southern line ,of the
Indian Territory.- Coming into that river from the northwest, at 990 longitude, is an unmarked stream; and coming
from the northwest, and emptying into Red River, at about
970 longitude, is another stream marked Falsche Washitta. 10.
Young's New Map of Texas, published at Philadelphia in
1835 by Mitchell, and a copy of part -of Which is given on
pages 56, 57. On this map appears Red River -with its
source a short distance-from Santa Fd, and marked, east of
the 100th meridian, as "Rio Roxo or Red River of Louisi-

56

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

No. 6. Western Half.

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

No. 6. Eastern Half.

.S

" 117

8

S.

YOUNG'S MAP,
PUBLISHED BY MITCHELL
'I

a --.-d.

R AA I

'

--

'$ ' .2:,&-

,

OCTOBER TER-M, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

ana," running first southeastwardly, then eastwardly along
the southern boundary of Indian Territory. 11. Maillard's
map of Texas, published in 1841, showing Red River as
forming the line between the Indian Territory and Texas
from about the 94th degree of longitude to the 100th meridian, having a course westward and eastward between those
meridians, and marked, on the map, east of the 100th meridian, as "Rio Roxo or Red River of Louisiana." 12. A map
compiled for the Department of State, under the direction of
Colonel Abert and Lieutenant Emory, and published by the
War Department in 1844. On this map appears Red River,
whose course going from east to west, from a point near the
94th degree of longitude, is substantially westward along the
whole line between the Indian Territory and Texas. After
passing the 100th meridian, its course is westwardly. and
northwestwardly in the direction of Santa F6. 13. Tanner's
map of the United. States and Mexico, published in 1846.
That map shows Red River having an eastward and westward
course, just south of the 34th degree of latitude, and marking
the southern line of Indian Territory. 14. Colton's map of
the United States, published in 1848, shows Red River forking near the 98th meridian, one fork extending westwardly
and northwestwardly toward Santa F6, marked Rio Roxo or
Red River between 1000 and 102, and Red River between
1020 and 1049. 15. Cordova's map of the State of Texas,
"(compiled from the records of the general land office of the
'State by Robert Creuzbaur," and published in 1849. Creuzbaur entered the land office in Texas before the admission of
that State into the Union, and remained there for many years.
While there he never heard of any claim by Texas to the
territory now called Greer County. Upon the original of this
map is a certificate by Thomas W. Ward, commissioner of
the land office of Texas from January 5, 1841, to March 20,
1848, and also a certificate by his successor, George W. Smyth.
Ward certified that the map had been compiled by Creuzbaur
from the records of the general land office of Texas, and that
it was the most correct representation of the State he had
seen or which had come to his knowledge; "the meanders of

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

the rivers are all correctly represented, being made from
actual survey." Smyth certified that he "has no hesitancy in
declaring it as his firm conviction that this map is a very correct representation of the State, representing all returns up to
date, having been compiled with great care from the records
of. the general land office." . On this map is also the certificate of the governor and secretary.of state as to the official
character of Ward and Smyth. It is further attested, under
date of August 12, 18,8, by Senators Rusk and Houston, and
by Representatives Kauffman and Pilsbury, as follows: "We,
the undersigned Senators and ]Representatives from the State
of Texas, do hereby certify that we have carefully examined
J. de Cordova's map of the State of Texas, compiled by R.
Creuzbaur from the records of the general land office of Texas,
and have no hesitation in saying that no map could surpass
this in accuracy and fidelity. It has delineated upon it every
county in the State, its towns,.rivers and streams, and we cordially recommend it to every person who desires correct geographical information of our State. To the persons desirous
of visiting Texas it would be invaluable." 16. T[itchell's
New Atlas of North and South America, published by.Thomas
Oowperthwaite & Co., Philadelphia, 1851, shows on the map
of Texas a river marked Red River, whose course, after the
latitude midway between 330 and 34 is reached, is westward.
It continues in a westerly direction with scarcely any change
until it reaches the 102d meridian, and then'turns northwestwardly in the direction of Santa F4.
All of these maps place the territory in dispute east of the
100th meridian and-,north of the southern line of the Indian
Territory as that line is- claimed by the United States. They
are all inaccurate, if any part of that territory is within the
limits of Texas. No one of them so locates Red -River that
its course, going westward (from the point where the line between Texas and Louisiana. intersects the- Red River) to the
100th meridian would take the line of the treaty of 1819 up
the North Fork of Red River until, it intersected that ,meridian near the 35th degree of latitude.
The conclusion to be -drawn from the 'maps to which we

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

have referred is sustained by other maps, namely: 1. A map
of the State of Texas purporting to have been compiled by
Stephen F. Austin and published at Philadelphia by H. S.
Tanner in 1837. The original is in the general land office
of Texas, and upon it is the certificate of the commissioner
of such land office, dated March 13, 1882, showing that it was
temporarily deposited in that office. 2. A map of Texas purporting to have been compiled from surveys on record in the
general land office of the Republic of Texas, in the year 1839,
by Richard S. Hunt and Jesse F. Randel. Upon this map is
a certificate of the secretary of state of Texas, approving the
map, and stating that it had been compiled "from the best
and most recent authorities." This certificate is followed by.
one from the commissioner of the general land office of the
Republic of Texas, dated April 25, 1839, stating that "the
compiler of this map has had access to the records of this
office, and that the map was compiled from them." 3. Disturnel's map of the United States of Mexico, published in 1847
and used at the making of the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo.
4. A map prepared for the President of the United States
under the direction of the commissioner of the land. office in
1849. 5. A Travellers' map of the State of Texas, "compiled
from the records of the general land office, the maps of the
Coast Survey, the reports of the boundary commission, and
various other military surveys and reconnoissances, by Charles
W. Pressler." This map was published in 1867. The author
held a position in the land office of Texas for more than
thirty years.
But it is said that the United States has in many ways, and
during a very long period, recognized the claim of Texas to
the -territory in dispute, and upon principles of justice and
equity should not be heard at this late day to question the
title of the State.
Is there any basis for the suggestion that the United States
has ever acquiesced in the claim of the State that the treaty
line westward along Red River to the 100th meridian follows
the course of the North Fork from its mouth northwardly
and northwestwardly until that meridian is reached at a point

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

north of the 35th degree of latitude? This question deserves
the most careful examination, for, long acquiescence by the
General Government in the claim of Texas would be entitled
to great weight.
In support of the suggestion that the United States has
recognized the claim of Texas, reference is made to the fact
that in 1843 some Texan troops under the command of
Colonel Snively went into the territory here in dispute and
were arrested and disarmed by Captain Cooke of the United
States Army, who had been specially assigned to the duty
of protecting caravans of Santa F4 traders through the territories of the United States to the Texan frontier. Of his
conduct the Republic of Texas complained. Connected with
that matter was an alleged forcible entry into the custom
house at Bryarly's Landing on Red River by certain citizens
of the United States, and the taking therefrom of goods that
had been seized as forfeited under the laws of Texas. The
settlement of that dispute between the two governments is
now relied on as showing a recognition by the United States
of the claim of Texas to the territory here in.controversy.
We have been inable to find anything in the history of those
proceedings to justify this contention of the State. From the
letter of Mr. Calhoun, Secretary of State, to Mr. Van Zandt,
Charg6 d'affaires of the Republic of Texas, of dite August 14,
1844, it appears that Captain Cooke's conduct in this matter
was made the subject of a court of inquiry. Mr. Calhoun said:
"The court was ordered, at the request of my immediate
predecessor, in conformity to the intimation contained in his
communication to Mr. Van Zandt, of the 19th of January last,
in order to ascertain more fully and in the most authentic
form the circumstances and facts connected with the proceedings of Captain Cooke and his command, in the disarming of
the Texan force under the command of Colonel Snively. Mr.
Van Zandt will find, on recurring to the extract, tha.t the
opinion of the court is, that the place where the Texan force
was disarmed was within the territory of the U ited ta'tes;
that there was nothing in the conduct of Captain Cooke which
was harsh or unbecoming, and that he did not exceed the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

authority derived from the orders under which he acted. It
is proper to add that the court consisted of three officers of
experience and high standing; that the case was fully laid
before it, and that its opinion appears to befully sustained by
the evidence. There seems to be no doubt that Captain Cooke
was sincerely of the opinion that the Texan force was within
the territory of the United States, and that the fulfilment
of his orders to protect the trade made it his duty, under such
circumstances, to disarm them. It is readily conceded that
the commander of the Texan forces, with equal sincerity,
believed the place he occupied was within the territory of
Texas. Which was right or which wrong can be ascertained
with certainty only by an actual survey and demarcation of
the line dividing the two countries between the Red and
Arkansas Rivers." After observing that it was neither necessary nor advisable to renew between the two governments
the discussion on the question whether the Texan force was or
was not within the limits of the United States, Mr. Calhoun
proceeded : "In the hope, therefore, of closing the discussion
and putting an end to this exciting subject, the undersigned
renews the offer of his predecessor contained in the communication above refered to, ' to restore the arms taken from the
Texan force, or to make compensation for them,' and his
assurance, given at the same time that ' his government never
meditated and will not sanction any indignity towards the
government of Texas, nor any wrong towards her people, and
will repair any injury of either kind which may be made to
appear.'"
This offer was accepted by the government of
Texas, its Charg6 d'affaires saying: "As it is not probable
that the arms could be returned in the order in which they
were taken, compensation will be received for them." House
Ex. Doc. 28th Congr. 2d Sess. Vol. 1, pp. 12, 109-10. This
was followed by an appropriation by Congress by the act of
March 30, 184, c. 47, of a sum of not exceeding $30,000, "for
settling the claims of the late Republic of Texas, according
to principles of justice and equity, for disarming a body
of Texan troops under the command of Colonel Snively, and
for entering the custom house at Bryarly's Landing, and tak-

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

ing certain goods therefrom." 9 Stat. 155, 168. It seems to
the court too clear to require discussion that, while, during the
above controversy, the United States and Texas asserted their
authority, respectively, over the place where the Texan troops
-were disarmed, the determination of the question of territorial
boundary was expressly waived, and a settlement was reached,
upon the basis indicated in the diplomatic correspondence and
in the act of Congress solely (to use the words of Mr. Calhoun)
to allay "irritated feelings between two countries, whose interest it is to be on the most friendly terms."
Proceeding with the inquiry whether the United States has
recognized the claim of Texas to own the territory in dispute,
we find that by the treaty of June 22, 1855, between the United
States and the Choctaw and Chickasaw Indians, the boundary
of the Choctaw and Chickasaw country was thus defined:
"Beginning at a point on the Arkansas River, one hundred
paces east of old Fort Smith, where the western' boundary
line of the State of Arkansas crosses the said river, and running thence due south to Red River; thence up Red River to
the point where the meridian of one hundred degrees west longitude crosses the same; thence north along said meridiani to the
main Canadian River; thence down said river to its junction
with the Arkansas River; thence down said river to the place
of beginning." 11 Stat. 611, 612. It may be here stated that
the Kiowas, Comanches and Apaches were settled in the Choctaw and Chickasaw country, as originally defined, in virtue of
the treaty of 1867. 15 Stat. 581, 582. In execution of the
treaty of 1855 the Commissioner of Indian Affairs made a contract with A. H. Jones and H. M. C. Brown for a survey of
some of the boundaries of the original Choctaw and Chickasaw country. From the field-notes of. those surveyors, which
were duly reported to the proper office, and certified to be correct by the astronomer and examiner of the Indian Boundary
Survey, we make these extracts: "The initial monument for
the 100th, meridian West longitude boundary line between the
State of Texas and the Choctaw and Chickasaw countries is
established 30 chs. dist. from the north bank of Red River on
an elevation near 50 ft. above the bed of the same. The situ-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

ation was seleted with a view to protect the monument so as
The river due
never to be destroyed by high water.
south from the monument is 76 chs. and 85 lks. wide from
high water mark to high water mark. Course N. 850 E. It
will be sufficient to say to those interested that there can be no
doubt as to the fact of its being the main branch of Red River,
as was doubted by some persons with whom we had conversed
relative to the matter before seeing it, for the reason the channel is larger than all the rest of the tributaries combined, besides affording its equal share of water, though like the other
branches in many places the water is swallowed up by its
broad and extensive sand beds, but water can at any season
of the year be obtained from one to three feet in main bed of
stream."
We come now to the act of June 5, 1858, c. 92, by which (in
harmony with the act of the legislature of Texas of February
11, 1854, 2 Sayles' Early Laws of Texas, Art. 2412) it was provided : "§ 1. That the President of the United States be, and
he hereby is, authorized and empowered to appoint a suitable
person or persons, who, in conjunction with such person or
persons as may be appointed by and on behalf of the State of
Texas for the same purpose, shall run and mark the boundary
lines between the Territories of the United States and the
State of Texas: Beginning at the point where the one hundredth degree of longitude west from Greenwich crosses Red
River, and running thence north to the point where said one
hundredth degree of longitude intersects the parallel of thirtysix degrees thirty minutes north latitude; and thence west
with the said parallel of thirty-six degrees and thirty minutes
north latitude to the point where it intersects the one hundred
and third degree of longitude west from Greenwich; and
thence south with the said one hundred and third degree of
longitude to the thirty-second parallel of north latitude; and
thence west with the said thirty-second degree of north latitude
to the Rio Grande. § 2. That such landmarks shall be established at the said point of beginning on Red River, and at the
other corners, and on the said several lines of said boundary,
as may be agreed on by the President of the United States, or

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion .of the Court.

those acting under his authority, and the said State of Texas,
or those acting under its. authority." 11 Stat. 310.
This act was passed before Jones and Brown had completed
and reported the survey made by them. Pursuant to this act
of 1858 a commissioner was appointed on behalf of the United
States. The Secretary of the Interior in his letter of instructions to that commissioner said, among other things: "After
surveying and marking that portion of the boundary defined
by the parallel of 360 30' north latitude, and which is known
to you to present no obstacle to a rapid survey and demarcation, to prevent delay and expense, you will take the 100th
meridian of west longitude as laid down on the map of the
southern boundary of Kansas, or as determined and -marked
upon- the surface of the earth by Messrs. Jones and Brown,
surveyors of the Chickasaw and Choctaw boundaries, from
observations made by Daniel G. Major, astronomer on the
part of the United States, at its intersection with the Northern Creek boundary, about midway between the North Fork
of the Canadian and the Canadian River, or by independent
observations, whichever, in your judgment from comparison,
may be found to be the most correct method. Having connected with, or observed for, the 100th meridian at its intersection with the Creek boundary, as determined by the parties
above mentioned, you will proceed as rapidly as possible over
the remaining.portion of this meridian to Red River, the termination of your field work, making such observations and
measurements as you may deem sufficient to verify it." The
governor of Texas having insisted upon the work of the survey being commenced on Red River rather than on the north
line, the Secretary of the Interior, after saying that that
course would involve a serious delay in fixing the initial-point
of the 100th meridian, which could only be done after several
months of careful astronomical observations and an exchange
of observations with some fixed observatory, said: "And, besides, by the time the commissioners of the respective governments are prepared to commence their labors at that point,
that line will probably have been determined and marked by
the United States surveyors,, Messrs. Jones and Brown, who
VOL.

CLxI-5

OCTOBER TERN, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

are now engaged upon the surveys of certain boundaries in the
Choctaw and Chickasaw country, under the provisions of the
treaty of January 22, 1855.

.

.

.

The above named survey-

ors are provided with a competent astronomer and excellent
instruments, and their line will probably require but simple
verification on the part of the joint commission! and for all
purposes appertaining to the interests of the citizens of Texas
along and adjacent to the proposed boundary line north of
the Red River, Brown and Jones' survey must prove sufficient
and satisfactory."
For reasons that need not be here detailed, the commissioners of the two governments separated before their joint
work was concluded. The commissioner of the United States
in a preliminary report, November 14, 1860, to the Secretary
of the Interior, stated that he commenced his survey by tracing the 100th meridian from its intersection with the Canadian River northward to its intersection with the parallel 360
30', forming the northeast corner of the boundary. Having
traced and marked that parallel to the northwest corner, he
returned along the bed of the Canadian River, and came again
to the 100th meridian, when he turned southward, and followed
that meridian "to its intersection with the south [Prairie Dog
Town] or main branch of Red River." In a subsequent report to, the Commissioner of the Land Office, under date of
September 30, 1861, he said: "That part of the 100th meridian
lying between the main branch of Red River" - by which
was meant Prairie Dog Town Fork or South Fork - "and the
southern boundary of the Cherokee country had been determined, run' and marked by Messrs. Jones and Brown in 1859,
under the direction of the Indian Bureau, as constituting the
boundary between Texas and a part of the Indian Territory.
So much of the boundary line as was thus established, I-on.
Jacob Thompson, then Secretary of the Interior, directed me
to adopt, and in pursuance of this instruction I simply retraced
the meridian up to where the work of Messrs. Jones and
Brown ended. Thence I prolonged it up to its intersection
with the parallel 36' 30'."
It should be here stated that the governor of Texas, under

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

date of April 28, 1860, instructed the commissioner appointed by him to "insist upon the North Fork as the main
Rio Roxo or Red River, and fts the true boundary line, as described in the treaty of 1819." And just before that date,
namely, on the 8th day of February, 1860, wlen there was no
reason to suppose that the United States acquiesced in the
claim of Texas, the legislature of that State passed the act
-heretofore referred to, creating the county of Greer with the
following boundary : "Beginning at the confluence of Red
River and Prairie Dog River, thence running up Red River,
passing the mouth of South Fork and following Main or North
Red River to its intersection with the 23d degree of west longitude; thence due .south across Salt Fork and to Prairie Dog
River, and thence following that river to the place of beginning." 2 Sayles' Early Laws of Texas, Art. 2886. Of course,
the purpose of that enactment was to assert, in solemn form,
the claim of the State to the territory in dispute.
During the Civil War, and for many years thereafter, this
vexed question did-not receive any attention from either government. The reason for this will be understood by every
one.

But the fact upon-which the State seems to lay most stress
is, that on the 24th day of February, 1879, Congress passed an
act entitled " An act to create the Northern Judicial District
of the State of' Texas, and to change the Eastern and Western
Judicial Districts of said State, and to fix the time and place
of -holding courts in said Districts." 20 Stat. 318, c. 97. By
the first section of that act it was provided "that a judicial
district is hereby created in the State of Texas, to. b6 called
the Northern Judicial District of saidState, and the territory
embraced in 'the following named counties, as now constituted,
shall compose said district, namely.": Here follows a list of
one hundred and ten counties,. including all the recognized
counties of Texas (except Red River and Bowie) that are immediately south of the line between the Indian Territory and
Texas, as that line is defined on the above map of 1892; and
midway in this long list appears the word " Greer."
The learned counsel'representing the, State, insist with confi-

OCTOBER TERMv, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

dence that this act of Congress should be regarded as an expression of a purpose by the United States to surrender its
claim to the territory in dispute, and as a recognition that
that territory was a part of Texas. But we cannot so construe
it without doing violence to the strong conviction we have
that Congress did not, for a moment, intend by this legislation
to part with extensive territorial possessions which the General Government had during a lQng period claimed to be under
its exclusive jurisdiction, and outside of the jurisdiction of any
State. We have been unable to find in the history of the act
of 1879 any intimation or suggestion that the placing of the
territory in dispute in the Northern Judicial District of Texas.
was made for the purpose of finally determining the controversy as to boundary that had long existed between the United
States and Texas. It was entirely competent for Congress
for judicial purposes to have included the whole or any part
of the Indian Territory within a judicial district established in
an adjoining State. If Congress was aware of the state enactment of 1860, the county of Greer might well have been
referred to as a county then "constituted,'? and to be placed,
for judicial purposes, within the Northern Judicial District of
the State of Texas. Thus the act of 1879 may not unreasonably be interpreted; and we think that any other construction
of its provisions would impute an intention to Congress to dispose of an important part of the territory of the United States
without disclosing such intention, either by the title of the act
passed, or by any words in its body indicating a purpose to
settle a disputed question of boundary. The respect due to a
codrdinate department of the government forbids this court
from taking any view of its action that would imply a willingness to accomplish by indirection, or by the use of vague forms
of expression, what, perhaps, could not have been accomplished
in an operi- manner, or by employing such clear, distinct language as the occasion and the interests involved alike demanded.
We are the more inclined to take this view because it is
manifest that, prior to the present litigation, the State of
Texas never regarded the act of 1879 as recognizing its.

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction over the territory in question, nor supposed that
that act placed Greer. County, so called, in the Northern
Judicial District of Texas for any except judicial purposes.
In the early part of the year 1882, Senator Maxey of Texas,
at the instance of the governor of that State, (and in anticipation of like action by the Texas legislature,) introduced into
the Senate of the United States a bill providing for the
appointment of a commission to consider the unsettled boundary dispute between the United States and Texas. There
was no pretence that the matter had been disposed of by the
act of 1879. That bill passed the Senate, but did not pass
the House of Representatives. In the latter body a bill was
introduced by a 'Representative from Texas which defined
the boundary between the Indian Territory and Texas as
follows: "Beginning at the southeast corner of said Indian
Territory, in the middle of Red River; thence up said river
to the junction of the Prairie Dog Town and North Forks of
said river; thence up the middle of said North Fork to the
100th meridian west from London; thence crossing said North
Fork by a line due north to the northeast corner of said State
of Texas, as now established." The Judiciary Committee reported adversely to this bill, and, as a substitute for it, reported
a joint resolution providing. for the appointment of a joint commission to ascertain and markthe point where the 100th meridian crosses Red River, in accordance with the treaty of 1819.
House Report No. 1282, 47th Cong. 1st Session. The report
of that committee will be found in the margin.1 It contains
I "The Committee on the Judiciary,by Mr. Willits, to whom was referred the.
bill (H.. R7. 1715) to define the boundary between the Indian Territory and the
State of Texas, begs leave to report:
That said bill seeks by legislative enactment to define said boundary at
the point in dispute, as the-North Fork of the Red River, instead of the
South Fork, commonly called the Prairie Dog Town Fork of the Red
River.
The importance of the issue involved may be seen at a glance, when it is
observed that the tract in dispute, lying within said two forks of Red
River, and bounded on thewest by the one hundredth Ineridian of longitude west of Greenwich, is about 60 miles long and 40 miles wide, probably
over 2000 square miles, and containing a large amount of valuable land. If

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

a full statement of the views entertained by that committee
in opposition to the claim of the State.
In the same year the State of Texas, by an act approved

this tract is a part of Texas, the lands belong to that State under the act
of her admission, while if it is a part of the area of the Indian Territory
it becomes a portion of the public domain.
The real question in dispute is which branch or fork of Red River is its
main branch, or the continuation of the river. The initial point of investigation is the treaty between the United States and Spain, dated February
22, 1819, in which this part of the boundary is defined as follows: After it
strikes the "Rio Roxo of Natchitoches or Red River," it then follows "the
course of the Rio Roxo westward to the degree of longitude 100 west from
London and 23 from Washington; then crossing said Red River and running
thence by a line due north to the Arkansas, etc. . . . the whole being
as laid down in Melish's map of the United States, published at Philadelphia,
improved to the 1st of January, 1818."
By this it will be seen that the western boundary of that portion of the
United States lying on the north of the Red River was said one hundredth
meridian, and that its southwestern corner was where said meridian crosses
the river. At the date of that treaty this region had never been accurately
explored, and the fact was not known that Red River divided into two
branches before it reached said meridian; in fact, the very map referred
to in the treaty makes the river a continuous stream, and does not lay down
the North Fork at all. Subsequent surveys have discovered the two forks,
and have definitely located said one hundredth meridian about 80 miles west
of where the two forks form the river proper. The treaty with Mexico
dated January 12, 1828, recognizes the boundary as stipulated in the aforesaid treaty with Spain, as did the joint resolution admitting Texas into the
Union. Even at as late a date as her admission into the Union there was
no knowledge of uncertainty in this boundary. Lieutenant Emory made a
map for the War Department in 1844 (which is now in the Land Office), on
which the North Fork is not laid down, and on that Red River traces nearly
the course of the Prairie Dog Town Fork. Disturnell's map of Mexico,
dated 1848, follows in this regard Emory's and Melish's maps.
The first accurate knowledge of these streams seems to have been
obtained by Captain R. B. Marcy and Captain George B. McClellan, who,
under the direction of the War Department, explored the headwaters of
the Red River in 1852, and made an elaborate report, which was published
under the authority of Congress. (See Ex. Doc. Senate, No. 54, Thirtysecond Congress, Second Session.)
Even this report did not develop the data for this dispute, as Captain
McClellan, doubtless from the inaccuracy of his instruments, located said
one hundredth meridian below the fork of the river several miles, over one
degree of longitude east of its actual location.

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

May 2, 1882, authorized and empowered its governor "to
appoint a suitable 'person or persons, who, in .conjunction
with such person or persons as may be appointed by, or on

The question does not seem to have arisen until after the astronomical
survey of said meridian by Messrs. Jones and Brown in 1857 to 1859, in
pursuance of a contract between them and the Commissioner of Indian
Affairs, who wished to know the boundary line between the Choctaw and
Chickasaw country. They located the one hundredth meridian, as before
stated, some 80 miles west of the junction of the two forks, and they designated the Prairie Dog Town branch as the main branch of the Red River.
It appears that this designation was at once questioned by Texas, and,
at the instigation of the Senators of that State, Congress passed an act,
approved June 5, 1858, 11 U. S. Stat. 819, authorizing the President in
conjunction with the State of Texas to run and mark said boundary line.
Commissioners were appointed on the part of the United States and of
Texas, who proceeded to their work in May and June, 1860.
Governor Sam Houston of Texas instructed the commissioner of that
State as follows:
"In the prosecution, then, of the survey you will be guided by Melish's
map, and insist upon the North Fork as the main Rio Roxo or Red River,
and as the true boundary line, as described in the treaty of 1819."
He refers in his letters of instructions to the Marcy survey, and claims
that Marcy was clearly of the opinion that the North Fork was the true Rio
Roxo, or Red River proper, and further claims that said map of Melish's
lays down the 1North Fork as the main prong.
The commissioners were unable to agree, the one 'on the part of the
United States 'claiming that at and across the Red River and to a point
about half way from the North Fork to the Canadian River the line had
been definitely located by Atessrs. Jones and Brown the year before, and
that nothing now remained but to extend the line north to latitude 360
30', its northern extremity. To this the commissioner on the part of Texas
objected, and the latter proceeded south to the North Fork, and placed a
monument thereon on the north bank fifteen feet in diameter and seven
feet high, claiming that as the true southwest corner of Indian Territory,
and repQrted his doings to the gove'rnor of Texas. The commissioner on
the part of the United States seems never to have completed his report.
Texas adopted and acted upon the report of her commissioner as settling the question of boundary, and established the territory in dispute as
a county of that State, naming it Greer, and has assumed jurisdiction over
it; and by an inadvertence, not singular in our legislative history, the United
States by act of Congress approved February 24, 1879, 20 U. S. Stat. 818,
included said county of Greer as a part of Texas in the Northern Judicial
District of that State, not annexing it for judicial purposes, but recognizing it apparently as an integral part of Texas.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

behalf of, the United States, for the same purpose, shall run
and mark the boundary line between the Territories of the
United States and the State of Texas, as follows: Beginning
at a point where a line drawn north from the intersection of
the thirty-second degree of north latitude with the western
bank of the Sabine River crosses Red River, and thence following the course of said river westwardly to the degree of
longitude one hundred west from London, and twenty-three
degrees west from Washington, as said line was laid down
in Melish's map of the United States, published at Philadelphia, improved to the first of January, 1818, and designated
It is manifest, therefore, that some means should be taken to settle this
dispute as soon as possible. Conflicts are arising between the United
States authorities and persons claiming to exercise rights on the disputed
tract under the jurisdiction of the State of Texas; bloodshed and even
death has resulted from this conflict. As long ago as May, 1877, the attention of the Secretary of the Interior was called to the dispute by the War
Department, and the Secretary of the Interior replied to the letter of inquiry under date of May 10, 1877, which letter we add as part of this
report.
On a careful review of the facts in the case - for the question as to which
prong of the river is the true river is really a question of fact - your committee is decidedly of the opinion that the South Fork is the true boundary,
and that therefore the claim of the State of Texas is unwarranted.
So far from Captain Marcy being clearly, of the opinion, as Governor
Houston claimed, that the North Fork is the main branch, his final opinion
was in favor of the South Fork. It is true that in his diary, on the day he
struck the North Fork, he used the language attributed to him, under the
date of May 26, to wit:
"We are now in the immediate vicinity of the Wichita Mountains [a
range of mountains lying east by northeast from the mouth of Otter
Creek, which empties into the North Fork, and where he was encamped].
Red River, which passes directly through the western extremity of the
chain, is different in character at the mouth of Otter Creek from what it is
below the junction of the Ke-che-ah-que-ho-no (the Dog Town Fork)."
But he had been for several days travelling along the north bank of the
Red River west, and struck the North Fork when it, as well as the South
Fork, was swollen with the rains, and both branches he says "were of apparently about equal magnitude," and he naturally spoke of the North Fork
as "Red River." But he continued up the North Fork to its source, which
he located at longitude.1010 55'. Then he took a southwesterly course till he
came to the headwaters of the Prairie Dog Town (or South Fork), which
he located at longitude 103) 71 11 , and from that time he repeatedly speaks

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

in the treaty between the United States and Spain, made
February 22, 1819. § 2. Said joint commission will report
their survey, made in accordance with the foregoing section
of this act, together with all necessary notes, maps and other
papers, in order that in fixing that part of the boundary
between the Territories of the United States and the State
.of Texas the question may be definitely settled as to the true
location of the one hundredth degree of longitude west from
London, and whether the North Fork of Red River, or the
Prairie Dog Fork of said river, is the true Red River designated in the treaty between the United States and Spain
-ofthat branch as the main branch. (See his report, pp. 55, 58, 84, 86, and
.87.) He also entitles his Plate No. 10, which is a picture of the rock and
gorge out of which the headspring of that fork flows, as "Head Ke-che-ah•que-ho-no, or the main branch of the Red River." - It is manifest that, whatever may have been his first impressions, he finally came to the conclusion,
both from its greater length and size, that the South Fork is the main
branch.
A reference to the letter of the Commissioner of the Land Office, hereto
annexed, will show that Messrs. Brown and Jones had no doubt of the
south being the main branch. The reasons they give seem to be conclusive.
The width of the South Fork at the one hundredth meridian is 76 chains and
85 links; that of the North Fork 23 chains. The field-notes of the commissioner on the part of the United States, acting under the act of June 5,
1858, of the date of August 29, 1860, say the channel of the North Fork
is only 25 chains and 44 feet, and that he found "fiowater on the surface,
(i.e.) the river bed, but it is found by digging 2 feet 3 inches below the
surface." While in his field-notes of August 30, he says: "Struck main
Red'River. Main Red River where crossed, 65 chains and 38 feet; channel
of running water, 22 feet 6 inches deep. Plenty of long, large lagoons of
water in the bed besides the running channel."
If the data given in these reports are correct there would seem to be no
doubt of the claim of the United States to the tract in displte, and, therefore, your committee report adversely to the bill referred to it.
But, inasmuch as the claim is disputed, and that with the earnestness
of belief on the part of Texas, and inasmuch as none of the surveys referred to have been made with the privity of the State of Texas, the joint
commission appointed, having failed to act in concert, your committee are
of the opinion that that State should have a hearing in the matter, and
should have an opportunity to coSperate with the United States in settling the facts upon which the question in dispute rests. A substitute is
reported for the appointment of a joint commission, the passage of which
is recommended.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

made February 22, 1819; and in locating said line said commissioners shall be guided by actual surveys and measurements, together with such well established marks, natural
and artificial, as may be found, and such well authenticated
maps as may throw light upon the subject. § 3. Suchi
commissioner or commissioners, on the part of Texas, shall
attempt to 'have said survey, herein provided for by the
joint commission, made and performed between the first day
of July and the first day of October of the year in which said
survey is made, when the ordinary stage of water in each fork
of said :Red River may be observed; and when the main or
principal Red River is ascertained as agreed upon in said
treaty of 1819, and the point is fully designated where the
one hundredth degree of longitude west from London, and
twenty-third degree of longitude west from Washington,
crosses said Red River, the same shall be plainly marked and
defined as a corner in said boundary, and said commissioner
shall establish such other permanent monuments as may be
necessary to mark their work." Gen. Laws, Texas, 1882, p. 5.
In the year 1884 the attention of the Secretary of the Interior was called to the attempted occupation of a part of the
territory in dispute by white settlers, who assumed that it
was a part of the State of Texas. That officer called the
attention of the Secretary of War to the subject, and suggested that as this territory had been included within the
limits of the Indian Territory, and treated as part thereof
for many years, the military should protect the interests of
the United States. President Arthur issued his procla'mati6n,
warning all persons from obtruding upon the lands embraced
within the limits of the Indian Territory. At the request of
the authorities 'of Texas action was suspended to await the
determination of the disputed question of boundary between
that State and the United States.
At the next session of Congress the joint resolutions reported
at the previous session were embodied in the act of January
31, 1885, c. 47. That act provided:
"Whereas the treaty between the United States and Spain,
executed February twenty-second, eighteen hundred and nine-

UNITED STATES v, TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

teen, fixed the boundary line between the two countries west
of the Mississippi River as follows: Beginning on the Gulf of
Mexico at the mouth of the Sabine River, in the sea, and continuing north along the western bank of that river to the
thirty-second degree of latitude; thence by a line due north
to the degree of latitude where it strikes the Rio Roxo of
N'atchitoches or Red River; thence following the course of
the Rio Roxo westward to the one hundredth degree of longitude west from London, and the twenty-third from Washington; thence crossing the said Red River and running
thence by a line due north to .the iver Arkansas; thence following the course of the southern bank of the Arkansas to its
source, in latitude forty-two degrees north; and thence by
that parallel of latitude to the South Sea; the whole being as
laid down in Melish's map of the United States, published at
Philadelphia, improved to the first of January, eighteen hundred and eighteen; and whereas a controversy exists between
the United States- and Texas as to the point where the
one hundredth degree of longitude crosses the Red River, as
described in the treaty; and whereas the point of crossing
has never been ascertained and fixed by any authority competent to bind the United States and Texas; and whereas it
is desirable that a settlement of -this controversy should be
had, to the end that the question of boundary, now in dispute
because of a difference of opinion as to said crossing, may also
be settled; therefore,
"Be it enacted, etc., That the President of the United
States be, and he is hereby, authorized to detail one or more
officers of the army who, in conjunction with such person or
persons as may be appointed by the State of Texas, shall
ascertain and mark the point where tle one hundredth meridian of longitude .crosses Red 'River, in accordance with the
terms of the treaty aforesaid, and the person or persons
appointed by virtue of this act shall make report of his or
their action in the premises to the Secretary of the Interior,
who shall transmit the same to Congress at the next session
thereof after such report may be made, for action by Congress." 23 Stat. 296, 297.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Under the act of Texas of 1882 and the act of Congress of
1885, the two governments appointed commissioners, but they
were unable to agree upon the vital point as to whether the
line which by the treaty was to follow the course of Red
River westward to the 100th meridian went up the North
Fork of Red River until that meridian was reached, or went
westward along the Prairie Dog Town Fork to the point
designated by the survey of Jones and Brown.
On the 30th day of December, 1887, President Cleveland
issued a proclamation asserting that title in, and jurisdiction
over, all the territory lying between the North and South
Forks of the Red River and the 100th meridian, as part of the
Indian Territory, was vested in the United States. That proclamation recites the fact that the commissioners appointed
on the part of the United States, under the act of January
31, 1885, authorizing the appointment of a commission to run
and mark the boundary lines between a portion of the Indian
Territory and the State of Texas, in connection with a similar commission to be appointed by the State of Texas, had, by
their report, determined that the South or Prairie Dog Town
Fork was the true Red River designated in the treaty, the
commissioners appointed on the part of said State refusing
to concur in that report. The President admonished and
warned all persons, whether claiming to act as officers of the
county of Greer, in the State of Texas, or otherwise, against
selling or disposing of or attempting to sell or dispose of any
of said lands, or from exercising or attempting to exercise any
authority over said lands, or purchasing any part of said territory from any person or persons whatsoever.
We have referred, with perhaps more fullness than was
necessary, to the action, legislative and otherwise, of the two
governments after the passage of the act of 1879, for the purpose of showing that, notwithstanding the passage of that
act, the United States continuously asserted its rightful jurisdiction over the territory in dispute as a part of what is commonly called the Indian Territory ; and that, finally, as the
only peaceful method of ending the dispute, Congress passed
the act of 1890, under the authority of which the present suit
was instituted.

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

In addition to what has been stated, we may add that the
governor of Texas, in his message to the legislature of January 10, 1883, enforced the claim of his State by an exhaustive
argument, covering the whole field of controversy, but without intimating that the United States, by the act of 1879
creating the Northern Judicial District of Texas, had admitted
that "Greer County" was rightfully a part of Texas and subject to its jurisdiction. No one can read that message without
perceiving that the author was familiar with every phase of
this question of boundary. It did not occur to him that the
question had been concluded by the act of Congress establishing a judicial district in the State of Texas. If he had so interpreted that act, a reference to it would have been made in
the course of his presentation of the matter on behalf of his
State.
In our judgment the act of Congress of 1879, establishing
the Northern Judicial District in Texas, must be interpreted
as meaning that the territory in dispute was placed in that
district only for such judicial purposes as were competent to
the courts of the United States, holden in that district, and
that Texas can take nothing in the present controversy by
reason of its provisions.
In suppott of the contention that the United States is estopped by its action to claim the territory in dispute, the
answer alleges that "the Executive Department of the government of the United. States has established and maintained
post offices and post roads in said county, has advertised publicly for bids for carrying the United States mails over the
routes in said- county, designating, as defendant is advised,
said post office and post roads as lying in Greer County,
Texas, and not lying in the territory allotted to the Indians."
In the amended bill filed by the United States it is alleged
that, in 1886, after the passage of the act of 1885 providing
for a commissioner to ascertain the line between Texas and
the United States, as established by the treaty of 1819, and
while the commissioners appointed under that act were actually engaged in their duties, certain residents of the disputed
territory, describing themselvesas residents of Greer Couity,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Texas, petitioned the Post Office Department of the United
States for the establishment of post offices respectively at
Mangum and Frazier, in Greer County, Texas; that in that
year the prayers of the petitions were granted; that acting
upon the designation of locality as set forth in such petitions
such post offices were established and designated as in Greer
County, Texas; but "during the same year 1886, and on the
27th day of December in said year, it was discovered by the
authorities of the Post Office Department that said post
offices were located in the territory in dispute; that said
territory was claimed by the United States; that it was designated and outlined on the maps of the General Land Office
and of the Post Office Department as not within the limits
of the State of Texas, but a part of the Indian Territory of
the United States; that thereupon, on the last mentioned day,
in order to correct the error, the designations of those post
offices were changed so as to locate them within the Indian
T-.rritory, and they have been from that date and are still
only known, recognized and described in orders and official
acts of the Post Office Department as located in the Indian
Territory; and that all other post offices established within
that territory since December, 1886, have been established,
recognized and described, and are still so described and recognized, as within the Indian Territory."
It is quite sufficient to say in respect to this point that the
evidence fully sustains the allegations of the amended bill,
and, therefore, the designation, for a short time, of the post
office referred to as being in Greer County in the 8tate of
Texas cannot, under the circumstances, be deemed of. any
weight in our determination of the main issue.
There is another view of the case upon which the State relies, to which much of the argument of counsel was directed.
It is indicated in the following clauses of the answer filed by
the State: "That in accordance with their usual custom the
Spanish conquerors upon taking possession of, Natchitoches
and the territory- lying on or adjacent to 'Rio Roxo,' established and laid out a road or route between Santa F6, in New
Mexico, and Natchitoches, now in the State of Louisiana, for

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

.the uses of commerce between said places, which road or route
traversed the country west and northwest of Natchitoches,
along the south bank of said 'Rio Roxo,' to a point now in
County, Texas, then crossed said stream to its north
bank, and thence along said north bank to the source of what
complainani now styles the ' North Fork of Red River,' and
thence to Santa F4. That this road was for many years frequently travelled by merchants, traders, trappers, explorers
and other persons trading or travelling between said points of
Santa F6 and Natchitoches, and at the date of said 'treaty of
1819, ' Rio Roxo of Natchitoches,' from its mouth to its source,
was well known to the Spaniards, as well as to the Indians
and trappers of that region of country, as the stream now
called Red River, having its source near the source of the
Canadian River, southeast of and near to Santa F4, in the
now Territory of New Mexico; thence running in an eastern
or southeastern direction, receiving in its course at intervals
the waters of the False Wachita River, the Kecheahquehono or
' Prairie Dog Town River,' Pease River, Little and Big Wichita Rivers, and divers other streams, and emptying its waters
into the Mississippi River, above New Orleans, in the State
of Louisiana. At the date of said treaty of 1819 there was
only one ' Rio Roxo of Natchitoches' known to geographers
or to the people who inhabited the locality of the territory
in controversy, and that was the river above described."
In a former part of this opinion we endeavored to show
from early maps and printed publications that, at the date of
the.treaty of 1819, it was believed that the Rio Roxo of
Natchitoches or Red River extended without any break from
its source not far distant from Santa F6, first southeasterly,
then eastwardly, and then southeastwardly to a point near
the Mississippi River. We have here in the answer filed by
the State an admission that such was the fact, its position, as
we have seen, being that the river that connected the country
near Santa F6 with the country bordering on the Mississippi
was what is now called the North Fork of Red River. This
contention, the State insists, is supported by evidence of the
existence of a road or route established in early times between

OCTOBER TERMT,

1895.

Opinion' of the Court.

Natchitoches and Santa F6, and which passed along that
fork.
It is to be observed that this road or trail is not marked
upon what is called the treaty map of 1818, nor upon any
map that preceded it. Looking at the diplomatic correspondence that resulted in the treaty of 1819, and at the map
which was before the negotiators, we find nothing to show
that the existence or non-existence of a road or trail between
Natchitoches and Santa F6 was an important factor in determining the boundary between the United States and Spain.
So far as the record discloses, the negotiators had no knowledge of such a road or trail; and there is no substantial ground
upon which to rest even a conjecture that the line was fixed
with any reference to routes or trails traversed by traders and
trappers. The negotiators had in mind rivers and degrees of
latitude and longitude, and that fact appears on the face of
the treaty. It cannot be known that they were controlled in
any degree by information as to routes across the country
used by traders or explorers.
Looking at maps published after the treaty was made, we
find that a "great Spanish road to Red River" is marked
on the Carey & Lea atlas of 1822. Leaving Santa F6 it extends in a southeasterly and easterly direction on the north
side of the Canadian River to about 101' 30' of west longi-tude, then across that river in a southeasterly direction, crossing the False Wachita east of the one hundredth meridian,
then passing southeastwardly and north of a stream which is
probably the North Fork of Red River, as now known, and
then eastwardly and north of Red River until it reaches and
crosses'Red River just east of the ninety-seventh degree of
longitude. The same road is delineated on the Melish map of
1823 and the Young-Mitchell map of 1835. According to
those maps each of those roads crossed Red River near the
mouth of the Wachita, far east of the junction of the North
Fork with Red River. If this be the trail that extended from
Santa F6 to Natchitoches, or if there 'was a trail which, in
early times, passed along the North Fork of Red River to or
in the direction of Santa F6, (upon which point the evidence

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

is by no means clear,) we should not necessarily conclude that
such trail marked the line established by the treaty, nor that
its existence proved that the river near or along which it
ran was the main branch of Red River. The direction of the
treaty was to follow the course of Red River westward to the
100th meridian. As we have seen, the treaty did not refer to
any road or trail used by traders or trappers, but only to
rivers and degrees of longitude. At the point where the
North Fork empties into Red River there is a river which, to
say the least, is as large as the North Fork, and which extends
-westward. By following the course of that stream to the 100th
meridian the terms of the treaty are fully met, while they
will not be met by departing from a westward course, before
reaching that meridian, and going first in a northerly, then in
an easterly, and then in a northwestwardly direction up the
North Fork. The location of the line established by the
treaty should be determined by the course of rivers and degrees of latitude and longitude, rather than by routes, trails
or roads, the extent and character of which cannot be certainly known at this day, and over which, at the date of the
treaty and prior thereto, travel by traders and trappers could
have been only occasional and limited.
There are other matters to which, in view of the large
amount of evidence relating to them, we must advert. Many
witnesses were examined upon the question whether the
Prairie Dog Town Fork or the North Fork Was the longer
river, which the broader and deeper stream, and which
drained the most territory. The State insists, in this case,
that if regard be had to width and depth of stream and extent of country drained, the North Fork must have been
deemed, in early times, or when the treaty of* 1819 was
made, the more important of the two forks of Red River, and,
therefore, that that fork should be held to be the river whose
course, going from the east, was required by the treaty to be
followed westward until the 100th meridian was reached.
These questions were considered by the Boundary Commission appointed after the passage of the *act of Congress of
January 31, 1885, c. 47. The commissioners on behalf of the
VOL. CLX11-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

United States and Texas united in declaring that "in finding
the point where the 100th meridian of west longitude crosses
Red River, if it should appear that said meridian crosses Red
River west of the confluence of what are now known as the
North Fork and Prairie Dog Town Fork, then the true boundary should be taken at that one of those streams which best
satisfies the provisions of the treaty of 1819." They concurred in holding that of those two streams the Prairie Dog
Town Fork was the longer. The commissioners on behalf of
the United States voted that the Prairie Dog Town Fork was
the wider stream. In this view the Texas commissioners concurred, with the qualification'that that stream was the "wider
between the banks, but not in ordinary flow of water." The
United States commissioners held that the Prairie Dog Town
Fork drained a larger area than the North Fork. In this
view the Texas commissioners concurred, with the qualification that "there is little or no rainfall on the sources of the
stream, and hence is taken out of the usual rule of estimating
the size of rivers, while the North Fork rises in the mountains, where it rains more, and its sources are living streams."
House Ex. Doc. No. 21, 50th Cong. 1st Sess. pp. 165 to 168.
Touching these matters, the evidence in the present case is
very voluminous. Many witnesses, who had apparently equal
opportunities of observation, express opinions that are directly
conflicting. Governor Roberts, in his message of January 10,
1883, after referring to the disputed question as to which of
these two rivers was the main branch of the Red River, said:
"1 have shown how nearly equal are the claims of each to be
called the main branch from facts pertaining to them derived
from observation. From this, either one of them, in the absence of the other, would be taken to be- the main branch.
It may be admitted that the South Fork [Prairie Dog Town
Fork] is the larger and longer, and, therefore, the main branch
in reference to the two nearly equal branches of Red River,
but that admission does not settle the fact that the line must
run up that branch." The true question, he said, was " which
one of the two nearly equal branches corresponds most nearly
with the 'Red River of Natchitoches or Red River,' as it was

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

known in 1819, when the treaty was made, and as 'laid down
in Melish's map of the United States, published at Philadelphia, improved to the first of January, 1818.' "
We have found that the 100th meridian mentioned in the
treaty must, especially since the Compromise Act of 1850, be
taken to be the 100th meridian astronomically located. And
we are now further considering whether the two governments
intended the line, running from the east to the west, should
leave Red River at the .mouth of what is now known as the
North Fork, and go northwardly and northwestwardly up that
fork, or should go westwardly up what is now known as the
Prairie Dog Town or South Fork. So far as this question
depends upon evidence as to the relative width and length of
these two rivers, and the extent of country drained by each,
we are of opinion that, although a large number of witnesses
sustain the position taken by the State, the Prairie Dog Town
or South Fork, according to the decided weight of evidence,
is wider and longer, and drains a much greater extent of territory than the North Fork. This is the conclusion reached by
the court after a careful and patient scrutiny of all the proof.
So that the evidence of living witnesses corroborates that furnished by maps, and sustains the position taken by the United
States as to the scope and effect of the words in the treaty
of 1819, "following the course of the Rio Roxo westward to
the degree of longitude 100 west from London and 23 from
Washington."
But suppose the evidence left it in doubt as to which was
the wider and longer stream, and which of the two drains the
largest extent of territory; and let it be assumed, as suggested
by Governor Roberts, that upon the facts, derived from observation, the claims of each river to be the main branch of the
Red River mentioned in the treaty are nearly equal; what,
in such a contingency, is our duty? It is to as6ertain which
river more nearly meets the requirement that the line from
the east to the west must follow "the course of the Rio Roxo
westward to the degree of longitude -100 west from London."
If, in following the course of Red River westward it be. found
that that river forks before the 100th meridian of longitude

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

is reached-one of the forks coming from the north and
would seem to be
northwest, and the other from the west -it
our duty to hold that the river coming from a westward direction was the one whose course the treaty directed to be followed.
Those who insist that the course should be north and northwestwardly for any material distance from the main river to
the 100th meridian, are under an obligation to sustain that
position by such evidence as would justify the court in departing from the plain direction of the treaty to follow the Red
River "westward" to the named meridian. But that has not
been done.
Much stress has been laid by the State upon the testimony
of the late General Marcy given before the Boundary Commission of 1886. In the year 1852 that officer, being then a
captain in the United States Army, was directed by General
Scott to make an examination of the Red River and the country bordering upon it from the mouth of Cache Creek to its
source. During his explorations he camped, on the 30th of
May, 1852, at a certain point on Red River, and in his daily
journal of his movements said: "Red River at this place is a
broad, shallow stream, six hundred and fifty yards wide, running over a bed of sand. Its course is nearly due west to the
forks, and thence the course 'of the south branch is W. N. W.
for eight miles, when it turns to nearly N. W. The two
branches are apparently of about equal magnitude, and between them, at the confluence, is a very high bluff, which can
be seen for a long distance around." Senate Ex. Doe. No. 54,
32d Cong. 2d Sess. p. 20. We take it that, in his reference to
the forks of Red River, he had in mind the Prairie Dog Town
Fork and the North Fork.
Thirty-two years later, that is, in 1886, Captain, then General, Marcy appeared as a witness before the Boundary Commission. He referred to his report of 1852, and said: "As
the time that has elapsed since I made that exploration (thirtythree years) is so great, many of the facts and events connected therewith have passed from my memory; but some
matters relative to the objects for which this commission was
convened, as I understand, may not be found in the report.

UNITED STATES v.. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

I have this morning, for the first time, seen a copy of that
portion of Melish's map of the United States, embracing the
part of the Red River country which the commission has
under consideration at this time, which is authenticated by
the signature of the Secretary of State of the United States.
Upon this map only one large fork of Red River is delineated,
with one more northerly small affluent, which is not named,
but -may have been intended for Washita River or Cache
Creek." House Ex. Doc. No. 21, p. 59.
That the full force of General Marcy's statements may appear we here give so much of his deposition as is embodied
in the brief filed by counsel for the State:
"I regarded the Prairie Dog Town branch as the main Red
River, for the reason that its bed was much wider than that
of the North Fork, although the water only covered a- small
portion of its bed, and as the sandy earth absorbed a good
deal of water after it debouched from the cafion through
which it flows, it may not contribute any more water to the
lower river than the North Fork. The Prairie Dog Town
branch and the North Fork of Red River, from their confluence to their sources, are of about equal length -the former being 180 miles and the latter 170 miles in length. For
reasons which I will presently state, I have been unable to
resist the force of my own convictions, that the branch of
Red River that I called the North -Fork of that stream was
what is designated upon Melish's map as Rio Roxo. I doubt
if the Prairie Dog Town River was ever known to civilized
men prior to my exploration in 1852; and, if it was ever
mapped before then, I am not aware 'of it. The character
of the country through which this stream flows is such that
travellers would not have been likely to Pass over it when
there was a much more favorable route north of the North
Fork. The water in the Prairie Dog Town branch, from its
confluence with the North Fork to within two miles of its
bead spring (about 100 miles), I found so bitter and unpalatable that many of the men became sick from drinking it. But
one pool of fresh water was found throughout the entire distance, and the Indians told me they never went up this stream

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

with their families if it could be avoided, for the reason that
the nauseous water frequently proved fatal to their children.
Hence, it is not surprising that but little, if anything, should
have been known of this repulsive region before my exploration in 1852. And this probably accounts for the entire absence of most of its southern branches upon Melish's map. It
is very certain that the ' Prairie Dog Town River' was never
delineated by any Spanish, French or English name, as were
most of the other streams in that country, and it was only
known to the Indians, and possibly to somd Mexican traders,
as 'Kecheahquehono,' a Comanche appellation, the signification of which the Delawares informed me was 'Prairie Dog
As before stated, owing to the absence
Town River.'
of good water, the sandy character of the soil along the river,
and the formidable obstruction presented by the elevated and
staked plain, and the extensive belt of gypsum crossing this
route, the Mexicans would never have attempted to traverse
it with their carts in their trading expeditions from Santa F6
to Natchitoches, especially when there was so good a route a
little further north, possessing all the requirements for prairie
travelling. The Rio Roxo upon Melish's map is almost entirely south and west of the Wichita Mountains, but in closeproximity to them - which is in accord with my determination of the position of the North Fork, while there are no
mountains upon the Prairie Dog Town branch. The head of
the Rio Roxo upon Melish's map is put down as in about latitude 370, while upon my map the true latitude is 35y °, while
the Prairie Dog Town River rises in about thirty-four and
one-half degrees; so that, if his Rio Roxo was intended to
represent the ' Prairie Dog Town River,' it would be two and
one-half degrees of latitude too far north." House Ex. Doc.
No. 21, pp. 59, 60.
It thus appears -that at the time (1852) General Marcy made
his exploration of the Red River country he regarded the
Prairie Dog Town River as the main.Red River, and his conclusion then formed by actual observation was in harmony
with the maps that had been previously given to the public.
After many of the facts connected with the subject had, as he
.

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

frankly admitted, passed from his memory, he expressed the
opinion that the river that he had, called the North Fork of
Red River was what was designated on Melish's map of 1818
as Rio Roxo. However persuasive his reasons, for that conclusion might be regarded, if the facts then stated by him were
alone taken into consideration, they do not satisfy us that he
was in error when; the facts being fresh in his mind, he expressed the opiniori, from personal examination on the ground,
that Prairie Dog Town Fork was the main Red River. One
of the reasons assigned, in support of his last view of this question, is that Prairie Dog Town River was never delineated upon
any map of this country or of Europe prior to his exploration, and that it was only known to the Indians, and possibly
to some Mexican traders, as the Kecheahquehono, which means
Prairie Dog Town River. Now it is quite true that no map,
prior to 1852, marked any river as PrairieDog Town River,
or as the Kecheahquehono. But it is shown, beyond all question, that on all the maps above referred to which appeared
after 1819 and down to the time when General -Marcytestified
before the Boundary Commission, a river was marked whose
course (going from east to. west) is substantially westward
from the point where the line from the, Sabine River meets
the 32d degree of latitude to the 100th meridian. and that the
line, thus delineated, extending to and westwardly beyond the
true 100th meridian, is the southern boundary of the Indian
Territory, as that boundary is claimed by the United States.
Between the mouth of the North Fork and the initial monument established by the government in 1856, there is a river
whose course is substantially east and west. That river is
marked on Long's map of 1822 and the Melish map of 1823,
west of the 100th meridian, as "Rio Roxo or Red River;" on
Finley's map of 1826 as "R. Roxo or Red R. ;"on the YoungMitchell map of 1835, and Mfaillard's map of 1841 as" Rio Roxo
or Red River of Louisiana;" and on Mitchell's map of 1851
as "-Red River." On all the other maps the same river is
plainly delineated., That the name of Prairie Dog Town Fork
does not appear on maps published prior to 1852, or that that
name was not known to civilized people until after the explora-

OCTOBE.R TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court

tions made by Captain Marcy, is not therefore a circumstance
of serious moment, certainly not conclusive. The river itself,
though unnamed on any map prior to 1852, was in fact delineated on maps for more than a quarter of a century before
that officer entered the Red River country with his company.
The character of the country through which the Prairie Dog
Town River flowed and the bad quality of its water for drinking purposes, are also referred to by General Marcy as reasons
why the North Fork should be regarded as the stream whose
course was intefided to be followed in establishing the boundary. We do not think that the evidence upon this point is
entitled to very great weight. There is no reason to suppose
that the negotiators of the treaty had any knowledge or information as to the relative qualities for drinking purposes of the
waters of the two streams in question; and if they had, it is
difficult to perceive why such facts would control the determination of a disputed question of boundary between two
nations. The, negotiators knew or believed that there was a
Red River, whose source was not far from Sante F4,and which,
in its course, passed Natchitoches. Their purpose was to establish a line which would extend from the point where the line
due north from Sabine River met Red River, thence along and
up Red River" westward "to the 100th meridian of longitude,
then due north'to the Arkansas River. The reference in the
treaty was to rivers and degrees of longitude and latitude. It
was a question of territory without regard to a special trail,
the location of which might have been affected by the quality
of the waters of any particular stream.
Much significance is attached by the State to the fact that
as early as 1860, by legislItive enactment, it created the county
of Greer with boundaries that include the whole of the territory in dispute, and that it has ever since asserted its jurisdiction. over both that territory and the people who inhabit it.
However important such facts might under some circumstances
be deemed, it must be remembered that during the whole of
the period referred to the constituted authorities of Texas have
been aware that the United States regarded the territory in
dispute as under its exclusive jurisdiction and as a part of what

UNITED STATES v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

is known as the Indian Territory. The government has
always disputed the, claim of Texas. The only qualification
of this broad statement is that suggested by the language
inadvertently used in the act of Congress creating the Northern Judicial District of Texas. But that language, we have
held, was not intended to express the purpose of the United
States to surrender its jurisdiction over. the territory in
dispute.
It is also said that many titles to land in the disputed territory are held under the State and that much confusion may
follow, and injustice be done to individuals, if the claim of
the United States be sustained. On the other band, it is to
be inferred that there are many settlers in the disputed territory who assert title to land under the United States. It
appears in evidence that in 1873 and 1874 a part of that territory was sectionized under the authority of the General Government. We suppose that Goverflor Roberts referred to that
fact when, in his message of 18S3, he said that "the authorities of the United States had -established an initial corner on
the South Fork of Red River, on the line claimed to be the
100th degree of longitude, had sectionized the country east of
that line, and protected it from settlement of white people as
a part of the Indian Territory." He further said: "Application was made to me to know if I would sign the patents,
if certificates were located and surveyed in Greer County.
Under the then existing circumstances I felt it to be my duty
to discourage such locations, as they might be to our prejudice
in the settlement of our claim with the United States, when
the merits of it could be more fully, ascertained." But whatever may be the facts bearing upon this point, our duty is to
determine the present issues according to the settled principles
of law, without reference to considerations of inconvenience
to individuals residing in the disputed territory. We cannot
doubt that the Corigress of the'United States will do all that
justice requires to be done in order to avoid any injury to
individuals that oucght nbt to be. inflicted upon them:
It is further said that the State, since it assumed to create
Greer County, has expended a large amount of money in pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

viding a public school system for the inhabitants of that
locality. To what extent moneys have been so expended is
not clearly shown. Whatever may be the facts, touching this
point, we do not feel at liberty to give weight to them in
this case. The question before us, we repeat, is one of law,
and must be determined according to law. What may be
fairly and justly demanded by the State, on account of moneys
expended for the benefit of the inhabitants of the disputed
territory, is a matter for the consideration of the legislative
branch of the National Government.
In the argument it was suggested that this court ought not
to forget how much was added to the power and wealth of
this nation when Texas, with its imperial domain, came into
the Union, and her people became a part. of the political community for whom the Constitution of the United States was
ordained and established. This fact cannot, of course, be
forgotten by any American who takes pride in the prestige
and greatness of the Republic. But the considerations which.
it suggests cannot affect the decision of legal questions, and
must be addressed to another branch of the Government.
The supposition is not to be indulged that that department
of the Government will fail to recognize any duty imposed
upon it by the circumstances arising out of this vexed controversy.
For the reasons stated the United States is entitled to the
relief asked. And this court now renders the following
decree:
This cause having been submitted uyon the pleadings,prof.§
and exhibits, and the -ourt being fully advised, it is ordered, adjudged and decreed that the territory east of the
lOOth meridian of longitude, west and south of the river
now known, as the Y6,rth Fork of Red River, and north
of a -linefollowing westward, as prescribed by the treaty
of 1819 between the United States and Spain, the course,
and along the south bank, both qf Red River and of the
river now known as the Prairie Dog Town Fork or
South Fork of Red River until such line meets the 100th
meridian of longittde -which
territory is sometimes

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CALIFORNIA.

91

Syllabus.

called G'reer County - constitutes no part of the territory
properly included within or rigAtfully belonging to Texas
at the time of the admission of thit State into the Union,
and is not within the limits nor under the jurisdictionof
that State, but is subject to the eeclusive jurisdiction of the
United States of America. Each party will pay its own
costs.

M1R. JUSTICE PECKHAM, not having been a member of the
court when this case was argued, took no part in tht decision.

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v. CALIFORNIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 559. Argued January 15, 16, 1896. -Decided

March 16, 1896.

The Central Pacific Railroad Company, being required by the laws of California to make returns of its property to the Board of Equalization for
purposes of taxation, made a verified statement in which, among other
things, it was said: "The value of the franchise and .entire roadway,
roadbed, and rails within this State is $12,273,785." The Board of
Equalization determined that the actual value of the franchises, roadway, 'roadbed, rails, and rolling stock of the company within the State
at that time was $18,000,000. The company not having paid the taxes
assessed on this valuation, this action was brought by the State to
recover them. Held,
'(1) That the presumption was that the franchise included by the company in its return -was a franchise which was. not exem pt under
the laws of the United States, and that the board had acted upon,
property within its jurisdiction;
(2) That if the Board of Equalization had included what it hrid no authority to assess, the company might seek the remedies given
under the law, to correct the assessment so far as such property
was concerned, or recover back the tax thereon, or, if those remedies were not held exclusive, might defend against the attempt
to enforce it;
(3) Where the property mentioned in the description could-be assessed,
and the assessment followed the return, the company ought to be

