OCTOBER TERM, 1895
Statement of the Case.

NORTHERN

PACIFIC RAILROAD
LEWIS.

COMPANY

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH

v.

CIR-

CUIT.
No. 166. Argued March 24, 1896.--Decided April 13, 1896.

A person who, without authority, cuts wood from public lands of the
United States, not mineral, or purchases such wood so cut, and leaves it,
when cut or purchased, upon such public lands near a railroad, has no right
of possession of, or title to, or ownership in it, and cannot maintain an
action against the corporation owning such railroad for its destruction
by fire caused by sparks from locomotives of the company.

THIS action was brought by the defendants in error against

the railroad company to recover damages for the destruction
of some 10,000 cords of wood by fire communicated to the
wood by sparks from the engines of the company.
It was alleged in the amended complaint that the railroad
-company neglected and failed, for a long time prior to the
happening of the fire, and while using and operating their
railroad, to keep each side of the railroad track free from
dead grass, weeds, brush and other dangerous and combustible
material, as by law they were required to do, and that the
company used locomotives which threw from their smokestacks large amounts of live cinders and sparks, and that the
'company carelessly and negligently operated and used its road,
and by reason thereof, and on the 5th day of August, 1890,
in Jefferson County, Montana, set fire to the grass, weeds and
other combustible and dangerous material, which the defendant had negligently and carelessly allowed to remain by the
side of the track, and the fire spread rapidly and consumed
and destroyed the cord wood belonging to the plaintiffs, as
partners, then being in Jefferson County, Montana, and along
and near the railroad track, of the amount of 9400 cords, and
-of the value of $25,350.
The defendant by its answer denied all negligence, and
denied "that on or about the date aforesaid, or on any other

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. LEWIS.
Statement of the Case.

day or date, the defendant set any fire which, consumed or de.stroyed any cord wood belonging to the plaintiffs or any or
either of them." The defendant also put in issue the value
of the cord wood, and alleged that whatever was lost was lost
through the contributory negligence of the plaintiffs.
The case came on for trial at the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Ninth Circuit, for the District of Montana, held
in December, 1891, and January, 1892, and resulted in a verdict for the plaintiffs for the sum of $21,487.83. The company
sued out a writ of error from the United States Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, and that court affirmed the
judgment. 7 U. S. App. 254. The company then sued out a
writ of error from this court.
Upon the trial of the action the plaintiffs to maintain the
issues on their part introduced evidence tending to show that
in the month of April, in the year 1889, they entered upon a
portion of the unsurveyed public domain of the United States,
lying on the easterly slope of the Rocky Mountains, in the
.county of Jefferson, State of Montana, and there chopped and
caused to be chopped about 10,000 cords of wood from the
timber then standing and growing upon such. public lands;
that the wood was cut over an area of country of about three
miles, north and south, and about two by two and a half miles,
east and west; that the wood so cut was white pine, and much
of it was made of trees of less diameter than eight inches.
'The plaintiffs also gave evidence that they were citizens of
the United States, and that the plaintiff, George .S. Lewis, at
the date of the cutting of said wood, was. a resident of Butte,
Montana, and that the other plaintiffs resided at White Sulphur
Springs in the State of Montana. It was further shown that
after the wood was cut it was drawn to a point near the railroad and there piled. That the place where the wood was so
piled was on the unsurveyed public lands of the United States
and about 200 yards south of the railroad operated by the
defendant.
Plaintiffs also gave .evidence tending to show that they had
purchased from various parties during the summer of 1890
about 5000 cords of white pine cord wood, which had also

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

been cut on the public unsurveyed lands of the United States,
some of it on the tract of country from which plaintiffs had
cut, and the remainder was cut on the north side of the railroad track above mentioned, and over a strip or area of country
about two miles in length. Further evidence was given on
the part of plaintiffs tending to show negligence on the part
of the defendant either in the construction or in the management of its engines, and tending to show that the fire which
destroyed the wood in question was, communicated to it as
alleged in the amended complaint.
Evidence was given on the part of the defendant tending to
show that it was not guilty of any negligence in the premises,
and that it was not liable for the results of any fire which may
have destroyed the wood in question.
At the conclusion of all the evidence, the defendant moved
the court to instruct the jury to return a verdict for it upon
the grounds:
" 1. That the title or bwnership of the wood is directly in
issue, and the testimony does not show that the plaintiffs had
either a general or special property -in the said cord wood or
any thereof.
"2. The testimony shows that at the time said cord wood
was destroyed the same was the property of the United States,
and that in and about the cutting and removal thereof from
the public unsurveyed lands of the United States the said
plaintiffs were trespassers and wrongdoers.
" 3. The testimony does not show that the lands whereon
the cord wood was cut were distinctly mineral in character, or
were more valuable for the mineral therein contained than
for agricultural purposes or for the timber growing thereon.
"4. The testimony does not show that such cord wood was
cut under the license granted by the act of Congress of June
3, 1878, or in compliance with the rules and regulations established thereunder by the Secretary of the Interior, but, on
the contrary, the evidence clearly shows that the said cord
wood, and the whole thereof, was cut in utter disregard of
said act of Congress and the said rules and regulations of the
Secretary of the Interior.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD. v. LEWIS.

369

Statement of the Case.,

"5. Because the testimony shows that .said cord wood was
the property of the United States, and that plaintiffs have
neither right nor title thereto nor the possession thereof."
Other grounds were stated not material to be now considered.
The court denied the motion and refused to so instruct the
jury, and the defendant duly excepted.
The defendant then amiong other requests asked the court
to charge the jury that "it being shown conclusively by the
testimony in this case that plaintiffs cut said cord wood on
lands belonging to the United States; that such cord wood was
so cut without license or authority of the.United States, and
was not removed from such lands at the date it was consumed,
the plaintiffs did not have either the actual or constructive
possession of such wood at the date of its destruction, and are
therefore not entitled to recover." This request was refused,
and defendant duly excepted.
The court was further asked to charge that: "If you
should find from the testimony that plaintiffs purchased some
of this wood from other lParties who had cut it from trees
growing in that vicinity, this will make no difference so far
as their right to, or ownership of, such wood is concerned.
The region of country where this cutting was done being public unsurveyed -lands of the United States, the plaintiffs were
bound at their peril to take notice of the fact that the timber
growing thereon was the property of the United States, and
could only lawfully be severed therefrom under the provisions
of the act of Congress of June 3, 1878, and in compliance with
the rules and regulations established thereunder. In order to
pro e their title to so much of the wood as was purchased, it
is not enough to show that they bought it of a certain named
person, but plaintiffs must go further and show that the
person had acquired title to it by compliance with the act of
Congress and rules and regulations prescribed by the Secretary
of the Interior. If the person cutting such wood was himself
a trespasser, .he acquired no title to the wood cut, and could
convey none to plaintiffs.. The rightful owner of such wood
could follow it and reclaim it, no matter where, or. in whose
possession it might be found, so long as he could identify it."
vOL. CLXII-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Defendants in Error

This request the court refused, and the defendant duly excepted to such refusal.
Among many other assignments of error made by the defendant is the following: "The court also erred in refusing
to give the instruction requested by the defendant in the following words, to wit: ' It being shown conclusively by the
testimony in this case that plaintiffs cut said cord wood on
lands belonging to the United States, that such cord wood
was so cut without license or authority of the United States,
and was not removed from such lands at the date when it was
consumed, the plaintiffs did not have either the actual or constructive possession of such wood at the date of its destruction, and are, therefore, not entitled to recover.'"
Mr. William J. Curtis for plaintiff in error.
Mr'. Thomas C. Back, (with whom was _Mr. William Wallace, Jr., on the brief,) for defendants in error.
I. Plaintiffs can maintain this action. The action is one
of trespass -or trespass on the case. It was brought against
a wrongdoer for its negligent destruction of the cord wood.
Plaintiffs were in possession of the property when it was so
destroyed, and the defendant did not seek to connect itself
with the title. Under such a state of facts, the plaintiffs, by
proof of their possession, also proved their title against the
wrongdoing defendant. While in replevin and ejectment the
rule is different, it is because right to possession is involved;
and plaintiff in such cases must recover on the strength of his
own title. 1ambert v. Stroother,Willes, 218; Graham v. Peat,
1 East, 244; Jissam v. Roberts, 6 Bosworth, (N. Y. Super.,)
154; Hoyt v. Gelaton, 13 Johns. 141; Cook v. Howard, 13
Johns. 276; Aikin v. Buck, 1 Wend. 466; Demick v. Chapman,
11 Johns. 132; Squire v. iollenbeck, 9 Pick. 551; Hammer
v. Wilsey, 17 Wend. 91; Parker v. Iotchkiss, 25 Connecticut, 321 ; Todd v. Jackson, 2 Dutcher, N. J. 525 ; Whittingtorn
v. Boxall, 5 Q. B. 139; Wustland v. Potteield,9 W. Va. 438;
Craig v. Gilbreth, 47 Maine, 416; Gilson v. Wood, 20 Illinois,
37; Gardiner v. Thibodeau, 14 La. Ann. 732; Boston v. HYeat,

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. LEWIS.

371

Argument for Defendants in Error.

12 Missouri, 125; Crawford v. Bynum, 7 Yerg. 381; Fuller
v. Bean, 30 N. H. 181; Kemp v. Seely, 47 Wisconsin, 687.
In the latter case, Orton, Judge, says: "There was no question of title in the case, nor is title necessary to maintain trespass against a stranger to the title."
The rule is the same in trover. "But a lower degree of interest will sometimes suffice against a stranger,, for a mere
wrongdoer is not permitted to question the title of a person in
the actual possession and custody of the goods whose possession he has wrongfully invaded." Greenleaf on Ev..§ 639.
See also to same effect, as to action of trover: Ward v.
Carson R. Wood & Co., 13 Nevada, 44; Jefrie8 v. Great
Western Railway Co., 34 Eng. L. and Eq. 122; Bartlettv. Hoyt,
29 N. H. 317; Burke v. Savage, 13 Allen., 408; Shaw v. Kaler,
106 Mass. 448; FirstParishin Shrewsbury v. Smith, 14 Pick.
297, 302 ; Sutton v. Buck, 2 Taunt. 302; .Duncan v. Spear, 11
Wend. 54, 57; Wincher v. Shrewsbury, 2 Scammon (Ill.) 283.
Were right of recovery denied the possessor for injury to his
possession, the law of "might" alone would be applicable to
personal property after it had tortiously passed out of the hands
of the true owner. If ores extracted by the miner from a claim
defectively located, or not located at all, were seized by a stranger, -the miner would be remediless save by an appeal to force.
The railroad could receive our wood, collect freight in advance,
haul it to market, and then refuse to deliver it upon the plea
that it would be answerable to the United States.
In Pari§A v. Smith, 14 Pick. 302, Chief Justice Shaw says:
"It is very clear that a mere stranger cannot question the
right of one in possession, or put him on the proof or disclosure of his title. . . . And there seems to be no reason why
a stranger should be placed in a better situation, by taking the
matter into his own hands, ploughing lahd- taking crops or
otherwise interfering with the right of the party in possession.
If a lawful owner, in whom the legal title remains,
chooses to interfere and set up his legal claims, the law, in
consistency with its own rules in regard to the transmission of
title, may be compelled to admit his claim. But if such owner,
upon consideration of propriety, equity and conscience, chooses

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

to acquiesce and permit the party in possession to retain that
possession, notwithstanding any defect o[ title, by what rule
of law, of equity or sound policy, can a mere stranger be
.allowed to interfere and by his own act violate the actual and
peaceable possession of another, and' thereby compel him to
disclose a title, in the validity or invalidity of which such
stranger has no interest ?"
See also Gulf, 0.& S. P..Railway v. Johnson, 54 Fed. Rep.
474, a case which involves the same kind of trespass, the same
question of ownership, the same question of illegality, as found
in this case.
MR.JUSTIcE PECKHAm, after stating the facts, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The cases cited by the defendants in error show the doctrine to be quite clearly established that an action of trespass
de bonis asportatis does iiot technically involve the question of
title. It relates to the possession only of personal property,
and it is brought to recover for -the injury to that possession.
In such action it is held that an allegation of the ownership of
the property is not material and that it need not be made, or
if made that it need not be proved. Proof of possession simply
is sufficient upon the theory that possession isprinafacie evidence of some kind of rightful ownership or title. Therefore,
it is held that proof of title to property in a stranger with
whom the defendant does not connect himself in any way is no
defence to the action as the injury is to the possession. Trespass de bonis asportatisassumes a taking of the property by the
defendant out of the possession of the plaintiff, and if the title
be in a stranger with which the defendant does not connect
himself, that fact is no answer to the cause of action. The
possession of the plaintiff is enough under such circumstances
against a wrongdoer. If the defendant cannot connect himself with the title in the third person, he is as to the plaintiff a
w-rongdoer, having no right to disturb the possession of the
plaintiff. Ailein v. Buck, 1 Wend. 466; Hammer v. lVilsey,
17 Wend 91; Kissam-v. Robeets, 6 Bosworth, [Superior Court

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. LEWIS.

373

Opinion of the Court.

N. Y.,] 154:. Many other cases are to the same effect. The
rule is said to be different in trover and replevin on the theory
that those actions are not actions grounded on the mere possession, but founded upon a right or title in the plaintiff upon
the strength of which he must recover, and that-hence title in
a third party may be a defence, even though the defendant is
not in any way connected with it.
But this action is not an action of trespass de bonis asportatis.
There has been no asportation, and that fact must be lroved,
in such an action. The cause of action here alleged and
proved was a negligent act on the part of the defendant,
committed on the defendant's own land, and causing in its
results the burning up and destruction of the wood in question. The action is, therefore, more accurately and properly
described as an action of trespass on the case instead of trespass de bonis asportati8.
The ground of the plaintiffs' right of action is the damage
which has been caused them by the negligent act of the defendant, and unless they are able to prove some damage, consequent upon such negligent act, the plaintiffs are not entitled
to recover. This is not ail action where they would be entitled to nominal damages if no damages whatever were in
fact sustained or proyed. They must prove the nature and
extent of the damage, and if the property destroyed were not
-owned by them, and if they had no special property therein,
.and did not have possession thereof, it is entirely plain that
no cause of action was proved. The plaintiffs claim that, so
far as the defendant is concerned, they did prove property in
the wood, and that such proof was made by showing that they
were in possession thereof at the time of its destruction, and
as simple possession isprimafacieevidence of right and title
.sufficient to support this action, the plaintiffs made out their
case. It may be assumed that possession alone is sufficient,
even in an action of this nature, in the absence of any evidence
explaining that possession or showing -that plaintiffs had no
title to the property. In this case the plaintiffs, in the course
of making out their cause of action, showed, the, facts 'which
proved that they had neither the title nor the possession.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

The bill of exceptions states that the wood was cut upon
the unsurveyed public lands of the United States. The lands
were owned by the United States, and the trees growing
thereon were its absolute property as much so as any other
article of property possessed by the government. Entering
upon those lands by the plaintiffs for the purpose of cutting
trees was a plain act of trespass, illegal in its nature, and
unjustified by any fact appearing in this case. The plaintiffs in cutting down trees committed an illegal act, and while
the title to the standing timber was in the United States, the
plaintiffs by severing the trees from the freehold acquired no
right, title or interest in them by reason of such severance.
In Schulenberg v. 1harriman,21 Wall. 44, 64, it was held,
that where title to land upon which the lumber was cut was
in the State, severing the timber from the realty did not
change the title. Its character was changed from realty to
personalty, but its title was not affected. It continued as
previously the property of the owner of the land and could be
pursued wherever it was carried. All the remedies were open
to the owner which the law afforded in other cases of the
wrongful removal or conversion of personal property. See
also Turley v. Tucker, 6 Missouri, 583. It is plain, therefore,
that the plaintiffs obtained no right or title to the trees by
cutting them on the lands owned by the United States under
circumstances such as are set forth in this bill of exceptions.
It is urged, however, that under the act of June 3, 1878, c.
150, 20 Stat. 88, (1 Supp. Rev. Stat. 1874--1881, 327,) where no
evidence is given upon the subject, the presumption is that the
plaintiffs had complied with the provisions of that act, and
that the cutting was therefore legal, and the timber was their
own property.
The first section of that act reads as follows:
"S1Ec. 1. Be it enacted, etc., That all citizens of the United
States and other persons, bona fide residents of the State of
Colorado or Nevada, or either of the Territories of New
Mexico, Arizona, Utah, Wyoming, Dakota, Idaho or Montana,
and all other mineral districts of the United States, shall be,
and are hereby, authorized and permitted to fell and remove,

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. LEWIS.

375

Opinion of the Court.

for building, agricultural, mining or other domestic purposes,
any timber or other trees growing or being on the public
lands, said lands being mineral and not subject to entry under
the existing laws of the United States, except for mineral
entry, in either of said States, Territories or districts of which
such citizens or persons may be at the time bonaide residents,
subject to such rules and regulations as the Secretary of the
Interior may prescribe for the protection of the timber and
of the undergrowth growing upon such lands, and for other
purposes: Provided, The provisions of this act shall not extend
to railroad corporations."
- The third section of that act reads as follows:
"SEc. 3. Any person or persons who shall violate the provisions of this act, or any. rules or regulations in pursuance
thereof made by the Secretary of the Interior, shall be deenied"
guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, shall be fined'
in any sum not exceeding five hundred dollars, and to which
may be added imprisonment for any term not exceeding six
months."
There was no evidence tending to show that the lands
where the wood was cut were mineral, or that in -cutting,
handling or removing the wood the plaintiffs had complied
or attempted to comply with the provisions of the above act
or with the rules or regulations prescribed by the Secretary
of the Interior.
The plaintiffs claim that in the absence of any evidence
to the contrary, the presumption is that when they cut the.
timber they complied with and. came under the conditions
provided for in the above cited act, and that the burden rested
upon the defendant to show that the conditions mentioned in
the act had not been complied with by them. If the plaintiffs
are right in this contention, then it must be presumed that
the cutting of the timber was lawful and the plaintiffs thereby
acquired title to it. If, however, they. ate in error in their
.claim, then it appears that the timber never belonged to them,
and that fact would have a most material bearing upon the
question whether they had, in fact or in law, any possession
of the timber at the time of its destruction.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

The absolute ownership of these lands being at the time in
the United States, it had as owner the same right and dominion over them as any owner would have. No one had the
right to enter upon the lands; no one had the right to cut a
stick of timber thereon without its consent. Any one so going
upon the lands and cutting timber would be guilty of the commission of an act of trespass. The government, however,
chose to make some exceptions in favor of certain classes of
people to whom were given tile right to cut timber for certain
purposes: 1st. They were to be citizens of the United States.
2d. Bona f#de residents of the State or Territory mentioned
in the act. 3d. They were to be permitted to fell and remove
any timber or trees growing or being on the public lands, provided they were mineral, and not subject to entry under existing laws of the United States; and they were authorized and
permitted to fell and remove such timber only for building,
agricultural, mining or other domestic purposes. Th6 cutting
and removing were to be done under rules and regulations
prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior. Outside of these
exceptions, there was no right in any person to cut a particle
of timber on these public lands of the government.
The right to cut is exceptional and "quite narrow, and for
specified purposes only. The broad general rule is against
the right. If the plaintiffs had acquired the right by reason
of a compliance with the provisions of the statute, the facts
should have been shown by them. The presumption in the
absence of evidence is that the cutting is illegal. United
States v. Cook, 19 Wall. 591.
In the case last cited it was held that the timber upon the
lands occupied by the Indians could not be cut by them for
purposes of sale alone, but that it could be cut for the purpose
of improving the land and the better adapting it to con venient
occupation, and that when the timber had been cut incidentally
for the improvement of the land, and not for the purpose of
cutting and selling it, there was no restriction on the sale of
it. The Indians having only the right of occupancy in the
lands, and. therefore, presumptively no right to cut timber for
the purpose of selling, it was further held that if they cut

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. LEWIS.

377

Opinion of the Court.

timber in the process of improving the land, that fact must
be shown ; the presumption was against the authority to out
and sell the timber. Every purchaser from them, it was held,
was charged with notice of this presumption, and that to
maintain his title it was incumbent on the purchaser to show
that the timber was rightfully severed from the land. So
here. As the government was the sole and absolute owner
of these lands and of the timber growiig thereon, the presumption would be against the right of any third person to
cut the timber, and if he claimed the right by virtue of any
authority or license given him by the owner, that is, the government, he would be compelled to show it; There was no
evidence given on this subject by either party, and hence the
plaintiffs did not satisfy the burden of proof which rested
upon them in this behalf.
Again, the consent to cut timber granted by the act of 1878
being upon the conditions and for the purposes therein specified and to the classes of persons therein described, whether
the plaintiffs, who did this cutting, had complied with those
conditions and 'had cut timber for the purposes mentioned,
and were within the class of persons, described in the statute,
were facts which rested peculiarly within their own knowledge,
the burden of showing which would naturally and rightfull y
be cast upon them. As the plaintiffs failed to show that
they came within the conditions and exceptions specified in
the act of 1878, the presumption that they cut the timber
illegally became conclusive. Nor did the plaintiffs obtain any
rights under section 8 of the laws 'of -Congress, approved
March. 3, 1891, c. 561, entitled "An act to repeal timber
culture law and for other purposes." -26 Stat. 1095. That
section was amended by the act approved on the same day,
March 3, 1891, c. 559, Ibid. 1093. Neither section grants
any relief to one situated like the plaintiffs. The section in
either act looks to a criminal pros echtion or civil -action by
the United States for trespass upon public timber lands to
recover for the timber and lumber cut thereon, and it is provided that it should be a defence if the defendant should show
that the timber was so cat or removed by a resident of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

State or Territory for agricultural, mining, manufacturing or
domestic purposes, and had not been transported out of the
same. If the plaintiffs had shown these facts they would
have proved enough to sustain their case on this point. They
.showed nothing upon the subject. It is not a case of condonation. It is simply a question whether the plaintiffs have
brought themselves within any of the exceptions provided for
in the statute of 187S, and we bold that the burden was upon
them to show the facts which constituted the exception if
they existed.
We have then an act of pure trespass, committed by the
plaintiffs in entering upon the lands of the governneut and
cutting down trees belonging to the owner of such lands. We
find that the title to the timber was in the government before
it was cut, and that the title remained in the government
subsequently to the cutting. The plaintiffs still being trespassers, still being utterly without title to the wood thus cut,
changed its situs from one part of the land belonging to the
government to another part of the land belonging to the same
owner. The plaintiffs in going or being upon the land at all
for the purpose of illegally cutting or removing timber are
-trespassers; they neither own it nor claim to own it, nor have
they the slightest title to or interest in it, nor any ownership of or title to the timber which they have illegally cut.
They have carried property which did not belong to them,
which they acquired and took by means of this trespass, from
one part of the owner's domain to another part thereof. Can
they be said under such circumstances to be in possession of
such property ? Can they be in possession of property to
which they have not the slightest title, while that property
remains upon the land of the owner, from which land the
trees were cut, and upon which land the plaintiffs could not
(for the purpose of illegally cutting or removing timber) enter
or remain for one moment without the commission of a trespass ? These facts being proved, is there any such possession
as is prima facie evidence of title, right or. ownership in the
plaintiffs such as will enable them to maintain an action
against a wrongdoer for the negligent destruction of this

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. LEWIS.

379

Opinion of the Court.

property? We think not. It is not a case for the application
of the principle that mere possession is sufficient in order to
maintain an action against a wrongdoer. There is no possession in this case. The plaintiffs in the course of their evidence
show that they have no title to the wood, and at the same
time they show that they were not in possession of it. As the
wood in question belonged to the United States at the time of
its destruction, and at that time was piled on its own lands,
we fail to.see why the government could not now commence
an action against the company to recover the value of the
wood, and if negligence were proved succeed in its suit. If
plaintiffs' ahtion could be sustained, the judgment herein
would be no bar to the maintenance of an action by the government, and the company would find itself subject to the
payment of damages twice over. It seems to us quite clear
that the plaintiffs have shown no such possession as would be
necessary to sustain this action, even if the defendant were not
permitted to show title in a third person without connecting
itself with the stranger. It is unnecessary to say whether the
plaintiffs would have proved a good cause of action by proof
of possession merely, if the facts in regard to the illegal character of the cutting had. also been proved.
A reference to a few cases in the state courts will not be out
of place.
In the case of Turley v. Tucker, 6 Missouri, 583, it appeared that the plaintiffs were owners of a saw mill and cut
down trees on the public lands, and marked them, in convenient lengths, for their purposes. While the logs remained
where felled a portion of them was taken by Tucker to his
mill, and the plaintiff sued the defendant in an action of
.trover, for the value of the logs thus taken. The defendants
requested the. court to charge that if the jury found, that the
plaintiff out the timber taken by, the defendant, without a
bona jli view to its use, and did not use the same, the timber
being and appertaining to the public domain and lying at the
place where felled, then the plaintiff was a trespasser against
the United States, and could not recover against the defendant
for using a part of said timber. This was refused, and on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

contrary the court instructed the jury that "although the logs
migbt have been cut by plaintiff, on the public ground for
their own use, yet they acquired such property in the logs as
would enable them to maintain an action of trover for the'logs
against a wrongdoer."
The instruction actually given was
held to be erroneous. It is true the action is described as one
of trover, but the principle laid down in the opinion is quite
pertinent here. The court says: "The authorities are very
-clear that" mere possession is only prima facie evidence of
property to maintain this action against a wrongdoer." The
question was, whether the plaintiff, by cutting timber on the
land of the *United States, acquired such possession. There
was evidence which alone and unexplained tended to establish
the fact of possession, but there were other facts connected
with the possession which at the same time proved it to have
-irisen out of a tort, and that kind of possession was held to
be insufficient, because the evidence, while tending to.-establish
possession, at the same time and thereby proved an absolute
property in another. In other words, the tortious possession
was held to be no possession in that case. In the case at bar
the title to the property was at the time of its destruction
in the government; the property was then on land owned
by the government; the plaintiffs had no right or title to
that land, and made no claim of title to or interest in it; and
on these facts the plaintiffs cannot be held to have been in
possession of the property.
In O/o & -MississippiRailroad v. Jones, 27 Illinois, 41, it
was held that to authorize one to recover for an injury to
property he must show that he is the absolute or qualified
-owner thereof. It was stated in that case that there was no
evidence that the plaintiff was the owner of the property or
that Ire had possession of it, and that although possession
might be evidence of ownership, there must be some evidence of possession. As there was none, the court reversed
the judgment for the plaintiff.
In Mvrp/hy v. Railroad Co., 55 Iowa, 473, it was held that
one who, without authority, cuts and stacks hay on unenclosed
prairie owned by others, acquires no property in such hay, and

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. LEWIS.

381

Opinion of the Court.

having neither ownership nor possession, cannot maintain an,
action for its destruction. The plaintiff brought his action
to recover for an alleged negligent setting fire to the prairie.
and permitting it to escape, thereby burning 168 tons of hay,
of which the plaintiff alleged he was the owner. The answer
denied that the plaintiff was the owner of the hay alleged to
have been burned. The trial was by jury and resulted in a
verdict for the plaintiff for the value of the hay. Respecting
his ownership, the plaintiff testified that the hay was on unenclosed prairie. "The land upon which I cut this grass and
stacked the hay was not mine. I had gone onto the land and
cut the grass and stacked it. My claim to be owner of the
hay is based on this. I cut it and put it up; that is all the
claim I have. I had no license to cut or stack hay there." The
defendant asked the court to instruct the jury that if it found
"from the testimony that the plaintiff had cut and stacked
the hay, for the burning of which he seeks to recover in this
action, upon land which he did not own, and if you furtherfind 'that the plaintiff had no license or permission to cut the
grass upon said land, and stack the hay therefrom- thereon,
the title to said hay so cut and stacked was not in the plaintiff, and he cannot maintain an action to recover for the destruction thereof by fire which burned over the. prairie upon
which the same was stacked." This was refused. The court
did instruct the jury that "in the absence of some title or
right of defendant in the land upon which the grass was
stacked, and from which it was grown and cut, the ownership of the hay in plaintiff, as against the defendant, is'not
disproved by showing that the said larid from which the grass
was grown and cut, and upon which it was stacked, was not
the property of plaintiff, nor can the ownership of plaintiff be
disproved as against defendant by showing that the plaintiff
had no license or permit from the owner of the land to cut
the grass, or stack the same upon the land where it was
burned." The court held that upon authority as well as upon
principle, as the plaintiff entered upon the land of another
without license and cut grass therefrom and made hay, he acquired no property therein, and that, "as he did not own the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

land upon which the hay was stacked, he had no constructive
possession of it; having neither title nor possession, it seems to
be a necessary consequence that he cannot recover."
This seems to be very much such a case as the one at bar.
In the one case the hay was cut from land not owned by the
plaintiff, and was stacked by him thereon and was destroyed
by fire alleged to have been the negligent act of the defendant. In the other the wood is cut from land not owned by
plaintiffs and is piled upon land not owned by them, and
while thus piled is destroyed by the negligent act of the defendant ; and yet it was held in the Iowa case that the plaintiff had no sufficient possession of the property destroyed to
maintain the action. We see no reason why the same rule
should not be applied to this case.
In Jlfissouri Pac. Railway v. Cullers, 81 Texas, 382, the
Supreme Court of Texas laid down the proposition, "that if
it is established that the plaintiff was not the owner of the
property and had no other interest therein than the bare possession thereof, then, where the measure of damage relied
upon is the value of the property injured, destroyed or converted, in such case the defendant would not be legally liable
to compensate the plaintiff for the value of property which
he did not own, and ought to be permitted to prove title in a
third party, not only for the purpose of disproving the plaintiff's right, or rather claim,.for damages without an injury to
himself, but also to avoid being compelled to respond in double
damages for the same injury to the property. Until such outstanding title or a title in the defendant is established, however, the possessory right of the plaintiff is sufficient to justify
a full recovery. Hence it is correctly said that the actual
possession of property is prima facie proof of the ownership
thereof, but it amounts to no more than this."
There is no actual possession in such a case as this where the
property belongs to. a third person, and is stil" on the premises
of that third person, to go upon which is an act of trespass on
the part of the individual claiming to be in possession of the
property. Neither can any constructive possession be based,
upon these facts. Hence it would appear that plaintiffs had

[cINTIRE v. MoINTIRE.
Syllabus.

failed to maintain their action for the wood cut by themselves.
They do. not occupy any more advantageous position in
regard to the wood purchased by them from those who had
with their knowledge cut it from the lands of the* United
States. Plaintiffs had the same rights only as the personsfrom whom they purchased, and could maintain no action
which they could not maintain. Woodenr Ware Co. v. United
States, 106 U. S. 432, 435.
The persons from whom the plaintiffs purchased cut the
timber under the same circumstances as the plaintiffs cut that
which they claim, and such persons had the same rights that
the plaintiffs had, and no more.
The court should have charged the jury as requested, both
in regard to the rights of the plaintiffs at the time of the fire
in and to the wood cut by them, and also as to their rights in
and to the wood purchased by them from others.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed;
the judgment of the Circuit Court is
R eversed, and the cause -emanded with instructions to grant
a new trial.

cINTIRE v. McINTIRE.
ERROR TO TIE

SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRIOT. OF COLUMBIA.

No. 142. Argued March 13, 1896. -Decided

April 13,1896.

On the trial of this case in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
that court, after examination of the facts, held that: "(1) Where a will
relates only to personalty, and is in the handwriting of the testator and
signed by him, no other formality is required to render it valid" in the
District; and that "1(2) Immaterial alterations in a will, though made
after the testator's death by one of the beneficiaries under it, will not invalidate it" in the courts of the District, "when not fraudulently made."
This court, after passi'ng upon the facts in detail, arrives at substantially
the same conclusions touching theln as did the Supreme Court of the District, and affirms its judgmient.

