BLAGGE v. BALCH.
Statement of the Case.

BLAGGE v. BALCH.
BROOKS v. CODMAN.
ERROR

TO

THE

SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT

OF

THE STATE

OF

VASSACHUSETTS.

FOOTE v. WOMEN'S BOARD OF MISSIONS.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE COUNTY OF NEW HAVEN,
STATE OF CONNECTICUT.
Nos. 177, 234, 207. Argued and submitted March 24, 25,1896. -Decided April 18, 1896.

The proviso in the act of March 3, 1891, c. 540, 26 Stat. 908, "That in all
cases where the original sufferers were adjudicated bankrupts the awards
shall be made on behalf of the next of kin instead of to assignees in bankruptcy, and the awards in the cases of individual claimants 8hall not be
pai4 until the Court of Claims shall certify to the Secretary of the
Treasury that the personal representative on whose behalf the award is
made represents the next of kin, and the courts which granted the administrations, respectively, shall have certified that the legal representatives have given adequate security for the legal disbursement of the
awards," purposely brought the payments thus prescribed within the
category of payments by way of gratuity and grace, and not as .of right
as against the government.
Congress intended the next of kin to be beneficiaries In every case; and.the
express limitation to this effect excludes creditors, legatees, assignees
and all strangers to the blood.
The words "next of kin," as used in the proviso, mean next of kin living at
the date of the act, to be determined according to the statutes oZ distribution of the respective States of the domicil of the original suffereks.
The said act of March 3, 1891, c. 540, 26 Stat. 908, clearly Indicates the judgment of Congress that the next of kin, for the purposes of succession,
should be the beneficiaries, as most in accord with the theory of the
appropriations.
THESE are writs of error to review judgments of the Supreme
Judicial Court of Massachusetts in Nos. 177 and 284, and a
judgment of the Superior Court of the county of New Haven,
Connecticut. in No. 207.
Plaintiffs in error in No. 177 are administrators de boni8 nbn

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

with the will annexed of the estate of Crowell Hatch, deceased,
late of Roxbury, Massachusetts, and defendant in error is administrator de bonis nn with the will annexed of the estate
of Henry Hatch, deceased.
Crowell Hatch died in the year 1805, leaving three daughters
and one son, Henry Hatch. By his will, all his property was
given in equal shares to the four children. Of each of the
three daughters there are descendants now living. The son
died leaving a widow but no issue, and left by his will the
residue of his estate to his widow, who did not afterwards
marry. Crowell Hatch was never bankrupt and his estate
and the estates of his four children have always been and are
solvent. Plaintiffs in error as administrators of the estate of
Crowell Hatch have received from the United States certain
moneys for the loss of the brig Mary, being one of the claims
on account of the spoliations committed by the French government prior to July 31, 1801, which were reported to Congress
by the Court of Claims pursuant to the statute of the United
States of January 20, 1885, 23 Stat. 2S3, c. 25, and for the payment of which Congress made appropriation by the statute of
March 3, 1891; 26 Stat. 862, c. 540. By.the statutes of Massachusetts irforce when Crowell Hatch died, his estate, after
the payment of debts and the expenses of administration,
would have been distributed, if intestate, equally among his
children. Laws of Masgachusetts, Stat. 17S9, c. 2, v. 2, p. 30;
Stat. 1805, c. 90, §§1 and 2, v. 4, p. 337.
The probate court in and for the county of Norfolk, in
which proceedings were pending, ordered a partial distribution of the fund of nine sixteenths among the descendants of
the three daughters and of three sixteenths to the administrator of Henry Hatch, the son. From this order an appeal was
taken to the Supreme Judicial Court, and the case reserved
for the full court, by which the decree appealed from was
affirmed. 157 Mass. 144.
In No. 281, William Gray, as administrator de bonis non,
with the.will annexed of the estate of William Gray, who was
a sufferer from the French spoliations, filed his bill in equity
in the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts for instruc-

BLAGGE v. BALCH.
Statement of the Case.

tions as to the disposition of a fund which had been paid to
him under the act of Congress of March 3,1891. On his death,
pending the cause, Robert Codman succeeded to the administration and was substituted as, complainant. All the living
legatees and next of kin and the representatives of such as
were deceased were made parties defendant. The case was
heard by a single judge of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts and reported by him to the ful court, which entered
a final decree that the funds in the hands of the complainant
should be "paid over as assets of the estate of William Gray,
the elder, and as passing under his will to the residuary legatees named therein." '159 Mass. 477.
William Gray died November, 1825, leaving five sons,
William R., Henry, Francis. C., John C. and Horace, and one
daughter, Lucia G. Swett. He left a will by which, after a
specifio legacy to the daughter and a conditional legacy to each
son, he gave the residue to his five sons, excluding the daughter.
The fund in question, if it falls to the estate at all, is part of
the residue. William R. died in 1831;' intestate, leaving four
children him surviving, one of whom died in 1880 leaving five
children. In 1829 Henry assigned his interest in his father's
estate to his four brothers, and died in 1854 leaving ten children. Francis C. died in 1856 and John C. in 1881, testate,
but without issue. Horace died in 1873, intestate, leaving five
children. In 1847 he assigned all his property under the insolvent laws of Massachusetts to Hooper, Bullard and Coffin,
as assignees.for creditors, and of these assignees two survive
and are parties. Mrs. Swett died in 1844. She had had four
children, of whom William G. died in 1843, leaving a daughter
surviving; John B. died in 1867, leaving a daughter surviving;
Samuel B. died in 1890, leaving five children; and one child,
Mrs. Alexander, still survives.
The representatives of the three brothers, William R.,Francis
C. and John C., ajnd the assignees of Horace, contended that
the fund passed by the will of William Gray, and should be
paid to them in equal proportions as representing four of 'the
five residuary legatees, and as being assignees of the fifth son,
Henry. The individual descendants of the brothers, except

OCTOBER TER'M, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

those of Henry, made no contrary claim, and by their answers
either took the same position or admitted the allegations of the
bill and submitted the questions to the court.
The representatives and descendants of Henry Gray insisted
that the fund did not pass under the will, but was a new and
subsequent gift in favor of the next of kin of William Gray;
that it should go to the nineteen grandchildren of William
Gray, excluding the great grandchildren, namely, the three
children of William R., who survived at the date of the act of
Congress, the ten children of Henry, the five children of Horace,
and Mrs. Alexander, the one surviving child of Mrs. Swett;
and that they were entitled to ten nineteenths of the fund distributed per capita among the grandchildren.
The representatives and descendants of Lucia G. Swett also
contended that the fund did not pass under the will and was
a subsequent gift in favor of the next of kin of William Gray,
but they insisted that in the distribution among the next of
kin of William Gray, to be ascertained at the date of the passage of the act, the i~sue of the deceased children should take
by right of representation the shares of their parents according to the statute of distributions, or that the fund should be
distributed among the representatives of the next of kin to be
ascertained at the death of William Gray, the elder. Distributed per stirpes, they claimed for the children and grandchildren of Mrs. Swett one fourth of the fund, one sixteenth to
Mrs. Alexander, one sixteenth to the daughter of William G.,
one sixteenth to the daughter of John B. and one eightieth to
each of the five children of Samuel B., making another sixteenth; or that, taking the distribution as of the date of the
death of William Gray, the administrator of the estate of Mrs.
Swett was entitled to one sixth part of the fund as the representative of one of the six children of William Gray, surviving
him.
In No. 207 the facts appeared to be these: In 1797 the
firm of Leffingwell and Pierrepont owned a ship and cargo
which were seized by a French privateer in June of that year
and became the subject of a French spoliation claim. William
Leffingwell, the senior partner, lived in New Haven, Connecti-

BLAGGE v. BALCH.
Statement of the Case.

cut, and died testate in 1834. His estate was finally settled
in 1844, and no mention of his interest in this claim was made
in his will or in the distribution of his estate. The surviving
partner lived in New York and died testate in 1878. His
executor presented the claim to the Court of Claims in 1886,
and a favorable -decision was secured in 1888, and an appropriation made by the act of March 3, 1891. In 1886, administration de bonis non on the estate of William Leffingwell
was taken out by Oliver S. White in the probate court. for
the district of New Haven, Connecticut, and the administrator
has received from the representatives of the surviving partner.
half the net proceeds of the award. The probate court, in
settling the question of the administration de bonis non,
treated the fund as part of the residuary estate of the testator, and ordered its distribution to the residuary legatees
under his will and their representatives or successors. An
appeal was taken to the Superior Court, which, in conformity
to the advice of the Supreme Court of Errors, 62 Connecticut,
34:7, affirmed the decree of the court of probate.
William Leffingwell left as his next of kin him surviving
the four children named in his will, Mrs. Street, Mrs. Williams,
Lucius W., Edward H., and the children of his deceased sbn
William C. Mrs. Street died testate and solvent in 1878; Mrs.
Williams and Edward H. died testate and without issue; and
the next of kin of William Leffingwell living on March 3,-1891,
were, as was agreed, according to the statute of distributions
of Connecticut, (1) plaintiffs in error, the grandchildren of Mrs.
Street; (2) six children of Lucius W., a grandson of Lucius W.,
and the widow of. a deceased son of Lucius W.; (3) a son of
William C. and three grandchildren of said William C. The
probate decree ordered the fund dist'muted among the five
residuary legatees named in the will of William, "one fifth
thereof to the executors or administrators of Caroline Street,
a daughter of said. deceased." If this one fifth were considered as general assets of Mrs. Street's estate, it went to the
residuary legatee under her will, the Women's Board of Missions, otherwise it.
belonged-to plaintiffs in error as throughi
her the next of kin of William Leffingwell on one line of

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

descent. Plaintiffs in error claimed that on March 3, 1891,
when the act of Congress was passed, they were entitled to
their due shares _per stirpes of the fund, to wit, one third
thereof, there being only three of the five children of William
Leffingwell who survived him, whose descendants were living
at that date.
This court, before argument began, ordered that three hours
be allowed counsel for the plaintiffs in error in the argument
of these cases, and that three counsel be heard on each side.
As it is manifestly impossible to find room for all these arguments in the report of the case, the reporter confines himself
to -reporting the arguments in the first case in order on the
docket, and only upon the points on which the decision of it
turned.
-Mr. George A. King (of Boston) for plaintiffs in error in
Blagge v. Balc, No. "177.
Is the fund received by the plaintiffs in error, in their capacity of administrators, to be treated (a) as a part of the
estate of Crowell Hatch ; -or (b) as an appropriation made
for the direct benefit of the next of kin of the said decedent?
The Supreme Court of the District of Columbia has determined that the grant is not to the estate of the decedent
but to the next of kin. Gardnerv. Clarke, 20 Dist. Col. 261.
The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania has also so decided. In
re Clement's Estate, 150 Penn. St. 85; .Appeal of Bailey,
160 Penn. St. 391.
The Supreme Court of Massachusetts cannot be cited in
favor of either proposition. The dissenting opinion in Codman v. Brooks, 159 Mass. 477, written by the Chief Justice,
takes the ground that the creditors of the original sufferer are
to be excluded from receiving the money. If -this be so, it
would seem to follow, necessarily, that the fund is no part of
the estate of the original sufferer, but a gift to his next of
kin.
The Supreme . Court of Connecticut stands alone in the
opinion that the fund is to all intents and purposes a part of

BLAGGE v. BALCH.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

the estate of the original decedent. Leffngwell's Appeal, 62
Connecticut, 347.
We are of opinion that the fund goes to the next of kin
living at the passage of the act, for the following reasons, in
addition to those given in the above cited cases.
I. If the awards are to the next of kin, there seems to be
no escape from the conclusion that they are to be paid to such
next of kin as are represented by the administrators. This
representation is to be established by evidence sufficient to
enable the Court of Claims to grant its certificate. It is not
that representation which inheres in the office of administrator,
for such representation only applies to the decedent. Inasmuch as it is a fact to be proved by evidence it is not a representation that grows out of the nature of the office. In this
case, the administrators of Crowell Hatch do not now and
never did represent Henry Hatch in law or fact. Having died
long since, he cannot be represented by these administrators.
The only next of kin who can be represented, who can authorize anybody to represent them, are the living next of kin.
The next of kin of the original sufferer are frequently
widely scattered. The practice in the Court of Claims has
uniformly been, als it necessarily must be, to require proof that
all these persons concur in appointing the administrator as
their representative. That was done in this case. The living
next of kin are, therefore, the persons represented by the
administrators, and are, therefore, the persons entitled to the
fund.
II. It may be suggested, also, that it is hardly reasonable
to suppose that Congress meant that one set of men should
elaborately provide for this representation in order that they
might be excluded from the fund for the benefit of other
persons.
III. The purpose of the act being to discharge an equitable
obligation and make an award to the living persons descended
from those who lost their property for the benefit of the
government, the purpose of the proviso was plainly to prevent
any payment where there were no representdtives of the original sufferer to receive the fund.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Defendant, in Error.

There are a number of cases where there are appropriations
in this act and where no money has been or ever can be obtained because the family of the loser has become extinct, and
there are no living persons to -make proof of representation
and get a certificate from the Court of Claims.
IV. Of the four children of Crowell Hatch, there are living
descendants of three, and they are the only next of kin. It
was wholly by representing these that the administrators
were able to obtain the money awarded. Henry Hatch, the
petitioner's decedent, left no issue. It would have been impossible to obtain from the government one dollar on his
account.
.Mr.FrancisY. Ba h and .Mr.Felix Rackemann, for defend-

ant in error in No. 177, submitted on their brief.
In seeking for the key note of the proviso, it is plain that
Congress was dealing with the settlement of claims nearly one
hundred years old, and that numbers of the original sufferers
had become bankrupt (many driven into bankruptcy by these
very spoliations), and no single survivor of the original sufferers remained.
Congress had had the "Alabama Claims" distribution as
an object lesson, where the disputes with assignees in bankruptcy, and the practical difficulties of proper distribution
among creditors in insolvency after the lapse of years, stood
prominent as danger signals. If creditors in bankruptcy of
"Alabama" claimants were difficult to ascertain and reach,
how would it be with the bankruptcy files of 1800, and where
would the labor and the litigation end ?
The proviso only applies to cases where the original sufferer
was bankrupt. No part of it is intended to operate in any
other case. All other cases stand on the word "pay" and
the designation of the payees in the schedule.
Assume for the moment that the proviso applies to the present and not to future appropriations.
The proviso is one sentence, broken only by commas. It
begins, "provided that in all cases where the original sufferers

DILAGGE v. BALCH.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

were adjudicated bankrupts." Here is a distinct and technical description of a particular catastrophe well known to every
one - lawyer or layman. Beginning in this way, with special
emphasis placed upon this particular event, -the whole proviso
would be expected to relate to and be applicable to this event
unless some other is distinctly introduced. If a new class of
events were to be dealt with in the rest of the sentence it
should naturally be clearly demarked, as if, for instance, it
said, "and in cases where the original sufferer was not adjudged bankrupt," such and such shall be the rule. The sentence, however, goeso on, "and the awards in the cases of
individual claimants shall not be paid until," etc. There is
no sensible construction which can be given to "individual
claimants" which will make it distinct and marked off from
cases where the original sufferer was adjudicated bankrupt.
Would not assignees of bankrupts be individual claimants?
Would not the next of kin on whose behalf the award is to be
made in cases of bankruptcy b.e individual claimants?
We submit that the words "and in the cases of individual
claimants" mean simply this, in the case of "the individual
claimants," or in the case "of each individual dlaimant" who
was so adjudicated, i.e., that in each case where there was
bankruptcy of the original sufferer or claimant, there shall be
an investigation, to make sure that the party .prosecuting the
claim is acting for the next of kin, and not for the creditors.
This is further shown by the word "res.ectively." This
makes the whole consistent and clear, and is made further
apparent by the differences in the operative words in the two
parts of the sentence. In the leading part of the sentence
the words are, the "awards shall be made," but in the second
part of the sentence the language is "and . . . the awards
shall not be 2aid." This is natural if the latter part of the
sentence provides merely an additional precautioh affecting
the cases spoken of in the earlier part; but it would be
nothing short of extraordinary if the sentence should provide
for the few cases of bankruptby by mandatory words, "The
awards shall be made," and should then proceed to dispose
of the immeasurably larger and more important class of non-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

bankrupts, not by saying in such cases, too, the awards "shall
be made on behalf of next of kin," but by a merely negative
administrative provisipn as to their payment when made.
The reason for such a precaution in case of bankruptcy becomes apparent when it is remembered that the administrator
or executor of the assignee might claim to receive the award
on behalf of the next of kin, not being expressly excluded as
the assignee himself is, Richards v. MHaryland Insurance Co.,
8 Cranch, 84. Such administrator or executor might well be
hostile to the next of kin, and even if the award were to the
executor or administrator of the bankrupt sufferer he might
be under the dominance of the creditors.
Another consideration leads irresistibly to the same conclusion. Had it been the intention in all cases to make the "payment" as a gratuity to the next of kin, it would have been
the simplest thing possible to have said so. How strange, if
such was the intent, to begin by laying special stress upon the
peculiar case of original sufferers who Were adjudicated bankrupts. Such a case would be the exception, not the general
rule. As well might the law say that every man who carries
a concealed revolver shall be subject to a fine of five dollars,
and every man who carries a concealed weapon shall be subject to a fine of five dollars.
Legal propositions do not ordinarily have the certainty of
mathematical conclusions, but it seems almost a mathematical
certainty that the latter part of this proviso could not have
been intended to cover all cases of claimants. if not, what class
was it intended not to cover?
It will be said it was intended .to cover all but the "corporate" claimants, and that as a corporation could not have been
adjudicated bankrupt, this construction leaves the bankrupt
original sufferers to make one class, the solvent individual
sufferers another class, and the corporate sufferers a third
class, the provisions of the latter part of the proviso embracing
all the bankrupts and all the individual non-bankrupts, it being in the case of bankrupts an additional precaution, and in
the case of the non-bankrupts the sole precaution.
This is a possible construction, but it gives no explanaion

BLAGGE v. BALCH.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

of the emphasis laid on the case of bankruptcy, or of the resulting inanity of providing clearly for the few, and ambiguously and imperfectly for the many, or of the improbability
of any effort to produce in this cumbrous and dubious way
an effect.which only needed a word or two. Surely, to make
an executor of a will take on behalf of next of kin (and
there were many cases of executors among the claims appropriated for, our own being a case of administration with
will annexed), it needs as strong language as to make an administrator of a bankrupt or of his assignee take on behalf of
next of kin.
The marginal note to the proviso, though of no great weight,
shows that the proviso was understood merely to cover cases
of bankruptcy.
If it is considered forced to read "individual claimants"
as "the individual claimants," thus making the proviso to
require a certificate in each individual case of a bankrupt sufferer, which we submit is the most natural and must have
been the real meaning, we may read it as applying to all cases
where the administrators or executors, who are- to take the
bankrupt claim on behalf of next. of kin are "inoividuals," it
not being considered necessary to require a certificate in the
case of corporate administrators or executors, as corporations
would. only be admitted to such trusts where clearly responsible. There are three such cases, at least, among those for
which appropriations are made: The Safe Deposit and Trust
Company, Baltimore, the Peni.Company and the Union Trust
Company, New York. Or "individual claimants" may be
intended to designate the "next of kin" who are substituted
for creditors by the first part of the sentence, and in a certain
loose sense may be considered as "individual" claimants as
contradistinguished from an assignee claiming not for himself
but others. In'this sense again-" individual claimants" would
cover the cases of bankruptcy and no more.
But the proviso is not applicable at all to the present appropriations.
. This appears from its use of the word "awards," from the
evident belief on the part of the framers of the law that they
voL cLx=-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

had weeded out all cases of bankruptcy from the present appropriations, and by the use of the future tense.
This was so held in a well considered case in the Court of
Claims. Hen ry v. Uiited States, 27 C. Cl. 142.
If for the sake of argument the case at bar be conceded to
be one intended to be covered by the words " individual claimants," still the question recurs, What does the proviso provide
in such case?
It provides %partial protection against creditors but does
not attempt to protect against them absolutely. It does not
attempt to fix the class who are to take absolutely.
The shield is applied to a broader class, it extends to cases
where the original sufferer was not bankrupt; but the shield
is not itself changed.
That protection is intended against creditors generally
may, for the argument, be granted, but how thorough protection?
Where the original sufferer was bankrupt, and his assignee
claimed, the award, we have seen, was, to be changed so as to
go to the executor or administrator.
Here no change is attempted in the award, but certain
partial and preliminary precautions are to be taken before
paying the award.
It is to appear, in substance, that debts are out of the way,
that the heirs or legatees moved in getting the administration,
and that the administrator is under suitable bonds.
If the proviso does operate. as though it said the awards
are to be on behalf of next of kin in all cases except those of
corporate original sufferers, it uses (Inext of kin" in a loose
sense, to cover all claimants under a solvent original sufferer.
The statute is wholly colorless as to any intent to set off next
of kin against legatees. Can it be supposed for a moment
that an executor could not be a claimant? Where there was
a will there could be no administrator except with will annexed. The case at bar is such. Does the statute say that in
all such cases the award shall be changed and made to an
agent of the kin? Certainly not. What the statute does,
upon the present assumption, is to set off kin as representing

BLAGGE v. BALCH.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

both heirs and legatees against creditors, the most conspicuous
class, "next of kin," being put forward for the whole.
If it be said that the words "next of kin" cannot be so
broadened, how narrow shall they be made? As narrow as
in Swazey v. Jaques, 144 Mass. 135, cutting off nephews if
there was a brother? Surely not. And does not the impossibility of this show that. the words were. used in a loose and
general sense, not the technical one? Why infringe farther
than necessary upon the doctrine of ownership by original
sufferers ?
But suppose for a moment this statute uses "next of kin"
as opposed both to legatees and creditors, all it requires is
that there should be next of kin and that the administrator
should represent them.
The statute in that case does indeed say that the administrator must represent next of kin, but it does not say he must
represent- living next of kin, nor if it could be so construed
does it say he must represent such exclusively. It may well
be that Congress intended that if there were no living kin
there should be no payment of a claim likely to prove escheated'
In the case at bar, the administrators could truly say they
represented living next of -kin, but they could not truly say
they represented living next of kin exclusively. They represented those claiming under Henry Hatch, as well. How and
when did they cease to represent us? They could truly say
they represented next of kin exclusively, if, as is here contended, those living at the death of Crowell I-Hatch *were the
next of kin intended by the statute. It was a fraud on the
Court of Claims if they stated they represented living next of
kin exclusively.
But whatever the password was, it has been given. The
Court of Claims has lifted the gate and we are through. Now
the law must have its course, our law, the Massachusetts law,
the law which these administrators have given bonds to follow, and which bonds they were obliged to certify to the
Court of Claims in order to get this very money.
But if "next of-kin" means kin strictly, and that such kin

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

alone are to take, then it means kin living at the decease of
the original sufferer.
The period of decease is always, in the absence of clear
intent to the contrary, the period at which heirs or next of
kin are determined. Jarman on Wills, 5th Amer. ed. 670.
The mind of the draftsman was turned to the past, to the
original sufferer; did it at once turn to the present on the
mention of next of kin?
It will be said that a gratuity cannot be given to a dead
person. In the first place it is not a case of gratuity; and in
the second place, even if it were a gratuity, the beneficial
donees who, it is admitted, must, in such case be living, may
be as well designated "those now entitled had it formed part
of the sufferer's estate" (which is equivalent to next of kin at
death of the dufferer) as "those now entitled had the sufferer
died in the stat6 of his domicil possessed of the property,
intestate, and without surviving husband or wife." There is
no word in the whole proviso which implies that now living,
next of kin, were meant.
Granting, then, that if Crowell Hatch had willed away his
property from his kin, the kin and not legatees would have.
taken, yet here he willed to his kin, his four children, of whom
Henry was one, and whose administrator must take a share in
either aspect.
Suppose it is a gratuity, - why infringe farther than is
necessary upon the rights Of the original sufferers to have the
funds treated as part of their estates ?
-Even if the court should believe that in some vague and
general way the nexb of kin living at the date of the act
were -intended to take, the intent is not so expressed that it
can so take effect.
The meaning of this statute cannot be guessed at.
Suppose it were a will- where, if ever, intent is the polar
star of construction. First comes a clear grant to pay a debt
which -has passed into judgment, then comes this ambiguous
proviso. It could not operate to cut down a clear grant.
There is certainly nothing within the four corners of this
instrument which shows such intent in any clear form; quite

BLAGGE v. BALCH.
Opinion of the Court.

a contrary intent is shown. Beyond and outsider the instruinent, the surroiundings .and motives of the actors are more
than eve- convincing that no such intent existed. If there
were an intent to pay-to an administrator under bonds in our
courts t, fuild which he was not to treat as assets, and which
yet was to be secured by his bond, this was an inconsistent
and impossible intent.
It is not denied that an executor in Massachusetts may,
under the operation of the statute law, collect, in certain
cases, rents for which he will be held liable on his bond,
though not strictly assets, nor that he may not collect life
insurance moneys belonging to the widow where the contract
was with the deceased, nor that he may not be empowered by
statute to collect compensation for death for the benefit of
next of kin. But it cannot plausibly be claimed that these administrators would be liable on their bonds, or that the probate court would have jurisdiction in respect to these amounts
unless they were assets. Special legislation would have been
requisite in Massachusetts (and probably in every other State
Where any original sufferer .was domiciled), to carry out the
intent of gratuity to living next of kin collected by executors
and administrators of the original sufferers. Surely, plain
terms*would have been employed if such an unusual purpose
had been entertained.
Mr. William Warner Hoppin for plaintiffs in error in .Foote v.
Women's Board of Missions, No. 207, submitted on his brief.
.-Mr. James HI.. Webb and Mr. John W. Alling for defendants in error in No. 207.
Mr. Jabez Fox, (with whom was Mr. W. G. Russell on the
brief,) Mr.. William Gray Brooks and Mr. Harvey D. RHadlock
for plaintiffs in error in Brooks v. (odman, No. 284.
.Mr.Joseph B. Warner for defendants in error in No. 284.
MR;. CHIEF JUSTIcE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERI, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

The French spoliation claims arose from the depredations
of French cruisers upon our commerce and from the judgments of French prize courts, and could have been enforced
against France only by our government, either by diplomacy
or by war. In the negotiations leading up to the treaty of
September 30, 1800, 8. Stat. 178, these claims of individuals
were presented by our commissioners to France, who in turn
asserted claims as a nation against this government for failure
to comply with treaty guaranties and action in contravention
of treaty. The sufferers from the French spoliations have
constantly contended that, by that treaty as finally agreed on
and ratified, all claims for indemnity were mutually renounced,
and that, therefore, an obligation to indemnify them rested
upon our government.
January 20, 1885, an act of Congress was approved, 23 Stat.
c. 25, 283, providing that "such citizens of the United States,
or their legal representatives, as had valid claims to indemnity
upon the French government arising out of illegal captures,
detentions, seizures, condemnations and confiscations prior to
the ratification of the convention between the United States
and the French Republic concluded on the thirtieth day of
September, eighteen hundred, the ratifications of which were
exchanged on the thirty-first day of July following," might
apply to the Court of Claims within two years from the passage of the act, and "that the court shall examine and determine the validity and amount of all the claims included within
the description above mentioned, together with their present
ownership, and, if by assignee, the date of the assignment,
with the consideration paid therefor," and "they shall decide
upon the validity of said claims according to the rules of law,
municipal and international, and the treaties of the United
States applicable to the same, and shall report all such conclusions of fact and law as in their judgment may affect the
liability of the United States therefor," and that "such finding
and report of the court shall be taken to be merely advisory
as to the law and facts found, and shall not conclude either
the claimants or Congress; and all claims not finally presented
to said court within the period of two years limited by this

BLAGGE v. BALCH.
Opinion of the Court.

act shall be forever barred; and nothing in this act shall be
construed as committing the United States to the payment of
any such claim."
Proceeding to advise under this act, the Court of Claims, in
many cases, found with regard to claims therein presented
that the original sufferers had valid claims to indemnity upon
the French government prior to the convention of 1800; that
these claims were relinquished to France by the United States
government by that treaty in part consideration of the relinquishment of certain national claims of France against the
United States; and that this use of the claims raised an obligation under the Constitution to compensate the individual
sufferers for their losses. Gray v. United States, 21 C. C1.
340; ilolbrook v. United States, 21 0. C. 434; Cushing v.
United States, 22 0. Cl. 791.
As to the present ownership of the claims the court in
Buchanan v. United States, 24 C. C1. 74, 81, said:
"What it has endeavored to do is to ascertain the person
in whom the legal title and custody exist; that is to say,
the legal representative who in an ordinary suit at law or
proceeding in equity would be deemed the proper party to
maintain an action for the recovery of similar assets of the
original claimants. In the cases of individual owners or underwriters the court has required a present claimant to file his letters of administration and prove to the satisfaction of the court
that the decedent whose estate he. has administered was the
same person who suffered loss through the capture of a vessel.
"In cases of partnership the court has required evidence of
survivorship, and has allowed only the administrator of the
survivor to prosecute the claim.
"In cases of bankruptcy, it has held, under the decisions of
the Supreme Court, that the claim passed to the assignee, and
that on his death it passed to his administrator.
"And where the evidence has shown the bankrupt, estate
to be still, unsettled, the court has held the legal title to be
still vested in the assignee.
"In cases of incorporated companies no longer in existence,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

the court has required only the decree of a court of competent jurisdiction transferring their rights of action to the
hands of a receiver....
"In none of these cases has the court assumed to determine
who were the next of kin of a deceased claimant; nor whether
there are any; nor in what proportion were the several interests of partnership owners; nor whether creditors or descendants have the superior equity, nor whether the children of a
bankrupt are entitled to a residue of his estate; nor whether
the receiver of a defunct corporation represents creditors or
stockholders. In other words, the court has not assumed to
determine what persons are legally or equitably entitled to
receive the money which Congress may hereafter appropriate
for the discharge of th~se claims.
"When the validity of a claim against France and the
relinquishment thereof by the United States under the second
article of the treaty of 1800, and the amount in which the original claimant suffered loss, have been determined and reported,
Congress will be in possession of all the facts which this court
under its present restricted jurisdiction can possibly furnish.
It will then be within the legislative discretion "(1) To ascertain through the proper committees who are
the persons who should receive the money; or
"(2) To provide for the ascertainment of that fact by additional legislation; or
"(3) To confide the money to. the administrators and receivers who, with the exception of a few still existing corporations, constitute the present claimants, trusting that they and
the courts of which they are the officers and agents will distribute the funds among the creditors or next of kin of the
original claimants.
"The decisions in these spoliation-cases are not judgments
which judicially fix the rights of any person; and the obligations of the government are so far moral and political that
they cannot be gauged by the fixed rules of municipal law for
the measures of legal damages."
These advisory conclusions having been reported to Congress, the act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 862, 897, 908, c. 540,

BLAGGE v. BALCH.
Opinion of the Court,

was passed making appropriations to pay certain enumerated
claims with the following proviso:
"Provided, That in all cases where the original sufferers
were adjudicated bankrupts the awards shall be made on behalf of the next of kin instead of to assignees in bankruptcy,
and the awards in the cases of individual claimants shall not
be paid until the Court of Claims shall certify to the Secretary
of the Treasury that the personal representatives on whose
behalf the award is made represent the next of kin, and the
courts which granted the administrations, respectively, shall
have certified that the legal representatives have given adequate security for the legal disbursement of the awards."
The cases in hand turn upon the construction of this proviso, and while it is not denied that Congress had the power
to enact that the next of kin should take irrespective of the
legal title to the assets of the estate of the original sufferers,
it is important, in arriving at a conclusion as to whether. and
to what extent that was done, to refer to the view taken by
Congress in respect of the ground of the appropriations as indicated by its action.
Notwithstanding repeated attempts at legislation, acts in
two instances being defeated by the interposition of a veto, no
bill had become a law, during more than eighty years, which
recognized an obligation to indemnify, arising from the treaty
of 1800, and the history of the controversy shows that there
was a difference of opinion as to the effect of that treaty.
2 Whart. Int. Law, § 248, p. 714; Davis, J., Cray v. United
tates, supra. Under the act of January 20, 1885, the claims
were allowed to be brought before the Court of Claims, but
that court was not permitted to go to judgment. The legislative department reserved the final determination in regard to
them to itself, and carefully guarded against any committal of
the United States to their payment. And by the act of March
3, 1891, payment was only to be made according to the proviso. We think that payments thus prescribed to be made
were purposely brought within the category of payments by
way of gratuity, payments as of grace-and not of right.
In omegys v. VFase, 1 Pet; 193, the United States had

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion -of the Court.

stipulated with Spain that they would assume and pay certain
claims of their citizens against Spain, and an award was made
in favor of Vasse, one of the claimants, by a commission
appointed as stipulated to examine and adjudicate the claims.
Vasse had in the meantime become bankrupt, and the assignment in bankruptcy was held to carry the claim with it.
In Heard v. Williams, 140 U. S. 529, Comegys v. VTasse was
followed, and applied to the awards of the Alabama Claims
Commission. The United States had demanded and received
indemnity for losses sustained by their citizens, and had recognized as valid the class of claims to which the particular claim
belonged, and had created a court to adjudicate thereon. It
was held that the claim passed to the assignee in bankruptcy,
and that payment of awards so made could not be iegarded as
a mere gratuity.
In _Emerson's -Heirsv. Hall, 13 'Pet. 409, 413, Chew, the
collector, Emerson, the surveyor, and Lorraine, the naval
officer, of the port of New Orleans, prosecuted a vessel to condemnation for violation of the laws of the United States prohibiting the slave trade, and 'the District Court allowed their
claim to a portioi of the proceeds of the sale of the property,
but this decree was afterwards reversed, and the whole proceeds adjudged to the United States. 10 Wheat. 312. Emerson and Lorraine afterwards died, and March 3, 1831, 6 Stat:
464, Congress passed an act "for the relief of Beverly Chew,
the heirs of William Emerson, deceased, and the heirs of
Edwin Lorraine, deceased," which directed the portion of the
proceeds claimed to be paid over to Chew, "and the legal
representatives of the said William Emerson and Edwin
Lorraine, respectively;" and under authority of which the
sums which had been adjudged to these officers were paid to
them as provided. One of the creditors of Emerson claimed
the sum so paid to his legal representatives as assets for the
payment of his debts, but it was held that the payment to
the heirs was rightfully made, and that the sum could not be
considered in their hands as assets for the payment of the
debts of their father. Mr. Justice McLean, delivering the
opinion of the court, said: "A claim having no foundation in

BLAGGE v. BALCH.
Opinion of the Court.

law, but depending entirely on the generosity of the government, constitutes no basis for the action of any legal principle.
It cannot be assigned. It does not go to the administrator as
assets. It dbes not descend to the heir. And if the government from motives of public policy, or any other considerations,
should think proper, under such circumstances, to make a grant
of money to the heirs of the claimant, they receive it as a gift
or pure donation. A donation made, it is true, in reference to
some nieritorious act of their ancestor, but which did not constitute a matter of right against the government."
Manifestly the claims involved in these cases do not come
within the rule laid down in Comegys v. lFasse and Heard v.
Williams, and, without intimating any opinion on their merits,
the legislation seems to us plainly to place them 'within that
applied in Emerson?'s Heir.s v. Hall, though the circumstances
are not the same.
The first clause of the proviso relates to cases where the
original sufferers were adjudicated bankrupts, and specifically
requires the awards to be "made on behalf of the next of kin
instead of the assignees in bankruptcy." As we have seen, the
Court of Claims had informed Congress that their view was
that the action of the United States came within the constitutional provision as to the taking of private property for public
use, and hence that Congress was bound to pay the claimants
What was due them by reason of such taking, and further that
they had accordingly made awards in favor of assignees in
bankruptcy. But Congress declined to accept the views of the
Court of Claims and to treat these claims as property of the
original claimants, transferable and transmissible like other
property of the nature of choses in action, and expressly, provided that the awards should be made to the next of kin
instead of the assignees in bankruptcy.
In Henry v. United States, 27 C. C1. 142, 145, decided after
the act of March 3, 1891, was passed, the court makes a particular explanation as to this part of the proviso, saying:
"Among the claimants were several assignees, or representatives of assignees, of original sufferers who had been declared
bankrupts, and the court reported in those cases that the as-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

signees, or representatives of the assignees, were entitled to
receive from the United States the sum found to be the amount
of the losses.
"In Congress an appropriation bill was drawn and printed
,containing appropriations for all the persons named in the reports of the Court of Claims. Fr6m that bill were stricken out
all appropriations to assignees in bankruptcy so far as their
representative character appeared in the language of the act.
This is a decided indication that Congress did not intend to
pay assignees in bankruptcy."
It was held that the langtiage used in the first clause was
intenided to apply to future reports, Congress having disapproved the recommendations in favor of assignees made up to
the date of the act. That disapproval practically illustrates
the difference of view between Congress and the Court of
Claims as to-the basis on which the allowances were made.
The second clause provides, " that the awards in the cases of
individual claimants shall not be paid until the Court of Claims
shall certify to the Secretary of the Treasury that the personal
representatives in whose behalf the award is made, represent
the next of kin." Reading the first clause in the light of the
second, the meaning is that in case of bankruptcy the award.
should be made as it would be, if the original sufferer had not
been declared bankrupt, namely, "on behalf of the next of
kin." And the occasion of the introduction of the first clause
obviously was to prevent repetition of the action which had
proved fatal to some of the recommendations.
The second clause is not limited to the cases named in the
first clause, although in a certain sense it may be said to include them by way of anticipation, for it applies to all cases
.of individual claimants, as contradistinguished from corporations, and requires the certificat.e as a prerequisite to their
payment, "that the personal representatives on whose behalf
the award is made represent the next of kin."
It appears to ug that Congress intended that the next of kin
should be the beneficiaries in every case; that the limitation is
express; and that creditors, legatees and assignees, all strangers
to the blood, are excluded.

BLAGGE v. BALCH.
Opinion of the Court.

No reason is suggested for cutting off creditors where the
original sufferer became bankrupt, and not cutting them off,
where, not having gone into bankruptcy, the estate was insolvent; nor for the payment of awards to the original suffererls
next of kin if he were bankrupt, and not, if he were not. The
general rule is that so long as the debts of a decedent remain
unpaid the assets which come into his estate are to be applied
in payment, and these moneys, if they could be treated as assets at all, (being paid over, not as in liquidation of preexisting
claims thereby acknowledged, but as concessions made -on
equitable considerations,) would partake of the nature of subsequently discovered assets, and be liable to be subjected to the
payment of debts. But this cannot be so, for the awards are
explicitly required to be made on behalf. of the next of kin,
and to be paid only to personal representatives representing
the next of kin.
The certificate must be that the personal representative
does in fact represent the next of kin, and so receives the
payment on their behalf. This certificate is as much required with respect of an administrator with the will annexed as of an administrator in case of intestacy, and yet
administrators with the will annexed hold adversely to
the next of kin and do not represent them, if the fund is
to be distributed according to the will as assets of the estate. Congress well understood this in requiring that next
of kin must be represented n6twithstanding many of the
items of appropriation were in favor of administrators with
the will annexed. In Buc anan v. United States, sVqa,
the Court of Claims called the'attention of Congress to the
fact that, notwithstanding its own recommendations, it remained for Congress to determine, "first, the measure of
the indemnity for which the United States should be held
responsible; second, the persons who are equitably entitled
to receive it." And Congress thereupon determined the next
of kin to'be the persons "equitably entitled to receive;" and
while in the interpretation of wills "next of kin" is. sometimes construed to mean other persons than those of the blood
or under the statute of distributions, as for instance, legatees,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

we see no reason to construe this statute as having that operation.
In Xilligan's case, as appears from the opinion of the Court
of Claims in Durkee v. United States, 28 C. C1. 326, a certificate was refused because there were no blood relations of the
original sufferer, and the administrator had really prosecuted
the claim for the benefit of the widow's next of kin. Congress then passed the act of August 23, 1894, 28 Stat. 487,
sec. 5, providing that "in the event the court shall find there
were no next of kin, and that thtre was a widow, then that
said sum. be paid to the executor, personal representative or
next of kin of such widow." This made a new disposition of
the fund upon the theory that it did not belong to the general
assets oi the original sufferer's estate, and that where there
werf- no next of kin, in the ordinary signification of the word,
new legislation was required.
The events which had given rise to these claims had occurred
nearly a century before, and there was nothing unreasonable
in the determination of Congress that only the immediate
family of the original sufferers should participate in these
awards. These sufferers had been in their graves for sixty
years. The reasons which might have influenced them in
making particular testamentary dispositions had disappeared
with time. The claims of creditors had long been outlawed.
Equities had become too complicated to be traced. It was
enough if the fund passed to persons of the blood of the
original sufferers, or who might be entitled under the statutes
of distributions, which had been provided in each State, by
general legislation, as to the devolution of property in case of
intestacy. After all, it would then go as the original claimants might have desired if no special reasons operated to the
contrary, and as, in frequent instances, it would have finally
gone when those reasons, if once existing, had ceased to
operate.

And this conclusion is in harmony with the legislation considered in Emerson's Heirs v. 1all, supra; with section 1981
of the Revised Statutes in reference to recovery of damages by
the legal representatives of persons killed by wrongful act in

BLAGGE v. BALCH.
Opinion of the Court.

violation of the civil rights act of 1871 ; the act of Congress
of February 17, 1885, c. 126, 23 Stat. 307, providing for actions
in the District of Columbia for the death of persbns caused
by wrongful acts of others; and generally with the statutes
of the States giving a right of action for injldries resulting in
death. Tiffany on death by wrongful act, App. 281, 344.
The third clause provided that the awards should not be
paid until "the courts whiih granted the administrations, respectively, shall have certified that the legal representatives
have given adequate security for the legal disbursement of the
awards."
It is argued that this implies that the money
received by them was to be administered as assets belonging
to the estate, but we do hot think so.. It often happens that
administrators receive money which is not to be administered
as part of the general assets, but is to be distributed in a
particular way. Whether upon his general bond an administrator could be held for the performance of such speqial
duty might 'depend upon the local statutes 'of each State, and
Congress was not obliged to consider whether the ordinary
bond would cover the case, or whether a new bond would be
required, or whether additional state legislation would be
necessary. At. all events, the express language of the act
cannot be overcome by the difficulty suggested, if it be such,
and the intention of Congress in favor of the next of kin
thereby rendered liable .to be defeated.
From these considerations and by, necessary construction of
the language employed, it results that "-next of kin" as used
in the proviso means next of kin living at the date of the act.
The Court of Claims must certify that the personal representa-.
tives "represent the next of kin," and that court has properly
held that before there can be a certificate of that fact it must
appear that somenext of kin are now in existence. iootper v.
United States, 28 . C1. 480 ; Durkee v. United States, 28
C. Cl. 326. This construction is sustained by the legislation
of Congress referred to in Durkee v. United States, where two
instances are mentioned of special acts giving the fund to other
than blood relations of the original sufferers: The exceptions
prove the rule.

464:

OCTOBER TERMI, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

And we are of opinion that Congress, in order to reach the
next of kin of the original sufferers, capable of taking at the
time of distribution, on principles universally accepted as most
just and equitable, intended next of kin according to the statutes of distribution of the respective States of the domicil of
the original sufferers. In all the States real estate descends
equally to the children of the decedent, and to the issue of
deceased children taking per stirpes, and in most of them
personal estate is distributed in the same manner, the variations being immaterial here. 1 Stimson's American Statute
Law, §§ 3101, 3102, 3103, pp. 390, 391. The object of Congress was that the blood of the original sufferers should take
at the date of the passage of the act, and the statutes of distribution are uniformly framed to secure that result as nearly
as possible, the right of representation being recognized. To
hold that the meaning is nearest of blood on March 3, 1891,
might cut off many of the blood, who would otherwise take
by descent from those nearest at the ancestors' deaths, and an
intention to do this contrary to the general rule cannot be
imputed. So that in ascertaining who are to take, the fund,
though not part of the estates of the original sufferers, may
be treated as if it were, for the purposes of identification
merely.
In the construction of wills and settlements, after considerable conflict of opinion, the established rule of interpretation
in England is that the phrase "next of kin," when found in
ulterior limitations, must be understood to mean nearest of
kin without regard -to the statutes of distribution. 2 Jarman
on Wills, (5th ed.) *108, *109. This rule was followed in
Swasey v. Jaques, 144 Mass. 135, where Field, J., speaking
for the court, said: "It is certainly difficult to distinguish
between the expressions ' next of kin,' ' nearest of kin,' Inearest kindred,' and ' nearest blood relations,' and primarily the
words indicate the nearest degree of consanguinity, and they
are perhaps more frequently used in this sense than in any
other. What little recent authority there is beyond that of
the English courts supports the English view; and on the
whole we are inclined to adopt it. Redmond v. Burroughs,

BLAGGE v. BALCH.
Opinion of the Court.

63 N. C. 242; _Davenport v. Bassel, Busb. Eq. 29; Wright v.
-MethodistLpiscopal Church, Hoff. Chan. 202, 213." But the
rule does not appear to have been approved in New York and
New Hampshire. Tillman v. Davis, 95 N. Y. 17, 24 ; Pinkham v. Blair, 57 N. H. 226.
Moreover, it is settled in Massachusetts as well as elsewhere that "where a clause is fairly susceptible of two constructions also, that certainly is to be preferred which
inclines to the inheritance of the children of a deceased
child," Bowker v. Bowker, 148 Mass. 198, 203; Jackson v.
Jackson, 153 Mass. 374; and in Connecticut that, "when the
terms of a will leave the intention of the testator in doubt
the courts generally incline to adopt that construction which
conforms more nearly to the statute of distributions," Geery
v. Skelding, 62 Conn. 499, 501; Conklin v. iDavis, 63 Conn.
377. As put by Rapallo, T., in Low v. Harmony, 72 N. Y.
408, 414: "When the language of a limitation is capable of
two constructions, one of which would operate to disinherit
a lineal descendant of the testator, while the other will not
produce that effect, the latter should be preferked. An intention to disinherit an heir, even a lineal descendant, when
expressed in plain and unambiguous language, must be carried out; but it will not be imputed to a testator by implication, when he uses language capable of construction which
will not so operate."
We are not, however, dealing with wills or settlements, but
with the words "next of kin," as used in a statute, passed, in
acknowledgment of losses incurred by the ancestors, under
circumstances rendering conjecture futile as to what their
action, if exercising a volition in the matter, might be, and
where the act clearly indicates the judgment of Congress that
the next of kin for the purposes of succession generally should
be the beneficiaries as most in accord with the theory of the
appropriations.
The Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, Gardner
. larke, 20 Dist. Col. 261 ; the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, Clements' Estate, 160 Penn. St. 391, and the Circuit
Court of Baltimore County, Maryland, .efflngwell's Estate, 49
VOL. CLXH---30

OCTOBER TERAi, 1895.
Syllabus.

Phil. Leg. Int. 147, have expressed similar views to the foregoing.
The judgments are, severally, reversed, and the causes remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with
this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY

did not sit in these cases or take any part

in their decision.

WALLACE v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 781.

Submitted March 2, 1896.-Decided April 20, 1896.

W. lived on a tract of land next to one owned and occupied by his father in
law Z., concerning the boundary between which there was a dispute between them. While V. was ploughing his laud, Z., being then under the
influence of liquor, entered upon the disputed tract and brought a quantity of posts there, for the purpose of erecting a fence on the line which
he claimed. W. ordered him off, and continued his ploughing. He did
not leave, and W. after reaching his boundary with the plough, unhitched
his horses and put them in the barn. In about half an hour he returned
with a gun, and an altercation ensued, in the course of which W. was
stabbed by a son of Z. and Z. was killed by a shot from W.'s gun. W. was
indicted for murder. On the trial evidence was offered in defence, and
excluded, of threats of Z. to kill W.; and WV.himself was put upon the
stand and, after stating that he did not feel safe without some protection
against Z., and that Z. had made a hostile demonstration against him, was
asked, from that demonstration what he believed Z. was about to do ?
This question was ruled out. Held, that if W. believed and had reasonable ground for the belief that he was in imminent danger of death or
great bodily harm from Z. at the moment he fired, and would not have
fired but for such belief, and if that belief, founded on reasonable ground,
might in any view the jury could properly take of the circumstances
surrounding the killing, have excused his act or reduced the crime from
murder to manslaughter, then the evidence in respect of Z.'s threats was
relevant and it was error to exclude it ; and it was also error to refuse
to allow the question to be put to W. as to his belief based on the demonstration on Z.'s part to which he testified.

