SENECA NATION v. CHRISTY.
Syllabus.

United States had no valid title to the land, because they took
with notice of a prior conveyance to McMillan; and gave
judgment for the plaintiffs against the individual defendants,
acting under lawful authority of the United States, for the
title in an undivided third part of the land demanded, and for
joint possession of the whole; and also gave judgment against
the United States for costs, to which the United States are
never liable. The Supreme Court of the State denied a peition for a writ of error to review that judgment; the Chief
Justice of the Court of Civil Appeals refused to allow a writ
of error from this court to review it; and the allowance of
the-present writ of error was obtained from a justice of this
court.
Judgment of the Court of Civil Apleals reversed, and case
remanded to that court with instructions to dismiss the
action as against the Unaited States, and to enter judgment
,for the individualdefendants, with costs.

SENECA NATION v. CHRISTY.
RROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

No. 180.

Argued March 26, 1896.-Decided

April 18, 1096.

On the 31st day of August, 1826, the Seneca Nation by treaty and conveyance conveyed away the lauds sued for in this-action for a valuable
consideration, the receipt of which was acknowledged, but the treaty was
not ratified by the Senate or proclaimed by the President. On the 13th
of October, 1885, this action was commenced in the Supreme Court of
New York to recover a, portion of the lands so conveyed'
It 'was
brought undir the provisions of the act of May 8, 1845- c. 150, of the
Laws of New York for that year, entitled "An act for the protection and
improvement of the Seneca Indians," etc. The trial coirt gaie judgment for defendant, which judgment was sustained by the Court of
Appeals of the State on two grounds: (1) 'that the grant of August, 1826
was a valid.transaction, not in contravention of -the Constitution of the
United States, or of the Indian Intercourse Act-of 1802 ; and, (2) that

OCTOBER TERMl,

1895.

Opinion of the Court.
the right of recovery under the New York Act of 1845 was barred by the
statute of limitations. Held, that as the judgment could- be maintained(
upon the second ground1 which involved no Federal question, this court,
under the well-established rule, must be held to be without jurisdiction,
and the writ of error must be dismissed.

Tim case is stated in the opinion.
IMr. James C. Strong for plaintiff in error.
-Mr. Norris Morey for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTiCE FULLER delivered the opinion of the
court.
This was an action of ejectment brought by the Seneca
Nation of Indians against Harrison B. Christy in the Supreme
Court, Erie County, New York, to recover possession of "all
that certain piece or parcel of land situate, lying and being in
the town of Brant, county of Erie and State of New York,
and known and distinguished as being lot number twenty-five
(25) in the tract of land known as being the three thousand
eight hundred and forty acre tract taken from the Cattaraugus
Indian reservation, as surveyed by James Read, surveyor, and
commonly known as the mile strip in the said town of Brant,
and containing one hundred acres;" and for damages.
The complaint was verified December 1, 1885, and the
answer January 11, 1886. The answer consisted of a general
denial; the plea of the statute of limitations of twenty years;
and that the plaintiff had not the legal right, title, capacity
or authority to maintain the action. The case was tried upon
facts stipulated and documentary evidence.
The premises in question were part of a large tract
of land in the western part of the State of New York, the
title to which was in controversy between the States of New
York and Massachusetts prior to the adoption of the Federal
Constitution, which controversy was settled by, a compact
between those States, December 16, 1786. By that compact
the State of New York ceded, granted, released and confirmed

SENECA. NATION v. CHRISTY.
Opinion of the Court.

to the State of Massachusetts and its grantees, their heirs and
assigns forever, the right of preemption of. the soil from the
native Indians and all other estate, right, title and property
therein belonging to the State of New York, btt New York
retained the right of government, sovereignty and jurisdiction.. Massachusetts was empowered to hold treaties and conferences with the native Indians to extinguish the Indian title ;
and it was provided that that Commonwealth might grant the
right of preemption of the whole or any part of said lands and
territories to any person or persons, who, by virtue of such
grant, should have a good right to extinguish by purchase, the
claims of tle native Indians, provided that such purchase
should be made in the presence of a superintendent appointed
by Massachusetts and be approved by the Commonwealth.
This compact was duly ratified by the United States after the
adoption of the Federal Constitution.
By a treaty between the Six Nations of Indians, which
included the Senecas, and the United States, dated November 11, 1794, at Canandaigua, New York, Timothy Pickering,
acting as commissioner on behalf of the United States, (7 Stat.
44,) it was agreed that the lands of the Senecas situated in the
western part of the State of New York, described in the
treaty, (embracing the land in controversy,) "shall remain
theirs until they choose to sell to the people of the United
States who have the right to purchase."
Prior to August 31, 1826,. all the right of preemption and
title of Massachusetts in a large part of these lands had been
conveyed by sundry mesne conveyances to Robert Troup,
Thomas L. Ogden and Benjamin W. Rogers. By a treaty
and conveyance on that day the Seneca Nation, by its
sachems, chiefs and warriors, in the presence of a superintendent on behalf of the State of Massachusetts and a cornmissioner appointed by the United States, conveyed a tract
of eighty-seven thousand acres of the lands, including that in
suit, to Troup, Ogden and Rogers, for the consideration of
$48,216, acknowledged by the deed to have been in hand and
paid. This conveyance was approved and confirmed by the
State of M assachusetts, but the treaty was not ratified by

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

the Senate of the United States. or proclaimed by the President.
Soon after the making of said treaty or conveyance, Troup,
Ogden and Rogers entered into full and exclusive possession
of the lands described therein; they were divided into parcels,
sold and conveyed; extensive and valuable improvements
were made thereon; and for more than fifty years they have
been in the possession of the grantees and purchasers under
them, claiming title under the grant, and without protest, on
the part of the United States, the State or the Seneca Nation.
Defendant held title from Troup, Ogden and Rogers and their
grantees, and ect the beginning of this action was in possession,
claiming under and by virtue thereof.
In 1827 the sum of $43,050 of the consideration set forth in
the conveyance of August 31, 1846, was deposited in the
Ontario Bank at Canandaigua, New York, and afterwards,
and in the year 1855, that sum was, pursuant to section three
of an act of Congress of June 27, 1846, c. 34, 9 Stat. 20, 35,
paid into the Treasury of the United States. The interest
thereon from 1827 has been annually paid to and received by
plaintiff in error.
Plaintiff in error contended that no valid purchase was
made by the treaty of August 31, 1826, because that treaty
was not formally ratified by the Senate of the United States
and proclaimed as such by the President of the United States;
and, further, that the purchase was invalid because in contravention of the twelfth section of the act of Congress of March
30, 1802, c. 13, "to regulate trade and intercourse with the
Indian tribes." 2 Stat. 139.
This action was brought by the Seneca Nation under an act
of the State of New York of May 8, 1845, entitled "An act
for the protection and improvementof the Seneca Indians
residing on the Cattaraugus and Allegany reservations in this
State." Laws New York, 1845, p. 146, c. 150; N. Y. Rev.
Stat. (7th ed.) 295. The first section of this act reads as
follows:
"ยง 1. The Seneca Indians residing on the Allegany and
Cattaraugus reservations in this State, shall be deemed to

SENECA NATION v. CHRISTY.
Opinion of the Court.

hold and possess the said reservations as a distinct community,
and in and by the name of 'The Seneca Nation of Indians,'
may prosecute and maintain in all courts of law and equity in
this State, any action, suit or proceeding which may be necessary or proper to protect the rights and interests of the said
Indians and of the said nation, in and to the said reservations,
and in and to the reservation called the 'oil spring reservation,' and every part thereof, -and especially may maintain any
action of ejectment to recover the possession -of any part of
the said reservations unlawfully withheld from them, and any
action of trespass or on the case, for any injury to the soil of
the said reservations, or for cutting down or removing, or
converting any timber or wood growing or being thereon, or
any action of replevin for any timber or wood removed therefrom, and may maintain any action or suit as aforesaid, for
.the recovery of any damage for any injury to the common
property or rights of the said Indians, or for the recovery of
any sum of money, property or effects, due or to become due,
or belonging, or in any way appertaining to the said Indians
in common, or to the said Seneca Nation; and where such
injury has been heretofore sustained, or any such damages
have heretofore been suffered by the Indians in common, or
as a nation, actions therefor, and to recover damages for such
wrongs may likewise be brought and maintained as herein
.provided, in the same manner and in the same time, as if
brought by citizens. of this State in relation to their private
individual property and rights; and in every such suit, action
or proceeding in relation to lands -or real estate, -situated
within the said reservations, the said Seneca Nation may
allege a seisin in fee, and every recovery in such action, shall
be as and for, and in reference to a fee; but neither such
recovery or anything herein contained shall enlarge or in any
way affect the right, title or interest of the said Seneca Nation, or of the said Indians in and to the said reservations,
as between them and the grantees or assignees of the preemption right of the said reservations under the grants of
the State of Massachusetts.
The trial court directed a verdict for defendant and ren-

OCTOBER TERMN,

1895.

Opinion of the Court.

dered judgment thereon, and this judgment was affirmed by
the general term on appeal. 49 Hun, 524. The case was
carried to the Court of Appeals of New York and the judgment affirmed. 126 N. Y. 122, 147. This writ of error was
then brought.
The Court of Appeals considered the case fully on the
merits and was of opinion "that the grant of August 31, 1826,
was a valid transaction and was-not in contravention of the provisions of the Federal Constitution or of the Indian Intercourse
Act of 1802, and vested in the purchasers a good title in fee
simple absolute to the lands granted, free from any claim of
the Seneca Nation;" and also that, conceding "the invalidity
of the grant of August 31, 1826, under the Indian Intercourse
Act of 1802, nevertheless the title was subsequently confirmed
and made good by the act of Congress of 1846, authorizing
the President to receive from the Ontario Bank, and deposit
in the Treasury of the United States, the money and securities
representing the purchase money of the lands, followed by the
transfer of the fund to the United States in 1855." ' The court
further held: "We are also of opinion that as the right of the
plaintiff to sue was given by and is dependent upon the statute, chapter 150 of the laws of 1845, (see Strong v. Waterman,
11 Paige, 607,) the statute of limitations is a bar to the action.
By the act of 1845, the actions thereby authorized are .tobe
brought and maintained 'in the same time' as if brought
by citizens of the State. The question is not whether an
Indian title can be barred by adverse possession or by state
statutes of limitation. The point is that the plaintiff cannot
invoke a special ieinedy given by the statute without being
bound by the conditions on which it is given."
In Strong v. Waterman, 11 Paige, 607, it was held by Chancellor Walworth that the Indians in New York had "an unquestionable right to the use, possession and occupancy of the
lands of their respective reservations, which they have not
voluntarily ceded to the State, nor granted to individuals by
its permission; and the ultimate fee of such reservations is
vested in the State, or in its grantees, subject to such right of
use and occupancy, by the Indians, until they shall voluntarily

SENECA NATION v. CHRISTY.
Opinion of the Court.

relinquish the same;" that the right of the Seneca Nation to
the use and possession of the Cattaraugus reservation was in
all the -individuals composing the nation, residing on such
reservation in their collective capacity, and that, they having
no corporate name, no provision was made by law for bringing an ejectment suit to recover the possession of such lands
for their benefit, nor could they maintain an action at law in
the name of their tribe to recover damages sustained by them
by reason of trespasses committed on their reservations, or to
recover compensation for the use of their lands when unlawfully intruded upon, although a bill might be filed by one or
more of them in behalf of themselves and other Indians interested to protect their rights and to obtain compensation. And
see Johnson v. 3facntok, 8 Wheat. 573 ; Mfitchel v.- United
State8, 9 Pet. 711, 745; Cayuga .fation v. New York, 99
N. Y. 235.
This decision appears to have been rendered May 6, 1845,
and on the 8th of May the act was passed, the first section of
which has been quoted above.
The proper construction of this enabling act, and the time
within which an action might be brought and maintained
thereunder, it was the province of the state courts to determine. Deqaussure v. Gaillard, 127 U. S. 216; Bausermanm
v. Blunt, 147 U. S.647.
The Seneca Nation availed itself of the act in bringing this
action, which was subject to the provision, as held by the
Court of Appeals, that it could only be brought and maintained "in the same manner and within the same time as if
brought by citizens of this State in relation to their private
individual property and rights." Under the circumstances,
the fact that the plaintiff was an Indian tribe cannot make
Federal questions of the correct construction of the act and
the bar of the statute of limitations.
As it appears that the decision of the Court of Appeals was
rested, in addition to other grounds, upon a distinct and independent ground, not involving any Federal question, and sufficient in itself to maintain the judgment, the writ of error falls
within the well settled rule on that subject and cannot be
VOL. CLXI-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

maintained. Eustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361; Gillis v. Stinehfield, 159 U. S. 658.
Writ of error
dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN and MRi. JUSTICE BREWER did not
hear the argument and took no part in the consideration
and decision of this case.

DAVIS v. GEISSLER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE

DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 185.

Argued March 27, 189G.-Decided April 18, 1896.

The Circuit Court having made no certificate to this court of the question
of its jurisdiction, the writ of error is dismissed on the authority of
.aynard v. Hecht, 151 U. S. 324, and other cases cited.
-MOTION to

dismiss.

The case is stated in the opinion.

.r. E A. .Aeofata for the motion.
on his brief.
r. D. P. Stubbs opposing.
his brief.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

.Mr. W. C. Oliver was

,Mr.TI. F. Rightmire was on

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This was an action brought by plaintiffs in error, citizens
of the State of Illinois, against more than thirty defendants, alleged to be citizens of the State of Kansas, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Kansas.
The petition averred the execution by defendants of a certain
contract annexed for the payment to plaintiffs'of five thousand
dollars for the construction, erection and putting in operation
of a creamery at or near Oakley, Kansas, the contract being
signed by defendants in the form of subscriptions to stock;
performance by plaintiffs; and that they had received on

