OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD -COMPANY v.
NEVADA.

SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEVADA.
Nos. 1.10,171.. Argued March 20, 1896. - Decided April 20, 1896.

Since the passage of the act of July 10, 1886, c. 764, 24 Stat. 143, surveyed
but unpatented lands, on which the costs of survey nave not been paid,
included within a railroad land grant, are subject to taxation by the State
in which they are situated.
The nature of the taxable interest of a railroad company on such lands so
subjected to taxation, with the assent of Congress, does not present a
Federal question.
The possessory claim of the railroad company to such lands is taxable
tnder the laws of Nevada without reference to the fact that they may
be hereafter determined to be mineral lands, and so be excluded from
the operation of the grant.

Tuis case (No. 170) was an action originally begun in the
district court of Lander county by the State of Nevada against
the Central Pacific Railroad Company and its property within such county, as well as the county's proportion of its rolling stock, to recover a state tax of $5545.92, and a county
tax of $17,870.19, levied upon such road and its property for
the year 1888. The petition prayed for judgment against the
road for the amount of the tax and penalties for non-payment,
and attorney's fees, and "for such other judgment as to justice belongs."
The suit was both in rem and in personam, a statute of
Nevada providing for bringing a suit against the person to
whom the property is alleged to belong, and also against tie
property itself, and that the judgment rendered shall be against
both, and be a lien upon the property.
The railroad company answered the complaint; denied that
it owned or possessed any land subject to taxation by the
State, and disclaimed any interest in the lands described in
the complaint, other. than that derived by and through the

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. NEVADA. 513
Statement of the Case.
statutes of the United States of 1862 and 1864, granting lands
to the Pacific Railroads; and by an amendment to its answer
alleged that the costs of surveying, selecting and patenting,
said lands had never been paid to the United States, and that
the same were due and unpaid.
The suit was tried upon a stipulation as to the facts in the
following language:
"It is hereby stipulated and agreed that of the land described in the amended complaint on file herein 131,386 acres
are surveyed, but unpatented, and the same were assessed for
the year 1888 at fifty cents per acre by the assessor of said
county.
"That the patented lands embraced in said . complaint
amounted to 24,123 acres, and thQ same were assessed at $1.25
per acre for the said year by the said assessor.
"That of the lands described in said complaint 195,200 acres
are unsurveyed, 2080 acres were sold and conveyed by defendant, and 960 acres were beyond the limits of the grants to said
defendant and were" not its property, and the said lands were
assessed for. said, year by said assessor at fifty cents per acre.
"That the tax levy for said year was $3.80 on each $100.
"That the costs of surveying, selecting and conveying
122,824: acres of said surveyed unpatented lands above mentioned have not been paid.
"That said defendant has heretofore m ortgaged said lands
described in the said complaint, and has at divers times leased
various portions thereof.
"That said defendant has never had any other possession
of any part of said lands than such as may be inferred from
ekeuting said mortgages and leases and by virtue of the land
grants to it of 1862 and 18642'
The district court held that the State 'was entitled to recover
for the taxes levied'upon the pateited lands; also for the taxes
levied upon the unpatented but surveyed lands,, on which the
cosg of. surveying had not been paid; but that it was not
entitled to rec6ver for the taxes levied upon unsurveyed lands.
To that judgment the defendant excepted, stating as on6 of
its reasons for such exception that the decision and judgment
VoL. CLXn-3v

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

showed that the same were based upon the taxability of
131,386 acres of surveyed but unpatented lands, at an assessed
valuation of fifty cents per acre; while the evidence, as contained in the agreed statement of facts, showed that said
131,386 acres of surveyed unpatented lands contained and were
made up in part of 122,824 acres of land upon which the costs
due to the government of the United States for surveying,
selecting and patenting the same had never been paid.
Both parties appealed to the Supreme Court of the State
from the judgment of the district court, upon the hearing of
which appeals the judgment was affirmed. 21 . evada, 247.
From that judgment of affirmance the railroad company sued
out a writ of error from this court, assigning for error that the
Supreme Court awarded judgment to the plaintiff below for
the taxes assessed upon 122,384 acres of surveyed unpatented
lands, upon which the costs of surveying, selecting and conveying had not, at the time of such assignment, or since, been paid,
and of which the plaintiff in error had never been in possession.
The State being bound by the decision of its Supreme Court
that the 195,200 acres of unsurveyed lands were not taxable, was
not entitled, and did not attempt to sue out a writ of error.
Another action (No. 171) in all respects similar to the first,
except in the amounts claimed, was subsequently begun to
recover the taxes upon the same property for the year 1889,
and was carried to a similar conclusion.
.Afr. W/leeler H. Peckham for plaintiff in error.
I. It is essential, on the threshold of the discussion, to
clearly apprehend what is the action of the State of Nevada,
of which the plaintiff in error complains.
The statutes of Nevada, under which this action was taken,
provide as follows:
"1079. Se. 3. Every tax levied under the provisions or
authority of this act is hereby made a lien against the property assessed, . . . and shall not be satisfied or removed
until all the taxes are paid or the property has absolutely
vested in a purchaser under a sale for taxes."

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. NEVADA.

515

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

"1080. SEa. 4. All property of every kind and nature whatsoever within this State shall be subject to taxation except:
Firsmt. All lands and other property owned by the State or
by the United States, or by any county, etc., etc. Second.
Mines and mining claims; provided that nothing in this section shall be so construed as to exempt from taxation possessory claims to the public lands of the United States or of this
State, or.the proceeds of the mines, and provided further, that
nothing herein shall be so construed as to interfere with the
primary title to the lands belonging to the United States."
"1081. Sxo. 5. The term ' real estate' when used in this
act shall be deemed and taken to mean and include, and it is
hereby declared to mean and include . . . the ownership
of or claim to or possession of or right of possession to any
lands within the State, and the claim by or the possession of
any person, firm or corporation, association or company to any
land, and the same shall be listed under the head of real estate."
"1088. SEc. 12. It is the duty of the assessor to prepare
a tax list or assessment roll, in which shall be stated, among
other things, 'all real estate, including the ownership or claim
to, or possession of, or right of possession to, any land and
improvements . . . described by metes and bounds, or by
common designation or name.'
"A form is given as follows:
Tax pay er's n am e ..............................................
D escription of Property --------------------------------------Real Estate, Number of Acres
.............................
Possessory Claim, Number of Acres ------------------------Section
Number of Lot--------------Number of Block --------------Dollars.

Value of Real Estate or Possessory Claim and
Improvements.........
Value of Improvements on Real Estate or Possessory Claim Assessed to persons other than
the owners of said real estate or possessory

claim ............

Cents.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The tax statutes of the State of Nevada thus provide for
the taxing of the two separate interests in real estate, viz.:
(a) The whole estate as described on the tax list or assessment
,roll under the title ":Real Estate, Number of Acres;" and
(b) A less estate, but involving possession described on the tax
list or assessment roll under the title, " Possessory Claim,
Number of Acres."
This action was brought by. the State of Nevada on the
ground that the defendant below had a "possessory claim"
to certain lands which the proper officials of the State had
assessed for taxes and on which the defendant below had not
paid the taxes.
The answer of defendant below (after dealing with certain
allegations of the complaint as to assessment and non-payment of taxes on its roadbed, etc., and raising questions as to
the sam'e, which were satisfactorily determined by the court
below, and which are not before this court) denied that it had
any possessory claim in or to said lands, and alleged that the
only interest of defendant below in said lands was that derived
from the acts of Congress of 1862 and 1864, making certain
grants to the Pacific Railroad companies, and that as to such
lands a portion were unsurveyed and unpatented -a portion
surveyed but unpatented and costs of survey unpaid, and but
a small portion patented.
The pleadings thus presented a direct issue as to whether
the defendant below had a "possessory claim" in these lands
which could be taxed or assessed by the State of Nevada.
On that issue the only evidence is the stipulation found in
the record.
It is that the defendant never had any other possession of
any part of said lands than such as may be inferred from executing the mortgages and leases and by virtue of the land
grants.
The court below in construing the tax statute of Nevada
above recited in this case held that the terms "possessory
claims," "claim to possession or right to possession," to any
lands do not mean such right or claim when not accompanied
by actual possession.

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. NEVADA.

517

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The court says: "But such possession, to be of any validity,
must be actual and substantial. It must be an actual occupation, a complete subjugation, to the will, and control a pedig
possessio. The mere assertion of title, the casual or occasional
doing- of some act upon the premises, have never been held
sufficient.
This construction of the meaning of the words "possessory
claim," etc., in the Nevada statut.e by the highest court of
that. State, it is well settled, is binding on and will be followed
by this court; and it is the judgment in this case. Nesmith v.
Sheldon,, 7 How. 812; Fairfteldv. Gallatin County, 100 U. S.
47, and casescited on page 52; Suydam v. Williamson, 24
How. 427; Ridings v. Johnson, 128 U. S. 212, 224, and
cases cited.
In People v. Feaver, 100 U. S. 539, the rule is applied to a
state tax statute.,
This construction of the terms "possessory claims," etc.,
of course, applies, to the assessment on surveyed unpatented
lands equally with unsurveyed unpatented.
The stipulation is the same as to both classes, and it is "that
defendant below never had any other possession of any part of
said lands," referring to the whole 195,200 acres, "than such
as may be inferred from executing said mortgages," etc.
It must follow in the language of the court below that
"there is nothing to tax" unless " t he title is subject to taxation."
Now this court has held in repeated adjudications
that the title to surveyed unpatented lands on which the
costs of survey have not been paid is not subject totaxation.
Railway Co. v. Prescott,. 16 Wall. 603; Railway Co. v.
MoShane, 22 Wall. 444; NAortherm Pacific Railroadv. Traill
County, 115 U. S. 600; Ankeny v..Cla 7, 148 U. S. 34:5.
II. It appearing, then, that the State of Nevada has taxed
lands which, but, for the act of Congress of 1886, are, not
taxable, we submit that such act of Congress has not made
such lands taxable under the Nevada statutes.
,The act of Congress referred to is in these words: "That
no lands granted to any railroad corporation by any act of
Congress shall be exempt from taxation by States, ,Territories

OCTOBER TERiMf, 1895.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

and municipal corporations on account of the lien of the
United States upon the same for the costs of surveying,
selecting and conveying the same, or because no patent has
been issued therefor,' but this provision shall not apply to
lafids unsurveyed: Provided, That any such land sold for
taxes shall be taken by the purchaser, subject to the lien
for costs of surveying, selecting and conveying, to be paid in
such manner by the purchaser 'as the Secretary of the Interior
may by rule provide, and to all liens of the United States, all
mortgages of the United States, and all rights of the United
States in respect of such lands: Provided,further, that this
act shall apply only to lands situated opposite to and coterminous with completed portions of said roads and in organized counties: Provided,.further, that at any sale of lands
under the provisions of this act the 'United States may become
a preferred purchaser, and in such case the lands sold shall be
restored to the public domain and disposed of as provided-by
the laws relating thereto." Act of July 10, 1886, § 1, c. 764,
24 Stat. 143.
The opinion of the court below devotes some space to an
attempt to show that this act of Congress was accepted by
the State of Nevada, or that the act of Congress, together
with the state law, formed a sort of composite tax law under
which these lands could be taxed and sold.
It is not a question of acceptance or non-acceptance. It is
a question whether the State has power to tax what it has
taxed. In the series of decisions on the validity of state laws
taxing shares in national banks this court has definitely
settled the rule as to what is required to make valid state
tax laws taxing property subject to taxation only by act of
Congress. Bank of Commerce v. SYew York, 2 Black, 620;
Bank Tax case, 2 Wall. 200; Van Allen v. Assessors, 3 Wall.
573; People v. Weaver, 100 U. S.539. In these cases we see
how emphatic has been the view of this court that the state
law itself must contain the affirmative provisions which shall
make it conformable to the act of Congress, and that the act
of Congress cannot be relied upon to modify the state law or
to coirdinate itself with the state law.

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. 'NEVADA.

519

Opinion of the Court.

That this state tax law does not tax these lands and that
the state authorities have not taxed them in pursuance of the
act of Congress seems clear.
III. No lands granted to the Central Pacific Railroad Company can be taxed by a State prior to the issue of a patent.
The gragt to the Central Pacific Railroad excludes or reserves mineral lands--not merely the 'minerals, but mineral
lands. The right and power to ascertain which of the lands,
included within the territorial limits of the grant as fixed by
the definite location of the line of the road, are mineral and
which non-mineral is vested exclusively in the United States
administrative officers, and is conclusively proved only by the
issue of a patent.
Argument on this proposition seems unnecessary after the
decision of this court in Barden v. Nforthern Pacific Railroad,
154 U. S. 288. In the case at bar the grant of the unpatented
lands is, and remains, a float until a patent issues; for, until
then, no ond can say whether any particular acre of land
passes or not.
.Mr.Johvt 0. Chavey for defendant in error.
.Mr. Robert .M. Beatty, attorney general of the State of
Nevada, and Mr. Henry Mayenballm filed a brief for defendant in error.
MR. JUsTI-. BROWN, after stating the case, delivered' the

opinion of the court.
There appear to be within the county of Lander four
classes of lands embraced within the Pacific land grants of
1862 and 1864.
(1.) Patented lands to the amount of 24,123 acres, assessed
at $1.25 per acre, concerning the taxability of which there is
no dispute. Railway Co. v. c1Shane, 22 Wall. 444.
(2.) Unsurveyed lands to the amount of' 195,200 acres, assessed at 50 cents per acre, and held, both by the district
court and by the Supreme Court of the State, not to be sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

ject to taxation. See also act of July 10, 1886, c. 764, § 1, 24
Stat. 14:3. No question is made with regard to, the propriety
of this ruling.
(3.) Surveyed but unpatented lands, upon which the costs
of survey have been paid ; 8562 acres. These would, of course,
be subject to taxation if the following class was adjudged to
be so subject.
(4.) Surveyed but unpatented lands, upon which the costs
of survey have not been paid; 122,824 acres.
1. The principal dispute is with regard to the fourth class,
that is, unpatented lands which have been surveyed, but the
costs of which survey have not been paid. As to lands of this
class it was held by this court in Railway Co. v. Prescott, 16
Wall. 603, that, although lands sold by the United States may
be taxed before the government has parted with the legal title
by issuing the patent, this principle was to be understood as
applicable only to cases where the right to the patent is complete, and the equitable title fully vested, without anything
more to be paid, or any act done going to the foundation of
the right; and hence, where there had been a large grant to
a railroad company, if prepayment by the grantee of the cost
of surveying the lands granted be required by the statute
making the grant, before any of the lands shall be conveyed,
no title vested in the grantee, and the State could not levy
taxes on the land, and under such levy sell and make a title
which might defeat the lien of the United States. In this
particular, this case was affirmed in Railway Co. v. .fcSkane,
22 Wall. 444, 462, and Nforthern PaiFic Railroad v. Traill
County, 115 U. S. 600.
Apparently to provide for this contingency and to render
these lands subject to state taxation, Congress, on July 10,
1886, 24 Stat. 143, passed an act to provide for the taxation
of railroad grant lands and for other purposes, the first section of which enacted "that no lands granted to any railroad
corporation by any act of Congress shall be exempted from
taxation by States, Territories and municipal corporations on
account of the lien of the United States upon the same for the
costs of surveying, selecting and conveying the same, or be-

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. NEVADA.

521

Opinion of the Qourt.

cause no patent has been issued therefor; but this provision
shall not apply to lands unsurveyed: Provided, That any
such land sold for taxes shall be taken by the.purchaser subject to the lien for. costs of surveying, selecting and conveying, to be paid in such manner by the purchaser as the
Secretary of the,Interior may by rule provide and to all'liens
of the United States, all mortgages of the United States, and
all rights of the United States in respect to such lands: Providedfurther,That this act shall apply only to lands situated
opposite to and coterminous with completed portions of said
roads, and in organized counties: Providedfwrther, That at
any sale of lands under the provisions of this act the United
States -may become a preferred purchaser, and in such case
the lands sold shall be restored to the public domain and disposed of as provided by the laws relating thereto.".
In view of this statute it i§ difficult to see how these lands,
which are the very ones provided for by the statute, can
escape taxation, if the State chooses.to tax them. The argument of the railroad company in this connection is that, by
the General Statutes of Nevada upon the subject of taxation,
§ 1080, "nothing . . . shall be so construed as to exempt
from taxation possessory claims to the public lands of the
United States, or of this State.: . . . and2,rovidedfurther,
that nothing herein shall be so construed as to interfere with
the primary title to the lands belonging.to the United States ;"
that by § 1081, "the term 'real estate,' when used in this act,
shall be deemed and taken to mean and include . . . the
ownership of, or claim to, or possession of, or right of possession to any lands within the State, and the claim by or the
possession of any person, firm, corporation, association or
company to any land, and the same shall be listed under the
head of real estate;" that, by § 1088, "it is the duty of the
assessor-to prepare a tax list, or assessment roll, . . . in
which . . . shall be listed
.
.
all real estate, including the ownership or claim to, or possession of, or right of
possession to any land and improvements," etc.; that this
action was brought by the State of Nevada to subject these
lands to taxation upon the ground that the railroad company

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

had a "possessory claim" to them, which the proper officers of
the State had assessed for taxes; that the railroad company,
in its answer, denied that it had any possessory claim in or t5
said lands, and alleged that its only interest was that derived
from the land grant acts of Congress of 1862 and 1864, and
that as to said lands a portion were unsurveyed and unpatented, a portion surveyed but unpatented and costs of survey
unpaid, and but a small portion patented; that the pleadings
thus presented a direct issue as to whether the company had
a "possessory claim" in these lands, which could be taxed by
the State; that the only evidence upon such issue was the stipulation above recited, to the effect that the defendant never
had any other possession of any part of said lands than such
as may be inferred from executing said mortgages and leases,
and by virtue of the land grants; that the Supreme Court of
the State, in considering the taxing statute above recited,
held, in respect to the unsurveyed lands, that the terms
"possessory claims," "claim to possession or right to possession" to any lands did not mean such right or claim when
not-accompanied by actual possession, and hence that unsurveyed lands were not subject to taxation; that such construction of the term "possessory claims" applies to suveyed as
well as unsurveyed lands; and hence it must follow that there
is nothing to tax, unless the title is subject to taxation, and
that this court has held in the three cases above cited, that
the title to surveyed patented lands, upon which the costs of
survey have not been paid, is not subject to taxation.
It is a sufficient answer to this argument to say that, whether
the inclusion of these lands in the land grant acts of 1862 and
1864, and the subsequent mortgaging and leasing of them by
the railroad company, constituted a "possessory claim" to the
lands under the taxing laws of Nevada, is not a Federal question, but a question as to the proper construction of the words
"possessory claim," used in the state statute. It is true that,
with respect to the unsurveyedlands, the Supreme Court held
that the railroad company had no such actual and substantial
possession as would justify their taxation under the statute,
and that it does not expressly appear from the opinion that

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD .v.NEVADA.

523

Opinion of the Court.

the court put the right of the State to recover its taxes upon
the surveyed lands upon the ground that the railroad did have
a possessory claim thereto; but it does not necessarily follow
that any Federal question was thereby raised, or that any
right, title, privilege or immunity set up under a statute of the
United States was denied to it. It does explicitly appear that
authority was given by Congress to the States to tax these
lands; but whether, under the state laws, the railroad had
any taxable interest therein, or whether the decision of the
court that it had no such interest in the unsurveyed lands is
consistent with its opinion that it had such interest in the surveyed lands, is immaterial, so long as no Federal right was denied to it. 'It is perfectly obvious that no attempt was made
to tax the title of the government, and that the subjection of
these lands to taxation by the State must have rested, upon
some theory that the railroad had a taxable interest in them.
What that interest was does not concern us, so long as it appears that, so far as Congress is concerned, express authority
was given to tax the lands.
No action on the part of the State or its legislature was necessary to signify its acceptance of the authority conferred by the
Federal statute. Where a grant of lands is made by Congress
to a State for the purpose of building a railroad, it has been
customary for the State to accept such grant as authority for
the conveyance of the lands to a'designated railway company;
but where a simple power is given, no acceptance of such power
by the State is necessary as a preliminary to its exercise.
Nor, conceding chat the General Statutes of Nevada were
inoperative to authorize the taxation of these lands prior to the
act of Congress of July, 1886, was any reenactment of those
statutes necessary, since the effect of this act was merely to
remove the only obstacle to their enforcement. As was said
by this court with respect to an act of Congress declariif intoxicating liquors to be subject to the laws of each State, upon
their arrival therein, "Congress did not use terms of permission to the State to act, but simply removed an impediment
to the enforcement of the state laws with respect to imported
packages in their original condition, created by the absence of

OCTOBER .TER-f, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

a specific utterance on its part. It imparbed no power to the
State not then possessed, but allowed imported property to
fall at once upon arrival within local jurisdiction." _in Pe
Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545, 564; see also Butler v. Goreley, 146
U. S.303, 314.
While, as above stated, it does not clearly appear from the
opinion of the Supreme Court of Nevada, in this particular
case, what the distinction is as to a possessory claim between
surveyed and unsurveyed lands, there is a clear distinction in
the fact, that until lands are surveyed, it is impracticable to
identify them for the purposes of taxation. This question
had theretofore been considered by the Supreme Court of
Nevada in the case of the State v. Central Pacific Railroad,
25 Pac. Rep. 442, and probably the court, in delixering its
opinion in this case, did not deem it necessary to restate the
distinction there made. In the opinion of the court in that
case it was said: "A reason for withholding the right to tax
unsurveyed lands may be found in the fact that it is impracticable to assess them. It is a well established principle of
law that land assessed for the purpose of taxation must be
so described that it may be identified. . . . The lands
granted to the railroad company were the odd numbered sections within the limits of twenty miles on each side of the
railroad, except such as had been sold or otherwise disposed
of by the United States, or td which a homestead or preemption claim had attached, or mineral lands. Until the surveys
are made it cannot be known what parts of the land are within
the enumerated exceptions, or what sections or parts of sectiors will belong t5 the company, nor until then can the
locality of the lands be determined so that a description will
identify them. .
.
It must be borne in mind that the
unsurveyed lands are not described by metes and bounds, or
by common designation or name, but as sections and parts of
sections, and, as alleged by the complaint, 'as their designation
will appear when the surveys of the United States are extended over them.' It is plain that this is not a description
by which the identity of the lands may be established, and it
is equally plain that possession of the lands so described can-

CENTRA.L P1CfFIC RAILROAD v. NEVADA.

525

Opinion of the Court.

not be established until the surveys are made." See also
Robinson v. Forrest,29 California, 317, 325 ; -liddleton v. Low,
30 California, 596, 605; Bullock v. Rouse, 81 California, 590;
People v. -Mahoney,55 California, 286 ; .tKeane v. Cannovan,21
California, 291, 302. Evidently this course of reasoning does
not apply to lands which have been surveyed.
2. It is further claimed ihat no lands granted to this road
can be taxed prior to the issue of the patent, because the grant
excludes mineral lands; not only minerals but'mineral lands;
that the right and power to ascertain which of the lands are
mineral and which non-mineral is vested exclusively in the
officers of the government, and can be proved only by the
issue of a patent, as held by this court in Barden v. Northern
Pacific Railroad, 154 U. S. 288. It is argued that, if the
railroad company paid taxes upon these lands, it might never
own or acquire them, and the tax would consequently be paid
on property it never owned or Could own; and that, upon the
other band, if the company should not pay the taxes, and the
lands be sold under the judgment appealed from, the title to
the lands, if the assessment were valid, would pass to the purchaser, whether they were mineral or not.
But, if the railroad has a possessory claim to these lands,
they are taxable under the statute of Nevada, and it is this
and this only which the State has assumned to tax. If it has
no possessory claim, because the lands are mineral, it certainly
cannot be injured by a sale of the lands to pay the tax, and
whether the sale of such lands would pass the title or not is a
question in which the railroad company is not interested. The
company has an enormous land grant, embracing every alternate section of land within twenty miles on each side of the
road, with a reservation of mineral lands from the operation
of the act. Can it possibly have been intended that these
lands should remain wholly untaxed, until the mineral lands,
which it may be assumed represent but a very small portion
of the total grant, have been identified and excepted? Clearly
not. There is no presumption that the land is mineral, and if
it be so, and the -railroad company disclaims title to it for
that reason, it would probably be a good defence to a suit for

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

taxes. But the possibility that certain lands may turn out
to be mineral lands surely cannot be a defence to a claim for
taxes applicable to the entire grant, so long as the railroad
company lays claim to the right of the possession of such
lands.
It is true that in the .Barden case we held that mineral lands
were excluded from the operation of the Pacific Railroad land
grants, whether such minerals were known or unknown at the
date of the grant, because the statutes had excepted them
in the most unequivocal terms; but nothing was said in that
case to impugn the authority of previous cases which had held
that these grants were in prcesenti of lands to be afterwards
located. They became so located when they were surveyed.
"Then the grants attached to them, subject to certain specified
exceptions," (p. 313,) one of which was that minerals should
be discovered upon them before the issue of a patent, when as
to such lands the title of the company failed. The possibility,
however, that minerals might be discovered upon certain sections of these lands, as to which the title of the railway company might be defeasible, would not impair their title to the
great bulk of the grant, or enable the company with respect
thereto to evade its just obligations to the State. Should the
company disclaim a right to the possession of any portion of
these lands by reason of the discovery of minerals thereon,
there would remain no right to tax them under the statutes of
Nevada, but so long as the company asserts a possessory claim
to them it implies a corresponding obligation to pay the taxes
upon them. State v. Central Pacific Railroad,20 Nevada, 372.
The company has had possession of these lands for some
thirty years; has offered them for sale, and sold them as its
own, and, whenever it has been for its advantage to do so, has
claimed possession of them and dealt with them as its private
property. To assert all the rights of ownership, and at the
same time to repudiate all its obligations consists neither with
the terms of the grant nor with the dictates of natural justice.
* The act of Congress, in providing that such lands shall not
be exempted from taxation, impliedly assents to their sale, but
also guards its own right to them by providing that they shall

CENTRAL PACIFIC RAILROAD v. NEVADA.

527

Dissenting Opiniola: Field, J.

be taken by the purchaser subject to the lien for costs for surveying, to be paid in such manner as the Secretary of the Interior may provide; and- to all liens of the :United States, all
mortgages of. the United States, and all rights of the United
States in respect to such lands; and also by providing that at
any such.sale the government may-become a preferred purchaser, and in such case the lands sold shall be restored to the
public domain and disposed of as provided by the *laws relating thereto. The rights of the government with respect to
such lands are thus carefully preserved and protected.
If the company is liable for taxes upon lands which have
been surveyed, but the cost of which survey has not been
paid, afortioriit is liable, if the cost has been paid.
The decree of the court below is, therefore, in each case,
Afflrmed.
MR. JusTIcE FIELD dissenting.
I am unable to concur with my associates in affirming the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Nevada in this case, and
will state as brieflyas possible the grounds of my dissent.
The case comes before us on a writ of error to the Supreme
Court of that State, alleging error in its decision against the
Central Pacific Railroad Company, a,corporation organized
under the laws of California, but doing business and possessed
of property, real and personal, in Nevada.
That State commenced an action in December, 1888, in the
district court for Lander county in Nevada, against the Central Pacific Railroad Company, and certain described real
estate and improvements thereon, situated within the State,
belonging to that company. By the laws of Nevada, an action against a railroad company doing business and holding
property therein, may be brought against the company to recover a money judgment against it, and at the same time against
its property to obtain a judgment establishing a lien thereon
for the amount recovered against the company.
The question in the present case is whether the lands taxed
by the State are, in fact, subject to taxation. It does not
appear to me that they are thus subject, for they are not free

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

from the lien of the government or from its control and disposition. Until they are thus freed and the right of the
Central Pacific Railroad Compapy to the lands has accrued
beyond question, they are not in my judgment open to taxation as the property of such company. So long as the government retains, as it now does, the legal title to the lands,
and the control thereof with a substantial interest therein, the
lands cannot properly be treated as private property and be
subjected to taxation on that account. By the acts of Congress of July 1, 1862, and July 2, 18647, the Central Pacific
Railroad Company was invested with similar powers, conferred by them upon the Union Pacific Railroad Company,
and like grants of land were made to it to aid in the construction of its railroad and telegraph lines, and it was subjected
to the same conditions. The property taxed by Nevada as
that of the Central Pacific Railroad Company was granted
to it by Congress as above stated, and consists largely of mineral lands. But a joint resolution was passed by Congress
in January, 1864, declaring "that no act passed at the first
session of the Thirty-eighth Congress, [that being of the year
1864:,] granting lands to States or corporations to aid in the
construction of roads or for other purposes, or to extend the
time of grants heretofore made, shall be so construed as to
embrace mineral lands, which in all cases shall be and are
reserved exclusively to the United States, unless otherwise
specially provided in the act or acts making the grants." 13
Stat. 567. Attempts to subject lands, thus reserved and controlled by the government, to taxation on private account
until the government is released of all interest in the property
appears to me only as a wanton invasion upon its rights. I
therefore dissent from the judgment herein, and from the
opinion of the court pronouncing it.
MR.JusTicE BREVER and MR. JusTIcE PEcKHAm took no part
in the consideration and decision of these cases.

