BRYAN v. BRASIUS.
Statement of the Case.

of having appeared and answered in the foreclosure suit,
acknowledging the debt and consenting to the sale, are questions which we deem it unnecessary to determine. There was
another ground of defence, so conclusive and free from difficulty that we prefer to place upon it our judgment affirming
that of the court below.
It is admitted that the defendant below was a mortgagee in
possession, with his debt past due and unpaid. The plaintiff
was not offering to redeem, and had not tendered payment of
the debt, but stood on the bare legal title, subject, if the foreclosure proceeding were void, to the lien of the unpaid mortgage and t6 the right of the mortgagee to retain possession
until his debt was paid. This is the English doctrine, and it
prevails generally in the United States. Birch v. WTight, 1
T. R. 378; Simpson v. Ammons, 1 Binney, 175; fill v. Payson, 3 Mass. 559 ; Parsonsv. Welles, 17 Mass. 419 ; Brobst v.
Brock, 10 Wall. 519. Afid such, as we learn from the opinion
of the Supreme Court of the Territory of Arizona in the present case, is the law of that Territory.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of' the Territory of
Arizona is acordingly
Aflrmed.

BRYAN v. BRASIUS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME. COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.
No. 200. Submitted December 19,1895.-Dectded April 13, 1896.
A mortgagor of land cannot recover in ejectment against the mortgagee in
possession, after'breach of condition,' or against persohs holding under
the mortgagee:
An irregular judicial sale, made at the/suit of a mortgagee, even though
no bar to the equity of redemption, passes all the mortgagee's rights to
the purchaser.

I' his lifetime one Jonathan 1f. Bryan, who was the owner
of the '160 acres of land in controversy in this actioii, being the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

N. E. of section 5, T. 1 N., R. 3 E., Gila and Salt River
meridian, executed and delivered his promissory note to
Ml. W. Kales, February 23, 1883, for the sum of $2500, payable February 23, 1884, with interest iit the rate of one and
one half per cent a month. To secure the payment of the
note, on the same day he executed and delivered to Kales a
mortgage of all the said land. At that time, and also at the
time he acquired the said property, Jonathan M. Bryan was
a married man, his wife being Vina Bryan. On August 2u,
1883, Jonathan INI. Bryan died intestate, leaving Vina Bryan
his widow and sole heir; and on September 24, 1883, the said
H[. W. Kales was duly appointed administrator of his estate
by the probate court of AIaricopa County, Territory of Arizona, wherein the said land was situate, and continued in such
office until the administration was closed, December 6, 1884.
In the administration of the estate the said property was not
distributed.
On September 28, 1883, Kales brought an action in the district court of the Territory of Arizona, county of Maricopa, in
which he, AM. W. Kales, as plaintiff, sued himself, M. W. Kales,
administrator of the estate of Jonathan it. Bryan, deceased,
as defendant, and in which he asked for judgment upon the
note and foreclosure of the mortgage, and for a sale of the
mortgaged premises to satisfy the judgment. A summons was
duly issued out of the said court on October 5. 1883, and on
the same day was duly served on M. W. Kales, administrator,
the defendant named in the action, who, on the day following,
made answer, and admitted each and every allegation of the
complaint filed, and consented that judgment or decree might
be entered in accordance with the prayer thereof.
On the 9th day of October, 1883, being a day of the regular
term of the said court, the said cause came on for trial, and
the same having been tried and duly submitted, the court, on
October 16, 1883, rendered judgment against M. W. Kales,
administrator of the estate of Jonilthan AI. Bryan, deceased,
defendant, in favor of AI. W. Kales, plaintiff, for the sum of
$2670, entered a decree to foreclose the mortgage, and ordered
that the property be sold to satisfy the judgment: and on

BRYAN v. BRASIUS.
Statement of the Case.

November 8, 1883, an order for the sale of the premises was
issued out of the said court on the judgment, and delivered to
the sheriff of Maricopa County for execution.
On December 15, 1883, the sheriff, having advertised the
property for sale under the judgment for the time prescribed
by law, offered the same for sale to the highest bidder, for
cash, and sold the same to the said M. W. Kales for the sum
of $2975, that being the highest price bid, and issued to Kales
a certificate of sale therefor, which certificate, on June 13,
1884, was sold and assigned by him to one J. T. Sims for the
sum of $3500. On June 16, 1884, the sheriff executed and
delivered to J. T. Sims, the assignee of the certificate of sale,
a deed for the property, and on February 28, 1887, Sims conveyed the property to George T. Brasius.
In the meantime, Vina Bryan married one R. D. Brown, and
on June 28, 1887, she conveyed said property, by quitclaim
deed, in the name of Vina Brovn, to T. J. Bryan.
By the agreed statement of facts upon which the present
case was heard in the court below, and in which the matters
stated above are to be found mentioned, it further appears
that M. W. Kales, the plaintiff in the said suit, was the same
person as M. W. Kales, administrator, the defendant therein;
that at the time the present cause of action arose the defendants were in possession of the said property; that no part of
the property was sold by the administrator of Jonathan M.
Bryan's estate in the course of administration; that the said
note and mortgage were never paid or satisfied, unless by the
sale under the said foreclosure proceedings ; that at the said
sale made by the sheriff the.property sold for its market value ;
that immediately after the purchase of the property by J. T.
Sims, he entered into possession bhereof, and that he and those
claiming under him were still in possession of the same when
the statement of facts in this case was prepared; that Sims
and those claiming under him have, since June 16, 1884, paid
taxes upon the property, and that after that date he and they
'made valuable improvements upon the premises, which remain
thereon, without any notice of the claim of the plaintiff in this
action or his grantor, except such notice as may have been
VOL. cLix-27

OCTOBER TERVf, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

imparted by the record in the said suit; and that at the time
when Sims bought the property and paid the purchase money
therefor he did not know and had no notice that NI. W. Kales,
from whom he obtained the assignment of the said certificate
of sale, was the same person who was the administrator of the
estate of Jonathan M. Bryan, deceased, except such notice as
may have been imparted by the record aforesaid.
The present action, which was an action of ejectment to recover possession of the said property, was brought July 11, 1887,
by T. J. Bryan, the grantee, as aforesaid, of Vina Bryan, against
George T. Brasius and others, in the district court of the Second Judicial District of the Teiritory of Arizona in and for
the county of Maricopa. At the trial a jury was waived, and
the case was tried by the court. On December 2, 1890, a judgment was entered in favor of the defendant, and the plaintiff
thereupon appealed to the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Arizona, where the judgment of the said district court was
affirmed. The plaintiff then appealed to this court.
_Yr. William A. .Mclfenney, Mr. Webster Street and Mr. B.
Goodrich for appellant.
.Ar. A. C. Baker, Afr. A. H. Garland and JX'. R. C. Garland for appellees.
M . JUSTC
SHIRAS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

This case differs from che case of Bryan v. Hales just decided, in the particular that the mortgagee, Kales, is not himself the defendant, but the defendants in possession are his
alienees. The question thus presented is precisely the one that
was ruled in the case of Brobst v. Brock, 10 Wall. 519, where
this court held that a mortgagor of land cannot recover in
ejectment against the mortgagee in possession, after breach of
the condition, or against persons holding possession under the
mortgagee; and also held that an irregular judicial sale made
at the suit of a mortgagee, even though no bar to the equity
of redemption, passes to the purchaser at such sale all the rights

BRYAN v. PINNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

of the mortgagee as such. Gilberlt v. Cooley, Walker's Chancery, 494, and Jackson v. Bowen and Nef, 7 Cowen, 13.
So in Jackson v. Ainkler, 10 Johnson, 479,'it was held that
the assignee of a mortgage, in possession of the premises, is
protected by the mortgage, though no foreclosure of it was
shown, against an action of ejectment by a mortgagor.
The judgment of the court below, Bryan v. Brasius,31 Pac.
Rep. 519, was placed on this ground, and it is accordingly
Affirmed.

RRYAN v. PINNEY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME

COURT

OF

THE

TERRITORY OF

ARIZONA.
No. 199. .Submltted December 19, 1895.-Decided April 18, 1896.

Bryan v. .Brasius, ante 415,, followed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

iIr' William A. 7ffcenney, jfr. Webster Street and -Mr.B.
Goodrich for appellant.
-Mr. A. C. Baker, Mr. A. H Garland and .Mr. R. C. Garland for appellees.

Mr.

JUSTiE

SHmAs delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action of ejectment brought by T. J.,Bryan in
the district court of the Second, Judicial District of the Territory of Arizona, against D. H. Pinney,, Mary .E. Pinney, M. H.
Sherman, George H. Mitchell, George W. Maull and the Bank
rof Napa, to' recover possession of block 98 in the town of
-Phoenix, county of MIaricopa. The facts of this case, so far
as they present questions for our consideration, are similar to
those of the case of Bryan v. Brasius,just decided, and for the '
reasons there given, and on the authorities there cited, the
judgment of the Supreme.,ourt of Arizona, is

Affirmed.

