PALMER v. BARRETT.
Statement of the Case.

although the testimony affirmatively established that even if
the suppression asserted existed, it contained no provision revoking the will. The necessary effect of the action of the trial
judge in directing findings favorable to the contestees was to
hold that the contestant was not entitled to relief. In this
conclusion we concur; although the negative answers given to
the fifth and seventh questions are not literally'accurate, in the
light of the evidence as to the immaterial alterations offered
on behalf of the contestants. The judgment is, therefore,
Afirmed.

PALMER v. BARRETT"
ERROR TO THE CITY COURT OF BROOKLYN,
No. 194. Submitted Mlarch S1, 1896. -Decided

NEW YORK.

April 18, 1896.

In view of the reservation of jurisdiction made by the State of New York
in the act of June' 17, 1853, c. 355, ceding to the United States jurisdiction over certain lands adjacent to the navy yard and hospital in Brooklyn, the exclusive authority of the United States over the land .covered
by the lease, the ouster from possession under which is the subject of
controversy In this action, was suspended while the lease remained in
force.

Tis was a writ of error to the city.court of Brooklyn, an
inferior court of the State of New York. The action was
brought to recover damages for an alleged unlawful ouster
of the plaintiff from the possession of two market stands in
the Wallabout market in the city of Brooklyn, and to recover
damages for the conversion of certain described personal property which was a part of said stands. Defendant Palmer
answered by a general denial, while the defendant Droste, in
addition to specific denials, alleged in substance that he lawfully acquired the premises in controversy by a lease from
Palmer, his co-defendant, and a lessee of the city of Brooklyn.
It appeared from the proof that the stands in question were
erected upon ground, part of lands acquired by the govern-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

ment of the United States for the purposes of a navy yard
and naval hospital, and that by chapter 355 of an act of the
legislature of the State of New York, passed June 17, 1853,
that State ceded to the United States jurisdiction over the
lands acquired for the purposes stated. The statute of the
State of New York making the cession provided as follows:
"1. The jurisdiction of this State over all lands in and
adjacent to the city of Brooklyn, belonging to the United
States, and used and occupied as a navy yard and naval hospital, and which has not heretofore been ceded to the United
States, is hereby ceded to the United States for the uses and
purposes of a navy yard and naval hospital, on the condition
contained in this act, and according to the plan furnished by
the .Navy Department, and bounded as follows: . . .
"2. Such jurisdiction is ceded as aforesaid on the condition
that the United States shall pay, or cause to be paid to the
city of Brooklyn the sum of eleven thousand three hundred
and eighty-three dollars and seventy-three cents, with interest
from the first day of February, eighteen hundred and fiftytwo, until paid, being the balance of an assessment now due
on a part of said lands for grading and paving Flushing
avenue.
"
"4. The United States may retain such use and jurisdiction
as long as the premises described shall be used for the purposes for which jurisdiction is ceded, and no longer. .
Nor shall the jurisdiction so ceded to the United States impede or prevent the service or execution of any legal process,
civil or criminal, under the authority of this State.
"5. Nothing in this act contained shall be-construed so as
to allow the common council of the city of Brooklyn hereafter to tax or assess any of the lands of the United States
for any purpose whatsoever."
In October, 1884, an agreement was entered into between
the commandant of the Brooklyn navy yard, representing the
Navy Department, and a commissioner of the department
of city works of the city of Brooklyn, which agreement recited that permission was granted to the city of Brooklyn to
occupy certain described portions of "vacant." government

PALMER v. BARRETT.
Statement of the Case.

land, situated on Washington and Flushing avenues, in the
city of Brooklyn, "to be used only as a stand for the market'
wagons bringing produce into the city from the adjacent
country and those with -whom they trade; that the city of
Brooklyn will patrol and efficiently police the said premises
from the hospital Wvall on the east to the navy yard fence on
the westerly side of Washington avenue; that iro permanent
buildings or structures be erected on the lands, there being
no objection to the erection of wooden booths, sheds or other
temporary buildings for the sale of groceries, farm produce,
horse feed and other goods, for restaurant purposes, and for
the purpose of shelter from the weather; and that during the
occupancy of said premises by the city of Brooklyn the water
tax for water consumed by the navy yard be reduced to the
same rate as that charged to manufacturing establishments in
the city of Brooklyn." The agreement further provided that
the permit in question might be terminated at any time on
thirty days? notice from the Secretary of the Navy, when the
city should be -entitled .to remove all property thereon not
belonging to the United States.
At the close of the testimony counsel for defendant nroved
the court to dismiss the complaint, because of a want of jurisdiction over the subject-matter of the action. This want of
jurisdiction was based on the contention that the land upon
which the stands were erected was to all intents and purposes
territory of the United States, and that as the action Was local
in its character the courts of another sovereignty could not
entertain jurisdiction.
The motion to dismiss being denied the cause was submitted
to the jury, who found for the plaintiff. Judgment having
been entered on the verdict the cause was appealed to the
gcneral term of the court, where the judgment was affirmed.
This judgment of affirmance was subsequently affirmed by
the Court of Appeals of the State, 135 N. Y. 336, and after
the filing of the mandate in the clerk's office of the city court
of Brooklyn, a writ of error was allowed by a justice of this
court.
VOL. ci

-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. .E. Temain and Mr. M. E. Towns for plaintiffs in
error.
Mr.Hugo llirsh and Mr. Henry S. Rasquim for defendant
in error.
MR.JUSTICE WHfTE, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
Beyond the fact that the government was the owner of the
land known as the Wallabout market at the time of the passage by the legislature of the State of New York of the act
of June 17, 1853, the record does not disclose when or how
the government acquired title to the land. Counsel for plaintiffs in error, however, say that the following act of Congress, approved March 3, 1853, c. 102, 10 Stat. 220, 224, relates to this land:
"For the purpose of paying the lien existing on the lands
recently purchased as an addition to the navy yard at Brooklyn, twelve thousand two hundred and forty-seven dollars and
five cents, to be paid by the Secretary of the Navy, if upon
examination he shall find the same to be due as a lien on the
purchase of the said land: and the Secretary of the Navy is
hereby empowered and directed to sell and convey to any
purchaser all that part of the navy yard lands at Brooklyn
between the west side of Vanderbilt avenue and the hospital
grounds, containing about twenty-six and a half acres, including Vanderbilt and Clinton avenues: Provided, That said
lands shall not be sold at less price than they cost the government, including interest with all assessments and charges:
And provided further, That prior to the sale of said lands
exclusive jurisdiction shall be ceded to the United States of
all the remaining lands connected with the said navy yard,
belonging to the. United States."
This act rather tends to make certain what would be inferable from the New York statute, that the land in question
had been purchased by the United States without the consent
of the State being given at the time the purchase was made.
If, therefore, we assume that the lands were acquired by the

SPALMER v. BARRETT.
Opinion of, the Court.

government by purchase, still section 8 of article 1 of the
Constitution of the United States, conferring upon Congress
authority to exercise exclusive legislation over all places purchased by the consent of the legislature ofthe State in which
the same shall be, for the erection of forts, magazines, arsenals,
dock-yards and other needful buildings, has no application.
Fort Leavenworth Rail'oad v. Lowe, 114 U., S. 525. The
question therefore' depends uponf the :provisions of the act of
the legislature of the State of New York, already referred to,
by which jurisdiction was ceded to the United States. Looking at that act, we find that it was "for the uses and purposes
of a navy yard and' naval hospital," and that it was therein
expressly provided f"that the United States may retain such
use and jurisdiction as longas the premises described shall be
used for the purposes for which jurisdiction is ceded, and no
longer.
.
Nor shall the jurisdiction so ceded to the
United States impede'or prevent the service or execution of
any legal process, civil or criminal, 'under the authority of
this State." The power of the State to impose this, condition
is clear. In speaking of a condition placed by the State of
Kansas on a cession of jurisdiction made by. that State to the
United States over land held by the United States for the
purposes of a military reservation, this court said in Fort
.LeavenworthRailroadv. Lowe, (p. 539,) supra: "It not being
a case where exclusive legislative authority is vested by the
Constitution of the United States, that cession could be accompanied with such conditions as the State might see fit to
annex, not inconsistent with the free and effective use of the
fort as a military post."
Now, the land in question here was clearly not used by the
United States and occupied by it for a navy yard or naval
hospital. 'On the contrary, it composed 'a part of 'the 'vacant
land adjoining the navy yard, which had been leased by the
United States to the city of Brooklyn for market purposes.
The lease contained a specific proviso that.the grounds should
be patrolled and policed by the city authorities. Mot'eover,,a
direct consideration was received by the United States for the
lease, since it provided that a supply of. water for all the

OCTOBER TERM4, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

purposes of the navy yard at reduced rates should be furnished
by the city to the United States during the use by the former of the land covered by the lease. In the absence of any
proof to the contrary, it is to be considered that the lease was
valid, and that both parties to it received the benefits stipulated in the contract. This being true, the case then presents
the very contingency contemplated by the act of cession, that
is, the exclusion from the jurisdiction of the United States of
such portion of the ceded land not used for the governmental
purposes of the United States therein specified. Assuming,
without deciding, that, if the cession of jurisdiction to the
United States had been free from condition or limitation, the
land should be treated and considered as within the sole jurisdiction of the United States, it is clear that under the circumstances here existing, in view of the reservation made by the
State of New York in the act ceding jurisdiction, the exclusive
authority of the United States over the land covered by the
lease was at least suspended whilst the lease remained in force.
These views dispose of the only Federal question which the
case presents, and the judgment below is, therefore,
Affirmed.

KELSEY v. CROWTHER.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 74. Submitted November 18, 1895. -Decided

April 18,1896.

In a bill to compel specific performance of a contract for the sale and purchase of a tract of land, it is absolutely necessary for the plaintiff to tender
performance and payment of the purchase money on his part; and this
rule is still more stringent when applied to the case of an optional sale.

LEwIs P. Kelsey and James K. Gillespie filed their second

amended complaint in this case in the district court of the
Third District of the Territory of Utah, December 13, 1888,
against William J. Crowther, John T. Lynch and William
Glasmann, alleging that on or about September 12, 1887,

