CRAIN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

CRAIN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 551. Submitted March 3, 196.-Decded April 20, IS90.
One count in an indictment may refer to matter in a previous count so as
to avoid unnecessary repetition; and if the previous count be defective
or is rejected, that circumstance will not vitiate the remaiuiiig counts,
if the reference be sufficiently full to incorporate tile matter going before with that in tile count in which.the reference is made.
A count ill an indictment which charges that the defendant did certain
specified things, and each of them, the doing of which and of each of
which was prohibited by statute, and also that he caused the doing of
such tilings and of each of them, is not defective so as to require that
judgment upon it be arrested ; and there may be a verdict of guilty upon
proof that tile accus.ed had done any one of the things constituting a
substantive crime under the statute.
A record which sets forth an indictment against a person for the commission of an infamous crime; the appearance of the prosecuting attorney;
the appearance of tile accused in person and by his attorney; au order
by the court that a jury come "to try the issue joined;" tie selection of
a named .juryfor the trial of the cause, who were "swori to try tile Issue
joined and a true verdict render;" the trial; tile retirement of tile jury;
their verdict finding the prisoner guilty; and the judgment entered
accused was
thereon in accordatice therewith; does not show thai'the
ever formally arraigned, or.that he pleaded to the indictment, and the
conviction must be sbt aside; as it is better that a prisonershould escape
altogether than that a judgment of co'nviction of an infamous crime'
'should be sustained, where the record does not clearly show that there
was a valid trial.

THIS writ of error brought up for review a judgment in the

District Court of the United States for the Western District
of Arkansas, by which the plaintiff in error was sentenced to
imprisonment in the House of Correction at Detroit, Michigan,
at hard labor, for the term of three years.
The defendant was indicted under section 5121 of the Revised Statutes, which provides: "Every person who falsely
makes, alters, forges or counterfeits; or causes or procures to
be falsely made, altered, forged or counterfeited; or willingly
VOL. CLX=-40

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

aids or assists in the false making, altering, forging or counterfeiting, any deed, power of attorney, order, certificate, receipt
or other writing, for the purpose of obtaining or receiving, or
of enabling any other person, either directly or indirectly, to
obtain or receive from the United States, or any of their officers or agents, any sum of money; or who utters or publishes
as true, or causes to be uttered or published as true, any such
false, forged, altered or counterfeited deed, power of attorney,
order, certificate, receipt or other writing, with intent to defraud the United States, knowing the same to be false, altered,
forged or counterfeited; or who transmits to, or presents at,
or causes or procures to be transmitted to, or presented at, any
office or officer of the government of the United States, any
deed, power of attorney, order, certificate, receipt or other
writing, in support of, or in relation to, any account or claim,
with intent to defraud the United States, knowing the same
to be false, altered, forged or counterfeited, shall be imprisoned at hard labor for a period of not less than one year nor
more than ten years; or shall be imprisoned not more than
five years and fined not more than one thousand dollars."
The indictment contained three counts. The first count set
out in full a declaration purporting to have been made by one
Spahiga, a resident of the Creek N~ation, in the Indian Territory, for an invalid pension, to which was appended a certificate or statement purporting to have been made by two
persons named Marrel and Fixico, to the effect that they were
present and saw Spahiga sign his name or make his mark to
said declaration, and that they had every reason to believe
that he was the identical person that he represented himself
to be. The declaration and accompanying certificate or
statement purported to have been sworn to on the 4th day of
August, 1892, before "A. W.. Crain, U. S. Comm'r, Pension
Notary."
The second count charged: "That herefore, to wit, on the
4th day of August, A.D. 1892, one Spahiga is alleged to have
executed a certain declaration and affidavit; said declaration
and affidavit are in words and figures as set out in the first
count of this indictment, and said declaration and affidavit

CRAIN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

purporting to be executed before one A. W. Crain, United
States commissioner in the Creek Nation, in the Indian Territory, the said; Spahiga claiming in said declaration a pension
from the United States as soldier of war of rebellion, who in
said declaration was alleged to have enlisted under the name
of Spahiga, at -,on the 12th day of August, 1863, Company
D, First Regiment, Indian Home Guards, Indian Territory;
in the war of the rebellion; said declaration and affidavit,
after being so made, executed and falsely counterfeited and
forged by said Alex. W. Crain, was by said Alex. W. Craili
forwarded, with intent to defraud the United States and to
obtain certain moneys from the United States, to the office
of the Commissioner of Pensions, in the Department of the
Interior, at the city of Washington, in the District of Columbia, where the same was duly filed on the 12th day of August,
1892, as a claim against the Government of the United States
for a pension by the said Spahiga, as soldier aforesaid, as
aforesaid, and being so filed for approval by the said A. W.
Grain, in the office aforesaid, by the Commissioner of Pensions,
and the said affidavit and declaration being material on the
question pending before said Commissioner of Pensions as to
whether the said Spahiga was by the laws of the United States
entitled to a;pension. And. the jurors aforesaid upon their
oaths aforesaid do further present that on the 4th day of
August, 1892, at the Creek Nation, Indian Territory, and
within the Western District of Arkansas, at which date said
declaration, affidavit and claims were prepared and made for
filing in the office of the Commissioner of Pensions, as aforesaid, the same being an office of the United States, for the
purpose aforesaid, one Alex. W. Grain did make, execute and
forge, and cause, to be made, executed, and forged, a certain
pretended and false affidavit, or the same may be called a
certificate, the same being one and the same paper, and being
in form and substance as hereinafter set out, which said forged,
false and counterfeited affidavit or certificate was fraudulent,
and was a part of the said declaration and, affidavit above
mentioned, and was forwarded, together with the said declaration, to the -office of the Commissioner of Pensions aforesaid

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

for the purpose of defrauding the United States and of aiding
and abetting the said Spahiga to obtain the approval of the
said Commissioner of Pensions to his said claim for a pension
as aforesaid, for the purpose of aiding the said Spahiga, fraudulently to obtain money from the United States; which said
pretended and false affidavit and certificate is in substance set
out in the first count of this indictment. The said pretended
affidavit and certificate and .declaration were forged, false and
fraudulent, and did contain fraudulent and fictitious statements, as the said A. W. Grain well knew, in this: That
Pahose Marrell, Spahiga and Nokos Fixico did not sign said
pretended affidavit and certificate, declaration and affidavit,
as set forth in said false certificate and affidavit, and said
Pahose Marrell, Spahiga, and said Nokog Fixico were not
sworn as to the truth of thq matters and things set forth in
said pretended declaration, affidavit and certificate, but in
truth and fact the said A. W. Grain did knowingly and wilfully, feloniously and falsely make, counterfeit, forge and
cause to be made, counterfeited and forged the names of
Pahose Marrell, Spahiga and -Nokos Fixico to and upon the
said false and forged affidavit and certificate with intent to
defraud the United States and to aid the said Spahiga in
obtaining money fraudulently from the United States, and
that the said A. W. Grain did not swear the said Pahose
.Marrell, said Spahign, and the said Nokos Fixico as to the
truth of the matters and things set forth in said declaration,
affidavit and certificate, contrary to the form of the statute
in such case made and provided, and against the peace and
dignity of the United States of America."
The third count charged "that A. W. Grain, on the 4th day
of August, A.D. 1892, at the Greek Nation, in the Indian
country, within the Western District of Arkansas aforesaid,
unlawfully and feloniously did transmit to the office of the
Commissioner of Pensions of the United States, the same
being an office under the government of the United States,
and for the purpose of defrauding the United States, the false
and forged instrument of writing set out in the first count of
this indictment, contrary," etc.

CRAIN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

The record of the trial in the trial court, omitting captions,
was as follows-:
"FRIDAY, NWovember 7, 1890.
"On this day come the United States of America, by Jas. F.
Read, Esq., attorney for the western district of Arkansas, and
come, the said defendant, in his own proper person and by his
attorney, Win. It. Mellette, Esq., and on motion of plaintiff,
by its attorney, it is ordered by the court that a jury come to
try the issue joined ; whereupon the following were selected
for the trial of this cause, to wit, [naming them] twelve good
and lawful men of the district aforesaid, duly selected, empanelled, and sworn to try the issue joined and a true verdict
render according to the law and the evidence, and, after hearing the evidence and argument of counsel and receiving the
charge of the court, retired to consider of their verdict, and after
a short time returned into court the following veidict, to wit:
"We, the jury, find the defendant, A. W. Orain, guilty as
charged in the first, second, and third counts of the within
indictment.
"J.. L. MCCONNELL, FIoreman."
(Signed)

"Whereupon, by order of the court, the jury was discharged
from the further consideration of the case and the said defendant committed to the custody of the marshal to await final
sentence.
"MomDAY, -NTov. 12, 1894.
"On this day comes the said defendant, by his attorney, and
files his motion for arrest of judgment herein."
That motion was as follows:
"Now comes the defendant and moves the court to arrest
the judgments on the verdict of the jury rendered on the
three counts herein for the following reasons, and to set aside
said verdicts:
"1st. Because the first count of the indictment upon which
said verdict was rendered is defective in substance, in this,
that it does riot state in what particular the affidavit, declaration or certificate set forth therein is forged, and traverses
the same.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

"2d. Because said indictment does not state which declaration, certificate or affidavit therein set forth is false, there
being two such documents.
"3d. Because the first count of said indictment does not
allege that defendant knew that the document set forth
therein was false.
"14th. Because said first count charges no act which is a
crime or misdemeanor under the laws of the United States.
"5th. Because the second'count in said indictment is double,
containing and including three distinct offences therein, to
wit: That the defendant forwarded to the Pension Department of the United States two separate and distinct affidavits
or declarations or certificates for the purpose of defrauding
the United States, and that the defendant did falsely make,
counterfeit and forge and cause to be, made, counterfeited
and forged a certain pretended and false affidavit or certificate for the purpose of defrauding the United States and obtaining money from the United States.
"6th. Because the second count of said indictment does
not set out with sufficient certainty the affidavit, certificate or
declaration alleged therein to have been falsely made, forged
and counterfeited and unlawfully forwarded to the office of
the Commissioner of Pensions.
"7th. Because the said count is not complete within itself,
but in an indefinite and uncertain manner refers to a document contained and set forth in the first count of said indictment.
"8th. Because the second count of said indictment is indefinite and misleading, in this, that it alleges that the names of
Pahose Mahlah, Spahiga and Nocus Fixico were forged to
one and the same document, as set out in the first count of
the indictment, which is not a fact.
"9th. Because said second count does not state in what particular the affidavit or declaration or certificate set out therein
is false and was forged.
"10th. Because the said second count does not in a legal
manner charge any offence against the laws of the United
States.

CRAIN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

"11th. Because the third count of said indictment is defective
in substance, in this, that it does not state in what particular
the affidavit or instrument of writing therein referred to as
being set out in the first count of said indictment is false and

forged.
"12th. Because the reference made in said third count to an
instrument of writing set forth in the first count is indefinite
and uncertain.
"13th. Because said third count does not state which instrument of writing set forth in the first- count was unlawfully forwarded to the Pension Office.
"1 th. Because the third count of said indictment does not
state that the defendant knew that the instrument of writing alleged to have been unlawfully forwarded to the Pension
Office was false and forged.
"'15th. Because said third count charges no act which is a
crime under the laws of the United States.
"Wherefore defendant prays that he be discharged."
On the 28th of December following the court sustained the
motion for arrest of judgment as to the first and third counts,
and overruled it as to the second count. The record then
proceeds:
"On motion of Jas. F. Read, Esq., attorney for the western
district of Arkansas, the said defendant, A. W. Crain, was
brought to the bar of the court in custody'of the marshal of
said district, and, it being demanded of him what hc has or
can say why the sentence of the law upon the verdict of
guilty (second count) heretofore returned against him by the
jury in this cause on the 9th day of Nov., A.D. 1894, shall not
now be pronounced against him, he says he has nothing further or other to say than he has heretofore said."
The court then sentenced the prisoner to imprisonment at
hard labor for three years.. On the 22d day of January, 1895,
the following entries appear in the record.
"Now comes defendant, Alex. W. Orain, by his attorney, Win.
M. Mellette, Esq., and tenders this his bill of exceptions.in the
above entitled cause and asks that the same be signed and made
a part of the record in this case, which is accordingly done.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

"Also at the same time presents his assignment of errors,
which is ordered filed.
"Also at the same time presents his petition asking for writ
of error to the Supreme Court of the United States, which
petition is ordered filed and writ of error ordered issued."
The exception was to the overruling the motion in arrest of
judgment as to the second count of the indictment.
The assignments-of error were: (1) That it was error to
overrule the motion in arrest of judgment upon the conviction
upon the second count of the indictment; (2) That it was
error to render judgment against the defendant upon the verdict of guilty on that count, and to sentence him to imprisonment thereon.
In the brief for the plaintiff in error in this court it was
said: "The plaintiff in error was not given an opportunity
to plead to the indictment before being put upon his trial,
never having been arraigned, as is fully shown by an inspection of the printed record. An arraignment is essential to a
valid trial."
.Mr.
A. H. Gdrland and fr. R. C. Garland for plaintiff
in error.
_Mr. Assistant Attorney General Whitney for defendants in

error.
MR.JUZTIcE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

The transcript before the court must be taken to be as
certified, namely, a true and complete copy of the record
and proceedings in this case.
It appears from the first
order of record in the trial court that the defendant came
"in his own person, and by his attorney;" that, on motion
of the United States, by its attorney, it was "ordered by the
court that a jury come to try the issue joined;" that a jury
was, selected, empanelled and sworn "to try the issue joined,
and a true verdict render according t6 the law and the evidence;" and that the jury found the defendant "guilty as

CRAIT v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

charged in the first, second and third counts -of the within
indictment."
The defendant moved, upon written grounds filed, to arrest
the judgment, and to set aside the verdict. The grounds of
that motion all related to the sufficiency of the.several counts
of the indictment. The motion was overruled as to the
second count, and sustained as to the first and third.
The defendant, on a subsequent day, tendered his bill of'
exceptions, embodying the motion in arrest of judgment,
with the grounds therefor, and at the same time presented
an assignment-of errors.
-The errors assigned by him in the court below, and made
part of the record, were: 1. The ov.erruling of the motion in
arrest of judgment upon the conviction on the second count
of the indictment. 2. The rendering of judgment upon the
verdict of guilty on that count, and the sentence of imprisonment.
When the accused was brought into court, after verdict,
it was demanded of him what he had or could say why the
sentence of the law upon the verdict of guilty on the second
count should not be pronounced against him. He replied
that he had nothing further to say than he had theretofore
said.
1. One of the objections made to the second count-was
that it was incomplete, and referred in an uncertain, indefinite manner to documents, set forth in the first count. The
reference to the declaration and affidavit set forth in: the first
count indicated the documents that were intended to be incorporated, by reference, into the second count; and this
reference was not affected by the fact that the first codnt
was defective, or by the fact that judgment upon that count
was arrested. One count may refer to matter in a previous
count so as to avoid unnecessary repetition; and if the previous count -be defective or-is rejected, that circumstance will
not vitiate the remaining counts if the reference be sufficiently full to incorporate the matter going. before with that
in the count in which the reference is made. Blitz v. United
Sates, 153 U. S.308, 317.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opiniou of the Court.

2. It is said- that the second count charges three separate,
distinct felonies, and is, therefore, materially, defective within
the rule that two offences cannot be charged in the same
count. 1 Archbold's Cr. Pr. & P1. 95; 1 Bishop's Cr. Pro.
§ 432. Undoubtedly the section of the Revised Statutes,
under which the indictment was framed, embraces several
distinct acts, the doing of either of which is punishable. It
is prohibited either to falsely make, alter, forge or counterfeit, or to cause to be falsely made, altered, forged or counterfeited, any deed, power of attorney, order, certificate, receipt
or other writing for the purpose of obtaining, recovering or
enabling any other person, either directly or indirectly, to
obtain or receive, from the United States any sum of money.
It is also prohibited to any person to transmit, or present
at, or cause or procure to be transmitted to or presented
at, any office or to any officer of the government, any deed,
power of attorney, order, certificate, receipt or other writing,
in support of or in relation to, any account or claim with the
intent to defraud the United States, knowing the same to be
false, altered, forged or counterfeited.
The second count
charged, in substance, not only that the defendant did things
and each of them, the doing of which or either of which the
statute prohibited, but also that he caused the doing of such
things and of each of them. Was the count, thus drawn, so
defective as-to require that judgment upon it be arrested?
In 1Rex v. llnt, 2 Camp. 583, the question was whether a
defendant might be found guilty upon a count in an information, charging him with -having composed, printed and published a libel, if it were proved that he simply published but
did not compose it. Lord Ellenborough held that it was
enough to prove publication. "If an indictment," he said,
"charges that the defendant did and caused to be done a particular act, it is enough to prove either. The distinction runs
through the whole criminal law, and it is invariably enough
to prove so much of the indictment as shows that the defendant has committed a substantive crime therein specified."
Chitty says: "If an indictment charge-that the defendant did,
and caused to be done, a particular act, it is enough 'to prove

CRAIN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

either. Thus, under an indictment for forgery, stating that
the defendant forged, and caused to be forged, it suffices to
prove either." 1 Chitty's Or. Law, 251; Star~re's (Jr. Pl. 339.
In Rasnick v. Commonwealth, 2 Virginia Cases, 356, it was
held that an indictment charging the defendant with the
making of certain base coin, of causing and procuring such
coin to be made, and of assisting in making it - three distinct
offences set out in one count - was sufficient to authorize judgment upon a general verdict of guilty.
So, in Commonwealth v. Tuck, 20 Pick. 356, it was adjudged
that a count in an indictment, alleging that the defendant
broke and entered a shop with intent to commit larceny, and
did there commit larceny, was not doable. In that case, doubt
was expressed whethor the objection that an indictment, containing one count, and embracing more than one offence, could
be taken advantage of in arrest or on error - the court observing that the better opinion was that it cannot, and that the
appropriate remedy of the accused, in order to avoid the inconvenience and danger of having to meet several charges at
the same time, is a motion to quash the indictment or to confine the prosecutor to some one of the charges. In another
case, arising under a statute of Massachusetts making it an offence to set up or promote certain exhibitions, without license
therefor, an indictment, containing a single count, and charging that the defendant set up and promoted a certain exhibition, was sustained against the objection of duplicity. Commonwealth v. Twitchell, 4 Oush. '74.
Under a statute of New Tersey, making it an offence to
burn or cause to be burned any barn, not parcel of a dwelling
house, an indictment, containing one count, charging that the
defendant "burned and caused to be burned," etc., was sustained by the Supreme Court of New Jersey in State v. Price,
6 Halsted, pp. 203, 215. Among other authorities the court
cited Starkie, who says: "It is the usual practice to allege
offences cumulatively, both at common law and under the
description contained in penal statutes; as that the defendant
published and caused to be published a certain libel; that he
forged and caused to be forged," etc. Starkie's Or. Pl 271.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

So, under a statute of Pennsylvania, making it an offence
for supervisors of highways to neglect to open o, repair a public highway, it was held proper to charge in ofie count the
neglect to open and repair such highway, the court observing
that the offences of not opening and not repairing were of the
same character and description, if indeed they were distinct.
Edge v. Commonwealth, 7 Penn. St. 275, 278.
We are of opinion that the objection to the second count
upon the ground of duplicity was properly overruled. The
evil that Congress intended to reach was the obtaining of
money from the United States by means of fraudulent deeds,
powers of attorney, orders, certificates, receipts or other
writings. The statute was directed against certain defined
modes for accomplishing a general object, and declared that
the doing of either one of several specified things, each having
reference to that object, should be punished by imprisonment
at hard. labor for a period of not less than five years nor more
than ten years, or by imprisonment for not more than five
years and a fine of not more than one thousand dollars. We
perceive no sound reason why the doing of the prohibited
thing, in each and all of the prohibited modes, may not be
charged in one count, so that thdre may be a verdict of guilty
upon proof that the accused had done any one of the things
constituting a substantive crime under the statute. And this
is a view altogether favorable to an accused, who pleads not
guilty to the charge contained in a single count; for a judgment on a general verdict of guilty upon that count will be a
bar to any further prosecution. in respect of any of the matters
embraced by it.
3. But an objection is made to the proceedings in the
court below which is of a serious character.
The record does not show that the accused was ever formally arraigned, or that he pleaded to the indictment, unless
all that is to be inferred simply from the order, made at the
beginning of the trial and as soon as the accused appeared,
reciting that the jury were selected,. empanelled and sworn
"to try the issue joined," and from the statement in the bill of
exceptions that the jury were "sworn and charged to try the

CRAIN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of tb6 Court.

issues joined."

What that issue was is not disclosed by the

record.
The-Government does not, in terms, claim, that it was unnecessary for the defendant, to plead to the indictment. But
it assumes (although the record does not state such to bethe
fact) that the defendant pleaded not guilty, and contends that
the omission to record that plea is only a clerical error which
did not prejudice his substantial rights.
By sectipn 1025 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States it is declared that "no indictment found and presented
by a grand jury in any District or Circuit or other court of the
United States shall be deemed insufficient, nor shall the trial,
judgment or other proceeding thereon be affected by reason
of, any defect or imperfectip in matter of form only, which
shall not tend to the prejudice of the .defendant."
Is it a matter of form. only whether the accused pleads or
does not plead to an indictment for an infamous crime? If it
be not a matter of form, then it would seem that, if convicted,
the fact that the accused did'plead should clearly appear from
the record, and not be left to mere inference arising from 4
general recital that the jury was sworn to try and did try "the
issue joined," without stating what vas such issue. While, as
said in Pointer v. United States, 151 U. S. 396, 4.19, all parts
of the record are to be interpreted together, so that, if possible,
effect be given to all, and a deficiency in one part of it supplied by what appears elsewhere, it was there held, that "the
record of a criminal case must state what will airmatively
show the offence, the steps without which the sentence cannot
be good, and the sentence itself."
.In capital or other infamous crimes ain arraignment has
always been regarded as a matter of, substance. "The arraignment of the prisoner," Lord Coke said, "is to take order
that lie appear, and for the certainty ofthe person to hold up
his hand, and to plead a sufficient plea to the indictment or
other record." Co. Litt. 263g.
According to Sir Matthew Ile, the ,arraignment consists
of three parts, one of which, after he prisoner has been called
to the bar, and informed of the charge against him, is, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

"demanding of him whether he be guilty or not guilty; and
if he pleads not guilty, the clerk joins issue with hiin cul.
and enters the prisoner's plea; then he demands how
fprist,
he will be tried, the common answer is, by God and the
,country, and thereupon the clerk enters po. 8e, and prays to
God to send him a good deliverance." 2 Hale's Pl. Or. 219.
So, in Blackstone: "To arraign is nothing else but to call the
person to the bar of the court to answer the matter charged
upon him in the indictment." "After which [after the indictment is read to the accused] it is to be demanded of him
whether fe is guilty of the crime whereof he stands indicted,
or not guilty." 4 Bl. Com. 322, 323 to 341. Chitty says:
"The proper mode of stating the arraignment on the record
is in this form, ' and being brought to the bar here in his own
proper person, he is committed to the marshal,' etc. And
being asked how he will acquit himself of the premises (in
case of felony, and of ' the high treasons,' in case of treason)
'above laid to his charge, saith,' etc. If this statement be
omitted, it seems the record will be erroneous." 1 Chitty's
Cr. Law, *419.
The importance attached to the proper arraignment of one
accused of felony, including the demand upon him to plead to
the indictment, was illustrated in Commonwealth v. Hardy, 2
Mass. 303, 316. That was a case of murder. The accused
was arraigned before one of the justices of the Supreme
Judicial Court of Massachusetts. He pleaded not guilty, and
put himself for trial upon the country. The pled was recorded, and counsel was assigned to him at his own request.
On a subsequent day the prisoner was brought into court,
three justices being present, and the clerk having been
directed to arraign him, he informed the court, that the
prisoner had been arraigned and had pleaded not guilty.
The prisoner madp no objection to proceeding, and he was
convicted. The question arose whether the conviction was
valid under a statute then in force which provided that "all
indictments which may be found for any capital offence shall
be heard, tried and determined exclusively in the courts which
are to be holden pursuant to the second section hereof by

CRAIN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

three or more of the said justices." Chief Justice Parsons
said: "We are all of opinion that the power of hearing,
trying and determining an indictment for a capital offence
includes a power to arraign a prisoner, and to record his plea.
It is therefore one of the powers which the court, when holden
by one judge, is restrained from exercising. Consequently the
arraignment of a prisoner, and his plea, were not coram
judice." Again: "No possible inconvenience has resulted to
the prisoner from the proceedings in this case. His plea, that
was recorded, was the most favorable plea he could have
pleaded; and when the jury was called, he made no objection
to proceed in the trial of his issue, but assented by making his
challenges.. But an objection, founded in a want of jurisdiction, however small, and from which no inconvenience has
arisen, is not, in capitalcases, taken away, by an implied assent."
In Grigg v. People, 31 Michigan, 471, which was an indictmeht for larceny, the record did not show that the accused
had been arraigned or that any plea was made or entered of
record. Nevertheless, he -was convicted and sentenced to the
House of Correction. The court, speaking by Chief Justice
Graves, (Justices Cooley and Campbell concurring,) said: "The
attorney general, whilst admitting that an arraignment and
plea were* indispensable, as of course they were, submits to
the court whether, in the absence of any express matter in
the record as returned to show the contrary, it ought not to
be intended that both proceedings were actually had. An
arraignment and plea being steps imperatively required, the
recital of them, if they were taken, was a necessary ingredient
of the record." The judgment was reversed, that the. accused
might be lawfully arraigned or otherwise dealt with agreeably
to law.
The Supreme Court of Wisconsin, in a case of misdemeanor,
said: "'The record in this case fails to show any issue which
the jury was called upon to try. It is the business and the
duty of the prosecuting officer of the government to move on
the trial of criminal cases and to see that the proper issue be
made up. It may be probable that the defendant in this case
was perfectly aware of the offence with which he wvas charged.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

It appears that he consented to go to trial.. But a trial of
what did he consent to? lie was arrested and held in custody
under the process of the court. It was his right to be informed, and it was the duty of the government to inform him
of the accusation against him. This is done by arraignment
and requiring the defendant to plead. It is true, this right
of arraignment may, in minor offences, be waived, but.a plea,
an issue, is absolutely essential. Nor can we supply an issue
corresponding to the verdict when the record is entirel silent
on the subject." Douglass v. State of lWisconsin, 3 Wisconsin,
715, 716.
In People v. Corbett, 28 California, 328, 330, it appeared
that the defendant, indicted for grand larceny, asked, when
brought into court, a separate trial, which was granted; the
jury was empanelled; witnesses were introduced by him; the
case was argued by his counsel, and the jury, having .been
charged by the court, returned a verdict of guilty. The Supreme Court of California said: "If the defendant had at any
time, anterior to the trial, plead not guilty, the defects in the
arraignment, or rather the omission to arraign, might have
been cured on the ground of waiver. But neither the motion.
of defendant for a separate trial, nor the introduction of witnesses by him, nor the fact that the case was argued on his
behalf to the jury, nor did all of them combined, cure the
want of a plea. There was not only no arraignment, but over
and beyond that there wag no issue for the jury to try. Not
only did the defendant not plead, but inasmuch as the statute
opportunity for pleading was never extended to him, h was
never under any obligation to plead. A verdict ina criminal
case where there has been neither arraignment nor plea, is a
nullity, and no valid judgment can be rendered thereon. And
so is a verdict rendered upon a plea put in by the attorney of
a party indicted for a felonious assault with intent to rob."
In State v. -lughes,1 Alabama, 655, 651, it was held to be
error to swear the'jury to pass upon the guilt or innocence of
the accused before calling upon him to plead. The court said
that until the prisoner was called on for his plea, it could not
be known whether there would be an issue of fact for the jury,

CRAIN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

or what the issue (if any) might be; that the prisoner, instead
of submitting the question of his guilt, might have pleaded in
abatement, or have presented to the court legal objections to
the indictment; and that, though a formal arraignment of one
charged with a, criminal offence may not be indispensable
to the regularity of a conviction, it was clear that the case
must be put in a condition for trial before the jury is sworn.
In Sartorious v. State, 24: Mississippi, 602, 611, 612, which
was an indictment for buying certain goods, knowing them to
be stolen, the court said: "The record does not show that the
prisoner was arraigned or that be pleaded to the indictment.
In trials for minor offences a formal arraignment in practice
is generally dispensed with. In such cases, where the defendant has pleaded to the indictment, an arraignment will be presumed. But a party, before he can' be put upon his trial, must.
plead to the indictment. In civil proceedings it is error to
submit a cause to the jury without an issue in fact having been
made up by parties. In prosecutions for offences it must be
equally erroneous to put a party upon his trial, unless he has
taken issue upon the charge by pleading to the indictment."
In Bowen v. State, 108 Indiana, 411, 413, the court said:
"Under the decisions of this court it can no longer be recogSnized as a subject of controversy that where the record in a
criminal case fails to disclose affirmatively that a plea to the
indictment was entered, either by or for the defendant, such
record on its face shows a -mistrial, and that the proceeding
was consequently erroneous, to say the least."
In AyleswortA v. People, 65 Illinois, 801, 302, which wa,
an indictment for a misdemeanor, the record failed to show
that the accused was ever arraigned or pleaded. The Supreme
Court of Illinois said: "The record should also show that
the plea of not guilty Was entered. Without it there is nothing for the jury to try.. Johnson v. People, 22 Illinois, 314."
The judgment was reversed. In the subsequent case of Hoskins v. People, 84 Illinois, 87, whiclt was an ifidictment for
larceny, the court said: "It appears from the record that
defendant 'waived arraignment, copy of indictment, list of
jurors and witnesses,' etc., but no plea of any kind was entered.
YOL. CLX--41

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

So far as this record discloses, no plea was entered before the
accused was placed on trial. On the authority of the former
decisions of this court, this was error. Johnne

v. People, 22

Illinois, 314; Yundt v. People, 65 Illinois, 372. It was held
in those cases that, without an issue formed, there could be
nothing to try, and the party convicted could not properly be
sentenced." So, in Parkinsonv. People, 135 Illinois, 401, 403,
which was an indictment for a felony: "There must be a
plea; and if a trial is had, and no plea of any kind is interposed and shown by the record, it is reversible error."
In State v. Ulge Chenier, 32 La. Ann. 103, 104, which was
an indictment for rape, the accused, after the trial commenced,
was, by order of court, arraigned and his plea made. The
trial then proceeded under the direction of the court. The
Supreme Court of Louisiana said: "We cannot sanction such
a departure from ancient landmarks in criminal procedure.
The prisoner must be arraigned and must plead to the indictment before the case can be set down for trial or tried. It
may be that, in this particular case, no prejudice was wrought
to the accused. Still we think it unsafe to sanction such irregularities in capital cases."
In Ray v. People, 6 Colorado, 231, which was an indictment
for forgery, it was assigned for error that the accused never
was arraigned, and that lie never pleaded or was required to
plead to the indictment. Upon these points the record was
silent. The statutes of Colorado required all criminal trials to
be conducted according to the course of the common law,
except where a different mode is pointed out. The court held
that without an issue there was nothing to try, and if the
record failed to show an arraignment and plea prior to trial
'the proceeding was a nullity.
In State v. Vanhook, 88 Missouri, 105, the Supreme Court of
Missouri reversed a judgment of conviction, because the record
did not show an arraignment and plea of not guilty, observing
that the error was a fatal one, and that, it was for the legislature, and not the court, to change the law on the subject.
To the same general effect are State v. Wilson, 22 Pao. Rep.
(Kansas) 622, 626; Jeferson v. State, 7 S. W. Rep. (Texas)

CRAIN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

244; Riob v. State, 12 N. E. Rep. (Indiana) 522; State v. -Agee,
68 Missouri, 264; iS ate v. Saunders, 53 Missouri, 231.
The American treatises upon criminal law are to the same
effect. Bishop says: "It is laid down, in a general way, that
the arraignment and plea are a necessary part of the proceeding, without which there can be no valid trial and judgment.
With the consent of the court the prisoner may waive the reading of the indictment, though without waiver it will be read,
even where he has been furnished with a copy. And as the
object of the arraignment is to obtain the plea, if the prisoner
voluntarily makes it without, and it is accepted by the court,
nothing more is required. But without plea there can be no
valid trial. Nor will the proceeding be rendered good by the
fact that the defendant went to trial voluntarily and without
objection, knowing there was no plea. It must be before the
jury are sworn; afterward the plea comes too late." 1 Bishop's
Or. Pro. § 733. "There can be no trial on the merits without
a plea of not guilty." Ib. § 801. Wharton. "When brought
to the bar incapital cases, and at strict practice in all cases
whatever, the defendant is formally arraigned by the reading of the indictment and the calling on him for a plea.
The right of arraignment in a criminal trial may, in some cases,
be waived, but a plea is always essential." 1 Amer. Cr.Law.

§ 530.
Without citing other authorities we think it may be stated
to be the prevailing rule, in this country and in England, at
least in cases of felony, that a plea to the indictment is necessary before the trial can be properly commenced, and that
unless this fact appears affirmatively from the record the judgment cannot be sustained. Until the accused pleads to the indictnient and thereby indicates the issue submitted by him for
trial, there is nothing for the jury to try; and the fact that the
defendant did so plead should not be ,left to be inferred from a
general recital in some order that the jury were sworn to "try
the issue joined." The record should be a permanent memorial
of what was the issue tried, and show whether the judgment,
whereby it was proposed to take the life of the accused or to
depiive him of his liberty, was in accordance with. the law of

OCTOBER TER-f, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

the land. In Hopt v. Utah, 110 U. S. 574, 579, this court, observing that the public has an interest in the life and liberty of
an accused person, said: "Neither can be lawfully taken except
in the mode prescribed by law. That which the law makes
essential in proceedings involving the deprivation of life or
liberty cannot be dispensed with or"affected by the consent of
the accused, much less by. his mere failure, when on trial and
in custody, to object to unauthorized methods."
The views we have expressed would seem to be the necessary
result of section 1032 of the Revised Statutes, which provides:
"When any person indicted for any offence against the United
States, whether capital or otherwise, upon his arraignment
stands mute or refuses to plead or answer thereto, it shall be
the duty of the court to enter the plea of not guilty on his
behalf in the same manner as if he had pleaded not guilty
thereto. And when the party pleads not guilty, or such plea
is entered as aforesaid, the cause shall be deemed at issue, and
shall, withou t further form or ceremony, be tried by-a jury."
This statute is based on the act of April 30, 1790, c. 9, § 30,
1 Stat. 112, 119; the act of March 3, 1825, c. 65, § 14, 4 Stat.
115, 118; and the act of March 3, 1835, c. 40, § 4, 4 Stat. 775,
777. It proceeds upon the established principle that before
a criminal trial can be legally commenced there must be an
issue to try, and that a plea by or for the accused is essential
to the formation of the issue. And the section above quoted
requires the entry of the plea before the trial commences.
Where the crime charged is infamous in its nature, are we at
liberty to guess that a plea was made by or for the accused,
and then guess again as to what was the nature of that plea?
Neither sound reason nor public policy justifies any departure from settled principles applicable in criminal prosecutions
for infamous crimes. Even if there were a wide divergence
among th&authorities upon this subject, saf6ty lies in adhering to established modes of procedure devised for the security
of life and liberty. Nor ought the courts, in their abhorrence
of crime nor because of their anxiety to enforce the law against
criminals, to countenance the careless manner in which the records of cases involving the life or liberty of an accused are

GRAIN, v. UNITED STATES.
.Opinion of the Court.

often prepared. Before a court of last resort affirms a judgment of conviction of, at least, an infamous crime, it should
appear, affirmatively, from the record that every step necessary to the validity of the sentence has been taken. That
cannot be predicated of the record now before us. We may
have a belief that the accused, in the present case, did, in fact,
plead not guilty of the charges against him in the indictment.
But this belief is not founded upon any clear, distinct, affirmative statement of record, but upon inference merely. That
will not suffice. We are of opinion that the rule requiring
the record of a trial for an infamous crime to show affirmatively that it was demanded of the accused to plead to the
indictment, or that he did so plead, is not a matter of form
only, but of substance in. the administration of the criminal
law; consequently, such a defectin the record of a criminal
trial is not cured by section 1025 of the Revised Statutes, but
involves, the substantial rights of the accused.
It is true that the Constitution does not, in terms, declare
that a person accused of crime cannot be tried until it be demanded of him that he plead, or unless*he pleads, to 'the indictment. But it does forbid the deprivation of liberty without due process of law; and due process of law requires that
the accused plead, or be ordered to plead, or, in a proper case,
that a plea of not guilty be filed for him, before his trial
can rightfully proceed; and the record of his coniviction should
show distinctly, and not by inference merely, that eveiry step
involved in due process of law, and essential to a valid.trial,
was taken in the trial court ; otherwise, the judgment will be
erroneous. The suggestion that the trial couirt would not
have stated, in its order, that the jury was sworn to try and
tried "the issue joined," unless the defendant pleaded, or was
ordered to plead, to the indictment, cannot be made the basis
of judicial action withbout efidangering the just and orderly
administration of the criminal law. ,The present defendant
may be guilty, and may deserve the full punishment imposed
upon him by the sentence of the trial court. But it were
better that he should escape altogether than that the court
should sustain a judgment of conviction of an infamous crime

OCTOBER TERi,

1895.

Dissenting Opinion: Peckham, Brewer, White, JJ.

where the record does not clearly show that there was a valid
trial.
Tie Judgment is reversed and the case is remanded ih,at the
defendant may be properly arraignedandplead to the indictment, andfor further_roceedings in conformity with
law.
iMR.

JUSTrC

PECKHA-4, with whom concurred AIR. JusTicE

BnEwxn and IMn.

JUSTICE WHITE,

dissenting.

I dissent from the judgment of the court in this case. It
seems to me to proceed, not alone upon the merest technicality,
but also upon an unwarranted presumption of error arising
from the absence of a formal statement in the record showing
that the defendant was duly arraigned and pleaded not guilty,
although the inference that he was so arraigned and that ie
did thus plead seems to be plain from the facts which the
record discloses. At a certain perioa of English history,
when an accused person had no right to be represented by
counsel, and when the punishments for crimes were so severe
as to shock the sense of justice of many judges who administered the criminal law, it was natural that technical
objections which, perhaps, alone stood between the criminal
and the enforcement of a most severe, if not cruel, penalty,
should be accorded great weight, and that forms and modes
of procedure, having really no connection with the merits of a
particular case, should be insisted upon as a sort of bulwark of
defence against prosecutions which might otherwise be successful, and which at the same time ought not to succeed.
These times have passed and the reasons for the strict and
slavish adherence to mere form have passed with them.
In this case there cannot be a well founded doubt that the
defendant was arraigned and pleaded not guilty. The presumption of that fact arises from a perusal of the record and
it is, as it seems to me, conclusive. There is no presumption
in favor of a defendant upon a criminal trial, excepting that of
innocence. Error in the record is not presumed, but must be
shown. A presumption that proper forms were omitted is not

CRAIN v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: Peckham, Brewer, White, JJ.

to be made. There must be at least some evidence to show it.
And yet, because the record fails to make a statement in
terms that the defendant was thus arraigned and (lid so
plead, this judgment is to be reversed, and that, too, without
an allegation or even a pretence that the defendant has suffered any injury by reason of any alleged defect of the character in question. I think such aresult most deplorable.
The record sets out the indictment. It then shows that the
district attorney for the United States appeared in court and
the defendant in his own person, and by his attorney, also
appeared, and then, on motion by the district attorney, it is
ordered by the court that a jury come to try the issue joined,
and a jury is duly selected, empanelled and sworn to try the
'issue joined, and a true verdict to render according to the law
and the evidence. The trial proceeds and the jury return a
verdict that the defendant is guilty as charged in the first,
second and third counts of the indictment. In the bill of exceptions, a document prepared by the defendant, it is also
asserted that a jury was empanelled, sworn and charged to
try the issues joined in the cause. Can there, from these facts,
be a doubt founded upon any fair presumption that the defendant had been arraigned and had pleaded not guilty?
That the plea was of that nature must be pi:esumed from
the fact that the jury was summoned to try the issue, and
that upon the trial of such issue the defendant was convicted
on the first, second and third counts of the indictment. The
evidence stated in the bill of exceptions is directed solely to
the issue of guilt or innocence. It would be wholly imaterial upon any other issue, and it is also of such a nature as
to show beyond all rational doubt that it was received upon
the trial of the issue, raised by a plea of not guilty. No
other presumption than that an arraignment and a plea of
not gu ilty had been interposed,, could from such a record be
reasonably indulged in. The record further shows a motion
made in arrest of judgment and the grounds thereof, among
which no mention is made of any alleged failure to arraign
the defendant. The motion is sustained as to the first and
third counts of the indictment, and overruled as to the second,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Dissenting Opinion: Peckham, Brewer, White, JJ.

and the defendant excepts to the ruling. The record then
continues, and states that on motion of the district attorney
the defendant was brought to the bar of the court in custody
of the marshal, and it being demanded of him- what he has
to say why sentence should not be pronounced upon the verdict, says he has nothing further to say than as already said.
There is no statement in the record that the defendant, when
thus called upon to speak, said one word or raised any objection as to any failure to arraign him or take his plea. If
there had been such failure, was not that a time to speak,
and would the defendant not then have spoken? Further,
the defendant, after his sentence, obtains a writ of error
from this court, and files an assignment of error, and yet no
mention is therein made of any absence of an arraignment.
Is it reasonable upon such a record to infer that no arraignment was had and no plea taken? Is it not, on the contrary,
reasonable to infer that defendant was arraigned, and that he
did plead not guilty? Yet, by this decision, it results that
unless the record states in terms an arraignment and plea, a
judgment must be reversed, although the presumption that
there was an arraignment and plea arising from the conterits
of the record is both strong and uncontradicted.
In the face of such a presumption, the simple failure of a
clerk to make an entry of the fact of arraignment and plea,
although both presumably took place, is yet made a substantial ground for a reversal of a judgment which. actually
was rendered in due course of a criminal prosecution and
by a court of competent jurisdiction. This ought not to be.
There is but a mere suggestion at the end of the brief of the
counsel for the plaintiff in error, filed in this court, where the
objection is for the first time raised that defendant was not
given an opportunity to plead to the indictment before being
put upon his trial, never having been arraigned. For the
facts counsel refer to the record, and that shows what has
already been set forth. I think a clear and necessary inference arises from the contents of the record that the defendant
was arraigned and pleaded.
Suppose, however, the defendant through mere inadver-

CRAIN v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: Reckham, -Brewer, White, JJ.

tence had not been formally arraigned at the bar, and.had
not in terms pleaded, but that he was placed on trial without

objection on his part, and both sides treated the. case as if he
had been arraigned and pleaded not guilty, could it be
plausibly contended that, nevertheless, a fatal error had been
committed by a neglect of this form: and that a judgment of
conviction must on that account be reversed? Is it possible
that for the first time a defendant can in this court successfully raise this formal objection, and under circumstances
showing a waiver of the rule,, and yet obtain a reversal of
the judgment on that ground alone? To my mind the mere
statement of these questions furnishes their conclusiive answer.
Some cases may hold the necessity of a formal plea and that
the conduct of a defendant in going to trial without any
objection, and as if a plea of not guilty had been entered,
did not waive the necessity of such a plea. Those cases are
not based on principles which, in my judgment, ought now
to be followed.
Here the defendant could not have been injured by an
inadvertence of that nature. He ought to be held to have
waived that which under the circumstances would have been
a wholly unimportant formality. A waiver ought to be conelusively implied where the parties had proceeded as if defendant had been duly arraigned, and a formal plea of not
guilty had been interposed, and where there was no objection made on account of its absence until, as in this case, the
record was brought to this court for review. It would be inconsistent with the due administration of justice to permit a
defendant under such circumstances to lie by, say nothing as
to such an objection, and then for the first time urge it in this
-court.

It is not necessary, however, in this case to place my judgment upon any doctrine of waiver, and I do not base my
dissent upon that view of the case.
This record is, as I have said, far from showing that
through mere inadvertence the defendant was not arraigned
and did not plead. On the contrary, the necessary presumption arising from the facts appearing therein is that the

OCTOBER TERMN,

1895.

Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

defendant was arraigned and did plead. To reverse the
judgment upon the pure technicality (raised in this court
for the first time) that the record does not in terms show an
arraignment and a plea, where the presumption arising from
the contents of the record is that both occurred, is to my
mind a sacrifice of justice to the merest and most formal
kind of an objection, founded upon an unjustifiable presumption of error and entirely at war with the facts as they
occurred. If the statute cited in the opinion of the court,
Rev. Stat. § 1025, do not apply to a case such as this, it is
difficult to think of one for which its provisions could more
properly be invoked.
The judgment should be
Afflrmed.
I am authQrized to state that MR. JUSTIE BR wEn and MR.
JUSTICE WHITE concur in this opinion.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v.
JAMES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
No. 206. Argued and submitted April 2, 1896.-Decided May 4, 1896.

The statute of the State of Georgia of October 22, 1887, requiring every
telegraph company with a line of wires, wholly or partly within that
State, to receive dispatches, and, on payment of the usual charges, to

transmit and deliver them with due diligence, under a penalty of one
hundred dollars, is a valid exercise of the power of the State in relation
to messages by telegraph from points outside of and directed to some
point within the State.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

.3r. John F. Dillon,(with whom were .fr. George H1. Fearons
and .r. Rus8& Taggart on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.

No appearance for defendant in error.

