BRYANI

v. KALES.,

Syllabus.

To dispose of this .assignment it is sufficient to cite the case
of Goode v. United States, 159 U. S. 663, where it was held
that, in an indictment against a letter carrier charged with
secreting, embezzling or destroying a letter containing postage stamps, the fact that the letter was a decoy is no defence.
Error was likewise assigned to the refusal of the court to
charge that there was a fatal variance between the indictment
and proof in respect to the description of the letters, for the
stealing or embezzling of which the defendant was indicted.
In the indictment it was averred that the letters in question
had come into the defendant's possession as a railway postal
clerk, to be conveyed by mail and to be delivered to the persons addressed. It was disclosed by the evidence that the
letters and money thus mailed belonged to the inspectors who
mailed them, and were to be intercepted and withdrawn from
the mails by them before they reached the persons to whom
they were addressed.
There is no merit in this assignment. The letters put in
evidence corresponded, in address and contents, to the letters
described in the indictment, and it made no difference, with
respect to the duty of the carrier, whether the letters were
genuine or decoys with a fictitious address. Substantially this
question was ruled in the case. of Goode v. United States, above
cited.
The judgment of the court -below is
Affrmed.

BRYAN ,.
APPEAL FROM THE

KALES.

IUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.

X6.198. "Submitted December 19, IS5. -Declded

April 18, 1896.

When a mortgagee is in possession of the mortgaged real estate, claiming
under a foreclosure sale, one -claiming under the mortgagoi cannot, by
setting up that the foreclosure proceedings were invalid, maintain ejectment to recover.the premises, without first offci'ing to redeem .and tendering payment of the mortgage debt.

OCTOBER TERI,

1895.

Statement of the Case.

THIs was an action of ejectment brought August 12, 1887, in
the district court of the Second Judicial District of the Territory of Arizona, county of Maricopa, by T. J. Bryan against
M. W. Kales, to recover possession of a tract of land in that
county containing 160 acres. The case was tried by the
ciurt, a jury having been waived, and on December 6, 1890,
judgment was entered for the defendant, whereupon the
plaintiff appealed to the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Arizona. In that court the case was heard upon an agreed
statement of facts, and the judgment of the district court was
affirmed. The plaintiff then appealed to this court.
The facts, as they appear in the agreed statement, are substantially as follows:
Oh May 26, 1882, one Jonathan M. Bryan, who then owned
the S. E. I of section 2, T. 1 N., R. 3 E., Gila and Salt River
meridian, being the land in controversy in this action, executed to the said M. W. Kales his promissory note for the
sum of $5615, payable May 26, 1883,.with interest at the rate
of one and one half per cent a month, and, to secure the same,
on the said date he and his wife, Vina Bryan, executed and
delivered to Kales a mortgage of all the said land.
On August 29, 1883, Jonathan M. Bryan died intestate,
leaving Vina Bryan, who was his wife at the time he acquired
the said property, his widow and sole heir. On September 13,
1883, the said M. W. Kales filed his application for letters of
administration in the probate court of the said county wherein
Jonathan M. Bryan resided at the time of his death, and in
which the said land was situate, and such proceedings were
had thereon that Kales was duly appointed administrator of
Bryan's estate on September 21, 1883. He proceeded in the
administration of the estate until Deember 6, 1884, when
the administration was closed, and he was discharged from
his trust. In such proceedings the said property was not
distributed.
Kales, while he was so acting as administrator, and while
he was the owner of the note and mortgage, brought an action
in the district court of the Territory of Arizona, by a complaint filed October 3, 1883, in which he, M. W. Kales, as

BRYAN v. KALES.
Statement of the Case.

plaintiff, sued himself, M. W. Kales, administrator of the
estate of Jonathan M. Bryan, deceased, as defendant, asking
for judgment upon the note and foreclosure of the mortgage,
and for a sale of the land to satisfy the judgment. To that
suit -Vina Bryan was made a party defendant. On the same
day a Zis pendens was duly filed in the office of the county
recorder of the said county. On October 3, 1883, a summong
was duly issued out of the said court, and duly served upon
M. W. Kales, administrator, the defendant named in the
action; and on the same day a summons was duly issued
and served upon the said Vina Bryan. -M. W. Kales, administrator, as defendant, made answer on the same day, and
admitted each and every allegation of the complaint, and
consented that a judgment and decree might be entered in
accordance with the prayer thereof ; and Vina Bryan, answering the complaint, denied any individual liability on her part
to the plaintiff, admitted each and every material allegation
in the complaint, in so far as the same did not imply a personal liability on her part; disclaimed all right, title and
interest in the said property in any way conflicting with the
mortgage; and prayed to be dismissed.
Upon a day of the regular term of the said court, October
16, 1883, the'said cause came on for trial, and the same having
been tried and duly submitted, the court on that date rendered
judgment against IM.W. Kales, administrator of the estate of
Jonathan iM. Bryan, deceased, defendant, in favor of IM.W.
Kales, plaintiff, for the sum of $5330.80, entered a decree to
foreclose the said mortgage, and ordered that the said property be sold to satisfy the judgment, and that the defendants
be barred and foreclosed of all equity of redemption of, in
and to the said property from and after the delivery of the
sheriff's deed to the same. On November 10, 1883, an order
for the sale of the property was issued out of the court
on the judgment and delivered to the sheriff of Maricopa
County for execution, and on December 15, 1883, the sheriff,
having advertised the land for sale under the judgment for
the time prescribed by law, offered the same for sale to the
highest bidder, for cash, and sold the same to the said M. W.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

Kales for the sum of $4500, that being the highest price bid,
and subsequently executed and delivered to Kales a deed
therefor, dated June 19, 1884.
Afterwards Vina Bryan, the widow of Jonathan M1. Bryan,
married one IR. D. Brown, and thereafter, namely, on June 29,
1887, she conveyed, by quitclaim deed, in the name of Vina
Brown, to T. J. Bryan, the plaintiff in the present action, such
interest as she then had in the said land.
It further appears by the agreed statement of facts in this
case that Kales paid the said amount for the property,.and
-that such amount was the market value of the same; that
from the date of sale to the time of the commencement of
this action, IKales paid $434.88 in taxes and $3048.37 for improvements upon the property; that M. W. Kales, the plaintiff in the said suit, iyas the same person as M. W. Kales,
administrator, the defendant therein; that at the timb of the
commencement of the present suit the defendant was in possession of the property; that no part of the property was sold
by the said administrator in the course of his administration,
and that the note and mortgage executed to Kales were not
paid or satisfied in any way, unless by the said sale.
Mr. William A. _fcKenney, Mr. Vebster Street and Mr. B.
Goodrich for appellant.
Mr. A. C.Baker, Mr. A. H. Garland and Mr. R. C. Garland for appellee.
IR. JUSTICE SHrRAs,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
Whether the judgment in the case of iales v. Kales, Admiistrator of the estate of Jonathan M. Bryan, was void,
because of the alleged fact that the plaintiff, suing as a creditor of the estate to foreclose a mortgage, was the same person
who, as defendant, represented the estate ; whether the judgment was open*to attack collaterally; and whether Mrs. Vina
Brown, who was the widow and sole heir of Jonathan M.
Bryan, was estopped from assailing the judgment, by reason

BRYAN v. BRASIUS.
Statement of the Case.

of having appeared and answered in the foreclosure suit,
acknowledging the debt and consenting to the sale, are questions which we deem it unnecessary to determine. There was
another ground of defence, so conclusive and free from difficulty that we prefer to place upon it our judgment affirming
that of the court below.
It is admitted that the defendant below was a mortgagee in
possession, with his debt past due and unpaid. The plaintiff
was not offering to redeem, and had not tendered payment of
the debt, but stood on the bare legal title, subject, if the foreclosure proceeding were void, to the lien of the unpaid mortgage and t6 the right of the mortgagee to retain possession
until his debt was paid. This is the English doctrine, and it
prevails generally in the United States. Birch v. WTight, 1
T. R. 378; Simpson v. Ammons, 1 Binney, 175; fill v. Payson, 3 Mass. 559 ; Parsonsv. Welles, 17 Mass. 419 ; Brobst v.
Brock, 10 Wall. 519. Afid such, as we learn from the opinion
of the Supreme Court of the Territory of Arizona in the present case, is the law of that Territory.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of' the Territory of
Arizona is acordingly
Aflrmed.

BRYAN v. BRASIUS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME. COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.
No. 200. Submitted December 19,1895.-Dectded April 13, 1896.
A mortgagor of land cannot recover in ejectment against the mortgagee in
possession, after'breach of condition,' or against persohs holding under
the mortgagee:
An irregular judicial sale, made at the/suit of a mortgagee, even though
no bar to the equity of redemption, passes all the mortgagee's rights to
the purchaser.

I' his lifetime one Jonathan 1f. Bryan, who was the owner
of the '160 acres of land in controversy in this actioii, being the

