NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CHARLESS.

359

Opinion of the Court.

NORTHERN PACIFIO RAILROAD COMPANY v.
0IFIARLESS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE* NINTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 184. Argued March 26, 27, 1896. -Decided

April 18, 1896.

The general principles of the law of master and servant, as set forth in the
opinion in Northern Pacific Railroadv. Peterson,ante, 346, are applicable
to the facts in this case, and govern it.
The plaintiff below was a day laborer, in the employ of the Northern Pacific
Railroad. With the rest of his gang he started on a hand car under a
foreman to go over a part of a section to inspect the road. While running rapidly round a curve they came in contact with a freight train, and
he was seriously injured. The brake of the hand car was defective.
The freight train gave no signals of its approach. He sued the company
to recover damages for his injuries. Held,
(1) That the railroad company was not liable for negligence of itsservants on the freight train to give signals of its approach, as
such negligence, if it existed, was the negligence of a co-servant
of the plaintiff;
(2) That any supposed negligence of the foreman in running the hand
car at too high a rate of speed, was negligence of a co-employ6 of
the company, and not of their common employer;
(3) That if it should be assumed that the injury might have been avoided
if the brake had not been defective, the jury should have been
properly instructed on that point.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.M . C. T. Bunn for plaintiff, in error.
Mr. Reese H. Voorhees for defendant in error. Mr,. A. Z
McBroom and Mir. E. -H. _Prather were on his brief.

MR.JUSTICE PECKEHAm delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff below was an ordinary day laborer employed
under a section boss or foreman to'keep a certain portion of
the roadbed of the defendant in repair. The foreman had
power to employ and discharge-men, and to superintend their

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

work, and was himself a workman. He employed the plaintiff, who, with the rest of the men employed in the gang some four; five or six- was carried to and from his work
daily on a hand car worked by the men themselves.
In August, 1886, on the 28th of the month, an accident
occurred as the men were on their way to their work. They
were using a hand car with what is alleged to have been a
defective brake. The foreman had complained of it to the
yardmaster a short time before, who had promised a better
one. In the meantime and as a temporary makeshift, the
foreman had provided the car with a brake which consisted
of a bit of wood, 4 x 4, fastened on the side of the car with a
bolt, and the long arm acted as a lever and pressed the shorter
portion of the timber against the wheel. In that way the car
had been run for a day or two before the morning of the
accident. On that day, the plaintiff with the rest of the men
in the gang and the foreman started on the hand car to go
over a certain portion of the section to inspect the condition
of the road. They were running the car very rapidly under
the direction and supervision of the foreman and had arrived
at a narrow cut in the road around a curve, when tlhey were
suddenly confronted with a freight train coming through the
cut in the opposite direction. There had been no warning or
signal of any'kind given by any of the employ~s on the freight.
train of its approach, and plaintiff below knew nothing of the
fact that any freight train was expected. Efforts were made
to stop the hand car, and as the speed did not seem to be
slackened in time, plaintiff became frightened and undertook
to jump from the front end of the car, when he stumbled over
some tools that were on the car and fell between the rails in
front of it. As the hand car approached him he put his foot
up against it in order to prevent its running over him, but the
impetus of the car was too great, and it ran over and doubled
him up and wrenched his spine, causing him great internal
injuries. The other hands jumped off the car, removed it
from the track and took the plaintiff out of danger before the
freight train passed by.
The injuries of the plaintiff were of a very serious nature, and

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CHARLESS.

361

Opinion of the Court.

his legs became paralyzed, and he was rendered a cripple for
life. He commenced this action against the defendant below
to recover damages on account of the negligence of the
agents and servants of the defendant. The negligence claimed
consisted in:
1. The defective break on the car, which it is alleged was an
appliance for the prosecution of the work on the defendant's
road and necessary to be used to enable the employ~s to perform their duties, and that as such appliance it was the duty
of the defendant to see that it was reasonably safe and fit for
the purpose intended.
2.. The negligence of the foreman in charge of the gang,
who directed the speed of the hand car and ran it at a hazardous rate of speed, when he knew that a train coming towards
him was expected, while the Other members of the gang were
ignorant of that fact.
3. The negligence of the train hands on the approaching
train in giving no signals of their approach around the curve
and through the cut, although they were near a public crossing and some signals were necessary. on that account.
Upon the trial evidence was given tending to prove the
above facts, and, among other things, the judge charged the
jury as follows:
"I think that the case, when stripped of all the side issues
and the incidental questions surrounding it, resolves itself into
just this question for this jury to determine: Whether the
injury to the plaintiff resulted directly from the negligence of
the defendant in needlessly exposing him to the danger of
being hurt by a collision between the hand car and the extra
freight train at the place where it occurred; or, whether the
injury was a mere accident, which was the result of one of
the ordinary hazards of the employment in which he was
engaged; whether it was an ordinary risk of his employment,
or whether an extraordinary danger caused by the negligence
on the part of the defendant; whether that negligence was a
negligence of the foreman in running the hand car too fast up
to a point which he knew to be dangerous, and which he did
not warn the other men working on the hand car of, so that

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

it was impossible for thdm, without extreme hazard to their
lives, to avoid a collision ; or, whether the negligence was on
the part of the officers in charge of the freight train in approaching a curve in the cut, which obstructed the train from
view, or passing a public crossing without giving warning by
sounding the whistle or engine bell.
"If, in any of these respects, there was aptual neglect on
the part of defendant which placed the plaintiff in a situation
of extraordinary danger, something clearly beyond the ordinary risks of his employment, and his injury was not in any
degree owing to his own negligence at the time, the defendant would be liable to damages."
The defendant below excepted to each of the above propositions, as laid down by the learned judge in his charge, and
the jury rendered a verdict in favor of the plaintiff, which
was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit, and the defendant below sued out a writ of error
from this court to review the judgment.
Many of the facts surrounding the happening of this accident are similar in their nature to those existing in the case
of the Northern Pacific Rlailroad Co. v. Pet'son,ante, 346,
just decided. The employment of the plaintiff below, the
nature of the work and the powers of the section boss under
whom he worked are substantially the same as those existing
in the other case. We may refer to the general principles of
the law of master and servant applicable to these facts which
are set forth in the opinion of this court in that case, and which
we think govern the case at bar upon those facts.
In regard to the particular allegations of negligence above
set forth, it is not necessary, in the view we take of this case,
to express any opinion whether the alleged defect in the brake
on the hand car rendered it a defective appliance within the
meaning of the law rendering the master liable for a failure
to provide a reasonably safe and proper appliance for the
work to be done by his employ~s.
There were two other propositions submitted to the jury by
the learned judge, each of which was, as we think, of a
material nature and also clearly erronbous.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CIEARLESS.

363

Opinion of the Court.

First. We think it was error to submit to the jury the
question of the negligence of the employ~s on the extra
freight train in failing to give the signals of its approach.
This failure, assuming that it constituted negligence, was
nothingimore than the negligence of co-servants of the plaintiff below in performing the duty devolving upon them. The
principle which covers the facts of this case was laid down in
Randall v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad,109 U. S. 4:78,,and
that case has never been overruled or questioned. The Ross
case, 112 U.'S. 377, is a different case, and was decided upon
its own peculiar facts. See Baltimore & Ohio Railroad v.
Bauglh, 149 U. S. 368, 380. Among the latest expressions of
opinion of this court in regard to views similar to those stated
in the case in 109 U. S., (supra,) is the case of the NVorthern
Paoijic Railroad Company v. Hambly, 154 U. S. 349. It
seems to us that the Randall and the Hambly cases are
conclusive, and necessitate a reversal of this judgment. In
the Hambly case it was held that a common day laborer in the
employ of a railroad company, who, while working for the
company, under the orders and direction of a section boss or
foreman on a culvert on the line of the company's road, received an injury through the negligence of a conductor and
of an engineer in moving a. particular passenger train upon
the company's road, was a fellow-servant with such engineer
and with such conductor in such a sense as exempts the railroad company from liability for the injury so inflicted. We
are unable to distinguish any difference in principle arising
from the facts in these two cases.
The question of the negligence of the hands upon the extra
freight train should not have been submitted to the jury as
constituting any right to a recovery against the corporation on
the ground of such negligence.
Second. We also regard it as erroneous to have submitted
to the jury the general question whether Kirk, the section
foreman, was negligent in running his hand car at too high a
speed just prior to the accident. Kirk and the plaintiff below
were co-employ~s of the company, and the neglect of Kirk,
if it existeod, in driving his hand- car too fast (assuming it was

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

in proper condition) was not such negligence as would render
the company responsible to Kirk's co-employ6. It was not the
neglect of any duty which the company as master was bound
itself to perform. This we have held in the Peterson case,
and for the reasons there stated. While it may be assumed
that the master would have been liable if a defective brake
had been the cause of the accident, yet, the defendant below
is, under the charge of the judge, permitted to be made liable
by proof of the speed of the hand car, if the jury found that
Kirk the foreman knew it to be dangerous and that the accident happened because of that speed, even though it would
have happened if the brake had been the regular.kind and in
good order. The language of the court does not separate the
question of general negligence in running a hand car which
was in good order too fast from that which might be negligence with reference to running a hand car with a defective
brake at the same rate of speed. For using in a negligent
manner a defective appliance furnished by the master, the
latter might be liable if a co-employ6 were thereby and in
consequence thereof injured. As the master furnished the defective appliance, it would be no answer to say that it was
negligently used. But, on the other hand, the master would
not be responsible for the negligent use of a proper appliance.
From the language used by the court the company might have
been held liable if Kirk were running the hand car at a dangerous rate of speed, although the jury found the brake actually used to have been sufficient. A dangerous rate of speed
was, therefore, held to be negligence, for which the company
would be liable. But it is said that the fact of a dangerous
rate of speed is necessarily so mingled and intimately connected
with the fact of a defective brake that it is impossible to regard the speed separate and distinct from the defect, so that
when the question of excessive speed was submitted to -the
jury as a possible foundation for the finding of negligence, it
was in substance and effect a submission to the jury of the
question of excessive speed in the particular case of a hand car
supplied with a defective brake. We think this is not an
answer to the objection, and that there was error in submitting

NOITHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD

. CHARLESS

365

Opinion of the Court.

the question of excessive speed to the jury in the manner in
which it was done in this case. From the evidence set forth
in the record it is olear that the jury might have taken the
view that the temporary brake was, while it lasted, as adequate
for the purpose as any other, but that the hand car, assuming
it was in good order, was negligently run at a dangerous rate
of speed so that it could not have been stopped in time, even
if it had been supplied 'with a regular brake. In that event,
under the judge's charge,, the jury might have held the company responsible for the mere negligence of the foreman Kirk
in running a hand car adequately supplied at a dangerous rate
of speed. That neglect, we hold, the company was not responsible for.
Upon the other question of the negligence of the employis
on the freight train, the error in the chirge is not rendered
harmless by any explanation given by the learned judge. The
difficulty remains uncured. The jury might have found from
the evidence that this hand car while going at the rate of speed
stated could have been stopped with the extemporized brake,
in time to prevent any danger of a collision, in case the proper
signals had been given by the hands on the freight train, but
that the accident resulted from their failure to give those signals, and that such failure vas negligence on their part. The
verdict may have been based upon such negligence. We hold
the company was not liable for the negligence of the hands on
the freight train in failing to give proper signals.
These two important and material errors on the part of the
learned judge who tried the cause, in his charge to the jury,
having never been remedied or in any manner cured, we are
compelled to sustain the exceptions.taken to such charge.
The judgment entered upon the verdict of the jury must be
Reversed, and the cause remanded with instructionsto grant
a new trial.
The CiamF JusTicE and MR. JUSTME FIELD and Mn. JUSTICE
HARLR

i dissented.

