OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

547; Fenwick v. Maryland, 63 Maryland, 239. In the latter
case-it was held that a person on trial for an assault with
intent to commit murder is competent to testify as to the
purpose for which he procured the instrument with which he
committed the assault.
This rule is not controverted, but it is contended that
Wallace's belief was immaterial. For the reasons given we
cannot concur in that view and are of opinion that the witness
should have been allowed to answer.
It is unnecessary to pass upon any of the other points raised
on behalf of plaintiff in error.
.Judgment reversed and cause remanded with a direction to
set aside the verdict and grant a new trial.

C.AMPBELL v. PORTER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE *DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 187. Argued Mfarch 10, 11, 1896. -Decided

April 20, 1S96.

A writ of error is the proper form .ofbringing up to this court an order of
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia admitting a will to
probate.
Since the act of July 9, 1888, c. 597, as before that act, the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia has no power to admit a will or. codicil to
probate as a devise of real estate.

THIS was a petition by the executors of the will of the late
Admiral David D. Porter, who died February 13, 1891, to
the special term of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, sitting as an orphans' court, for the admission to
probate of his will and of a codicil thereto.
Upon citation to the next of kin; Elena Porter, a daughter
of the testator, having become by marriage Elena Campbell,
appeared and demanded full proof of the execution of the
will and codicil.
The will and the codicil each bore the signature of the
testator, and those of the same three persons as witnesses.

CAM-PBELL v. PORTER.
Argument for Plaintiff In Error.

At the .hearing in special term, it was shown by the examination of the 'witnesses, .that the will was duly executed -by
the tpstator, and attested by all three witnesses; and that the
codicil was signed by the testator, and attested by two of the
witnesses; and the only controverted question was whether
the testator did or did- not make or acknowledge his signature to the codicil in the presence of the third witness.
Upon the whole, evidence (which was set forth in the
.record, but is unnecessary to the understanding of the. points
decided by this court) the judge holding the special. term
ordered the will to be admitted. to probate -as to both real
and personal property, and the- codicil to be admitted to
probate in respect of *personal property; and certified to the
.general term, for hearing in the first instance, the question
of the sufficiency of the codicil to devise or dispose of real
estate.
At the hearing in general term, it was ordered and
adjudged, for reasons stated in the opinion reported in
9 Mackey, (20 D. 0.) 493, that the codicil was duly executed
by the testator, and subscribed and attested by three witnesses, as required by law, .and should be admitted to probate as a devise of real estate. A bill of exceptions to this
ruling and order was tendered by Mrs. Campbell, and allowed by the court, which certified that the value of the
real estate devised to her in the codicil was less than that
devised to her in the will by more than the sum of $5000,
a sufficient amount to sustain the appellate jurisdiction of this
court,' under the act of March 3, 1885, c. 355. 23 Stat. 443.
And Mrs. Campbell, on June 22, 1892, sued out this writ of
error.
MAr. W D. Davidge, (with whom was -Mr. W. D. Davidge,
Jr., on the brief,) for plaintiff in error, as to the point on which
the case turned in this court:
It is said on the other side that the court below in special
term had no power to admit to probate a will or codicil as a
dev e. of real estate.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

Such was the law prior to the act of Congress of July 9,
1888, c. 597, 25 Stat. 246; Robertson v. Pickrell, 109 U. S.
608, 610; Barbour v. Moore, 4 App. Gas. D. C. 535, 544.
But the above act enacted as follows: "The record of any
will or codicil heretofore or hereafter recorded in the office of
the register of wills of the District of Columbia, which shall
have been admitted to probate by the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, or by the late orphans' court of said District, or the record of the transcript of the record and probate
of any will or codicil elsewhere, or of any certified copy thereof,
heretofore or hereafter filed in the office of said register of
wills shall be vrima facie evidence of the contents and due
execution of such wills and codicils: P rovided, that this act
shall not apply in any cause now pending in any of the courts
of the District of Columbia."
Whatever may be said as to the retroactive operation of that
law, there can be no doubt that the record of wills of real estate, admitted to probate since its passage, is prima facie evidence as tb two matters - contents and due execution. Barbour v. Zfoore, 4 App. Gas. 535.
.AX&. Chapin Brown for defendant in error.
This case is not properly before this court for review. It
should have been brought here by appeal, and not by writ of
error. The proceedings under which the case was tried below,
are provided for in the Maryland act of 1798. Ormsby v. Mebb,
134 U. S.47, does not apply to the case at bar.
But in the present case all of the testimony was taken under
the law by depositions in writing and tried and determined by
the General Term of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, sitting as an orphans' court, without a jury trial.
There is no provision of law or of practice for framing a bill
of exceptions in this case (Stewart v. Pattison's Excr. 8 Gill,
,pp. 46, 54), and the law relating to trial and appeal, where the
facts are tried by the court on depositions in writing, is different from that relating to trial by jury.
But it is clear that the orphans' court had no jurisdiction

CAMPBELL v. PORTER.
Opinion of the Court.

to try any question relating to a devise of real estate, and was
without jurisdiction to pass the order admitting the codicil to
probate as a devise of real estate.
The court in General Term of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia was sitting as an orphans' court when
it passed this. order, and had only the powers and jurisdiction
of the orphans' court.
When the court ordered that the codicil be admitted tolprobate in respect of personal property, the powers and jurisdiction of the orphan's court were exhausted and final, and
there was no appeal from this order, or exception taken to the
order in this respect.
MR.

JUSTICE

GRAY,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
It was contended, in behalf of the defendants in error, that
the case should have been brought to this court by appeal,
and not by writ of error. But we consider this point as
settled by the decision made six years ago in Ormsby v. Webb,
134 U. S. 47, 64, 65, in which a motion to dismiss, for the
same reason, a writ of error to .review a judgment of the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, admitting a will
to probate, was denied by this court, -not merely because in
that case a trial by jury had -been actually had, but upon the
more general ground that a proceeding for -the probate of a
will in the District of Columbia was not a suit in equity, and
was a case in which the parties had the right to claim a trial
by jury, and in which there might be adversary parties, and
a final judgment affecting rights of Property. See Price v.
Taylor, 21 Maryland, 356, 363. The, decision in Ormsby v.
Webb has since been understood as governing the practice in
the District,'and evidently guided the course of the plaintiff
in error in the present case. Uider these circumstances, the
question whether the form of bringing up a probate case shall
be by writ of error or by appeal does not appear to us to be so
important in its coisequences that it should now be reconsidered.
VOL. C=xi-31

OCTOBER TER-NJ, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

A more serious question of jurisdiction, presented by this
record, is whether the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia had power to admit a will or codicil to probate as a
devise of real estate. Curiously enough, it is the plaintiff in
error who contends that it had, and the defendants in error
who insist that it had not. But it is immaterial by which
party the question is made, for, being a question of jurisdiction, it would be the duty of this court of its own motion to
take notice of it.
This question depends upon the act of Congress of July 9,
1888, c. 597, entitled "An act relating to the record of wills
in the District of Columbia," and the whole of the rest of
which is as follows: "The record of any will or codicil, heretofore or hereafter recorded in the office of the register of
wills of the District of Columbia, which shall have been admitted to probate by the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, or by the late orphans' court of said district, or the
record of the transcript of the record and probate of any will
or codicil elsewhere, or of any certified copy thereof, heretofore or hereafter filed in the office of said register of wills,
shall be irimafacieevidence of the contents and due execution
of such wills and codicils: Provided, that this act shall not
apply in any cause now pending in any of tho courts of the
District of Columbia." 25.Stat. 246.
In order to determine the scope and effect of this act, it is
necessary to consider what the law upon the subject was in
the District of Columbia before its passage.
The law of wills and of probate, as existing in Maryland on
February 27, 1801, is the law of the District of Columbia,
except as since altered by Congress; and the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia, in special and general term respectively, has, by virtue of successive acts of Congress, the
probate jurisdiction formerly exercised by the orphans' court
and the Court of Chancery of the State of Maryland, and by
the orphans' court and the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Columbia; with authority, also, at a special
term, to order any matter to be heard in the first instance at
a general term. Acts of February 27, 1801, c. 15, § 1, 12; 2

CAMPBELL v. PORTER.
Opinion of the Court.

Stat. 103, 107; March 3, 1863, c. 91i §§ 3, 5, 16; 12 Stat. 763,
764; Junie 21, 1870, c. 141, §§ 4, 5; 16 Stat. 161; Rev. Stat.
D. C. § 772, 800, 930.
The older laws of the State of Maryland concerning wills,
executors and guardians, were amended and codified by the
statute of 1798, chapter 101, drawn up by Chancellor Hanson,
and published in 2 Kilty's Laws, and containing the following
provisions:
By sub-chapter 1, § 4, (following the English Statute of
Frauds of 29 Car. 2, c. 3, § 5,) it ivas enacted that "all devises
and bequests of any lands or :tenements, devisable by law,
shall be in writing; and signed by the party so devising the
same, or by some other person in his presence, and by his
express directions, and Shall be attested and subscribed, in the
presence of the said devisor, by three or four credible witnesses, or else they shall be utterly void and of none effect."
Sub-chapter 2, in § 1-3, made various provisions for securing the prompt delivery of- "a will or codicil," after the
death of the testator, to the register of wills for safekeeping until probate; and in § 4, enacted that "an attested
copy, under the seal of office, of any will, testament or codicili recorded'in any office authorized to record the same, shall
be admitted as evidence in any court of law or equity: Provided, that the execution of the original will or codicil be
subject to be contested until a probate hath been had according to this act."
That statute did not authorize the probate of wills of real
estate. But in sub-6hapter 2, §§ 5-13, and sub-chapter 15,
§§ 16-18, it made full and minute plovisions for the probate
iM the orphans' court of "any will or codicil, containing any
disposition relative' to goods, chattels or personal-estate;" by
which such a will might, if uncontested, be admitted to probate at once; or, if contested, be dealt 'with -"according to
the testimony prodhced on both sides," and be admitted to
probate "on such proof as shall be sufficient 'to give efficacy
toa will or codicil for passing personal property ;" or, at the
request of either party, "by a plenary proceeding; upon bill or
petition, answer u nder bath, and depositions, and; it might be,

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

the findings of a jury upon issues sent to a court of law for
trial; with a right of appeal from the orphans' court to the
Court of Chancery or General Court.
By the law of -Maryland, and consequently of the District
of Columbia, in accordance with what was the law of England
until the statute of 1 Vict. c. 26, a will of personal property
need not be attested by subscribing witnesses, but might be
established, when offered for .probate, by the testimony of
any two witnesses, or by equivalent proof. 1 Williams on
Executors, (7th ed.) 85, 343 ; Dorsey's Testamentary Law, 57;
.Mclntire v. .Mclntire, ante, 383, and 8 Mackey,; (19 D. C.)
482, 489. A will of personal property, until admitted to probate, was not competent evidence in another suit. Armstrong
v. Lear, 12 Wheat. 169, 176. And in Maryland, under the
statute of 1798, an order granting or refusing probate of a
will, as to personalty, has been considered not merely prima
facie, but conclusive evidence in a subsequent suit. l1ac7ford
v. Colvin, 14 Maryland, 532, 554; Johns v. 11odges, 62 Maryland, 525, 534.
(1825) this court recognized that by a
In Darby v. iayer,
probate under that statute the will was conclusively established as to personalty; but decided that the clause of subchapter 2, § 4, above quoted, by which "an attested copy,
under the seal of office, of any will, testament or codicil,
recorded in 'any office authorized to record the same, shall be
admitted as evidence in any court of law or equity," did not
make such a copy of the recorded probate of a will evidence
of title to real estate; and the reasons of the court were
stated by Mr. Justice Johnson as follows:
"It is true that the generality of the terms in the first lines
of this clause is such as would, if unrestricted by the context,
embrace wills of lands. It is also true that the previous
chapter in- the same article prescribes the formalities necessary to give validity to devises of real estate; it is further
true that the previous sections of the second chapter indicate
the means, and impose the duty of delivering up wills of all
descriptions to the register of the court of probates, for safekeeping, after the death of the testator, and until they shall

CAMPBELL v. PORTER.
Opinion of the Court.

be demanded by some person authorized to demand them for
the purpose of proving them.
"But it is equally true that the act does not authorize the
registering of any will without probate. Nor does it, in any
one of its provisions, relate to -the. probafe of -any wills,
except wills of goods and chattels.
"The clause recited makes evidence of. such wills only, as
are recorded in the offices of courts authorized to record them.
But when the power of :taking probate is expressly limited
to the probate of wills of goods and chattels, we see not with
what propriety the meaning of the clause in question can be
extended to wills of any other description. The orphans'
court may take probates of wills, though .they affect lands,
provided they also affect goods and chattels; but the will,
nevertheless, is conclusively established only as to the personalty.
"Unless the words be explicit and imperative to the contrary, the construction must necessarily conform to the existing laws of the State on the subject of wills of real estate.
And when the power of taking probates is confined to wills
of personalty, we think the construction of the clause recited
must be limited by the context.
"We are, therefore, of opinion that there was nothing in
the law of Maryland which could, under the Constitution,
make the document offered to prove this will per se evidence
in a land cause." 10 Wheat. 465, 471,. 472.
In Robertsonm v. Pickrell, (1883) this court held that an
exemplified copy of the probate of a will of real estate in a
court of Virginia, authorized by the law of that State to take
probate of wills, as well of real estate as of personal property,
was incompetent evidence, in the courts of the District of
Columbiaj of title to real estate in the District; and, speaking by Mr. Justice Field, said: "In most of the States in the
Union, a will of real property must be admitted to probate in
some one-of their courts, before it can be received elsewhere
as a conveyance of such property. But by the law of Maryland, which governs in the District of Columbia, wills, so far
as real property is concerned, are not admitted to such pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Couit.

bate. The common law rule prevails on that subject. The
orphans' court there may, it is true, take the probate of wills,
though they affect lands, provided they affect chattels also ; but
the prbbate is evidence of the validity of the will, only so far
as the personal property is concerned. A8 an instrument conveying real property, the probate is not evidence of its execution.

That must be shown by a production of the instrument

itself, and proof by the subscribing witnesses; or, if they be
not living, by proof of their handwriting."

109 U. S. 608, 610.

In the State of Maryland, the statute of 1798 continued to
be in 'force until the legislature of Maryland, by the supplemental statute of 1831, c. 315, § 1, authorized the orphans'
courts to take the- probate of "any will, testament or codicil,
whether the same has relation to real or personal estate, or to
both real and personal estate," in the same manner as, under
the original statute, they might of wills disposing of personal
estate; "which said probate, as concerns real estate, shall be
deemed and takeh only as prima facie evidence of such will,
testament or codicil ;" and, in § 16, provided that any will
admitted to probate should be kept in the register's office,
except that it might, at the trial of an issue of devisavit vel non,
"be adduced in evidence under care of such register, or of any
person in that behalf by him deputed, under a s~upcena duces
tecum, issued on special order of the court holding such trial."
The statute of Maryland of 1854, c. 140, authorized copies
of wills and probates made in other States to be filed and
recorded in the office of the register of wills in any county in
Maryland ; and provided that a copy of the record, under the
hand of the regrister and the seal of his office, should "be
evidence in all suits or actions, at law and in equity, in any
court in this State, wherein the title of any property, -real or
personal, thereby devised or given, shall be in question, with
the same force and effect as if the original will had been admitted to probate in this State, according to the laws thereof.?'
Before that statute, the record of a probate in another State
was inadmissible in evidence in the courts of Maryland.
Budd v. Brooke, 3 'Gill, 198, 232; Beatty v. .fason, 30 Maryland, 409, 412.

CAMPBELL v. PORTER.
Opinion of the Court.

Congress never legislated upon the subject mentioned in
either of the last two statutbs of Maryland, until it passed the
act of July 9, 1888, c. 597, now in question, entitled "An act
relating to the record of wills in the District of Columbia,"

and the whole enacting part of which is so brief, that it may
well be quoted once more, as follows: "The record of any will
or codicil, heretofore or hereafter recorded in the office of. the
register of wills of the District of Columbia, which-shall have
been admitted to.probate by the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia, or by the late orphans' court of said district, or
the record of the transcript or the record and probate of any
will or codicil elsewhere, or of any certified -copy thereof, heretofore or, hereafter, filed in the office of said register of wills,
shall be primafacie evidence of the contents and due execution of such wills and codicils: Provided, that this act shall
not apply in any cause now pending in any of the courts of
the District of Columbia."
Before the passage of this act, as has been seen, neither the
Supreme Court of the District, of Columbia., nor its predecessor, the orphans' court, had any jurisdiction to admit to probate a will of real estate only; and, consequently, no record,
in any court' of the District, of a probate of a will would be
any evidence whatever of title to real estate; but, as to personal property, the probate of a will would seem to have been
regarded as conclusive evidence; and there was no statute
law in the District concerning thle record or the proof of wills
made and probated elsewhere.
The act of 1888 i§ a statute of evidence, and not of jurisdiction. It does not purport to confer any jurisdiction whatever.
Its title describes it as "relating to the record of wills." The
body of it is, in terms, a simple declaration that records of
probates of wills or codicils in the District of Columbia "shall
beprimafacieevidence of the contents and due execution of
such wills and codicils." And the concluding proviso, that it
shall not apply to pending -causes, treats it as a mere rule of
evidence.
The records thus made evidence include those of wills and
codicils admitted, to probate by the coflrts of the District,

OCTOBER TER-M2,

1895.

Opinion of the Court.

whether before or after the passage of the act, and also
records of probates made elsewhere, and filed in the register's
office here. The act assumes the probates to have been lawfully made; and it no more undertakes to define or to regulate the jurisdiction of the courts of probate of the District
for the future, than it does the jurisdiction bf those courts in
the past, or the jurisdiction of the courts elsewhere whose
proceedings filed here are equally made evidence.
The act gives no greater weight to future, than it does to past
probates and records. But if it made the record of a will, admitted to probate in the District of Columbia before the act,
evidence of title to real estate, it would not only give the probate an effect which could not have been in the mind of the
court which granted it; but it would, in many cases, make a
will effective to pass real estate, which had never been attested
as required by law to constitute a valid will for that purpose.
For example, take the case now before the court, supposing
it to have arisen before the passage of the act. The codicil
disposed of both real and personal property, and bore the
names of three witnesses. To prove it as a testamentary disposition of personal property, two witnesses were ample.
Therefore, if the court of .probate was satisfied that two only
of the witnesses whose names were on the paper saw the
testator sign or acknowledge it, the court would be bound to
admit it to probate, although, for want of a third witness,
there was no sufficient attestation or proof. to make it a good
will of real estate ; and yet the record of the -probate would
be evidence of title to real estate under the devise therein
contained.
The act not only does not (as did the statute of Maryland
of 1831, above cited) contain an express grant of jurisdiction
to take probate of Wills of real estate; but it does not mention such wills at all. The leading words, "The record of any
will or codicil," in the first line of this act, are no more general
than the corresponding words, -"An attested copy of any will,
testament or codicil," in the similar provision of the statute
of Maryland of 1798, which was held by this court, in Darby v.
.Mayer, before cited, not to embrace wills of real estate, which

CAMPBELL v. PORTER.
Opinion of the Court.

the courts had no authority to admit to probate, although that
statute in other clauses (as this act does not) applied by necessary implication, and even by express words, to such wills.
Congress, when framing the act of 1888, cannot be supposed
to have been ignorant of the provision relating to evidence in
the statute of 1798, which had been part of the law of the
District of Columbia for nearly ninety years; nor of the conistruction which this court had given to that provision; nor
yet of the want of any statute concerning records of wills
admitted to probate elsewhere.
There may be some difficulty in ascertaining the motive of
Congress in passing the act of 1888. But difficulty in ascertaining the motive of Congress is but a slight foundation for
attributing to it an intention, unexpressed, to confer upon the
courts of probate within the District of Columbia an authority
over wills of real estate which they never had before since the
District was first organized.
We regret to be compelled to differ. in opinion from the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, which, since the
decision below in the present case, has held that the record of
a will admitted to probate in. tle District before the passage
of the act of 1888..was competent evidence of the title to real
estate in an action brought since its passage. ]But the question appears by the report not to have been argued by counsel, or much discussed by the court. Barbour v. .Moore, 4
D. C. App. 535, 543, 544.
The result is that the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, upon the application for probate of the codicil in question,
had no authority to determine upon its sufficiency to pass real
estate; and that its order in this respect must be modified.
That the codicil was sufficiently proved to pass personal
property was not controverted at the bar.
Judgment reversed, and case remandedfor further proceedings in conformity with this optinion.
MR. CHIEF Jusr cE FULLER

and decision of this case.

took no part in the consideration

