OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

MONTGOMERY v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 186. Submitted March 21, 1696.-

Decided April 13. 1596.

Goode v. United 8tates, 159 U. S. 663, followed in holding that in the trial of an
indictment against a letter carrier, charged with secreting, embezzling or
destroying a letter containing money in United States currency, the fact

that the letter was a decoy is no defence.
The carrier's duties are the same, whether the letters are genuine or decoys.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
,Xr. Lewis Skepherd and .r.

Creed F. Bates for plaintiff in.

error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General TMkitney for defendants in

error.
iMi,

JUsTICE

SHiRAS delivered the, dpinion of the court.

Thomas M. Montgomery, the plaintiff in error, was indicted
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Tennessee, for the crime of embezzling and stealing,
on March 8 and 9, 1890, certain letters containing money in
United States currency, which had come into his possession as
a railway postal clerk or route agent, on the railway mail route
between Chattanooga, Tennessee, and Bristol, Tennessee. The
defendant was tried, convicted and sentenced to be confined at
hard labor for the term of two years in the penitentiary at
-Columbus, Ohio.
At the trial it appeared that the letters taken had been
mailed for the purpose of detecting the defendant; in other
words, were "decoy" letters; and thereupon the defendant
asked the court to instruct the jury that, as the letters taken
were mailed for the purpose of entrapping defendant into the
commission of a crime, there could be no conviction of the
defendant for the taking of said letters.
The refusal of the court to so charge is the subject of the
first assignment of error.

BRYANI

v. KALES.,

Syllabus.

To dispose of this .assignment it is sufficient to cite the case
of Goode v. United States, 159 U. S. 663, where it was held
that, in an indictment against a letter carrier charged with
secreting, embezzling or destroying a letter containing postage stamps, the fact that the letter was a decoy is no defence.
Error was likewise assigned to the refusal of the court to
charge that there was a fatal variance between the indictment
and proof in respect to the description of the letters, for the
stealing or embezzling of which the defendant was indicted.
In the indictment it was averred that the letters in question
had come into the defendant's possession as a railway postal
clerk, to be conveyed by mail and to be delivered to the persons addressed. It was disclosed by the evidence that the
letters and money thus mailed belonged to the inspectors who
mailed them, and were to be intercepted and withdrawn from
the mails by them before they reached the persons to whom
they were addressed.
There is no merit in this assignment. The letters put in
evidence corresponded, in address and contents, to the letters
described in the indictment, and it made no difference, with
respect to the duty of the carrier, whether the letters were
genuine or decoys with a fictitious address. Substantially this
question was ruled in the case. of Goode v. United States, above
cited.
The judgment of the court -below is
Affrmed.

BRYAN ,.
APPEAL FROM THE

KALES.

IUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.

X6.198. "Submitted December 19, IS5. -Declded

April 18, 1896.

When a mortgagee is in possession of the mortgaged real estate, claiming
under a foreclosure sale, one -claiming under the mortgagoi cannot, by
setting up that the foreclosure proceedings were invalid, maintain ejectment to recover.the premises, without first offci'ing to redeem .and tendering payment of the mortgage debt.

