OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

larger part of which was recently in slavery, lies in a rigid adherence to those principles. Their safety - indeed, the peace
of the country and the liberties of all- would be imperilled,
if the judicial tribunals of the land permitted any departure
from those principles based upon discrimination against a
particular class because of their race. We recognize the possession of all these rights by the defendant; but upon a careful
consideration of all the points of which we can take cognizance, and which have been so forcibly presented by his counsel, who are of his race, and giving him the full benefit of the
salutary principles heretofore announced by this court in the
cases cited in his behalf, we cannot find from the record before
us that his rights secured by the supreme law of the land were
violated by the trial court or disregarded by the highest court
of Mississippi. We cannot say that any error of law of which
this court may take cognizance was committed by the courts
of the State, nor, as matter of law, that the conviction of the
accused of the crime of murder was due to prejudice of race.
The judgment is, therefore,
Affirmed.

CHARLEY SMITH v. MISSISSIPPI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 710. Argued and submitted December 13, 16, 1895. -Decided

April 18, 1896.

An affidavit to a petition for removal filed under section 641 of the Revised
Statutes, to the effect that the facts therein stated are true to the best

of the knowledge and belief of the accused, is not evidence in support
of a motion to quash the indictment, unless the prosecutor agrees that

it may be so used,' or unless by the order of the trial court it is treated
as evidence.
A motion to quash an indictment against a person of African descent upon
the ground that it was found by a grand jury from which were excluded
because of their race persons of the race to which the accused belongs

can be sustained only by evidence independently of the facts stated in
the motion to quash.

CHARLEY SMITH v. MISSISSIPPI.
Statement- of the Case.

TiE plaintiff in error, Charley Smith, was charged by indictment in the Circuit Court of Bolivar county, Mississippi,
with having, on the 14th day of May, 1894, in that county,
wilfully, feloniously and of malice aforethought killed and
murdered one Wiley Nesby.
Before arraignment the accused moved, upon grounds stated
in writing, t quash the indictment. One of those grounds
was that the grand jurors who presented the indictment were
not impartial, "as guaranteed by the coiistitution of the State
aforesaid and of the United States, of which the defendant is
'
a citizen of color, black;" another, "because
b
of the prejudice
against him and his race on account of their color, the grand
jury aforesaid was purposely selected of the white race, to the
exclusion of the colored persons of the county competent for
jury service, by the officers charged therewith, under the
state law, on account of their color, for the purpose of procuring this indictment against defendant in violation of his
constitutional right to be tried for his life upon the charge of
murder herein in the Circuit [Court] of Bolivar. county, State
aforesaid;" still another, that the grand jury "was not a duly
elected and legally empanelled grand jury as contemplated in
the guarantees of the constitution of the State of Mississippi,
and the Constitution of the United States."
The motion to quash the indictment was overruled. The
record shows that the defendant duly excepted to the action
of the court, but does not show that any evidence was introduced in support of the motion.
The accused was then arraigned and pleaded not guilty.
He demanded a special venire. Thereupon fifty names were
drawp from the jury box in open court, and process was
issued for those persons.
The case having been continued, the accused at the next
term made an application. by petition for the removal of the
cause for trial into the Circuit Court of the United States for
the western division of the Southern District of Mississippi.
The petition is here given in full:
"This petition respectfully shows that Charley Smith, a
citizen of the United States, is in custody of the sheriff of
VOL. CLX-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

Bolivar county, Mississippi, by virtue of an indictment presented by what purports to have been a regular grand jury
for the May term of said Circuit Court, 1894, upon a charge
of murder. Relator states that he is a citizen of the State of
Mississippi, and that under the constitution of said State, section 14 thereof, he is guaranteed that for such an offence he
shall first be presented and tried by an impartial jury. Further, that he shall not be deprived of his liberty or of his life
in the State aforesaid except by due process of law, and that
said state constitution, as shown and prescribed in section 264
thereof, which qualifications shall be required of jurors, grand
and petit, in the said State; and that the statute of 1892 of
said State, styled the Annotated Code of Mississippi, adopted
by the state legislature on -day
of April, 1892, prescribes
new and separate requirements for jurors, different, separate
and distinct from those requirements fixed by the constitution
of said State, to wit: The constitution of the State prescribes,
section 264, that all qualified electors able to read and write
shall be competent to serve as jurors in the courts of the State.
The statnte of said State, viz., the Annotated Code of 1892,
section thereof, provides that the board of supervisors of
said county shall use as a guide (in selecting names of persons
to serve as jurors for the two terms of the Circuit Court next,
respectively, to be holden after the 'then list being prepared
by them, the said board of supervisors) the registration roll
of legal voters of the county, and that they shall select for
jurors to serve as aforesaid persons of ' good intelligence, fair
character and sound judgment;' and such of said statute is
in conflict with the constitution of said State. Further, the
record of the board of supervisors of said county shows that
the list of jurors averring to have been drawn by them for
the term then next to follow, being the said May term, 1894,
was prepared under an order of said board of said county,
which is as follows: ' Ordered by the board that the following named persons be, and are hereby, selected to serve as
petit jurors for the next term of the Circuit Court,' which
said order of said board fails to show upon its face that the
list so selected for the purpose aforesaid was selected from

CHARLEY SMITH v. MISSISSIPPI.
Statement of the Case.

the registration roll of said county; said order fails to show
that the persons so named in the list were citizens of said
county, or were selected according to the laws of the State,
or that they were qualified voters, duly registered according
to law, and further fails to show that they, the persons so
selected, were so selected to serve in Bolivar county, State
aforesaid. Relator further states that the certificate of the
circuit clerk of the said county, the sheriff of said county,
and the chancery clerk of said county, which is attached to
the list of names drawn from the jury box, constituting the
petit jurors for the first week of said, May term of Circuit
Court of said county and copied in the minutes of the first
day's proceedings of the said court, is void: First, because
the circuit clerk, J. E. Ousley, did not, personally attend the
drawing of said list, but said certificate shows that he was
represented in said drawing by deputy clerk. The statute
prescribes that the circuit clerk shall officiate at said drawing, which must not be more than 15 days before first day of
said term. Second, because the said officers charged with the
drawing of said jurors failed to certify, as the law directs,
'whether the envelopes containing the names appeared to
have been opened or disfigured,' and this list of names contained the names of the persons who were selected by the
COircuit Court on the first day of said May term, 1894, as
grand jurors, which grand jury presented relator on said
indictment.
*" :Relator charges that the said officers charged with the selection, listing and drawing said jury list, preparatory to the holding of the said May term of said Circuit Court, wilfully and
intentionally excluded all colored men from the said list of jurors
on account of the fact of their color, and that relator is a colored
man charged with murder, and that at the time the said jury list
was selected, listed and drawn) as aforesaid, there were in the
county of Bolivar 1300 or more duly registered colored voters
in said county, and 300 white voters upon the registration roll'
of said county; the white voters registered did not outnumber
the colored voters, and that had the registration roll been used
as their guide, as the law directs, they would have drawn some

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

colored voters' names; but to the prejudice of defendant in
the indictment and relator therein, said colored voters were,
on account of their color, purposely excluded, and no black
person has been summoned to serve as such juror in said
county since the adoption of the new constitution on account
of the great prejudice against the black race by those in authority, and of the white race, and relator asks subpenas for
said officers to prove same. Relator charges that his right to
equal protection by the laws of the State, as guaranteed in
Article Fourteen of the Amendments to the Constitution of
the United States, was purposely ignored on account of his
cblor and race by the officers charged with the selection of
said jury at said term. This he is ready to prove, and prays
subpcenas for said officers. That he is not indicted according
to the due course of the law of the said State, and therefore
prays that his trial under said indictment be removed-from
this court to the United States Circuit Court for the western
division of the Southerf District of the State of Mississippi,
and that the record bear evidence of such 'an order of this
court, and that said removal of said case be granted by this
court upon such terms and conditions as the law directs."
The petition to remove the cause was verified by the oath
of the accused to the effect that the facts set out -in it were
"true to the best of his knowledge and information and
belief."
The application to remove the cause into the Circuit Court
of the United States for trial, was denied, and the accused
excepted to this action of the state court.
The defendant then moved that the trial be postponed to a
future day of the term on account of the absence of certain
witnesses, without whose testimony,-he alleged, he could not
safely go to trial. Evidence was heard upon this motion, and
the application to postpone the trial was denied.
The accused moved to quash the venire of jurors summoned
for te second week of the term upon the following grounds:
"Because they have not been regularly drawn from the jury
box by the officers of the county whose duty it is under the
law to draw the venire for the second week of said term,

CHARLEY SMITH v. MISSISSIPPI.
Statement of,the Case.

to wit, the chancery and circuit clerks and sheriff of the
county, and that said list of the venire, as appears in the record of the first day's proceedings of the term, is not certified
to by the officers of the county charged with the selection of
the jury as the law directs, but said jury as now answers to
their call as said vehire for said week is an illegal venire, and
a trial by said jurors or any of them as such venire will be
.contrary to his rights under the constitution of the State of
Mississippi and his rights under the Constitution of the United
States, and that defendant, being a citizen of the State of
Mississippi and of the United States, he insists upon his right
to be tried for this offence by due course of law."
The motion was denied, and the defendant excepted. It
does not appear from the record that any elidence was introduced in support of this motion.
The accused having received the panel of jurors, moved that
-the same be quashed upon the following grounds: "Because
-the said jury is made up of persons whose names are upon the
i-ecord as jurors for the .second week of the said term of the
-court, and said list of jurors, constituting the venire for
the second week of said term so summoned by the sheriff of
the county, was not drawn from the jury box of the county
by the chancery -clerk and circuit clerk and sheriff of the said
-county, which the law directs. Nor do the officers of the said
.county, charged with the drawing of said venire under the
law, to wit, as aforesaid, certify to said list so appearing on
the minutes of the first day of the said term, and there is no
record that such list as does appear, purporting to be said
venire for said week, was drawn from the jury box of the
county, and said panel is void because composed of persons
named being exclusively white jurors chosen on account of
their color, as such jurors so illegally summoned to serve and
now tendered defendant, he being a, negro of the black race,
and persons of his race and color were purposely, on account
of their color, excluded by said officers of the law. Defendant is a citizen of the State of M ississippi and of the United
States, and insists upon hiq right to be tried by due course of
law, as guaranteed him under the rights incorporated in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Statement of the Case.

constitution of the State of Mississippi and the Constitution of
the United States, and the panel now tendered him, from
which members of his race are purposely excluded by the
officers charged therewith for no other reason than their
color, and that 1500 colored men duly qualified to serve as
jurors being in the county, to 500 whites, is an abridgment
of his rights under the Federal Constitution."
It does not appear that. any evidence was introduced or
offered in support of this motion to quash, and the motion
was overruled, the defendant excepting.
During the examination of jurors on their voir dire the
accused excepted to certain jurors, but not upon any grounds
that involved rights secured by the Constitution of the
United States.
The trial of the case was then entered upon, and the
defendant was found guilty of murder, and sentenced to
suffer the punishment of death.
The record contained the following minute: "On the 6th
day of December, 1894, being a day of the said criminal term
of said court, the defendant having informed the court on
the day of his conviction, before sentence was pronounced
on him by the court, that he wished to -be allowed to prepare a motion in arrest of judgment, the court held that the
motion in arrest of judgment and the motion for a new trial
could not be made in one motion, but on said 5th day aforesaid
the court ordered counsel to present both motions in one;
that it would fine defendant's counsel for contempt unless
he combined the motion in arrest of judgment and the
motion for a new trial, that both might be heard as one
mQtion, to which action the defendant then and there excepted."
A motion for a new trial was made and denied. Among
the grounds of that motion were that the"court erred in overruling: 1. The defendant's motion to quash the indictment.
2. His application for a removal of the cause to the United
States Circuit Court. 3. The motion to quash the weekly
venire. 4. The motion to quash the panel. Other grounds
were that the defendant was not tried by a jury fairly and

CHARTI Y SMITH v. MISSISSIPPI.
Counsel for Parties.

impartially selected according to the laws of Mississippi and
the Constitution of the United States, and was not convicted
by due process of law, but was denied. equal protection under
the laws of the State on account of his race.
The case was carried, upon writ of error, to the Supreme
Court of MissIssippi, one of the errors assigned being, that the
application for the removal of the cause into the Circuit
Court of the United States for trial was improperly overruled.
The judgment of conviction was affirmed' by that court.
Its opinion was as follows:
"The action of the court below in overruling the application for removal was not error. See -John Gibson v. State,
decided at the present term of this court. The motion to
quash the indictment was properly denied. There was either
no evidence offered in support of the motion, or, if offered, it
does not appear in the record, and in this case we can do
nothing but affirm the action of the court in denying this
motion. The affidavit appended to the motion in its'terms
affords no sort of evidence (even if it had been agreed to be
considered as such, as was the case in _NVeal v. Delaware, 103
U. S. 370) that the affiant had any personal, knowledge touching any of the facts relied upon as grounds for upholding.
the motion. It was made 'as to the affiant's knowledge
and belief, ' and yet the affiant may have no petsonal knowledge whatever as to any of the material facts. The affidavit
was not evidence to support the motion. In Ndal v. -Delaware, supra, the verified petition for removal was treated by
the court as evidence for the motion to quash, because of the
agreement of the Attorney General of Delaware with the
prisoner's counsel to that, effect, as the same was construed
by the majority of the court."
Mr. Cornelius J. Jones for plaintiff in error. Mr. Emanuel
M. Hewlett was with him on his brief.
r. Frank Johnston, attorney general of Mississippi, submitted on his brief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JUSTIoE HARLAN,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
1. For the reasons stated in the opinion of the court in
Gibson v. X~issi.ssipyi, ante, 565, just decided, it must be adjudged that the petition of the accused for the removal of the
prosecution into the Circuit Court of the United States was
properly denied. Neither the constitution nor the laws of
Mississippi, by their language reasonably interpreted, or as
interpreted by the highest court of the State, show that the
accused was denied or could not enforce in the judicial tribunals of the State, or in the part of the State where such suit
or prosecution is pending, "any right secured to him by any
law providing for the equal civil rights of citizens of the
United States, or of all persons within the United States."
Rev. Stat. § 6411.
2. No evidence was offered in support of the motion by
the accused to quash the indictment, unless the facts set out
in the written motion to quash, verified "to the best of his
knowledge and belief," can be regarded as evidence in support
of the motion. We are of opinion that it could not properly
be so regarded. The case differs from Neal v. Delaware, 103
U. S. 370, 394, 396. In that case, upon the hearing of the
motion to quash the indictment, based upon grounds similar
to those here presented, it was agreed between the State, by
its attorney general, and the prisoner, by his counsel, with
the assent of the court, that the statements and allegations in
the petition for removal should be taken and treated, and
given the same force and effect, in the consideration and decision of the motions, "as if said statements and allegations
were made and verified by the defendant in a separate and
distinct affidavit." We said in that case: "The only object
which the prisoner's counsel could have had in filing the affidavit was to establish the grounds upon which the motions to
quash were rested. It was in the discretion of the court to
hear the motions upon affidavit. No counter affidavits were
filed in behalf of the prosecution." Again: "We are of
opinion that the motions to quash, sustained by the affidavit

CHARLEY SMITH v. MISSISSIPPI.
Opinion of the Court.

'of the accused - which appears to have been filed in support
*ofthe motions, without objection as to its competency as en-dence, and was uncontradicted by couftter affidavits, or even
by a formal denial of the grounds assigned- should have
been sustained. If, under the practice which obtains in the
courts of the State, the affidavit of the prisoner could not, if
.objected to, be used as evidence in support of a motion to
-quash, the State could waive that objection, either expressly
-or by not making it at the proper time. No such objection
appears to have been made by its attorney general. On the
:contrary, the agreement that the prisoner's verified petition
.should be Greated as an affidavit 'in the consideration and
-decision' of the motions, implied, as we think, that the State
was willing to risk their determination upon the case as made
by that affidavit, in connection, of course, with any facts of
which the court might take judicial notice." The casb before
us is presented, so far as the present question is concerned, in
-a different aspect. The facts stated in the written motion to
.quash, although that motion was verified by the affidavit of
the accused, could not be used as evidence to establish those
facts, except with the consent of the state prosecutor or by
-order of the trial court. No such consent was given. No
,such order was made. The, grounds assigned for quashing
the indictment should have been sustained by distinct evi•dence introduced or offered to be introduced by the accused.
He could not, of right,.insist that the facts stated in the mo-tion to quash should be taken as true simply because his
motion was verified by his affidarit. The motion to quash
was, therefore, unsupported by any competent evidence; consequently, it cannot beheld to have been erroneously denied.
3. It is assigned for error that the trial court refused to
postpone the trial, to quash the weekly venire of jurors and
the panel of jurors, or to sustain the exception of the accused
to the qualifications of jurors tendered to him. None of these
motions are so presented by the record as to raise any question as to the deprivation of rights secured to the accused
by the Constitution or laws of the United States.
4. The overruling of the motion for a new trial is not a

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Syllabus.

matter which this court can refxamine upon writ of error
- the granting or refusing of such a motion being a matter
within the discretion of the trial court.
5. In view of the order of the trial court directing the motion for a new trial and a motion to arrest the judgment to be
embraced in one motion, we have, in our consideration of the
case, treated the motion for new trial as having been intended
to be also one to arrest the judgment. We are of opinion,
for the reasons stated in Gibson v. Mississippi,as well as in
this opinion, that no error of law was committed by the trial
court in declining to arrest the judgment. As the application
to remove the cause into the Circuit Court of the United
States was properly overruled, and as the motion to quash
the indictment was, for the reasons above stated, also properly overruled, the order refusing to arrest the judgment cannot be held to be erroneous upon any ground of which this
court can take cognizance in its review of the proceedings of
the Supreme Court of JMississippi.
It results that the judgment must be

Ajfirmed.

FEE v. BROWN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF COLORADO.
NoA. 5. Submitted March 20, 1896.-Decided April 27, 1696.

The reservations granted by provision "First" in § 1 of the act of December 19, 1854, c. 7, 10 Stat. 598, "to provide for the extinguishment of
the title of the Chippewa Indians to the lands owned aud claimed by
them," etc., are limited to the territory ceded by the Indians, both
as applied to Indians of pure blood, and to Indians of mixed blood.
The scrip certificates, under which the defendant in error claims, were
intended to be located only by half-breeds to whom they were issued,
and patents were to be issued only to the persons named in those certificates; and, consequently, the right to alienate the lands was not given
until after the issue of the patents.
The act of June 8, 1872, c. 357, 17 Stat. 340, "to perfect certain land titles,"
etc., was intended to permit a purchaser of such scrip certificates, who
through them had acquired an invalid title to public land, to perfect
that title by compliance with the terms of that statute.

