OCTOBER TERMN,

1895.

Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

defendant was arraigned and did plead. To reverse the
judgment upon the pure technicality (raised in this court
for the first time) that the record does not in terms show an
arraignment and a plea, where the presumption arising from
the contents of the record is that both occurred, is to my
mind a sacrifice of justice to the merest and most formal
kind of an objection, founded upon an unjustifiable presumption of error and entirely at war with the facts as they
occurred. If the statute cited in the opinion of the court,
Rev. Stat. § 1025, do not apply to a case such as this, it is
difficult to think of one for which its provisions could more
properly be invoked.
The judgment should be
Afflrmed.
I am authQrized to state that MR. JUSTIE BR wEn and MR.
JUSTICE WHITE concur in this opinion.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v.
JAMES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
No. 206. Argued and submitted April 2, 1896.-Decided May 4, 1896.

The statute of the State of Georgia of October 22, 1887, requiring every
telegraph company with a line of wires, wholly or partly within that
State, to receive dispatches, and, on payment of the usual charges, to

transmit and deliver them with due diligence, under a penalty of one
hundred dollars, is a valid exercise of the power of the State in relation
to messages by telegraph from points outside of and directed to some
point within the State.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

.3r. John F. Dillon,(with whom were .fr. George H1. Fearons
and .r. Rus8& Taggart on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.

No appearance for defendant in error.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH CO. v. JAMES.

651

Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JusTICE, PEoxriA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought by the defendant in error against
the telegraph company to recover the amount of a penalty
which the plaintiff below alleged the company had incurred,
and also to recover damages which the plaintiff alleged he
had sustained by reason of the failure of the company to
promptly deliver a telegraphic dispatch directed to plaintiff
at his residence in Blakely, in the State of Georgia.
The statute under which the action was brought was passed
by the legislature of the above named State, October 22, 1887,
and reads as follows:
"An act to prescribe the duty of electric telegraph companies as to receiving and transmitting dispatches, to prescribe
penalties for violations thereof, and for other puiposes.
"SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the general assembly of the State
of Georgia, and it is hereby enacted by authority of the same,
'that from and after the passage of this act, every electric telegraph company with a line of wires, wholly or partly in this
State, and engaged 'in telegraphing for the public, shall, during
the usual office hours, receive dispatches, whether from other
telegraphic lines or from individuals; and, on payment of the
usual charges according to the regulations of such company,
shall transmit and deliver the same with impartiality and
good faith, and with due diligence, under penalty of one hundred dollars, which penalty may be recovered' by suit in a
justice or other court having jurisdiction thereof, by either the
sender of the dispatch, or the person to whom sent or directed,
whichever may first sue: Provided, that nothing herein shall
be construed as impairing or in any way modifying the right
of any person to recover damages for any such breach of
contract or duty by any telegraph company, and said penalty
and said damages may, if the party so elect, be recovered in
the same suit.
"SEc. 2. Be it further enacted, that such companies shall
deliver all dispatches to the persons to whom the same are
addressed or to their agents, on payment of any charges due
for the same. Provided,such persons or agents reside within

652

OCTOBER TERVf, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

one mile of the telegraphic station or within the city or town
in which such station is.
"SEo. 3. Be it further enacted, that in all cases the liability
of said companies for messages in cipher, in whole or in part,
shall be the same as though the same were not in cipher.
"SEc. 4. Be it further enacted, that all laws or parts of
laws in conflict with this act be, and the same are hereby,
repealed."
The plaintiff recovered in the trial court the statutory penalty of $100, sued for, and also the sum of $242.60 damages,
for the non-delivery of the telegram in question, and upon
appeal to the Supreme Court of Georgia that court reversed
the judgment as far as it was based upon the actual damages
claimed but affirmed it for the penalty of $100, provided for by
the statute above quoted. Under the direction of the Supreme
Court the plaintiff remitted the claim for damages, and accordingly the judgment for the penalty and for costs was affirmed,
and from that judgment the company prosecuted a writ of
error from this court.
The defendant by its answer denied that it had been guilty
of any violation of the statute in question, and among other
defences it set up by an amended plea that the plaintiff ought
not to recover the statutory penalty of $100 sued for, because
the message in question was an interstate message and part of
interstate commerce. Upon the trial the court in its charge to
the jury stated: "I charge you that if the defendant telegraph
company undertook to transmit to this place a message which
had been paid for at the other end of the line and did fail to
deliver the message to James within a reasonable time from
the time it was received, the plaintiff is entitled to recover for
the failure to deliver $100 as a penalty fixed upon that act by
law." The court also charged as follows: "I charge you that
if you find that the message was not delivered within a reasonable time under the attending circumstances, your verdict
should be for the plaintiff upon both propositions," which included the claim for the penalty and for. actual damages.
The following facts are stated in the bill of exceptions: The
plaintiff, who was a cotton merchant in Blakely, Georgia, on

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH CO. v. JAMES.

653

Opinion of the Court.

the 4th day of November, 1890, sent a message from his residence to Tullis & Co., who were in the same business in
Eufaula, in the State of Alabama, offering to sell certain cotton
on terms named in the message, and asked to have an answer
that night. Tullis & Co. received the message on that day
and at once sent a message in reply accepting the offer of the
plaintiff upon certain conditions. This message was received
at Blakely late in the evening of November 4, but was not
delivered until the morning of November 5. The plaintiff
alleged that the delivery was not made with due diligence,
and the result of the delay in the delivery of the message was
as he stated, the loss of the sale of the cotton upon the terms
mentioned in the message. He therefore brought his action
to recover both the penalty and the actual damages which he
alleged he had sustained by reason of this failure on the part
of the company to deliver the' message with due diligence. By
the decision of the Supreme Court the claim for damages was
not sustained, and the .judgment given was solely for the
penalty.
The only question, therefore, before this court is whether
the statute of the State of. Georgia, providing for the recovery
of such penalty, is a valid exercise of the power of the State
in relation to messages by telegraph from points outside and
directed to sonie point within the State of Georgia.
The plaintiff in error insists that the act in question is a
violation of that portion of section 8 of Article I of the Federal Constitution, which empowers Congress "to regulate commerce with foreign -nations and among the several States and
with the Indian tribes." The validity of the statute is based
upon the general power of the State to enact such laws .in
relation to persons and property within its bordem as may
promote the public health, the public morals and the general
prosperity and safety of its inhabitants. This pow.er is somewhat generally described as the police power of the State, a
detailed definition of Which has been said to be .difficult, if
not impossible to give. However extensive the power may
be, it cannot encroach upon the powers of the 'Federal government in regard to rights granted or secured by the Federal

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
)pinion of the Court.

Constitution. New Orleans Gas Co. v. Louisiana Light Co.,
115 U. S. 650, 661; Walling v. .Michigan, 116 U. S. 446, 460;
Gulf, Colorado & Santa .Fj Railway v. Hiefley, 158 U. S. 98.
It has been settled by the adjudications of this court that
telegraph lines, when extending through different States, are
instruments of commerce which are protected by the above
clause in the Federal Constitution, and that the messages
passing over such lines from one State to another constitute
a portion of commerce itself. Pensacola Telegraph Co. v.
W estern. Union Telegraph Co., 96 U. S. 1; Telegraph Co. v.
Texas, 105 U. S. 460; Wfestern Union Telegraph Co. v. P7endleton, 122 U. S. 347. Such messages come within the protectin'g clause of the Constitution just quoted, and if the statute
in question can-be construed as regulating commerce between
the States, the statute would be invalid on that account.
The Congress of the United States, by the act of July 24,
1866, c. 230, 14 Stat. 221, legislated upon the subject of telegraph companies. That legislation has become a part of the
United States Revised Statutes, §§ 5263 to 5269, both inclusive. The sections referred to do not, however, touch the
subject-matter of the delivery of messages as provided for in
the state statute. The provision in the section of the Revised
Statutes as to the precedence to be given to the messages
of officers of the government in relation to their official
business are not inconsistent with or in any manner opposed
to the provisions of the Georgia act, nor are they upon the
same subject within the meaning of the rule which permits
state legislation in some instances only until Congress shall
have spoken.
The company now contends that under the cases decided
in this court, some of which are above cited, and by reason
of the act of Congress just mentioned, it is so far within the
commerce clause of the Federal Constitution as to be protected from any state legislation of the character of the act
in question. It is urged that although there is no statute
of Congress expressly providing a penalty for a failure to
deliver telegraphic messages impartially and with due dili-'
gence, yet, still the very fact of the absence of such legisla-

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH 00. v. JAMES.

655

Opinion of the Court.

tion is equivalent to a declaration by Congress that no p6nalty
should be affixed, and that the company should be left free
to pursue its business untrammelled by any state legislation
upon the subject.
In regard to those matters relating to commerce which are
not of a nature to'be affected by locality, but which necessarily ought to be the same over the whole country, it has
been frequently held that the silence of Congress upon such
a subject, over which it had unquestioned jurisdiction, was
equivalent to a declaration that in those respects commerce
should be free and unregulated by any statutory enactment.
Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275, 282; Eall v. De Cuiir, 95
U. S. 485, 490. The matters upon which the silence of Congress is equivalent to affirmative legislation are national in
their character, and such as to fairly require uniformity
of regulation upon the subject-matter involved affecting all
the States alike. .Mobile County v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691.
In Covington &c. Bridge Co. v. -Kentucky,154 U. S. 204,
209, Mr. Justice Brown, in delivering the opinion of the court,.
said: "The adjudications of this court with respect to the
power of the State over the general subject of commerce
are divisible into three classes: First, those in which the
power of the- State is exclusive; second, those in which the
States may act in the absence of legislation by Congress;
third, those in which the action of Congress is exclusive and
the State cannot interfere at all."
On page 211 of the
report are cited many cases as coming within the" second
class, among which are laws for the regulation of pilots;
for quarantine and inspection; for policing harbors; improving navigable channels; regulating wharves, piers and docks;
constructing dams and bridges across navigable waters of a
State; and also laws for the establishment of ferries. In relation to the power of Congress to regulate commerce in cases
of the second class, it is said that it is not its mere existence
but its exercise by Congress which may be incompatible with
the exercise of the same power by States, and that the States
may legislate in the absence of Congressional regulations.
Sturges v. Grownins ield, 4 Wheat. 122, 193. When the sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

jects in regard to which the laws are enacted, instead of b.,ing
of a local nature affecting interstate commerce but incidentally, are national in their character, then the non-action of
Congress indicates its will that such commerce shall be free
and untrammelled. It has been held that it is not every
enactment which may incidentally affect commerce and the
persons engaged in it that necessarily constitutes a regulation
of commerce within the meaning of the Constitution. Sherlock
v. Alling, 93 U. S. 99; State Tax on Railway Gross Receipts,
15 Wall. 284; -Mobile County v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691;
Smith v. Alabama, 121 U. S. 465.. A state statute was held
valid in this last cited case, which provided for an examination of engineers of locomotives by a state board of examiners, and it was applied to an engineer engaged in running a
locomotive on one continuous trip from Mobile in Alabama to
Corinth in Mississippi. It was held to be a valid police regulation.
Legislation which is a mere aid to commerce may be enacted
by a State, although at the same time it may incidentally
affect commerce itself. Mobile County v. .fimball, 102 U. S.,
already cited.
On the other hand, a state statute which only assumed to
regulate those engaged in interstate commerce, while passing
through the particular State, has been held void because it in
effect and necessarily regulated and controlled the conduct of
such persons throughout the entire voyage, which stretched
through several States. Such is the case of Hlall v. De Cuir,
95 U. S. 485, 489.
The statute in that case, after providing that common carriers of passengers should have the right to refuse certain
classes of undesirable and improper persons passage on their
vehicles, gave the power to carriers to expel such persons after
admission, and also gave them power to expel all who should
commit any act in violation of the rules and regulations prescribed for the management of the business of the carrier
after such rules and regulations should have been made
known, "provided such rules and regulations make no discriminatibn on account of race or color;" and the statute also

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH CO. v. JAMES.

657

Opinion of the Court.

prohibited all persons engaged in the business of common
carriers of passengers, except in the cases enumerated, from
refusing admission to their conveyances or from expelling
therefrom any person whatsoever. The plaintiff was a person
of color and took passage upon the steamboat owned by the
defendant's intestatb on her trip up the river from New
Orleans to Hermitage, both within the State of Louisiana.
Being refused accommodations on account of her color in the
cabin especially set apart for white persons, she brought an
action under the provisions of the state act above referred to
for the purpose of recovering damages sustained on account
of such refusal. The defence set up was that the statute was
inoperative and void as to the owner of the steamboat, because as to his business it was an attempt to regulate commerce among the States, and it was so held here. Although,
in the case in question, the passage was taken from and to a
point both of which were within the State of Louisiana, it
was held that such fact was not material; that the effect of
the statute necessarily was to regulate interstate commerce.
The court, speaking by Mr. Chief Justice Waite, said:
"While it purports only to control the carrier when engaged within the State, it must necessarily influence his
conduct to some extent in the management of his business
throughout his entire voyage. His disposition of passengers
taken up and put down within the State, or taken up within
to be carried without, cannot but affect in a greater or
less degree tjaose taken up without and brought within, and
sometimes those taken up and put down without. A passenger in the cabin set apart for the use of whites without
the State must, when the boat comes within, share the acconhmodations of that cabin 'With such colored persons as may
come on board afterwards; if the law is enforced.
"It was to meet just such a case that the co,,,mercial cla use
in the Constitution was adopted. The river Mississippi passes
through or along the borders of ten different States, and its
tributaries reach many more. The commerce upon these
waters is immense, and its regulation clearly'a matter of
national concern. If each State was at liberty to regulate the
VOL. cimx-

42

OCTOBER TERNM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

conduct of carriers while within its jurisdiction, the confusion
likely to follow could not but be productive of great inconvenience and unnecessary hardship. Each State could provide
for its own passengers and regulate the transportation of its
own freight, regardless of the interests of others. Nay more,
it could prescribe rules by which the carrier must be governed
within the State in respect to passengers and property brought
from without. On one side of the river or its tributaries he
might be required to observe one set of rules, and on the other
another. Commerce cannot flourish in the midst of such
embarrassments. No carrier of passengers can conduct his business with satisfaction to himself, or comfort to those employing him, if on one side of a state line his passengers, both
white and colored, must be permitted to occupy the same
cabin, and on the other be kept separate. Uniformity in the
regulations by which he is to be governed from one end to
the other of his route is a necessity in the business, and to
secure it Congress, which is untrammelled by state lines, has
been invested with the exclusive legislative power of deterinining what such regulations shall be."
It is seen from this reasoning that the foundation for holding the act void was that it necessarily affected the conduct
of the carrier and regulated him in the performance of his
duties outside and beyond the limits of the State enacting the
law. A provision for the delivery of telegraphic messages
arriving at a station within the State is not of the same nature
as that statute and would have no such effect upon the conduct of the telegraph company with regard to the performance of its duties outside the State.
In Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Pendleton, 122 U. S.
347, 358, the State of Indiana required telegraph companies
to deliver dispatches by messenger to the persons to whom
the same were addressed, or to their agents, provided they
resided within one mile of the telegraph company's station
within the city or town within which such station was. That
statute was held to conflict with the clause of the Constitution of the United States which vests in Congress power to
regulate commerce among the States in so far as it attempted

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH CO: v. JAMES.

659

Opinion of the Court.

to regulate the delivery of such dispatches to places situato in
other States, and it was said-that the reserved police power of
the State under the Constitution, although difficult to define.
did not extend to the regulation of the delivery at points
without the State of telegraphic messages received within the
Stat6. In that case the action was brought by Pendleton to
recover of the telegraph company the penalty of $100, pre
scribed by statute for failing to deliver at Ottumwa, in the
State of Iowa, a message received by the company in Indiana
for transmission to that place. The action was brought in the
State of Indiana and it was held that it was an attempt on the
part of that State to enforce. its own statute outside and
beyond the territorial limits of the State. The object of vesting the power to regulate commerce in Congress, it was said
by Mr. Justice Field speaking forthe court in that case, was
"to secure with reference to its subjects uniform regulations
where such uniformity was practicable against conflicting
state legislation. Such conflicting legislation would inevitably follow with reference to telegraphic communications between citizens of different States if each State was vested
with power to control them beyond its own limits. The manner arid order of the delivery of telegrams, as well as their
transmission, would vary according to the judgment of each
State." "Whatever authority the State may possess over
the transmission and delivery of messages by telegraph companies within her limits, it does not extend to the delivery of
messages in other States."
In Telegraph Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460, it was held that
a telegraph company in respect to its foreign and interstate
business was an instrument of commerce subject to the regulating powers of Congress, and that state laws, so far as they
imposed upon it a specific tax upon each message which it
transmitted beyond the State, or which an officer of the United
States sent over its lines on public business, were unconstitutional.
With this Lrief reference to some of the cases that have been
decided in this court respecting the commerce clause in the
Constitution, the question arises, which of the classes spoken

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

of in Covington &c. Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 154 U. S. suyra,

204, includes the statute under review? Is it a mere police
regulation, that but incidentally affects commerce, such as
Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465, and which, at any rate,
would be valid until Congress should legislate upon th6 subject; or is it of such a nature, so extensive and national in
character, that it could only be dealt with by Congress? We
do not think it is the latter. It is not at all similar in its
nature to the case above cited of Hall v. De Cuir,95 U. S. 485.
In one sense it affects the transmission of interstate messages,
because such transmission is not completed until the message
is delivered to the person to whom it is addressed, or reasonable diligence employed to deliver it. But the statute can be
fully carried out and obeyed without in any manner affecting
the conduct of the company with regard to the performance
of its duties in other States. It would not unfavorably affect
or embarrass it in the course of its employment, and hence
until Congress speaks upon the subject it would seem that
such a statute must be valid. It is the duty of a telegraph
company which receives a message for transmission, directed
to an individual at one of its stations, to deliver that message
to the person to whom it is addressed, with reasonable diligence and in good faith. That is a part of its contract, implied
by taking the message and receiving payment therefor.
The statute in question is of a nature that is in aid of the
performance of a duty of the company that would exist in the
absence of any such statute, and it is in nowise obstructive of
its duty as a telegraph company. It imposes a penalty for
the purpose of enforcing this general duty of the company.
The direction that the delivery of the message shall be made
with impartiality and in good faith and with due diligence is
not an addition to the duty which it would owe in the absence
of such a statute. Can it be said that the imposition of a
penalty for the violation of a duty which the company owed
by'the general law of the land is a regulation of or an obstruction to interstate commerce within the meaning of that clause
of the Federal Constitution under discussion? We think not.
No tax islaid upon any interstate message, nor is there any

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH CO. v. JAMES.

661

Opinion of the Court.

,regulation of a nature calculated to.at all embarrass, obstruct
or impede the company in the, full and fair performance of its
duty as an interstate sender of messages. We see no reason
to fear any weakening of the protection of the constitutional
provision as to commerce among the several States by holding
that in regard to Such a message as the one in question, although it comes from a place without the State, it is yet under
the jurisdiction of the State where it is to be delivered, (after
its arrival therein at the place of delivery,) at least so far as
legislation of the State tends to enforce the performance of
duty owed by the company under the general law. So long
as Congress is silent upon the .subject, we think it is within
the power of the state government to enact legislation of the
nature of this Georgia statute. It is not a case where the
silence of Congress is equivalent to an express enactment. As
has been said, this statute levies no tax and seeks no revenue
from the company by reason of these interstate messages.
The case of Gouce8ter rry Co. v. PennyZvania, 114 U. S.
196, is an illustration of the invalidity of an attempt to tax
persons or property received and landed within a State which
had been transported from another State. It was there held
that the tax was upon interstate commerce and ! regulation
thereof upon a matter national in character, requiring uniformity of regulation, and that, therefore, the power of
Congress was exclusive. If Congress were silent, no exactions could be made or levied. In the case at bar there is
no tax laid upon these messages, and no obstruction is placed
in the way of the company in regard to the performance of
any duty owed by it in connection with them. Instead of
obstructing, this statute aids commerce.- The subject of the
act is not national in character nor is uniformity at all
requisite. Conduct which might incur the penalty of $100
in one State might violate no statute in another, and in still
a third might subject the carrier to a penalty of but $50,
and yet there would exist no reason for uniformity of rule
governing the subject, and the carrier" would really suffer
nothing from its absence.
N6r is the statute open to the same objections that .were

OCTOBER TERM, 1895.
Opinion of the Court.

regarded as fatal in the Pendleton case, 122 U. S. 34:7. No
attempt is here made to enforce the provisions of the state
statute beyond the limits of the State, and no other State
could by legislative enactment affect in any degree the duty
of the company in relation to the delivery of messages
within the limits of the State of Georgia. No confusion
therefore could be expected in carrying out within the
limits of that State the provisions of the statute. It is
true it provides a penalty for a violation of its terms and
permits a recovery of the amount thereof irrespective of the
question whether any actual damages have been sustained
by the individual who brings the suit; but that is only a
.matter in aid of the performance of the general duty owed
by the company. It is not a regulation of commerce, but a
provision which only incidentally affects it. We do not
mean to be understood as holding that any state law on this
subject would be valid, even in the absence of Congressional
legislation, if the penalty provided were so grossly excessive
that the necessary operation of such legislation would be to
impede interstate commerce. Our decision in this case
would form no precedent for holding valid such legislation.
It might then be urged that legislation of that character
was not in aid of commerce, but was of a nature well calculated to harass and to impede it. While the -penalty in
the present statute is quite ample for a mere neglect to
deliver in some cases, we cannot say that it is so unreasonable as to be outside of and beyond the jurisdiction of the
State to enact.
While it is vitally important that commerce between the
States should be unembarrassed by vexatious state regulations regarding it, yet on the other hand there are many
occasions where the police power of the State can be properly exercised to .insure a faithful and prompt performance
.of duty within the limits of the State upon the part of those
who are engaged in interstate commerce. We think the
statute in question is one of that class, and in the absence of
any legislation by Congress the statute is a valid exercise of
the power of the State over the subject.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH CO.. v. JAIMES.

663

Opinion of the Court.

Again, it is said that this company entered into a valid contract in Alabama with the sender of the message, which provided that it would not be liable for mistakes in its. transmission beyond the sum received for sending the message, unless
the sender ordered it to be repeated and paid half the sum in
addition, and this statute changed the liability of the company as it would otherwise exist. The message was not repeated. This kind of a contract it is said was a reasonable
one, and has been so held by this court. Primrose v. Western
Union Telegraph Co., 154 U. S. 1. This, however, is not an
action by the person who sent the message from Alabama,
and this plaintiff is not concerned with that contract, whatever
it was. There was no mistake in the transmission of the message, and there was io breach of the agreement, The action
here is not founded upon ahy agreement and the judgment
neither affects nor violates the contract mentioned. Nor are
we here concerned with the provisions of the third section of
the act relating to the damages to be recovered in the case of
cipher messages. This was .not such a message, and this judgment is solely based upon the penalty granted by the statute
for non-delivery, and could be sustained even if the third section of the act were not valid, which is a question we do not
decide nor express any opinion concerning it. The residue of
the act could stand without the third section. After a carefulreview of the case, we think the judgment is right and .that
it should be
Afflrmed.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAs and Mn. ,JUSTICE WHITE, dissent, and
refer for their reasons to the case of Western Unibn Telegraph
Co. v. Pendleton, 122 U. S. 347.

