OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Counsel for Parties.

the stock and inducing other persons to take it, and in giving
credit to the corporation on the ground that such stock had
been taken and that he had actually paid his money in to the
company, which its creditors had a right to consider as so
much of 'its paid-up capital, that he held this stock for over
two years, when the corporation was in struggling circumstances, that he voted upon it at two elections, and that he
cannot now be permitted to recover back the money paid by
him, from the effects of the insolvent corporation, which by
law are devoted to the bonafde creditors of the irstitution.

,ludgjment aftlrmed.

TOLEDO, DELPHOS AND BURLINGTONT RAILROAD
OOMPANY v. HAMILTON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE

UNITED STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 184. Argued January 10, 1890.-Decided March 17, 1890.

A recorded mortgage, given by a railroad company on its roadbed and
other prop'erty creates a lien whose priority cannot be displaced thereafter either directly by a mortgage given by the company or indirectly
by a contract between the company and a third party for the erection of
buildings or other works of original construction.
Whether a mechanic's lien could, under the statutes of Ohio in force at the
time of the attempted filing of a lien in this case, be placed upon a railroad, qucre.
The priority of a mortgage debt upon a railroad has been sometimes displaced in favor of unsecured creditors, when those debts were contracted
for keeping up a railroad, already built, as a going concern, but those
cases have no application to a debt contracted for original construction.
A mortgage with words of general description conveys land held by a full
equitable title as well as that held by a legal title.

IN EQUITY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

-YL John X But ter and .Bff Robert G Ingerso2 (with
whom was Mr. Clarence Brown on the brief) for appellants.
Mr A. TV Scott and _Mr John HI. Doyle for appellee.

TOLEDO &c. RAILROAD CO. v. HAMILTON1.

297

Opinion of the Court.

Mri.

JUsTICE

BREw-ER delivered the opinion of the court.

The question in this case. arises between a mortgagee and a
party claiming a mechanic's lien upon the mortgaged premises, as to priority of payment. The facts are these 'On
January 17, 1880, The Toledo, Delphos and Burlington Railroad Company executed and delivered its first mortgage to the
Central Trust Company of New York, to secure the payment
of $1,250,000 six per cent bonds. The description of the
property conveyed by this mortgage is as follows "Unto
the Central Trust Company of NSew Y6rk, and to its successor or successors in trust, and for the uses and trusts hereby
created, all and singular the line of railroad of the said party
of the first part, as the same now is or hereafter may be constructed, between Toledo, Lucas County, Ohio, through the
counties of Lucas, Wood, Henry, Putnam, Allen and Van
Wert, in the State of Ohio, and the counties of Adams, Wells,
Huntington, Wabash, Miami, Grant and Howard, in the State
of Indiana, to the city or Kokomo, Indiana, being about one
hundred and eighty miles in length, together with all and
singular the right of way, road-bed, made and to be made,
its track, laid or to be laid, between the terminal points'
aforesaid, together with all supplies, depot grounds, rails,
fences, bridges, sidings, engine-houses, machinery, shops, buildings, erections, in any way now, or hereafter, appurtenant
unto said described line of railroad, together with all the
engines, machinery, supplies, tools and fixtures, now, -or at any
time hereafter, owned or acquired by said party of the first
part, for use in connection with its line of railroad aforesaid,
and all depot grounds, yards, sidings, turn-outs, sheds, machine
shops, leasehold rights and other terminai facilities now, or
hereafter, owned by the said party of the first part. together
with all and singular the powers and franchises thereto belonging, and the tolls and income and revenue to be levied
and derived therefrom."
The Trust Company accepted the trust created by this
mortgage, and the bonds were issued by the railroad company, certified by the trustee, and sold on the market. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the- Court.

mortgage was, within a few days after its execution, duly
recorded in the proper counties. In October, 1883, default
having occurred in the payment of interest, the Trust Company brought suit to foreclose. There being a conflict of interest between the' bondholders under this and those under a
terminal trust mortgage subsequently executed by the railroad
company, a committee of bondholders under the first mortgage, consisting of James M. Quigley, Charles T. iHarbeck and
John Iv[clab, was appointed to represent the interest of such
bondholders, and by order of the court duly made. co-complainants. Thomas H. Hamilton, appellee, intervened, and
filed his potition claiming a mechanic's lien. On March 20th,
May 9th and June 2d, 1883, respectively, he had entered into
three several contracts with the railroad company for the
erection of a dock on the Maumee River, in the city of Toledo.
Under these contracts he had built the dock, and, receiving
only partial payment, had filed a claim for a mechanic's lien
for the balance. The lot -on which the dock was built was a
part of the railroad property covered by the first mortgage
above referred to. The Circuit Court sustained his claim of
lien, -and decreed prior payment of the amount Gue him out of
the proceeds of the sale of the railroad property as an entirety
No question is made as to the am6unt due him by the railroad
company for the work he did, but the contention of the appellants is that he is not entitled to priority of payment. His
claim of priority depends upon either a legal right given by
his mechanic's lien, or an equitable right arising from the construction of the dock and consequent improvement of the
railroad property The master, who reported upon the intervemng petition, based- his award of priority upon the latter
ground, holding that the fact of construction, and consequont
improvement of the railroad property, gave an equitable right
to priority of payment, while the court, giving the same
priority, rested it upon the fact of a mechanic's lien. We
think that the views of neither the master -nor the court can
'be sustained, and that. it was error tb give appellee priority
over the mortgagee. It will be-noticed, and it is a fact which
lies at the foundation of this case, that the contracts for the

TOLEDO &c. RAILROAD CO. v. HA

LTO1.

299.

Opimon of the Court.

construction of the dock were not made till more than three
years after the execution and record of the mortgage. The
record imparted notice to Hamilton, and to. all others, of the
fact and terms of the mortgage, and the question is thus
presented, whether a railroad company, mortgagor, can, three
years after creating by recorded mortgage an express lien
upon its property, by contract with a third party displace the
priority of the mortgage lien. It would seem that the question admits of but a single answer. Certainly as to ordinary
real estate, no one would have the hardihood to contend that
it could be done, and there is in this respect no difference
between ordinary real estate and railroad property A recorded mortgage, given by a railroad company on its road-bed
and other property, creates a lien whose priority cannot be
displaced thereafter, directly by a mortgage given by the
company, nor indirectly by a contract between the company
and a third party for the erection of buildings or other works
of original construction.
It is enough-to. refer to the decisions of this court. In the
case of Dunham v Railway Company, 1 Wall. 251, 267, there
was presented a question of priority between a mortgagee and
a contractor who had expended money and labor in building
a railroad, under a subsequent agreement with the company
that he should have possession of the road until he was fully
paid, and who had never surrendered the possession and the
priority of the mortgage was sustained, Upon this point the
court observed. "Counsel of respondents concede that the
mortgage to the complainant was executed in due form of
law, and the case also shows that it was duly recorded on the
ninth day of March, 1855, more than eight months before the
contract . set up by the- respondents was made. All of the
bonds, except those subsequently delivered to the. contractor,
had long before that time been issued, and w'ere in the hands
of innocent holders. :Contractor, under the .circumstances,
could acquire no greater interest in the road than was held by
the company He did not exact any formal conveyance, but,
if he had,'and one had been executed and delivered, the rule
would be the same. Registry of the first mortgage was notice

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opunon of the Court.

to all the world of the lien of the complainant, and in that
point of view the case does not even show a hardship upon
the contractor, as he must have known when he accepted the
agreement that he took the road subject to the rights of the
bondholders. Acting as he did with a full knowledge of, all
the circumstances, he has no right to complain if his agreement is less remunerative than it would have been if the bondholders had joined with the company in making the contract.
No effort appears to have been made to induce them to
become a party to the agreement, and it is now too late to
remedy the oversight. Conceding.the general rules of law to
be as here laid down, still an attempt is made by the respondents to maintain that railroad mortgages made to secure the
payment -of bonds issued for the purpose of realizing means
with which to construct the road, stand upon a different footing from the ordinary mortgages to which such general rules
of law are usually applied. Authorities are cited which seem
to favor the supposed distinction, and the argument in support
of it was enforced at the bar with great power of illustration,
but suffice it to say, that in the view of this court the argument is not sound, and we think that the weight of judicial
determination is greatly the other way Pierce v. Emery, 32
N. EH. 484:, Pennock v Coe, 23 How -130, Field v The .Mayor
of NYew York, 2 Selden, 179, Seymour v Canandatgua &c.
RYailroad, 25 Barb. 284, Red. on Railways,-578, Langton v
Horton, I Hare Oh. 5419, Matter of RHowe, 1 Paige, 125, 129,
Winslow v. -Mitchell [.Mitchel v Winslow], 2 Story, 630,
Domat, 649, Art. 5, 1 Pow on Mort. 190 N7Voel v Bewley,
3 Sim. 103."
See, also, on this general pyoposition, the cases of Galveston
Railroad v Cowdrey, 11 Wall. 459, Dillon v Barnard, 21
Wall. 430, 440, Porterv-PttsburgSteel Co., 120 'U.S. 649,
and 122 U S. 267, Twomnpson v. Whitewater Valley Railroad,
132 U S. 68. Reference may be had to a decision of the,
Supreme Court of Ohio, the State in .which this lien was
attempted to be created and enforced; Coteau v Thompson,
2 Ohio St. 114, 126, 127, in which the .court, speaking of a
mechanmc's lien, says " The lien does not override or interfere

TOLEDO &c. RAILROAD CO. v. HAMILTO1N.

301

Opmloi" of the Court.

with prior bona fbde liens. The idea that thebuilder, or material man, may have a lien upon the house to the exclusion of a
mortgagee, or judgment creditor, whose lien attached before
the house was erected, altered or repaired, is inadmissible, and
could not, in practice, be carried out." And again "We do
not suppose that the law relating to mortgages, or to judgments
and executions, was in any way affected by the enactment of
the lien law And we are of opinion, as before stated, that
liens under. this .law do not, in any case or in any manner,
interfere with prior bona)jid hens." So that if a mechanic's
lien could have been placed upon the railroad, or any part
thereof,, under the 'Ohio statute, and by the proceedings taken
was in fact perfected, it would not operate to displace the
priority of the earlier mortgage.
To what extent, if at all, a mechanic's lien could, under the
statutes of Ohio in f6rce at the time Hamilton attempted to
file hislien, be placed upon a railroad, or any part of it, may
be a matter of doubt. 1uthe7foord v. Cincmnati & Portsmouth Pailroad,35 Ohio St. 559, Smith Brdge Company v
Bowman, 41 Ohio St.. 37, Revised Statutes of Ohio, 1880,
sections 3184 and.3185 and sections 3207 to 3211 inclusive,
also Laws of 1883, amended sections 3207 to 3211, inclusiv.,
and Laws of 1884, page 126. It is unnecessary in this case to
express any opinion about the matter, for if a mechanic's lien
was effected, it was subordinate to the lien of the prior mortgage. There was no statute in force at the time the mortgage
was executed, giving any priority to subsequent mechanic's
liens, and by. the mortgage the mortgagee took its vested
priority, beyond the power of the mortgagor or the legislature
thereafter to disturb.
lNeither did the fact of the construction of the dock, and the
consequent improvement of the mortgaged property, give,
as repotted by the master, to Hamilton an equitable lien
prior in right to the lien of the nortgage, or furnish equitable reasons why the legal priority belonging to the mortgage
should be displaced. It is true cases have arisen in which,
upon equitable reasons, the priority of a mortgage debt has
been displaced in favor of even unsecured subsequent creditors.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opmnon of the Court.

See t. Iou-is, Alton &c. Railroadv Cleveland, Columbus &c.
Railway, 125 U. S. 658, 673. in which many of these cases
are. collected and the equitable principles underlying them
stated. But those principles have. no application here. The
work which Hamilton did was in original construction, and not
in keeping up, as-a going concern, a railroad already built.
The amount due him was no part of the current expenses of
operating the road. There was, as to him, no diversion of
current earnings to the payment of current expenses.
The distinction is so well expressed by Mr. Justice Blatchford, in giving the opinion of the court in the case of Porterv.
PittsburgSteel Co., 120 U S. 649, 671, that it is sufficient to
quote his language "The claims of the appellees are for the
original construction of the railroad. This is not a case where
the proceeds of the sale of the property of a railroad, as a completed structure, open for travel and transportation, are to be
applied to restore earnings which, instead of having been applied to pay.operating expenses and necessary repairs, have
been diverted to pay. interest on mortgage bonds and the improvement of the mortgaged property, the debts due for the
operating expenses and7 repairs having remained unpaid when
a receiver was appointed. The equitable principles upon
which the decisions rest, applying to the payment, out of the
proceeds of the sale of railroad property, of such debts for
operating expenses and necessary repairs, are not applicable
to claims such as the present, accrued for the original construction of a railroad while there was a subsisting mortgage
upgon it. These five appellees gave credit to the company for
their work. It was construction work, and none of it was for
-operating expenses or repairs, and none of it went towards
keeping -a completed road in operation, either in the way of
labor or material. When these claims accrued, the road of
the company had not been opened for use. The claims accrued, after the mortgage had been executed and -recorded,
and after $1,000,000 of the bonds secured by it had been issued
and pledged to innocent bonafIde holders for value. We are
not aware of any well-considered adjudged case, which, in the
absence of a statutory provision, holds that unsecured floating.

,TOLEDO &c. RAILROAD JO. v. HAMMTON.

303

Opimon of the Court.

debts for construction are a lien on a railroad superior to the
lien of a valid mortgage duly.recorded, and. of bonds secured
thereby, and held by bona fide purchasers- for -value. The
authorities are all the other way"
It is urged by the appellee, in objection to the force of these
propositions, as applied to the facts in this case, that at the
time this mechanic's lien was created the legal title was not
in the railroad company, but in one George W Ballou, that
as the mortgagor had no legal title, the mortgage created no
lega" lien, that while by the decree of foreclosure the legal
title was transferred to the mortgagor, it was transferred subject to the burden of the mechanic's lien, and the cases of
Willimson, Trustee, v .. ew erseySouthern .Railroad,28 N. J.
Eq. (1 Stewart,) 271, also 29 N. J Eq. (2 Stewart,) 311,
and Botsford v..New Haven, Middletown &c. Railroad Co.,
4:1 Conn. 454, are especially relied upon.. But the facts in
those cases are .very different from those in this. In the New
Jersey case, the defendant railroad company had executed a
mortgage with the "after acquired property"1 clause in it, duly
recorded. It was also the owner of a large majority of the
stock in the Long Branch and Sea Shore Company, and was in
possession of and operating the latter company's road. N1o
consolidation in fact of the two companies bad taken place;.
but being in possession of the latter company's road, it had
contracted for the bilding of certain docks, walls and piers,
at the terminus of such road. Having failed to make payment for such work, a mechamc's lien was perfected upon the.
latter company's road. Upon a suit to foreclose the mortgage
given by the defendant railroad company, the chancellor, laymg hold of the fact that the defendant railroad company was
the owner of this large majority of the stock -was in possegsion of and operating the latter company's road - decreed
that such road, with its property and franchises, belonged to
the defendant railroad company, and as after acquired property was subject to complainant's mortgage, but subordinate
to the mechanic's lien. On review in the Court of Errors
and Appeals, as reported in 29 N. J. Eq., s&ura, the decision
of the chancellor was sustaaned, the court saying "Until

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

that decree was signed, the right of the complainant in the
lands of the Sea Shore Company under his mortgage -was a
mere unexecuted equity to have the benefit of such equities
as his mortgagor had in the premises, without any legal title
in himself or in his mortgagor upon which his mortgage as a
conveyance could operate.
When the decree of the
chancellor was signed, which established the lien of complainant's mortgage on the property of the Long Branch and Sea
Shore Company, Berthoud & Co. had, by force of the provisions of the mechanic's lien act, acquired a lien on the premises
which related back to the commencement of the building,
and was entitled to priority over all conveyances, mortgages
or encumbrances subsequent thereto. This lien was not displaced by the chancellor's decree, which, in the absence of
fraud, could be effective only to bring under the complainant's
mortgage the lands of the Sea Shore Company, subject to such
liens as were lawfully acquired while the legal estate was in
that company The chancellor's decree adjudging the validity and priority of the claim of Berthoud & Co. should be
affirmed." Unquestionably such ruling was correct. The
owner of a majority of the stock in a railroad: corporation has
no title to the road. The title is in the corporation. and he is
not the corporation. A mortgage by the owner of such stock
is no lien upon the road, and does not prevent the casting of
any legal lien upon it. So that, while for the many equitable
reasons stated in the opinion, the decree vested the property
in the latter road in the defendant railroad bompany, yet it
perfected and transferred that title, subject to "ll legal liens
then existing upon it. As the Court of Errors and Appeals
well said, until that decree Was signed the right of the complainant, the mortgagee, was a mere unexecuted equity, to
have the benefit .of such equities as his mortgagor had in the
pi'emises.
In the Connecticut case the facts were these After giving
the mortgage the railroad company desired to erect a depot on
land adjoining its track. The owner agreed to give the compauy the land provided it would- build a depot. Upon the
building a,mechanic's lien was filed. The owner had never

TOLEDO &c. RAILROAD CO. v. HAXILTON.

305

Opinion of the Court.

made a conveyance. Upon a foreclosure of the mortgage the
mechanic's lien upon the building and the ground upon which
it was constructed was held prior to the mortgage. The decision was based upon the ground that the full equitable title
never passed to the railroad company until the completion of
the building, and then it passed subject to the burden of themechanic's lien. Hence, though after acquired property,
and subject to the lien of the mortgage, it was when acqired
already burdened with a lien.
But in the case at bar, as appears from the testimony and
the decree, only the naked legal title remained in Ballou, the
full equitable title was in the railroad company -and
mthat
company before the contracts were entered into. The railroad
company had the same title when it made the contracts that it
had when the work was done and the decree rendered. Hamilton's contracts were with .the railroad company, and of course
gave a lien-upon the lands only to the extent of the title that
the railroad company had. The mortgage being one with
words of general description, conveyed land held by a full
equitable, as well as that held by a legal, title. Jones on
Mortgages, section 138, Massey v Papm, 24 How 362;
Farmers' -Loan and Trust Co. v Fisher,17 Wisconsin, 114,
Lincom Building Assoczsao v Hrazs, 10 Nebraska, 581,
Laughlin v Braley, 25 Kansas, 147. We conclude, therefore,
that there is nothing in this fact to justify an award of priority
to appellee.
It is further objected by the appellee that the ground upon
which this dock was built was never acquired by the company
which executed the mortgage, but by a new company into
which the mortgagor company passed by consolidation. In
view of the condition of the record we are compelled to accept
the statement of the court- in its decree, which is, that the
property was covered by the mortgage in suit. Again, it .is
urged.that a part of the work was done after the receiver was
appointed, and by his authority The report of the master
does not sustain this claim, neither does the account filed by
the intervenor for the purpose of securing his mechanic's lien,
And While there is testimony tending to show that lie did
VOL. cxxxv-20

I

