OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

v. Ilazelrtgg, 45 Indiana, 576, 579. But the decree of specific
performance ought not to become operative until he brings
into court for the defendant the full amount necessary to pay
off the notes for principal and interest falling due m 1885,
1886 and 1887. Caldwell v. Casszdy, 8 Cowen, 271, HUaxtun
v Bishop, 3 Wend. 15, 21, Hills v..Place, supra, Wood v.
IeXchants' Savzng Co., supra, Webster v French, 11 Illinois,
254, 278, Carley v. VFance, 17 'Mass. 389, 391, Doyle v. Teas,
4 Scammon, 202, 261, 267, AMlDaneld v Kimbrell, 3 Greene
(Iowa), 335. The.defendant is not entitled to interest after the
respective tenders wre made. because it 'does not appear that
the plaintiff has, sifice the tenders, realized any interest upon
the moheys left by him for Cheney at the bank of Russell
& Hohles. Dawns v Parker, 14 Allen, 94, 104, Januaryv.
_iartzn, I Bibb, 586, 590, H7art v Brand, 1 A. K. Marsh.
159, 161. 2 Sugden on Vendors, 8th Amer. Ed. 314-15

[627-8].
The decree below ts affirmed. But it bs adjudged and ordered that the sazd decree be and ss hereby suspended, and
shall not become operative until the .plasntifbrngs into
the court below for the defendant the full amount qf the
notes for pr1nczjal and interest executed by hzm to the
defendant and made payabe on the 8th days of .May,
1885, 1886 and 1887, without snterest upon any note after
its maturity.

MoKEY v.

YDE PARK VILLAGE.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 1421. Submitted January 7, 1890.- Decided March 3, 1890.

The only contention between the parties in this action of ejectment wag,
whether the centre of a street in the village of Hyde Park was the southern boundary line of the plaintiff's land, or whether that line ran twenty'three'feet further south. The court in its charge to the jury said. "In
1873 the village of Hyde Park laid out and opened 41st Street sixty-six.

McKEY v. HYDE PAR~K. Citations for Plaintiff in Error.
feet wide from Grand Boulevard to Vincennes Avenue, the centre of
which was a line equidistant from the north and south lines of the
quarter section, on the theory that this line was the true east -and west
boundary between the four quarters of the quarter section and the true
southern boundary of the MeKey tract, " and then directed the jury
thus. "If you believe from the evidence that the centre of the street is
the centre east and west line of the quarter section, then you are also
instructed that it was and still is the true boundary line, and that the
plaintiff is not entitled to the land described in the declaration on the
theory that the Greeley survey was correct;" Held, that this was erroneous as it in effect directed the jury to find that the plaintiff was not entitled
to recover; and, as the evidence was conflicting, that was a question to be
determined by the jury.
A rule in force for the subdivision of public lands for disposal under the
public land law does not necessarily apply to the subdivision of private
lands by their owners after they have been granted by the government
without having first made official subdivisions.
In Illinois the inference that an owner of land has dedicated it to the publAe
for use as a street can only be drawn from acts which show an actual
intention to so dedicate it, or from acts which equitably estop the owner
from denying such intention.

EJEcrTmENT. Yerdict for the defendant, and judgment on
the verdict, to review which this writ of error was sued out.
The case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr J R. Doo~ittle, for plaintiff in error cited Irwin v
.Dion, 9 How 10, 30, Cininnati v White, 6 Pet. 431,
Kelly v Chicago, 48 Illinois, 388, Bauer v Gottmanhausen,
65 Illinois, 499, Lull v Chicago, 68 Illinois, 518, RYyle v Town
of Logan, 87 Illinois, 64, 67, Hyde Park v Dunham, 85
Illinois, 569, 577, Chicago v Johnson, 98 Illinois, 618,
Herhold v Chicago, 108 Illinois, 467, Peyton v. Shaw, 15
Bradwell, Ill. App. 192, 196, Robertson v Wellsville, 1 Bond,
81, Lownsdale v Portland,Deady, 39, .Lansdownv .Elderton,
14 Yes. 512, Gray v. Gray, 1 Beavan, 199, Harding v Earding, I Myl. & Cr. 514, Regiuea v Rea, 2 Paige, 339, 341,
.liller v Collyer, 36 Barb. 250, Cazet v Hubbell, 36 N. Y.
677, 680, Bloomington v Bloomington Cemetery Assn., 126
Illinois, 221, Chicago v Stinson, 124 Illinois, 510; Gates v
Salmon, 35 California, 576, S. C. 95 Am. Dec. 139; Sutter v.
San Francisco, 36 California, 112.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

Mr James H Roberts, for defendant in error, cited. Cinomnatz v White's Zessee, 6 Pet. 453, and cases cited, Afacon v.
Franklin,12 Georgia, 239, Case v Faver,12 Minnesota, 89;
Cady v Conger, 19 N. Y 256, Barclay v Howell's Lessee, 6
Pet. 496. 513, Wilder v St. Paul,12 Minnesota, 192-; Forney
v Calhoun County, 84: Alabama, 215, Adams v SaratogaRailroad,11 BarU 414, Chtcago v lfrnght, 69 Illinois, 318.
MR. JUSTI E LAmAR delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action of ejectment brought in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois by
William D. NMcKey against the village of Hyde Park, to
recover possession of a strip of land 23 feet wide and 150 long,
used and occupied by the village as a part of a street known
as Forty-first Street. The ground of McKey's complaint is,
that the village, in locating and opening that street, entered
upon, and unlawfully took possession of his -land to the extent
of the above mentioned strip, ejected him therefrom, and
withholds from him the possession there'f. The defendant
filed a plea of not guilty, and at the trial contended that the
street, including that strip, was properly located and was rightfully used as a public highway by virtue of a common law
dedication, and also under a deed from plaintiff's co-tenant,
with the acquiescence of plaintiff through a long period of
years.
The controversy in the case is as to the location of a boundary line, there being, according to the bill of exceptions, no
contention as to the title of the premises in dispute. The
land in dispute is in the south ten acres of the N.W - of the
N.E. ' of section 3, township 38 N., R. 14 E. of the third principal meridian in Cook County, Illinois. Upon the trial it was
shown that the trustees of the Illinois and Michigan Canal had
owned the N.E. of section 3, deriving their title by grant
from the State of Illinois, and that they conveyed the northwest quarter of this N.E. to P F W Peck, describing it in
the-deed as the northwest quarter of the N.E. I of -the section, containing forty acres,. more, or less. By mesne convey-

McKEY v. HYDE PARK.
Opinion of the Court.

ances the title to the south ten acres of this N.W If of the N.
E. of section 3, in June, 1886, became vested in two brothers,
Edward and Michael McKey, living in Wisconsin, as tenants
in common, and was held by them until the death of Michael
McKey, intestate, September 29, 1868, upon whose death his
interest therein descended to his four minor children, one of
whom, William D. McKey, the plaintiff, became of age on
September 18, 1874. Edward McKey died intestate August

14, 1875.
In order to show his. title to the premises in dispute the
plaintiff put in evidence, the proceedings of the Circuit Court
of Cook County in chancery in a suit for the partition of the
McKey tract among the heirs and owners-thereof. As shown
by this evidence that court in that case appointed commissioners to partition the land, and authorized them to subdivide
it into blocks, lots, streets and alleys, which they did, and
attached to the record a plat entitled "McKey's
,
Addition
to Hyde Park."
The plaintiff also put in evidence the final decree in that
cause entered October 6, 1882, the said plat being a part of it.
The decree reads as follows
"It appearing to the court that the plat in said report
attached, marked 'E ', which said commissioners have entitled
' M Key's Addition to Hyde Park,' being a subdivision made
by Circuit Court commissioners in partition of that part of
the south ten acres of the northwest quarter, etc., represents
their subdivision of the land above described under description
No. 5, and was by them duly submitted to the president and
board of trustees of said village of Hyde Park, and was
approved by them on the eighth of September, A.D. 1882, as
appears by the certificate of the clerk of said village thereon,
the pieces or parcels of land designated on this plat 'E' as
streets and alleys being laid out for public streets and alleys
as on said plat 'E' shown. It is further ordered, adjudged
and decreed that the several maps or plats by said commissioners prepared and the subdivision by them made and shown
thereon, and the respective titles given thereto, be, and the
same are hereby in all respects approved, ratified, and confirmed,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

and it is ordered that the originals now here in court be
recorded in the recorder's office of said Cook County, as required by law And it is further ordered that the clerk of
this court certify, under his hand and [the] seal of this court,
on each of said original maps or plats a minute of the order of
this court approving the same, m words and figures as follows,
to wit
"State of Illinois,

8

"County of Cook, I
"This plat approved in all particulars by the court; and it is
ordered that the same be recorded in the recorder's office of
the County of Cook aforesaid. This certificate is made in
pursuance of a decree of the Circuit Court of Cook County, in
the State of Illinois, entered on the 6th day of October, 1882,
in casenumber 39,801, in which William D. il[cKey and others
:MlcKey and others are deare complainants and Richard Mlvi.
fendants."
The plat shows that the lots embraced 23 feet of the street,
and that the stakes of the lots were set 23 feet south of
the north line of the street, leaving a strip 23 feet wide
south of the lots to be thereby dedicated for use as a public
street. The plaintiff for the purpose of showing that the line
thus indicated by the plat as the southern boundary of the
MVcKey tract was intended by the canal trustees to be the
of the N. E. j of section 3, offered
southern line of the N. W
in evidence, in addition to -their conveyance to Peck, the purchaser from them of that tract, all the other conveyances
made by them of the said northeast quarter of said section 3,
as follows (1) A deed to Robert S. Wilson, dated April 1,
1857, for the north half of the southwest quarter of that quarter section which was stated in the deed to contain 19-ou
acres, more or less, in consideration of $965, (2) a deed to
John C. Dodge, dated October 6, 1855, for the south half of
the southwest quarter of that quarter section, stated in the
deed to contain 20 acres, at the rate of $50 per acre, amounting to the sum of $1000; (3) a deed to Isaac Cook, dated
August 16, 1852, conveying the northeast quarter of that

MoKEY v. HYDE PARlK.
Opmion of the Court.

quarter section, containing 40 acres, more or less, at the rate
of $15 per acre, amounting to the sum of $600; (4) a deed
to William B. Egan, dated January 28, 1856. conveying thenorth half of the southeast quarter of that quarter section,
containing 19?10k acres; and, (5) a deed to Margaret -Johnson, dated July 1, 1859, conveying the south half of the southeast quarter of that quarter section, containing 19-%Iq acres.
It was admitted, as stated above, that the canal trustees had
held title to the whole of the said northeast quarter, and that
the above deeds placed all the titles to said quarter section
in the grantees aforesaid.
The plaintiff then introduced one Henry J. Goodrich, who
testified "to his signature upon the plat, and that he was one
of the commissioners appointed by the court to make the partition, and was at the same time president of the*board of
trustees of the village of Hyde Park; that he knew where the
stakes were driven by the surveyors who made the plat,. and
he knew that the land as staked took 23 feet off the street,
that at the time the board approved the plat they knew it was
taking more land than what 'was intended to be given,'
that they wanted to change the street, they wanted to leave
that question m court and approve of the plat as it then
stood, that the board was then in favor of changing the loca,tion of that street. The witness further testified that he had
known.that land ever since 1865 or 1866, and that it was then
enclosed with a fence, that the fence was an old fence, that
the fence was south of the centre- line of the street as opened
by the authorities of Hyde Park, and that he remembered
the circumstance of a street being run through there.
It was admitted by stipulation of counsel that 41st Street
was opened through the property in question m 1873."
Alexander Taylor, a witness for the plaintiff, testified that
he resided very near this property for eighteen years, and
had known it ever since 1869, and at one time lived on part
of it. That "it was always fenced in until the time it was
opened as a street, in 1873. There was a fence on the south
line of it in, 1869, which was quite an old fence then and which
the gardener made into a reed fence to give shelter to his

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

garden from the north winds, and on the south side of it was
the Bowen lot, cultivated as a vegetable garden, on the north
side it was also enclosed. There was no fence on the north
side of the ten-acre lot deeded to the McKeys, but the whole
piece up to the railroad, including -Mr.Hill's and Mrs. Smith's
land, was all fenced in together. One-half of it belonged to
the McKey estate and one-half belonged to Mrs. Smith and
Mr. iHill, but it was enclosed on all sides and was used for
a pasture by the witness. The fence on the south line between
the McKey land and the Bowen land was an old fence which
used to blow down, the pressure of the wind would break it
down, and he had to patch it up. It was an old fence in 1869,
made on cedar posts, a straight fence running through from
Vincennes Avenue to Grand Boulevard. The wind would
blow it down sometimes three or four lengths at a time.
When the street was put through and the fence was moved
south they turned the tops of the fence'into the ground, they
were so rotten they could not use them again. When the
street was put through, the fence was moved south into Mr.
De Lat's garden."
Frank M-cLeane testified to the same effect as to the
existence of the old fence which ran straight through from
Vincennes Avenue to Grand Boulevard, immediately south of
which was Bowen's land, used as a garden.
The plaintiff then called S. S. Greeley, who testified that he
was the surveyor who made the plat pursuant to the order of
the court, that he staked the south line of the lots and the
north line of the street, and that the stakes were all driven
in the grade of the street. He stated that when he made the
survey of McKey's addition he was informed of how the
canal trustees had conveyed the whole of the quarter section
by the certificates and conveyances above mentioned, that
the United States plat of section 3 showed that the N. E. I
was a fractional quarter section - not full 160 acres, but
1571
acres, and that, before making the survey, it was
necessary to know how the canal trustees had conveyed the
land.
He further stated. "I found then there were six con-

McKEY v. HYDE PARK.
Opimon of the Court.

veyances by the canal trustees to six different parties in the
northwest quarter of section 3, two of the pieces were conveyed as the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter and
the northeast quarter of the northeast quarter, each being 40
acres, more or less, then there were four conveyances- one.
conveying the north half of the southwest quarter of the
northeast quarter of section 3, containing 19-W acres, more or
less, one the south half of the southwest quarter of the northeast quarter, containing 19 -,%' acres, and one the north half of
the southeast quarter of the northeast quarter, containing
19P acres, and one the south half of the southeast quarter of
the northeast quarter, containing 19P acres. The south half
of the southwest quarter of the northeast quarter was marked
in two ways, it was marked 19N acres with a pencil mark
through it.
I then found that the line between what
is technically called the north half and the south half of the
northwest quarter was- not really the .middle line of the
quarter section, but was a line far enough south of that
to give the proportion of 80 acres in the north half and
71acres m the south half. I then divided it upon that
basis, giving the north half - of the width north and south,
and giving the south half '77and a fractional T-T of the width
north and south, that made the north part of the quarter
section 1334 feet long on the west line, and the south part
1288f2 feet, and the true dividing.line between the northwest
quarter and the southwest quarter of the quarter section,
which is properly the south line of the McIKey property"
In reply to a question by the judge, he stated that he put
the dividing line "just where the canal trustees seem to have
done in their deeds." Witness further testified "that he had
made surveys in the northwest*quarter of this quarter section,.
and that he had surveyed the property immediately south
of the McKey ten acres, which is in dispute, and that he had
located the fence along the north line of said property and
the south line of 41st Street as laid out by the village, that
he had located this fence running east and west an equal distance between the north and south boundary lines of the
quarter section, but that he had done this simply by retrac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

ing the subdivision which had been made before, and that he
made the north line of the southwest quarter of the quarter
section at the midway point, because he discovered that it was
the way it had been made before."
The defendant to maintain the issues on its part introduced
Henry McKey, son of Edward McKey, to show that the village of Hyde Park in 1873 opened 41st Street through the
land in question, in pursuance of a deed from his father who
was the original owner of an undivided half of the McKey
tract, that the plaintiff, though a minor at the time, became
of age in the year 1874, and did not commence this suit until
1887, that in the meantime the village of Hyde Park proceeded to open and improve the street, to lay sidewalks and
to put in sewers without objection or interruption from the
plaintiff, that witness was the only agent the MciKeys. had in
the management of their property, and was present aftthe
time the street -was laid out, that he saw that the fence had
been moved, that more of the street had been taken from the
McKey tract than from the land adjoining it on-the south,
that he thought the location of the fence might have been
wrong, and therefore made no objection, and that the location was not questioned until Mr. Greeley informed him of the
alleged error of said location, and that the southern line of
the lots extended 56 feet below the north line of the street.
He also testified that in selling lots in their addition the
MdKeys followed the description in the plat thereof, but inserted in the deed a condition that they did not warrant the
title to any portion of the lots claimed by the village as a part
of the street.
In support of its contention that the 23-feet strip involved
in this suit was rightfully included. within the limits of the
street, and that the same is located where it ought to be, the
defendant introduced as witnesses McLennan, Rossiter, Lee and
Foster, all surveyors of experience. Each of those witnesses
testified that the centre line of 41st Street, as laid out by the
village of Hyde Park, is the true southern boundary of the
McKey tract.
Jacob T. Foster, county surveyor, said "If he were called

XcKEY v. HYDE PARK.
Opinion of the Court.

upon to survey the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter,
containing forty acres, more or less, he would ascertain the
southern line of the quarter by measurmg the west line of the
quarter section and dividing it in the middle, then measuring
the east line of the quarter section and dividing it in the midd1e, and "run a line through from one point to the other, so
that if the west line of the quarter section was 26221 feet long
he would make the west line of the quarter quarter one-half of
that, and make the south line of the quarter quarter that many
feet south of the north line. That is the correct principle in
surveying."
The witness MvcLennan, a surveyor of thirty years, testified
that "if this northeast quarter of section 3 be subdivided into
four quarters by dividing the quarter section by equally distant
lines, such a survey would locate 41st Street in exactly the position where it is now occupied by the village, and in that case
the true line between the northwest quarter and the southwest
quarter of this northeast quarter of the quarter section would
be in the cettre of 41st Street as now laid out and occupied."
Defendant's other witnesses testified to the same effect.
Several exceptions were taken to rulings of the court below
during the progress of the trial, and also to the general charge
to the jury The jury returned a verdict in favor of the defendant upon which judgment was rendered. The plaintiff
then sued out this writ of error.
The first assignment of error, which we think necessary to
consider, relates to the following charge of the court
"If you believe from the evidence that the centre of the
street is the centre east and west line of the quarter section,
then you are also instructed that it was and still is the true
boundary line, and that the plaintiff is not entitled to the land
described in the declaration on the theory that the Greeley
survey was correct."
He preceded this charge by the following statement
"In 1873 the village of Hyde Park laid out and opened 41st
Street sixty-six feet wide from Grand Boulevard to Vincennes
Avenue, the centre of which was a line equidistant from the
north and south lines of the quarter section, on the theory that

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

this line was the true east and west boundary between the four
quarters of the quarter section and the true southern boundary
of the McKey tract."
In our opinion that instruction was erroneous. It in effect
directed the jury to find that the centre of the street, which is
a line equidistant from the north and south lines of the quarter
section, is the true southern boundary of the McKey tract,' and
that the plaintiff was not entitled to recover the premises described in the declaration. The question in this branch of the
case is, whether, as is contended by the plaintiff, the line designated in the plat of partition, adopted by the decree of the
Chancery Court of Cook County, and approved by the president
and board of trustees of the village of Hyde Park, is the true
southern boundary of the McKey tract, or whether, as insisted
by the defendant, the centre line of 41st Street is that
boundary
The facts adduced by the plaintiff in support of his contention are, that the whole of the-northeast quarter of section 3
was owned by the canal commissioners, that it contained, as
shown by the plat of the governmental survey, 1571 3 acres;
that there was never any official subdivisional survey of that
quarter, that the canal commissioners, by six different deeds,
conveyed to different parties and in different quantities the
whole quarter section, 80 acres in the north part of the quarter and four times 19
or 77 -J% acres in the south part, that
S. S. Greeley, a surveyor of forty years' experience, employed
by the court commissioners m the partition suit, with those
deeds before him, proceeded to survey the property into subdivisions, and, as he testified, by tracing the lines of the various
subdivisions just as the canal commissioners seemed to have
placed them by their deeds, and, locating it "exactly as it was
originally subdivided," he fixed the boundary line twenty-three
feet south of that indicated by the centre of the street, and
that the line thus certified to by him, adopted by the court,
and approved by the president and board of trustees of the village of Hyde Park, coincided exactly with an ancient dividing
fence between the JhcKey tract north and the Bowen tract
south, running across the western half of the quarter section,

McKEY v. HYDE PARK.
Opinion of the Court.

which, by its rotted condition, furnished a strong presumption
that it had been built there by the original purchasers in accordance with a survey made upon the same principle as the
one on which the partition -plat was prepared.
The evidence as to the true southern boundary is at least
conflicting; and its weight and value was a question to be
determined by the jury
Assuming that the rule laid down by the court is the usual
one prescribed by the gov.ernment for the direction of surveying officers in subdividing sections of the public lands for disposal under the public land law, it does not necessarily relate
to the subdivision of private lands by the owners after they
have been granted by the government without official subdivisions having been made. If the northeast quarter of section 3 had been subdivided by the surveying officers of the
United States and recorded on the plat prior to the grant to
the State, such general description as that contained in the
deed from the canal company.to Peck might properly be presumed to convey only an official quarter of the quarter section.
But in the absence of such official subdivismonal survey the
intention of the parties, as to the amount of land conveyed,
must, when ascertainable, be recognized and carried out. We
think, therefore, the court erred when in its charge it withdrew from the consideration of the jury the evidence which
had been submitted, very properly, we think, tending to prove,
both by the location of the old fMnce, and by the deeds of
adjoining lands executed by the canal commissioners, the
southern boundary line of the premises in dispute.
Another assignment of error urged by counsel for plaintiff
is, that the court erred, in giving the following charge to the
jury "If you believe from the evidence that in 1874, when
the plaintiff attained his majority, he knew of the action of
the village of Hyde Park in laying out, opening and improving the street, and that thereafter and until the partition suit
was commenced, in 1881 or later, the street was maintained
and used with his knowledge and without objection by him,
you are authorized to infer that he consented to a dedication
to that use of so much of the McKey tract as is embraced
within the present limits of the street."

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

This instruction was repeated in the following more unqualified language "The plaintiff became of age m 1874, and if
the village of Hyde Park took possession of this strip of land
in 1873, and he knew of that possession and the continued use
and improvement of the street and made no objection, if with
full knowledge of everything that was done from 1874, when.
he was of age, until Mr. Greeley informed him for the first
time that he was the owner or part owner of the 23 feet,-then
he cannot recover as against the village of Hyde Park."
However correct technically, as an abstract proposition, the
first part of this charge may be, we do not think the last paragraph of it, above quoted, states the law of *Illinoisas to what
constitutes a dedication of real property in that State,. as interpreted by her Supreme Court. In City of Bloomington v
Cemetery Assocation, 126 Illinois, 221, 227, 228, the court
laid down the principle that mere "non-action will not raise
an implication of an intention to dedicate private property to
public use, nor will it estop the owner to deny such intention."
After repeating the doctrine in the language of preceding cases,
the court proceeded thus "But it is said that he, and his
grantee, the plaintiff, should be estopped to deny a dedication
because of the public user of the land in question as a part of
the street without objection on their part. Had the plaintiff,
or its grantor, by any equivocal overt acts or declaraions,
given evidence of an intention to have the land in question
included in the street, and thereby induced the public to use
and the city to improve it as a part of the street, possibly the
doctrine of estoppel might have been invoked. No such acts
or declarations however are shown. All that is proved is mere
non-action on their part, or, in other words, a mere omission
to assert their title as against the public. Mere non-action will
not raise an implication of an intention to dedicate private
property to public use, nor will it estop the owner to deny
such intention." See, also, Herkold v City of Chicago, 108
Illinois, 467, Peyton v Shaw, 15 Bradwell (Ill. App.) 192.
In Kyle v Town of logan, 87 Illinois, 64, 66, 67, the court
states the same doctrine as follows. "In order to justify a
claim that title to a tract of land has been divested by dedi-

McKEY v. -HYDE PARK.
Opinion of the Court.

cation, the .proof should be very satisfactory, either of anactual intention to dedicate or of such acts and declarations
as should equitably estop the owner from denying such intention.
The owner of the land mu~t do some act, or
suffer some act to be done, from which, it can be fairly inferred
he" intended a dedication to the public- Acquiescencei with
knowledge of the use by the public, without objection, is not,
as held by. the Circuit. Court, conclustve evidence cf a dedication, for it may be. rebutted. The second instruction for
appellees, announcing this principle, was erroneous. A dedication, from an user of" twenty years, and for a shorter -time,
may be presumed, but it is not conclusive. The owner pmght
show any fact which would overcome'tbe presumption."
In City of Cl/zcago v Johnson, 98. Illinois, 618, 624, 625, the
"A
court laid down -the doctrine on this subject as follows
dedication of private property 'to public uses will not be held
to be established, excelit upon satisfactory'proof, either of. an
actual dedication, or of such acts or declarations as should
equitably estop the owner from denying such intention. This
proposition is so clearly the law, it needs -the citation of no
authorities in its support,"
In the still earlier case of. Afcllntyre v. Storey,. 80 Illinois,
127, 130, the court said "A dedication of the right of way
for a highway may be variously proven. It may be established by grant or written instrument, or by the acts and
declirations. of the owner of the premises. 'It may be inferred
from long and uninterrupted' user by the public, .with the
knowledge and consent of the owner; but this court has had
frequent occasion to say, tnere must .be a clear intent shown
to make the dedication. The evidence offered for that pur.o
pose should be clear, either of an actual intent so to do, or
of such acts or declarations as will equitably estop the owner
from denying such intent;" niting .Marcy v Taylor, 19
Illinois, 634, -elly v City of Clhicago, 48 Illinois,'388 ;- God
frey v "City of Alton, 12 Illinois, 29.
In City of Cktcago v Stinson, 124T'Ilinois, .510, 513, 514,
the court said.
"Before, title can -be divested by .dedication, the proof 'must be very satisfactory, either cf .an actual
__yoL.cxxx=v-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

intention to dedicate, or of such acts or declarations as should
equitably estop the owner from denying such intention;" citing
Kelly v City of Ckwago, 48 Illinois, 388. "Long use and
long acquiescence in such use by the owner of land are sometimes regarded as, in and of themselves, evidence of a dedication. In cases, however, of implied or presumed acquiescence
or consent on the part of the owner, very much depends
upon the location of the road or street, the amount of travel,
the nature of the use of the public, the rights asserted by the
public, the knowledge of the owner, and like circumstances,"
citing Onstott v Murray, 22 Iowa, 457.
"We have said
'Acquiescence, with knowledge of the use by the public, without objection, is not
conclusive evidence of a dedication, for it may be rebutted,' citing KEyle v Town, of logan,
87 Illinois, 64. The two prominent elements to be considered,
in determining whether there has been a common law dedication or not, are the intention of the owner to dedicate, and
the acceptance by the public of the in'tended dedication.
'The owner of the land must do some act, or suffer some act
to be done, from which it can be fairly inferred he intended a
dedication to the public;"' citing Kyle v. Town of Logan.
supra.

Under these authorities we think the court below committed
error in that part of the charge to which we have just referred. The principle established by them is, that a dedicatior of a street or highway may be inferred from a long and
uninterrupted user by the public with the knowledge and consent of the owner, but that mere knowledge and non-action
or failure to assert one's rights are not conclusive evidence of
such dedication, for they may be rebutted, and the party is
always allowed to show facts and circumstances to overcome
such presumption.
In the case at bar the facts were shown that at the -time the
village opened the street through the property of the plaintiff
he was a minor and .a non-resident, that though he -became
of age the year after, he was then, and up to a short time
before this suit was brought, a non-resident, living at Janesville, Wisconsin, and there was no evidence to show that he

