PO11L v. ANCHOR BREWING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

POHL v. ANCHOR BREWING CO.
AFPEA_ FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UXITED

STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 1269.

Submitted January 10, 1890. -Decided

Maych 24,1890.

Under ยง 4887 of the Revised Statutes, which provides that " every patent
granted for an invention which has been previously patented in a foreign
country shall be so limited as to expire at the same time with the foreign
patent, or, if there be more than one, at the same time with the one having the shortest term, and in no case shall it be in force more than seventeen years," a United States patent runs for the term for which the
prior foreign patent was granted, without reference to whether the latter patent became lapsed or forfeited in consequence of the failure of
the patentee to comply with the requirements of the foreign patent law.
The case of Bate Refrigerating Co. v. Hammond, 129 U. S. 151, explained.

IN EQurY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

.M" Grosvenor lowrey, .ftr B. F .Thurston,.Hr Clarence
A. Seward and -Hlr J X. Deuel for appellants.
.Xf

_Noah .Davw for Edison Electric Light Company

Xf'

William JT Townsend for appellee.

MR.

JUSTICE BLATCHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity, brought on the 16th of April, 1889,
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of New York, by Carl Pohl and Charles Zoller
against the Anchor Brewing Company, a corporation, for the
.infringement of letters patent, No. 213,447, granted March 18,
1879, on an application filed January 3, 1879, to Carl Pohl,
improvement in barrel and. cask-scrubbing machines."
for an "1
The patent is granted on its face for the term of seventeen
years from March 18, 1879, "subject to the limitation prescribed by sec. 4887, Rev Stats., by reason of German patent
dated September 6, 1877, and French patent dated September

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opmlon of the Court.

3, 1877." It appears, by translations into English of the German and French patents, annexed to the bill, that the German
patent began to run September 6, 1877, and its longest duration was until December 2, 1891, and that the French patent
began to run'from September 3, 1877, and ran for fifteen years.
The defendant put in a plea to the bill, setting forth that, at
the time when Pohl applied for the United States patent, and
at the time it was issued, he was a citizen of the empire of
Germany, that, on the 6th of September, 1877, a German
patent was issued to him for the same invention, for the term
of fifteen years, that, under the German patent law of May
25, 1877, he was required to pay certain annuities on the German patent, and to work the invention in the empire of Germany in the manner and for the term specified by that law; that
in default thereof, the term of the German patent would expire,
and the rights and privileges of the pAtentee under it would
become forfeited and cease, that Pohl neglected and failed to
pay the annuities, and to work the invention in the empire of
Germany in the manner and time required by that law,
whereby and under the provisions of that- law the German
patent became forfeited in 1880, and the term thereof expired,
that, by reason thereof, and under the provisions of section
4887 of the Revised Statutes, the United States patent expired
and the term thereof ended in 1880, and prior to the commencement of this suit, and, at the time it was brought, the
plaintiff had no title to the patent and no rights under it,
that, on the 3d of September, 1877, a patent was issued to
Pohl for the same invention by the proper authorities of the
government of France, for the term of fifteen years, and subject to the provisions of the French patent law of July 5, 1844,
that, under those provisions, a patentee who failed to pay his
annuity as required by that law, before the beginning of each
year of the duration of his patent, or who, failed to put his invention in working order in France within two years from the
signature of the patent, or who ceased such working during
two consecutive years, would forfeit all right under the patent,
that Pohl neglected and failed to pay his annuity as required
by such law, and failed to put his alleged invention in working

POHL v. ANOHOR BREWfING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

order in France within two years from the signature of the
patent, and ceased such working during two consecutive years,
whereby, under the provisions of the French patent law, the
French patent was forfeited and the time and term thereof
expired, and the rights of Pohl thereunder ceased, and that,
under the provisions of section 4887 of the Revised Statutes,
the United States patent expired and the term thereof ended
prior to the commencement of this suit, and at that time the
plaintiffs had no title to the patent and no exclusive rights
thereunder.
The plea was set down for argument, and the Circuit Court,
held by Judge Wallace, sustained the plea-and dismissed the
bill. To review that decree the plaintiffs have appealed.
Section 4887 of the Revised Statutes, on Which the question
involved. in this case arises, reads as follows "No person
shall be debarred from receiving a patent .for his invention or
discovery, nor shall any patent be declared invalid, by reason
of its having been first patented or caused to be patented in a
foreign country, unless the same has been introduced into
public use in the United States for more than two years prior
to the application. But every patent granted for an invention
which has been previously patented in a foreign country shall
be so limited as to expire at the same time with the foreign
patent, or, if there be more than one, at the same time with
the one having the shortest tera, and in no case shall it be in
force more than seventeen years." The particular question
involved is as to the meaning of the language of the second
paragraph of the section.
The United States patent iii the present case, granted March
18, 1879, was granted for an invention which had been
patented previously, in September, 1877, in Germany and i
France. It must be, therefore, by the terms of section 4887,
so limited as to expire at the same time with that one of the
two patents, German and French, "having the shortest term."
The German patent on its face appears to have been granted
for a term extending from September 6, 1877, to December
12, 1891, and the French patent for a term extending for fifteen years from September 3, 1877, that is, until September 3,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

1892. If the United States patent does not expire-until the
end of the- term expressed on the face of that one of the two
patents, German and French,. which has the shortest term so
expressed on its face, it does not expire until the end of the
term so expressed on the face of the German patent, namely,
December 12, 1891, and so it had not expired when this suit
was commenced,, and has not yet expired. On the other hand,
if it expired when the German patent became forfeited by
reason of the facts -alleged in the plea in regard to it, or when
the French patent became forfeited by reason of the facts
-alleged in the plea in regard to it, the United States patent
expired prior to the commencement of this suit.
The opinion of the Circuit Court in the present case, 39
Fed. IRep. 782, proceeded upon the view that the "term" of
the foreign patent, referred to in section 4887 was not the
original term expressed in it, but its period of actual existence,
and that the United States patent expired when the foreign
patent having the shortest term was terminated by its lapsing
or becoming forfeited in consequence of the failure of the
patentee to comply with the requirements of the foreign
patent law. The Circuit Court regarded the decision of this
court in Bate Refrzgerating Co. v Hammond, 129 U. S.151,
made in January, 1889, as requiring such decision.
The question involved in the present case has been decided
by several of the Circuit Courts.
In Holmes Electrwal Protectwve Co. v MetropolitanBurglar
Alarm Co., 21 Fed. IRep. 458, in the Circuit Court for the
Southern District of New York, in August, 1884, it was held
by Judge Wheeler, that section 4887 meant that the term of
the United States patent should be as long as the remainder
of the term for which the foreign patent was granted, without
reference to incidents occurring after the grant of the foreign
patent, that that section referred to the fixing of the term of
the foreign patent, and not to the keeping of it in force, and
that the term of the United States patent was not affected by
the fact that a prior English patent had been suffered to lapse
by the non-payment of a tax.
In Paillard v Bruno, 29 Fed. Rep. 864, in the Circuit

POHL v. A.NCHOR

BREWING CO.

Opinon of the Court.

Court-for the Southern District of New York, in December,
1886, it was held by Judge Wallace that, under -section 4887,
a United States patent, for an invention which had been patented previously in England for the term of fourteen years,
did not expire until fourteen years from the date of the
English patent, notwithstanding the grant of the latter pateUt
had terminated by the failure of the patentee to pay a stamp
duty required to be paid as a condition of the continuance of
the grant beyond the term of three years.
In Bate Refrsgerating Co. v Gillett, 31 Fed. Rep. 809, in
the Circuit Court for the District of New Jersey, in August,
1887, before Mr. Justice Bradley, it was held that where an
English patent was granted for a term certain,.provided that
if the patentee should not pay a stamp duty within a certain
time, the patent should cease and determine, a United States
patent afterwards granted for the same invention was not
affected by a forfeiture of the foreign patent subsequently
incurred by a failure to perform such condition, that the
term of the English patent fixed the term of the Hnited
States patent, that the subsequent fate of the English patent
had no effect upon the United States patent, and that the
life of each, after its inception, proceeded independently of
the life of the other. As authority for this view, Mr. Justice
Bradley cited the cases above referred to, of Holmes Electrical Protective Co: v Mketropolitan Burylar Alarm Co. and
Paillardv. Bruno.
Prior to the decision of the Circuit Crrt in the present
case, and in May, 1889, in Huber v irelson 1.1'Pg Co., 38
Fed. Rep. 830, in the Circuit Court for the Eastern District
of Missouri, before Judge Thayer, it was held that a 'United
States patent, granted after an English patent for the same
invention had lapsed and become void by reason of the nonpayment of a stamp duty, was granted without authority of
law This decision was made on the interpretation which the
court gave to the case of Bate Refingerating Co. v. Hammond.
But we think that the question involved in the present case
is not the same as that decided in Bate 1efrzgerating Co. v
VOL. cxxxxv-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Hammond, and is not controlled by the decision in that case.
There, a United States patent was granted in November, I877,
for seventeen years. A patent for the same invention had
been granted in Canada to the same- patentee for five years
from January, 1877. The Canadian patent was, in December,
1881, extended for five years from January, 1882, and also
for five years from January, 1887, under a Canadian statute
passed in 1872. The question involved was whether, under
section 4887, the United States patent expired, in January,
1882, or in January, 1892. This court, limiting itself to the
precise question invoived, said that it was "of opinion that,
in the present case, where the Canadian statute under which
the extensions of the Canadian patent were granted, was in
force when the United States patent was issued, and also
when that patent was applied for, and where, by the Canadian
statute, the extension of the patent for Canada was a matter
entirely of right, at the option oi the patentee, on his payment
of a required fee, and where the fifteen years' term of the
Canadian patent has been continuous and without interruption, the United States patent does not expire before the end
of the fifteen years' duration of the Canadian patent." This
was said on the view, expressed elsewhere in the opinion, that
the Canadian patent did not expire, and it never could have
been said properly that it would expire, before January, 1892.
The ground of this conclusion was that the "term" of the
Canadian patent granted in January, 1877, was by the Canadian statute at all times a term of fifteen years' duration,
made continuous and uninterrupted by the action of the patentee, as a matter entirely of right, at his own option.
By parity of reasomng, as applied to the present case, section 4887 requires that the United States patent shall be so
limited as to expire at the same time with the term limited by
the foreign patent issued prior to the issuing of the United
States patent, having then the shortest time to run. There is
nothing in the statute which admits of the view that the duration of the United States patent is to be limited by anything
but the duration of the legal term of the foreign patent in
force at the time of the issuing of the United States patent, or

POHL v. ANCHORI BREWING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

that it is to be limited by any lapsing or forfeiture of any portion of the term of such foreign patent, by means of the operation of a condition subsequent, according tothe foreign statute. In saying that "every patent granted for an invention
which has been.previously patented in. a foreign country shall
be so limited as to expire at the same time with the foreign
patent," the statute manifestly -assumes that the patent previously granted in a foreign country is one granted for a definite -term, and its meaning.-is, that the United States patent
shall be so limited as to expire at the same time with such
term 6f the foreign patent. Such term was held, in Bate Refjrgerating Co. v. Hammond, to be fifteen years and not five
years.
This view is made conclusive by the requirement of section
4887, that if there be more than on.e prior foreign patent, the
United States-patent shall be so limited as to expire at the
same time with that one of such foreign patents "having the
shortest term." This means the foreign patent which, at the
time the United States patent is granted, has then the shortest
term to run, irrespective of the fact that the foreign patent may
afterwards lapse or become forfeited by the non-observance of
a condition subsequent prescribed by the foreign statute.
In the view that section 4887 is to be read as if it said that
the United States patent is to be so limited as to expire at
the same time with the expiration of the term of the foreign
patent, or if there be more than one, at the same time with
the expiration of the term of the one having the shortest
term, the interpretation we have given to it is in harmony
with the interpretation of the words "expiration of 'term" in
analogous cases. Oakley v. &hoonmaker, 15 Wend. 226, Beach
v Nixon., 9 N. Y 35, Farnum,v Platt,8 Pick. 338. In those
cases'it was held that the words "expiration of term" do not
mean expiration of term through a forfeiture by breach of a
condition, but mean expiration by lapse of time.
The decree of the ircust. Court ,ts. reversed,, and the ease ms
remanded I- that court with a direction to overrule, wiih
costs, the plea of the defendant, to asszgn it to answer the
bill, and to. take such further proceedings as shall not be
no-onststent with the opmzson .of ths court.

