OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Counsel for Parties.

1871, or any decree subsequent to that date, was, in any degree, the result bf fraud or collusion.
The decree is
Afflrmed.
MR. CHrEF JUsTiCE FULLER took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

LEAVE1'-WORTH'COIUNTY COMMISSIONERS v. CHI-

CAGO, ROCK ISLAND AND PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 251. Argued April 3, 1890.-

Decided April 14, 1890.

A consolidation of railroad companies in Missouri, under the act of Missouri of March 24, 1870, ยง 1, held valid.
A provision for the filing with the -Secretary of State, by each of the consolidating companies, of a resolution accepting the provisions of the act,
passed by a majority of the stockholders, at a meeting called for the
purpose, was not observed, but its non-observance did not render the
consolidation void.
The object of the statute was tO prevent the consolidation of competing
roads, and to confine it to roads forming a continuous line.
A certified copy from the office of the Secretary of State of the copy of the
articles of consolidation filed there, under the statute, is conclusive evidence of the consolidation in every suit except one brought by the State
to have the consolidation declared void.
A foreclosure of a mortgage on a railroad, and its sale under a decree, held
valid, in a suit attacking them for fraud, because of the trust relations
of the parties, when there was no collusion or fraud in fact.

INr EQUITY. Decree dismissing the bill.
pealed. The case is stated in the opinion.

The plaintiffs ap-

.Mr S. S. Gregory and Mr J X1. Flower (with whom was
.Mr D ZK Tenney on the brief) for appellants.
.Mr Thwmas F Witkrow (with whom was Mr -M. A. Low
on the brief) for appellee.

LEAVENWORTH v. CHICAGO &c. 'RAILWAY CO. 689
Opinion of the Court.
YM.

JusTicE BLATOHFoRD delivered the opinion of the court.

The bill in this case was filed in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of Missouri, on the 25th
of September, 1882, by the Board of County Commissioners
of the County of Leavenworth, a municipal corporation of the
State of Kansason behalf of itself and of all other stockholders
of The Chicago and Southwestern. Railway Company, chartered in Missouri, against The Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific
Railway Company, an Illinois corporation, The Chicago and
Southwestern Railway Company in Iowa, The Chicago and
Southwestern Railway Company, (consolidated,) The Iowa
Southern and Missouri Northern Railroad Company, the lastnamed three companies being Iowa corporations, The Chicago
and Southwestern Railway Company, a Missouri corporation,
David Dows and Frederick S. Winston, citizens of New York,
and Calvin F Burnes, a citizen of Missouri. The plaintiff suesas the owner of $300,000 out of $3,000,000 of the capital stock
of The Platte City and Fort Des Moines Railroad Company, 6"
Missouri corporation, which stock it originally subscribed for
and paid for at par. The Circuit Court, held by Mr. Justice
Miller, on a final hearing on pleadings and proofs, dismissed
the bill, 25 Fed. Rep. 219, and the plaintiff has appealed.
The following are the material facts of the case, in the view
we take of it, substantially as they are set forth in the opinion
of Mr. Justice Miller, delivered in the Circuit Court The
Platte City and Fort. Des Moines Railroad Company wascreated for the purpose of constructing and operating a>railroad to commence at a point on the Missouri River opposite
or nearly opposite the city of Leavenworth, Kansas, and run
thence northeasterly to a point on the state line between
Missouri and Iowa in the direction of Fort Des Moines.
The name of the company was afterwards lawfully changed to
the Leavenworth and Des Moines Railway Company, and later.
to the Chicago and Southwestern Railway Company Such
changes, however, werer merely of name and without prejudice to the rights of stockholders in such orijnal company..
This comnany was also authorized by law to build '. branch
VOL. cxxxiv--44

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

road from some point on the main line to a point on the
north line of Missouri in the direction of Ottumwa, Iowa.
On the 12th of May, 1869, a corporation was duly formed
under the general laws of Iowa, and called the Chicago and
Southwestern Railway Company in Iowa, for the purpose of
building and operating a railroad from Washington, in Iowa,
southwesterly, to meet the road of said Chicago and Southwestern Railway Company, chartered in Missouri, at the state
line between Iowa and Missouri. The capital stock of this
Iowa corporation was fixed in the articles of incorporation at
$3,000,000, and it was provided in said articles "that in the
event of the consolidation of this corporation with the Chicago
and Southwestern Railway in Missouri, the company in which
the two companies may be consolidated shall have the power
to subject the said corporation to such amount of indebtedness
or liability as the board of directors may deem necessary, not
exceeding, however, six million of dollars."
On the 25th of September, 1869, these two companies adopted
articles of consolidation and became one company under the
name The Chicago and Southwestern Railway Company, for
the purpose of building a railroad from some point on the
Washington branch of the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific
Railroad, in the State of Iowa, to the Missouri River, in the
State of Missouri, at a point on the Missouri River opposite or
neatly opposite the city of Leavenworth, in the State of Kansas. In the proceedings which resulted in this act of consolidation the county of Leavenworth, as one of the stockholders
in the Chicago and Southwestern Railway Company of Missouri, was represented by its duly appointed agent, who gave
his assent to the consolidation.
On the 1st of October, 1869, six days after this consolidation,
the new company entered into a contract with the Chicazo,
Rock Island and Pacific Railroad Company, whereby it agreed
to issue its bonds to the amount of $5,000,000, payable thirty
years after date, bearing interest at the rate of seven per cent
per annum, for which coupons were to be attached to the bonds,
the. whole to be secured by a mortgage on its entire line of
road to the Missouri River.

LEAVENWO= v. CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO.

691

Opinon of the Court.

In-consideration that the proceeds of those bonds should be
placed in the hands of the Rock Island Company, and ceitain
advantages be secured to that company by the contract, in the
way of connection and running arrangements between the two
companies and their roads, the Rock Island Company agreed
to endorse those bonds, and out of the proceeds of their sale
to pay the interest on all of them, until the new road was constructed and turned over to the Southwestern Company In pursuance of this agreement the Southwestern Company
issued its bonds to the amount of $5,000,000, and placed them
in the possession of the Rock Island Company, and on the
6th of October, 1889, made and delivered to the defendants
Dows, Winston, and Burnes, a deed of trust upon their entire
line of road from the Missouri River, in Missouri, to a point
on the Wahington Branch of the Chicago, Rock Island and
Pacific Railroad in Iowa, to secure the payment of the bonds
and interest, as agreed. The Rock Island Company endorsed
the bonds and sold them in open market, or paid them, with
its guaranty on them3 to the contractors who built the road.
On the 16th of August, 1871, articles of consolidation were
signed between the Chicago and Southwestern Railway Company of the States of :Missouri and Iowa and another company
organized under the laws of the State of Missouri, by the name
of the Atchison Branch of the Chicago and. Southwestern
Railway Company, which was authorized to construct a road
from a point on the east bank of the Missouri River opposite
the city of Atchison, in the State of Kansas, by the most
practicable route, to a junction with the Chicago and Southwestern Railway These articles of consolidation were duly
filed in the office of the Secretary of State of the State of
Missouri according to the law of that State. The validity of
that consolidation is assailed by the plaintiff on the ground
that it is void by reason of a failure to conform to the laws of
Missouri.
The original bill prays for the appointment of a receiver to
take possession of the railroad operated by the Chicago, Rock
Island and Pacific Railway Company, extending from Washington in Iowa to the Missouri River, and for a decree declar-

OCTOBER TERIVI, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

ing the articles of consolidation between the Chicago and
Southwestern Railway Company, chartered in Missouri, and
the Chicago and Southwestern Railway Company in Iowa, to
be void, that those companies and the stockholders of each be
remitted to their rights as existing before such attempted consolidation, that the $5,000,000 of bonds and their coupons,
and the trust deed securing them,.be decreed to be void as a
lien upon the road, that the trust deed be cancelled by the
trustees, as a cloud upon the title, that all payments of interest
made on those bonds by the Rock Island Company or for such
,consolidated company, on any account whatever, be adjudged to
have been voluntary and unauthorized, that it be declared that
no right of action ever existed for the reimbursement thereof;
that the proceedings for the foreclosure, hereinafter mentioned,
of the trust deed, be decreed to have been and to be collusive,
fictitious, and fraudulent, that the decree therein, the sale
thereunder, the personal judgment against the consolidated
company, and all other proceedings had under such decree be
held to be fraudulent and void, jthat the organization of the
.Iowa Southern and Missouri Northern Railroad Company,
hereinafter mentioned, the consolidation of the last-named
company with the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway
Company, and all acts done by either in execution or confirmation thereof, be adjudged to be void, that an accounting be
had between the plaintiff and the Southwestern Railway Company, chartered in Missouri, on the one part, and the other
defendants charged as trustees, .on the other part, as to all
proceedings had by either, involving the receipt or lawful
disbursement of money, in which the plaintiff or the Chicago
and Southwestern Railway Company, chartered in Missouri,
had or have any interest, as well as for the use and occupation
of the road and franchises of the latter company, that the
true balance be ascertained, and the parties from whom and
to whom payable, that, if the balance should be found due to
the plaintiff or to the latter company, a decree be given for
its. recovery against the party indebted, and, if the balance be
found against the plaintiff or that company, the plaintiff or it
be decreed to pay the same, which the plaintiff offers to do,

LEAVENWORTH v. CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO.

693

Opumon of the Court.

that the line of railroad running from the Missouri Rivei
opposite or nearly opposite the city of Leavenworth in Kansas;
by way of Cameron, to the state line between Iowa and
Missouri, be decreed to belong to the Chicago and Southwestern
Railway Company, chartered in Missouri, that the same be
delivered up to that company, free and discharged of all liens;
and that that company and the plaintiff be re-established in
all the rights, properties, and franchises of that line of railroad, and for general relief.
The Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company
answered the bill, and Dows and Winston, trustees, also
answered it, those answers being filed on the 5th of March,
1883. On the 30th of March, 1883, the plaintiff fied exceptions to the first answer, and on the 2d of April, 1883, exceptions to the second answer. These exceptions were heard by
the court, held by Judges McCrary and Krekel, and were-overruled. The opinion of the court, delivered by Judge McCrary,
is reported in 18 Fed. Rep. 209. The conclusion of the court
was, that the articles of consolidation between the Chicago
and Southwestern Railway Company in Missouri and the
Iowa corporation of the same name, having been entered into
on the 25th of September, 1869, and the bill not having beenfiled until the 25th of September, 1882, and a case of concealed fraud not being shown, the defences of laches and of a
bar under the Statute of Lunitations of Missouri, set up in the
answers, must be sustained.
On the 16th of February, 1884, the plantiff filed an amended
bill, with substantially the same prayers as those of the original.
bill.
To resume the history of the road, it was completed after
several years, and the money with which this was done was
mainly raised by the sale of the bonds of the Southwestern
Company, endorsed by the Rock Island Company, and- the
Rock Island Company paid the interest on the bonds, as it
had assumed to do. The possession of the road, as it became
fit for use, was taken by the Rock Island Company, so that,
when it was completed from one end to the other, it was m.
the possession and use of that company and so remained, for.

OTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

two or three years afterwards. The Rock Island Company
says, in its answer, that it paid the interest on the bonds out
of the sale of the bonds themselves, according to the contract,
until the road was finished, and after that paid it out of its
own money, by reason of its obligation as guarantor or endorser of the bonds. After interest had thus accrued and
been paid in this latter mode to the amount of $1,000,000,
according to its statement, it made application to the trustees
in the deed of trust for a foreclosure, under the provisions of
that deed, on account of the default of the Southwestern Company in paying such interest. The trustees accordingly brought
such a suit in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa where a decree was rendered. A sale of the
Southwestern road was made to a corporation organized under the laws of Iowa for its purchase. Under that sale a deed
was made to that company by the Chicago and Southwestern
Railway Company, by order of the court, and the deed and
sale were confirmed. To that suit of foreclosure the Chicago
and Southwestern Railway Company and the Chicago, Rock
Island and Pacific Railway Company and others were made
defendants, and the two companies appeared by counsel.
After the second consolidation, in which the Atchison
Branch came into the Southwestern Company, that company
issued bonds to raise money for the construction of this
Atchison Branch, and a mortgage or deed of trust was made to
seaure the payment of those bonds, which was a first mortgage
on the Atchison Branch and a second mortgage on the remainder of the consolidated company's road. The trustees in that
mortgage were made defendants in the foreclosure suit, and the
helders of the bonds so secured were afterwards, on motion,
admitted to defend for their interest in the suit.
After the sale of the road under the decree, and its purchase
by the new organization, which was called the Iowa Southern
and Missouri Northern Railroad Company, that company
entered into a consolidation with the Chicago, Rock Island
and Pacific Company, which consolidation included other
roads,. or pieces of roads, built under the auspices of the Rock
Island Company, all of which were now consolidated under

LEAVENWORTH v. CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO. 695
Opimon of the Court.

the name of the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway
Company, which is the principal defendant in this suit.
This suit of the county of Leavenworth is founded on the
proposition that the attempted consolidation of the Chicago
and Southwestern Company with the Atchison Branch Company is utterly void, and that, as the real Southwestern Company, which issued the bonds and made the mortgage on
which the foreclosure suit and sale were based, was never
served with process or appeared in that suit, that decree and
foreclosure sale are also void. As the real Southwestern Company, which gave this mortgage, refuses to take any steps to
assert its rights, the county of Leavenworth, as one of its
stockholders, comes forward, on behalf of itself and othier
stockholders, to do so, and prays that the decree and sale under the proceedings in the Iowa Circuit Court be set aside
and held for naught, as well as the pretended second consolidation. Should this second consolidation be held valid, then
it asks that the sale of the road under that decree, and the
decree itself, be set aside and held for naught, on the ground
of fraud and abuse of trust by the Rock Island Company
The first question considered by the Circuit Court was,
whether the consolidation with the Atchison Branch was so
void that no company formed by such consolidation had an
existence making it capable of doing any business, and especially of being a defendant in the suit to foreclose the mortgage for $5,000,000. The court said. "It is obvious thataslf
this second consolidated company was not the legal owner of
the Chicago and Southwestern Railroad, and was not liable
for the bonds and mortgage, then no company was before the
court which foreclosed that mortgage, which had any interest
in the road, or was under any obligation to defend the suit.
As we have already stated that the first consolidated company was not before that court at all, nor represented in the
proceedings, except as it was a part of the second consolidated
company, it would therefore follow that the foreclosure proceedings are void as to the real Chicago and Southwestern
Company, the sale of its road is void, and the consolidation
with the Chicago and Rock Island, as transferring the owner-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

ship of that road, is ineffectual, and the real Southwestern
Company, under the first consolidation, is still in existence, is
the legal owner of the road, and has a right to pay the overdue interest on its bonds, and to take possession of it."
The consolidation took place in Missouri under an act of
that State approved March 24, 1870, (Laws of 25th General
Assembly, adjourned- session, p. 89,) the first section of which
is as follows "Section 1. Any two or more railroad companies in this State, existing under either general or special
laws, and owning railroads constructed wholly or in part,
which, when completed and connected, will form in the whole
or in the main one continuous line of railroad, are hereby
authorized to consolidate in the whole or in the main, and
form one company owning and controlling such continuous
line of road, with all the powers, rights, privileges, and immunities, and subject to all the obligations and liabilities to
the State, or otherwise, which belonged to or rested upon
either of the companies making such consolidation. In order
to accomplish such consolidation, the companies interested
may enter into contract fixing the terms and conditions
thereof, which shall first be ratified and approved by a majority in interest of all the stock held in each company or
road proposing to consolidate, at a meeting of the stockholders regularly called for the purpose or by the approval,
in writing, of the persons or parties holding and representing
a majority of such stock. A certified copy of such articles of
agreement, with the corporate name to be assumed by the
new company, shall be filed with the secretary of State, when
the consolidation shall be considered duly consummated, and
a certified. copy from the office of the secretary of State shall
be deemed conclusive evidence thereof. The board of directors of the several companies may then proceed to carry out
such contract according to its provisions, calling in the certificates of stock then outstanding in the several companies or
roads, and issuing certificates of stock in the new consolidated
company under such corporate name as may have been
adopted. promded, however, that the foregoing provisions of
this section shall not be construed to authorize the consolida-

LEAVENWORTE v. CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO. 697
Opimon of the Court.

tion of any railroad companies or roads, except when by such
consolidation a continuous line .of road is secured, running-in
the whole or in the main in the same general direction, and
povm&d, it shall not be lawful for said roads to consolidate
in. the whole or in part, when by so doing it will deprive the
public of the benefit of competition between said roads. And
in case any such railroad companies shall consolidate or attempt to consolidate their roads contrary to the provisions
of this act, such consolidation shall be void, and any person
or party aggrieved, whether stockholders or not, may bring
action against them in the Circqit Court of any county
through which such road -may pass, which court shall have
jurisdiction in the case and power to restrain by injunction or
otherwise. And in case any railroad in this State shall hereafter intersect any such consolidated road, said road or roads
shall have the right to run their freight cars without breaking
bulk upon said consolidated road, and such consolidated road
shall transact the business of said intersecting or connecting
road or roads on fair and reasonable terms, and the same may
be enforced by appropriate legislation. Before any railroad
companies shall consolidate their roads, under the provisions of
this act, they shall each file with the secretary of State a resolution accepting, the provisions thereof, to be signed by their
respective presidents and attested by their respective secretaries, under the seal of their respective companies, which
resolution shall have been passed by a majority vote of the
stock of each at a meeting of the stockholders thereof, to be
called for the purpose of considering the same."
The Circuit Court, after quoting this section of the statute,
proceeds to say "A certified copy of the articles -of agreement under which the consolidation was effected, with the
corporate name of the .new company, was duly filed with the
secretary of State, as this law requires. But there is no evidence in this record of the filing with the secretary of State,
by each of the companies so consolidated, of a resolution accepting the provisions of the act, passed by a majority of the
stockholders, at a meeting of stockholders, called for the purpose of considering the same, nor is there any evidence of such

OCTOBER TERM, 1889,
Opinion of the Court.

meeting of the stockholders of the companies separately, except such as may be implied from the certified copy of the
articles of agreement of consolidation duly filed in the secretary's office. Is the absence of any evidence of these meetings and of the passage of the resolutions to accept the provisions of the act by the respective companies fatal to the
creation of the new consolidated company, when all other
requirements of the statute shall have been complied with 2
It will be observed that this is the last provision in the statute,
though the thing ordered to be done is one of the first steps
required in the process. It is also a provision which may well
be held to be directory, and designed to secure evidence that
each of the companies intending to consolidate recognized the
statute as the sole authority for such consolidation, and their
obligation to be governed by its provisions. If the other
essential provisions of the act were complied with, it does not
necessarily follow that the whole proceeding would be void
for a failure to comply with this direction of the act. It is
argued, however, that by the express language of the statute
it is declared that, ' in case any such railroad companies shall
consolidate or attempt to consolidate their roads contrary to
the provisions of this act, such consolidation shall be void, and
any person or party aggrieved, whether stockholders or not,
may bring action against them in the circuit court of any
county through which such road may pass, which court shall
have jurisdiction in the case and power to restrain by injunction or otherwise.' This sentence does not come after but
before the provision concerning the resolution accepting the
law under which consolidation is made. In the orderly
succession of ideas, this concerning the accepting the provisions of the statute was not in the mind of the draftsman when the provision making the consolidation void was
penned. On the other hand, the limitation that the companies which are authorized to consolidate are only those
whose roads when united 'will form in the whole or in the
main one continuous line of railroad,' and that this authority
'shall not be construed to authorize the consolidation of any
railroad companies or roads, except when by such consolida-

LEAVENWORTH v. CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY 0O. 699
Opimoix of the Court.

tion a continuous line of road is secured, running in the whole
or in the main in the same general direction,' and ' it shall not
be lawful for said roads to consolidate in the whole or in part,
when by doing so it will deprive the public of the benefit of
competition between said roads,' immediately precedes the
declaration that anty attempt to consolidate contrary to the
provisions of the act shill be void. It is the consolidation of
such roads as do not form when so consolidated one continuous line, but may be made up of parallel and competing lines,
which is forbidden and declared to be void. The language of
the remedy prescribed by the statute indicates that it is for the
violation of this principle that it is given. The court of the
county in which the road lies. or through which it passes, not
that where the company has its organization or offices, shall
have jurisdiction, and the remedy shall be to restrain the company by injunction or otherwise. It is the continuity or parallelism of the roads, the benefit of competition by roads
between the same points, Which is to be secured, And it is
clear that the legislature was not ,so much interested about
the companies and their amalgamation into one company as
they were that rival roads and competing roads should not be
consolidated and brought under the same control. I doubt
very much whether the legislature intended to declare that
even for a violation of this principle, much less of any of the
other mere details of the mode of accomplishing this consolidation, it should be absolutely void, void ab tnztio, void anywhere and under all circumstances, but only, as the word
'void' is so often used in legislation and in written agreements, that it should be voidable, that if on investigation the
roads were of that character which the statute forbids to be
consolidated, the proper court could so declare and annul and
avoid the consolidation. This is the more reasonable, as the
parallelism or competing character of the two roads, if it were
disputed, could only be satisfactorily ascertained by a judicial
investigation, and it could not be permitted that any man
who wished to do so could'assume for himself that the consolidation was void and act accordingly Without the aid of the
statute, if the legislature or the governor or the attorney-gen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

eral of the State believed the roads were not such as the law
permitted to be consolidated, they could, by the institution of
proper proceedings in a court of justice, have the act of consolidation annulled, if they were correct in their views. This
statute confers the right on any person aggrieved by such
improper consolidation to have relief by application to the
proper court, whict; would not otherwise exist.
"In regard to the acceptance of the provisions of the consolidation act to be filed with the secretary of State, this is
eminently a matter between the State and the corporations
whose rights are affected, and if, on a.failure to file such acceptance, the consolidation is to become void, it is the privilege
of the State to enforce the forfeiture or annulment, and not
of every private person who shows an injustice or. injury done
to himself. But if this was more doubtful than it is, it appears
to me that the proposition here insisted on is concluded by
this language of the act ' A -certified copy of such articles of
agreement [for. consolidation], with the corporate name to be
assumed by the new company, shall be filed with the secretary
of State, when the consolidation shall be considered duly consummated, and a certified copy from the office of the secretary
of State shall be deemed conclusive evidence thereof.' This
certified copy from the secretary's office is to be considered
evidence of something. Let us consider what and its effect as
evidence. 1. Of what is it to be a copy2 Of the articles of
agreement for consolidation made by the companies to be consolidated, not of all the requirements of the statute, preliminary or otherwise. 2. What shall it prove 2 That thereafter
thd consolidation shall be considered duly consummated.
There is no ambiguity in this. It shall be evidence that the
consolidation has been perfected, and has resulted in the creation of a new corporation, whose name is to be found in this
certified copy 3. What is the effect of this evidence 2 The
statute says it shall be conclusive. It is not necessary here to
hold that, in a direct proceeding on the part of the State to
have a declaration of the nullity of such a consolidation, no
evidence can be received to impeach the validity of the original act of consolidation. It is my opinion that in such case

LEAVENWORTH v. CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY O0. 701
Opunon of the Court.

the certified copy from the secretary's office would not be conclusive, but prunafam e, evidence.
"But what is meant and what is reasonable is, that when a
corporation so organized comes into a court of justice, either
as plaintiff or defendant m a contest with individuals or other
corporations in regard to any matter affecting its rights, its
powers, its authority to make contracts, to sue or to be sued,
the production of the paper mentioned shall end all inquiry
into- its existence as a corporation, with such powers as the
law confers on it. It would be burdensome in the extreme,
a hardship altogether unnecessary to any proper purpose, to
require of a corporation doing an immense business to prove,
in every controversy it may have growing out of that business,
that all the steps which the law directs for the consolidation
proceedings have been strictly complied with. The hardship
would be as great on those who sue it for violated duty of
contract, or otherwise, to be required to prove in the same
manner the existence of the corporation which they bring into
court.

"The question of the existence of this corporation arises
incidentally in this effort of the county of Leavenworth to
assert the rights of another company, and, though the bill
prays that the consolidation be held void, it is not the State
which makes this request or institutes or controls this proceeding, nor is the proceeding itself of the character of a direct
suit for the purpose of procuring such a decree, which would
bind the company in any other case.
"I am of the opinion that the consolidation of August,
1871, was valid, and that this corporation thus formed succeeded to the rights, the property, and the obligations of the
Chicago and Southwestern Company created by the consolidation of September, 1869, and that it was the proper party
to be sued and to represent all the interests of all the stockholders in all the corporations of which it was composed,
including the county of Leavenworth as one of these stockholders."
We have carefully considered the views urged on the part
of the appellant, in regard to the propositions thus laid down

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

by the Circuit Court, and are of opinion that those propositions are sound, and it is sufficient for us to express our concurrence in them, without adding more.
The Circuit Court, m its opinion, next discusses the question
of the validity of the proceedings in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Iowa, under which the road
of the Southwestern Company was sold, and afterwards became a part of the new system of consolidated roads held by
the IRock Island Company, and says "The matter is much
simplified by the fact that that court had jurisdiction of the
case, jurisdiction of the parties plaintiff and defendaiit, of all
the necessary parties to the relief sought, and of the subject
matter of the suit. For any mere error of that court in its
decision on matters of law or fact, the proper remedy was by
appeal, and one of the parties did, as to its own interest, take
such appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States, which
affirmed the decree. Another remedy was by bill of review
asking the same court to reconsider and reverse or modify its
decree on the same or on newly discovered evidence. This
course has not been adopted, and it admits of very serious
doubt whether any proceeding can be sustained in any other
court the purpose of which is to set aside the decree of that
court in the matter, of which it had jurisdiction. I know of
no reason why the suit to have a decree declaring null and
void tl~e foreclosure proceedings of that court, by reason of
any fraud in its procurement, whether it be legal fraud implied
from the relations of the parties, or actual fraud practised in
-the progress of the case, should not have been brought in the
court where these proceedings were had.
"Conceding, however, the jurisdiction of this court-tbhe
Circuit Court for the Western District of Missouri - to grant
some form of relief inconsistent with the binding efficacy of
the decrees of the Circuit Court for the District of Iowa, let
us inquire on what grounds the efficacy of those decrees is
denied. Although in the more enlarged use of the word it
may be said the grounds are all founded on fraud, they present
in reality two distinct propositions, namely
"(1) That such were the relations of the trustees in the

LEAVENWORTH v. CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO. 703
Opinion of the Court.

mortgage to the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Company,
at whose instance the mortgage was foreclosed, and the rela.tions of those trustees and the governing officers of the Rock
Island Company to the debtor, the Southwestern Company,
and the relations of the officers of both these companies to
each other and to both of these companies, that there could
be no just and rightful foreclosure as between these parties,
and that the action of the tiustees in the mortgage deed and
of the Rock Island Company. as moved by its officers, in promoting the foreclosure, was a violation of the trust reposed in
all these parties, for the breach of which *thewhole proceeding
must be held void."
By a statement in the brief 6f the counsel for the appellant,
showing the shares of the stock and the stockholders of the
Chicago and Southwestern Railway Company, as voted at
the meetings of the stockholders from 1869 to 1876 -inclusive,
and a list of its officers and directors during the same period,
the fdllowing appears
At the first meeting of the stockholders of the consolidated
company, in 1869, there were present 10,396 shares, being
those held in the original constituent companies. Of these
shares, Leavenworth County voted 3000, the .East Leavenworth Improvement Association 5000, four officers and directors of the Rock Island Company 10 each, and the remaining
shares were held by various individuals in small amounts.
Thirteen directors were elected at that meeting, of whom five
were officers or directors of the Rock Island Railroad Company, one of such five being its general solicitor.
No meeting of the stockholders was held in 1870. In 1871,
at the stockholders' meeting, 67,500 shares were voted, of
which 25,000 were voted by such general solicitor, and 25,000
by another person connected with the Rock Island Company
Of the directory of thirteen .persons. nine were officers or
directors of the Rock Island Company Two of the five officers of the road, namely, the treasurer and transfer agent and
the general solicitor, were connected with the Rock Island
Company, and of the executive. committee of five, three were
officers of the latter company

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

At the stockholders' meeting in 1872, 88,719 shares were
voted, of which 60t933 were voted by persons connected with
the Rock Island Company, and on the day after such meeting
68,2A7 shares of .the stock of the Southwestern Company were
transferred to the president of the Rock Island Company, who
was also a director of the Southwestern Company In 1872,
nine out of the thirteen directors of the Southwestern Company, including the president and the treasurer, were representatives of the Rock Island Company, as were alsoothree out of
the five members of the executive committee.
In 1873, 77,284 shares were voted, of which 68,250 were
voted by persons connected with the Rock Island Company,
all of the shares so voted, except 1505, being represented by
the solicitor of the Rock Island Company Of the board of
directors of the Southwesterix Company during 1872, nine of
the thirteen were officers or directors or employes of the Rock
Island Company
At the stockholders' meeting in 1874, 74,628 shares were
voted, of which all except 504 were voted by representatives
of the Rock Island Company
At the. stockholders' meeting in 1875, 75,781 shares were
voted, all of which were voted by representatives of the Rock
Island Company
At the stockholders' meeting in 1876, 76,788 shares were
voted, all but 505 of which were voted by the general solicitor
of the Rock Island Company, as proxy
At the subsequent meetings of the stockholders, held down
to 1880, .68,246 shares were voted in the interest of the Rock
Island Company It does not appear by the records that there
has been any meeting of the board of directors of the Southwestern Company, or any election of officers of the company
other than directors, since 1876.
rhis state of things is summed up thus in the opinion of the
Circuit Court "It must be admitted that the case made is a
very strong one. One of the trustees of the mortgage deed
was a director in the Rock Island Company, both the others
were stockholders in it. The president of the Rock Island
Company was president of the Southwestern Company A

LEAVENWORTH v. CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY C0.

705

Opinion of the Court.

majority of the directors of the Southwestern Company were
directors in the Rock Island Company There was in the
hands of the president of the Rock Island Company a majority
of the stock of the Southwestern Company. The attorney who
appeared and represented the Southwestern Company had been
previously in the employ of the Rock Island Company, and the
attorneys who brought the foreclosure suit in the name of the
trustees were afterwards, in. many matters, attorneys for the
Rock Island Company, and -one of the attorneys of the Rock
Island Company in the foreclosure suit was at the time a
director in the Southwestern Company"
On these facts the Circuit Court remarks as follows "As
regards the. attorneys it can hardly be admitted as an impeachment of the attorney of the defendant, the Southwestern Company, that he had been or was afterwards an attorney of the
Rock Island Company, nor will it be presumed that if he was
even then in the employment -of the Rock Island Company in
other matters he did not or would not faithfully represent
the Southwestern Company in this matter, and his character
repels any such inference; Nor does the fact that the attorney
of the Rock Island Company was a director in the Southwestern Company, though the interest of the two companies might conflict, preclude him from acting as attorney
for the former company, and we see no reason why the men
then and afterwards attorneys for the Rock Island Company should not represent the trustees in the mortgage as
there was no conflict of interest between the trustees and
In 'reference to the relations
the Rock Island Company
of the officers of the two companies to those companies
and to each other, it is quite apparent, from-the consolidation of the Iowa and the Missouri companies on-the 26th of
September, 1869, and the contract between this consolidated
company and the Rock Island on the.1st day of October, that
the purpose of the Rock Island Company, or of those who
had its control, was to secure .and retain a paramount influence in the directory of the Chicago and Southwestern, and
,in point of fact it cannot be doubted that it did obtain and
exercise at times such control. While it'is not necessary to
VOL. cxxxx--45

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

consider that the purpose of this contract was to injure the
Southwestern Company, but in the view of all the parties it
was to advance the interest of both companies, it is certainly
true that the primary object m the minds of those controlling
the Rock Island Company was to make the other road a subsidiary and feeding road to its own. line. This purpose was
,not necessarily a bad one, and was or might have been consistent with the best interests of both companies. The Rock
Island Company paid a valuable consideration for this control
and the other company received it. It endorsed the bonds of
the. Southwestern Company to the amount of $5,000,000 and
agreed to protect it against a foreclosure of the mortgage
given to secure the payment of these bonds during the period
of construction of the road. The burden of this obligation
and its importance to the success of the undeveloped enterprises of the new company cannot be easily overrated. The
road could not have been built without it. The money for the
construction of the track and laying it with iron came almost
exclusively from the sale of these bonds, and that the money
was raised on them was due, not to the credit of the Southwestern Company or to the mortgage on a road barely begun,
but to the endorsement of the Rock Island Company and the
credit which that endorsement gave to the bonds. This credit
and assumption of liability by the Rock Island Company enabled the Southwestern Company to build its road to completion. There was nothing, therefore, fraudulent or oppressive
in that company's seeking to retain such control of the road
as would enable it to realize the consideration for which it
assumed this obligation of $5,000,000. Matters were m this
condition when the road was completed, but the Southwestern
Company had no means of equipping its road with rolling
stock and meeting other necessary outlays. The Rock Island
Company furnished this, and used the road under an arrangement for lease, never, perhaps, fully consummated. But at
the end of two or three years, in which it kept an account of
receipts and expenditures, it was found that the Southwestern
Company was indebted over a million of dollars for repairs
and construction of the road, and had defaulted in payment

LEANENWORTH v. CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO. 707
Opinion of the Court.

of the interest on its bonds to an amount nearly equal, the
coupons for which had been paid by the Rock Island Company
as endorser, and were held by it. That company determined
then to assert the right which its contract gave to have the
mortgage foreclosed to satisfy the interest which it had paid
on the bonds it had endorsed. Unless there was some injustice
in the manner in which it had managed the road or kept its
accounts, I see no defect in its right to insist on the foreclosure. If the :Rock Island Company had a right to insist on
this foreclosure, it was the duty of the trustees in the deed of
trust to bring the suit for that purpose. I am unable to.see
anything in the fact that some of the same men were found to
be trustees in this deed and directors in the Rock Island Company, and that directors in the Southwestern Company were
also directors in the Rock Island Company, which should
block the course of justice, paralyze the power of the court,
and deprive the creditor corporation of all remedy for the enforcement of its lien. If it could be shown that the Southwestern Company did not owe this interest, or that the Rock
Island Company had in its hands the means of the Southwestern Company to meet this obligation, and that by reason of
collusion between those who controlled both companies this fact
was suppressed or concealed, it would present a strong case for
relief. But this would be actual fraud, and one not necessarily
growing out of the influence of the Rock Island directory over
that of the Southwestern. N~otwithstanding this conningling
of officers, the corporations were distinct corporations. They
had a right to make contracts with each other in their corporate capacities, and they could sue and be sued by each other in
regard to these contracts, and the question is not could they
do these things, but have the relations of the parties - the
trust relations, if indeed such existed-been abused to the
serious injury of the Southwestern Company In regard to
the-legal right of the Rock. Island Company to have the mortgage foreclosed in satisfaction of the sum paid by it for interest after the, completion of the road, it seems to me there can
be no reasonable doubt."
The counsel for the appellant, in his brief, after urging the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

propositions that the plaintiff s entitled to bring and maintain
this suit for the relief prayed, contends that, by reason of the
trust relations existing between the IRock Island and the Southwestern Companies, quite aside from any proof of actual fraud
or damage, the. decree of foreclosure is no bar to the accounting
and relief sought by the bill in this case. To support this proposition the cases are cited of Davoue v. Fannzng,2 Johns. Ch.
252, _Michoud v. Girod, 4 How 503, Foehler v Black River
.Falls Iron Co., 2 Black, 715, Drury v Cross, "7Wall. 299,
.farsh v Whitmore, 21 Wall. 178, 183, 184, Jackson v Ludeling, 21 Wall. 616, Twin Lzck Oil Co. v .Marlury, 91 U. S.
587, W1ardell v Railroad Co., 103 U. S. 651, Thomas v
Railroad Co., 109 U. S. 522, Allen, v Gillette, 127 U. S. 589,
Benson v. Ileathorn, 1 Younge & Coll. 326, Aberdeen Railway Co. v Blakze, 1 -Macqueen, H. L. 461, Lydney &c. Co. v.
Bird, 55 Law Times, N. S. 558, HJloyle v. Plattburgh &
-MontrealRailroad Co., 54 N. Y 314, and other cases.
But, notwithstanding the general principle laid down in the
cases cited, we concur in the views thus taken of the present
case by the Circuit Court, and place our decision as to this
branch of it on the same grounds.
The next proposition considered by the Circuit Court is as to
whether there was any actual fraud perpetrated in tie progress of the foreclosure suit, to the prejudice of the present
plaintiff.
On that question, the Circuit Court says in its opinion
"The principal ground of complaint under this head is, that
the Rock Island Company, being in actual possession and use
of the road on which the mortgage was a lien, should have
used its revenue first to pay the interest and have postponed
the repairs and construction to that purpose. The proper
place to have made this defence was in the foreclosure suit.
Though it may be said that the Southwestern Company made
no such defence because it was in the control of the Rock
Island Company directory, which is plausible if not sound, it
is to be observed that this suit was in the court for more than
a year, that it is har~Ilv possible that the authorities of the
county of Leavenworth did not know of its pendency and who

LEAVENWORTH v; CHICAGO &c. RAILWAY CO. 7'09
Opinion of the Court.

were the directors in its own company, and if it had at any
time appeared in that court and sought to make the defence
it now sets up itwould have been permitted to do so. Such
defence, including.also the correctness of the accounts of the
Rock Island Company, was made by a Mr. Mueller, representative of the bondholders under the second mortgage made
to obtain money to build the Atchison Branch. On his -motion he was made defendant and permitted to file a cross-bill.
The claim of the Rock Island Company for the interest paid
by it as endorser, its claim for expenditures in repairs anu construction, and the correctness of its accounts and its appropriation of the receipts from the Southwestern road, were all assailed by him in a cross-bill and- referred to a master, before
whom his counsel appeared and to whose report he excepted.
This report was confirmed and became the basis of the decree
as to the amount due the Rock Island Company under the mortgage, and of a personal judgment for repairs and construction.
From this decree Mueller took an appeal to the SupreWe Court
of the United States, where the decree was affirmed. But I
must add that even now, after all the proofs taken in the present case, I do not see that, if the county of Leavenworth had
been a party to that suit, or if the counsel for the Southwestern Company had been ever so anxious to prevent a foreclosure, what defence he could'have successfully presented, or how
he could have diminished the amount which the court found to
be due from that company on the mortgage. The case is one
not uncommon of. a road completed which in its first years did
not earn enough money to pay its running e.penses, its necessary repairs, and the interest on its bonded debt. Such roads
have often been sold out under foreclosure proceedings, and
passing.into other hands have become successful and profitable
enterprises. The original owners see then, when it is too late,
that they permitted a valuable property to pass from them
which they would gladly reclaim. But courts of equity do

not sit to restore opportunities or renew possibilities which have
been permitted to pass by the neglect, the ignorance, or even
the want of means of those, to whom they were once presented.
It follows from these views, without reference to many other

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

matters presented for consideration, that the plaintiff is not
entitled to the relief it asks or to any relief founded on this
bill. It must, therefore, be disnssed, and it is so ordered."
On the question thus considered the counsel for the appellant
cites the cases of UnitedStatesv. [hrockmorton, 98 U.S. 61, and
Paci2f Railroadof Missourz v. .issour? Pacoflc Railway, 111
S. 505. But we concur in the views of the Circuit Court,
And are of opinion that it is not shown that the decree in the
foreclosure suit was procured by fraud or collusion. It would
serve no good purpose to exanme in detail the testimony
bearing on this subject.
These conclusions make it unnecessary to consider the defences of the statute of limitations and of laches, as urged by
the appellees.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
Afflrmed.
-MIR.CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

and

AIR. JUsTICE BREWER

not sit in tis case or take any part m its decision.

did

