OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

not less than one year nor more than five years," the penalty
denounced by section 279 and carried into section 5467, in
respect to the embezzlement of mail matter containing articles
of value, "a fine of not more than five hundred dollars, or by
imprisonment for not more than one year, or by both," the
punishment for embezzling mail matter not containing such
articles.
Similar views as to section 5467 were expressed by Judge
Benedict in. Urted States v. Pelletreau, 14 Blatchford, 126,
and Umnited tates v Jenther, 13 Blatchford, 335, and by Judge
Brewer as to section 5469, in Untted States v Falkenhatner,
21 Fed. Rep. 625. Contra, Unted States v Long, 10 Fed.
Rep. 879.
The first question certified is in a form frequently disapproved of. Dublin Township v .Milford Savings Insthtution,
128 U S. 510, 514, United States v ]Aorthway, 120 U S. 327,
United States v Hall, 131 U S. 50. The second question is
answered in the affirmative and it will be

So certf.ed.

RICH v. MENTZ TOWNSHIP
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 229. Argued March 25, 1890.-Decided April 14, 1890.

Where a majority of the taxpayers of a town are authorized by statute to
encumber the property of all, in aid of a railroad or other corporation,
the record must show that the statutory authority has been pursued.
The statute of New York of May-I,

1869, 2 Sess. Laws of 1869, 2303, au-

thorized a county judge, on the petition of a "majority of the taxpayers
of any municipal corporation," verified by the oath of one of the petitioners, for the issue of bonds of the corporation in aid of a railroad, to
take jurisdiction and to proceed, as provided under the act, to determine
whether the bonds should be issued. In 1871 this statute was amended,
2 Sess. Laws 1871, 2115, so as to confer that jirisdiction only when the
application was made by "a majority of the taxpayers" of the municipal

corporation, "not including those taxed for dogs or highway tax only."

RICH v. MEKTZ.
Statement of the Case.
The town of Mentz issued its bonds for such a purpose'on an application
made after the act of 1871 took effect, but which in-language complied
with the act of 1869 only. The Court of Appeals of the State of New
York held these bonds to be void for non-compliance with the provisions
of the act of 1871, and, following the decisions-of that court it is now
Held, that the bonds sued upon by the plaintiff in error are void.
Upon questions similar to the issues in this suit.the decisions of the highest
3udicial tribunal of 1 state are entitled to great, and ordinarily decisive
weight.
There being on the face of the bonds suedl upon an entire want of power to
issue them, no reference need be made to the doctrine-'estoppel.

THis was an action brought by George L. Rich in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of
New York, against the town of Mentz, to recover the amount
of sixty interest coupons attached to certain bonds held by
him, and alleged to have been issued by the town on July 15,
1872, in aid of the Cayuga Northern Railroad Company
The cause was tried by the circuit and district judges, a
jury being duly waived, and the court made its special findings
as follows
"I. On the 18th day of July, 1872, there was filed in the
clerk's office of the county of Cayuga, N. Y., the judgment of
the county judge of said county, with the petition of certain
taxpayers, of which the following are copies
"' County of Cayuga, N. Y
"'In the matter of the application of the taxpayers
of the Towrn of Mentz, Cayuga County, N. Y

f

Petition.

"'To the Honorable the County Judge of the County of Cayuga, N. Y
"' The petition of the subscribers hereto respectfully-shows
That they are a majority of the taxpayers of the town of
Mentz, in the county of Cayuga, and State of New York,
whose names appear upon the last preceding assessment-roll
or tax-list of said town of Mentz, as owning or representing a
majority of the taxable property n the corporate limits of the
said town of Mentz, that they are such a majority of taxpayers, and are taxed or assessed for, or represent, such a majority
of taxable property, that. they desire that said town shall

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

create and issue its bonds to the amount of thirty thousand
dollars, ($30,0O0,) which said amount does not exceed twenty
per centum of the whole amount of taxable property, as shown
by said assessment-roll or list, and invest the same, or the proceeds thereof, in the stock of the Cayuga Northern Railroad
Company, which is a railroad company in the State of New
York.
"' And your petitioners pray your honor to cause to be published the proper notice, to take proof of the facts set forth in
this petition, and that such proceedings may be had thereon
as are authorized and prescribed by the statutes of the State
of New York, in such case made and provided.
"'Dated April 20, A.D. 1872.

"'(Signed by)

A. M.

GREEN,

and 224 other names, and verified by Green
on the 28th day of May, 1872.
"'County of Cayuga, N. Y
In the matter of the application of the
taxpayers of the Town of Mentz,
Cayuga County, N. Y

)

Order of County
Judge.

"'On the petition herein bearing date the 20th day of
April, A.D. 1872, and on motmon of H. V Howland, attorney
for said petitioners, it is ordered that a notice be forthwith
published in the Auburn Daily Advertiser, a newspaper published in the said county of Cayuga, directed to whom it
may concern, and setting forth that on the 8th day of June,
A.D. 1872, at 10 o'clock in the forenoon of that day, I, William E. Hughitt, county judge of the county of Cayuga, in
the State of New York, will proceed to take proof of the facts
set forth in said petition, as to the number of taxpayers
joining in said petition, and as to the amount of taxable
property represented by them, and that such proof will be
taken at the grand jury room, in the court-house in the city
of Auburn, in said county of Cayuga, N. Y
"'Dated this 28th dayof May, in the year of our Lord 1872
"' W E. Huiimrr,
"' Cayuga County Judge.'

RICH v. TWENTZ.
Statement of the Case.

"(Endorsed
' Filed May 28, 1872.)
"(Then follows the usual affidavit of the printers of said
newspaper, showing due publication of the notice of heating.)
"'County of Cayuga.
"'In the matter of the application of
the taxpayers of the town of lentz.

Judgment

"' Upon the filing the petition herein and order made
thereon, with a copy of the notice to take proof of the facts
set forth in said petition, and the affidavit of publication of the
said notice in the manner required by law, and by the order
made in this proceeding as aforesaid, together with the testimony taken therein, and it appearing to the satisfaction of
the court that the whole number of taxpayers in the town of
Mentz, Cayuga County and State of New York, whose names
appear upon the last assessment-roll or tax-list for. the year
1871, is 434, and that of this number 225 have signed the said
petition, being more than one-half of said taxpayers, and it
further appearing that the total valuation of the taxable property of 'the said town of .Mentz upon the said assessment-roll
or tax-list, is five hundred and forty thousand six hundred and
forty-five dollars, and that the valuation of the property of
the petitioners as represented upon the said roll or tax-list is
$312,350, being thirty-one thousand and twenty-eight dollars
in excess of one-half of the total valuation of the taxable property of said town of Mentz.
"'Now on motion of H. V Howland, attorney for said petitioners, it is adjudged, dcreed and determined that the said
petitioners do represent a majority of the taxpayers of said
town of Mentz as shown by the last preceding tax-list or assessment-roll, that is to say, the said tax-list or assessment-roll for
the year 1871, and do represent a majority of the taxable
property upon said tax-list or assessment-roll.
"' And it is hereby ordered, that William A. Halsey, E. B.
Somers and J TI. Wethey, three freeholders, residents and
taxpayers within the .corporate limits of the said, town of
Mentz be, and they hereby are appointed commissioners for

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

the period of five years next ensuing, and until others are
appointed by a county judge of this county, or other competent authority, to cause or execute in due form of law, with all
reasonable dispatch, bonds of the said town of Mentz, of the
amount of $100 each, to the amount of thirty thousand dollars, and to issue or sell the same, or dispose of the same and
invest the same or the proceeds thereof in, and to subscrib8 n
the name of the said town of Mentz to, the stock of "the Cayuga Northern Railroad Company" to the amount of $30,000,
and that the said commissioners and each of them shall have
all the powers and be subject to the same duties and liabilities,
imposed and prescribed in and. by the act of the legislature of
the State of New York entitled. "An act to amend an act to
authorize the formation of railroad companies and to regulate
the same," passed April 2, 1850, (and all other acts pertaining
to that subject,) "so as to permit municipal corporations to aid
in the construction of railroads," passed May 18, 1869, and the
several acts amendatory thereof and supplementary thereto.
"' And it is further adjudged and ordered, that notice of the
final determination herein as aforesaid, be forthwith published
in the Auburn Daily Advertiser, a newspaper published in the
said county of Cayuga, once in each week for three weeks.
"'Dated July 17, 1872.
W E. HUGHITI,
C"ayuga County Judge.'
'Filed July 17, 1872.')
"(Endorsed
"(Due proofs were made of publication of the foregoing
determination.)
"II. The Cayuga Northern Railroad Company was duly
incorporated under the general statutes- of the State, on the
22d of April, 1872.
"III. The persons named in said adjudication of the county
judge aforesaid, qualified as commissioners under the statute
and subscribed, in behalf of said town of Mentz, for 300
shares of the capital stock of said company, of the par value
of $100 per share, and paid therefor by the issue to said

RICH v. MENTZ.
Statement of the Case.

company of -thirty town of M[entz bonds of $1000 each, in
form as set out in the complaint, with coupons attached in the
usual form, providing for the payment of interest seni-annually,
January and July, principal payable July 15, 1902.
"The coupons were all in the following form
"'$35.00.
"' The town of Mentz, county of Cayuga, will pay the
bearer hereof at the Fourth National Bank of New York, in
the city of New York, on the 15th day of July, 1876, the sum
of thirty-five dollars, for six months" interest then due on bond
No. 1

"'1$35.00.

W A. HALSEY, Commnsswner'

"IV Prior to the commencement of this action the plaintiff
became a purchaser of the five bonds and attached coupons
which are described in the declaration in this action, from one
Deming, who had theretofore purchased the same for cash,
and without notice of any infirmity, the plaintiff being a resident 5itizen of the State of Iowa.
"V Plaintiff produced said five bonds, with twelve coupons,
each $35, cut from each,, in all sixty coupons, which with the
interest to the day of trial amounted to $2836.25.
"VI. That no part of said railroad has ever been built, but
the town 6f Mvfentz raised the money by tax, according to said
statute, and has paid the coupons of the entire issue, which
fell due January 15, 1873 , the town has never paid any other
coupons, dud said commissioners have retained, and now hold,
the usual certificates of stock in the said railroad company,
300 shares, received by them at the time of the delivery of
said bonds to the railroad company
"VIL All the proofs were taken subject to defendant's
objection, that the county judge acquired no jurisdiction under
the original petition, and also that the judgment of the county
judge was insufficient.
"And defendant insisted upon the aforesaid objection, and
prayed for a dismissal of the complaint with costs."

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statemdent of the Case.

The form of bonds, of which plaintiff held five, numbbrejd
21, 22, 23, 24: and 25, with their coupons, was thus set out in
the complaint
$1000.
United States of America,
"State of New York, Town of Mentz,
"County of Cayuga.
"Issued by virtue of an act of, the legislature of the State
of New York, entitled, ' An act to amend an act entitled an act
to authorize the formation of railroad corporations, and to regulate the same, passed April 2, 1850, so as. to permit municipal
corporations to aid in the construction of railroads, passed
May 18, 1869.'
"This act authorizes the town of Mentz, in the county of
Cayuga, to subscribe to the stock of ' The Cayuga, Northern
Railroad Co.,' and to-issue town bonds in payment therefor.
The whole amount of the bonds to be issued in pursuance of
said act is $30,000.
"Know all men by these presents, that we, the undersigned
commisgioners under the above-entitled acts, for the town of
Mentz, -in the county of Cayuga and State of New York, upon
the faith and credit and in behalf of said town, for value received promise to pay to the bearer the sum of one thousand
dollars on the 1st day of July in the year one thousand nine
hundred and two (1902) at the Fourth National Bank of New
York, in the city of New York, with interest at seven per
cent per annum, from and after the 15th day of July, 1872,
payable semi-annually upon the 15th days of July and January
in each year at .the same place, on the presentation and
surrender of the coupons for such interest hereto annexed.
"In witness whereof we have hereunto set our hands and
seals and have caused the coupons hereto annexed to be sigaied
by W A. Halsey, one of our number, this 15th day of July in
the year one thousand eight hundred and seventy-two.
[L. s.]
"E. B. SOMERs,
"W A. HALSEY, [L. S.]
[L. S.]"
"J H. WETHEY.
"No. 21.

RIOH v. MENTZ.
Statement of the Case.

The judges of the court being divided in opinion as to the
sufficiency of the petition, and of the adjudication and judgment of the county judge,-judgment was ordered for the defendant in accordance with the opinion of the circuit judge,
and the following. questions, upon which the division of opinion arose, were certified to this court
"First. Was the petition of certain taxpayers of the .town
of Mentz, which was presented to the county judge of Cayuga
County, in the State of New York, on the 28th day of M ay,
1872, and a copy of -which is set forth in the finding and decision of the court,, sufficient in the form and substance of its
recital, to authorize'the said county judge to take jurisdiction
and proceed to render an adjudication pursuant to chapter 907
of the laws of New Ydrk of 1869, as amended by chapter 925
of the laws of New York of 18712
"Second. Was it essential in order to confer jurisdiction
upon said. county judge, to adjudicate pursuant to section 2 of
chapter 90T of the laws of 1869, as amended by section 2 of
chapter 925 of the laws of 1871, that the petition should state,
among other things, in substance, that the taxpayers petitioning were a majority of taxpayers of thetown of Mentz, who
were taxed or assessed for.property,. not including those taxed
for dogs or highway tax only l
"Third. Was the adjudication of the county judge of Cayuga
County, made on the 17th day of Jully, 1872, a copy of which
is set forth in the findings and decision of the court, sufficient
to authorize the defendant to create and issue its bonds pursuantto chapter 907 of the laws of New York of 1869, as
amended by chapter 925 of the laws of New York of 18712
"Fourth. Was it essential in order to confer authority upon
the defendant to create and issue its bonds under said laws of
1869 and 1871, that the adjudication or judgment of the
county judge should declare, in substance, that the quorum of
taxpayers who desire( that the defendant shoulci create and
issue its bonds, was one exclusive of taxpayers who were assessed or taxed for dogs or highway tax only 2 "
The opinion of the circuit judge is reported in 19 Fed. Rep.
725, and of the districtjudge in 18 Fed. Rep. 52.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

-Mr Jame8 R. Cox f9r plaintiff in error.
-Mr F D

Wrght for defendant in error.

MR.CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
Where a majority of the taxpayers of a town are authorized
by statute to encumber the property of all, in aid of a railroad or other corporation. the record must show that the
statutory authority has been pursued. Cowdrey v Caneadea,
16 Fed. Rep. 532, and cases cited.
Section 1 of chapter 907 of the laws of New York of 1869,
2 Sess. Laws 1869, p. 2303, was as follows "Whenever a
majority of the taxpayers of any municipal corporation in
this State, whose names appear upon the last preceding taxlist or assessment-roll of said corporation as owning or.representing a majority of the taxable property in the corporate
limits of such. corporation, shall make application to the
county judge of the county in which such corporation is
situated, by petition, verified by one of the petitioners, setting
forth that they are such a majority of taxpayers and represent
such a majority of taxable property, and that they desire
that such municipal corporation shall create and issue its
bonds to an amount named in such petition," etc.
That section was so amended by ยง _, c. 925 of the laws of
New York of 1871, 2 Sess. Laws 1871, 2115, as to read
"Whenever a majority of the taxpayers of any municipal
corporation in this State who are taxed or assessed for propertv, not including those taxed for dogs or highway tax oniy,
upon the last preceding assessment-roll or tax-list of said corporation, and who are assessed or taxed, or represent a majority of the taxable property, upon said last assessment-roll
or tax-list, shall make application to the county judge of the
county in which such municipal corporation is situate, by
petition, verified by one of the petitioners, setting forth that
they are such majority of taxpayers, and are taxed or assessed for or represent such majority of taxable property, and

RIGH .v. MENTZ.
Opinion of the Court.

that they desire etc., etc.

The words 'municipal

corporation' when used in this act shall be construed to mean

any city, town or incorporated village in this State, and the
word 'taxpayer' shall mean.any corporation or person assessed or taxed for property either individually or as agent,
trustee, guardian, executor or administrator, or who shall
have been intended to have been thus taxed, and shall have
paid or are liable to pay the tax as hereinbefore provided, or
the owner'of any non-resident lands taxed as such, not including those taxed for dogs or highway tax only, and the
words I tax-list or assessment-rofl' when used m this act shall
mean the tax-list or assessment-roll of said municipal corporation last completed before the first presentation of such petition to the judge."
The bonds in controversy expressly recite that they are
issued under the act of 1869, and the petition and adju4ication
almost literally followed the language of. that act, although
.section 1 of chapter 925 of the laws of 1871 had been .substituted for section 1 of chapter 907 of the act of 1869, before
the proceeding was had. The result is that the petition did
not sufficiently conform to the statute of 1871. to call for the
exercise of judicial judgment on the part of the county judge,
and the adjudication was equally defective, The act of 187.1
defined the class of persons who were authorized-to petition;
as a majbrity of the'taxpayers, "who -are taxed or assessed for
property, not including those taxed for dogs or highway tax
only, upon the last preceding assessment-roll or tax-list of said
corporation, and who are assessed or taxed, or represent a
majority of the taxable property, upon said last assessmentroll or tax-list." The statement of the. jurisdictional facts m
the petition required the averment that the petitioners were a
majority of such taxpayers as were defined in the act. This
must appear affirmatively on the face of the petition. The
act expressly provides that the petition shall set forth that the
petitioners are "1s'uck majority of taxpayers, and are" taxed or
assessed .for or represent such majority-of taxable property"
The word "taxpayers" would not exclude those "taxed for
dogs or highway tax only," and the petition must show-that
VOL. cxxxiV- 41

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the petitioners are a majority, exclusive of the latter class.
And this the petition here does not do, nor does the judgment of the county judge. It is provided by the act of 1871,
as it had been by that of 1869, that it shall be the duty of the
county judge, at the time and place named in the notice given
as prescribed, to proceed and take proof as to the allegations
an said petition, and if it shall appear satisfactorily to him that
the petitioners, and such other taxpayers as may then join in
the application, do represent a majority of the taxpayers and
a majority of the taxable property, he shall render judgment
accordingly, which being entered of record in the office of the
clerk of the county, shall have the same force and effect as
other judgments in courts of record in the State, subject to
review by certoram, and it is forcibly argued that the judg
ment of the county judge is not open to collateral attack. But
this assumes that the jurisdiction of the county judge has been
properly invoked, and has no application where that is not the
case. Proof as to the allegations of this petition may have
been taken, but such proof did not necessarily involve an inquiry into whether a part of the petitioning taxpayers were
such because of the payment of highway taxes or taxes on
dogs. and, as we have said, the judgment does not in terms
show that s~ch were not included. So that if the county
judge had been charged with the ascertainment of the jursdictional facts, the proceedings do not show that those facts
were ascertained.
The fourth section-of the act of 1871 contains, among other
things, this provision "On review, persons taxed for dogs
or highway tax only shall not be counted as taxpayers, unless
that claim was made before the county judge." If this means,
as counsel for plaintiff in error insists, that the objection
when urged on review shall not prevail unless it had been
taken before the county judge, it does not weaken but confirms the view that the verified petition must state 'that those
who sign it are not taxpayers on dogs- and for highways
merely The circuit judge, in his opinion in this case, correctly observes
"It is insisted that, because the amended act of 1871

IICH v. MANTZ.
O(pmnon -of -the Court.

defines the term 'taxpayer,' 'when used in this act,' to mean
-such taxpayers as are not assessed for dogs or highway tax
only, it is not necessary to comply with the explicit language
of the act as to the form and substance of the petition. The
petition is the basis and groundwork of the whole bonding
proceeding. When the amended act was passed many of
these proceedings had been set aside by the courts of this
State because of defects of form in the petition, and it was
the well-settled law of the state courts that, any such defect
was jurisdictional, and rendered the whole proceeding futile.
Speaking of the act of 1869, the Court of Appeals said in
Peaple v Smit , 45 N. Y 712 ' The authority conferred by
the act must be exercised in strict conformity to, and -by a
rigid compliance with, the letter and spirit of the statute.'
The first section of the amended act provides, in language as
explicit as could be employed, that the petition, verified by
one of the petitioners, shall set forth that the petitioners are
a niajority of taxpayers of the -town who are -taxed or
assessed for property, ' not including those taxed for dogs or
highway tai only' It subsequently provides that the word
' taxpayer,' 'when used in this. act,' shall mean 'any corporation or person assessed or taxed for property, .,
not
including those taxed for dogs or highway tax only' *Section
2 makes it the duty of the county judge ' to proceed and take
proof as to the said allegations in the petition; ' and if he finds
that the requisite majority of taxpayers tave consented, he
shall so adjudge. If there were no express -provision reqmring it to appear in the petition that the taxpayers who apply
are a majority of the designated class, the petition would
doubtless be sufficient if it alleged that they were a majority
of the taxpayers'of the town, and m this view, there was no
need of amending the act of 1869 in this behalf. If the argument for the plaintiff is sound -this explicit provision is meabingless. It is not to be assumed that the legislature did not
mean anything by the language which they so carefully
employed. It is not difficult to apprehend what the legislature
meant by defining the word 'taxpayer.' It occurs several
times in the act, It was defined for convenience, in order to

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

avoid repetition of description whenever the word was used in
the act, and in order that there should be no room for doubt
what kind of a taxpayer was meant whenever the word was
used."
These views are in accordance with repeated adjudications
of the Court of Appeals of the State of New York in construing this statute, and upon questions of this chaxacter, when
arising as here, the decisions of the lnghest judicial tribunal
of a State are entitled to great and ordinarily decisive weight.
AMeniwether v Auhlenberg County Court, 120 U. S. 354, 357,
Claiborne County v Brooks, 111 U. S. 400, 410. In Town of
Mentz v Cook, 108 N. Y 504, 509, the court says "The
petition was presented after the amendment of 1871 to the act
of 1869, and was defective in not averring that the petitioners
were a majority of the taxpayers of the town of Mentz, excluding those taxed for dogs or -highway tax only
The fatal
character of the defect has been so adjudged m this court as
to end further discussion.
Green v Smith, 55 N. Y 135,
Town of Wellsboro v N Y Central &c. Railroad-Co., 76
N. Y 182, fetzger v Atti a & Arcade Railroad,79 N. Y 171.
Our attention has heretofore been drawn (Hills v Peekskill
Savings Bank, 101 -W. Y 490) to the definition of the word
' taxpayers,' given in section 1 of the act of 1871, and to the
fact that such definition and its effect had never been directly
passed upon by this court. The argument advanced is that
the word 'taxpayers,' as used in the act, is declared to mean
taxpayers exclusive of those taxed for dogs or highway tax
only, and that it is illogical to deny to the word, when used in
a petition under the act, the meaning ascribed to it by the act
itself. The suggestion is by no means conclusive, and admits
of a satisfactory answer. The definition was given to avoid
useless repetition, and is confined to its use m the act itself.
The petition is required to be verified, and to show on its face
fhe consent of the requisite majority, and is not satisfied by
an ambiguous oath, true in one sense and not true in another."
As on the face of these proceedings there was an entire
want of power to issue the bonds, no reference to the doctrine
of estoppel need be made. We answer the first and third

