OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

instituted by Kales in his individual capacity, and as to how far
the validity of the decree of foreclosure and sale was affected by
the very unusual fact that the same person was both plaantiff
and defendant in that suit. Perktnsv Se -1psam, 11 R. 1. 270,
'cElhanon v. XJJcElhanon, 63 Illinois, 457, Hoag v -Hoag, 55
N. H. 172. But as these questions were not considered by
the court below, and as their correct determination can be best
made when all the facts are disclosed, we express at this time
no opinion upon them, and place our decision upon .the ground
that the Supreme Court of the Territory erred in holding that
the complaint failed to show that the pl~hntiff was entitled to
relief from a court of equity The defendants should be required to meet the case upon its merits.
T['e decree ss reversed '?wth directions that the demurrerto the
complaznt be overruled,andforfurther_proceedings cons istent wzth ths opznon.
FIELD, J - I concur in the judgment of this court for the
reasons stated, but I wish to add that in my opinion the judgment recovered by Kales against himself as administrator is an
absolute nullity

In re WIGHT, Petitioner.'
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAfN.
No. 1521. Argued and submitted January 10, 1890. - Decided March 3, 1890.

When it is found by a Circuft Court of the United States that the clerk has
failed to put in the record an order which was made at the next preceding term of the court, remanding a case to the District Court, the Circuit
Court may direct such an order to be entered nunc pro tune.
.The writ of habeascoripus cannot be used as a writ of error to inquire into
all the errors committed by the court below. ..
An indictment against a letter carrier of the United States Postal Service,
I The docket title of this case is Wight v. Nicholson, Superintendent of the
Detroit House of Correction.

WIGHT, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.
chnarging that " he did wrongfully secrete and embezzle a letter which
came into his possession in the regular course of his official duties, and
which was intended- to be carried by a letter carrier, which letter then
and there contained five pecuniary obligations and securities of the
government of the United States," is a sufficient charge that the letter
embezzled was intended to be carried by a letter carrier of the United
States.
In an indictment against a letter carrier for the embezzlement of a letter received by him in his official character to carry and deliver, it is not necessary to aver that "the letter has not been delivered" if an embezzlement
of it is charged.
In a proceeding for a habeas copus to release from confinement a letter
carrier charged with embezzling letters delivered to him for carriage,
this court will not inquire into the motives with which the letter was put
into the mail, even though the object was to detect or entrap the party
into criminal practices.

was a petition for a writ of habeas cowus. The writ
was refused in the court below, and the petitioner appealed.
The case is stated in the opinion.
THIS

. 'r lelnj M. Du&ffield for appellant;
.Mr Solicdor Genteral, for appellees, submitted on his brief,
Wlns,
which adopted verbatim the brief by MX, Charles T T'
the attorney for the United States in the court, below
Ta. JUSTiCE, MILER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a judgment -of.the Circuit Court
for the Eastern District of Michigan discharging a writ of
Wleas corpus on a hearing before that court. By this writ
the appellant here, Charles H. Wight, sought to be relieved
from imprisonment in the Detroit House of Correction, under
sentence .of the District Court of the- United States for the
Eastern District of Michigan. The petitioner was indicted in
that court upon-the charge that on-the 28th day of June, 1888,
while he was employed ilf one of.the departments of the postal
service of'the United States, to wit, as superintendent of letter
carriers in the post-office at Detroit, he wrongfully and unlawfully secreted and embezzled certain letters which came into
his possession in the -regular course of his official duty, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

which were intended- to be carried by a letter carrier, and
which letters contained obligations and securities of the United
States of pecuniary value, called treasury notes. There were
six other counts for a similar offence.
Upon the trial in the District Court, the jury found a verdict
of guilty, against petitioner. He thereupon made a motion in
that court for a new trial, and likewise a motion in arrest of
judgment. Pending the argument of these motions, the District Court made an order transferring the cause to the Circuit
Court for said district, which order is in the following language
"It is nbw by the court ordered that this case be certified
and remitted to the next Circuit Court of the United States
for this district."
These motions were heard in the Circuit Court on the. 11th
day of March, 1889, before Judges-Howell E. Jackson, Circuit
Judge, and Henry B. -Brown, District Judge, and on the 12th
day of M[arch, 1889, the following okder was entered of
record
"United States of America
V.

Charles Wight.
"In this cause the defendant's motion to set aside verdibt
and in arrest of judgment, after mature deliberation thereon,
are by the court here now denied."
And on the same day, at the District Court room in the city
of Detroit, that court made the following, entry
The United States
Charles

Convicted on indictment for embezzling
letters, etc.

"The court now deliver judgment on the motions to- set
aside the verdict rendered' by the jury herein and for a new
trial, heretofore argued and submitted, and, thereupon, it is
ordered that said motions be, and the same are hereby, denied,
and that the order heretofore made herein certifying this cause
to the Circuit Court of the United States for this district be.

WIGHT, Petitioner.
Opnon of the Court.

and the same is hereby, V catcd as having been improvidently
made.
"And the said defendant being now placed at the bar of
the court for sentence, thereupon the court do now sentence
him, the said Charles Wight, to be imprisoned and kept at
hard labor, at and in the Detroit House, of Correction, m the
city of Detroit, Wayne County, Michigan, for the term of two
years from and including this day, and to stand committed
until the terms of this sentence are -complied with."
On the 25th of August, thereafter, an application was made
to Mr. Justice Harlan of this, court, who was the justice assigned at that time to the sixth circuit, for a writ of. htabeas
corpus, to deliver the petitioner, Wight, from restraint in the
Detroit House of Correction, by Joseph Nicholson, its superintendent. On this application Justice Harlan made an order
that a rule issue from the Circuit Court against the marshal of
the United States for the Eastern District of -.Michigan and
the superintendent of the-Detroit House of Correction, returnable before that court Within three- days after service of process, to show cause why the haleezs corpss should not issue as
prayed in the petition. To this rule Nicholson made a return,
in which he said that he held the said Wight in restraint of
his liberty as a prisoner in the Detroit House of Correction,
by virtue of the judgment and sentence of the District Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Michigan,
rendered on-the 12th day of March, 1'889, a copy.of which -he
set out: To this return, Wight, by his counsel, made exception by way of answer, in which he said that the District
Court for the Eastern District of Michigan ihad not, at the
time of the sentence referred to in said return, any' jurisdiction
over him, the said Wight, or any authority to pass sentence
against him, because the said cause in which it pretended to
pass sentence upon him on the 12th of March, 1889, had
been duly certified and remitted from said District Court into
the Circuit Court of the UnitedSaes in said district, and the
transcript thereof duly filed,.and that up to the date of said
alleged sentence, to wit, the 12th day of March, 1889, was
and at the datehereof is still pending in the. Circuit Court of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the United States, as -more fully and at length alleged and
shown by the certified copies of the proceedings in said cause,
in the petition filed in this matter.
Petitioner Wight also averred that the District Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Michigan never
had or obtained jurisdiction over him for the following reasons That the indictment on which petitioner was arraigned
and tried in said court did. not charge the commission of any
offence over which said court had jurisdiction, and because the
evidence in the case did not establish any offence against the
laws of the United States, of which said District Court had
jurisdiction.
Upon examination of the record of the Circuit Court in the
case at this stage of the proceeding on the writ of habeas cor
pus, it was ascertained that no order remanding the case from
the Circuit Court to the District Court had been entered on
th- journals of the former court, the last order on the subject
being the one which we have .already recited, overruling the
motion for a new trial and the motion in arrest of judgment.
Thereupon the judges of the Circuit Court caused the following order to be-made.
"United States of America
Charles Wight.
"The defendant, being personally present in court, as well
as by his counsel, Henry M. Duffield, Esq., and the court having its attention called to its records made and entered in
the above-entitlqd cause on the 12th day of March, A.D. 1889,
by the return of Josep H. Nicholson, superintendent of the
Detroit House of Correction, to the writ of habeas corpus
heretofore allowed by this-court on the petition of the abovenamed Charles Wight,-and upon wspection of -said records, so
made and entered as afbresaid, it satisfactorily appears to the
court that the same is not a full. and _qorkect record of- the
erder which was in fact made-'by this. court on the 12th day
of 'March aforesaid, in this, that it fails to show the order
of this court -which was duly made on the said 12th day of

WIGHT, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

March, remitting said cause out of this court into the District
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Michigan, therefore, after hearing the said Charles Wight, by his
counsel, in opposition thereto, this, court, upon its own motion,
based upon its recollection of the facts of the making of said
order remitting said cause as aforesaid into said District
Court, now orders and directs that the same be entered now as
of the said twelfth day of March, one thousand eight hundred
and eighty-nine, according to the facts thereof, which are as
follows
"At a session of the Circuit Court of the United States for
the sixth circuit and eastern district of Michigan, continued
and held, pursuant to adjournment, at the district cdurt room,
in the city of Detroit, on the twelfth day of March, in the
year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighty-nine.
"Present The Hon. Howell E. Jackson, Circuit Judge.; the
Hon. Henry B. Brown, District Judge.
"United States of America
Charles Wight.
"The defendant being personally present in court, as well
as by his counsel, Henry M. Duffield, Esq., saiA1 United States
being represented by C. P Black, United States attorney, and
Charles T. Wilkins, assistant United States attorney, and the
said United States attorney objecting to the consideration of
said cause on the part of this court for the reason that tliere,
was no authority m law- for the District Court -to remit said
cause to this court after verdict had in said District Court,
therefote the court, uppn its ohvn motion, hereby remits said
cause back into the said I)igtrict Court for the Eastern District of Michigan for such action as said District Court shall
see fit to .takd."
Thereupon the Circuit Court on.the 30th day of September,
1889, on the same day that it had ordered the nune pro tunc
entry if the order remianding the cause to the District Court,
being of the opinion that this order cured the defect of the
record; wlich showed the case to be still pending in the Circuit

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Court and being further of opimon, as appears from their judgment in the matter, that the case had never been lawfully removed from the District into the Circuit Court, and that therefore said District Court had always retained jurisdiction of
the case, made an order discharging the writ of habeas corpus.
It is mainly upon these orders about the several removals
of the case from one court into the other that appellant relies
to show that the District Court at the time of pronouncing its
judgment of imprisonment against appellant had no jurisdiction of the case. But there is also a further point made, that
the letters which the appellant embezzled were never put into
the mail with intent that they should be carried, within the
meaning of the statute.
Of course if the judge of the District Court is right in the
opinion expressed by him in the orders which he made, that
he had no power after the verdict in the District Court to
transfer it to the Circuit Court, then the case had really never
been withdrawn from the jurisdiction of the District Court,
and the question arsing upon the absence of any record in
the Circuit Court of an order remanding it back to the District Court is of no consequence, because all that-was done in
the Circuit Court, in that view, was without jurisdiction, and
the case, never was lawfully in that court, and the District
Court had the right to make the order, which it did make,
setting aside its former order transferring the case to the
Circuit Court. In this view of the subject, the case having
always been really under the jurisdiction and control of the
District Court, its judgment sentencing the prisoner on the
verdict-was within its power, and is not examinable on this
writ of habeas coipus.
But we are not satisfied that this view of the powers of
the two courts is a sound-one. While-we do not decide the
question now, because it is not. necessary, (as our judgment is
the same in either event,) we shall, for the. purposes of the
present case, treat it as if the order transferring the case from
the District Court into the Circuit Court was a valid order,
so that it- could only be remanded from the Circuit Court into
the Distript Court by some order or action of the former.

WIGIHT, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

No such order was found upon the records of the Circuit
Court at the time sentence was imposed upon the prisoner in
the District Court, if no such order had been. made previous
-to that judgment, the case was-still pending in the Circuit
Court, and the District Court had no authority to pass the
sentence it did upon the prisoner. This view of the subject
calls upon us to inquire whether the nuno yro tune order .of
September 30 was a valid order, and one within the power of
the Circuit Court to make.
Our first impression was that whatever might be the
powers of the courts in this regard over their records during,
the term in which the transactions are supposed to have'
occurred, the record of which, or failure to make any record
of which, is the subject of amendment, yet when it was
attempted to do this after an adjournment and at a subse-,
quent term of the court, the powers :of the court in making
such changes in the records of the proceedings were limited to
those in which there remained written niemoranda of some
kind in the case, and among the files ,of the court, by which
the record could be amended, if erroneous, or the proper entry
could be supplied, if one had leen omitted. And e~pecially
that in criminal procedure this powe: to make such entries, at
a subsequent term of the court, of what had transpired at a
former term, as would establish the authority of the court to
pass a sentence of fi~ie or imprisonment, either did not. exist
at all, or, if it did, was limited to cases in which some written
evidence of what was done remained.in the papers connected"
with the case.
We are satisfied, however, upon an examination of the authorities, that this restriction upon the power of the court
does not exist. Mr. Bishop, in his first volume on Criminal
Proceedings, section 1160, states the doctrine in the following
terms
"When the term of the court has closed, it is too -late -to
undo, at a subsequent term, what was done at the former term,
A judgment of the court, for instance, cannot then be opened,
and modified or set aside. N~either, it has been held, can the
clerk, at a subsequent .term, make an entry of, what truly

OCTOBER

TERM, 1889.

Opinion of the Court.

transpired at the preceding term. But this refers to the
power of the clerk, proceeding of his own motion. The court
may order nunopro tune entries, as they are called, made to
supply some omission in the entry of what was done at the
preceding term, yet this is a power the extent of which is
limited, and not easily defined. In general, mere clerical errors may be amended in this way So of the mistake of the
clerk in the name of the judge before whom the indictment
was found."
The present case comes within the clause of this section
which declares the power of the court to make nUnc pro tune
entries to supply some omission in the record of what was
done at the time of the proceedings. An extensive list of
authorities is cited in the foot-note of Mr. Bishop, and among
those which support the power of the court to make a record
of some matter which was done at a former term, of which
the clerk had made -no entry, the following cases directly
.affirm that proposition

Galloway, Admznutrator v Me-Yee

then, 5 Iredell (Law), 12, Hyde v Curling,40 Missouri, 374,
State v Clark, 18 Missouri, 432, Telson v Barker, 3 McLean,
379, Bilansky v The State of .Minnesota, 3 Minnesota, 427.
The opinion of the court in this latter case contains a somewhat full reference to the history of this subject, as it is found
in the reports. of the English cases, and in Blackstone's Commentaries, vol. 3, p. 408, the result of which is to show that
at an early day the English courts exercised this power so
recklessly, when the pleadings were all ore tenus, and great
liberality was necessarily allowed in amendments, that the
abuse was corrected by the king, who made the declaration
that "although we have granted to our justices to make record
of pleas pleaded befbre them, yet we will not that their own
records shall be a warranty for their own wrong, nor that they
may rase their rolls, nor amend them, nor record them contrary to their original entolment." This, Blackstone declares,
meant only that the justices should not by their own private
rasure change a record already made up, or alter the truth to
any sinister purpose.
In the Minesota case, the plaintiff in error had been con-

WIGHT, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

victed of the crime of murder, and after trial and verdict, and
after the case had been carried to the Supreme Court of the
State, the record of the proceedings on the trial was amended
so as to show affirmatively that each juror was sworn as, prescribed by law; that they were put m charge of the officer to
keep them as prescribed by law, and that they were polled
at the request of defendant on their coming in with their verdict, matters which, it seems, had been omitted m the record
of the judgment. The Supreme Court in that case, as we
think, stated with force and precision the true rule on this
subject. They said "While we should go as far as any court
in reprobating a rule to place the proceedings of a court almost
entirely at the mercy of the subordinate officials thereof, we
should be scrupulously careful in adopting any rule which
would tend to destroy the sanctity or lessen the verity of the
records. And while we admit the power to amend a record
after the term has passed in which the record was made up,
we deprecate the exercise of the power m any case where
there was the least room for doubt about the facts upon which
the amendment was sought to be made.
But when
the facts stand undisputed, and the. objection is based upon'the
technical point alone that the term is passed at which the
record was made up, it would be doing violence to the spirit
which pervades the administration of justice in the present
age to sustain it. It is our opinion that this power, of necessity, exists in the District Court, and that its exercise must m
a great measure be governed by the facts of each case."
The case m 5 Iredell, although a civil suit, established the
doctrine that a court has a right to amend the records of any
preceding term by inserting what had been omitted either by
the act of the court or clerk, and that' when so amended it
stands as if it had never been defective,-or as if the entries bad
been made at the proper time.
T~e case of Hyde v Curling, 10 Missouri, 227, which was
also a civil suit, and seems to have been very well considered,
is thus stated m the syllabus of the report "A court has
power -to order entries of proceedings had 'by the court at a
previous term to be made nunc pro tunc, but where the, court
VOL. c~xxiv-O

OCTOBER TERM, 1889..
Opinion of the Court.

has omitted to make an order which it might or ought to have
made, it cannot at a subsequent term be made nunc pro tun."
In the case in 18 Missouri, of State v. Clark, it appeared that
the prisoner had been tried on an indictment which was not
signed at the time of the trial by the foreman as a true bill
and that the clerk had not marked the time of filing the
same, on the indictment. It was held, on writ of error to
the Supreme Court, that the court had a right, on motion at
a subsequent term, to amend its record by a statement of these
facts, not only by the endorsement upon the bill, but by a
regular entry on the journal, that "the grand jury returned
into court the following true bills of indictment," (naming the
The court
one under which the defendant was convicted).
said that, if these acts had taken place, the failure of thq clerk
to make proper and formal entries on the records of the court
might have been supplied or corrected by having such entries
made nune pro tune.
In NYelson v. Barker, 3 IMcLean, 379, Mr. Justice McLean
observed, in regard to an amendment of a declaration under
a plea of misnomer, that it was objected to on the ground that
there was nothing to amend by, to which he replied that at
common law the court could only give leave to amend when
there was something to amend by, and anciently amendments
were i'equired to be made at the term at which the error
occurred, but now an amendment may be made at any time
before judgment, and in some cases after judgment, and he
refers to the 32d section of the Judiciary Act of 1789.
This, which has been commonly called the statute of jeofails and amendments of the Unitvd States, may be found in
section 954, Revised Statutes, adfd is as liberal in the powers
which it confers on the courts tb make amendments as any of
those enacted in more modern times. We are forced to the
conclusion that the action of the Circuit Court in making the
order for a nunopro tuna record, which showed that the case
had been remanded from that court to the District Court prior
to the time when the sentence was passed upon the prisoner,
was a legitimate .exercise of power.
With regard to the proposition which denies that the.Indict-

WIGHT, Petitioner.
Opimon of the Court.

ment in the District Court and the evidence by winch it is
sustained conferred jurisdiction on that court, we do not think
it. needs much comment. The grand jurors charged m the
first count of this indictment that "the said Wight, who was
then and there -a person employed in one of the departments
of the postal service of the United States, to -wit, employed as
an assistant to the superintendent of letter carriers in the postoffice at Detroit aforesaid, unlawfully and wrongfully did secrete and embezzle a letter which came into his possession in
the regular course of his official duties, and which was intended to be carried by a letter carrier, which letter then and
there contained five pecuniary obligations and securities of
the government of the United States," and were the property
of one Angus X. Smith, and with the letter were then and
there enclosed in an envelope addressed to " Oscar Singleton,
Montevideo, dook Co., Mich." A similar statement is in
effect made in all the other counts.
The law under which the prisoner was indicted is section.
5467 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, the language of which, applicable to the case, is as follows
"Any person employed in. aiydepartment of the postal
service who shall secrete or embezzle or destroy any letter,
packet, bag, or mail of letters intrusted to him, or which shall
cone into his possession, and which was intended to be conveyed by mail, or carried' or delivered by any-mail-carrier,
mail-messenger, route-agent, .letter-carrier, or other person
employed in any department of the postal service, or forwarded through or delivered from any post-office or branch
post-office established by authority of the Postmaster General,
and which shall contain any. note, bond, draft, check, warrant,
revenue stamp, postage-stamp, stamped envelope, postal-card,
money-order, certificate of stock, or other pecuniary obligation
any such person who
or security of the Government,
shall steal or take any of the things aforesaid out of any letter, packet, bag, or mail of letters which shall have ceme into
his possession, either in the regular course of his official duties
or in any other manner whatever, and provided the same shall
not have been delivered to the party to whom it is directed,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

shall be punishable by imprisonment at hard labor for not
less than one year nor more than five years."
The argument of counsel assumes that in this proceeding, by
writ of aeas corpus, we can inquire into-and correct nearly
all errors which may have been committed by the District
Court in the control of the case originally This has been so
often denied by this court, and the proposition is so clear, that
in a writ of habeas corp)us nothing can be inquired into but the
jurisdiction of the court, that it is unnecessary to pursue the
entire line of argument of counsel for appellant. Cuddy,
Peftdoner,131 U S. 280. We are of opinion, notwithstanding the allegation of counsel that there was no jurisdiction
because the indictment did not charge that the letter embezzled
was intended to be carried by a letter carrier, that it so alleged
m the exact terms of the statute just cited, and is therefore
sufficient.
With regard to the proposition "that the failure to allege
in some of these indictments that the letter had not been delivered to the party to whom it is directed renders the whole
proceeding void," we think it is unsound. While the purpose
for which this clause was inserted'in the act is not very clear,
it was probably intended to repel the idea that the stealing or
embezzling of such a letter after it had been carried through
the mail or delivered by the letter carrier to its owner and
its purpose served, did not render the party guilty under this
statute. At all events, the fact of its delivery being a matter
of defence, when it was proved that the party in the course of
his employment had embezzled the letter ana stolen the money,
it will be presumed that the defendant made the most he
could of that defence on the trial. We are not of opinion that
it is necessary for us to examine into the question raised on
the evidence at the trial as to whether the securities were put
into the letter and that into the mail, as a mere decoy or not.
The question whether it was intended to be conveyed by the
mail or by the letter carrier was a question of fact to be
ascertained by the jury, and -in a case like this, where the
'party has been convicted of embezzling a letter and valuable
property in a letter passing through the regular course of the

WIGHT, Petitioner.
Dissenting Opinion. Fuller,, C. J., Harlan, J.

mail and the hands of the letter carrier, where the indictment
is a good one, and where the party has been found guilty and
sentenced, we are not disposed to mquire into the motives for
which the letter was put into the mails, even though the
object was to detect or entrap the party in his criminal practices. For these reasons the judgment of the Circuit Court
Affirme.
is
THE CHIEF JUSTICE
LAN)

(with whom concurred lMm.

JUSTICE

HLA-

dissenting.

I am compelled to withhold my assent to the conclusion
reached by the court in this case. In my judgment the District Court had power after the. verdict to transfer the cause
to the Circuit Court, and-having done so, it required an order
remitting the cause from the Circuit Court to the District
Court, before the latter court could pronounce a lawful sentence. The petitioner w~s sentenced by the District Couro
which, as the record then stood, had no jurisdiction, and was
committed accordingly, and while undergoing imprisonment
under that sentence sued out the writ of habeas corpus. The
Circuit Court then entered an order nunc.pro tune as of the
previous term, remitting the cause into the District Court,
basing its action upon "its recollection of the facts of the
making of said order,' The record before us does not disclose the existence of any minutes of the clerk or notes of the
judge that the entry of such an order had been -directed, -or of
any other official evidence to that effect, and I do not understand it to be contended that there was any such. Granting
that, as has been said, the judge during the term is a living
record, and may alter and supply from memory any order,
udginent or decree which -has been pronounced, and this,
because he is presumed to retain his own action in his recollection, yet after the term has elapsed, the exercise or such a
power to the extent of supplying an order upon which jurisdiction depends, in the absence of any entry, mmlite or memorandum to proceed by, or of any statutory provision expressly
allowing it, ought noz to be conceded in criminal cases. The
statute of-amendments and jeofails has no application.

