OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

description by which he had received the valuable rights
referred to.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
Ajf$rmed.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER did not take any part in the decision
of this case.

HILL v. MEMPHIS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN

DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 68. Argued November 6, 1889.-Decided March 10, 1890.

A power conferred by statute on a municipal corporation to subscribe for
stock in a railway corporation does not include the power to create a
debt, and to issue negotiable bonds representing it, in order to pay for
that subscription and this doctrine prevails in Missouri.
All grants of power to a municipal corporation to subscribe for stock in
railways are to be construed strictly and not to be extended beyond the
term of the statute.
The provisions in the general railroad law of Missouri, which went into
.effect June 1, 1866, respecting the loan of municipal credit to a railroad
company, and of the act of the State of March 24,1868, respecting the fundmg of the debts of municipalities,. are to be construed in subordination
to the provision of the constitution of the State then in force, prohibiting the legislature from authorizing any. town to loan its credit to miy
corporation, except with the assent of two-thirds of the qualified voters,
at a regular or special election.

Tins was an action against the City of Memphis, a municipal corporation of Missouri, alleged to have been known and
designated on the first day of March, 1871, as the town of
Memphis, and styled the Inhabitants of the Town of Memphis. It was brought to recover the amount of one hundred
and thirty-eight coupons, each for eighty dollars, detiiched
from certain railroad bonds purporting to have been issued by
that town. These bonds, except in their number, were in the
following form

HILL v. HENTHIS.
Statement of the Case.

Niumber 4.

JTU

D STATES OF AxERICA.

Dollars 1000.

"Eight per cent railroad bond. Town of Memphis, county of
Scotland. Twenty years.
"Know all men by these presents .that the town of Memphis, in the county of Scotland, in the State of Missouri,
acknowledges itself indebted to the Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska Railway Company, a corporation existing under and
by virtue of, the laws of the States of Missouri and Iowa,
formed by a consolidation of the Alexandria and Nebraska
City Railroad Company (formerly Alexandria and Bloomfield
Railroad Company); of the State of" Missouri, and the Iowa
Southern Railway Company, of the State of Iowa, in the sum
of one thousand dollars, which sum the said town hereby
promises to pay to the said Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska Railway Company, or bearer, at the Farmers' Loan ant Trust
Company in New York, on the first day of March, A.D. 1891,
with interest thereon from the first day of March, 1871, at the
rate of eight per cent per annum, which interest shall be payable annually, in the city of New York, on the first day of
March in each year, as the same shall become due, on the presentation of the coupons hereto annexed. This bond being
issued under and pilrsuant to an order of the board of trustees
of the town of Memphis, for subscription to the stock of the
Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska Railway Company, as authorized
by an act of the general assembly of the State of Missouri,
entitled "An act to incorporate the Alexandria and Bloomfield
Railroad Company, approved February 9, 185.' In testimony
whereof the said town of Memphis has executed this bond by
the chairman of the board of trustees,,signing his name thereto,
and -theclerk of said board of trustees under the order thereof
-attesting the same and affixing thereto the seal of said board.
Thus done at the town of Memphis, in the county of Scotland,
in the State of Missouri, this first day of March, A.D. 187"1.
"[Seal. Town of Memphis, Scotland County, Missour.]

"H. H. BYNm,

"C

Trustees of -e Town of .AXmpk2z.
f tke~~
man. oBoard.of

"Attest: WiL. rAx L. KA-s, Olerk."

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

The coupons, excepting in their number and dates, were in
the following form.
"Railroad Bond Coupon.

80.

"M r rms, Mo., .Marok 1, 1871.

"The town of Memphis, State of Missouri, will pay to the
bearer on March 1, 1885, at the Farmers' Loan & Trust Company, in New York, eighty dollars, being one year' snerest on
Bond No. 4, for $1000.
"H. H. Bymi-, CMawnan."
The bond, on its face, purported to have been issued on the
1st day of March, 1871, by order of the board of trustees of
the town of Memphis, for subscription. to the stock of the
Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska Railway Company, as authorized by an act of the general assembly of the State of Missouri, entitled--"An act to incorporate the Alexandria and
Bloomfield Railroad Company," approved February 9, 1857.
That act provided that the company should in all things be
subject to the same restrictions, and be entitled to all the privileges, rights and immunities which were granted to the North
Missouri Railroad Company by its act of incorporation, so far
as the same were applicable, as fully and completely as if they
were thereby refnacted. The fourteenth section of this latter
act was as follows:
"SEc. 14. It shall be lawful for the county court of any
county, in which any part -of the route of the said railroad
may be, to subscribe to the stock of said company, and it may
invest its funds in the stock of said company, and issue the
bonds of such county to raise funds to pay the stock -thus subscribed, and. to take proper measures to protect the interest
and credit of the county Such county court may appoint an
agent to represent the county, vote for it, and receive its dividends, and (any) incorporated city, town, or incorporated
company may subscribe to the stock to said railroad company,
and appoint an agent to represent its interests, give its vote,
and receive its demands (dividends), and may take proper steps

HILL v. MEMPHIS.
Statement of the Case.

to guard -and protect the interests in (of) such city, town, or
corporation."
The plaintiff also relied as authority for issuing the bonds,
though not recited in them, upon section 17 of the General
Railroad Law of Missouri, which went into effect August 1,
1866. That section is asfollows "S1.E. 1'(. It shall be lawful
for the county court of any county, the ci.y council of any
city, or the trustees of any incorporated town, to take stock
for such county, city, .or town in, or. loan the credit thereof to,
any railroad duly organized under this or any other law of the
State provded that two-thirds of the qualified voters of guch
county, city, or town, at a regular or special election to be held
therein, shall assent to such subscription." Gen. Stat. Missouri (1866), 338. He also relied upon the act of March 24,
1868, entitled "An act to enable counties, cities and incorporated towns to fund their respective debts," which- is as
follows:
"Be it enacted by t7he General Assembly of the State of Missourt, asfollows SECTION 1. That the various counties of thi
State be, and they are hereby, authorized to fund any and all
debts they .may owe, and for that purpose may issue bonds
bearing interest at not more than ten per centum per annum,
payable semi-annually, with interest coupons attached, and all
counties, cities or towus in this State which have or shall hereafter subscribe for the capital stock of any railroad company
may, in payment of such subscriptions, issue bonds bearing
interest at not more than ten per centum per annum, payable
semi-annually, with interest coupons attached. The bonds
authorized by this act shall be payable not more than twenty
years from date thereof.
"This act to take effect from and after its passage.
"Approved March 24, 1868." Laws of 1868, 46.
Article 11 of the constitution of -Missouri, which went into
effect in 1865, declares that "'the general assembly shall not
authorize any county, city or town to become a stockholder
in, or to loan, its credit to, any company, association or corpo-

OCTOBER TERMVI, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

ration, unless two-thirds of the qualified voters of such county,
city or town, at a regular or special election to be held therefor, shall assent thereto."
The, town of Memphis was incorporated by act of the legislature of Missouri, November 4, 1857, but that act was repealed
on the 31st of December, 1859. An httempt was made to show
that the people of the same area of country, in the following
year, organized themselves into a municipality under the general law of the State, by the name of "The inhabitants of the
town of Memphis," and so continued until 1880, that by its
trustees an election was ordered to determine whether it should
subscribe $30,000 to the stock of the railroad in question, that
such election was accordingly had, that the subscription was
voted by a two-thirds vote, and that m pursuance of it the
stock was subscribed and bonds of the town were issued. The
evidence on these points was very unsatisfactory, but in the
view taken of the waibt of power in the town to issue the bonds,
it becomes immaterial. The- court instructed the jury that on
the face of the record produced before them they must find
for the defendant, as no authority was shown, on the part
either of the town or city of -Memphis,to issue the bonds in
question. The jury accordingly found for the defendant, upon
which judgment was entered, to review which the case was
brought here on writ of error. 23 Fed. Rep. 872.
XMr John I.H Overall and -Mr F T Hughes for plaintiff in
ei.ror.
Mb JZenry .A. Cunnqmngam for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTiCE,

FiELu, after, stating 'the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The act of the legislature of Missouri of February 9, 1857,
to incorporate the Alexandria and Bloomfield Railroad Company, gives no authority to any town of the State to issue
bonds for stock subscribed by it. The fourteenth section,
-which is the one upon which the plaintiff relies, empowers the
county court of ao.county in whiqh any part of the route of a

HILL v. MEMIPHIS.
Opinion- of the Court.

railroad may lie to subscribe to stock of the company, to
invest its funds in that" stock, to issue the bonds of the
county to raise.the funds to pay for the stock thus subscribed,
to take proper. steps to protect the interest and credit of the
county and to appoint an agent to represent the county and
receive its dividends. The same section also empowers any
incorporated city or town to subscribe for stock of such railroad
and to appoint an agent to represent its interest, give its votes
and receive its dividends, and take proper steps to guard and
protect its iiterest. But it does not authorize the town to
issue any 'bonds for the stock thus subscribed. It leaves
the -town to provide for the payment of the stock in the
ordinary way in which debts contracted by a -town are met,
that is, by funds arising from taxation. It is well settled that
the power to subscribe for stock does not of itself include the
power to issue bonds of a town in payment of it. All grants
of power in such cases to subscribe for stock in railways are
to be construed strictly and not to be extended beyond the
terms of the law Whilst a municipal corporation, authorized'
to subscribe for the stock of a railroad company or to incur
any other obligation, may give written evidence of -such sub,
scription or obligation, it is not thereby empowered to issue
negotiable paper for the amount of indebtedness incurred by
the subscription or obligation. Such 'aper in the- hands of
innocent parties for value cannot be enforced without reference
to-any defence on the part of the corporation,.whether existing
at the time or arising subsequently Municipal corporations
are established for purposes of local government, and in the
absence of specific delegation of power cannot engage in any.
undertakings not directed immediately to the accomplishment
of those purposes. Private corporations created for private
purposes may contract debts in connection with their business,
and issue evidences of them in such form as may best suit their
convenience. The inability of municipal corporations to issue
negotiable paper for their indebtedness, however mcurred,
unless autnority for that purpose is expressly given or neces-,
sarily implied for the execution of other express powers, has
been affirmed in repeated decisions of this court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

In Police Jury v Braton, 15 Wall. 566, 571, 572, it was
held that the trustees or representative officers of a parish,
county, or other local jurisidiction in Louisiana, invested with
the usual powers of administration in specific matters, and
the power of levying taxes to defray the necessary expenditures of the jurisdiction, had no implied authority to issue
negotiable securities for the purpose of raising money or funding a previous debt. Whilst the court did not insist that
express authority is in all cases required for municipal bodies
to issue negotiable paper, as such power may be implied from
other express powers, it held that such implications should not
be encouraged or extended beyond the fair inferences to be
gathered from the circumstances of each case. "It is one
thing," said the court,." for county or parish trustees to have
the power to incur obligations for work actually done in behalf
of the county or parish, and to give proper vouchers therefor,
and a totally different thing to have the power of issuing
unimpeachable paper obligations which may be multiplied to
an indefinite extent. If it be once conceded that the trustees
or other local representatives of townships, counties and parishes have the implied power to issue coupon bonds, payable
at a future day, which may be valid and binding obligations in
the hands of innocent purchasers, there will be no end to
the frauds that will be perpetrated."
In .Mayor v Bay, 19 Wall. 468, 475, the power of mumcipal bodies to issue negotiable paper for debts contracted by
it was largely considered, 'and from the nature and the purposes of such municipalities it was held that, they could not
make such paper in the absence of express authorization.
After speaking of municipal corporations as subordinate
branches of the domestic government of a State, instituted for
public purposes only, having none of the peculiar qualities or
characteristics of trading corporations created for purposes of
private gain, except that of acting in a corporate capacity,
the court said "Their powers are prescribed by their charters,
ud those charters provide the means for exercising the
pawers, and the-creation of specific means excludes others.
Indebtedness- may be incurred to a limited extent in carrying

HILL v. MEMPHIS.
Opmion of the Court.

out the objects of the incorporation. Evidences of such indebtedness may be given to the public creditors. But they
must look to and rely on the legitimate mode of raising the
funds for its payment. That mode is taxation." And again,
p. 477 "If in the exercise of their important trusts the
power to borrow money and to issue bonds or other commercial securities is needed, the legislature can easily confer it
under the proper limitations and restramts, and with proper
provisions .for future repayment. Without such authority it
canuot be legally exercised."
T Clailorne County v Brooks, 111 U. S. 400, 406, this
doctrine is reiterated and reaffirmed with emphasis. Said the
court "Our opinion is, that mere political bodies, constituted
as counties are, for the purpose of local policy and admimstration, and having the power of levying taxes to defray all
public charges created, whether they are .or are not formally
invested with corporate capacity, have no power or authority.
to wake and utter commercial paper of any kind, unless such
power is expressly conferred upon them by law, or clearly
implied from some other power expressly given, which cannot
be fairly exercised without it." See also KeZley v XMlai, 127
U. S. 139, Young v C6laendon Townshbp, 132 U. S. 340, 347.
The same doctrine prevails m Missouri. It follows that
there was no authority m the town of Memphis to issue the
bonds from which the coupons m suit are detached, under the
law referred to in the bonds as authorizing them.
N~or can any authority for the issue of the bonds be derived
from section 17 of the General Railroad Law of the State,
which went into effect Tune 1, 1866. Though that section m
terms empowers the trustees of an incorporated town to loan
its credit to any railroad company organized under a law of
the State, and the issue of its bonds to such company may be
considered as a loan of its credit, it must be construed in subordination to the constitution of the State which took effect
the previous year, and prohibits the legislature from authorizing any towfl. to loan its credit, to any corporation unless
two-thirds of the qualified voters of the town, at a regular
or special. election, shall assent thereto. lNo assent was ever

