OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

it to be true, the caveators had no ground upon which to contest the probate of the will. While this instruction is apparently liable to the objection that it gave undue prominence tc
the testimony of a single witness, we are not satisfied, looking
at all the evidence, that the court erred iu-saying to the jury
that if Mrs. Stewart told the truth, the case was for the propounders of the will.
Upon the whole case we do not perceive any ground upon
which to disturb the finding of the jury
The judgment of the Supfreme Court of the Dzstrsct, zn general term, 'whah afirmed the judgment =i special term,
adm-ting the paper sn question to probate and record as
the last will and testament of Levmn -M. Powell, must be
affirmed, and 't is go ordered.

MR. JUSTICE GRAY, not having heard the whole argument,
took no part m the decision.

CHENEY v. LrBBY
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE

UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
"No. 724. Submitted December 4, 1889. -Decided

Marcb 3, 1890.

Time may be made of the essence of a contract, relating to the purchase of
realty, by the express stipulations of the parties; or it may arise, by
implication from the very nature of the property, or the avowed objects
of the seller or the purchaser; and unless its provisions contravene
public -policy, the court should giye effect to them according -tothe real
intention of the parties.
But even when time is made material by express stipulation, the failure of
one of the parties to perform a condition within the particular time
limited will not in every case defeat his right to specific performance, if
the condition be subsequently performed, without unreasonable delay,
and no circumstances have Intervened that would render it unjust or
inequitable to give such relief. The discretion which the court has to
decree specific performance may be controlled, by the conduct of the
party who refuses to perform the contract because of the failure of the
other party to strictly comply with its conditions.

CHE IEY v. LIBBY.
Opinion of the Court.
When a contract for the purchase of land provides that it shall be forfeited
if the vendee falls to pay any instalment of the purchase price at the
time limited, the failure of the latter to make a tender of payment, in
lawful money, ot a particular instalment on the very day it falls due, will
not deprive him of the right to have specific performance, if such
failure was superinduced by the conduct of the vendor, and if the
vendee, without unreasonable delay, tenders payment, in lawful. money,
after the time so limited.
A provision in the contract forbidding its modification or change except
by entry thereon in writing signed by both parties, coupled with a provision that no court should relieve the purchaser from a failure to com-ply strictly and literally with its conditions, has no application when the
apparent cause of the failure to perform such conditions was the conduct
of the vendor.
If the vendor notifies the purchaser that he regards the contract as forfeited, and that he will not receive any money from him, the latter is not
reqmred, as a condition ofChis right to specific performance, to make tender of the purchase price. It is sufficient if he offer in his bill to bring
the money into court.
A. note for the purchase price of land is made payable at a particular time
and at a particular bank. The pay6r is ready at. such time and place to
pay, and offers to pay, but the bank has not received the note for collection; Held,
(1) The bank is not authorized to receive the money for the payee by.
reason simply of the fact that the note is payable there;
(2) The tender of payment is not payment;
(3) A decree of specific performance should not become operative until
the money is brought into court;
(4) The payee is not entitled.to interest unless it appears that the payar,
after the tender, realized interest upon themoney.

IN - .QUITY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

Mr' Adams A. Goodrwh for appellant.
Mr3Samuel P Javisdson for appellee.
Mu. JusTmF

E

u.A

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit to compel-the specific performance by the ampellant,.Oheney, of a.written agreement entered into May.28,
1880. between him and the. appellee, Libby, whereby the
former demised and let to the latter the possession -and use of,
and coritracted, bargained and agreed to sell to. him, two sections of unimproved* land in Gage. Oounty, Nebraska. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

defendant claimed that the contract was forfeited, long before
this suit was brought, by Libby's failure to comply with its
stipulations. Upon that ground, he resists the granting of the
relief asked. The Circuit Court adjudged that the plaintiff
was entitled to a decree.
The question to be determined is, whether there was any
such default Vpon the part of the plaintiff, Libby, as deprived
him of the right to specific performance.
The sum agreed upon for the possession, use, occupancy and
control of the land was $1361.60 yearly, represented in Libby's
notes. and in the taxes, .assessed and to be assessed against the
land. The price for the land was $8960, of which $1600 was
paid at the date of the contract. The balance was to be paid,
"without notice or demand therefor," in annual instalments
at the times specified in promissory notes, of even date with
the contract, winch were executed by Libby to Cheney, at
Tecumseh, Nebraska. The notes were made payable to the
order of Cheney, at the office of Russell & Holmes, private
bankers in that city Eight of the notes represented the balance of the principal debt - each one being for $920- and
were payable respectively in three, four, five, six, seven, eight,
nine and ten years after date. The remaining ten notes
represented the annual interest.
Libby agreed to meet the notes as they respectively matured,
pay the taxes on the land for 1880 and subsequent years, and,
during that year, (the weather permitting,) break two hundred acres, and build on the land a frame barn of sixteen feet
by twenty, and a frame dwelling-house of a story and a half.
Cheney undertook to pay the taxes of 1879 and previous
years, and bound himself to convey the land, in fee simple,
with the ordinary covenants of warranty, (reserving the right
of way that might be demanded for public use for railways
and common roads,) upon the payment by Libby of the several
sums of money aforesaid at the times limited, and the strict
performance of all and singular the cgnditions of the contract.
It was further stipulated between the parties That "time
and punctuality are material and essential ingredients in this
contract,"

CHENEY v. LIBBY.
Opinion of the Court.

That if Libby failed to perform and complete all and each
of the payments, agreements and stipulations in- the agreement mentioned, "strictly and literally," the contract should
become void, in which event all the interests created by the
contract m favor of Libby, or derived from him, should immediately cease and -determine, and revert to and.revest in
Oheney, without any declaration of forfeiture, or re~ntry, and
without any right in Libby of reclamation or compensation
for moneys paid or services performed,
That in case the contract was forfeited, Oheney could take
immediate possession of the land with all the crops, improvements, fixtures, privileges and appurtenances thereon or appertaining thereto, Libby to remain bound for all taxes .then
assessed against the premises, and all instalments of principal
or interest then due on the contract.to be regarded as rent;
*That whenever one-half of the purchase price was paid, with
,all accrued interest and taxes, Cheney should execute a deed,
as provided for in the contract, -and take notes and a mortgage
for the remaining payments to run the unexpired time, and,
That when Libby's right to purchase the land terminated
by reason of non-performance of his covenants, or his failure
to make the payments, or any of them, at the time specified,
he should be deemed to have only the rights of a tenant, and
to hold the land under fhe contract as a lease, subject to the
statute regulating the relation of landlord and .tenant, with
the right in Cheney to enforce the provisions of the contract,
and recover possession of the land, with all the fixtures, privileges, crops and appurtenances thereon as if the same was
held by forcible detainer.
The agreement also contained these stringent provisions
That no court should relieve Libby from a failure to comply
strictly and literally with the contract; that no modification
or change of the contract could be made except by entry
thereon in writing signed by both parties; and that no oversight or omission to take notice of any default by Libby should
be deemed a waiver by Cheney of the right to do so at any
time..
Libby went into possession under the contract. He and

OCTOIER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

those in possession under him had, prior to the commencement
of this suit on the 26th of February, 1887, broken up and cultivated most of the land, and made improvements thereon of
a permanent and substantial character. Nearly all of these
improvements were made prior to the first of January, 1885.
He met all the obligations imposed upon him with respect to
the breaking up of the land and its improvement by the erection thereon of buildings. His evidence, which is uncontradicted, was "We have broken up and cultivated about 1200
acres, built five houses and stable and outbuildings to each
house, made wells to each house, erected two wind-mills,
fenced one whole section with wire and posts and fenced half
of other section with hedge, we have set out some fruit trees
and shrubbery, all to the value of about ten thousand dollars.
all was done under and in pursuance of this contract."
He, also, met promptly all the notes given for principal and
interest maturing prior to 1885. The total amount paid by
him prior to that date, including $1600 paid at the execution
of the contract, was in excess of $5000.
But the defendant insists that there was such default upon
the part of the plaintiff with respect to the notes maturing
May 28, 1885, as worked a forfeiture of the contract, and,
consequently, that specific performance cannot be decreed.
The precise grounds upon which this contention rests, as well
as those upon which the plaintiff relies in support of his claim
for relief, cannot be clearly understood without a careful
scrutiny of all that passed between the parties in reference to
the lands in question.
The plaintiff resided in Iowa, while the defendant resided
at Jerseyville, Illinois. Th6 notes given by the former were
upon blanks furnished by the latter's agent, who caused them
to be made payable in Tecumseh, Nebraska, at the private
bank of Russell & Holmes, through whom the defendant had,
for many years prior to 1880, made collections, and with
whom he had kept an account. The first payment under the
contrsat was made in bank drafts delivered to the defendant's
agent in Tecumseh. All the other notes falling due in 1880
to 1884, inclusive, except the interest note maturing in 1882,

CILETEY v. LIBBY.
Opmion of the Court.

were paid by bank drafts sent to Russell & Holmes, who
placed the proceeds to the- credit of Cheney in their bank.
The checks of the latter upon that bank, on account of those
deposits, were always paid in current funds. 'The draft to
pay the interest note foi . 1882 was also sent to Russell &
Holmes, but as Cheney had not transmitted that note to them,
the draft was forwarded to him. He received it and sent.'the
note to Libby In no single instance prior to 1885 did he
make objection to the particular mode in which Libby provided for the payment of his notes, or intimate his purpose to
demand coin or legal-tender notes in payment. In every instance, except as to the interest note for 1882, the notes were
paid at the banking house of Russell & Holmes, and by drafts
sent to and used by them for that purpose.
But it is quite apparent from the evidence that Cheney, in
1885, indulged the hope that he could bring about a forfeiture
of the contract for non-compliance upon the part of Libby
with its provisions, and that he would, in that or some other
way, get'the land back. It is proper to advert to the circumstances justifying that conclusion.
On the 4th of March, 1885,-all previous mstalments
having been punctually met-Libby offered, in writing, to
pay alt the principal notes mentioned in the contract, as. well
a the interest note due May 28, 188 , if a deed was made
to hbim. To this offer Cheney replied, under date of March.
19, 1885 "Your letter of the 4th has just reached me. I
have no papers with me and cannot attend to the matter as
you request. I expect to go to New Orleans to the ]xposition and to be at home in time to see to it properly If I
am -behind time no harm will come to you." Libby wrote
20, 1885, renewing the offer conagain, under date of'ay
4. Under date of May 23, 1885,
]Xarch
tained in his letter of
- only five days before the notes for 1885 matured, - Cheney
replied "Yours of 20th is received.. I think it probable that
I can do as you suggest, but I will be in Beatrice [the county
seat of Gage County, -where the lands are] between the 1st
and 10th of June on other business, and. will then make
inquiries and see if I can lend the money to good hands, and
will then let you know~more certainly"

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

On the 26th of May, 1885, Libby sent to Russell & Holmes
a draft upon the First :National Bank of Omaha, Nebraska,
made by one Stuart, a private banker doing business at Madison, in the same State, for $1251.20, which was the amount
of Libby's two notes for principal and interest that matured
May 28, 1885. It was sent in payment of those notes, and
was received for that purpose by Russell & Holmes. They
accepted it for the amount of money named in it, and were,
therefore, ready to take up Libby's two notes when presented for payment at their office.
On the 28th of May, 1885, A. W Cross, of the First National Bank of Jerseyville, Illinois, -where
Cheney resided,
-appeared
at the banking-house of Russell & Holmes, and
made a deposit of $5000, all in current funds, and a good
portion of it bn bills of hks own bank. While there he
inquired of Russell & Holmes (without disclosing the reason
for his inquiry) whether they kept a "legal-tender revenue
[reserve], as national banks were required to do." He was
told that they did not, but that a supply of legal-tender was
on hand. About two o'clock of the 1st of June -which, as
May 31 fell on Sunday, was the last day of grace for Libby's
two notes due in 1885, Neb. Stat. c. 4:1, ยง 8 -one of Cheney's
attorneys went into the bank of Russell & Holmes, and asked
if he could be given $5000 in legal-tender notes in exchange
for other currency His request was complied with. At a
later hour of the same day Cheney appeared in the bank,
without having responded to Libby's offer, twice made, to pay
all the notes for the principal debt, and the interest note
maturing in 1885. He came there with checks, drawn by
Cross, to be cashed, and asked as an accoammodation to him
that they be paid in legal-tender notes. He was promptly
accommodated to the extent of $2500. But when he asked
for $2500 more in legal-tender notes, Holmes suspected there
was a scheme to exhaust his bank of legal-tender notes, and
refused to comply with this request. After Russell & Holmes
had thus, by way of accommodation, paid to Cheney and his
attorney seven thousand five hundred dollars in legal-tender
notes -but not until the hour for closing the bank, on that

CHENEY v. LIBBY.
Opinon of the Court.

day, against the public had passed - Libby's two notes were
presented by Cheney, and payment thereof demanded in coin
or legal-tender notes. The bank offered to pay in current
funds, as they had previously done in respect to Libby's notes,
but Cheney declined to take in payment anything except coin
or legal-tender notes. The notes were then placed by him in
the hands of a notary, who was conveniently present, and the
latter presented them for payment, announcing that he would
not receive anything except United States notes or legaltender funds. Payment in such funds was refused by the
bank and the usual protest was made. 'The notary and
Oheney then left the room, the latter saying, before leaving,
that "he would call in the morning." But he did not call
the next or upon any subsequent day
Within fifteen or twenty minutes after Cheney and his
notary left the bank, Holmes, of the firm of Russell & Holmes,
went to the office of the notary to find Cheney and pay the
notes in the funds demanded. But Cheney was not there,
and the notes were in his hands. Inquiry was made at the
principal hotel and at other places, but he could not be found.
Holmes was informed that he had left town.
Libby having been notified of the protest of the notes, notwithstanding he had, in due time, sent a bank draft to Russell
& Holmes to be used in paying them, directed Stuart, the
banker at Madison, N'ebraska, to go immediately to Tecumseh.
The latter arrived there on the 9th of June, and, having
learned what passed between Oheney and Russell & Holmes,
determined to pay off .the notes in such funds as Oheney
demanded. He informed the notary, who had protested the
notes for non-payment, that he was then ready, in behalf of
Libby, to pay them in gold. The latter did not have the
notes, did not.know where Oheney had gone, and said that
the latter "did not want the money, but that he wanted the
land bfck."
Stuart having knowledge of Cheney's letter, m which he
notified Libby of his purpose to visit Beatrice between the 1st
and 10th of June, went to that place in search of Cheney, but
could not find him.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Libby wrote to Cheney, under date of June 12, 1885, informing him that gold was deposited at Russell & Holmes'
office to pay the two notes due May 28, 1885. This letter
was received by Oheney in due course of mail. On the 20th
of June, 1885, the latter enclosed to Libby twelve unpaid
notes, (including the two due May 28, 1885,) saying that the
contract of May 28, 1880, was terminated and ended by
your failure to pay the two notes due --May 28, 1885, and
otherwise to comply with the contract, which is now null and
void." How Libby had "otherwise" failed to meet his obligations under the contract does not appear. Under date of June
23, 1885, Russell & Holmes advised Cheney by letter of the
fact that they were authorized by Libby to pay, and they
were ready to pay, the notes due May 28, including protest
fees, in legal-tender notes or coin. Libby, under date of June
25, 1885, replied to Cheney's letter, saying "I refuse to
accept said notes, excepting the two which were paid, and
have this day sent them to your bankers, Messrs. Russell &
Holmes, of Tecumseh, N{eb., for your use and benefit and subject to your order. I shall make payments as fast as they
become due, and shall require you to execute a conveyance of
the land in accordance with the terms of the contract. It will
be useless for you to send me any of these notes,.except you
send them for payment." Under date of June 29, 1885, Russell & Holmes advised Ghenev that they had received from
Libby his notes, amounting to $6679.20, subject to his,
Oheney's, order. The latter wrote, July 9, 1885, in reply to
Libby's letter of June 25th, that he did not recognize the
notes placed with Russell & Holmes as being subject to his
order.
On the 20th~of August, 1885, Libby, by his attorney, made
a tender to Russell & Holmes of $120 in gold coin as a balance
of one-half of the purchase money and offered to surrender
the contract and execute a mortgage and notes for the balance
of the purchase money, as stipulated in the contract, and demanded a deed, of all which Oheney was notified. The latter
replied, under date of August 22, 1885, that he would not
receive any-money from Libby, and refused to make a deed.
*A,

CHETEY v. LIBBY.
Opinion of the Court.

It further appears that the plaintiff punctually paid into the
bank of Russell & Holmes the amounts of the notes due in 1886
and 1887. The funds remained in that bank and are now
there, subject to Cheney's order, on presenting the notes. Of
these payments he was promptly informed.
Shortly before the commencement of this suit Libby again
offered to Cheney to pay in cash all the unpaid portion of the
principal debt named in the contract, and all ihterest due at
that date. He also renewed his offer to execute a mortgage
on the land to secure all unpaid instalments not due, and demanded a deed. But those offers being declined, the present
suit was brought.
The peculiar wording of the written contract renders- it
somewhat doubtful whether there was a sale of the lands to
the appellee to be made complete by a conveyance of the legal
title or defeated altogether, according to his performance or
failure to perform the conditions upon which he was to receive
a deed, or whether he was simply given possession, paying a
fixed amount annually, for use and occupancy, with the privilege of purchasing and with the right to demand a conveyance
in fee simple, upon the performance of those conditions. Taking the whole contract together, we incline to adopt the former
as the true interpretation. Such was the view taken by the
Supreme Court of Nebraska of a simiar contract as to land
between Cheney and one Robinson. Rob?,nson v Okeney, 1'[
Nebraska, 673, 679. But it is not necessary to express any
decided opinion upon this question, for, in any 7iew, it is clear
from the contract, not only that appellant could retain the
legal title until the appellee's obligations under it had all been
performed, but that he could resume possession immediately
upon the failure of the appellee to meet, punctually, any of the
conditions to be performed by him. Time may be made ol
the essence of the contract "by the express stipulations-of the
parties, or it may arise by implication from the very nature of
the property, or the avowed objects of .he seller or the purchaser." Taylor v .Longworth, 14 Pet. 172, 174,, ,Secombe v
4teele, 20 How 94, 104, .olgate v. Eaton, 116 U. S. 33, 40;Brownb v. Guarantee Trist Co., 128 U. S.403, 414. -The par-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

ties in this case, in words too distinct to leave room for construction, not only specify the time when each condition is to be
performed, but declare that "time and punctuality are material and essential ingredients" in the contract, and that it
must be "strictly and literally" executed. However harsh or
exacting its terms may be, as to the appellee, they do not contravene public policy; and, therefore, a refusal of the court to
give effect to them, according to the real intention of the parties, is to make a contract for them which they have not
chosen to make for themselves. 1 Sugden on Vendors, 8th
Amer. Ed. 410 [268], Barnardv Lee, 97 Mass. 92, 91, .Hipwell v _Hnight, 1 Younge & Coll. Exch. 401, 415. These
observations are made because counsel for the appellant insists,
with some confidence, that an affirmance of the decree below
will necessarily be a departure from the general principles just
stated.
'But there are other principles, founded in justice, that must
control the decision of the present case. Even where time is
made- material, by express stipulation, the failure of one of
the parties to perform a condition within the particular tune
limited, will not in every case defeat his right to specific performance, if the condition be subsequently performed, without
unreasonable delay, and no circumstances have intervened
that would render it unjust or inequitable to give such relief.
The discretion which a court of equity has to grant or refuse
specific performance, and. which is always exercised with reference to the circumstances of the particular case before it,
(Hennessy v Ifoolworth, 128 U S. 438, 4A2,) may, and of necessity must often be controlled by the conduct of the party
who bases his refusal to perform the contract upon the failure
of the other party to strictly .comply with its conditions.
Setoe v SZade, 7 Ves. 265,- 279, Levy v Lindo, 3 Merivale,
81, 84, Hudson v Bartraz, 3 Madd. 440, 447, Lilley v
Fifty Assomcctes, 101 Mass. 432, 435, Potter v Tuttle, 22
Connecticut, 512, 519. See, also, Al
v Johnson, 20 How
511, 518.
To this class belongs, m our judgment, the case before us.
Although the contract between Cheney and Libby called for

CHENTEY v. LIBBY.
Opinion of the Court.

payment in dollars, the latter might well have supposed,
unless distinctly informed to the contrary, that the former..
would be willing to receive current funds, that is, such as are
ordinarily received by men of business or by banks. And
such funds were received in payment of all of Libby's notes
falling due in 1880 to 1884-, inclusive. While this course of
business was not an absolute waiver by Oheney of his right
to demand coin or legal-tender paper in payment of notes
subsequently falling due, such conduct, during a period of
several years, was calculated to produce the nnpression upon
Libby's mind that current or bankable funds would be received
in payment of any of his notes. And, therefore, upon every
principle of fair dealing Oheney was bound to give reasonable
notice of his purpose, after 1884, to accept only such funds as,
under the contract, strictly interpreted, he was entitled to
demand. No such notice was given. On the contrary, the
just inference from the testimony is, that Cheney designed
to throw Libby off his guard, and render it impossible for the
latter, or for the bankers to whom he sent drafts to be used
in paying his notes, to supply the requisite amount of coin
or legal-tender paper, on the very day the notes matured,
and at the moment of their presentation for payment. The
efforts of Russell & Holmes, within, a few moments after
Cheney left their bank on the 1st of ;June, to find him, and
to pay off the notes m legal-tender paper, nd the efforts of
Libby, by his agent, as soon as he was informed of Cheney's
demand for payment in coin or legal-tender paper, to reach
him, and to pay off the notes maturing in 1885, in lawful
money, and his repeated offers, subsequently, to pay them in
such money, showed the utmost diligence, and sufficiently
excuse his failure to pay in coin or legal-tender paper on the
very day his notes matured. To permit Cheney, 'under the
circumstances disclosed, to enforce a forfeiture of the contract,
would enable him to take advantage of his own wrong, and
to reap the fruits of a scheme formed for the very purpose of
bringing about the non-peformanc'of the contract.
But it is contended that the provision in the contract forbidding its modification or change, "except by entry thereon

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

in writing signed by both parties," coupled -with the provision
that no court should relieve Libby from a failure to comply
strictly and literally with the contract, stands in the way of a
decree for specific performance.
It is suifficient, upon this
point, to say, that such provisions -*if they could in any case
fetter the power of the court to do justice according to the settled principles of law -cannot be applied where the efficient
cause of the failure of the party seeking specific performance to
comply strictly and literally with the contract was the conduct
of the other party If the defendant had agreed, in writing,
signed by tiimself alone, to accept current funds and not to
demand coin or legal-tender notes, and, notwithstanding such
agreement, he had demanded coin or legal-tender notes, under
circumstances rendering it impossible for the plaintiff to meet

the demand on the day limited by the contract, would he be
permitted to say that the contract was forfeited for the
failure to make payment according to its provisions 2
We
suppose not, although, .according to his argument, such an
agreement not having been signed by both parties and endorsed
on the contract, would not estop him from insisting upon a
strict and literal compliance with its terms.
It results from what has been said that the failure of the
plaintiff, Libby, in person or by agent, to pay the notes
maturing in 1885, in coin or legal-tender paper, at the time
they were presented by Cheney for payment at the bankinghouse of Russell & Holmes, did not work a forfeiture of the
contract, and does not stand in'the way of a decree for specific
performance.
In respect to the notes falling due in 1886 and 1887, the
evidence satisfactorily shows that the plaintiff, at the tines.
and place appointed for their payment, offered, and was then
and there ready, to pay them in lawful money, but the notes
not being on either occasion in the hands of Russell & Holmes
for collection, he could not make actual payment, but left the
money at their bank to be paid over to Cheney whenever the
notes were presented at that place. The hiotes due in those
years were, it. is true, in the manual possession of Russell &
Holmes, but they were not in their custody by direction of

CHENEY v. LIBBY.
Opimon of the Court.

Cheney for collection or for any other purpose. Libby did
all that he could do with respect to .the notes falling due in
those years in order to comply "strictly and literally" with
the contract. Indeed, after the surrender by Cheney in 1885,
of the notes due in that and subsequent years, and his -formal
notification to Libby that he regarded the contract as forfeited, and would not receive any money from him, Libby
was not bound, as a condition of his right to claim specific
performance, to go through the useless ceremony of tendering
payment at the banking-house of Russell & iHolmes of the
notes maturing in 1886 and 1887. Brook v. Bidy, 13 Ohio
St. 306, Deschmann v Dezhmann, 49 Missouri, 107, 109,
Crary v Smith, 2 Comstock (2 N. Y) 60. In Hutnter 'v.
Davel, 4 Hare, 420, 433, it was said "The only remaining
point insisted upon was that the making of every payment
was a condition precedent to the right of- the plaintiff to call
for the execution of the agreement, or, in fact, to call for the
benefit of it, and it was argued. that the bill could not
properly be filed before the plaintiff had, out of court, fully
performed his agreement. The general rule in equity certainly is not of that strict character. A party filing a bill
submits to do everything that is required of him, and the
practice of the. court is not to require the party to make a
formal tender where, as in this case, from the facts stated
in the bill, or from the evidence, it appears that the tender
would have been a mere form, and that the party to.whom- it
was made would have refused to accept the money" Whether
that be a sound view or not, with reference to the particularcontract here in question, Libby did, in fact, make a proper
tender of payment as to these notes. Before the bringing of
this suit he had .paid, and offered to pay, more than one-half
of the price for the land -and all accrued interest and taxes,
and, therefore, was entitled by the terms of the contract to a
deed, be executing notes and a mortgage for the remaining
payments to run the unexpired time, as stipulated in the
agreement.
The court below found that the notes falling due in 1885,
1886 and 1887 were paid, that the plaintiff had deposited
VOL. CXXXIV-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

with the clerk for the defendant a mortgage on the land to
secure the payments dv% eight, nine and ten years after the
date of the contract, an4 that he had fully done and performed every obligation imposed upon him to entitle him to a
deed. It was adjudged that the defendant, within forty days
from the decree, execute, acknowledge and deliver to the plaintiff a good and sufficient deed, with the usual covenants of warranty, (excepting the right of way that may be demanded for
public use for railways or common roads,) conveying to him
the land in question, and in default of which it was adjudged
that the decree itself should operate, and have the same force
and effect, as a deed of the above description.
We are not able to concur in the finding that the notes falling due in 1885, 1886 and 1887 had been pai,.d when this
decree was passed. If those notes had been placed by Cheney
with Russell & Holmes for collection, and the latter had collected the amounts due on them, then they would have been
paid, for. in such case, that firm would have been the agent of
the payee to collect" the notes, and the money received by
them would have belonged to him.
In Iard v. Smith, 7 Wall. 447, 450, the question arose as
to whether a bank at which certain bonds were made payable
was the agent of the holder to receive payment. The court
said "It is undoubtedly true that the designation of the
place of payment in the bonds imported a stipulation that
their hokler should have them at the bank, when due, to
receive payment, and. that the obligors would produce there
the funds to pay them. It was inserted for the mutual convenience of the parties. And it'is the general usage in such
cases for the holder of the instrument to lodge it with the
bank for collection, and the party bound for its payment can
call there and take it up. If the instrument be not there
lodged, and the obligor is there at its maturity with the necessarv funds to pay it, he so far satisfies the contract that he
cannot be made responsible for any future damages, either as
costs of suit or interest, for delay When the instrument is
lodged with the bank for collection,, the bank becomes the
agent of the payee or obligee to' ieceive payment. The

CIHEINTEY v. LIBBY.
Opinion of the Court.

agency extends no further, and without special authority an
agent can only receive payment of the debt due his principal
in the legal currency of the country, or in bills which pass as
money at their par value by the common consent of the community In the case at bar only one bond was deposited with
the Farmers' Bank. That institution, therefore, was only
agent of the payee for its collection. It had no authority to
receive payment of the other bonds for him or on his account.
Whatever it may have received from the obligors to be
applied on the other bonds, it received as their agent, not: as
the agent of the oblig~e. If the notes have depreciated since
in its possession, the loss must be adjusted between the bank
and the depositors; it cannot fall upon the holder of the
bonds." See, also, Adams v H]aclkensack Improvement Corm.,
44 N. J. Law (15 Vroom), 638, where this -question is elaborately examined, Hills v Place, 48 N. Y 520, Williams-,
port Gas Co. v. Pnkerton, 95 IPenn. St. 62, 64, Wood v. fAerclants' Savzng, Zoan & Tr'ust Co., 41 Illinois, 267.
Russell & Holmes, then, did not become the agent of Cheney
to receive the amount of the notes by reason simply of the
fact that the notes Were made payable at their bank. The
funds left by Libby with them to be applied in payment of
the notes of 1885, 1886 and 1887 are, therefore, his property,
not the property of Cheney The utmost effect of Libby's
offer, within a reasonable time after June 1, 1885, to pay the
note of that year in lawful money, and of his offers, at the
appointed times and place, to pay the notes of 1886 and 1887,
was to prevent the forfeiture of the contract, and to save his
right to have it specifically performed, so far as that right
depended upon his paying, those notes. But they- must be
actually paid by him before he is entitled to a deed, or to a
decree that will have the force and effect of a conveyance.
Under the circumstances it was not absolutely necessary that
he should have brought the money into court for the defendant
at the time he filed his bill. His offer in the bill to perform
all the conditions and stipulations of the contract was sufficient to give him a standing in court. Irvzn v. Gregory, 13
Gray, 215, 218, Hunt r v. Bales, 24 Indiana, 299, 303, Fal

