OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

ROWE MACHINE COMPANY v. NATIONAL NEEDLE
-COMPANY
HOWE MACHINE COMPANY v. WHITTEN.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Nos. 201, 202.

Argued March 7, 10, 190.- Decided March 24, 1890.
1

There was no novelty or invention in " the combination of a griping chuck,
by which an article can be so held by one end as to present the other
free to be operated unon, with a.rest preceding the cutting tool, when
it is combined with a guide cam, or its equivalent, which modifies the
movement of the cutting tool, all operating together for the purpose
set forth," which was patented to Charles Spring and Andrew Spring by
letters patent, dated May 10, 1859, and extended for seven years from
May 10, 1873, and the letters patent therefor are therefore invalid.
PennsylvaniaRailroadv. Locomotive Truck Co., 110 U. S. 490, again affirmed.

THESE were appeals from decrees of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Massachusetts, dismissing
bills in equity brought on account of alleged infringement of
letters patent granted May 10, 1859, to Charles and Andrew
Spring, for an "Improvement in Lathes for turning Irregular
Forms." The patent was extended for seven years from May
10, 1873. The bills were filed May 27, 1879.
The opinion of the Circuit Court was announced September
30, 1884, but by reason of the interposition of petitions for
rehearing, the final decree was not entered until April 17,
1886.
The specification was as follows:
"To all whom it may concern.
"Be it known that we, Charles and Andrew Spring, both
of Boston, in the county of Suffolk and State of Massachusetts,
have invented a new combination designed for turning such
articles as are to be brought to a point or are to be finished
or turned at one end, and therefore cannot conveniently be

HOWE MACHUNE CO. v. NATIOINAL NEEDLE CO. 389
Statement of the Case.

held to be operated upon otherwise than by the opposite end,
and we do hereby declare that the following, taken in connection with the accompanying drawings which form part of
this specification, is a clear, full and exact description of our
invention and sufficient to enable those skilled in the art to
practice it. Fig. 2 is a perspective view embodying our invention, and Fig. 1 is a plan exhibiting more in detail:some
of its parts. c represents the head stock and b the tail stock
of a lathe fixed upon a bed, d. The spindle a is supported
and rotated in the manner usual in lathes, and carries a chuck
which seizes and holds by one end the article o to be operated
upon. The spindle I in the tail stock k is capable of traversing backwards and forwards in the axial line of the lathe's
rotation, but does not itself rotate. This movement may be
accomplished by the means usual for this purpose in lathes.
The-carriage m is raised from the lathe bed d in the support
n, on which it is guided in movements towards and from o by
means of the usual 'ways.
Rotation of the screw p causes
the movements of the carriage m, and the set-screw s is used
to gauge the diameter of the article operated upon, which it
does by striking on n, which is fixed to the lathe bed and
arrests further onward movement of m. Fixed upon m and
partaking of its movements is the arrangement which modifies the movement of the tool-carrier. This arrangement
consists of two principal parts, q and P; q is pivoted to n by
screw t, and is held m any desired position by the screws-U,
q being slotted where these screws pass through it into m.
It may here be mentioned that this provision for the adjustment of q is for the purpose of giving any required taper to o,
and that the screws v aid in the adjustment of q. The piece
r is connected with q by the guide rods w passing through
the latter and fixed in the former. Compressed spiral springs
around w act to draw r and the roll shown in dotted lines,
Fig. 1, towards q. The carriage x rests upon and slides over
q and r, and bears with it the tool-holder 9/,
which is of
angular form and can slide within w towards and from o.
It is to y that the roll before mentioned, as shown in qotted
lines, Fig. 1, is fixed, x being slotted where it passes througli

OCTOBER TERM, 188Q.
Statement of the Case.

to admit of movement of y. A portion of w extends upwards,
anal is made to fit in a hole bored for that purpose in 't&
spindle 1. To admit of nice adjustment of the tool o the piece
z is pivotea to y, and raised and lowered by operating at the
end opposite the pivot, the set-screw a?; and holding screw 1.,
z is extended above and over the tool o', so that by the action
of the set-screw d' the tool is confined to or released from y.
On that side of w preceding the tool In its cutting movement
toward the chuck, and forming a part of or fixed to x. is a
yoke arranged to contain a die, 8' This die is made in two
parts, having a hole through them, half in each part, of just
the diameter of the material from which the finished article
is to be formed. This hole in the die is made and kept concentric with the axis or the lathe's rotation by set-screws, one
of which acts on opposite sides of each half, and also one from
the top and another from beneath. The. sides of q and P,
with which the roll fixed in y comes into contact, should conform nearly to the general outline of the article to be turned.
A slot is made, in from that side touching the roll, and in
about the centre of its thickness. Within this slot may. be
placed any desirable pattern projecting beyond the acting face
of q, and this pattern may be adjustable. In the particular
instance illustrated y and r' are formed for turning awls or
machine needles. The pattern e', which is adjustable by means
of the set-screw n', is pivoted in q and serves to shape the
shank of the awl or needle, while the pattern o', which is
adjustable along the length of q, as well as outward from it,
serves to form and shape the point. A groove is formed in y,
as shown in dotted lines, Fig. 1, in which the pivot of o' ,s
permitted to slide, and the pattern is held in position by the
pinch produced by the action of the screwsu u. The material
from which any article is to be turned by the use of oar
invention must be cylindrical and straight, and the hole in the
die must be of its diameter. The carriage x is forced forward
and drawn back by the spindle 1, and the direction of its
-movement is at all times parallel with the axis of the lathe's
rotation. The tool-holder y partakes of the movement x, and
is at the same time moved toward and from the piece to be

HOWE MACI-E CO. v. NATIOINAL NqEEDIE CO.

891

Statement of the Case.

turned by the action of the shaping mechamsm described as
existing in q, 9,, el and o' upon the roll or pin fixed in
and passing through x. The arrangement of the shaping
mechanism illustrated by the drawing is that designed and
adapted to the formation of awls or machine needles. The
action of the springs upon the guide rods w draws r against
the roll fixed in y and keeps it constantly pressed against 9
and the projecting parts of the adjustable formers e' and o'
therein arranged. The form and adjustment. of e' govern the
shape of that part of the awl between its haft and shaft, and
the form and adjustment o', the shape of the point, and, as o'
is adjustable along the length of q, any length of awl or needle
within the limits of the machine .can be brought to a point.
Provision is made for giving any desired amount of taper to
the shape of -theneedle or awl by the inclination of q, obtainable by pivoting on t, and adjustable by the screws v. The.
tool is adjusted and held in the best position for cutting by
the screws d' a' V, and the diameter of the article to be turned
is varied by the action of screwp and gauged by the screws s.
The chuck used to hold the material to be operated on may
be any of the well-known forms of griping or holding
chucks that hold fast by one end the article which is to be
turned. We prefer to use such a chuck as we have fully
described in an application for letters patent bearing even
date herewith. Priorto our invention, awls and needles have
been brought to a point by grinding by hand, a process which
evidently is apt to leave the point out of the centre of the
needle, and the part near the haft has either been left with a
square shoulder or else curved by-the action of a separate tool
from that which formed the shaft, sometimes used as a hand
tool. Amongst'the advantages derived from the use of our
invention may be mentioned that the article is turned perfectly
true at one operation, and no time is lost by rechucking, handtooling or grinding.
"Having described our invention, what we claim therein as
new and desire to secure by letters patent of the'United States
is -

"1The combination of a griping, chuck~, by which an article

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

can be so held by one end as to present the other free to be
operated upon, with a rest preceding the cutting tool, when it
is combined with a guide cam, or its equivalent, which modifies the movement of the cutting tool, all operating together
for the purpose set forth."
The causes were heard before Mr. Justice Gray and the District Judge, and the opinion of the court was delivered by the
latter as follows, 21 Fed. Rep. 630
"NELsoT J
These suits are bills in equity for-the infringement of patent No.. 23,957, granted to Oharles and Andrew
Spring May 10, 1859, for an improvement in lathes for turning irregular forms. The invention, as described in the specification, is a new combination designed for turning such articles as are to be brought to a point or are to be -finished or
turned at one end, and therefore cannot conveniently be held
to be operated upon otherwise than by the opposite end. It
consists (1) of a griping chuck, by which the article is held by
one. end so as to present the other end free to be operated
upon, (2) a rest preceding the cutting tool, to afford support
to the article in the operation of turning; (3) a cutting tool,
and (4) a guide cam, or its equivalent, which modifies the
movement of the cutting tool. The chuck may be of any of
the well-known forms of griping or holding chucks, which
hold the article to be turned fast by one end. The material
to be turned must be cylindrical and straight. In the drawings annexed, the guide cam is of a form suitable for turning
awls or nachine needles, and the plaintiffs contend that their
machine, as patented, was intended to be.and is a lathe for
turning sewing-machine needles or awls. The claim is for
' the combination of a griping chuck, by which an article can
be so held by one end as to present the other free. to be operated upon, with a rest preceding the cutting tool, when it is
combined with a guide cam or its equivalent, which modifies
the movement of the cutting tool, all operating 'together for
the purpose set forth.'
"The defendants have proved, by testimony which we cannot doubt, that as long ago as the year 1845, and perhaps still
earlier, a machine was in use in the shop of William Murdock,

HOWE XAOHIINE 00. v. NATIONAL NEEDLE 00.

393

-Counsel-for Parties.

m Winchendon, Massachusetts, which contained all the elements and *thepreise combination of the Spring patent. It
had the griping chuck, the rest preceding the cutting tool, the
cutting tool, and, instead of the guide cam, its equivalent, a
pattern- all the parts arranged, combined and operating in
the same manner as in the Spring machine. It had, in addition, a fixed cutting tool, preceding the rest, which served- to
reduce the material to the cylindrical form -n which it is first
received in the Spring lathe. But this extra tool'formed no
part and was wholly independent of the other combination.
The machine still had all the elements of the Spring lathe in
the same combina on. The Murdock lathe was used for turning tapering wooden skewers or spindles for use in spinning
yarn. It was not constructed so as to be capable of turning
awls or machine needles from metal.
"It has been decided by the Supreme Court that 'the application of an old process or machine to a similar or analogous
subject, with no change in the manner of application, ana no
results substantially distinct in its nature, will not sustain a
patent, even if the new form of result has not before been
contemplated.' Pennylvansa .Railroadv -Tocofotive Truck
Co., 110 -U. S. 490.
"Applying this rule to the present case, we are of-opinion
that the application to the turning of machine awls and needles from metal, of mechanism old and familiar in the art of
wood turning, is not invention, and is not patentable. We
therefore decide 'that the Murdock lathe was an anti6ipation
of the Spring invention, and that the complainants' patent is
void for want of novelty This vnew -of the case renders it
unnecessary for us to consider the other matters urged in defence of the complainants' suit at the argument:
"The entry in eaclh case will be.. bill dismissed, with
costs."
-Mr Ea!vey ) Hadlock for appellants.
Mr Grosvenor Zowrey and. _&r
pellees.

Jon E. Abbott for ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIFiJUSTICE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
Doubtless a claim is to be construed in connection with the
explanation contained in the specification and it may be so
drawn as in effect to make the specification an essential part
of it, but since the inventor must particularly specify and
point out the part, improvement or combination which he
claims as his own invention or discovery, the specification and
drawings are usually looked at only for the purpose of better
understanding the meaning of the claim, and certainly not for
the purpos6 of changing it and making it different from what
it is. As remarked by Mr. Justice Bradley, in Writhe v .Dunbar, 119 U S. 41- 52 "The c3aim is a statutory requirement,
prescribed for the very purpose of 'making the patentee define
precisely what his invention is, and it is unjust to the public,
as well as an evasion of the law, to construe it in a manner
different from the plain import of its terms."
The patentees state that they "have invented a new
combination designed for turning such articles as are to be
brought to a poin or are to be finished or turned at one end,
and therefore cannot conveniently be held to be operated
upon otherwise than by the opposite end." In the drawings
attached to the patent, q and r are the guide-cam or pattern
specially referred- to in the specification, and it is said that
"in the particular instance illustrated q and r are formed for
turning awls or machine needles," and that "the arrangement
of the -shaping mechanism illustrated by the drawing is that
designed and adapted to the formation of awls or machine
needles." They also say that "the material from which any
article is to be turned by the use of our invention must be
cylindrical and straight," -and that "the chuck used to hold
the material to be operated on may be any of the well-known
forms of grrping or holding chucks that hold fast by one end
the article which is to be turned."
The claim is couched in plain and unambiguous language,
and is "The combination of a griping chuck, by which an
at ile can be so held by one end as to present the other free

HOWE MACHINE CO. v. NATIONAL N{EEDLE CO.

395

Opinion of the Court.

to be operated upon, with a rest preceding the cutting tool,
when it is combined with a guide cam, or its equivalent,
which modifies the movement of the cutting tool, all operating together for the purpose set forth." The alleged improvement is in the mode of producing turned articles of "irregular
forms," and the purpose set forth is the turning of such articles
as are to be brought to a point or to be turned or finished at
one end, and which ought, therefore, to be held by the opposite end in order- to be operated upon. The material is not
specified, but it must be cylindrical and straight.
The complainant's expert testifies on cross-examination
"The patent is for a combination. The new part consists of
elements, each and all of them old and familiar in prefxisting
combinations. They are, therefore, the griping chuck, the
supporting rest preceding the cutting .tool, a cutting tool
having the reciprocating motion towards and from the axis of
"the piece to be operated upon, under the control of a guide
cam or former, so organized as to be also under the constant
control of delicate adjusting apparatus, by which the required
diameter of a piece to be operated upon may be constantly
preserved without disturbing the functional -performance of
former and cutting tool, substantially as set forth and described, all operating together for the purpose set forth. It is,
then, the combination of these several- elements, as organized,
which constitutes Ahe new part." But the combination
claimed is the combination of a griping chuck, a rest preceding the cutting tool, a cutting tool, and a guide cam or
its equivalent; and complainants cannot now b9 permitted to
read into it any delicate adjusting apparatus vot' originally
included in the claim, and then insist, irn, the words of the
witness, .that there is "a margin of patentable'novelty"
The Springs completed their first machine in September or
October, 1857. Their patent was issued May 10, 1859.
As found by the Circuit Cotirt, the testimbny leaves no
doubt that as early as 1845, William Murdoclk used a lathe at
tWinchendon, Massachusetts,-for turning pointed skewers .of
iyood. This had a chuck, a cutting tool, a rest precedihg
the cutting tool, and a pattern governing, the movement of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

cutting tool to shape the skewer to the desired form, or, in other
words, all the elements of the Spring combination, as claimed.
Defendants' expert, Brevoort, correctly says "This IMurdock device shows the combination of a holding chuck which
holds the material at one end while the other end is left free,
a rest preceding a -cutting tool; which latter is controlled in its
movements by guide or former, so that the parts operating
together will produce irregular forms. Now this is the invention referred to in the claim of the Spring patent, and this
Murdock lathe undoubtedly contains the invention recited in
the Spring patent, with the exception that in the Murdock
lathe the 'parts axe- adapted for turning wood, while in the
Spring device they are more especially adapted for turmng
metal." And he continues "I understand that this Murdock
lathe was used for turning large. numbers of yarn skewers,
such as were used at one time 'in mills where cotton goods
were manufactured. 'Defendants' Exhibit Murdock Skewer,
W G. H., Sp. Ex'r,' shows one of these skewers, and when I
compare this skewer. With a sewing-machine needle, as the
question requested me to do, I find that both the needle and
the skewer are brought to a point. The Murdock lathe, the
Spring device, and the Pernot lathe all being adapted for
producing points upon the articles subjected to their action,
the only difference being that the Pernot and Spring lathes
were adapted for making points on metal, while the M'Aurdock
lathe is adapted for making points on wooden blanks, all of
the three lathes referred to, as well as the Wright lathe and
the Waymoth lathe, being so constructed as to produce the
desired'configuration upon the surface of the turned bIink by
using a pattern or former of the desired shape. In all the
lathes referred to by me in this testimony the irregular form
of the article turned is reached by the. former, guide, or pattern causing the cutting tool, as jt was slid toward the holding
or griping chuck, to approach or recede from the axial line.
of the work, and in all these lathes the cutting tool is preceded
by a rest through a hole in which the work revolves, leavig
one end of the work free, while the other is held and turned
by the chuck"

HOWE MACI

CO. v. NAT[-QAL NEEDLE CO.

397

Opinion of the Court.

There is nothing in the specification about the nature of the
material to be used, nor is the device limited to the production
of awls and needles, although the drawings show that mode of
applying the invention, and "the particular instance illustrated" is that "designed and adapted to the formation of
awls or machine needles." 3ut the invention claimed is not
restricted to lathes for turning sewing-machine needles, nor
did the patentees by-discla.imer place any such limit upon the
construction of the patent.
The rule laid down in Pennsylvansa Railroadv. .ocomot.ve
Truck Co., 110 U. S. 490, that the -application of an old process or machine to a similar or analogous subject, with no
change in the manner of applying it, and no result substantially distinct in its nature, will not sustain a patent, even if
the new form of result has not before been contemplated, has
been applied m very many cases by this court. Thompson
Bomsselier, 114' U. S. 1, Peters v Active Wf'g Co., 129 U. S.
530, Peters v. Hanson, 129 U S. 542; Aron v. -afattan
R.ilway Co., 132 U. S. 84, Watson v. Cinomnati.-c. Railway Co., 132 U. S. 161.
In the employment of the chuck, the rest, the cutting tool
and the guide cam m the. making of awls and needles, the
patentees displayed the skill of their calling, which involved
"" only the exercise of the ordinary faculties of reasoning upon
the materials supplied by a special knowledge, and the facility
of manipulation which results from its habitual and intelligent
practice."
ollister v Benedict-' fg Co., 113 U. S. 59, 73.
The purpose of Murdock, in reference to the wooden skewer,
was the -same as the purpose of the Springs m reference to
articles of*any material which could be worked up on theur
machines. The claim- was certainly broad enough to-include
Murdock's invention, and no disclaimer was ever filed, and
even with, a limitation as to the article, patentable novelty was
not present, -within the rule upon that subject. The art of
turning is the art of turning, whether applied to wood or
metal, and it would seem that there was here nothing more
than the substitution of one material for another, without m-.
volving an essentially new mode of coiistruction. And be thaT
'

