OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

given by the voters of the town of Memphis to the issue in
1871 of its bonds to the Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska Railway
Company, but only to its subscription to stock in that company, and no subsequent loan of credit by the issue of bonds
to the company could be authorized by the legislature except
under the restrictions of the constitution.
The same answer may be made to the claim of authority
under the act of the State of March 24, 1868, enabling counties, cities and towns to fund their debts. The constitution of
the State controls its constrilction and prevents the issue of
any bonds by a town of the State without the previous assent
of two-thirds of its voters expressed at an election, general
or special, called for that purpose.

TRACY v. TUFFLY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UEITED STATES
EASTERN1

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No: 134. Argued November 22, 25, 1889.-Decided March 3, 1890.

The third section of the act of the legislature of Texas entitled "An actan
relation to assignments for the benefit of creditors, and to regulate the
same and the proceedings thereunder," passed March 25, 1879, provides
that "any debtor desiring so to do, maymake an assignment for the b6nefit
of such of his creditors only as will consent to accept their proportional
share of his estate, and discharge him fiom their respective claims, and
in such case the benefits of the assignment shall be limited and restricted
to the creditors consenting thereto; the debtor shall thereupon be and
stand discharged from all further liability to such consenting creditors
on-account of their respectiVe claims, and when paid they shall execute
and deliver to the assignee for the debtor a release therefrom." That
section was amended by an act passed April 7, 1883, so as to provide that
"such debtor shall not be discharged from liabilities to a creditor who
does not receive as much as one-third of the amount due, and allowed in
his favor as a valid claim against the estate of such debtor; " HeZd, that
this legislation applied to limited partnerships formed under chapter 68 of
the Revised Civil Statutes of Texas, adopted by an act passed March 17,
1879.
An assignment by a nmited partnership consisting of one general partner

TRAOY v. TUFFLY.
Statement of the Case.
and one special partner, for the benefit of its creditors, may be executed
by the general partner; and such assignment need not embrace the individual property of the special partner.
An assignment by a limited partnership for the benefit of its creditors is
not void because the-verified schedule attached to the assignment embraces
a debt of the special partner, Which cannot, under the statute, be paid
ratably with the claims of other creditors.
The only effect of the failure of"a limited partnership to state fully in the
published notice the terms.of the partnership is that the partnrsbip shall
be deemed general.
Circumstances stated under which creditors may be estopped to deny the
existence of a partnership as a limited partnership.
While repeals of statutes by implication are- not favored by the courts,
it is settled that, without express words of repeal, a previous statnte will
be held to be modified by a subsequent one, if the latter was plainly
intended to cover the whole subject embraced by both, and to prescribethe only rules in respect to that subject which are to govern.

Tim case, as stated by the court, was as follows
The principal questions in this case arise under the laws of
Texas relating to limited partnerships, and to assignments for
the benefit of creditors. Before examining these laws, the
facts out of which this litigation arises will be stated.
Prior to March 26, 1884, R. W McLm and W T. Tumiy
were partners doing business at Houston, Texas, under the
name of R. W McLiih & Co. On that day MeLin died, his
widow and two minor children surviving him. No administration was had upon his -estate. At the time of his- death
the firm was-largely indebted to various individuals and partnershlps. Among the latter were Morrison, Herriman & Co.,
Dunham, Buckley & Co., and W H. Lyon & Co., who are
plaintiffs m error. After consultation with the agent of many
of the creditors -the firms just named among the numberthe surviving partner q ud the widow determined ,to form a
limited partnership under the name.of "W T. TufEy;" which
should assume the debts of R. W McLin & Co. in consideration
of the release, by creditors of the old firm, of the estate of
R. W McLin from liability for their debts. From a trial
bala-qce of the accounts of the old firm which Tuffly caused tobe made, it appeared that after the payment of its debts the
9hare belonging to R. W
estate was $6419.36. Mrs.
-McIan's

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

McLin having sold and transferred to .Tuffiy all the goods and
merchandise belonging to the old firm, they executed the following certificate of the formation of a special partnership
"STATE

OF

TEx.s, County of-Harms

"We, W T. Tuffly and Mrs. Christine E. McLin, hereby
certify that we have formed a copartnership, under the firm
name of W T. Tuffty, under which firm name the business of
such copartnership shall be conducted.
"The general nature of the business intended to be transacted is a general retail and wholesale, if they see proper, fancy
and staple dry-goods and notion establishment in the city of
Houston, Texas. W T. Tuffly is and will be the general
partner of such partnership, resident of the city of Houston,
Texas, and Mrs. Christine E. McLm is and will be the special
partlier of such partnership, whose residence is also in said city
of Houston, Texas.
"The said Mrs. Christine E. McLin has contributed the sum
of six.thousand four hundred and nineteen and 36-100 dollars
to the common stock. The said partnership is to commence
on the 16th day of April, 1884, .and to continue for the space
of two years, to end on the 16th day~of April, 1886.
"W T. TuFFLY.
E. MoLn."
"CGmisT=n
This certificate was duly acknowledged'by Tuffly and Mrs.
McLin on the day of its date, before a notary public of the
county, who certified the fact under the seal of his office. And
on the same day, as appears from the official certificate of that
officer, W T. Tuffly, as the general partner named in the certificate of partnership, certified, under oath, that Christine E.
McLin, the special partner- therein, "has contributed to the
common stock of said partnership the sum specified in said
certificate, and the said sum has in good faith actually been
paid in cash." The record also contains the certificate of the
county clerk, under the seal of his office, to the effect, that the
certificate of partnership, with the certificate of its authentication, was filed for registration in his office on the 25th day of

TRAOY v. TUFFLY.
Statement of the Case.

April, 1884-, and was duly recorded on the 96th day of May of
the same year.
In conformity with the direction of the clerk of the county
court, the following notice was published in a designated
newspaper for six successive weeks from April 26, 1884
"The undersigned give notice that they have formed a copartnership under the firm-name of W- T. Tuffly, having the
following terms, as will appear by their executd and recorded
certificate W T. Tuffly is the general partner; Mrs. Christine
E: McLin is the special partner, and has contributed to the
common stock the sum of six thousand four hundred and
nineteen 36-100 dollars. W T. Tuffiy Christine E. McLin."
On the day of the formation of this partnership, April 24,
1884, numerous creditors of R. W McLin & Co.-among the
number, Morrison, Herriman &Co., Dunham Buckley & Co.,
W H. Lyons & Co. -executed a written release in these
words "The undersigned, creditors of the late firm of R. W
McLm & Company, in consideration of the assumption of all
the indebtedness of said late firm by the firm of W T. Taffly,
composed of W T. Tuffly, general, and Christine E. McLin,
special partner, as appears by the certificates by them signed,
hereby release the estate of R. W MoLin, deceased, from any
and all liability on account of the obligations of said firm of
R. W McLin & Co., either by note or open account or
otherwise."
W T. Tuffly entered upon the business contemplated.by the
partnership between himself, as general partner, and Mrs.
McLin, as special partner, and continued in its prosecution
until the 23d of March, 1885, when he executed a writing of
assignment, upon the construction and legal effect of which
the decision of some of the questions in this case depends It
is in these words
"STATE oF TEXAs, County of .farrn8
"Whereas the firm of W T. Tuffiy, composed of W T.
Tuffly, the general partner, and C. E. McLin. as special partner,
finding it impossible to pay its debts as they mature, and being
desirous to have a distribution of all the property of said fir
VOL. CXX UV-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

and the property of the said W T. Tuffly, partnership and individual, and wishing to avail himself of the provisions of the
general assignment law in such cases made and provided. Now,
therefore, in consideration of the premises and one dollar to me
in hand paid, I, W T. Tuffly, hereby assign and convey and
deliver possession of all and singular my property and effects,
of whatever name and nature, both personal and real, which I
own as copartner and*individually, and intend to include all
property of which or in which I have any interest whatever,
wherever the same may be, to Louis Tuffly, as assignee, for the
purposes aforesaid, taking possession of the same and sell the
same, collect and convert the same, and when so sold, collected
and converted, to appropriate the same ratably or in full payment, as the case may be, of all my debts and the debts of the firm
of W T. Tuffly, said assignee to proceed under the law aforesaid.
This assignment is intended for the benefit of all such of my
creditors only as will consent to accept their proportional share
of said property and estate so hereby conveyed, and discharge
me, as aforesaid, from their respective claims, said assignee
to take lawful compensation for his -services herein and expenses and counsel fees necessary to aid him and enable him
to carry out the purposes of this conveyance.
"Schedules are hereto attached, and made as particular as
I can do at this time, but in any particular where they may be
incorrect or insufficient in detail they will be corrected by me.
"In witness whereof I hereunto set my hand, at Houston,
this March 23d, 1885.
"W T. TUFFLY."
That deed of assignment was duly acknowledged, and to it
were attached exhibits duly verified by the oath of W T.
Tuffly These exhibits consisted of an inventory of the estate
assigned and a schedule of the debts. In the latter appears a
claim of Mrs. McLin of "$7798, notes, borrowed money "
Louis Tuffly, the assignee, endorsed his acceptance of the trust
on the back of the deed, and gave bond as assignee, which
was approved by the judge of the 11th Judicial District of
Texas, March 23, 1885, on which day the deed of assignment

TRA'OY v. TUFPLY.
Statement of the Case.

and bond were filed for record m the proper office. The.
assignee took immediate possession of the stock of -goods,
wares and merchandise, belonging to the firm of "W T.
Tuffly," also of the furniture, shelves, counters and stationery
in the store-house. The assignment was accepted by creditors
(excluding Mrs. McLm) whose debts aggregated $7116.26. It
was not accepted by Morrison, Herriman & Co., Dunham,
Buckley & Co., or W H. Lyon & Co. The assignee remained
in possession of the property until March 31, 1885, on which
day, under attachments sued out from the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Texas, by the
three firms just named, against the property of W T. Tity,
they were levied. upon and taken by Tracy, marshal o-f the
United States for that district. The latter refused to make a
levy, and'did not levy, until indemnifying bonds were executed in behalf of the attaching creditors, 6he latter knowing,
when they sued out the attachments, that the property was in
the possession of the defendant in error m virtue of the above
deed of assignment.
Under the order of the court the attached property was
sold and the proceeds of sale were brought into court and
paid into itsregistry
The present suit was brought by the assignee, in one. of the
courts of the State of Texas, against the marshal and the
sureties on his official bond, the breach alleged being the
illegal and wrongful seizure of the property in question, which
was alleged to be of the value of $29,972.22. It was removed,
upon the petition of the defendants, into the court below,
upon the ground that their defence arose under and involved
the construction of the Constitution and laws of the-United
States. Bachrack v Nor"n, 132 U. S. 337. The plaintiffs
in the attachment suits were, upon their motion, made parties
defendant, as were, also, the various parties who executed
indemnifying bonds to the marshal.
The result of a trial before a jury was a verdict and judgment for $17,000 against Tracy and the sureties on his official
bond, and against the attaching creditors. There was, also, a
verdict and judgment in favor of Tracy, upon the several in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

demnifying bonds given to him by those creditors, for the
following amounts $2500 .against Dunham, Buckley & Co.
and their sureties, $2600 against W H. Lyon & Co. and
their sureties, and $17,000 against Morrison, Herriman & Co.
and their surefies. A motion for a new trial having been
overruled, the defendants have brought the case here, and
assign various errors of law as having been committed by the
court below in its instructions to the jury, and m its refusal to
grant instructions asked by the defendants.
The statutes of Texas relating to limited partnerships, and
to assignments for the benefit of creditors are as follows
By the Revised Civil Statutes of that State, which went into
effect on the 1st day of September, 1879, it is provided that
limited partnerships for the transaction of any mercantile,
mechanical, manufacturing or other business, except banking
-or insurance, may be formed by two or more persons, with the
rights and powers, upon the terms and subject to the conditions
and liabilities, prescribed in chapter 68 of that revision.
Such partnerships may consist of one or more persons as
general partners, and of one or more persons as 9pecial partners, the latter contributing in actual cash payments a specific
sum to the common stock, but without liability for the debts
of the partnership, beyond the fund so contributed by him or
them to the capital. Art. 3443. The general partners only
are authorized to transact business and sign for the partnership and to bind the same. Art. 3444. Persons desirous of
forming such partnership are required to make and severally
sign a certificate, containing" "1. The name or firm under
which the partnership is to be conducted, 2. The general
nature of the business to be transacted, 3. The names of all
the general and special partners interested therein, distinguishing which are genera] and which are special partners, and their
respective places of residence, 4. The amount of capital which
each special partner shall have contributed to the common
stock, 5. The period at which the partnership is to commence
and the period at which it is to terminate." Art. 3445.
The certificate must be acknowledged before, and certified
by, an officer authorized to take acknowledgments of convey-

TRACY v. TUFFLY.
Statement of the Case.

ances of land, be filed in the office of the clerk of the county
court of every county in which the partnership shall have places
of business, and be recorded at large m each of such counties,
in a book to be kept for that purpose, open to public mspection. With the original certificate and the evidence of its
acknowledgment must be filed an affidavit of one or more of
the general partners, stating that the sums specified in the
certificate to have been contributed by each of the special
partners to the common stock have been actually and-in good
faith paid in cash. Arts. 3446, 3447, 3448. "No such partnership shall be deemed to have been formed until a certificate
shall have been made, acknowledged, filed and recorded; nor
until an affidavit shall have been fied as above directed, and
if any false statement be made in such certificate or affidavit
all the persons interested in such partnership shall be liable for
all the engagements thereof as general partners." Art. 3449.
"The partners shall publish the terms of the partnership, when
registered, for at least six weeks immediately after such registry, in such newspapers as shall be designated by the clerk in
whose office such registry shall be made, and -if such publication be not made the partnership shall be deemed general."
Art. 3450. The affidavit of the publication, by the publisher
of the newspapers in which the notice is published, filed with
the clerk, is evidence of the facts therein contained. Art. 3451.
"Evrery alteration which shall be made in the names of the
partners, in the nature of the business or in the capital or shares
thereof, or in any other matter specified m the original certificate, shall be deemed a dissolution og the partnership, and
every such partnership which shall in any manner be carried
on after any such alteration shall have been made shall be
deemed a general partnership, unless renewed as a special partnership according to the provisions of the last article." Art.
3453. "The business of the -partnership shall be conducted
under a firm in which the names of the general partners only
shall be inserted, without the addition of the word ' company,'
or any other general term, and if the name of any special
partner be used in such firm, with his privity, he shall be
deemed a general partner." Art. 3454. " Suits in relation to

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

the business of the partnership may be brought and conducted
by and against the general partners in the same manner as if
there were no special partners." Art 3455. "No part of the
sum which any special partner shall have contributed to the
capital stock shall be withdrawn by him, or paid or transferred
to him in the character of dividends, profits or otherwise, at
any time during the continuance of the partnership, but any
partner may annually receive lawful interest on the sum so contributed by him, if the payment of such interest shall not
reduce the original amount of such capital, and if, after the
payment of such interest, any profit shall remain to be divided
he may also receive his portion of such profits." Art. 3456.
"If it shall appear that by the payment of interest or profits
to any special partner the original capital has been reduced,
the partner receiving the same shall be bound to restore the
amount necessary to make good his share of the capital with
interest." Art. 3457.
Article 3460r, which is the subject of much discussion by
counsel, is in these words "Every sale, assignment or transfer
of any property or effects of the partnership made by such
partnership when insolvent or in contemplation of insolvency,
or after, or in contemplation of insolvency of any partner,
with the intent of giving a preference to any creditor of such
partnership or insolvent partner over other creditors of such
partnership, and every judgment confessed, lien created or
security given by any such partnership under the like circumstances and with like intent shall be void as against the creditors of such partnership." Article 3463 is as follows "In
case of the insolvency or bankruptcy of the partnership, no
special partner shall, under any circumstances, be allowed to
claim as creditor until the claims of all other creditors of the
partnership shall be satisfied."
The revision of 1879 was adopted by an-act passed March
17, 1879, the latter act going into effect. July 24, 1879. It
should be here stated that chapter 68 of the Revised 'Statutes
is a reprodubtion, without material change, of the provisions
of the act of May 12, 1846, entitled." An act for the regulation
of limited partnerships." Laws of Texas, 1846, 279.

TRACY v. TUFFLY.
Statement of the Case.

On the 24th of March, 18'79, the legislature passed an
act, entitled "An act in relation to assignments for the
benefit of creditors, and to regulate the same, and the proceedings thereunder." Gen. Laws, Texas, 1879, 57. The
first section of that act provides: "That every assignment
made by an insolvent debtor, or in contemplation of insolvency, for the benefit of his creditors. shall provide, except as
herein otherwise provided, for a distribution of all his real and
personal estate, other than that which is by law exempt from
execution, among all his creditors in proportion to their respective claims, and, however made or expressed, shall have
the effect aforesaid, and shall be so construed to pass all such
estate, whether specified therein or not, and every assignment
shall be proved or acknowledged and certified and recorded in
the same manner as is provided by law in conveyances of real
estate or other property" The second section requires the
debtor to annex to the assignment an inventory showing a
full and true account of all his creditors, their place of residence, the sum due each, the nature and consideration of each
debt, any existing judgment, mortgage, or security for such
debt, and the character of the debtor's estate of every kind
(excepting such as the law exempts from execution) with the
incumbrances thereon. To this schedule must be annexed the
affidavit of the debtor that it is a just and true account to
the best of his knowledge and belief.
The third section, upon which the assignment involved in
this suit rests, is- in these words:
"SECrIO 3. Any debtor, desiring so to do, may make an
assignment for the benefit of such of his creditors only as will
consent to accept their proportional -share of his estate, and
discharge him from their respective claims, and m such case
the benefits of the assignment shall be limited and restricted
to the .creditors consenting thereto, the debtor shall thereupon be and stand discharged from all further liability to such
consenting creditors on account of their respective claims, and
when paid they shall execute and deliver to the assignee for
the debtor a release therefrom." Gen. Laws, Texas, 187.9,

57, 58.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

The ninth section declares that "all property conveyed or
transferred by the assignor, previous to and in contemplation
of the assignment, with the intent or design to defeat, delay
or defraud creditors, or to give preference to one creditor over
another, shall pass to the assignee by the assignment, notwithstanding such transfer."
The remaining sections of the act prescribe the duties of the
assignee, and regulate the administration of the trust.
The third section of the act of 1879 was amended by an act
approved April 7, 1883, so as to provide that "such debtor
shall not be discharged from liabilities to a creditor who does
not receive as much as one-third of the amount due and
allowed in his favor as a valid claim against the estate of such
debtor." Gen. Laws, Texas, 1883, 46.
.M..
George Hoadly (with whom was Mlr Frank S. Burke
on the brief) for plaintiffs in error.
I. The defendant in error, Louis Tuffly, is, I respectfully
submit, in this dilemma. He brings this suit as assignee of
W T. Tuffly, a special partnership composed of W T. Tuffily),
general partner, and Christine E. McLin, special partner, but
he is in this dilemma. If he assert that he is the assignee of
a special partnership, then the assignment is void under section 3460 of the Revised Statutes of Texas. If he claim as
assignee of a general partnership, he is confronted with these
difficulties frst, that only one of the partners executed the
assignment, the other being enrolled as a creditor to a large
amount, and secondly, that the rulings of the court proceeded
upon the theory that the partnership was special, not general,
and cannot be sustained, if the conclusion be reached that
this was really a general partnership.
II. The question of the legality of the assignment was presented by the general demurrer. The assignment is mcorporated into the petition, and is upon its face illegal. .The demurrer should have been sustained on the ground that the
plaintiff counted on an assignment, which was expressly forbidden by the laws of the State of Texas. It admits the in-

TRACY vu TUFFLY.
Argument for Plamtiffs m Error.

solvency of the firm, that is, that it is unable to pay its debts
in the ordinary course of -business. Toof v 3Martin, 13 Wall.
40, Buchanan v SmA4 16 Wall 277. It provides for a
preference of a part of the creditors (those who shall become
parties to it) over the others in the distribution of the assets.
This is expressly forbidden by section 3460 of the :Revised
Statutes of Texas relating to limited partnerships, which is
not repealed or affecte by the act of March 24, 1879. The
former relates to limited partnerships, the latter to general
partnerships.
It may or may not be reasonable and just to require the
creditors of an individual or of a general commercial partnership, for whose benefit an assignment has been made, to elect
between taking the benefits of the assignment with release of
debtor, or retaining the liability of the debtor and giving up
all clain upon the assigned fund. Clearly, this would not be
just where no such choice is given to the creditor. To render
this fair to the creditor, he must have the right to elect between
the two resources, either to take his share in the fund, or to
hold the liability of the debtor. In case of a limited partnership he has no such alternative, for, in the jrst place, he origmally trusted, so far as the special partner is concerned, only
the fund. He never has had and cannot retain the liability of
the special partner. His alternative is not between a share m
the fund and retaunng the liability of the partners, but between
a share in the fund which has already been pledged to lm,
and retaimng the liability, not of the partners, but of the
general partner only
For this reason it may well be supposed that when the legislature of Texas un~dertook to pass a
general assignment law, they did not provide in express words,
-or otherwise, for the case of limited partnership. This had
already been done, and, therefore, needed words of express
amendment or repeal, if it were their intention to make a
change. As they did not intend to make a change, they used
no such language.
The act Qf -March 24, 18,79, contains no repealing clause. It
is true it was passed on the 24th of March, 1879, while the
Revised Statutes were reenacted on the 21st of February, 1879,

OCTOBER TERMA, 1889.
Argument for Plaintiffs m Error.

but, as there are no repealing words in it of any kind, shape
or form whatever, the repeal of section 3460 is, if it be such,
by implication only But repeals, by implication are not
favored. Harford v Undted States, 8 Oranch, 109, Wood v
United States, 16 Pet. 342, 362, .eCool v Smith, 1 Black,
459, Ex _arte Yerger, 8 Wall. 85, 105 , State v Stoll, 17 Wall.
425, 430, Arthur v Homer, 96 U. S. 137, 140, Exparte Crow
-Dog, 109 U S. 556, 570, Chew Heong v United States, 112
U S. .536, 550:
Both laws took effect eo tnstanti, so that the act of March
24 could not have the effect to repeal the act of February
21 of the same year. Both laws went into force on the 24th
day of July On that day, at the same moment, they became
laws of the State of Texas. The mandate of the State of
Texas, taking effect, and therefore speaking legislatively, not
from the date when it was passed by the legislature, but from
the date when, under the constitution, it took effect, became
law eo tnstanti with the act passed March 24, 1879. The two
therefore are not in conflict, cannot be in conflict. Each is in
force according to the fitness of its subject matter one as
regulating limited partnerships only, the other as applicable
to assignments made by individuals, commercial partnerships
and corporations.
III. But if otherwise, and this were a general partnership,
W T. Tuffly had no authority to make this assignment.
His sister, Mrs. Ohristine E. McLin, is not shown to have
been absent or incapable of action, and the assignment itself,
being an act out of the common course, not one for which the
firm was formed, was not within the implied powers granted
to Tuffly, as it certainly was not within the express powers
which the articles of copartnership confer. -M1oore v Steele,
67 Texas, 435, Fore v Hitson, 70 Texas, 517, In re Lawrence,
5 Fed. Rep. 349; Bank v Carrollton Railroad, 11 Wall.
624.
IV The assignment did not purport to convey the firm
property or the individual property of Mrs. McLin. Such
assignment, made by an ordinary, commercial partnership, and
not including all the property of the assignors, both firm and

TRACY -v. TUFFLY.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

individual, was held by tie Supreme Court of Texas to be
void in Dooo v Fish, 58 Texas, 164:. See, also, Cofm v
-Douglass,61 Texas, 406.
V The special partnership was invalid under the laws of
Texas. Article 3442 of the Revised Statutes of Texas requires
the special partner's contribution to be "in actual cash payments." In this case this was manifestly not complied with.
The contribution of Mrs. MoLin was simply of the amount
which her deceased hus! and had owned in the copartnership.
The court was requested to charge upon this subject, but
refused to give the charge, and the defendants excepted.
This charge is. long, but it includes nothing which breaks .its
force or would justify the claim that any part of it might
be properly refused because too extensive, and not merely
limited to the point now in question. [It will be found in the
margin.1 ]
I I It is clained by the plaintiff, Louis Tuffly, that the copartnership or
the firm of W T. Tuffly -was a limited partnership composed of W T.
Tuffly as 'eneral partner, and Christine E. McLin as special partner. It is
-claimed by defendants that Tuffly and said Christine E. McLin were both
general partners, and that said Christine ME.McLin was a general and not
a special partner, for the reason, among others alleged by them, that she
-did not comply with the requirements of -the law governing limited partnerships.
"On this question you are instructed that limited partnerships may conlist of one or more persons who shall be called the general partners, and of
3ne or more persons who shall contribute in actual cash payments a specific
sum as capital to the common stock, who shall be called special partners.
They are also required to make and severally sign a certificate, which,
among other things, shall contain the amount of capital which each special
partner shall have contributed to the common stock.
", This certificate, after having been acknowledged by the parties in iie
samemanner as conveyances of land are acknowledged, shall be filed in te
-office of the clerk of the county court of the county in which the principdl
place of business of the partnership shall be situated. At or before the
time of filing this certificate the sum specified in the certificate to have
been contributed by the special partner in the common stock must have
been actually and in good faith paid in cash; and if this is not so actually
and in good faith paid in cash at or before said ing, then all persons interested in such partnership shall be liable for all the engagements thereof
as general pattners, and no payment into the iund thereafter by the special
partner can relieve him from the consequences of failure to pay within the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Counsel for Defendant in Error.

The last sentence of this charge is justified and required by
Donoko v Fish, 58 Texas, 164, Coftin v Douglas, 61 Texas,
406, and Shioe Company v Ferrell,68 Texas, 638.
VI. Other unlawful preferences were created by this assignment (1) To Mrs. MeLin for borrowed money, $7798, (2) If
it is to be treated as an assignment by the special partnership
and the individual jointly, it is a conveyance which makes
hotch-potch of the partnership and individual property, and
appropriates them ratably to the partnership and individual
creditors, contrary to law Such attempt is void. If successful it would establish preference of the individual creditors.
But this would render the whole assignment void. Converse
v M i cee, 14 Texas, 20, Rogers v Nfichols, 20 Texas, 719,
Warren v Wallis, 38 Texas, 225, De -Forest v Miller, 4a
Texas, 34.
VII. The limited partnership was not perfected by publication according to law
-Mr TV C. Oliver -fordefendant in error.
time above specified; so also the sum to be contributed by the special partner must have been actually and in good faith paid in cash, and cannot be
contributed in property of any kind, however valuable it may be. If the
proof shows you that Mrs. McLin's deceased husband, R. W McLin, had a.
net interest, at or about the time of his death, in the firm of R. W McLin
& Co. and that, in consideration of the arrangement by W T. Tuffly for
full setiement of all claims against the said firm of R. W McLin & Co. apd
the obtaining of a release of the estate of R. W MIcLin from liability on
account of the same, assigned and transferred to W T. Tuffly allthe goods,
wares, and merchandise and other properties of said firm, and that the interest so conveyed constituted her contribution to the common stock to,
make her a special partner, then you are instructed that this would not be
such contribution of actual cash as the law requires or contemplates, no
matter what the outward form of the transaction was, and in such case
Mrs. McLin would have thereupon become a general partner and liable as
such, and no advance, loan, or payment thereafter made by her to W T.
Tuffly or to the firm would change her status from that of a general partner, and if you so find, then you are instructed that it was essential to
the validity of the assignment that she should have joined in it and conveyed to the assignee her individual property not exempt, and that as she
did not do so the assignment would be illegal and void, and that your verdict should be for the defendants."

TRACY v. TUFFLY.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN,

after stating the case as above re-

ported, delivered the opimon of the court.
1. We have seen that article 3460 of the Revised Statutes
of Texas declares void, as against the creditors of a limited
partnership, every sale, assignment or transfer of any of its
property or effects, made when such partnership was insolvent
or contemplated insolvency, and with the intent to give a
preference of some over others of its creditors. The first
proposition of the defendants is that the assignment to the
plaintiff of March 23, 1885- which was confessedly made. by
a partnership unable to meet its debts as they matured, and,
therefore, insolvent, Cunnsngkani v .Yorton, 125 U. S. -77,
'90-was void, as giving a preference to consenting creditors
over those who did not consent. This contention is based
upon the assumption that the act of March 24, 1819, as
amended by that of 1883, has no application to limited partnerships; in other words, insolvent individual debtors and
insolvent general partnerships may, but insolvent limited
partnerships cannot, assign their property for the benefit,
primarily, of only such creditors as will consent to take their
proportional share of the effects assigned, and discharge the
assignor or assignors. The bare statement of this proposition
suggests the inquiry, why should the legislature make any
such discrimination against limited partnerships 2 The same
considerations of public policy that require legislation under
which an insolvent individual debtor and an insolvent general
partnership may turn over their property to such creditors as
will release their debts, would seem to have equal force in the
case of limited partnerships that are insolvent or contemplate
insolvency
Counsel for the defendants suggests that the
reason for the discrimination -which, he insists, is made by
the statutes of Texas - is, that the creditors of a limited partnership trust only the liability of the general partner, and the
fund contributed by the special partner, and when they lose
recourse upon that fund they have recourse only to the liability
of the general partner. We do not perceive, in this statement
of the relations between a limited partnership and its credi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

tors, any just ground upon which to rest the supposed discrimination.
The argument; that the statutes of 1879 and 1883 have no
application to limited partnerships, is based upon these propositions. That those enactments do not, in terms, repeal or
modify article 3460 of the Revised Civil Statutes, that repeals
by implication merely are not favored, that article 3460 constitutes a part of a title in the revision, which -relates -as did
the act of 1846, from which 'it was taken - exclusively to
limited partnerships; and as the recent statutes do not, m
terms, refer to limited partnerships, the duty of the court is to
so construe the earlier and later statutes as, if possible, to give
full effect to each according to the reasonable import of its
words, a result, it is contended, that cannot be attained, unless
the acts of 1879 and 1883 are interpreted as not embracing
assignments by limited partnerships.
We have not been referred to any decision of the Supreme
Court of Texas sustaining this view, and we cannot adopt any
such interpretation. The recent enactments cover, substantially, the whole subject of assignments by insolvent debtors
for the benefit of their creditors. The first section of the act
of 1879 provides, as we have seen, that every assignment by
an insolvent debtor, for the benefit of his creditors, shall provide for the distribution of all his real and personal estate,
other than that exempted from execution, among all of his.
creditors, and, however made or expressed, the assignment
shall have the effect, and be construed, to pass all such estate.
This acconiplishes all and more than was accomplished by
article 3460 of the Revised Statutes. Will it be contended
that this section applies only to assignments by individual
debtors, and by general partnerships, and not to assignments
by limited partnerships ? That section, in terms, embraces
"every assignment" by insolvent debtors for the benefit of
their creditors. And the third section, enabling the debtor to
surrender his estate for the exclusive benefit of creditors who
will take their proportional share, and discharge him, embraces
the case of "any debtor" who is insolvent or contemplates
insolvency The object of the act of 1879 was to encourage

TRAOY v. TUFFLY.
Opimon of the Court.

insolvent debtors to make an assignment of their property for
the benefit of creditors.

Cunningham v iYorton, 125 TT. S.

77, 81. It establishes a complete system for the admnimstration
of the estates of insolvent debtors conveyed for the benefit of
creditors, and the mere fact that it does not, in terms, modify
article 3460 of the Revised Statutes, or the section of the same
purport m the act of 1846, will not justify the courts in excepting from its operation the cases of debtors constitutmg a limited
partnership, and including within its provisions, debtors constituting a general partnership. The special object of its third section was to open the way for the discharge of insolvent persons
from their debts. Creditors who would not consent to their
discharge were left to -stand upon their rights, and take the
chance of collecting their debts in full, if the debtor got upon
his feet, and was fortunate enough to acquire other property.
The statute is remedial m-its character and should be liberally
construed so as to give effect to the legislative will. And
while it is true that repeals by implication are not favored by
the courts, it is settled that, without express. words of repeal,
a previous statute will be held to be modified by a subsequent
one, if the latter was plainly intended to cover the whole subject embraced by both, and to prescribe the only rules in
respect to that subject that are to govern. Unsted States v.
Tynen, 11 Wall.88, 95, Cook County NationaZ Bank v. United
States, 107 T. S. 445, 451. We are of opion, therefore, that
in so far as article 3460 forbids a limited partnership, when it
is insolvent or contemplates insolvency, from making an assignment of its property for the benefit only of such creditors as
will accept their proportional share of the proceeds of tlie
effects assigned, and discharge their claims -the share received being sufficient to pay one-third of the debts of tht
consenting creditors-it is modified by the act of 1879, as
amended by that of 1883.
2. If in error upon this point, the defendants contend that
Tuffly had no authority in his own name to execute an assignment of the firm's property for the benefit of creditors, it not
appearing that Mrs. MNcLin was absent, or incapable of acting
in the matter, and the assignment being out of the common

OCTOBER TERM. 1889
Opmlon of the Court.

course. While there is some conflict in the adjudged cases as
to the circumstances under which one partner may assign the
entire effects of his firm for the benefit of creditors, the Supreme Court of Texas, in Graves v Hall, 32 Texas, 665, sustained the authority of one partner to make, in good faith,
in the name of his firm, an assignment of the partnership
property for the benefit of creditors. Besides, under the law
of that State, in the case of limited partnerships, the general
partners only are authorized to transact business and sign for
the partnership, and bind the same, and suits in relation to
the business of the partnership may be brought and conducted
by and against the general partners, in the same manner as if
there were no special partners. Rev Stats. Texas, §§ 3444,
3445.
3. It is also contended that the assignment does not purport to convey the firm property or the individual property of
Mrs. McLm, and was, for that reason, void under the decisions
in .Donoho v Fish, 58 Texas, 164, and Coffin v Douglass, 61
Texas, 406. In those cases it was held that an assignment by
partners which did not purport to pass title to all the property
owned by the partnership, and by the members thereof in
their separate rights, and not exempted from forced sale,
could not be sustained as a valid assignment under the act of
March 24, 1879, and would interpose no obstacle to creditors
collecting their debts by the usual process.
We do not assent to the defendants' interpretation of the
assignment. It is inaptly expressed, but was intended to convey, and does convey, to the assignee all of the effects of the
firm of "'W T. Tuffly," as well as the individual property of
W T. Tuffly There was, it is true, proof tending to show that
Mrs. McLin had individual property not exempt from executxqn, which was not embraced m the assignment. But the
cases of ]Donoho v Fish and Coffln v Douglass, were not cases
of limited partnerships, and do not decide that an assignment
under the act of 1879 must embrace the individual property
of a special partner. The statute authorizing the formation
of limited partnerships exempts a special partner from liability
for the debts of the partnership beyond the fund contributed

TRACY v. TUFFtY:-)
Opinion of the Court:

by him to the capital. The assignment in question covers
the interest of Mrs. IoLmn as special partner, and need not
have conveyed her individual property, which could-not have
been taken for the debts of the firm.
4. It is contended that an unlawful preference was given
by the assignment in this That Mrs. McLin was named in
the- schedule attached to the assignment as a creditor to the
extent of $7798 for borrowed money This, it is claimed,
makes the assignment void under the provision that "in case
of the insolvency or bankruptcy of the partnership, no special
partner shall, under any circumstances, be allowed to claim as
creditor until the claims of all other creditors of the parties
shill be satisfied." Texas Civil Statutes, Art. 3463. We are
of opinion that a deed of ass-gnment, under iie Texas statute,
is not void because the verified schedule annexed to it may
embrace a debt that cannot be paid ratably with the claims of
other creditors. In Pant v E wlsuy, 68 Texas, 1, 8, 6, it was
held that an assignment which on its face preferred some
-creditors over others, in violation of the 18th section of the
act of 1879, was not, therefore, void. The court said "By
the express terms of that section the attempted preference
and not the assignment is void. The estate is still administered under the act, and is distributed among all the creditors
in proportion to their respective claims, notwithstanding the
attempted.preference." Again "All that is necessary is,.that
the assignment be made for the benefit of creditors by an insolvent, or one contemplating insolvency, and the statute dictates everything requisite to be performed in order that the
property conveyed may be distributed according to its own
provisions, whether the assignor has so requested or not.
Should the assignor prescribe a course to be pursued by the
trustees different from that directed by the statute, his wishes
would not be respected." See, also, _MoCart v -Maddox, 68
Texas, 456, to the same general effect.
5. It is contended that the publication of the notice of the
formation of the partnership between Tuffiy and Mrs. McLin
was so defective that the partnership did not come into lcga
existence as a limited partnership. The certificate of partnerVOL. CXxV-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

ship contained, substantially, all that was required by article
3445. It was duly verified by the general partner and was duly
registered m the proper office. The required certificate having
been made, acknowledged, filed and recorded, and the-required
affidavit having been filed, the limited partnership was, under
article 3449, to be deemed as formed. But article 3450 requires that the partners shall publish the terms of the partnership or registry in such newspaper as shall be designated by
the clerk in whose office .the registry shall be inade, and if
such publication be not made, the partnership shall be deemed
general. Now, the point is made that the "terms" of the
partnership were not set forth in the newspaper notice, and,
consequently, the partnership was to be deemed general, in
which event no valid assignment could be made, unless Mrs.
McLin joined m it with Tuffly
Precisely what the statute means by the "terms" of the
partnership is not clear. The notice did state that W T.
Tuffly was the general partner, and Mrs. McLin the special
partner, and that the latter had contributed to the common
stock the sum of $6419.36. And it disclosed the fact that the
certificate of the partnersip had been executed and recorded.
Without deciding whether the notice sufficiently disclosed the
terms of the partnership, it is clear that the legal existence of
the partnership did not depend upon the notice or its contents. The only effect of the failure to make the required
publication was that "the partnership shall be deemed general." But that is immaterial in view of the finding of the
jury in respect to certain facts, constituting an estoppel
against the defendants, and which were submitted to them by
the instructions. To these facts, and the instructions relating
to them, we will next refer.
6. The jury were instructed "If you shall find from the
evidence that the limited partnership as stated and claimed by
plaintiff was recognized as such in its inception by the three
attaching creditors, defendants herein, and likewise during its
existence was dealt with and credited as such by them, as well
as sued-therefor and its property atfached as such after its
assignment, and that its other creditors also treated and dealt

TRACY v. TUFFLY.
Opimnon of the Court.

with it, and accepted its assignment to plaintiff as such,
and that Mrs. McLti, named therein as the special or limited
partner, and W T. Tuffly, named therein as the general partner,
and whose name constituted the firm name, always treated it
as a special or limited partnership, and that Mrs. McLin loaned
it money as claimed, and subsequently sued the plaintiff as its
assignee therefor, then and in such case you likewise may deem
the same a limited partnership and regard the assignment to
plaintiff as valid.
"1If you shall also find that the same was made at a time
when the IW T. Tuffly' paper was maturing faster than it
could be met in the ordinary and usual course of business, and
that such assignment was made in good faith in contemplation
of insolvency, and if you shall further find that the defendant
Tracy, as United States marshal, seized the property so assigned,
under and by virtue of the attachments Qf the three attachment
creditors who have made themselves defendants herein, then
you will find. for the plaintiff herein as against defendant
Tracy and the sureties on his official bond and the three firms
of attaching creditors for the -value of the goods as they were
at the time .and place of their seizure under such writs of attachment, such value to be ascertained from all the facts
detailed in evidence before you.
" But if you shall otherwise find as to the facts constituting
the rights of the parties as herembefore set forth, then and in
such case your verdict will be for the defendants."
According to the bills of exceptions there was evidence
tending to prove all the -facts stated in these instructions.
The attaching creditors, with other creditors, described them
in the release executed by them at about ,the time of the formation of the limited partnership as constituting a limited
partnership, in. which W T. Tuffiy was the general, and Mrs.
McLm the special, partner. If the attaching creditors thus
recognized and dealt with W T. Tuffly and Mrs. McLin as a
limited partnership, they are estopped from insisting that there
was no such partnership, or that the assignment was not -alid
as an assignment by a limited partnership. They cannot be
permitted thereafter to raise the objection that the terms of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the partnership were not sufficiently stated in the published
notice of its formation. Those terms were fully set forth in
the recorded certificate of the partnership.
But as the defendants contended that their recognition of
the limited partnership 'was in ignorance of material facts
bearing upon that question, and therefore they were not
estopped, the court, at their instance, further instructed the
jury
"If the proof shows you that Mrs. M6Lm never in fact contributed the amount to the common stock necessary to make
her a special partner, or that she afterwards altered and diminished the amount of her capital stock, and that these facts,
or either of them, were unknown to the. attaching creditors.
who are defendants herein, at the time they dealt with the
firm and sued W T. Tuffly, then you are instructed that neither the recognition and dealing by them with Tuffly and Mrs.
McLin as a limited partnership, nor the suing of W T. Tuffly
in ignorance of said facts, estops or precludes "them,or any of
the defendants from showing that said partnersnip was never
in fact legally formed as a limited partnership, for the reason
above stated, nor from showing that it afterwards, by reason
of the alteration and diminution of Mrs. McLin's capital stock,
was rendered a general partnership."
This instruction gave the defendants the full benefit of all
the facts upon which they could rely to defeat the estoppel
referred to in the other instruction.
7. A considerable part of the discussion at the bar, and of
the briefs of counsel, was directed to the question whether the
court erred in refusing to give to the jury a certain charge
which was prepared and submitted by the defendants. So
much of that charge as constituted an argument rather than
an instruction in behalf of the defendants may be omitted
from this opinion. The material part of it was to the effect
that if Mrs. McLin's husband had a net interest, at or about
the time of his death, in the firm of R. W McLin & Co., and
that ih consideration of the arrangement by W T. Tuffly, for
full settlement of all claims against the firm, and the obtaining of a release'of R. W MoLin's estate from liability on ac-

TRACY v. TUFFLY.
Opinon of the Court.

count of the same, she assigned and transferred to W T.
Tuffly all the goods, wares, merchandise and other property
of the firm, "and that the interest so conveyed constitutedher contribution to the common stock to make her a special
partner, this would not be such contribution of actual cash as
the law requires or dontemplates, no matter what the outward
form of the transaction was, and in such case Mrs. McLin
would have thereupon become a general partner and liable as
such, and no advance, loan or payment thereafter made by
her to W T. Tuffly or to the firm would change her status
from that of a general partner, and if you so find, then you
are instructed that it was essential to the validity of the assignment that she should have joined m it and conveyed to
the assignee her individual property not exempt. and that as
she did not do so the assignment would be illegal and void,
and that your verdict should be for the defendants."
We shall not extend this opinion by a discussion of the several propoitions embodied in this instruction. -Itis sufficient
to say" 1,.The issues as to whether Mrs. McLin mad6-the contribution to the common stock necessary to make her a special
partner, or whether there was an alteration or diminution of
her -capital stock, were fairly submitted to the jury in the
instruction that the .court gave at the instance of the defendants, 2, The instruction now in question was in conflict with
the first one given by the court upon its own motion, if given,
it might have resulted in a verdict for the defendants, although
the jury may have found that the partnership between Tuffly
and M s. McLm was recognized by the attaching and other
creditors, in its inception, and was dealt with by all of them
during its existence, as a limited partnership, in which Mrs.
McLin was known by them to be. the special partner, and
W T. Tuffiy the general partner.
Many other instructions were asked by the defendants
which the court refused to grant. But it is unnecessary to
discuss them, as what has been said is sufficient to indicate
our opinion touching the essential issues in the case.
Upon the whole case we are of opinion that no error was
committed by the court below, and the judgment must be
Afflrned.

