uuTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

YJw result s that the appeal must be dismtused, and -itss so
ordered.
MR. CHIEF

JUSTICE FULLER,

having been of counsel in this

case, did not sit in it or take any part in its decision.

SMALL v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD

COMPANY
APPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
No. 226. Submitted March 21, 1890.-Decided March 31,1890.

When the record is not filed m this court at the term succeeding the allowance of an appeal, the appeal ceases to have any operation or effect, and
the case stands as if it had never been allowec

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

M-f John G IWoolley for appellant.
Xr W P Clough, 3fr A. H. Garland and Mr H J -May
for appellee.
Mi. CHIEF

JUSTICE

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
This appeal must be dismissed for want of jurisdiotion.
Small filed his bill m the District Court of the Fourth Judicial
District, of the State of Minnesota, whence the cause was subsequentlv removed into the Circuit Court of the United States
tor the District of Minnesota, and, upon hearing, resulted on
the 24:th day of June, 1884, m a decree dismissing the complainant's bill, and rendering judgment in favor of the defendant for its costs to be taxed. On the 25th day of June, 1884,
the complainant prayed an appeal to this court, which was
granted. On the 21st day of May, 1886, complainant filed an

HILL v. MERCHANTS' INS. CO.
Syllabus.

appeal bond and a citation was issued, returnable at tne October term, 1886, dated April 30, 1886. The record herein was
filed October 19, 1886. The only appeal which from the
record before us appears tohave been prayed and allowed was
that of the 25th day of June, 1881.
But, as we have said many times before, inasmuch as the
record was not filed at the term succeeding the allowance of
the appeal, that appeal ceased to have any operation or effect,
and the case stood as 'if it had never been allowed. There
was no allowance of an appeal after that, and when the record
was filed on the 19th day of October, 1886, this was not done
in pursuance of an appeal still in forcei nor could an appeal
-hen have -been allowed, as two years had expired from the
ate of the final decree. This appeal was not "taken" as
'ovided, and we axe, therefore, compelled to dismiss it.
Vedit Company v ArkTansas Central Railway, 128 U. S. 258,
.hardsonv. Green, 130 U. S. 104,. Evans v State Yationa,
'e. nk,

ante, 330.
AfpeaZ dismssedfoor want ofjurwtdiction.

HILL v. MERCHANTS' MUTUAL INSURANCE COMIPAIY
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE -STATE OF MSSOUR.
No. 215. Submitted March 19,1890.-Decided March 31,1890..

A state statute which confers upon a judgment 'creditor of a corporation,
when execution on a judgment against the corporation is returned unsatisfied, the power .to summon m a stockholder who has not fully paid
the subscription to his stock, and obtaan judgment and execution against
him for the amount so unpsid, in no way increases the liability of the
stockbolder to pay that amount; and, inasmuch as he was before then
liable to an action at law by the corporation to recover from him such
unpaid amount at law, as well as to a suit in equity; in common with other
simar stockholders, to compel contribution for the benefit of creditors,
no substantial right of the stockholder is violated.

