OCTOBER TERMK, 1889.
Ot'atement of the Case.

some work after the aoinomtment of a receiver, there is also
coitradictory tes~lmonSr And even in that part of the testimony which tends to show that work was done after the
appointment of a receiver, there is nothing to indicate how
much was done, or whether it was done by the authority and
direction of the receiver, or simply in completion of a contract
theretofore entered into with the company
These are all the facts we deem it necessary to mention.
The decree of the Circuit Court will be
Reversed, wzmth vnstructonsforfurtherproceedingstn accordance with the mtews herean expresed.

DE WITT v. BERRY
ERROR TO THE cIRCuIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 173. Argued January 7, 8,1890. - Decided March 17, 1890.

If a contract of sale is in writing and contains no warranty parol evidenee
is not admissible to add a warranty.
If a contract of sale in writing contains a warranty, parql evidence is inadmissible to show a warranty inconsistent with it.
An express warranty of quality in a sale excludes any implied warranty
that the articles sold were merchantable.
A warranty cannot be inpliedin a Sale when there is an express warranty
of qualitv accompanied by the delivery and acceptance of a sample, as
such.
The party who seeks to establish that words are used in a contract in a
different acceptation from their ordinary sense must prove it by clear,
distinct and irresistible evidence.
When parties have reduced their contract to writing, without any uncertainty as to the object or extent of the engagement, evidence of antecedent conversations between them in regard to it is inadmissible.

Tis action was commenced in the Marine Court of the
city of New York, to recover $1687.51, alleged to be due
piaiutiffs, for a quantity of varnislP, etc., sold and delivered
to defendants between November 9, 1881, and May 15, 1882.
It was duly removed into the Circuit Court of the United

DE WITT v. BERRlY.
Statement of the Case.

States for the Southern District of New York, on.the petition
of the defendants, the plaintiffs being citizens -of Michigan,
the defendants citizens of New York, and the .amount, sought
to be recovered, exclusive of costs, exceeding $500.
The. record appears to coniam substantially all the evidence. It shows the material facts to be as follows
'On the 2Ath of June, 1881, a contract was made -between
the parties in these.terms
"Bnoomyw, N. Y., June 24tA, 1881.
We hereby agree to deliver to Messrs. HI. J De Witt &
Son, at their factory in Brooklyn in N: Y., eighty (80) barrels
of japan and twenty (20) barrels of varnish within one year
from date, these goods to be exactly the same quality as we
make for the De Witt Wire Cloth Company of New York,
and as per sample bbls. delivered.
"Turpentine copal varnish, at q5c. per gallon.
"
"Turpentine japan dryer, at 55c. "
"Each shipment to consist of eight (8) barrels japan. and
two (2) barrels varmsh, to be made once a month, commencing September next.
"Terms on each shipment, six months, without interest.
"BE-imY

BiOT'ais.

"per A. HoorEii, Manager
"We hereby accept the above proposition.
"J H. DE WiTT & SoN
"Brooklyn, June 4th, '81."
At the time stipulated, The defendants in error, Berry Bros.,
delivered the proper number of barrels of varnish and of
dryer, but the plaintiffs in eror claim that the dryer did not
conform to*the contract, m quality They not only resist the
payment .of a balance due of the purchase-money, but also
present a cross-demand for $17,500 for alleged 'reach of
contract. The precise point of controversy is as to the rel-ative quantities of turpentine and of benzine in the dryer.
It appears that plaintiffs in error were manufacturers of wire

OCTOBER TERM],

1889.

Statement of the Case.

gauze for screens, etc., and bought the dryer to use in their
factory, and that the plaintiffs in error knew of these facts.
The japan dryer and the copal varnish were used to mix with
the paint that was put on wire goods. The process was that
the wire cloth ran through a trough filled with the paint so
mixed, and passed between felt rollers into a drying chamber
heated by steam to 140 degrees. At the farther end of such
chamber the cloth passed into the cold air. The rolls then
stood four or five days, after which they were rolled into
tight rolls, wrapped, and put into the storehouse. The plaintiffs in error allege that the paint and varnish, in this case,
were adulterated by the excessive use of benzine in their
manufacture, and that for that reason the paint did not
adhere to the wire cloth, but scaled off.
Plaintiffs in error commenced using the dryer and varnish
in question about their business in August, 1881, but the
goods prepared with them did not, in the ordinary course of
business, reach the consumers until May, 1882. It was 6hen
that plaintiffs in error first discovered the defect -the composition of the goods being unknown to them, and only
discoverable either by a chemical analysis or by the results of
use. In the fall of 1882 large quantities of the wire cloth
were returned because the paint came off, and the balance
that plaintiffs in error had on hand unsold proved to be unsalable for the sailie reason, and had to be-cleaned off and
repainted, there being some 3,500,000 square feet damaged
one-half cent per square foot, or $17,500.
Plaintiffs in error further claimed, that, under the coatract,
the defendants in error were obliged to furnish articles of a
grade that commercially answered i o the description of "turpentine copal varnish," and "turpentine japan dryer," and
that such grades were commercially known. That the articles
so known contain either very little or no benzine, and- are
made of turpentine, whereas, if made of beuzine, without
turpentine, they a - called in tradp a "benzine copal varnish"
and a "benzine japan dryer," and if they coiitain half benzine and half turpentine, they are called a "turpentine and
benzine japan dryer," or a "turpentine and copal varnish."

DE WITT v. BERRY.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

They clained further that the defendants ii error had fraudulently substituted inferior goods for those sold, that whereas,
by the description in the bill of sale, they were to have received
goods with little or no benzine, they were furnished with goods
which, on analysis, were shown to have 38 parts of benzine to
6J of turpentine, and were known to. the trade. as "he nzine
goods." The defendants in error, on the other hand, maintained
that the contract did not call for goods known to the trade as
"commercial turpentine" goods, for two reasons (1) By the
very terms of the contract the quality was agreed to be tested
by a different standard, which was, that the goods sold were
to be "exactly the same quality as we make for the De Witt
Wire Cloth Company of New York, and as per sample bbls.
delivered;" .and (2) because there was no such standard of
uniform manufacture and terminology in the trade, as to these
goods, as was claimed by the plaintiffs in error, they themselves having discovered that -their process was bad, and
afterwards changed it.
It appears further from the record that in a previous contract between the defendants in error and the De Witt Wire
Cloth Company-not the plaintiffs in error.-a stipulation
had been inserted that the goods should be "the best of their
kind, and equal to those formerly furnished.1" Plaintiffs in
error maintained that this contract of quality is; by reference,
a part of the contract. This view the court rejected.
In the course of the trial there were several exceptioins taken to
the introduction, or the refusal to permit -theintroduction, of ew-.
deuce. The plaintiffs in error also made several exceptions to
the charges as given, and to the refusals to charge.as requested.
The trial resulted in a verdict and judgment for the defendants in error for the sum of $217,7.57, being the full amount of
the demand and costs, to review which judgment thif writ of
error was sued out. The .plaintiffs in error claimed by their
assignments that the court in the trial belpw committed sixteen different errors.
.Mr Mason f" Ty er (with whom was Ar Henry Edw'in
Treman) for pl.mtiffs in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

I. Under the contract in this case defendants in error were
bound to deliver articles that answered to the commercial description "turpentine copal varnish" and "turpentine japan
dryer." NTichol v Godts, 10 Exch. 191, Josling v Xingqford,
13 C. B. (N. S.) 447, Wktte v iMiller, 71 N. Y 118, -Hawkins
v Pemberton, 51 N. Y 198, Henshaw v Robtns, 9 Met. 83,
S. C. 43 Am. Dec. 367.
I. The whole -controversy in the case at bar centred around
the question whether the goods that defendants in error delivered to plaintiffs in error werelor were not "turpentine" goods.
III. It was error in the court to refuse to charge the jury
as asked for in the request recited in the firk assignment of
error, to wit, that the evidence showed without contradiction
that goods compounded of an equal quantity of turpentine
and benzine are commercially designated and known in trade
as "turpentine and benzine," or "union" goods, and the court
also erred in the same direction in stating that -Mr. Wood
testified that an article -of which the liquid portion is half
turpentine and half benzine is commercially known as "turpentine japan," as stated in the second assignment of error.
See Parks v Ross, 11 How 362, Toland v 8prague, 12 ?et.
300, Schuckardt v Allens, 1 Wall. 359, .Merchants'Bank v
State Bank, 10 Wall. 604, 665, -Marton County v Clark, 94
U S. 278.
IV The court erred in refusing to allow plaintiffs in error
to introduce evidence tending to show that the article which
was the subject of the controversy in this case was not a
merchantable article, as indicated in the fourth assignment of
error, and also in refusing to charge, as requested by plaintiffs in their sixth, seventh and eighth requests, that in order
to comply with their contract, defendants in error must have
delivered to plaintiffs in error a fairly merchantable and salable article of turpentine japan and turpentine varnish, as
indicated in the fifth, sixth and seventh assignments of error.
_Mody v Gregson, L. R. 4 Ex. 49, Hoe v Sanborn, 21 N. Y 552,
-S. C. 78 Am. Dec. 163, -Kellogg Brzdge Co. v Hamilton, 110
U. S. 108,116, 2ao]-arlandv Taylor, L. R. 1 Scotch App. 245.
V The court erred in refusing to allow plaintiffs in error

DE WITT" v. BERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

to prove the difference in value between their cloth as painted
with the Berry Brothers' material and the same cloth painted
with a fair article of turpentine japan and'turpentine varnish,
as indicated in the eighth, ninth,. tenth and eleventh assignments of error. .Dushane v. Benedict, 120U. S. 630, 636, Dart
v. -Lazimeer,107 N. Y 664, White v i
71 N. Y 118,
7Nle,
Pasrngerv Thorburn, 34 N. Y 634, s. C. 90 Am. Dec. 753,
Xilburn v. Bellonz, 39 N. Y 53, s. c. 100 Am. Dec. 403,
-lich v Wetherbee, 20 Wisconsin, 392, _Xasterton v The -Mayor,
7Hill, 61, S. C.42 Am. Dec. 38, Grffln v Col.er, 16 N. Y
489, S. C. 69 Am. Dec. 718, fe ssmore v. _Hew York ShotOo.,
40 N. Y 422, Wakeman v Wkeeler-& Wilson .M:'g Co., 101
N. Y 205.
Ur JohAn . Parsons,for defendants in error, eited: Northwestern Ins. Co. v uskegon Bank, 122 U. S. 501, Sands v
Taylor, 5 Johns. 395, 5. C. 4 Am.Dec. 374, Beck-v ShelIdon,
45 OT. Y 365, Parzson v Zee, 2 East, 314, Jones v Just,
L. R. 3 Q. B. 197, Chanter v. Hlopkins, 4 X. & W 398,
Mumford v McPherson, 1 Johns. 414, Fox v Hazelton, 10
Pick. 275, Gale v. ]Yev? York Central Railroad, 13"Hun, 1.
m. JusTIcE TLA-&x delivered the opinion of the court.

'It is not necessary to examine the sixteen assignments of.
error in detail. When analyzed they.are resolved into one or
other of these three propositions
(1). That under a contract for the future delivery of goods,
such as was made in this case. and by the terms of this. -agreement, it was still necessary that the goods delivered should
conform to a common commercial standard, and should be
adapted to the known uses of the vendee, notwithstanding the
express terms of the written 'ontract.
(2) That the court erred in refusingto treat the previous contract between Berry Brothers and the De Witt Wire Cloth Company at a part of the contract incontroversy, by reference.
(3) That the court etred in excluding the antecedent- parol
olloquiunm offered as a part of the contract, or as competent
to explain and interpret it.
We will consider these general propositions in the order

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

stated. First. The contract between the parties was in writing and contained an express warranty as to the quality It
says.: "Thele goods [are] to be exactly the same quality as
we make for the De Witt Wire Cloth Company of New York,
and as per samlile bbls. delivered." INow there is good authority for the proposition that if the contract of sale is in
writing and contains no warranty, parol evidence is not admissible to add a warranty 'Fan Ostrand v Reed, 1 Wend.
424, Lamb v. Crafts, 12 Met. 350, 353, Dean v Mason, 4
Connecticut, 428, 432, Reed v Wood, 9 Vermont, 285, 1
Parsons on Cont. (6th edition) 589.
If it be true that the failure of a vendee to exact a warranty when he takes a written contract precludes him from
showing a warranty by parol, a multo fortorm when his written contract contains a warranty on the identical questiox.
and one in its terms inconsistent with the one claimed.
In the case of The ]?eesde, 2 Sumner, 567, Mr. Justice
Story said. "I apprehend that it can never be proper to resort
to any usage or custom to control or vary the positive stipulations in a written qontract, and a forwor? not in order to contradict them. An express contract of the parties is always
admissible to supersede, or vary or control a usage or custom,
for the latter may always be waived at the will of the parties.
But a written and express contract cannot be controlled or
varied or contradicted by a usage or custom, for that would
not only be to admit parol evidence to control, vary, or contradict written contracts, but it would be to allow mere presumptions and implications, properly arising in the absence
of any positive expressions of intention, to control, vary, or
cont'radict the most formal and deliberate written declarations
of the parties." The. principle is, that, while parol evidence
is sometimes admissible to explain such terms in the contract
as are doubtful, it is not admissible to contradict what is
plain, or to add new terms. Thus, where a certain written
contract- was for "prim6 singed bacon," evidence offered to
prove that by the usage of the trade a certain latitude, of
deterioration called "average taint" was allowed to subsist
before "the bacon ceased to answer -that description, was

RE WITT v. BERRY.
Opmion of the Court.

held to be inadmissible. 1 Greenleaf on Evidence, ยง 292,
note 3, Yates v Pym, 6 Taunt. 446, Barnard v ellogg,
10 Wall. 383, Bliven v. NYew England Srew Company, 23
How 420, Oelmwls v Ford, 23 How 49.
There are numerous well considered cases that an express
warranty of quality excludes any implied warranty that the
articles sold were merchantable or fit for their intended use.
International Pavement Co. v Smith, 17 Missouri App. 264,
Johnson,v Latimer, 71 C eorgia, 4'70, Cosgrove v Bennett, 32
Minnesota, 371, Shepherd v Gilroy, 46 Iowa, 193, -McGraw
v Fletcher, 35 Michigan, 104.
Nor is there any conflict between these authorities and
others like them on the one hand, and those on the other,
which hold that goods sold by a manufacturer, in the absence
of an express contract, are impliedly warranted as merchantable, or as suited to the known purpose of the buyer. Dushane v Benedict, 120 U. S. 630, 636, and cases there cited.
It is the existence of the express warranty, or its absence, which
determines the question. In the case at bar there was such an
express warranty of quality in terms. Not only that, but
there was a sample delivered and accepted, as such. The law
is well settled, that, under such circumstances, implied warranties do not exist. Mumford v AcPherson, 1 Johns.
414, Sands v Taylor, 5 Johns. 395, Beck v Sheldon, 48
N. Y 365, Parknsonv Lee, 2 East, 314. In Jones v. Just,.
L. R. 3 Q. B. 197, 202, quoted by Mr. Benjamin in his work on
Sales, ยง 657, Mellor, J., delivering the opinion of the court,
laid down among others the following rule "Where a known
described and defined article is ordered of a manulkcturer,
although-it is stated to be required by the purchaser for a particular purpose; still, if the known defined and described thing
be actually supplied, there is no warranty that it shall answer
the particular purpose intended by the buyer. Chanterv Hopkzns, 4 M. & W 399, Ollivant v Bayey, 5 Q. B. 288."
.nxamming now the express terms of the contract, in order
to see what they are, and whether they fairly import the warranty claimed by-the plaintiffs in error, we find them to be at
follows

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

"These goods to be exactly the same quality as we make for
the De Witt Wire Cloth Company of New York, and as per
sample bbls. delivered. Turpentine copal varnish at 65 cts.
per gallon, turpentine japan dryer al 55 cts. per gallon-"
There are here three items of description clazmed by the
plaintiffs in error (1) That they should be the same as those
made for the De Witt Wire Cloth Company; and there is no
evidence whatever that they were not the same, nor is a difference in this respect any part of their claim. (2) That they
should conform to a sample delivered, and here again is an entire absence of testimony to show any difference, and a want of
any such claim by the plaintiffs in error, The whole question,
therefore, as to this branch of the case, turns upon te effect
of the use of the expressions "Turpentine copal varnish,. at 65
cts. per gallon, turpentine japan dryer, at 55 cts. per gallon" The plaintiffs in error maintain that the defendants in
error thereby engaged to deliver articles known to the trade
by those names, and of a certain standard of quality We do
not so construe the writing. All the terms descriptive of the
quality are found in the sentence preceding. These sentences
are nothing but stipulations in respect to the prices to be paid,
and were not intended.to fix quality
There is this further to'be said. We have carefully examined
the record in this case, and are impressed with a conviction
that, whatever the fact may be, the evidence adduced fails to
show any such general usage of trade in respect to the standard1 of these preparations, or in respect to their designations,
as is claimed by the plaintiffs in error. Their position is, that
the words "turpentine copal varnish," etc., if considered at all
as a stipulation as to quality, would mean a varnish in which
the liquid elements were to be so composed that at least 50
per cent of them should be turpentine. In Carter v Cmck,
4 H. & N. 412, 417, Pollock, C. B., observed that "if a party
seeks to make out that certain words used in a contract have a
different acceptation from their ordinary sense, either for the
purposes of trade, or within a certain market or in a particular
country, he must prove it, not by calling witnesses, some of
whom will say it is one way and some the other, and then

DE

WITT v. BERRY'

Opinion of the Court.

leaving it to the jury to say which they believe, but by clear,
distinct and irresistible -idence."
We pass now to the second proposition of the plaintiffs in
error, that the court erred in refusing to charge the jury that
if the goods delivered to them as turpentine were not the best
of their kind, as guaranteed by reference to the contract with
the De Witt Wire Cloth Company, they should find for them.
The answer to the proposition seems obvious, it is but an
-effort, in a different shape to -vary the written contract made.
The terms of that contract were not "these goods to be exactly the same quality as we have heretofore contracted to
make for the De Witt Wire Cloth Company and as per sample bbls. delivered," but were, "these goods to be exactly the
same quality as we make for the De Witt Wire Cloth Company, etc." There is here no reference whatever, either express or implied, to the contraot with the De Witt Wire Cloth
Company, what goods were mtfact made, not what were agreed
to be made, was the standard. To fix that standard of goods
produced, and not goods contracted for, yet more firmly as the
measure of quality, a subsequent clause was written - "and as
per sample bbls. delivered." It is clear that, under the contract, if the goods produced for the De Witt Wire Cloth Company varied from the. samples delivered, the plaintiffs in error
had the right to insist on the test by the sample. It is manifest that the terms of the other contract were not present -to
the minds of the parties of this contract. The plaintiffs in
error fixed the terms of their warranty, and we cannot import
other terms into the writing.
The third proposition, that the court erred in excluding Pvideuce of an antecedent conversation between the salesman And
one of the plaintiffs in error, is disposed of "bythe well-settled
rule, that "when parties have deliberately put their engage.
ments into writing, in.
such terms'as import a legal obligation,
without Any .uncertainty as to the object or extent of such
engagement, it is conclusively presumed that the whole engagement-of the parties, and the extent and manner of their
undertaking, was-reduced to writing; and all oral testimony of
a previous ceolloquani between the parties,
. as it would

