OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

The jury found title thereto in defendant in error, and also
by the 37th finding described what was stated too be "the
premises in dispute " by metes, and bounds, as conveyed to
Deputron. The judgment, though using somewhat different
language, conforms to the finding. There was no motion to
set aside the verdict and for a new trial nor can we discover
that any suggestion of mistake in its terms was made below
The governmental subdivision would be, if accurate, eighty
rods long by forty rods wide, and the finding and judgment
describe a tract fourteen hundred feet in length by seven hundred and fifty feet in width, less a parcel in the southwest
corner, but excess in acreage frequently occurs in government
surveys, and as the finding is that the description there given
and followed in the judgment is the description of the premises
in dispute, we perceive no ground for interference.
There biing no error the judgment is
Affirmed.

HENDERSON BRIDGE COMPANY v. McGRATH.
ERiROR TO TIF FIeCUIT cOURT OF

THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE

DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
No. 63.

Argued November 4, 1889. -Decided

March 17, 1890.

Mf, contracted with a bridge company to construct the road for a railway,
according to specifications and profile, from the end of its bridge to
Evansville, about Six miles. The road was to run on bottom lands, with
an uneven natural surface, and the profile showed part .trestle and part
embankment. It was contemplated that the material for the embankments was to be taken from borrowing-pits along the line. The specifications fixed prices for excavation, for filling and for trestiing, and
provided that the relative amounts of trestle and earthwork might be
changed at the option of the engineer without prejudice. During the
progress of the work the company decided to modify the plan by abandoning the trestling in the line of the road, substituting for it a continuous embankment, and by making a draining ditch along the whole line,
running through the borrow-pits. In order to serve its intended
purpose this ditch was required to be of a regular downward grade, with
properly sloping sides. Some of the borrow,,ppts wd~e found to be

HENTERSON BRIDGE CO. v. McGRATH.
Statement of the Case.
too deep, and others too shallow, and it was found that they had been ex
cavated without reference to the slope at the sides. 'There were highways and private roads crossing the line at grade. The contract did not
indicate how the approaches of these roads were to be constructed, but
when the change was determined on, it was decided td make them of
trestle. This work was more expensive than the trestle provided for in
the contract. The company directed its engineer to have these modifications carried out, and the. contractor was notified of thns. H6 made no
objection to the substitution of embankment for trestling; but as to the
ditch, he objected that it was not in the contract. A conversation followed, in which the contractor understood the engineer to say that it
would be paid for at excavation rices from the surface down, but the
company claimed that it was only intended as an expression of the opinion
of the engineer, which, it said, was made without authority. A's to the
trestle approaches the contractor was informed that he would be paid
what was right. The work was constructed in all respects according to
the modified plans. In settling, the contractor claimed to be paid for
the ditch as excavation from the surface down. The company claimed
that the material taken from the borrow-pits should be deducted from the
total. There were about 2800 feet in all of the trestle approaches. The
contractor accepted payment for 2100 feet at the contract price, and as
to the remaining 700 feet claimed to be paid according to what the trestles were reasonably worth. The company claimed that they should be
paid for at the contract price; Held,
(1) That the construction of the ditch was outside of the original contract;
(2) That the fact that it- passed through the borrowing-pits did not
modify that fact;
(3) That the engineer had authority to agree with the contractors that
they should be paid for it as excavation from the surface down,
(4) That it was right to leave it to the jury to determine whether such
an agreement was made between the contractors and the local
engineer, acting for the company;
(5) That it was properly left to the jury to decide whether the company
agreed to pay for the trestle approaches what they were reasonably worth,
(6) That as the agreement was to. pay, not a fixed price, but what the
trestling was reasonably worth, wlch the law would have implied,
it was immaterial whether the agent of the company had or had
not authority to make it.

Tis was an action at law brought by the defendants m
error against the plaintiff in error lfl the Circuit Court of
Vanderburgh County, Indiana, and removed into the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Indiana.
The Henderson Bridge Company was a corporation of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

State of Kentucky, organized for the purpose of building a
bridge over the Ohio River from the city of Henderson, Kentucky, to the Indiana bank of the river, and a railroad thence
to the city of Evansville, Indiana, a distance of about nine
miles.
On the 8th of July, 1884, a contract was made between the
company and the defendants in error for the grading, masonry
and trestling of the railroad for a distance of something over
six miles, measuring from Evansville to the bridge, designated
as sections 1 to 6 inclusive, and a part of section 7, each section being one mile long. :No formal written contract was executed between the parties, but the agreement arrived at
consisted of, (1) specifications and profile of .the work to be
done, on the part of the company, (2) proposals on the part
of the contractor, and (3) acceptance of the proposals by the
company'
The specifications prepared by the chief engineer of the
defendant classified the work as "Clearing and grubbing,"
" Excavations,", " Embankments," "M
Masonry," and "Pile
Trestle."
Defendants in error completed the work about the 1st ot
March, 1885, and the company accepted it. On the final
settlement a controversy arose as to the amount of the balance due the defendants in error, after crediting the partial
payments made as. the work progressed, and this suit was
brought to recover the amount of $23,667, claimed by them
to be due, which the company had refused to pay
The bills of exception taken below, however, and the errors
assigned, narrow the controversy in this court to two items one being in respect to a drainage ditch, which was ordered
to be made, the other in regard to the value of certain extra
pile-work. Our statement of the case will be confined to an
examination of those points.
(1) The work contracted for lay, all except the two sections
nearest to Evansville, through the bottoms of the Ohio River,
which were subjejct to overflow On that portion in the bottoms the profiles showed several stretches of trestling which
aggregated 1486 feet. The specifications, however, provided

HENDERSON BRIDGE CO. v. McGRATH.
Statement of the Case.

that "1the quantities marked on profile are approximate, and
not binding. The relative amounts of trestle and earthwork
may be changed at option of the engineer without prejudice."
While the work was m progress the company determined
to modify the plan so as to omit the trestle and make a continuous embankment with underlying drain-pipes. Thisn.modification necessitated a different system of surface drainage,
and it was determined that the. borrow-pits (that is to say, the
excavations along the line of the railroad from which the earth
was taken to form the embankment) should form a drainage
ditch on the eastern side for about two-thirds of the way
Mr. Hurlburt, who was the company's third engineer in rank,
and had immediate supervision of the work in the field, was
directed to have these modifications carried out.
In consequence of this change of the plan, Mr. Vaughan,
the company's chief engineer, on the 16th -of August, 1884.
telegraphed 0 F Nichols, the resident engineer at Henderson,
directing him to notify the defendants in error that "all
trestle on portion of line embraced in their contract will
be dispensed with." And on the 26th of August following
Nichols wrote them as follows: "As directed by the chief
engineer, Mr. F W Vaughan, I hereby notify you that the
trestle shown north of station three hundred and thirty-three
(333) on profile of the Henderson Bridge Railroad will be
omitted. The corresponding space will. be filled by solid embankment. "Arrangements have been completed for additional
borrow-pits necessary to complete these embankments." No
objection was made to that change by the defendants in error.
In regard to the ditch, however, it was different. Defendants in error maintained that no such ditch was called for
either by the specifications or by the profile, and that, therefore, they were under no contract to make it. They claimed
further, and there was testimony in the record to the point,
that on the day after the receipt of Mr. Nichols' letter, Hurlburt, the local engineer m charge, came to see them, and notified them that they would be required to make said ditch on
the eastern side of the embankment from section three to section seven, inclusive, for the purposes of draining the borrow-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

pits, such ditch to be two feet wide on bottom in section three.
three feet at bottom in section four, four feet wide on bottom
in section seven, and to run through the borrow-pits, and have
a slope of one and a half feet, horizontal measurement, to one
foot perpendicular. Defendants claimed further that they
objected, on the ground that they could not make the ditch
without compensation, and that thereupon Hurlburt replied
that they would be paid for it at the same price they had bid
for excavation, and that it would be estimated fr
the top of
the ground down.
The company, -on the other hand, denied both the fact of
the making of such alleged supplementary contract, and the
authority of the engineer, Hurlburt, to make it. It maintained that the evidence showed only an expression of opinion
made by Hurlburt.
The annexed rude diagram of a cross-section of the work
will illustrate the situation.
.R
I

_/

\_

I

/

Defendants in error did not deny the fact of the coincidence, as stated, between the ditch and the borrow-pits, bat
they justified by saying that the basis of measurement adopted
in their contract, while it was to a certain extent arbitrary,
yet was not a cheating or improper basis, for the reason that
it was a commutation, and was necessitated by the introduction of the continuous parallel ditch. The digging of such a
ditch introduced, they claimed, an entirely new element into
the work; it peremptorily demanded the careful maintenance
of the ditch level throughout its whole extent, and required
long hauls of dirt, and whereas, before the ditch was ordered,
the excavation was made entirely with reference to the con-

HENDERSON BRIDGE 00. v. -KcGRATH.
Statement of the Case.

venience of depositing the dirt in the embankment, afterwards
it had to be made with reference to the ditch.
(2) The defendants in error were required to make certain
trestle approaches on one side of the road for some of the road
crossings, and farm crossings, into which were put 2800 lineal
feet of piling. The profile did not indicate that -these approaches were to be made of piling; and defendants in -rror
claim that they were not, therefore, included in the bid, but
were made under a new agreement .that they should be.paid
for "as was right." The contract price for trestles was 30
cents per lineal foot, but the evidence of defendants in error
tended to show that the construction of these trestles was
worth from 60 cents to, $1.50 per lineal foot.
The engineer's estimate for February, 1885, contained this
item "Sees. 3, 4, 5, 6, 1. Piles driven,'2108 lineal feet, 30
cents per lineal'foot, $630.90." This was part of the piling in
controversy, and on this estimate the defendants in error settled with the company for February and receipted it.. The
company then claimed that said. settlement and receipt,
and the original agreement as to value in the bid accepted,
conclusively fixes the price at 30 cents per lineal foot for the
whole 2800 feet, while Ahe defendants in error, on the other
hand, claimed that the receipt in February was merely for a
.payment for 2108 lineal feet, and that they could, as to the
other 700 feet, still prove value on a quantum meruzt.
Under these forms of the controversy, not necessary to be
further adverted to here, the case was tried below On the
trial the court instructed the jury as follows: "The taking,out
of the trestles and the. requirement of -earthwork in theirplace created no basis for a claim for extra compensation, so
that, for :the purpose of the question we are now coming to,
the case is the same as though the specifications and profile iin
the first instance had shown continuous embankment. The
bridge company, having come to the conclusion to make this
embankment, deemed it proper to make a -change in the requirements inrespect to ditches, but there is no reservation in
the contract in regard to that. Of course, the general terms of
the contract in respect to the right of the engineer to oversee

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statemeit of the Case;

the work may embrace the power to direct reasonable changes
in regara to ditches, but there is nothing authorizing the
bridge company to substitute a continuous ditch for the
ditches defined upon the original profile, so when they determined to require this continuous ditch to be -made, it
necessarily put the parties into a position for negotiation on
the subject, -and Mr.: Hurlburt, the engineer in charge) being
authorized to have this ditch constructed; had incidental
-authority to agree upon the price or mode of measurement."
The defendant at the time excepted to so much of that
instruction as is contained in the following words, viz. "But
there is n4thing authorizing the bridge company to substitute
a continuous ditch for the ditches defined upon the original
profile, so when they determined to -require this continuous
ditch to be' made, it necessarily put the parties into a position
for negotiation on the subject, and Mr. Hurlburt, the engineer
in charge, being authorized to have this ditch constructed, had
incidental authority to agree upon the price or mode of measurement."
The court also gave the jury the following instructions, viz.
"But when it was, proposed to make a continuous ditch on
the east side of the track at the same time the embankment
was being, made, that introduced a new element into the
problem. If the parties were. to make an embankment and
ditch also, it became desirable to take ile dirt for the em,bankment from such localities as would be most effective in
producing the ditch, and it necessarily resulted from this
state of things that a party making embankment would, or
might at least, make embankment and ditch at the same
time. He might be taking earth- out for the purpose of
making embankment which'he could have taken from another
place more ecoromically if he was not intending to make
this ditch. It followstbat earth taken from the same place
may represent embankment, and also ditch. The excafation
made migjht be borrow-pit, and it might be ditch, and consequently 'it became proper for the parties concerned to
adopt some system by which they would compute -the respective amounts to be credited to each- phase of the work.

HENDERSON BRIDGE CO. v.

ocGRATH.

State~Ment of the Case.

The same work being effective, both towards making the
embankment and making the ditch, to -treat it as all embankment or as all ditqh, would be unjust. So it was for the
parties, the bridge company and plaintiffs, to agree upon
some plan upon which they could make a computation, and
so I instruct you upon the- facts as they appear without dispute that it was within the power of Mr. Hurlburt, the
resident engineer, who was superintending the construction
of the work, to make a contract with the plaintiffs, who
-were under contract to make the embankment for the making
of this ditch, to agree that they should do this work, and
how much of the excavation should be 'deemed to be for the
purpose of embankment and how much for the ditch:"
The defendant also excepted at the time to so much of
that instruction as is in the words following, viz. "And so
I instruct you upon the facts as they appear without dispute
that it was within the power of Mr. Hurlburt, the resident
engineer, who was superintending the construction of the
work, to make a contract with the plaintiffs, who were under
contract to make the embankment for the making of this
ditch, to agree that they should-do this work, and how much.
of the excavation should be deemed to be for the purpose of
embankment and how much for the ditch."
The court also gave to the jury the following instructions,
viz. "From the duty, imposed upon him as resident engineer
of the defendant arose Mr. Hurlburt's power to make an
adjustment of the question. Plaintiffs claim he did make
arrangements with them, by which it was agreed that the
portion 'of excavation to be regarded as such should be..
considered as starting from the lower level of the ditch along
its whole length anid be measured at a certain slope to the
surface of the earth as it was before work was commenced,
and upon that they claim 37,256 cubic yards of excavation as
ditch. Defendant claims that Hurlburt did not make any
such agreement, and this is an issue of fact which the jury
must determine upon the evidence. I will say, however, that
under the circumstances, Mr. Hurlburt did have power to
make the agreement if he saw fit so to do. If you find that

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

he did so, and that the measurements he returned are correct,
then the plaintiffs are entitled to compensation accordingly
for 37,256 cubic yards at 18 cents per cubic yard." And
to the giving of that instruction the defendant at the time
excepted.
The court also gave to the jury the following instruction
"If Mr. Hurlburt did not make such agreement with these
parties, but simply told them what mode of measurement
he thought would be adopted, but that it would have to be
left to the chief engineer in the end, it would follow'that the
work was jlone without any special agreement, and you will
be compelled to estimate it upon its fair and reasonable worth.
You will, then, consider from the proof how much excavation
was made for the ditch, and how much more to make the
embankment than if the continuous ditch had not been
required, and for the number of yards of earth excavated
in consequence, allow 18 cents per cubic yard. In this view
the figures- of. Mr. Hurlburt, though relevant, would not be
conolusive as evidence. If he made the agreement, as the
plaintiffs claim he did, and his estimates were correct, that is
an end of the question. If he did not make the agreement
and the question was left open, then you must determine the
number of yards excavated for the ditch upon the proof and
allow accordingly the contract price of 18 cents a yard."
The defendant at the time excepted to so much of that
instruction as is in the following words, viz. "If he made the
agreement, as the plaintiffs claim he did, then that is an end of
th question."
The defendant requested the court, in writing, to give to the
jury the following instruction, viz.
"As to the ditch claimed
hy plaintiffs to have been made by them on the easterly side
of the railroad of defendant, the plaintiffs are entitled to
recover only for so much excavation as was actually done for
the purpose of making such ditch, excluding any portion of
the borrow-pits dug exclusively for the purpose of making the
embankments, and. that the jury can find for plaintiffs only
the contract price of 18 cents per -cubic yard for the excavation, wich.they may find from the evidence was so made for

HENDERSON BRIDGE CO. v. MQGRATH.
Statement of the Case.

the purpose of making such ditch."

But the court refused to

give that instruction, whereupon the defendant at the time
excepted.
As to the claim of the defendants in error for a price extra
to the original contract for the trestles built by them- the
court gave to the jury the following instructions "The next
item is the piles in the bridges. The contract price for piles is
30 cents per lineal foot. The profile and. specifications, as
originally drawn, or as they now .stand, show considerable
trestle work, and show generally highway crossings across
the track at different places, but there is no statement in the
specifications or in the profile with respect to what kind of
crossing it shall be, whether of earth or of timber. There is
a dispute between the parties -arising out of this fact upon the
question whether these bridges, made for the purmose of carrying highways over the embankment, are within-the contract.
The contract in that respect is ambiguous. The court, looking
at the contract, cannot say what kind of crossing was ixtended.
There is no proof of custom in this case sufficient to settle this
point. We are. therefore left to the construction- which the
contractors themselves have adopted, as shown by their conduct under the contract. When parties haye made an ambignous contract and have acted under it, and their joint actions
show their understanding of it, courts and juries will follow
the construction thus indicated. In this case the evidence
shows that in respect to 2100 feet, in round numbers, the
plaintiffs themselves treated the piles as coming within the
terms of the contract in respect to price by receipting for
that price upon the estimates. There has been evidence before
the jury- I cannot rehearse it -as to what was said between
the engineer of defendaut and plaintiffs at the time this work
was done. Perhaps the plaintiffs made some protest against
doing this work at the price stated, but, nevertheless, they
went on -and did the work under that price and receipted for it,
and I think the jury should accept -that as conclusive upon
that point. A subordinate engineer, working in behalf of
a corporation, as Mr. Hurlburt was, has no right to waive the
effect of receiving pay upon monthly estimates under a con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

tract like this. Such a contract would have but little force
or value if a subordinate agent has the power to waive the
terms, and this contract declares the estimates made by the
engineer and furnished to the parties to be final, except for
fraud or mistake. If -the defendant had been an individual
instead of a corporation he could have been there m7 person
and waived the contract by saying we will leave that open,
we will not make that conclusive, but I instruct you that this
subordinate agent, Mr. Hurlburt, working for the bridge company, a corporation whose affairs must have been conducted
by agents appointed to act for it -Mr. Hurlburt acting in this
capacity - kould not waive this stipulation in the contract,
that the monthly and final estimates should be conclusive.
Therefore, in respect to the piling included in the estimate,
about 2100 lineal feet, plaintiffs have precluded themselves from
claiming extra pay
In respect'to the work on the embankment, the act of accepting pay at the contract price raises a presumption that that was the proper price for the whole amount,
-and, in the absence of proof to the contrary, the contract
price should govern, but the presumption is not conclusive as
to the 'T00 feet of piling not in the estimates, and if you find
-upon the proof that there was an agreement between 'plaintiffs and Mr. iHurlburt that these piles should be paid for at
what they were reasonably worth, and not by the contract
price, you may allow the reasonable value as shown by the
proof on the subject."
The defendant at the time excepted to so much of that instruction as is contained in the following words, viz. "But
the presumption is not conclusive as to the 700 feet of piling
not in the estimates, and if you find upon the proof that there
was an agreement between plaintiffs and Mr. Hurlburt that
these piles should be paid- for at what they were reasonably
worth, and not by the contract price, yo may allow the
reasonable value as shown by the proof on the subject."
The defendant in writing requested the court to -give the
jury the following instruction, viz. "Where any of the work
done by plaintiffs and sued for in their complaint has been
included in any of the monthly estimates of such work read to

HENDERSON BRIDGE CO. v. McGRATI1.
Opinm n of the Court.

them, and such work is therein valued at the contract price,
such fact is conclusive evidence that such work was done
under the contract and the prices fixed there final and conclusive."
But the court refused to give that instruction, to which
ruling of the court the defendant at the time excepted.
It. was claimed that, by reason of those instructions, the
jury were authorized to.find, and did find, for the defendants
in error, for the alleged ditch, five thousand six hundred 'and
thirty-six dollars and fifty-five cents, and for the. piling eight
hundred and fifty dollars, in 9xcess of -any rightful claim they
had, and to that extent the plaintiff in error,. which was the
defendant below, averred the verdict to be erroneous.
"The verdict of the jury upon which the judgment
was ren.
dered was for $13,470 in favor of the defendants in error.
The assignments of error were: (1) That the court erred it
refusing to charge the jury. in behalf of the defendant below
as stated, and "(2):that .the court erred in. those parts of thi
charge given, which were -objected to by the defendant below'
as stated.
ffT S. B. Vance (with whom was Xt
ford on the brief) for plaintiff in error.

James M. Shackel-

fr CurranA. IZeBruler (with whom was _Mr Alexander
Gzhlchrt. and ffr -DarnlB. _Yrwmr," on the brief) for de.
fendants in error.
MNrm.

JusTion LA AR, after stating. the case as -above, de-,

liyered the onimon of the court.
The main questions to be determined in the first branch- of
this case are these
(1) Did the modification. of the. original specifications an
profile, made. in August, 1884,fall within- the original con
tract, or -did it create a feature In the -work to be done, so
different from that originally contracted for as to put the
defendants in error in a position to make as to that feature a
new contract 2

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

(2) Did the engineer, Hurlburt, have authority to make such
new contract?
(3) Did the court err in refusing to charge, as prayed,
"that the plaintiffs [below] are entitled to recover only for so
much excavation as was actually done for the purpose of making such ditch, excluding any portion of the borrow-pits dug
exclusively for the purpose of making the embankments"
We shall briefly consider those questions s.erratim.
First. -A careful examination of the specifications and profile, and of the testimony in the case, all set forth in the bills
of exceptiops, satisfies us that the requirement to construct a
continuous drainage ditch parallel to the embankment, four
and one-third miles long, and of the dimensions ordered, did
create a new problem in the work not covered by.the original
contract. The ditch was required to have a fall of nearly two
feet to the mile; to be two feet wide at the bottom at one
end, and to increase ii size to six-feet bottom width at the
other end, and throughout, the sides were required to be
scaled one and one-half foot horizontal measure to one foot
perpendicular. The testimony shows that in one portion, at
least, it was nine. feet deep. It was made to drain off the
water from the prescribed area, and to take the place of the
county ditches. On this point. McGrath, one of the defendants in error, testified that "1to make the borrow-pits serve
for a ditch it was necessary to haul the earth from the high
ground, where the embankment was low, to the low grounds,
where the embankment was high, whereas but for the ditch,
the earth from the embankment would have been taken directly from the, sides, that this in many places necessitated
a longer haul of earth, and increased the cost of the embankmont."
Wasson, who was a sub-contractor, testified that before the
change was made he "had taken earth from borrow-pits about
twenty inches deep, and afterwards had to dig to the depth
of nine feet to make the ditch, and was required to haul this
extra excavation, some of it six hundred feet."
Robinson testified that "if the work was changed so as to
require a oontinuous ditch, it could not be done as cheaply as

HENDERSON BRIDGE CO. v. McGRATH.
Opnion of the Court.

it could if done as -provided for in the specificatibns,, because
where the embankment would be low you would have to rpake
a shallow borrow-pit, and in making a continuous ditch you
would have to deepen that borrow-pit to bring it to the ditch
level and would have to carry the dirt forward, necessitating
a haul. There was no continuous ditch contemplated in the
profile of the work."
Fisher, a witness for defendants in error, testified- that "he
was a civil engineer of thirty-five years' experiencesand largely
as railroad engineer. If the specifications provided that the
earth for embankment should be borrowed equally from both
sides, and then a continuous ditch should be required to be
made on one side of the embankment, it would necessitate a
greater haul and would be more expensive. In consequence
of the ditch a greater amount.of earth would have to be taken
from the side on which the ditch is made; One cannot work
to such an advantage in a narrow ditch as in a broad borrowpit. The deeper you go, the harder the earth is to work."
Outside of the testimony of the witnesses, it is manifest
that to dig earth on a surface rolling pnd broken, as the profile shows the surface to have been in this instance, for the
sole purpose of constructing a level embankment, and without
regard to the depth or extent or level of the pits thereby
made, is a very different problem from the digging with the
double view of the construction of such an embankment, andtht making of a continuous ditch with prescribed directions
and uniform bottom level for a length of more 'than four
miles.
It is true that, as the plaintiff in error says, the profile
shows ditching in these same sections, eovered by the original
contract, to the amount of 4660 cubic yards, but it' also is
true that those ditches wer6 of a very different character, 4nd
imposed no such burden on the contractor as did the one in
question. Indeed, the plaintiff in error itself treated the modification as a serious change, and especially so considered the
ditch, before the controversy arose. In the correspondence
between the two engineers of the company which determined
on it, it is spoken of as E new system.
voL. oxxxiv-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Second. We also think the engineer, Hurlburt, had authority
to make a new bontract for the ditching. The plaintiff in
error insists that a subordinate engineer has no such authority
by virtue of his employment. That may be conceded, but it
is not the ground assumed by the defendants in error. They
contend that Hurlburt was specially authorized to make the
contract, and support that position by quoting the second
engineer Nichols, who says, "that the plan of drainage suggested in my letter to Mr. Vaughan was accepted by him, and
Mr Hulb rt was directed to Aave it carpted out." This view
is fortified by the fact that in Vaughan's letter to Nichols
whereby the proposed changes were sanctioned 16th of August, 1884, and numerous items of adjustment and arrangement made necessary by such changes suggested, Vaughan,
himself, clearly recognized the. situation as one admitting of
new terms with the contractors. He wrote, znter alia, of the
change, "this solid bank business" he called it, "we might
get a low rate for extra earth in consideration of the same."
In Damon v Granby, 2 Pick. 345, the inhabitants of the
town of Granby had voted that certain persons thirteen in
number should be a committee to procure a master builder,
and superintend the building of a meeting-house for the town.
On the trial of the case, which was an action of debt by the
builder of the meeting-house on the contract made with the
comtnittee, the defendants objected that the superintending
committee had no authority to contract for the building of
the house. The court held that the vote of the inhabitants
gave to this committee the authority to enter into the contract. "To superintend the building of the house," says the
court, "includes the power to make the necessary contracts,"
etc. See also Story on Agency, ยง 79.
Third. Nor do we think the court below erred in refusing
to charge the jury that the defendants in error were only entitled to recover for such excavation as was actually done for
the purpose of making such ditch, as distinguished from such
portion of, the ideal ditch as coincided in space with the borrow-pits, as portions thereof. In some cases, nay, in most
cases, that would be a proper charge, perhaps, but not in this

HENDERSON BRIDGE 00. v. McGRATH.
Opinion 9f the Court.

case. Here the plaintiffs below claimed before the jury, as a
matter of. fact,.that they held a valid contract with. the defendant below, by the .terms of which they were. entitled to
pay for the whole volume of the-ditch (calling itm"naginary"
in part makes no differenee), from the bottom up to the
original ground surface through- its whole length, -aiid tha,
whether said volume c6incided with the- spaces- of -borrow-pits
or not. It.was for the ury to say whether-subh contract did.
in fact exist. It was not for the court to assume. and instruct
the jury as a matter of law that it did not. exist. .Such a contract was not legally impossible. It was not -laimed 'that the.
contractors defrauded the company, or in any way took advantage of it, and the basis of measurement, even-if artificial
and to an extent "imaginary," is not legally unreasonable,.m
view of the testimony of the witnesses as to the onerous and
complicated labors of such a ditch. As a substitute and
eqmvalent for all the items of demand - in increased volume
of excavation, increased -hauls, increased hardness of earth to
be worked, etc., it may have'been a very proper system. We.
cannot say that it was-not.
As to the second branch of the case, viz., that in respect to
the piling, it is objected by the plaintiff in error that. the
instruction of the court was erroneous for the --following
reasons First. Because in speaking of the 700 feet still notpaid for, the court said "If you find upon the proof that
there was an agreement between plaintiffs and Mr. Hurlburt
that these piles should be paid for at what they were reasonably worth," etc., while there was no evidence tending to
show that Hurlburt made the agreement therein supposed.
But there was such evidence. Ryan, one of the plaintiffs
below, had testified that "we had no contract for this work,
and before we began -it I had a conversation with Mr. Hurlburt about it. I wanted to know what we would be paid for
it, and he said that Mr. Vaughan would do what was right."
This was claimed to be a contract for reasonable compensation. It was for the jury to say whether the conversation
was with a contractual intent or not. The court had no right
to assume as a matter of law that it was not, and refuse a,

