OCTOBER TERIM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

academy He still was subject to a final examination at that
institution, and without such examination successfully sustained never became a graduate. He was not so denominated
until then, either in the Naval Register or elsewhere, and it
was not until that final test had been sustained that, either by
the practice of the academy, or by the provision of the statute
he did or could receive his certificate of graduation.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is

.A
ffrmed.

GUNTHER o. LIVERPOOL AND LONDON
GLOBE INSURANCE COMPANY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORi.
Nqo. 1367. Argued January 16,'1890.-

AND

STATES FOR THE

Decided March 3, 1890.

A policy of insurance on a building and its contents against fire, containing a
printed condition by which "kerosene or carbon oils of any description are
not to be stored, used, kept or allowed on the above premises, temporarily
or-permanently, for sale or otherwise, unless with written permission
endorsed on this policy excepting the use of refined coal, kerosene, or
.other carbon oil for lights, if the same is drawn and the lamps filled by
daylight, otherwise this policy shall be null and void," is avoided if
kerosene or other carbon oil is drawrA upon the premises near a lighted
lamp by any person .acting by direction or under authority of the
assureal's lessee; although .there was attached to the policy at the
time of its issue a printed slip, signed by the. insurer, " privileged to
use kerosene, oil for lights, lamps to be filled and trimmed by daylight
only;" and although the insurer has since -written in the margin of
the policy, "privileged to keep not exceeding five barrels of oil on said
premises."
Liveipool and London Insurance Go. v. Gunther 116 U. S. 113, affirmed.
When there is no evidence. to warrant a verdict for the plaintiff, so that if
such a verdict were returned it would be the duty of the court to set it
aside, a verdict may be directed for the defendant.

IN CONTRACT, on a policy of insurance. Judgment for defendant. Plaintiff sued out this writ of error. The case is
stated in tbe opifion.

GUNTHER v. LIVERPOOL INS. C0.
Opinon of the Court.

.M

C. Bazn'uge Smdth for plaintiffs in error.

fr.. William Allen Butler for defendant in error.
MR. JusTIcE GiiAY delivered the opinion of the.court.
This was an action brought by a citizen of New York against
a British corporation on two policies of fire insurance, dated
November 16, 1877, and extended to July 15, 1880, the one on
buildings, and the other on fiktures, furniture and other personal property in and about the same.
Each policy described the principal building as follows
"The two-story frame hotel building, with one-story frame
kitchen and two-story frame pavilion adjoining and comn 1n1cating, situated on Gravesend, Bay of Bath, Kings County,
'Long Island, (it is understood that the above property is to
be occupied by a family when not in use as a hotel, ) privilege
to use gasoline gas, gasometer, blower and generator being
under ground about sixty feet from main building m vault, no
heat employed in process."
Among the printed conditions of each policy were the following
"If the assured shall keep gunpowder, fire-works, nitroglycerine, phosphorus, saltpetre, nitrate of soda, petroleum,
naphtha, gasoline, benzine, benzole, or benzine varnish, or keep
or use camphene, spirit gas, or any burning fluid or chemical
oils, without written permission in this policy, then and in
every such case this policy shall be void."
"1Petroleum, rock, earth, coal, kerosene or carbon oils of any
description, whether crude or refined, benzine, benzole, naphtha, camphene, spirit gas, burning fluid, turpentine, gasoline,
phosgene or any other inflammable liquid are not to be stored,
used, kept or allowed on the above premises, temporarily or
permanently, for sale or otherwise, unless with written permission endorsed on this policy excepting. the use of refined.
coal, kerosene or other carbon oil for lights, if the same is
drawn and the lamps filled by daylight; otberise this. policy
.shall be null and void."
Attached to and pasted on the face of each policy at the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

time of its issue was a printed slip, signed by the defendant's
agents, and' in these words ":Privileged to use kerosene oil
for lights, lamps to be filled and trimmed by, daylight only"
And on the margin of the first policy were written and signed
by the defendant's agents these words "September 17, 1878,
Privileged to keep not exceeding five barrels of oil on said
premises."
At the first trial, a verdict was returned for the plaintiff,
which was set aside and a new trial ordered by this court.
116 U S. 113.
Afterwards the plaintiff died, and the action was revived in
the name of his executors, and the answer was amended by
leave of court, so as to set up, amQng other defences, as a
breach of the second condition above quoted, "that kerosene,
-carbon oil or other inflammable liquid, so stored, used, kept or
allowed on said premises as aforesaid, was drawn, not by daylight, but at-or after dusk or dark and with a lighted lamp or
lantern near, in violation of the express terms of the said condition, and that the fire which destroyed said premises was
caused by such proximity of said lighted lamp, and the defendant iurther avers that it is advised and believes that the
said policies thereby became and were null and void."
A second verdict for the plaintiffs was set aside by the Circuit Court, for the reasons stated in its opinion reported iu 34
Fed. Rep. 501.
At the third trial, the plaintiffs introduced in evidence the
policies, and renewal receipts continuing them in force until
July 15, 1880, and proved the assured's ownership of the
property insured, and the parties agreed that it was destroyed
by fire on August 15, 1879, and that the amount of the loss,
with interest, was $41,116.64.
The defendant proved by uncontradicted evidence that a barrel -ol about fifty gallons of kerosene was bought by Walker,
the lessee of the premises, on August 13, 1879, and on the next
day put by him in the oil room under the pavilion, which was
a low room about twelve feet square, with doors opening into
other rooms only There was conflicting evidence upon the
question whether any gasoline, naphtha or'benzine was kept in

GUNTHER v. LIVERPOOL INS. 00.
Opinon of -the Court.

the oil room at the time of the fire, It was admitted that in
1878 the pavilion had been lighted by gasoline generated in a
gasometer under the privilege in the first clause of the policy,
but that its use was discontinued in the fall of 1878, and it
was not used in 1879.
The only testimony introduced as-to the cause of the fire
was in substance as follows
The defendant proved that the assured testified at the first
trial, that on August 15, 1879, about dusk, he was seated on
the piazza of the hotel, in sight of the pavilion, and saw some
men with pails and a light, that his attention was attracted
by shouts of children playing about in front, and he immediately looked back again and saw the men come out "as though
they were on fire,"'and it did not occur to him that there was a
fire in the oil room, although he saw it that he called to the
men to roll in the high grass, and one of them did so, and
another ran into the water, and in another instant he saw the
oil room burning, and the building immediately caught fire
and in an hour or less was level with the ground.
The defendant called as witnesses the two men last mentioned, who testified that they had been sent from another
hotel a mile off with two ordinary wooden pails to get five gallons of gasoline that Walker directed one Schuchardt, a man in
his employ, to let them have the oil, that Schuchardt, carrying
a lighted glass stable lantern with small holes around the top,
took them into the oil room, and drew the oil from a barrel,
through a piece of pipe used as a faucet, into the pails, one-of
which leaked, and much oil was spilled upon the floor, that
the lantern was very near the barrel, and presently there was
a blue flame across the floor, and the whole room was in a
blaze of fire, that Schuchatdt got out first, and died of his
burns, that one of the witnesses rolled in the grass and was
little injured, and the other, who ran into the waterj was so
severely burned as to be obliged to keep his bed for three
months.
The defendant moved the court to direct a verdict for-the
defendant, "on the ground that, as the established cause of
the fire was the drawing in the oil room of the insured premVOL. CXxxiv-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

ises about dusk, in the vicinity of a lighted lamp, of a fluid
product of petroleum under the circumstances shown by the
evidence, not for filling lamps on the insured premises, but for
another and different purpose, this of itself, and irrespective
of other questions in the case, constitutes a violation of the
several contracts of insurance in force at the time of the fire,
as contained in the policies respectively, thereby rendering
the said policies and each of them void, and defeating the
right of the plaintiffs to recover in this action."
The plaintiffs requested the court to submit to the jury the
questions "whether there was any naphtha, gasoline or benzine on the insured premises at the time of the fire," ana
"whether the fluid which was drawn from a barrel in the oil
room at the time of the fire was so drawn in the presence of a
lighted lamp."
The court denied the plaintiffs' requests and directed a
verdict for the defendant: The plaintiffs excepted to these
rulings, and sued out this writ of error.
Each of the policies in suit contains two conditions concerning the keeping or use, without written permission in or upon
the policy, of naphtha., gasoline, benzine, or any burning fluid
or chemical oil, upon the premises. By the general terms of
the first of these conditions, the policy is avoided if the-assured
shall "keep or use" any of these articles. By the more
specific provisions of the other condition, the prohibited articles "or any other inflammable liquid are not to be stored,
used, kept or allowed" on the premises, "temporarily or
permanently, for sale or otherwise," except certain articles
named, and for the purpose and with the precautions therein
specified, namely, "excepting the use of refined coal, kerosene
or other carbon oil for lights, if the same is drawn and the
lamps filled by daylight; otherwise the policy shall be null and
void."
The printed slip, bearing the words "Privileged to use kerosene oil for lights, lamps to be filled and trimmed by daylight only," was attached to each policy and delivered with
it, and mutt therefore be construed in connection with and as
part of it, and not as superseding any consistent clause in the

GUNTHER v. LIVERPOO

INS. CO.

Opinon of the Court.

body of the policy It is suggested, that there is an inconsistency between the slip and the exception above referred to.
But the two, upon being compared with one another, disclose
no such inconsistency, and differ only in that the exception
regulates the drawing of the oil, which the slip does not, while
the slip regulates the trimming of the lamps, which the exception does not. Taking the exception and the slip together, the
effect is the same as if they had been incorporated into a single
sentence, so as to permit the use of kerosene or like oil "for
lights, if the same is drawn and the/ lamps are filled and
trimmed by daylight only"
In the exception, as well as in the slip, the words "for
lights" are clearly restricted in meaning to lighten the insured
premises only, and the words "by daylight" are intended, not
to denote day-time as opposed to night-time, but to prevent
the use of any artificial light from which the oil might catch
fire.
The clause written in the margin of one policy, granting a
privilege "to keep not exceeding five barrels of oil on said
premises," cannot reasonably be construed as intending to
dispense with any of the carefully prepared printed regulations concerning the precautions to be taken in handling and
using it.
The clause following the description of the principal buildings in each policy, '" privilege to use gasoline gas, gasometer,
blower and generator being under ground about sixty feet
from main building in vault, no heat employed in process,.
does not affect the case, for the use of the gas apparatus had
been discontinued some time before the fire, and, as has been
already decided, when this case was before us at a former
term, that clause did not sanction the keeping or use of gasoline or other burning fluid except for actual use in that apparatus. 116U. S. 130.
it has also been decided, that a breach of the conditions by
any person permitted by the assured to occupy the premises
was equivalent to a breach by the assured himself; and that
the assured was chargeable with any acts of his lessee in keeping upon the premises any of the prohibited articles, although

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

they were nor intended to be used there, but for lighting
other places. 116 U S. 128, 129.
There can be no doubt, therefore, that both policies were
avoided if kerosene, gasoline or any other carbon oil was
drawn upon the premises near a lighted lamp by any person
acting by the direction or under the authority of the lessee,
and what the particular kind of carbon oil so drawn was, is
quite immaterial.
The testimony of the assured himself, that just before the
fire he saw some men with pails and a light near the pavilion
under which the oil room was, and presently afterwards saw
two of the men come out "as though they were on fire," and
in another instant saw the oil room burning, and the building
immediately caught fire and within an hour was level with
the ground, of itself strongly tended to the conclusion that the
fire was caused by such a breach of the conditions of the policy
But this conclusion was established beyond all reasonable
doubt by the testimony of the two men whom he saw come
out, the substance of which has been already stated, and the
accuracy and credibility of which is not impaired in any essential point by the thorough cross-examination to which they
were subjected at the trial, or by a careful comparison with
their testimony given before a coroner's jury ten days after
the fire, and introduced in connection with their cross-examination.
If the case had been submitted to the jury upon the testimony introduced, and a verdict had been returned for the
plaintiff, it would have been the duty of the court to set it
aside for want of any evidence tc warrant it. Under such
circumstances, it is well settled that the court was not bound
to go through the idle form of submitting the case to the
jury, but rightly directed a verdict for the defendant. Sohofield v Chcago, 3filwaukee & St. Paul Railway, 114 U. S.
615, 619, and cases -there cited, Tobertson v Edelhof, 132 U
S. 614, 626.
Judgment affirmed.

