OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Citations for Plaintiffs in Error.

tend in many instances to substitute a new and different contract for the one which was really. .greed upon, to the prejudicie, possibly, of one of the parties, is rejected." 1 Greenleaf
Ev ยง 215, and authorities cited, WkAte v lVational Bank,
102 U. S. 658, .Metoaof v Williams, 104 U. S. 93, Yartin v
Cole, 104 U. S. 30.
On the whole case we find no material error, and the judgment of the court below is
Afflrmed.

AIRNDT v. GIRIGGS.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 1150. Submitted January 10, 1890. -Decided

March 17, 1890.

A State may provide by statute that the title to rea estate within its limits
shall be settled and determined by a suit in winch the defendant, being a
non-resident, is brought into court by publication.
The well-settled rules, that an action to quiet title is a suit iu equity, that
equity acts upon the person, and that the person is not brought into
court by service by publication alone; do not apply when a State has provided by statute for the adjudication of titles to real estate within its
limits as against non-residents, who are brought into court only by publication.
Hart v. Sansom, 110 U. S. 151, explained.

THIS was an action to recover possession of land and to
quiet title. Judgment for the plaintiff. Defendant sued out
this writ of error. The case is stated in the opinion.
A[r Walter J -Lamb, .Mr Arnott C.Rsoketts and Mr Henry
H. Wilson, for plaintiffs in error, cited Hfolland v Challen,
110 U. S. 15, Watson v. Ulbnc7, 18 Nebraska, 186, Cast"que v Imrwe, 1. R. 4 H. 'L. 414, Burgess v Seligman, 107
U. S. 20, S&udder v Sargent, 15 Nebraska, 102, .Keene v.
Sallenbach, 15 Nebraska, 200, Langdon v Sherwood, 124 U S.
74, Boswell v. Oths, 9 H1 ow 336, Parerv. Overman, 18

ARNDT v. GRIGGS.
Opimon of the Court.

Row 137, Ruling v -Yaw Valley Railway, 130 U. S. 559,

Mellen v. MIoline Iron Works, 131 Y. S. 352, Salisbury v
Sands, 2 Dillon, 270, Blair v West Point AI'f'g Co., 7 Nebraska, 146, 152, Penn v Hayward, 14 Ohio 'St. 302, 304,
Williams v Telton, 28 Ohio St. 451, Fisher v Fredericks,
33 Missouri, 612, W eil v. L-owenthal, 10 Iowa, 575, Brooklyn
Trust C0o. v Bumer, 49 N. Y 84, Beebe v -Dostor,36 Kansas, 666, Gillespe v Twmas, 23 Kansas, 138, Falkenhorst
v. Lews, 24 Kansas, 420, Rowe v Palmer, 29 Kansas, 337,
Entreken v -Howard,16 Kansas, 551, H7oward v. Entreken, 24
Kansas, 428, Cloyd v. Trotter, 118 Ilinois, 391.

Mr Nathan _ Griggs, KWr Samuel Rinaker and Mr
Julius A. Smith, for defendant in error, cited Hfart v. Sansom,110 U. S.151, and cases therein cited, Pennoyer v .Veff,
95 U' S.714, Stang v. Redden, 28 Fed. Rep. 11, 12, Clark v.
Hammett, 27 Fed. Rep. 339, Pitts v Clay, 27 Fed. .Rep. 635,
637, Howardv. Entreken, 24 Kansas, 428, Watson v 1 rtch,
18 Nebraska, 186., Crimes v Hobson, 46 Texas, 416, Dangerfeld v Paschal, 20 Texas, 537, Titus v Johnson, 50 Texas,
224, Johnson v. Bryan, 62 Texas, 623, Eaton v Badger, 33
N. H. 228, Nebraska v Sioux City & Pacfic Railroad,7 Nebraska, 357, Gregory v Lancaster County Bank, 16 Nebraska,
411, Snowden v Tyler, 21 Nebraska, 199.
MR.

-usTicE

BRwER delivered the opinion of the court.

The statutes of Nebraska contain these sections Sec. 57,
chap. 73, Compiled Statutes 1885, p. 483 "An action may 'be
brought and prosecuted to final decree, judgment or order, By
any person or persons, whether in actual possession or note
.claiming title to real estate, against any person or persons,
who claim an adverse estate or interest therein, for the purpose of determining. such estate or interest, and quieting the
title to said real estate." See. 58 "All such pleadings and'
proofs and subsequent proceedings shall be'had in such action
now pending or hereafter brought, as may be necessary to fully'
settle or determine the question of title between the par-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion-of the Court.

ties to said real estate, and to decree the title to the same, or
any part thereof, to the party entitled thereto, and the court
may issue the appropriate order to carry such decree, judgment or order into effect." Sec. 77, Code of Civil Procedure,
Compiled Statutes "1886, p. 637 "Service may be made by
publication in either of the following cases
Fouorth.
In actions. which relate to, or the subject of which is, real or
personal property in this State, where any defendant has or
claims a lien or interest, actual or contingent, therein, or the
relief demanded consists wholly or partially in excluding him
from any interest theren, and such defendant is a non-resident
of the State or a foreign corporation." Sec. 78 of the Code
"Before service can be made by publication, an affidavit must
be fied that service of a summons cannot be made within this
State, on the defendant or defendants, to be served by publication, and that the case is one of those mentioned in the
preceding section. When such affidavit is filed the party may
proceed to make service by publication." Sec. 82 of the Code
"A party against whom a judgment or decree has been rendered
without other service than by publicatibn in a newspaper, may,
at any time within five years after the date of the judgment or
order, have the same opened and be let in to defend,
but the title to any property, the subject of the judgment or
order sought to be opened, which hy it, or in consequence of
it, shall have passed to a purchaser in good faith, shall not be
affected by any proceedings 'under this section, nor shall they
affect the title to any property sold before judgment under an
attachment." Sec. 429, b, of the Code "When any judgment
or decree shall be rendered for a conveyance, release or acquittance, in any court of this State, and the party or parties
against whom the judgment or decree shall be rendered do not
comply'therewith within the time mentioned in said judgment
or decree, such judgment or decree shall' have the same operation and effect, and be as available, as.if the conveyance,
release or acquittance had been executed conformable to such
)judgment or decree."
Under -these sections, m March, 1882, Charles L. Tlint filed
his petition in the proper court against Michael Hurley and

ARNDT v. GRIGGS.
Opmion of the Court.

another, alleging that he was the owner, and in pussession of
the tracts of land in controversy in this suit, that he held title
thereto by virtue of certain tax deeds, which were described,
that the defendants claimed to have some title, estate, interest
m, or claim upon the lands by patent from the United States, or
deed from the patentee, but that whatever title, estate or claun
they had, or pretended to have, was divested by the said tax
deeds, and was unjust, inequitable, and a cloud upon plaintiff's
title, and that this suit -r as brought for the purpose of quieting
his title. The defendants were brought m by publication, a
decree was entered in favor of Flint quieting his title, and it
is conceded that all the proceedings were in full conformity
with the statutory provisions above quoted.
The present ,suit'is one in ejectment, between grantees of
the respective parties to the foregoing proceedings to quiet
title, and the question before us, arising upon a certificate of
division of opinion between the trial judges, is whether the
decree in such proceedings to quiet title, rendered in accordance with the provisions of the Nebraska statute, upon service
duly authorized by them, was valid and operated to quiet the
title in the plaintiff therein. 'In other words, has a State the
power to provide by statute that the title to real estate within
its limits shall be settled and determined by a suit in which
the -defendant, being a non-resident, is brought into court
only by publication 2 The Supreme Court of Nebraska has
answered this question in the affirmative. WPatson v. Ulbrmh,
18 Nebraska, 189 -in which the court says .. "'The principal
question to be determined is whether or not the decree in
favor of Gray, rendered upon constructive service, is valid
until set aside. No objection is made to the service, or any
proceedings connected with it. The real estate in controversy,
was within the jurisdiction of' the District Court, and that'
court ad authority, 'in a proper case, to render 'the decree
confirming the title of Gray
In Castr g.ue v. _mmze, L. R. 4
H. . 414, 429, Mr. Justice Blackburn says ' We think the
niquiry is, first,- whether the subject matter was so situated
as to be within the lpwful control of the State ,under the
authority.of which the court sits, and, secondly, whether the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

sovereign authority of that *State has conferred on the court
jurisdiction to decide as to the disposition of the thing, and the
court has acted within its-jurisdiction. If these conditions are
fulfilled, the adjudication is conclusive against all the world.'
The court, therefore, in this case, having authority to render
the decree, .and jurisdiction of the subject matter, its decree is
conclusive upon the property until vacated under the statutes
or set aside."
Section 51, enlarging as it does the class of cases in which
relief was formerly afforded by a court of equity in quieting
the title to real property, has been sustained by this court, and
held applicable to suits in the federal court. .Holland v
Challen, 110 U. S. 15. But it is earnestly contended that no
decree in such a case, rendered on service by publication only,
is valid or can be recognized in the federal courts. And IJa~i't
v Sansom, 110 U-. S. 151, is relied on as authority for this
proposition. The propositions are, that an action to quiet title
is a suit in equity, that equity acts upon the person, and that
the person is not brought into court by service by publication
alone.
While these propositions are doubtless correct as statements
of the general rules respecting bills to. quiet title, and proceedings in courts of equity, they are not applicable or controlling
here. The question is not what a court of equity, by virtue
of its general powers and in the absence of a statute, might do,
but it is, what jurisdiction has a State over titles to real estate
within its limits, and what jurisdiction may it give by statute
to its own courts, to determine the validity and extent of the
claims of non-residents to such real estate 2 If a State has no
power to bring a non-resident into its courts for any purposes
by publication, it is impotent to perfect the titles of real estate
within its limits held by its own citizens, and a cloud cast
upon such title by a claim of a nou-resident will remain for all
time a cloud, unless such non-resident shall voluntarily come
into its courts for the purpose of having it adjudicated. But
no such imperfections attend the sovereignty of the State. It
has control over property within its limits, and the condition
of ownership of real estate therein, whether the owner be

AINDT

. GIIGGS.

Opinion of the Court.

stranger or citizen,, is subjection to its rules concermng the
holding, the transfer, liability to obligations, private or public,
and the modes of establishing titles thereto. It cannot bring
the person of a non-resident within its limits-its process goes
not out beyond its borders - but it may determine the extent
of his title to real estate within its limits; and for the purpose
of such determination may provide any reasonable methods of
imparting notice. The well-being of every community requires
that the title of real estate, therein shall be secure, and that
there be convenient and certain methods of determining any
unsettled questions respecting it. The duty 6f accomplishing
this is local in its nature, it is not a matter of national
concern or vested in the general government, it remains with
the State, and as this duty is one of the State, the manner of
discharging it must be determined by the State, and no proceeding which it provides can be declared invalid, unless m
conflict -with some special inhibitions of the Constitution, or
against natural justice. So it has been held repeatedly that
the procedure established by the State, in this respect, is
binding upon the federal courts. In United States v -Fox,94:
U. S. 315, 320, it was said "The power of the State to
regulate the tenure of real property within her limits, and the
modes of its acquisition and transfer, and the rules of its.
descent, and the extent to which a testamentary disposition of
it may be exercised by- its owners, is undoubted. It is an
established principle of law, everywhere recognized, arising
from the necessity of the case, that the disposition of inmovable property, whether by deed, descent, or any other
mode, is exclusively subject to the government within whose
jurisdiction the property is situated." See also AoCormwTc v
Sulivant, 10 Wheat. 192, 202, Beauregardv. lew Orleans,
18 How 491., Suydam v Williamson, 24: How 427;- Chrzstian
Vnzon v Yount,101 U. S.352, Lathrop v Bank, 8 Dana, 114.
Passing to an examination of the decisions on the precise
question it may safely be affirmed that the general, if not the
uniform, ruling of state courts has.been m favor ot the power
of the State to thus quiet the title to real estate viithin its
limits. In addition to the case from Nebraska, heretofore
voL. cxxxvw-21

OCTOBER TERM. 1889.
Opmion of the Court.

cited, and which only followed prior rulings m that StateSoudder v Sargent, 15 Nebraska, 102; _eeno v. Sallenbach,

15 Nebraska, 200- reference may be had to a few cases. In
Cloyd v Trotter, 118 Illinois, 391, the Supreme Court of flinois held that under the statutes of that State the court could
acquire jurisdiction to quiet title by constructive service
,against non-resident defendants. A similax ruling as to
jurisdiction acquired in a suit to set aside a conveyance as
fraudulent as to creditors was affirmed in Adams v Cowles,
95 Missouri, 501. In Wunstel v Landry, 39 La. Ann. 312, it
was held that a non-resident party could be brought into an
action of partition by constructive service. In Essg v Lower,
21 Northeastern Rep. 1090, the Supreme Court of Indiana
thus expressed its views on the question "It is also argued
that the decree in the action to quiet title, set forth in the
special finding, is -in2ersonamr and not m rem, and that the
court had no power to render such decree on publication.
While it may be true that such decree is not 'in rem, strictly
speaking, yet it must be conceded that it fixed and settled the
title to the land then in controversy, and to that extent partakes of the nature of a judgment ?n rein. But we do not
deem it necessary to a decision of this case to determine
whether the decree is ,&n ersonam or ?.n rem. The action was
to quiet the title to the land then involved, and to remove
therefrom certain apparent liens. Section 318, Rev Stat.
1881, expressly authorizes the rendition of such a decree on
publication." This was since the decision in Hart v Sansom,
as was also the case of JDillen v HeZler, 39 Kansas, 59,9, in
which Mr. Justice Valentine, for the court, says "For the
present we shall assume that the statutes authorizing service
of summons by publication were strictly complied with m the
present case, and then the only question to be considered is
whether the statutes themselves are valid. Or, in otbe
words, we think the question is this Has the State any
power, through the legislature and the courts, or by any other
means or instrumentalities, to dispose of or control property in
the State belonging to non-resident owners out of the State,
where such non-resident owners will not voluntarily surrender

ARNDT v. GRIGGS.
Opnion of the Court.

jurisdiction of their persons to the State. or to the courts of
the State, and where the most urgent public policy and justice
require. that the State and its courts should assume jurisdiction over such property2 Power of this kind has already
been exercised, not only in Kansas, but in all the other States.
Lands of non-resident owners, as well as. of resident owners,
are taxed and sold for taxes, and the owners thereby may
totally be deprived of such lands, although no notice ]s ever
given to such owners, except a notice by publication, or some
other notice of no greater value, force or efficacy Beebe v
Doster, 36 Kansas, 666, 675, 677, S'. .14 Pac. Rep. 150. Mortgage liens, mechanic's liens, material men's -liens, and other
liens are foreclosed against non-resident defendants upon service by publication only Lands of non-resident defendants
are attached and sold to pay their debts, and, indeed, almost
any kind of action may be instituted and maintained against
non-residents to the extent of any interest in property they
may have m Kansas, and the jurisdiction to hear and determine in this kind of cases may be obtained wholly and entirely
by publication. Gillespe v. Thomas, 23 Kansas, 138, Walkenhorst v. .Lewts, 24 Kansas, 420, Rowe v Palmer, 29 Kansas,
337., 7enable v Dutch, 37 Kansas, 515, 519. All the States
by proper statutes authorize actions against non-residents, and
service of sumbnons therein by publication only, or service in
some other form no better, and, in the nature of things, such
.must be done in every jurisdiction, in order that full and complete justice may be done where some of the parties are nonresidents. We think a sovereign State has the power to do
just such a thing. All things within the territorial boundaries
of a sovereignty are within its jurisdiction, and, generally,
within its own boundaries a sovereignty is supreme. Kansas
is supreme, except so far as its power and authority are limited -by the Constitution and laws of the United. States, and
within the Constitution and laws of the United States the
courts of Kansas may have all the jurisdiction -over all "prsons and .things within the State wwhich the constitution and.
laws of Kansas may giv'e to them, and t.ie mode of obtaining
this jurisdiction may be prescribed. wholly, entirely and exclu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

sivelv by the statutes of Kansas. To obtain jurisdiction of
everything within the State of Kaiias, the statutes of Kansas
may make service by publication as good as any other kind of
service."
Turning now to the decisions of this court In Boswell's
-Lessee v Otis, 9 How 336, 348, was presented a case of a bill
fbr a specific performance and an accounting, and in which
was a decree for specific performance and accounting, and an
adjudication that the amount due on such accounting should
operate as a judgment at law Service was had by publication, the defendants being non-residents. The validity of a
sale under such judgment was in question, the court held that
portion of the decree, and the sale made under it, void, but
with reference to jurisdiction in a case for specific performance alone, made these observations "Jurisdiction is acquired
in one of two modes first, as against the person of the defendant, by the service of process, or, secondly, oy a procedure
against the property of the defendant within the jurisdiction
of the court. In the latter case the defendant is not personally bound by the judgment, beyond the property in question.
And it is immaterial whether the proceeding against the propIt must be
erty be by an attachment or bill in chancery
substantially a proceeding in rem. A bill for the specific
execution of a contract to convey real estate, is not strictly
a proceeding in rem, in ordinary cases, but where such a
procedure is authorized by statute, on publication, without
personal service or process, it is substantially of that character."
In the case of Parker v Overman, 18 How 137, 140, the
question was presented under an Arkansas statute, a statute
authorizing service by publication. While the decision on the
merits was adverse, the court thus states the statute, the case
and the law applicable to the proceedings under it. "It. had
its origin in the state court of Dallas County, Arkansas, sitting in chancery It is a proceeding under a statute of Arkansas, prescribing a special remedy for the confirmation of. sales
of land by a sheriff or other public' officer. Its object' is to
quiet the title. The purchaser at such sales is authorized to

ARNDT v. GIRIGGS.
Opmion of the Court.

institute proceedings by a public notice in .some newspaper,
describing the land, stating- the authority under which it was
sold, and ' calling on all persons ,who can set up any right to
the lands so purchased, m consequence of any informality, or
any irregularity or illegality connected with the sale, to show
cause why the sale so made should not'be conffrmed.' In case
no one appears to contest the regularity of the sale, the court
is required to- confirm it, on finding certain. facts to exist. But
if opposition be made, and it should appear that the sale was
made contrary to law,' it became the duty of the court to
annul it. The judgment or decree, in favor of the grantee in
the deed, operates 'as a complete bar against any and all
persons who may thereafter claim such land, in consequence
of any informality or illegality in the proceedings.' It. s avery
great evil in any community to have titles to land insecure and
uncertain, and especially in new States, -where its result is to
retard the settlement and improvement of their vacant lands.
Where such lands have been sold for taxes there is a cloud on
the title of both claimants, which deters the settler from purchasing from either. A prudent man will not.purchase alaw
suit, or risk the loss of .his money and labor upon a litigious
title. The act now under consideration was intended to remedy
this evil. It is in substance a bill of peace. The jurisdictiou of
the court over the controversy is founded on the presence of
the property; and, like a proceeding tn rem, it becomes conclusive against the absent claimant, as well as the present conOlark v Smith, 13 Pet.
testant. As was said by the court in.
195, 203, with regard to a similar law of Kentucky 'A State
has an undoubted power to regulate and protect individual
rights to her. soil, and -declare what shall form a cloud over
titles, and, having so declared, the courts of the United States,
by removing such clouds, are only applying an old practice to
a new equity created by the legislature, having its origin'in the
peculiar condition of the .country The state legislatures -have
no authority to 1rescribe forms and modes of proceeding to the
courts of the United States, yet having created a right, and at
the same time prescribed the remedy to enforce it, if the remedy
prescribed be substantially consistent with the-ordinary modes

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

of proceeding on the chancery side of the federal courts, -tu
reason exists why it should not be pursued in the same form
as in the state court.' In the case before us the proceeding,
though special in its form, is in its nature but the application of a well-kuown chancery remedy, it acts upon the land,
and may be conclusive as to the title of a citizen of another
State."
In the case of Pennoyer v Nef, 95 U. S. 714, 727, 734, in
which the question of jurisdiction in cases of service by publication was considered at length, the court, by Mr. Justice
Field, thus stated the law "Such service may also be sufficient in cases where the object of the action is to reach and
dispose of property in the State, or. of some interest therein,
by enforcing a contract or lien respecting the same, or to
partition it among different owners, or, when the public is a
party, to condemn and appropriate it for a public purpose.
In other words, such serv.ice may answer in all actions which
are substantially proceedings wim
rem.
It is true that,
in a strict sense, a proceeding =n rem is one taken directly
against property, and has for its object the disposition of the
property, without reference to the title of individual claimants;
.but, in a larger and more general sense, the terms are applied
to actions between parties, where the direct object is to reach
and dispose of property owned by them, or of some interest
therein. Such are cases commenced by attachment against
the property of debtors, or instituted to partition real estate,
foreclose a mortgage, or enforce a lien. So far as they affect
property in the State, they are substantially proceedings in
rem in the broader sense which we have mentioned." These
cases were all before the decision of Hart v Sansom.
Passing to a case later than that, Huling v lZaw F'aley
Railway, 130 U. S.559, 563, it was h6ld that, in proceedings
commenced under a statute for the condemnation of lands
for railroad purposes, publication was sufficient notice to- a
non-resident. In the opinion, Mr. Justice "]1iller, speaking
for the court, says "Of course, the statute goes upon the
presumption that, since all the parties cannot be-served personally with such notice, the publication, which is designed

A N DT-v. GRIGGS.
Opinion of the Court.

to .meet the eyes of everybody, is to stand for such notice.
The publication itself is sufficient if it had been m the form of
a personal service upon the party himself within the county
Nor have we any doubt that this form of warning owners of
property to appear and defend their interests; where it. is
subject to demands for public use when authorized by statute,
is sufficient to subject the property to the action of the tribunals -appolfited by proper authority to determine those matters.
The owner of real estate, who is a non-resident of the State
within which .the property lies, cannot evade the duties and
obligations, which the law -imposes upon him in regard to
such property, by his absence from the State. Because he
cannot be reached by some process of the courts .of the State,
which, of course, have no efficacy, beyond their own borders,
he cannot, therefore, hold his property e),empt from the
liabilities, duties and obligations which the State has a right
to impose upon such property; and in such cases, some substituted form of notice has always been held to be a sufficient
warning to the owner, of the proceedings which are being
.taken under the authority o1 the State to subject his property
to those demands, and obligations. Otherwise the burdens of
taxation and the liability of such property to be taken under
the power of eminent domain, would -be useless in regard to
a very large amount of property in every State. of the Union."
In this connection, it is well, to bear in mind, that by the
statutes of the United States, in proceedings to enforce any
legal or equitable lien, or to remove a cloud upon the title of
real estate,.non-resident holders of real estate may be brought
in by publication, 18 Stat. 472, and the validity of- this statute,. and the jurisdiction conferred by publication, has been
fellen v. .oline Iron Works, 131
sustained by this court.
U S. 352.
These various decisions of this court establish that, in its
judgment, a State has power by statute to provide for the
adjudication of titles to real estate within its limits as against
non-residents who are brought into court only by publication,
and that is all that is necessary to sustain the validity of the
decree in question m this case.

OCTOBER TER1'J, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

iNothing inconsistent with this doctrine was decided in Hart
v Sansom, supra. The question there was as to the effect of a
judgment. That judgment was rendered upon a petition in
ejectment- against one Wilkerson. Besides the allegations in
the petition to sustain the ejectment against Wilkerson, were
allegations that other defendants named had executed deeds,
which were described, which were clouds upon plaintiffs' title,
and in addition an allegation that the defendant Hart set up
some pretended claim of title to the land. This was the only
averment connecting him with the controversy Publication
was made against some of the defendants, Hart being among
the number. There was no appearance, but judgment upon
default. That judgment was, that the plaintiffs recover of
the defendants the premises described, "that the several
deeds in plaintiffs' petition mentioned be, and the same are
hereby, annulled and cancelled, and for naught held, and that
the cloud be thereby removed," and for costs, and that execution issue therefor. This was the whole extent of the
judgment and decree. Obviously in all this there was no
adjudication affecting Hart. As there was no allegation that
he was in possession, the judgment for possession did not disturb him, and the decree for cancellation of the deeds referred
specifically to the deeds mentioned in the petition, and there
was no allegation in the petition.that Hart had anything to do
with those deeds. There was no general language in the
decree quieting the title as against all the defendants, so there
was r -thing which could be construed as working any adjudication against Hart as to his claim and title to the land. He
might apparently be affected by the judgment for costs, but
they had no effect upon the title. So the court held, for it
said "'It is difficult to see how any part of that judgment
(except for costs) is applicable to Hart, for that part which is
for recovery of possession certainly cannot apply to Hart, who
was not in possession, and that part which removes the cloud
upon the plaintiffs' title appears to be limited to the cloud
created by the deeds mentioned in the petition, and the petition does not allege, and the verdict negatives, that Hart held
any deed."

ARNDT v. GRIGGS.
Opinon- of the Court.

An additional ground assigned for the decision was that if
there was any judgment (except for costs) against Hart, it was,
upon the most liberal construction, only a decree removing
the cloud created by his pretended claim of title, and therefore, according to the ordinary and undisputed rule in equity,
was not a judgment sn rem, establishing against him a title
in the land. But the power of the State, by appropriate
legislation, to give a greater effect to such a decree was distinctly recognized, both by the insertion of the words "unless
otherwise expressly provided by statute," and by -adding "It
would doubtless be within the power of the State in which the
land lies to provide by statute that if the defendant is not
found within the jurisdiction, or refuses to make or to cancel a
deed, this should be done in his behalf by a trustee appointed
by the court for that purpose." And of course, it follows that
if a State has power to bring m a non-resident by publication
for the purpose of appointing a trustee, it can; m like manner,
bring him in and subject him to a direct decree. There was
presented no statute of the State of Texas providing directly
for quieting the title of lands within the State, as against nonresidents, brought in only by service by publication, such as
we have in the case at bar, and the only statute cited by counsel or referred to in the opinion was a mere general provision
for bringing in non-resident defendantq.in any case by publication, and it was not.the intention of the court to overthrow
that series of earlier authorities heretofore referred to, which
affirm the power of the State, by suitable statutory proceedings, to determine the titles to real estate within its limits, as
against a non-resident defendant, notified only by publication.
It follows, from these considerations, that the first question
presented in the certificate of division, the one heretofore
stated, and which is decisive 9f this case, must be answered in
the affirmative.
The judgment of the Circust Court is reversed, and the case
remcndedfor further proceedings in accordance wdth the
mews herew exijpressed.

