OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

GORMLEY
APPEAL FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

n. CLARK.

COURT

OF TIlE

UNITED

STATES F01?

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 192.

Submitted January 27, 1890. - Decided March 17, 1890.

Upon the construction of the constitution and laws of a State this court,
ts a general rule, follows the decisions of the highest court of the State,
unless they conflict with, or impair the efficacy of some provision of the
Federal Constitution, or of a Federal statute, or a rule of general commercial law; and this is especially the case when a line of such decisions
have become a rule of property, affecting title to real estate within the
State.
When a Circuit Court of the United States in Illinois obtains jurisdiction
ia equity of a proceeding to establish title to real estate under the act
of the legislature of that State of April 9, 1872, known as the " Burnt
Records Act," in a case within the provisions of the act, it may following
the decisions of the courts of the State, proceed to adjudicate and determine in equity all the issues between the parties relating to the property
as well those at law as tiose in equity; and it is entirely within its di.--.
cretion whether it will or will not send the issues at law to be determined
by a jury.
It is no error in a court of equity to order buildings removed from a tract
of land over which a party to the record has a right of way for ingress
to and egress from his own property.

MICHAEL GOEMLEY,

the appellant, on the 5th day of March.

1874, made a subdivision, into blocks and lots, of certain
property -within the limits of the village of Glencoe, Cook
County Illinois, entitled "Gormley's Addition to Glencoe "
acknowledged the plat before a justice of the peace, and had
it certified to by the county surveyor, and duly recorded in
the recorder's office -of said county He derived title to so
much of the property as is involved in this case under a
warranty deed fron his father, Marcus Gormley, the patentee.
dated May 4, 1861, and recorded in the office of said recorder
June 5th of that year. On the 15th of May, 1877, Gormlev
and his wife executed a trust deed, which was duly recorded.
to one Loeb as trustee, conveying certain blocks and lots ii
Gormley's addition to Glencoe, to secure a promissory note

GORMTEY v. CLARK.
Statement of the Case.

described therein, which trust deed was duly acknowledged,
and released in due form of law all homestead rights of the
grantors in the property conveyed. The premises were subsequently sold under the powers of sale -in the trust deed for
default in-payment, and conveyed by deeds dated September
10, 1878, some of the blocks to Edward Clark, a block and
some of the lots to Sarah J Condon, and some to others.
Edward Clark died October 14, 1882, and Alfred Cormng
Clark acquired title to the portion conveyed to him, as his
sole heir at law On the 29th .day.of March, 1884, Sarah J
Condon conveyed the premises deeded to her to Alfred CornaTg Clark, who, by that conveyance, and as.heir to Edward,
became the owner of blocks 3, 4, 5, 8 to 24 inclusive, and lots
3, 4, 5, 6, 11 and 12 in block 6, in Gormley's addition -to Glencoe, .in the county of Cook and State of Illinois.
By the charter of the village of' Glencoe, it was provided
that printed or written copies of all ordinances passed by the
council of the village should be posted up in at least three of
the most public places therein, within thirty days after their
passage, and should take effect at the expiration of ten days
after such -posting. On the 4th day, of October,. 1881, on a
petition gigned by Michael Gormley, the council of- Glencoe
vacated Adams Street, between Grove Street and Blur Street,,
in Gormley's addition, which ran between blocks S and 9 of
that addition, and upon which Gormley's house, barn and
outbuildings then stood. This portion of the street formed.
the means of ingress and egress to some twenty-four lots in
these'two blocks. The ordlinance was posted and a certified
copy filed in the recorder's office by Gormley on October 17,
1881. On the 3d of January, 1882, the council of Glencoe
passed an ordinance, which was in Gornxey's own handwriting, vacating some ten.streeti and parts of streets in Gormley's
addition, which surrounded the property in controversy, and
the evidence tended to show that -this was -done upon representations- made by. Gormley that he owned the property
through which the streets passed, and. that, at-all events, such
was the belief of the members of- the, council in taking the
action'in question. On th6 12th day/of January, 1882, the vote

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

on the passage of the ordinance was reconsidered, and again
reconsidered on January 24, 1882, and on the 7th of February,
1882, the council passed an ordinance providing "that any and
all ordinances heretofore passed by this council, vacating any
streets or parts of streets in Gormley's addition to Glencoe, or
purporting so to do, are hereby repealed, and all the streets
and parts of streets shown in the first and originally recorded
plat of said addition are hereby declared to be public
streets." The ordinance of January 3, 1882, was never posted
by the clerk, and although the charter required ordinances to
be entered at length in an ordinance book, neither the ordinance
of October 4, 1881, nor that of January 3, 1882, nor any of
the repealing or rescinding resolutions or ordinances, were
entered at length in such book. Shortly after the passage of
the ordinance of January 3, 1882, Gormley applied to the
clerk of the village to post the ordinance, and the clerk
Teplied that he should take the full time allowed him by
law to do so, namely, thirty days. He also applied fc- a
certified copy of the ordinance, but the clerk did not give it
to him. He then copied the minutes of the meeting of January 3, 1882, and posted such copy and made oath thereto,
January 24, 1882, and filed the same on that day in the
recorder's office of Cook County On the 17th of January,
1882, Gormley filed in the Superior Court of Cook County,
Illinois, a petition for a mandamus upon the clerk of the village to immediately post certified copies of the ordinance
passed on January 3, 1882, as required by law and to file for
record, in the recorder s office of Cook County, a duly certified
copy of the ordinance, or to furnih to him (Gormley) a duly
certified copy upon tender of his legal fees. This petition was
answered by the clerk, and a replication filed, and the cause
tried, a jury being waived, by Gary, J., who rendered judgment
dismissing the petition at Gormley's costs. The case was
taken to the Appellate Court for the First District of Illinois,
by which court the judgment of the Superior Court was affirmed. After the commencement of this action, Gormley
sued out from the Supreme Court of Illinois a writ of error to
review th6 judgment of the Appellate Court, and the judg-

GOAIMLEY v. CLARK.

341

Statement of the Case.

ment of that court was thereupon affirmed. Gormley v Day,
114 Illinois, 185.
Gormley sold several lots and blocks of his subdivision to
different parties; put down sidewalks, and threw up various
streets with a plough; street and sidewalk work in the addition
was done l y the village, -and portions of various -streets were
graded anI ditched. After the foreclosure the taxes upon the
premises in dispute were paid by Alfred Corning Clark.
On th6 31st of March,.1884,' Clark filed his petition under
the "Burnt Records Act," so called, Session Laws 1871-2,
652, being chapter 116 of the Revised Statutes of Illinois,
setting up his title to the property in controversy; alleging
the destruction of the records oE Cook County and of his
record title on October 8 and 9, 1871, by fire; the proceedings
of the council of the village of Glencoe, of the clerk, and of
Michael Gormley; and the suits in the Superior and Appellate
Courts, and charging fraud on Gormley's part and threatened
irreparable injury, averring that Gormley was in possession
of petitioner's land and about to destroy its market value by
procuring a vacation of the streets around it, and asking that
council and .clerk be enjoined. Petitioner made the village of
Glencoe, its council and clerk, M ichael Gormley and wife, and
others, who, had claimed some interest mn the property, parties,
"and all whom it may concern," and prayed that the ordinances of October 4, 1881, and January 3, 1882, be declared
null and void and of no effect whatsoever, and for a decree
confirming and establishing his title in fee simple to the
lots and blocks mentioned as aforesaid. and that 'he be put
in possession, and that the village, its council and clerk, be
restrained from passing or posting any ordinance or ordinances
vacating streets or parts of streets adjoining petitioner's lots
and blocks. Many of the defendants defaulted, and some answered, including Gormley and wife, upon whose answer the
only questions ih issue here arose. Upon hearing, the court
entered a final decree in favor of Clark, adjudging that be
was, at the date of filing the petition, vested with title in fee
simple absolute to the premises in dispute, and confirming andestablishing the same, that Gormley.was estopped from claiz-n

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Appellant.

ing any informality or defect in the plat of his addition to
Glencoe,. that he and his wife had no homestead rights in any
of the lots and blocks decreed to Clark, or in any streets or
parts thereof on which any of the said lots or blocks abutted,
as against said Clark, his representatives, heirs and assignsthat the ordinance of January 3, 1882, was null and void,
that title to that portion of Adams Street, between Grove
Street and Bluff Street, was vested in Gormley, but subject
to an easement in the use of it by said Clark, his heirs, legal
representatives and assigns, as the owner of lots or parts of
lots abutting thereon, that said Gormley and wife remove
from that portion of Adams Avenue on or before a date named,
and in default of such removal the marshal remove the buildings thereon located, and that possession of the property in
dispute be surrendered to petitioner. The decree dissolved
a preliminary injunction which had been granted against the
village and its authorities, and awarded no relief in respect to
them.
From this decree Gormley appealed to this court, and assigned as errors (1) that the court erred in not dismissing the
bill for want of equity, (2) that petitioner had a complete
and adequate remedy at law, and a court of chancery had no
jurisdiction, (3) that the court erred in decreeing void the
ordinance vacating said streets in said Gormley's addition to
Glencoe, (4) that the court erred in decreeing that said Michael
and Eliza Gormley remove their house, barn and shop from
said portion of Adams Avenue, between Grove and Bluff streets,
(5) that the court erred in decreeing -to the petitioner an easement in the right of use of Aaams Avenue, between Grove and
-Bluff streets, as a street, by said petitiouer, (6) that the court
erred in decreeing the petitioner entitled to the possession of
said lots and blocks in said petition described, (7) that the
court erred in decreeing that the appellant surrender up possession of said streets, lots and blocks to the petitioner.
I

-.Mortrn Culver and M, Xillard F kiggle for appellant.

Ttie Burnt Records Act was passed for the purpose of establishing and confirmmg titles to property -the title of which

GORiMLEY v. CLARK.
Argument for Appellant.

had become insecure by the great Chicago fire. It was not
intended to take the place of ejectment proceedings, and deprive
a. man of his right of trial by jury, except in cases where the
remedy at law was inadequate, or -when the prime purpose of
the petition was to establish the title to real estate rendered
thus insecure.

When the prime purpose of the petition is to evict a man
from premises he is in the adverse occupancy of, a court of
chancery will, by right, refuse its aid when the remedy isadequate in a court of law
The trust deed from Gormley, its foreclosure, and the subdivision and ordinance complained of, are all acts which have
occurred since the fire, and so far as the rights of the petitioner
were concerned he could have obtained them without any
evidence relating back to the fire. The right to possession
being purely a question for a jury, a court of chancery should
have refused to take jurisdiction. Levis v Cocks, 23 Wall.
466, irilliam v .Eblnngha., 110 U S. 568, Fussell v Gregg,
113 U. S. 550.
The Supreme Court of Illinois has decided that under the
Burnt Records Act, a complainant out of possession may file a
petition against a defendant.in possession, but these cases can
be regarded in no other light than in special instances when
the remedy at law is inadequate.
This doctrine is in conflit with the entire principle of equity
practice. for under the general principles of chancery jurisdiction to remove a cloud or to-confirm or establish titles, a complainant out of possession could not file a petition against a
defendant in possession, and if the act in question can be sustained only on the ground that it applies.to all cases,.regardless
-of the question, "Ii there an adequate remedy at Jaw 2 " then
the act is unconstitutional because it would deprive the defendant of his right to trial by jury The constitutionality of the
act can be sustained on the principle that 'it is only intended
to supply a loss when courts of law have not the remedY to
grant the relief sought. See Rolland v Ohallen, 110 U S. 15..
There was no relinquishment or waiver of the homestead o
said M1ichael Gormley, it being-fliat part of Adams Avenue.

OCTOBER TERM:, 1889.
Counsel for Appellee.

between Grove and Bluff streets, upon which tins house and
barn stand, and where he has resided for over forty years, and
the court clearly erred when it decreed said Gormley to
surrender up possession and remove his buildings therefrom,
or be evicted by the United States marshal. The homestead,
unless expressly wawved, would be paramount to any easement
that appellee could have ever acquired. The Circuit Court
expressly decrees the legal title to said slip of ground in
'Michael Gormley Under what process of reasoning, can it
decree away the homestead which he has never relinquished
or abandoned ?
The petitioner out of possession and the appellant in possession, it cannot be said that appellant obstructed the street.
To have acquired an easement it was necessary for appellant
to be in possession of the property, to which, and from which,
he claimed the right of easement of the appellant's premises.
In Cooper v Detroit, 42 Michigan, 584-, it is held that where
a highway has been extinguished, it can only be renewed in
the same way that would turn other lands into public highways. After the passage of the ordinance vacating the streets
the fee reverted immediately to the appellant. The acts of
the village in this respect were either legal or illegal. If legal,
no court has the power to set them aside. If illegal they are
void; and would be so held by a court of law, and consequently there is no necessity fur resorting to a court of equity
The decree goes further than the petition or bill will warrant. There is no prayet or-allegation contained in the bill
warranting the- court to decree-the appellant to surrender the
possession of the strip of land occupied by him as a homestead.
The bill or petition seeks the possession .of'vertain lots and
blocks, and not the intervening space between any such lots
or blocks, and I submit to this honorable court, without
further argument, that under the prayer for general relief, a
court cannot legally decree one party to surrender to another
the possession of lana not specifically asked in the bill.
.Mr C

r&le E. Pope, -fr Alexander HCoyand Xr Charm8

ff. .f6Coyg or appellee.

GORMLEY v. CLARK.
Opinion of the Cout.
M.

CHEF JusTICE FuLLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinibn of the court.
Upon the 8th and 9th of October, 1871, a memorable conflagration destroyed a large part of the city of Chicago, including the court-house and the-entire records of the county of Cook,
in the State of Illinois, in which the city of Chicago was
situated. An act was thereupon passed by the general assembly of that-Stafe, appro" ed April 9, 1872, to remedy the evils
consequent upon the destruction of public records. Laws Illinois 1871-2, p. 652, which act is now chapter 116 of the
Revised Statutes of Illinois. 2 Starr and Curtis, 1993. That
act provided that in case of such destruction, the courts of
the county wherein it occurred, having chancery jurisdiction,
should have power to inquire into the condition of any title to
or interest m any laiid: in such county, and to make all such
orders,.judgments and decrees as might be necessary to determine and establish said title or interest, legal or equitable,
against all persons known or unknown, and all liens existing
on such lands, whether by statute, mortgage, deed of trust or
otherwise, that it should be lawful for any person claiming
title to any lands in the county at the time of the destruction
of its records, and for all claiming under such person, to file a
petition in any court in the county having chancery jurisdiction, praying for a decree establishing and confirming his said
title, which petition should set out the character and extent of
the estate in the land in question claimed by the complainant
or petitioner, and from whom and when and by what mode
he derived his title thereto, the names of all persons owmng
or claiming any estate in fee in, or who should be in possessio
of, said lands or any part thereof, and also all persons to whoik
.any such lands had been conveyed, and the deed or deeds -of
such conveyance recorded in the office of recorder of deeds
since the time of destruction of the records and prior to the
filing of the petition, and their residences, so far as the same
were known, that all persons so named in the petition should
be made defendants and notified of the suit by summons or
publication in the same manner as required in chancery pro-

Vk-LOBER TERM, 1889.
Ogimion of the Court.

ceedings m the State, unknown owners or claimants to be
brought in under the designation of "to whom it may concern, " that any person interested might oppose the petition,
demur to or answer it, or file a cross-petition if he desired to
do so, and that the decree entered in the proceeding should
be, as to the title found, forever binding and conclusive, except
against minors and insane persons, and persons in possession
or to whom the. lands had been conveyed and the deeds
recorded since the destruction of the records and prior to the
filing of the petition, and not made parties defendakt by name.
The act also contained various provisions in protection of
married women, insane persons and minors, and all defendants
not served with summons were given one year after entr-y of
decree to ask its vacation on petition, and the rules and regulations governing courts of chancery in Illinois were declared
to apply to proceedings under the act, so far as not inconsistent therewith.
By numerous decisions of the Supreme Court of the State of
Illinois it has been determined that a petition to establish title
under what is known as the "Burnt Records Act," need not
show that the petitioner was in possession of the land or that
it was vacant and unoccupied, as reqmred in a bill to quiet
title, the.act authorizing 'the petitioner to make all parties in
possession or claiming an interest in the land parties defendant
to the petition, creating a clear and marked distinction between a case of this character and such a bill that the court
is authorized and required to-investigate the interest of all the
parties in the premises in question, and to decree in favor of
the better title, that all that is required in respect to adverse
clainants or their titles is. that such claimant shall be named
in the petition and made defendant, that nothing more is re(juired to give the court jurisdiction under the statute to investigate the claims of title to the premises, and by its decree
establish and confirm the title in the person in whom it is
found to be vested, and to make all such orders, judgments and
decrees as shall be necessary to that end ,.that decrees so entered are, as to the title so found, forever -binding and conclusive between the parties, that the statute was in effect a

GORMLEY v. CLAR"
Opinion of the Court.

statute of limitations, and under the circumstances was not
unreasonable, but demanded as a matter of safety in a great'
emergency; that it -was not open to the objection of unconstititionality, because not providing for trial by jury or otherwise; and that the question. whether a jury should be allowed
could not arise unless a jury was demanded. Gage v Caraher,
125 Illinois, 447, leaoock v Hdsmer, 109 Illinois, 245, Heacock v lubu7ce, 107 Illinois, 396, Rbbnson v. Ferguson, 78
Grant, 119 Illinois, 606, Bertrandv
Illinois, 538, Bradish G
Taylor, 87 Illinois, 235.
The subject received much consideration from- Judge Blodgett, holding the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Illinois, in Smith v Gage, 1-1 Bissell, 217, 220, in which he announced substantially the same conclusions. And he remarks,
"that the court, on the final hearing of such a case, may, in
its discretion as a court of equity, where two conflicting titles
are presented, the validity of which can be determined in a
court of law, by .the express terms of its decree, remit the
parties holding such titles to a court of law for the trial of
their rights, but this would be purely a matter of equitable
discretion, and does not limit the power of the court in this
proceeding to settle the entire title by-its .defree." In Gage v'Oaraker, ubi, supra, the Supreme Court of Illinois says
"Whatever may be the power of the court of chancery, where
there are controverted titles, to restore, by its decree, the evidences of title in tho respective parties as they were before
the destruction of the record, and then, in its discretion, remit
the parties to a court of law to there try their titles, it is.
manifest no such course was coiitemplated by the statute, or
necessary in cases under it." p. 452. In Ward v Farwell, ,7
Illinois, 593, 613, in passing upon the right to -demand a tril*
by jury in the particular instance there in hand, it is justly
observgd "Where a new class .of'cases are,. by legislative
action, directed to be tried as chancery causes, it must appear
that, when tested by the general principles of equity, they
are of an equitable character, and -can be more appropfiately
tried in a court. of equity than m. a court of law And if of
this character, when brought in a court of equity they stand-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

upon the same footing with other causes, and the court will
have the right, as in other cases, to determine all questions of
fact without submitting them to a jury"
Upon the construction of the constitution and laws of a
State, this court, as a general rule, follows the decisions of her
highest court, unless they conflict with or impair the efficacy
of some provision of the Federal Constitution, or of a Federal
Norton v
statute, or a rule of general commercial law
is
so
where a
And
this
425,
439.
U.
S.
Shelby County, .118
course of those decisions, whether founded on statutes or not,
have become rules of property within the State, also in
regard to rules of evidence in actions at law, and also in
reference to the common law of the State, and its laws and
customs of a local character when established by repeated
decisions. Burgess v Seligman, 107 U S. 20, Bucher v
Cheshire Railroad Company, 125 U S. 555. Substantially
conclusive effect is given to such dedisions upon the construction of state statutes, as affecting title to real estate within
the State. Ridings v Johnson, 128 U. S. 212, Bacon v
Northwestern Insurance Co., 131 U. S.258, Hanriek v Patrick, 119 U. S. 156, 169.
And while the rule is thoroughly settled that remedies in
the courts of the United States are at common law or in
equity, according to the essential character of the case, uncontrolled in that particular by the practice of the state courts,
tew Orleans v Louizana Construction Co., 129 U S.45, 46.
yet an enlargement of equitable rights by state statute may
be administered by the Circuit Courts of the United States as
well as by the courts of the State, and when the case is one
of a remedial proceeding, essentially of an equitable character,
there can be no objection to the exercise of the jurisdiction.
Brodertik Will Case, 21 Wall. 503, 520, Holland v Challen,
110 U. S.15, 25, Frost v Sztley, 121 U S. 552, 551.
Tested by the conclusions of the Supreme Court of Illinois,
the principal contention on appellant's behalf cannot be sustained. The record of the patent and the deed from the patentee to Michael Gormley had been destroyed, and the deed,
which it turned out on this hearing was in Gormley's posses,

GORMLEY v. CLARK.
Opinion of the Court.

The petitioner was entitled
to the establishment of the record by the proceeding authorized under the statute, and, when the, court had once acquired
jurisdiction, it could go on and adjudicate upon. all claims to
the property in controversy, as therein provided. The character of the litigation sufficiently indicates that the petitioner
legitimately invoked the aid of the statute.
It is strenuously insisted that the remedy at law was adequate, and that- as the right of possession wa purely a legal
question and for a jury, the court of chancery should have
declined jurisdiction, but, inasmuch as the case came within
the provisions of the statute, and equity coulcl alone afford
the entire relief sought, the fact that dngal questions were
also involved could not oust the court of -jurisdiction. The
jurisdiction in equity attaches unless -the.legal remedy, both
in respect to the final relief and the mode of obtaining, it, is
as efficient as the remedy which equity would afford under
the same circumstances, .01bou r v Svnderland, 130 U. S.
505, 514:, and it is quite clear that under this statute the
restoration of the record title is a matter essentially of equitable cognizance, while the declaration of the invalidity of
the ordinance of January 3, 1882, the removal of the cloud
caused by recording a copy thereof, and the abatement of the
obstruction to the streets, were matters in respect to which,
under the averments of the petition and the evidence adduced
at the hearing, the petitioner could properly resort to a court
of equity Undoubtedly the rule that a bill may be retained
for the purpose of granting full relief when jurisdiction exists,
should not be abused by being employed as a mere pretext for
bringing into chancery causes proper for a court of law; hut
under the local law, this could not be predicated of a petition
which the petitioner was entitled to file under the "Burnt
Records Act," and, as already stated, we administer, where
adverse citizenship gives us jurisdiction of a case, the equitable
relief which state legislation accords.
It is objected that there was error in the direction for the
removal of -the buildings from the portion of Adams Street
between blocks eight. and nine, in disregard of the homestead

sion, had never been re-recorded.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889..
Opinion of the Court:

rights of appellant and his wife; but we do not think soWhether the plat was a statutory plat or not, as to which
some issue is made by the answer, the proofs establish such a
dedication as created an easement m the petitioner, the ex.istence of which Gormley was estopped to deny, and which
the court was justified in protecting. .Maywood Co. v Viilage of afaywood, 118 Illinois, 61, Zinc Company v City of La
Salle, III Illinois, 411, ldtler v City of _Lncoln, 106 Illinois,
353', Hamilton v Chscago, Burlington f c. Railroad, 124
Illinois, 235.
The right of way, as appurtenant to these blocks and lots,
passed to the purchasers under the sale upon the trust deed,
which was executed by Gormley and his wife, and by which
both had released therhomestead claim, and the. decree ,recognized the fee as still in-Gormley subject to the burden
thus imposed. Trickey v Schader, 52 Illinois, 78, Zittle v
Pfejffer, 22 California, 485.
As to the remaining errors assigned, we are of opinion that
the court correctly held the second ordinance duly annulled,
and the easement as existing in the petitioler, so far as respected the property described in the.first of the two ordinances referred to, and properly granted the writ of assistance
to put the petitioner into possession of 'his 'blocks and lots as
prayed, and while the bill did not specifically pray for similar
relief in respect to the streets m question, such relief was
agreeable to the case made by the bill, and could be awarded
as within the prayer for general relief. The writ of assistance was simply in effectuation of the decree, and was in accordance with the recognized practice in equity and the ninth
equity rule. We are satisfied upon the whole case that the
Circuit Court committed no error, and the decree will therefore be

Affirmed.

