LITTLE v. BOWERS.
Syllabus.

land, does not in any case reach the amount necessary to give
us jurisdiction to entertain the appeal. In no case is it $5000.
In Fud _vairte Phn= Insurance Co., 117 U. S. 367, 369,
Chief Justice Waite, delivering the opinion of the court, said.
".The rule is well settled that distinct decrees against distinct
parties on distinct causes of action, or on a single- cause of
action in which there are distinct liabilities, cannot be joined
to give this court jurisdiction on appeal," citing a long list
of authorities. The question-was finally put at rest in Gibson
v. S7&ufeldt, 122 U. S. 27,-where, after a thorough examination of the subject, on principle, and an exhaustive review of
the authorities bearing upon it, the court sustained a motion
to dismiss an appeal similar in all its essential features to the
motion in this case, and in concluding its opinion said. "This
result, as we have seen, is in accordance with a long series of
decisions of this court, extending over more than half a century During that period Congress has often legislated on
the subject of our appellate jurisdiction, without changing the
phraseology which had received judicial construction. The
court should not now-unsettle a rule so long established and
recognized." (pp. 89, 40.) See, also, -McM rarv .Moran, at
this term, ante, 150.
It is not necessary to multiply authorities upon a point so
well settled. Neither do we think any of the points made by
the appellants, in their. brief, in opposition to the motion to
dismiss, are well taken.
The motion to dismss the apealzs granted.

LITTLE v. BOWERS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF ERRORS AN]D

APPEA.LS. OF THE STATE OF

NEW JERSEy.
No. 194. Argued on the nerits January30,1890.. Motion to dismiss submitted March 3,
1890.-Decided April 7, 1890.

The voluntary payment of a municipal tax while a suit"is pending in this
court between the party taxed and the officers of tbe "crporation, to

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.
determine whether it was legally assessed, leaves no existing cause of
action, .and requires the dismissal of the writ of error.
Robertson v. Bradbury, 132 U. S. 491, distinguished from this case.
The fact that there is no controversy between the parties may be shown at
any time before the decision of tile case; and there is no laches in delaying to bring it before the court until after argument heard on the
merits.

TH case, as stated by the court in its opinion, was as
follows
This was a writ of o t'wrars issued out of the Supreme
Court of the State of New Jersey, on the 6th of November,
1882, at the instance of Henry S. Little, receiver of the Central Railroad Company of New Jersey, a corporation of that
State, commanding Samuel D. Bowers, comptroller of the city
of Elizabeth, and the city of Elizabeth, to certify and send to
that court their proceedings relative to an assessmnent of certain taxes made by that city upon real property of the company within the city limits, particularly described in the writ,
for the year 1876.
Upon the hearing of the case in that court, the investigation
extended to like assessments made by the city for the years
1877 to 1882, inclusive, and the judgment of the court was,
that the assessments should stand affirmed. That judgment
having been affirmed by the Court of Errors and Appeals of
the State, this writ of error was prosecuted. The federal
question involved was as to whether these assessments impaired the obligation of a contract which the company claimed
existed between it and the State by virtue of an act of the
state legislature, approved March 17, 1854, and were, therefore, violative of sec. 10, art. 1, of the Constitution of the
United States.
After the argument of the case in this court upon its merits,
the defendants in error were given leave to file briefs, a privilege of which they availed themselves; and they also.filed a
motion to dismiss the writ of error. This motion was based
upon the following grounds
First. Because the taxes levied on the property of the company in the city of Elizabeth in and for the years 1876 to

LITTLE v. BOWERS.
.Statement

of the Case.

1882, inclusive, being the same taxes mentioned in the record
in this cause, have been paid and satisfied in full since the-writ
of error was issued, together with the costs in the case.
Second. Because the writ of error is being prosecuted by the
plaintiff in error for the sole purpose of obtaining the opinion
of this courL as to the validity of an alleged contract on the
subject of taxation b6tween the State of New Jersey and the
compaiy, and the State is not a party in the form or sense in
which a party in interest must be a'party to a litigation in
order to be bound by the judgment of the court.
Third. Because the plaintiff in error does not owe a.y taxes
to the city of Elizabeth, to Samuel D. -Bowers, the former
comptroller of the city, or to any existing officer of the city,
nor does the company owe any. sum of money to the city for
taxes.
Fourth. Because all claims for taxes heretofore, made or
*held by the city of Elizabeth, or any officer thereof, against
the Central Railroad Company of New Jersey, or the property
of the company, or. any receiver of it, have been adjusted,
compromised, and paid in full, voluntarily, by the railroad
company or its appropriate officer or representative.
The motion was supported by a number of affidavits of the
tax officers of the city of Elizabeth, including the present compFrom these
troller and the commissioners, of adjustment.
affidavits it appeared that, during the year 1887, by virtue of
a statute of the. State, passed in 1886, the commissioners ofadjustment for the *cityof Elizabeth readjusted and reduced,
to a considerable extent, the taxes levied by the city upon the
property of the railroad company for the years 1876 to 1882,
inclusive, and also for the year 1883,. that, during the progress of that revision and readjustment, H. W Douty, real
estate.agent of the company, appeared before the commnissioners, from time -to time, and urged the reduction of the claims of
the city for taxes against the property of the company, that
after tho adjustment had been completed, the taxes were paid
by the railroad company, before interest on them began to
accrue under the act by virtue of- which the adjustment was
made, that no warrant was issued or other step or proceeding

OCTOBER TER1M, 1889.
Argument against Motion to dismiss.

taken by or on the part of the city for the collection of the
taxes prior to the time of payment, nor could any proceedings
have been taken to enforce their payment for several months
thereafter, and that no protest against the payment, or objection thereto, was made by the company, or any person
acting on- its behalf. It appeared that, during the progress of
the readjustment, the commissioners committed an error by
Including therein certain taxes for the years 1884, 1885 and
1886. Douty requested them by letter to correct that error,
saying, "if this is done I am satisfied the adjustment will be
promptly paid after confirmation." The correction was made
as requested, and the taxes thus readjusted and reduced - the
same -taxes here in dispute -were paid by the company, as
above set forth.
As regards the costs of the proceedings in the court below,
it seems they were paid under the following circumstances
After the judgment of the Court of Errors and Appeals had
been rendered, an entry was made upon its record, reciting
the fact that the judgment of the Supreme Court had been
affirmed at the costs of the plaintiff in error, and further ordering that the record, and proceedings be remitted to the Supreme Court of the State, to be proceeded with in accordauce with law and the praotice of the court. As the counsel
for-the plaintiff in error supposed that that form of the judgment would preclude the taking of a writ of error from this
court, by an arrangement between counsel for both parties,
the record was changed to its present form, and the costs in
the case were then paid by the plaintiff in error.
.Mr Robert IF .Delrest (with whom were Xr. George R.
.Hoercher and .Hr Benyam " Williamson on the brief,) for
plaintiff in error, argued the case on the merits on the 30th
of January, 1890.- On the 3d March, 1890 i a motion to dismiss on the part of the defendant in error having been submitted, they submitted therewith their brief m opposition
thereto, in which they contended
I The court will not entertain a motion to dismiss, made
after argument, when a suit has been pending in this 6ourt for

LITTLE v. BOWERS.
Argument against Motion to dismiss.

more than three years to the knowledge of all parties and
their counsel, and all the causes alleged for dismissal have
existed for more than two years. No excuse is offered for
these laohes.
IL It is conceded that this court will dismiss a fraudulent
or collusive case, in which there is no real controversy besween
the parties, as where the plaintiff and defendant were son and
son-in-law having common interests, but interests adverse to
third parties, which they sought to. affect by a collusive judgment, Lord v YFeazw, 8 How 251, or where the appellant
purchased the interest of the appellee pending argument, and
the appeal was conducted by couns6l employed and paid by
him with the view to affect adversely the interests of others
not parties to the suit. Cleveland v. Chamberlan,1 Black, 419.
This is not such a suit. The controversy is real and substantial. This suit was deliberately selected as a test case for this
controversy with the knowledge of defendants' attorney, -r
Bergen, and with the knowledge of the Attorney General of
the State of New Jersey, because it was the first suit in which
this contract question was raised in the courts of New Jersey,
the suit in which it was decided, and the suit which could be
most rapidly brought before this court for a final decision.
III. It is conceded that when taxes have been voluntarily
paid, actions cannot be maintained to xecover them back, but
that principle does not affect the taxes now in controversy,
because these taxes were paid partly as a condition of appeal
to the courts on the very ground raised by this suit, and
partly after suits were commenced to test their legality on this
ground, to avoid sale of lands under- a summary act which
vested the fee simple in the purchasers. They were made
before suit brought, only when imposed by the court as a
condition for being permitted to bring them, and after suit
brought, only to save property from sale in the absence of any
stay or possibility of getting one. The duress under, which
payments were made, and the intention of the railroad to contest the validity of the taxes and not to acquiesce in them,
could not be more apparent. Payment under such circumstances cannot be deemed to abate this suit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

IV This suit has never been settled: The judgment from
which the :Railroad Company appeals stands unsatisfied just
as it did the day after this appeal was taken, and taxes have
been paid in the absence of any stay, only to prevent a sale
which would vest absolute title in its purchaser under the law
Had any settlement of this controversy been intended, surely
this judgment would have been satisfied, and dismissal of this
writ asked for and consented to. How could any protest
against the validity of these taxes be more emphatic than the
commencement and pendency of this litigation, and how could
the, claim of the Railroad Company for special taxation under
its contract be more plainly asserted than in this proceeding2
How is it possible that the city of Elizabeth, or its counsel,
supposed that such involuntary payment settled this controversy unless at least they applied to the Railroad Company
to discontinue this appeal, or at least moved to dismiss the
writ, more than two, years ago, when the occurrence took
place ? Certainly, the Railroad Company never supposed for
a moment that it must permit judgment against it to be executed as a condition of maintaining its right to appeal. Payment of the taxes in controversy, as a condition of appealing
from them, is like hanging a man before he has been tried,
but to allege the hanging as a reason for denying him the
poor satisfaction of a trial after execution is a depth of injustice hardly conceivable under lynch law
.1r Frank -Bergenfor defendant in error. INo brief being
filed at the hearing on the merits, the counsel was allowed one
week in which to file one. On the 24th of February he filed
the motion to dismiss and a brif in support of the same, both
of which were submitted to the court on the 3d March.
M

. JusTion LA!ArA_,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the coupt.
As opposed to this motion, there is no denial of the fact
that the taxes in dispute have been paid. It is insisted, however, that such payment was not voluntary, but, was made
under duress, as the only means of avoiding execution, and

LITTLE v. BOWERS.
Opimon of the Court.

that payments were made before suit brought only when imposed by the court as a condition for being permitted to brihg
suit, and after suit brought, only to save property from sale
in the absence of any stay or possibility of getting one. But
an examination of the affidavit of the principal attorney for
the railroad company, filed here, discloses the fact that the
taxes which are referred to in this connection are the taxes
assessed for the years 188d: to 1887, inclusive. In the case of
those taxes, the proceedings for their collection were regulated
by an act of the N~ew Jersey legislature passed in 1884, which,
in its 16th section, provided that if any company should
desire to contest the validity of any tax levied thereunder,
such contest should be made by certiorar, which might be
granted "on such terms as the justice or court granting the
writ may impose."
But that act and the proceedings-for the collection of taxto
under it are in nowise b*efore the court in this case. In the
nature of things the proceedings -which the attorney describes
could not-have applied to the collection of the taxes for the
years 1876 to 1882 inclusive, for this suit which relates to them
was disposed of by the Supreme Court of the State long before the act of 1884 was passed. There is nothing in the
record to show that the 'payment of the. taxes in dispute was
inposed by the court as a -condition 'precedent to the company's right -to bring suit. to test their legality In fact, no
such condition. was imposed, or could 'have been imposed,
when this suit was brought, for there was no statute of the
State at that time giving any such power to the court.
In respect to the taxes here in dispute, it is claimed that
they were also paid involuntarily, because, under the readjustment act of 1886; the readjustment made by the commissioners was "final and conclusive upon all persons, became
immediately due, was collectible by the comptroller without
interest, if paid within sixty days, and if not paid within six
months, it was made the comptr6ller's mandatory duty to sell
the -lands assessed, at public auction, to the highest -bidder,
and the purchaser at such sale obtained title by fee-simple
absolute."

OCTOBER-TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

We do not think the payment of the taxes, under the circumstances detailed in the affidavits before referred to, and
admitted substantially by plaintiff in error, was an involuntary
payment, or-a p. 'ment under duress, within the meaning of
the law In Wabaunsee County v Walker, 8 Kansas, 431, 436,
cited with approval in Lamborn v County .Comm ssoners, 97
U. S. 181, and also in R-ailroad Co. v. Commtsswners, 98 U S.
541, 543, it was said "Where a party pays an illegal demand with a full knowledge of all the facts which render
such demand illegal, without an immediate and urgent necessity therefor, or unless to release his person or property from
detention, or to prevent an-immediate seizure of his person or
property, such payment must be deemed voluntary, and cannot be recovered back. And the fact that the party, at the
time of making the payment, files a written protest does not
make the payment involuntary"
The case in 98 U. S- supra, was a suit by the Union Pacific
Railroad Company to recover taxes it had paid upon certain
of its lands granted to it by Act of Congress. The lands
had been assessed by the county in which they lay for
general and local taxes, and in due time the tax lists, with
warrants attached for their -collection, were delivered to the
treasurer of the county The warrants authorized the treasurer, if default should be made in the payment of any of the
taxes charged upon the list, to seize and sell the personal
property of the persons making the default, to enforce the
collection. Under the law of Nebraska no demand of taxes
was necessary, but it was the duty of every person subject to
taxation to attend the treasurer's office and make payment.
The company paid the taxes before any demand had been
made for their collection, and before any special effort had
been put forth by the treasurer to enforce their collection,
at the same time filing with the treasurer a written protest
against their payment, for the reason that they were illegally
and wrongfully assessed, and were unauthorized by law, and
gave notice that suit would be instituted to recover back the
money paid. In delivering the opinion of the court, MVr. Chief
Justibe Waite said "The real question inthis case is, whether

LITTLE v. BOWERS.
Opinion of the Court.

there was such an nmnediate and urgent necessity for the
payment of the taxes in controversy as to imply that it was
made upon compulsion. The treasurer had a warrant in his
hands which would have authorized him to seize the goods of
-the company to enforce the collection. This warrant was in
the nature of an execution running against the property of
the parties charged with taxes upon the lists it accompanied,
and no opportunity had been afforded the parties of obtaining
a judicial decision of the question of their liability As to this
class of cases Chief Justice Shaw states the rule, in P'esto%v
Boston, 12 Pick. 1j, 14, as follows: ' Where, therefore, a .party
not liable to taxation is called on peremptorily to pay upon such
a warrant, and he can save himself and his property in no other
way than by paying the illegal demand, he may give notice
that he so pays it by duress and not voluntarily, and by showing that he is not liable, recover it back as money had and
received.' This, we think, is the true rule, but it falls far
short of what is required in this case. No attempt has been
made by the treasurer to serve his warrant. lie had not evenpersonally demanded the taxes from the company, and .certainly nothing had been done from which his intent could be.
inferred to use the legal process he held to enforce the collection, if the alleged illegality of the claun was made known to
him. All that appears is, that the company was charged
upon the tax lists with taxes upon its real and personal property in the county After all the taxes had become delinquent
under the law, but before any active steps whatever had been
taken to enforce their collection, the company presented itself
at the treasurer's office, and in the usual course of business
paid in full everything that was charged against it. accomnpanying, the payment; however, with-a general protest against
the legality of the charges, and a notice that suit would be
commenced, to recover back fhe full .amount that was paid.
No specification cf alleged illegalify was made, and no particular property designated as wrongfully included in the
assessment of the taxes. The protest was in the most general
terms, and evidently intended to cover every defect that
might thereafter be discovered, either ii the power to tax or

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Coirt.

Under such cirthe manner of execu(ing the power.
cumstances we cannot hold that the payment was compulsory,
in such a sense as to give a right to the present action." See,
also, Dillon on Mumcipal Corporations, §§ 94-1-947, and cases
there cited.
The reasoning of the court in that case applies equally to
the facts of this. In no sense do we think the payment of
the taxes in suit was made under duress. Their payment,
under the circumstances above set forth, was in the nature of
a compromise, by which the city agreed to take, and the company agreed to pay, a less sum than was originally assessed.
The effect of this act was to extinguish the controversy between the parties to this suit.
This case is clearly distinguishable from -Robertson v. Bradbury, 132 U. S. 491. In that case the jury, by returning a
verdict in favor of the plaintiff, virtually found that he had
been compelled to pay the illegal duties assessed against his
goods by the collector of the port at New York in order to
get possession of them from the collector. Here there is no
question as to the seizure of goods at all. The lands which
had been assessed were still in the possession and under the
control of the railroad company No warrant had been issued
against them, and no active steps had been taken by the city
to enforce the collection of the taxes assessed, nor could any
such proceedings have been resorted to by the city for at least
several months thereafter. Moreover, the question of the
validity of the taxes was involved in pending litigation.
It is true that the judgment of the court below stands unsatisfied except so far as relates to the costs, which, as before
stated, have been paid, but that is immaterial, inasmuch as
the controversy upon which that judgment was rendered had
That -in effect satisfied the judgment.
been extinguished.
Neither the affirmance nor the reversal of that judgment
would make any difference as regards the controversy brought
here by this writ of error. It matters not that the taxes from
1884 to 1887, inclusive, were paid under duress. They-are m
nowise before the court, and according to the showing of the
plaintiff in error they differ materially from the taxs in dispute in tbls case.

LITTLE v. BOWERS.
Opinion of the Court.

It is well settled, that when there is no actual controversy,
involving real and substantial rights, between the parties to
the record, the case-will be dismissed. In Lord v Teazze, 8
How 251, a writ of error was dismissed by this court where
it appeared from affidavits and other evidence by persons not
.partiesto the sut that there was no real controversy between
the plaintiff and defendant, but that the suit was instituted to
procure the opinion of this court upon a question of law, in
the decision of which they had a common interest opposed to
that of other persons, who were not parties to the suit, and
had uio knowledge of its pendency in the Circuit Court. Chief
Justice Taney in delivering the opinion of the court said. "It
is the office of courts of justice to decide the rights of persons
and of property, when the persons interested cannot adjust
them by agreement between themselves - and to do this upon
the full hearing of both parties. And any attempt, by a mere
colorable dispute, to obtain the opinion of the court upon a
question of law which a party desires to lcnow for his own
interest or his own purposes, when there is no real and substantial controversy between those who appear as adverse parties to the suit, is an abuse which courts of justice have always
reprehended, and treated as a punishable contempt of court."
In Cleveland v Chamberlmn, 1 Black, 419, the rule laid
down in Lord v 1Teazze, supra, was adhered to, and held
applicable to a case in which it appeared that the appellant
had purchased and taken an assignment of all the appellee's
interest in the decree appealed from, and the appeal was
dismissed.
In WFood Paper CJo. v 11ft, 8 Wall. 333, an appeal upon a
bill for the infringement of a patent was dismissed, it having
been made to appear to the court that, after the appeal, the
appellants had purchased a certain patent from the defendants under which the defendants sought to protect themselves; and that the defendants, as compensation, had taken
stock in the company which was the appellant in the case.
And it was further held that the fact that damages for the
infringement alleged in the bill had not been compromised
did not affect the propriety of the dismissal.

OCTOBER TERA , 1889.
Opinion of -the Court.

In San .Mateo County v Southern Paojlo Railroad Co., 116
U S. 138, a writ of error was dismissed where it appeared
that the taxes assessed against the company had been paid to
the county after the suit had been commenced, the court resting its judgment upon the reason that there was no longer an
existing cause of action infavor of the county against the railroad company. To the same effect see Henkn v Guerss, 12
Easty247, in re R. J Elsam, 3 B. & 0. 597, Smith v Junction Railway Co., 29 Indiana, 546 Freeholderg of -Essexv
Freeholdersof Un n, 44 N. J Law, 438.
A further defence urged against this motion is laches. It
is urged that the facts upon which it is based were known to
the defendants an error at least two years ago, and that any
objection to the writ of error should have been made before
the argument of the case upon its merits. It as also insisted,
incidentally, that the motion was filed m violation of professional courtesy, inasmuch as it was through the intercession
of the attorney for the plaintiff- in error that an extension of
time was allowed the defendants in error within which they
could be heard on brief, after the argument on the merits.
We do not think, however, the question of laches has any
bearing upon this question. The fact that there is no controversy bet wee. parties to the record ought, m the interest of a
pure administration of justice, to be allowed to be shown at
any time before the decision of the case. Any other rule
would put it in the power of designing persons to bring up a
feigned issue in order to obtain a decision of this court upon
a question involving the rights of others who have had no
opportunity to be heard.
If, as is contended on behalf of the plaintiff m error, the
question involved in this 6ase is one of great imrportance to
the railroad company and- to the State, and is identical with
that in a number o other cases pending in the court below,
so much the more 'important is it that it should not be decided
in a case where there is nothing in dispute. Nor is it material
that the case was selected by the plaintiff in error .nd agreed
to by the defendant in error before the writ of error was prosecuted, as one in which the question of taxation under the

