OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

a it may, there was no restriction as to material. Operation
in metal would, of course, demand variations in organization,
but not necessarily anything more than would result from the
experience of the intelligent mechanic.
The Springs did not claim a combination of a slotted guide
cam, an adjusting screw, a spring, guiding rods, etc., with a
former, a cutting tool, a rest, and a griping chuck, and as it
stands the claim was, in the existing state of the art, for an
analogous or double use, and not patentable.
The Circuit Court was clearly right, and its decree is
Afflrmed.

GLENN v. FANT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIANo. 357. Argued March 11, 1890.- Decided March 24, 1890.

A stipulation was filed in this cause to the effect that the court should consider the cause as if the general issue and other named pleas had been
-pleaded and issue joined, that the cause should be heard upon " an
agreed statement of facts annexed with leave to refer to exhibits filed
therewith;" and that the cause might be submitted to the court to decide
on such statement, exhibits and pleadings. No bill of exceptions was
taken, there was no finding of facts by the court below, nor was any case
stated by the parties, analogous to a special verdict, stating the ultimate
facts, and presenting questions of law only; Held, that this stipulation
could not be regarded as taking the place of a special verdict, or a special finding of facts, aid that this court had no jurisdiction to determine
the questlons of law thereon arising.

-THIs was an action at law.commenced in the Supreme Court
of-the District of Columbia by the plaintiff in error against the
defendant in error on thb -llth day of December, 1883, to recover certain amounts, for the payment of which the defendant
was alleged to be liable upon an assessment levied on shares of.
stock in the National Express and Transportation Company of
Virginia, held by him.
The defendant demurred to the declaration, but subse,quently it was agreed that the demurrer should be overruled,

GLENN1

v. FAWT.

Statement of the Case.

and a stipulation was filed to the effect that the court should
consider the cause as if there had been pleaded the general
issue and certain other pleas in the stipulation named, and as
if issue had been joined thereon, that the cause should -be
heard upon an "agreed statement of facts,"'annexed as part
of the stipulation, with leave to any party to refer to Exhibits
X and Y, therewith filed, that a jury was thereby waived,
that the cause might be submitted *to the court to hear and
decide upon said agreed statement of facts, exhibits and pleadinags, and that either party might "rely upon any and all
grounds of action or defence arising from said agreed statement of facts, exhibits and pleadings." The statement referred to was to the effect that the defendant was a subscriber
for and assignee of the number of shares of the capital stock
of the National Express and Transportation Company of Virginia in respect of which he was sued, that a certain deed of
trust was as set forth in the record, therewith filed, marked
Exhibit X, that Exhibit X was -the record of a certain cause
between W W Glenn and the National Express and Transportation Company of Virginia, in the Chancery Court of the
city of Richmond, in the State of Virginia, afterwards removed into the Circuit Court of Henrico County, Virigmia, .and
that on the .8th day of August, 1866, one Reynolds, claiming to
be a stockholder of said company, filed his bill against said company in the Circuit Cburt of the United States for the Eastern
District of Virginia, and certain proceedings were therein had,
as would appear from the record in that cause, 'filed and marked
Exhibit Y It was agreed that the laws of the State of Virginia
might be referred to as a part of the statement of facts, and certain other matters of fact were set forth, not material to be repeated here.
The cause came on at special term, the demurrer was overruled, and the stipulation fied "with an agreed statement of
facts thereto annexed, and with exhibits, marked 'IX' and
'Y,'" and thereupon the cause was certified to the general
term of the court to be heard there in the first instance, "upon
said stipulation and agreed statement of facts thereto annexed
and exhibits therewith filed and the pleadings, in accordance

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

with the provisions of the stipulation aforesaid." A heating
was accordingly had at general term, and judgment rendered
in favor of the defendant with costs, and the plaintiff sued out
a writ of error from this court.
.Ar CAarles .Marshall and .Ar John Howard for plaintiff

in error. ir Henry Wise Garnett and -3fr Conway Robnson, Jr., also filed a brief for plaintiff in.error.
_Y- Walter D Davzdge and Air Afartin F
fendant in error. Mr Eugene Carus- and Xr

rorrts for de
_Regsnald Fen,

dale were also on the brief for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JusTicE FULLEiR

delivered the opinion of the

court.
No bill of exceptions was taken in this case, nor was there
any finding of facts by the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, nor any case stated by the parties analogous to a
special verdict and stating the ultimate facts of the case, presenting questions of law only What is styled here an "agreed
statement of facts" is an agreement as to certain matters, and
that the parties might refer to and rely upon any and all
grounds of action or defence to be found in two voluminous
exhibits, marked X and Y, being the records of two equity
causes in other .courts, including all the pleadings and evidence, as well as the orders and decrees therein. The effect of
some of that evidence and of the conclusions of fact to be
drawn from it is controverted. It is impossible for us to
regard this stipulation as taking the place of a special verdict
of a jury, or a special finding of facts by the court, upon which
our jurisdiction could properly be invoked to determine the
questions of law thereon arising. And while the case is governed by the rule laid down in Campbell v Boyreau, 21 How
223, yet, even if the 9tatutory provisions in relation to the trial
of causes without the intervention of a jury by the Circuit
Courts of the United States were-applicable, the result upon
this record would be the same.

Rasmond v Terrebonne Par-

