OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

ELWELL v. FOSDICK.
A.PPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE N01-11ERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 216. Argued March 19, 20, 1890.-Decided March 31, 1890.

The holder of $14,000 out of $955,000 of railroad bonds secured by a mortgage was permitted by the Circuit Court to appeal to this court, in the
name of the trustee an the mortgage, from a decreerwhich it was claimed
affected the interest of such holder. It appearing that some time before
the appeal was taken the trustee had executed a release of his right to
appeal, and of errors in the decree, and that the court had, in the decree,
found that there was no proof showing that the trustee had not acted il
good faith. Held, that the release bound all the bondholders represented
by the trustee; that it was properly brought before this court, though
not found in the transcript of the record; that the appeal was the
appeal of the trustee; and that, on the motion of the appellee, it must be
dismissed.

THIS case grows out of procebdings which took place in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District
of Illinois, in the suit of William R. Fosdick and James D
Fish, mortgagees in trust, against The Chicago, Danville and
Vincennes Railroad Company and others, wherein this court,
in Chtcago & Vincennes Railroad v Fosdick, and The Same
v Hutdekoper, 106 U. S. 47, on the appeal of the railroad
company, had under review decrees made by the Circuit
Court m the cause.
The suit -was brought March 27, 1875, to foreclose a mortgage executed by the company, on March 10, 1869, to Fosdick
and Fish astrustees, to secure $2,50Q,000 of bonds. The defendants m be bill were the railroad company and James W
Elwell, one of the two trustees, (the other being the said
James D. Fish,) in a second mortgage executed by the company December 16, 1872, to secure $1,000,000 of convertible
bonds. Elwell,. ast3uch trustee, filed a cross-bill, May 17, 1875,
setting up a default in the payment of interest on the bonds
secured by the second mortgage, and praying for a foreclosure
of it. A receiver was appointed, May 20, 1875, and an

ELWELL v. FOSDICK.
Statement of we Case.

amended bill was filed by Fosdick and Fish, September 14,
1875. Answers were filed by the.company and by Elwell to
the amended bill, and answers to the cross-bill of Elwell by
the company and by Fosdick and Fish. The cause was referred to a master, whose report, made June 24, 1876, sustained the allegations of the original bill, and fixed the amount
due under the mortgage to Fosdick and Fish and also that
due under the mortgage to Elwell. A decree of 'foreclosure
and sale was entered on the 5th of December, 1876. The
property was sold under that decree by a master, February '7,
1877, and was purchased by Hudekoper and others, a qommittee of the first-mortgage bondholders, the purchase price
being $1,450,000. The purchasers paid m cash $362,500, being.
one-fourth of their bid, and petitioned the court, on February.
17, 1877, to be allowed to discharge the remainder of their
bid by surrendering $2,315,000 of the first-mortgag. bonds
held by them, and to be let into possession of the property
On.the 23d of February, 1877, Elwell answered this petition
denying the right of the purchasers to a deed, on the ground
that, as the statute of Illinois provided for a redemption at
any time within fifteen months after the sale, he ought to be
allowed that time in which to redeem from the sale. The
master made to the court a report of the sale, the court con'firmed the report on the 12th of April, 18V[, and, on the 16tb,
of April, 1817, the master reported that he had executed a
deed to the purchasers. They conveyed the property, on. the
28th of August, 1877,to The Chicago and Nashville Railroad
Company, a corporation which had been organized on the 7th
of February, 1877, and which, on the 28th of August, 1817,
was consolidated with an Indiana corporation, by the name
of The Chicago and Eastern-llinois Railroad Company
The. decree of foreclosure, made December 5, 1876, was rt,versed by this court, by its decision in 106 U. S., and the mandate thereon, dated May 17, 1882, was filed in the Circuit
Court on the 25th of May, 1882. The grounds of the-reversal
were, that it was not shown that default in the paymer. tof
interest on the bonds had been continued for six months prior
to the filing of the bill, nor that the trustee received a written

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

request from the holders of a majority of the bonds to commence proceedings for foreclosure, as provided by the terms of
the first mortgage.
After the cause returned to the Circuit Court, and on the
7th of July, 1882, Fosdick and Fish filed an amended and supplemental bill, setting forth (1) that there had been default,
continued more than six months after presentation and demand, in the payment of interest coupons on the first-mortgage bonds, and (2) that a majority of the bondholders, being
the holders of more than 92 per cent of all the outstanding
bonds, had in writing demanded that the trustees immediately
declare the principal of the bonds due and payable, and obtain
a final decree to appropriate the net proceeas of the sale of
the property, as such sale was confirmed, to the payment of
the first-mortgage bonds and interest thereon. But immediate
foreclosure, for the full amount of principal and interest was
prayed for. The Chicago, Danville and Vincennes Railroad
Company demurred to the amended and supplemental bill,
and petitioned the court to appbint a receiver to take possession of the property out of the hands of The Chicago and
Eastern Illinois Railroad Company
The Chicago and Eastern Illinois Railroad Company was
made a party defendant to the suit. It answered the amended
and supplemental bill, and on the 6th of December, 1882, filed
its cross-bill against The Chicago, Danville and Vincennes Railroad C.ompany, Fosdick and Fish, trustees, and Elwell, trustee.
The material -allegations of this cross-bill were as follows
The purchasers at the master's sale were bona fide purchasers
at an open sale, which was attended with much competition, and
the property brought a full and fair price. The sale was reported by the master and was confirmed by the court, and neither The Chicago, Danville and Vincennes Railroad Company
nor Elwell had ever filed exceptions to the report or appealed
from the decree of confirmation. Nearly all of the $362,500
paid by the purchasers at the master's sale bad been paid out
to creditors of The Chicago, Danville and Vincennes Railroad
Company, under decrees of the court. A large part of that
aihount was contributed by the holders of Indiana Division

ELWELL v. FOSDICK.
Statement of the Case.

bonds, who were strangers to the record and innocent purchasers for value. On September 1, 1877, The Chicago and
Eastern Illinois Railroad Company issued, negotiated and put
in general circulation $3,000,000 of 6 per cent bonds, secured
by a trust deed on the property so purchased at the sale, and
on December 1, 187', issued $1,000,000 of income bonds. The
Chicago and Eastern Illinoia Railroad Company had also issued
$3,000,000 of capital stock, and by consolidation with the
Danville and Gxape Creek Railroad Company had incurred an
additional bonded debt of $.Y50,000. By means of certain
perpetual leases The Chicago and Eastern Illinois Railroad
Company had acquired additional railroad, and had also built
certain branches, and procured additional rolling stock. The
appeal from the. foreclosure decree of December 5, 1876, was
not prayed until October 30, 1878, and was not perfected until
January 29, 1879. During the five years which intervened
between the purchase of the property by Huidekoper and
others, on the 7th of February, 1877, and March 6, 1882, when
the decree of foreclosure of December 53 1876, was reversed
by this court, the $4,000,000 of bonds and $3,000,000 of capital stock issued by The Chicago and Eastern Illinois RailroadCompany, on the faith of its title to the property, had been
largely dealt in on the stock exchanges of Boston and New
York, and had so far changed ownership that, on March 6,
1882, when the decree of foreclosure was reversed, nearly all
.the bonds and a majority of the stock were owned by strangers to the litigation, who had purchased in good faith for full
value.
The prayer of the cross-bill was that the title of The Chicago and Eastern Illinois Railroad Company, and of its stockholders and bondholders, to the property be forever quieted,
as against The Chicago, Danville and Vincennes Railroad Company, Fosdick and Fish, and Elwell, and that it be decreed
that .The Chicago and Eastern Illinois Railroad Company had
acquired a good title in fee simple absolute as against each of
the defendants.
Answers were filed to the cross-bill by each of the defendants, and replications to such answers; and, on a reference,. a

OCTOBER TERM, 1zsi,.
Statement of the Case.

master took a large amount of testimony on the issues joined,
and filed the same, with his report, on the 9th of June, 1884.
On the 24th of June, 1884, The National City Bank of
Ottawa, Illinois, a corporation, filed .apetition as the owner
and holder of $14,000 of the oonvertible-mortgage bonds of
The Chicago, Danville and Vincennes Railroad Oompany, secured by the mortgage to Fish and. Elwell, praying to be made
a party -defendant to the suit, and to be allowed to file an
answer in the suit, on the ground that Elwell was not properly
protecting the rights of the bank m the premises.
The case was heard on all the pleadings and proofs, before
Judge Blodgett, and on the 30th of June, 1884, a decree was
entered finding the equities of the cause in favor of the original plaintiffs as against all the defendants except the Chicago
and Eastern Illinois Railroad Company, and also finding the
equities of the cause in favor of the latter company by reason
of the matters set forth in its cross-bill, as against all of the
defendants thereto. The decree also contained the following
provisions: "By virtue of the original deed of Henry W
Bishop, master in chancery, dated April 16, 1877, to Huidekoper, Shannon and Dennison, and the confirmation thereof
by this court, and by the subsequent conveyance by said Huidekoper, Shannon and Dennison to the Chicago and Nashville
Railroad Company, on August 28,,1877, and the subsequent consolidation between the Chicago and Nashville Railroad Company and the State Line and Covington Railroad Company, on
August 28, 1877, as set forth in its cross-bill, the Chicago
and Eastern Illinois Railroad Company acquired a perfect and
indefeasible title to all and singular the Illinois Division of said
Chicago, Danville and Vincennes Railroad, as hereinbefore
specifically described, and also as described in' said master's
deed of April 16, 1877, reference being thereto had, free and
clear of all lien, claim, title or equity of any kind whatever of
said William R. Fosdick, James D. Fish, James W Elwell, R.
Biddle Roberts, and the Chicago, Danville and Vincennes Railroad Company, or either of them, or any of the bondholders,
stockholders or creditors of said Chicago, Danville and Vincennes Railroad Company, or any persons claiming by or

ELWELL -v. FOSDICK.
Statement of the Case.

And it is further
under it or any of- said trustees. ..
ordered that the petition of the National City Bank of Ottawa,
Illinois, fied herein on the 24th day of June, 1884, for leave
to intervene herein as holders of certain. second-mortgage
bonds of said Chicago, Danville and Vincennes Railroad Company, be dismissed at the cost of said petitioner, it appearing
to the court that the trustees under said second mortgage are
parties to this suit and -have appeared and answered herein,
and that there is no pr of showing that said trustees are not
acting in good faith."
On the 11th of October, 1884, The National City Bank of
Ottawa prayed the Circuit Court for leave to prosecute. an
appeal in its own name to this court from the decree of June
30, 1884, the grounds of its prayer being the facts set forth in
its intervening petition of June 21, 1884, and also the fact.
that such decree was entered by consent of -all the parties to
the record, including Elwell, notwithstanding the effect of the
decree was to leave the bank wholly without remedy on itsbonds, while other holders of like bonds .were provided for by
a secret agreement, with the knowledge and consent of Elwell,
and against the protest of the bank, and that Elwell had refused to appeal from such decree.
On the 3d of August, 1885, the court made an order authorizing the bank to appeal from the decree of June 30, 1884, in
the name of James W Elwell, trustee, onexecuting to him an
indemnity against all costs and expenses which might be incurred. The appeal thus allowed was not perfected, but on
the 28th of June, 1886, the court entered an order which recited the fact that the bank. had requested Elwell, as trustbe,
to perfect an appeal to-this court from the decree of June 30,
1881, and that he had rdfused to comply with such request,
and ordering that the bank have leave to appeal from that
decree to this court, in the name of Elwell, as trustee, on condition that it should give a bond. to indemnify Elwell, and on
the further condition that the bank, or some one in its behalf,
should give the usual appeal bond, in the sum of $1000, both
of .said bonds to-be filed on or before June 30, 1886. Those
bonds were duly filed, and the transcript of the record was

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

filed in this court on October 18, 1886, and an addition thereto,
by stipulation between the parties, on January 14, 1S90.
The appeal bond runs to Fosdick and Fish, trustees, "for the
use and benefit of themselves and for the use and benefit of
each and all parties affected or to be affected by the appeal in
The
the condition hereunder written to this obligation."
bond recites that the appeal is from the decree of June .30,
1884, made on the original and supplemental bills of Fosdick
and Fish, the cross-bill of Elwell, the cross-bill of The Chicago
and Eastern Illinois Railroad Company, and another cross-bill.
The Chicago and Eastern Illinois Railroad Company now
moves to dismiss the appeal of Elwell, trustee, by The National. City Bank of Ottawa, on the ground, among others,
that Elwell, trustee, on the 16th of October, 1884, before the
appeal was allowed, executed and delivered to the Chicago
and Eastern Illinois Railroad Company, a written release of all
errors had or committed in and concerning such decree, and
especially releasing and waiving his right as such trustee to
appeal from the decree, which release, on the 15th of November, 1884, was filed in the office of the clerk of the Circuit
Court. A duly certified copy of such release is presented to
this court as part of the moving papers. Its execution and
authenticity are not denied on the part of the bank. It is
entitled in the bill filed by Fosdick and. Fish, and in the crossbill brought by The Chicago and Eastern Illinois Railroad
Company It contains this statement.
"Comes now James W Elwell, trustee, etc., one of the defendants in the above entitled cause and cross-cause, and says
that of the one million convertible mortgage bonds referred
to in said original bill, secured by trust deed, of which he is
sole trustee, as therein charged, forty-five of said bonds, of
one thousand dollars each, have not been issued by the company, and are now deposited with the clerk of said court.
Fifty-eight of said bonds, representing fifty-eight thousand
dollars, were issued in exchange for coupons, under the funding contract or scheme referred to in said original bill and
decree. That all of said coupons have been paid out of the
proceeds of sale of said railroad and property, as provided by

ELWELL v. FOSICK.
Argument against the Motion.

said decree. And that, the. holders of six hundred and seventeen of the balance of said bonds, amounting to six hundred
and seventeen thousand ddllars, do not desire further litigation
in said cause and cross-cause, and that the holders of the balance of said bonds have hitherto declined to contribute to the
cost of this litigation, or to protect him, as such trustee,
against loss or the payment of costs or counsel fees. Now,
therefore, the said James W Elwell, trustee, as in said trust
deed provided, representing the bondholders in said deed mentioned, for himself as such trustee, releases all errors whatsoever had or committed in or concerning the decree entered in
the aforesaid cause and cross-cause by said court on the thirtieth (30th) day of June, A.D. 1884, and in and about the proceedings in said cause leading to .said decree, and especially
releases all his right, as such. trustee, of appeal from said decree and proceedings, without intending, however, to prejudice
the right of the holders of any of said convertible mortgage
bonds to enforce the payment of their said bonds, or any part
-thereof."
Mr TV 1. Lyford for the Chicago and Eastern Illinois
iRailroad Company, one of the appellees, in support of the
motion to dismiss.
Mr Charles -l. Osborn and 2Arf
appellant, opposing.

&tmuel A. Zynde, for the

The decree from which thtis appeal is prosecuted was not a
joint decree within the meaning of the rule requiring all of
the parties against whom a j6int decree shall be rendered to
joni in the appeal.
The general rule, that all of the parties against whom. a
joint decree or judgment is rendered must, join in the appeal
or writ of error, is clearly stated in the decisions of this court,
which are cited by counsel in the argument upon this point.
The reasons upon which this rule is founded are first fully
stated in Owzngs v. .Incannon, 'r Pet. 399, 402. The court
there says: "Upon principle, it would seem reasonable that

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument against the Motion.

the whole cause ought to be brought before the court, and
that all the partes who are.untted bn mterest ought to unite m
the appeal." Since that decision, it is said in Simpson v
Greeley, 20 Wall. 152, 15'
"The question has frequently
been presented to this court, and has uniformly been deter
mined m the same way, where qt appearedthat the snterest was
jo'nt.
Where the interest is joint and the interest of
all is affected by the judgment, the rule is universal that all
"
must join in the writ oferror.
In all of the cases where this rule is stated and applied, it is
clearly announced that the rule exists only where the decree
or judgment is joint, and the rule is held to.have no application when the interest of the parties is not joint, and they are
not jointly affected by the decree. Simpson v. Greeley, 20
Wall. ub? supra, Germatn v fason, 12 Wall. 259, Forgay
v Conrad, 6 How. 201, Brewster v Wakefield, 22 How 118,
128, Milner v ffeek, 95 U S. 252, Railroad v Joohnson, 15
Wall. 8.
If the trustees under the first mortgage and the Danville
company should have joined in the appeal from this decree,
the order of the Circuit Court allowing this appeal amounts to
a sufficient severance of the parties to authorize the prosecution of this appeal in the name of Elwell alone.
.There is no strict technical proceeding, that must be followed
to work a severance of parties against whom a joint decree is
rendered, so as to authorize an appeal by one of the parties.
In Mfasterson v Herndon, 10 Wall. 416, 418, the court says
"We do not attach importance to the technical mode of proceeding called summons and severance. We should have held
this appeal good if it had appeared in any way by the record
that Maverick had been notified in writing to appear, and
that he had failed to appear, or, if appearing, had refused to
join." The court further says that there should be a written
notice and due service, or the record should show the appearance and refusal, and that the court on that ground granted
an appeal to the party praying for it as- to his own interest.
See also O'-Dowd v Russell, 14 Wall 402, Sage v Central
Railroad (o., 93 U S. 412.

ELWELL v. FOSDICK.
Argument against the Motion.

By the execution of releases of error, waiving all right to
appeal, the trustees in the first mortgage, the trustee in the
chattel mortgage and the Danville company, had, at the time
when the iational City Bank was granted leave .to prosecute
this appeal in the name of its trustee, Elwell, estopped themselves from prosecuting an .appeal or joining with the appellant in this appeal. These releases of error worked a severance of any joint interest or right to appeal, and the appeal
was properly allowed in the name of Elwell alone.
We contend that the decree is not joint, and that Elwell
had separate and distinct interests in the controversy, which
were affected by the decree, and that he n6t only could appeal
separately from the decree, but in order to have that portion
of the decree reviewed which finds in favor of the trustees
under the first mortgage, he had to. appeal separately, that
the order granting this appeal was made on notice to all parties, and with all parties present in court, so that a severance
was effected, if that was necessary, and that the other parties
have, by -theirreleases of error and waiver of right to appeal,
voluntarily made a severance.
Elwell had no power or authority as trustee in the second
mortgage to release errors in the foreclosure proceedings and
decree, and to waive the right to appeal from the decree. His
attempt to release errors, and waive the right to appeal, was a
gross breach of trust and clearly outside of the power and
duties conferred upon hun by the trust deed, and it cannot
bar the right of the NVational City Bank as holder of bonds
secured by the trust deed to him, to prosecute by leave of court
this appeal in his name, or furnish good reason for dismissi~g
this appeal.
The second ground, urged in support of this motion, th*
Elwell's release of errors and waiver of right to appeal bars
the prosecution of this appeal, seems to us so utterly unreasonable and inequitable as to require but little argument.
We cannot denounce Elwell's conduct, in this matter in
strong enough terms, so gross was the breach of trust which
he attempted to perpetrate.
It appeared as a matter of record um'this cause at the time

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument against the Motion.

when this alleged release of errors was filed and put on record,
that this bondholder, now prosecuting this appeal, had sought
to become a party to the cause before the decree because of
its belief and fears ot Elwell's bad faith that it had served
notice and request on Elwell to take an appeal, and had offered
him all protection and indemnity against costs, expenses or
damages and had afterwards petitioned the court to be allowed to appeal on its own behalf because of Elwell's collusion
and breach of trust. The proposition that Elwell could come
into court and by releasing errors and making a formal waiver
of the right to appeal, cut off the rights and equities of any of
his cestuw que trust, who did not give their express consent
to this action, is monstrous, and all the more so when the
record shows that the bondholder, to defeat whose rights this
attempted release is used, expressly charged the trustee with
bad faith and breach of trust, and sought the privilege of becoming a party to the cause in order to protect itself against
him and to assert its rights in its own name.
A trustee can neither waive the lien given him by the trust
deed, nor the right to enforce that lien, and thereby deprive
the cestut que trust of the benefit of the. security and lien
or estop and bar him from enforcing it. Nor can he by his
assent, release or waiver estop his cestuz que trust from prosecuting an appeal under the authority of the court in his name,
any more than he can assent for his cestuzque trust to a diversion of the trust estate or a waiver of the lien. He has no
personal right or title, but acts purely in a representative
capacity If he acts in good faith and within the powers
vested in him, whatever binds him in any legal proceedings
which he may begin and carry on to enforce the trust, binds
his cestuz que trust, and whatever forecloses the trustee, in the
absence of fraud, forecloses the bondholders. Rtchter v
Jerome, 123 U S. 233, 246. But he cannot foreclose the
bondholders by refusing to enforce the trust, or by waiving the
right to appeal from the decree that may be rendered adverse
to their interests. Nothing short of the express consent of all
of the holders of bonds secured by his trust deed could warrant
the trustee to attempt to release errors or waive the right to

ET WELL v. FOSDIOK.
Opunon of the Court.

appeal, and wnatever action he may attempt m that regard
is fruitless against any bondholder who does not consent.
We wish bezore concluding to make this further suggestion.
Elwell's release closes with the statement "Without intending, however, to prejudice the right of the -holders of any of
said convertible mortgage bonds -to enforce the payment of
their said bonds or any parr thereof." It is evident, therefore,
that the release itself, even if within his power to execute, is
wh6lly nugatory so far as having any -effect upon this appeal
is concerned. The appellant here is holder of certain of these
bonds who has been given leave by the court to prosecute this
appeal and use Elwell's name for that purpose, and the release
cannot be considered as including this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFoRD, after stating the case as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.

It is contended for the bank that Elwell had no authority,
as trustee me.the second mortgage, to release errors m the fore,closure proceedings or in the decree and to waive the right to
appeal from the decree, that his attempt to do so was a
breach of trust, and outside of the powers and duties conferred
upon him by the trust deed, and that the release does not, bar
the right of the bank, as the holder of bonds secured by the
trust deed to Elwell and Fish, to prosecute this appeal-by the
leave of -the couit, in the- name of Elwell, ngr furnish any
reason for dismissing it. In the petition of intervention filed
by the bank on the 24th of June, 1884, six days before the
final decree was entered, it was alleged " that, neither before
the rendition of the final decree in this cause in this court, nor
after its reversal by the supreme- court, has the said Elwell
shown any diligence or attempted to make any arrangement
to. prevent a sacrifice, of the interests of your petitioner and
others similarly situated," and "that, unless it shall be permitted to become a party to this suit and file its answer therein,
it will lose its rights ii the premises nder some collusive compromise or colorable sale, or through the indifference or neglect
of the said Elwell." The court denied, the prayer of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

intervening petition of the bank, stating "that the trustees
under said second mortgage are parties to this suit and have
appeared and answered herein, and that there is no proof
showing that said trustees are not acting in good faith."
It thus appears that the court passed upon the qtiestion of
collusion on the part of Elwell, and held that the bank was
.bound by the acts of Elwell representing it as trustee. No
action was taken by the bank to appeal for more than three
months. By an order made August 3, 1885, it was allowed to
appeal in the name of Elwell, trustee, but it fafled to perfect
any appeal under such allowance. Such appeal was re-allowed
on the 28th of June, 1886, and was perfected on the 30th of
June, 1886, being exactly two years after "the entry of the
final decree and the last day on which the appeal could be
taken. Mleantime, by an instrument executed in October,
1884, and filed in the Circuit Court in November, 1884, at
a time when no appeal was pending from the decree, the
release of errors was executed by Elwell, trustee.
-We are of opinion that thi% release bound all the bondholders represented by Elwell. It appears by the release that
only 955. of the convertible bonds were issued, that 5.8 were
issued an exchange for coupons, all of which coupons had been
paid out of the proceeds of the sale of the property, that, of
the remaining 897, the holders of 617 did not desire further
litigation, and that the holders of the remaining 280 had
hitherto declined to contribute to the cost of the litigation or
to protect the trustee against loss or the payment of costs or
counsel fees. No substantial reasons appear for permitting
the bank, as the holder of only $14,000 of the bonds, to defeat
the 'plainly expressed will of the holders of the remainder.
Sage v Central Railroad Co., 99 U. S. 334.
The allegation of neglect or collusion on the part of Elwell,
as trustee, was found by the Circuit Court to be untrue. The
trustee represented the bondholders not only in the proceedings which resulted in the entry of the decree, so that the
bondholders were not necessary parties, but he also bound
them by his release of errors. His relations to them had
not changed between the time of the entry of the decree

ELW LL v. FOSDICK.
Opmuon of 'the Court.

and the time of zhe execution of the release.

Shaw v. Rail-

xoad Co., 100 .U. S. 605, 611, .612, Bank v. Shed6, 121 U. S.
74, 86, Barnes v. Ckwago, .Mitwaukee &c. Railway, 122.
U. S. 1.

The release of errors, although not found in the transcript
of the record,.is properly brought before this court, for the
purpose for which it is presented. In Dakota County v Glidden, 113 U. S. 222, 225, this court, speaking, by Mr. Justice
Mfiller,- said. "But this court is compelled, as all courts are, to
receive evidence deors the record affecting their proceedings
n a case before them on error or appeal. The death of one
of the parties after a writ of error or appeal requires a new
proceeding to supply its place. The transfer of the interest of
one of the parties by assignment or by a judicial proceeding in
another court, as in bankruptcy or-otherwise, is brought to the
attention of the court by evidence outside of the original-record, and acted on. A release of errors'may be filed as P bar
to the writ. A settlement of the controversy, with an agreement to-dismiss the appeal or wiit of error, or any stipulation
as to proceedings in this court, signed by the parties, will be
enforced."
By the provisions of the mortgage to Elwell, he; as trustee,
could proceed to collect the mortgage debt, by litigation or
otherwise, only at the request of the holders of a majority of
the bonds. As appears from the terms of the release, and is
not controverted,the majority of such holders desired the litigation to cease. The'trustee was authorized to put an end to it,
and his waiver of an appeal binds "all who act in his name as
trustee. The bank was not. a pArty to the suit, and its right
to appeal d9pended entirely upon the action -of the trustee.
.Ex arte Cuttfng, 94: U. S. 14, 21 ,,E part Cockaroft, 104:
U. S: .578. All that the Circuit -Court did was to allow the
bank to appeal in the name of the trustee. The bank is bound
by all the preceding a~ts of the -trustee, done in good faith.
On the facts of the case, the appeal must be considered as the
appeal of the trustee, and as barred by his release executed
long before the appeal was granted.VOL. cxxxv-33

