WHEELER v. CLOYD.
Argument for Appellants.

WHEELER v. CLOYD.
APPEAL FROM THE CIROIT COURT OF THE DITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTIERN DISTRIOT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 147. Argued December 6,1889. -Decided

April 7, 1890.

Gibson v. ,"7&fezdt, 122 U. S. 27, affirmed to the point that "in a suit in
equity brought m the Circuit Court by two or more persons on several
and distinct demands, the defendant can appeal to this court as to those
plaintiffs only, to each of whom more than $5000 is decreed."
MOTION TO DISMSS an appeal in equity upon the ground that
"the decree appealed from was not a joint decree, and imposed no joint debt, liability or obligation," but that it was
a series of distinct decrees against distinct parties, on distinct
causes of action. The case is stated in the opinion. The cause
was argued on its merits as well as on the motion to dismiss.

.Mr H. TompAkmzs, for appellants, (Mr James .cCartney
and Mr T J Golden were with him on the brief,) made the
following points in opposing the motion to dismiss. These
are the points referred to by the court.
This is an attempt, by supplemental bill, to reopen a part of
the subject matter of an original suit of foreclosure by and
against new parties alleging over $1,000,000 as the matter in
dispute, and that appellants were not, but should have been
parties to the original suit a matter which was open and
notoriously known when the original suit was brought. By
this proceeding it is sought to foreclose 100,000 acres in parcels of 40 acres, the value of each parcel being less than $500.
The gravamen of the action and decree is to enjoin, annul,
ignore and render void proceedings in the courts of the State
of Illinois, had before this proceeding was commenced.
The whole proceeding is in violation of Rev Stat. § 723,
and the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction. An appeal lies, as
the jurisdiction of the court below is a proper subject for re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Argument for Appellants.

view

Dred Scott v Sandford,.19 How 393, Grsgnon v
Astor, 2 How 319.
Parties cannot join to give jurisdiction. Oliver v. Aleander, 6 Pet. 143, Spear v. Place, 11 How 522. Each comRicA v.
plainant must be able to sue each defendant.
Lambert, 12 How 347, Strawbnsdge v Curtiss, 3 Cranch,
257, Paving Co. v .Xulford, 100 'U.S. 147. And when the
record shows, as this record does show, that the.Circuit Court
was without jurisdiction, this court will remand the case with
directions to dismiss it for want of jurisdiction.
The Revised Statutes provide, § 723, that suits in equity
shall not be entertained in the courts of the United States in
any cause where a plain and adequate remedy at law may be
had. In this cause the plaintiffs had their full and adequate
remedies at law, and the court, as a court of equity, was consequently without jurisdiction.
An appeal lies in the case at bar, as the gravamen of appellee's action is to enjoin the Supreme Court of the State of
Illinois against further proceedings, as alleged-by appellees in
the case of Scates v Zing, until the appellees can foreclose
in this court the 100,000 acres, or so much as each appellee
may desire.
If the action is to foreclose, then it is in. solido for the whole
debt.
By "matter m dispute" is meant the subject of litigation.
The matter for which suit is brought, and on which issue is
joined. The matter in dispute is the debt claimed, not the
damages or prayer for.judgment. 1?wA v -Lambert, 12 How
347, 352, Lee v Watson, 1 Wall. 337, Wilson v. Dantel, 3
Dall. 401, 408.
"Purchasers of the equity of redemption, to redeem must
pay thq whole debt." There can be no severance until the
debt is paid, or foreclosed, under a legal proceeding. Jones
on Mortgages, §§ 1063, 1070, 1075, Powell on Mortgages, 342,
Bradley v. Snyder, 14 Illinois, 263, . C. 58 Am. Dec. 564,
Neachanm v Steele, 93 Illinois,. 135.
Equity of redemption, under the statute, is a privilege to be
exemised within a limited time. The case at bar seeks, by

WHEELER v. CLOYD.
Opinion of the Court.

supplemental proceedings, 'to compel a redemption, against
parties who have not been foreclosed, by subrogation to the
rights of. the original parties, claunming an equity by the deraignment of title, under a void foreclosure.
A supplemental bill to a foreclosure suit, alleging the equity
of deeds by a deraignment through purchase at a master's sale,
praying to be subrogated and have a foreclosure against parties
in possession through 'purchase from the so-called mortgagor
before the foreclosure suit was commenced, opens up the whole
case, and all previous decrees and orders are vacated, that the
original suit may be heard at the same time, and all parties
must be brought in. Gibson v ]Bees, 50 Illinois, 383.
.Mr Zuczen .Birckeye and 2f&-dwzn Beecher for appellees,
and in support of the motion.
MIIR JusTicE TLAMA delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a motion to dismiss an appeal upon the ground
that the interests of each of the appellants in the case are separate and distinct, .and ao not involve an amount sufficient to
give this court jurisdiction.
The case grew out of Xenscott v Supervwsors, 16 Wall. 452,
and Supemnwors v Kennwo, 94 U. S. 498, and those cases are
referred to for a more minute statement of all the early facts
of the controversy than is necessary to be made for the purpose of considering the question now before us. A brief summary of some of -the leading facts of the controversy will be
sufficient for present purposes.
On the 20th of April, 1859, the county of Wayne in the
State of Illinois, by virtue of an authority derived from an act
of the state legislature, executed a mortgage and a deed of
'trust upon about 100,000 acres of its swamp and overflowed
lands, to Isaac Seymour of N'ew York City, as trustee, to
secure the payment of $800,000 of its bonds, which had been
issued for the purpose of raising funds with which to construct.
a railroad. On the same day the Mount Vernon Railroad Company, the corporation that had been organized to build the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

road for the benefit of which the aforesaid aid had been
granted, as a part of the same general transaction of raising
funds with which to build its road, executed a mortgage to
Seymour, upon its contemplated railroad, its appurtenances,
franchises and other property and effects both present and
prospective, as an additional security for the aforesaid bonds.
The bonds were sold and came into the hands of bonao§de purchasers for value, and default having been made in the payment of the interest on them, as it came due, a bill for foreclosure of the mortgages and deed of trust was filed, on the
7th of March, 1865, by John W IKennicott and others, claimants of a number of the bonds which had been sold, against
the county of Wayne and the Mount Vernon Railroad Company The railroad company defaulted, and, upon a hearin
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Illinois, the bill was dismissed as to the county of
Wayne, on the ground that the mortgage was invalid because
the proofs failed to show that at the date it was made there
was any line of railroad constructed or authorized to be constructed through that county, with which the Mount Vernon
railroad was connected in any manner. Upon appeal, this
court reversed that decree, and held that the mortgage in controversy was valid, as to bonafde holders of the bonds it was
intended to secure, and that the complainants were entitled to
a decree in their favor. -Eentcottv Supernsors, supra. A
final decree in the case was rendered by the Circuit Court in
June, 1874, which was affirmed by this court on appeal.
S-zqermsors v Eennscott, supra. In pursuance of that decree
the lands covered by the mortgage were sold at a master's sale
on the 18th of September, 1877, for an amount insufficient to
satisfy the claims of the bondholders, and, the time for redemption having expired, the master, on M-lay 27, 1879, executed and delivered a deed for them to one Broadwell, who
had come into possession of the certificates of purchase at the
aforesaid sale. The appellees in this case, who were compl~anants below, claun under Broadwell.
Between the date of the execution of the deed of trust and
the mortgage before mentioned, and March 7, 1865, whe-0. the

WHEELER v. CLOYD.
Opnion of the Court.

foreclosure suit was commenced, the county of Wayne had
sold a large amount of the lands embraced in those encumbrances'to individuals who were not made parties to the foreclosure proceedings. The appellants here claim under those
purchases from the county
The case, as it now stands, is a consolidation of four others
and an intervening petition filed by leave of the court. The
first of those consolidated cases was a suit in equity brought
on the 25th of January, 1882, by the appellee, J C. Cloyd,
a citizen of New York, against Clarissa Jordan and some
twenty-four or more other defendants, all but two of whom
were citizens of Illinois, one of those two being a citizen of
Ohio, and the other a citizen of Colorado. The bill set out,
somewhat in detail, the various steps in the proceedings above
referred to, and further alleged that, by reason thereof and
also by reason of the conveyances before mentioned, the
county of Wayne had no. right, title or interest in and to the
lands in dispute and was not in any other manner interested
in the present suit.
The prayer of the bill was that a subpcena issue commanding each of the defendants to appear and answer, but not
under oath, all and singular the allegations of the bill, that an
account be taken, under the direction of the court, to ascertain
how much was due on the decree in the case of Kenwott v
&pewsors, sutpra, and also to ascertain the amount for which
each tract of land involved in-the suit was sold at the master's
sale, with interest. It then continued as follows "That said
defendants, within a short tine to be fixed by this court, pay
to complainant the amount so found to be due on said decree,
or, in the alternative, that each of said defendants pay to yotr
orator the amount for which the lands so claimed by each f
said defendants was sold for at said master's sale, with the
interest thereon, and in default of making such payment that
your honor, by a-decree of this court, declare the equity of
redemption of said defendants be forever barred and foreclosed, and if your honor should deem it right and equitable
that the equity of redemption of said defendants in and to
said-premises should be sold, then that your honor order the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

same to be sold in such manner as may seem best to .your
honor," and concluded with a prayer for other and further
relief, etc.
The second and third of the consolidated cases were brought
on the same day as the first one, in the court.below, and were
similar in every respect to that one. The second one was
brought by C. T. Austin, a citizen of New York, against
Michael Book and four other defendants, all citizens of Illinois
and the third one was brought by John B. Cornell, also a citizen of New York against Thomas J Pettijohn and some fiftyfive or more other defendants, all of whom were citizens of
Illinois, except C. M. Wakefield, who was a citizen of Texas.
The fourth one was brought in the court below on the 26th
of January, 1882, by Elizabeth H. Taylor, J Sargent Smith
and Arthur F Gould, citizens of Massachusetts, Henry M.
Alexander, administrator of the last will and testament of
Peter Mclfartin, deceased, Joseph Waxelbaum and Charles A.
Cqe, citizens of New York, and William L. Rolston, a citizen
of Ohio, against J B. Bozarth and sixty-five other defendants,
who were all citizens of Illinois, and was similar to the three
preceding cases in every respect, except that the lands involved
were described, and the name of the owner of each particular
tract was set forth in the bill itself, instead of in an exhibit
thereto, as was the case in the others.
These cases were consolidated by an order of court entered
January 2, 1881, and were ordered to proceed as one case,
under the title of the first one, and at the same time leave
was given to amend the bills in all of the causes in order to
make them harmonious.
By leave of the court, on the 4th day of April, 1884, Fernando B. Hane, a citizen of Ohio,. filed his intervening petition
in the case, as consolidated, against all of the defendants impleaded therein, and also against John J Backman and one
hundred and seventy-four other defendants, all citizens of
Illinois, alleging substantially the same facts as did the preceding cases, with a like prayer and with an additional prayer for
an injunction against a number of the defendants and their
attorney, H. Tompkins, to restrain and enjoin them from

BEEELER v. CLOYD.
Opimon of the Court.

prosecuting certain suits brought by them in the Circuit Court
of Wayne County against certain vendees of petitioner based
upon the claim that the aforesaid mortgage and deed of trust
were invalid, and, therefore, not binding upon them, until the
final hearing of this cause.
To these pleadings various dbfendants interposed demurrers,
(some filed separate answers, and the rest filed a joint answer.
The main ground of defence was, that upon a similar state of
facts to those alleged by complainants in tis case the Supreme Court of Illinois, in Sates v Zing, 110 Illinois, 456, had
affirmed a decree rendered by the Circuit Court of Wayne
County in a case regularly brought before it, which held that
a conveyance of a part of the lands sold at the mortgage sale
aforesaid, made by a claimant under Broadwell, was a cloud
upon the title thereto of a party claiming under a sale made
by the county between the date of the execution of the beforementioned mortgage and deed of trust and-the commencemept
of the foreclosure proceedings, and should be set aside.
Replications having been filed, and also intervening petitions
by W S. Rolston, J. C. Cloyd and Lucinda A. Walker, the
casa was finally put at issue. Proofs were taken by the. respective parties; and, upon a hearing on the pleadings and
proofs, the. court below, on the 25th of January, 1886, rendered a decree finding the material facts substantially as we
have recited them. The decree then set out and exhibited, in
its seventh finding of 'facts, a list ,and -schedule of the landsinvolved in this consolidated suit, "together with the names,
.respectively, of the several and respective persons to whom
the county of Wayne sold its equity of redemption. or residuary interest." That list and schedule further contained a statement of the present owners, respectively, of the title acquiredby the master's sale aforesaid, which afterwards passed to
Broadwell and from, him by mesne conveyances, and also "a
statemaent of the amounts, respectively, which were bid at said
decretal sale for said tracts of land respectively" '
The courb'then found as matter of law
"1. That the opinions and decisions of the Supreme Court
of the. United States. upon the appeals heretofore prosecuted

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

from the decrees of this court and reported in 16th Wallace's
Reports, page 452, and in 94: U. S. Reports, page 498, are bindrang upon this court, and there is nothing in record or evidence
in this case as consolidated to invalidate the said mortgage
and trust deed or the respective amounts found due to the
,several parties to this suit as consolidated. Both the findings
as to the said several amounts so found due should be sustained.
1"2. The purchasers from Wayne County, after the Fecording of the mortgage, took the lands purchased by them
severally subject to the lien of the mortgage, and the proceedings to foreclose the said trust deed and mortgage did not
release or discharge this lien so long as the mortgage debt
remains unsatisfied.
"3. The purchasers from the county, both after the recording of the mortgage and after the service of process on Wayne
County on March 11, 1865, cannot acquire tax titles as
against the mortgagees or those acquiring title under the
foreclosure sale.
"4. That the mnaster's deed under the decretal sale of September 18, 1877, transferred to the several purchasers thereat
an equitable right to so much of the mortgage debt as was bid
upon each tract severally
"5. That the s yendens as to purchasers from the county
attaches from the 11th of March, A.D. 1865, the date of
service of process on Wayne County, and that upon the facts
averred in the several bills and sustained by the proofs the
purchasers of lands at the decretal sale which were sold by
Wayne County between April 20, 1859, and March 11, 1865,
are entitled to file a bill in the nature of a supplemental bill
against the parties holding title from the county subject to
the mortgage to have the lien of the mortgage enforced by a
decree of foreclosure."
The decree then contmnuedas follows
"That each of said owners of the said equity of redemption
or residuary interest of the county of Wayne of, in and to
said several tracts of land which were purchased. from the

WHEELER v. OLOYD.
Opinion of the Court.

county between April 20, 1859, and March 11, 1865, who have
been summoned in this case, or who may have entered their
voluntary appearance therein, or their assigns, respectively,
each actingfor htmseyf or hersef, and not for any other, may
and shall -redeem the, respective tracts of land of which they,
at date of service upon them, respectively, of process Qr entry of
appearance, respectively,-held and owned the equity of redemption or res&duary snterest of the county of Wayne within or -at
the expiration of one year from this date, by paying into this
court the amount for which each of said tracts of land was
bid and sold at said decretal sale, for the use and benefit of
the owners, respectively, under title deraigned from said decretal sale of the tract or tracts so redeemed, and that the judgment creditors, respectively, of any such persons so owning
the equity of redemption may and shall -redeem any tracts
thereof m default of such parties so redeeming, at any time
within three months of and after the expiration of said twelve
months, by paying the amount so decreed to be redeemed
from, in accordance with the statutes of the State of Illinois
concerning redemption from 3udicial sales, and it is further
ordered, adjudged and decreed-that the decree of foreclosure
of June 25, 1874, hereinbefore referred to, shall be vacated
and annulled as to each and every tract (but as to none others)
thus redeemed as aforesaid, and that in default of redemption,
as provided for herein as aforesaid, then and from the date of
the expiration of such period of limitation all rights of such
owners of the said equity of redemption, or their respective
assigns, so failing to redeem shall be forever barred and foreclosed of their equities of redemption, respectively, and of all
rig~hts of, in and to. said lands of any kind or nature adversely
to the owners under title deraigned from said decretal sale, and
that each and all of such defendants so being barred and foreclosed, and their agents, attorneys, solicitors and servants or
assigns shall, from and after the expiration of said fifteen
months, cease to exercise any acts of ownership over said
lands, and shall at once thereafter vacate, abandon and leave
the same, and not intermeddle any further therewith under
pain of being considered in contempt of this court, and that
VOL. cxxxiv-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opnion of the Court.

the respective titles of said several and respective tracts of
land not so redeemed shall be, and they are, confirmed in said
several parties so owning the same by title deraigned from
said decretal sale, as aforesaid, and their assigns, and that any
tax deed or certificate to any tract of land, and not thus
redeemed, which may belong to any such person thus entitled,
blut failing to redeem- such tract, is hereby declared to be
The
vapated, annulled, and for nothing taken hereafter."
italics are the court's.
On the same day that the decree was entered a motion for
rehearing was filed, the first ground of which recited as follows "That the result of the decree in said cause would be a
great hardship to the respondents, as there is not enough in
amount in any case to allow an appeal." This motion was
denied on the 29th of March, 1886, but on the 31st of May
following it was ordered by the court that said motion "stand
continued until the next June term" of the court. On the
10th of June following the motion for rehearing was again
considered, and again denied, an order being entered "that
the order of March 29th, 1886, denying the application for a
rehearing of the cause, stand affirmed."
On the 13th of July, 1886, a motion was made to correct
the decree by striking from it the names of thirty-seven of
the defendants, thirty-four of whom, it was alleged, had
neither entered their appearance nor been served with summons, and the other three had disclaimed, and on the 5th of
August, 1886, a petition for summons and severance on appeal,
and also an appeal bond, were filed by fifty-six of the defendants jointly
It is clear that the appeal must be dismissed. The decree
from which it is taken was not a joint decree, as is readily
observed by a mere inspection of it. The liability of each one
of the defendants under that decree can be neither increased
nor diminished by any action on the part of any of his co-defendants. The right of every one of the defendants to appeal
from the decree is separate and distinct from that of the other
defendants. The amount adjudged against any one of them,
in order that he might redeem his respective tract or tracts of

