WHITTEMORE v. AMOSKEAG BANK.
Counsel for Parties.

stockholders, whereas under the statute of 1879 he could be
proceeded against alone, it is sufficient to say that if neither
the statute of 1866 nor that of 1879 had been passed, he could
have been sued at law upon the notes he gave the company
The proceeding authorized by the statute of 1879 is, in effect,
a suit upon his notes for.the amount dlie thereon. His liability to pay that amount has no such connection with the liability of other stockholders as to exempt him from a suit at law
to compel -ntoto pay the sum he agreed to pay Hatch v.
Dana, 101 U. S. 205. The statute restricts any judgment
against him to the amount he originally assumed, to pay,
Consequently, no substantial right of his has been violited,
"Whatever belongs merely to the remedy rifiay be altereo
according to the will of the State, provided the alteration
does not impair the obligation of the contract." Bronson v,
htnshled, 4 Wheat,
HYinzw, 1 How 311, 316, Sturges v. C'ow
122, 200; Fourth _Nationa Bank v Francklyn,120 U. S. 7'47,
755, and cases there cited.
Judgment aijlrme.

WHITTEMORE v. AMfOSKEAG NATIONAL BANK.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
No. 219. Argued and submitted March 20, 190. -Decided March 31,1890.

In an action against a national bank in a Circuit Court of the United States,
if. all the parties are citizens of the district in which the bank is situated,
and the action does not come under section 5209 or section 5239 of the
Revised Statutes, the Circuit Court has no jurisdiction; and, if it has
taken jurisdiction and dismissed the bill upon another ground, its decree
will be reversed and the cause-remanded with a direction to dismiss the
bill for want of jurisdiction.

TnE case is stated in the opinion.
.r" H. G Wood for appellant.
Xr Thowas 1. Jjvermore, with whom was -Mr Fredere
P Fisk on the brief, for appellees.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opmion of the Court.

MR. CHiEF
court.

JusTicE

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

David C..Whittemore, of Manchester, in the District of New
Hampshire, in his own behalf and in behalf of such stockholders of the Amoskeag National Bank, a corporation duly established under the laws of the United States, and having its
principal place of business at said Manchester, as might join
therein, brought his bill of complaint, May 9, 1885, against
the Amoskeag National Bank, M1oody Currier, George B.
Chandler, David B. Varney, John B. Varick, Henry Chandler,
John S. Kidder, Edson Hill, and Reed P Silver, all of Manchester, in said district, six of them directors, one of them the
cashier, and the other a former director, of said bank, alleging
in substance that complainant was the owner of five shares of
the capital stock of the bank; that in 1875, a firm styled
Dunn, Harris & Co. was adjudicated bankrupt by the United
States District Court for said District of'New Hampshire, and
an assignee appointed, being indebted at the time to the bank
in the sum of one thousand dollars, and one of the members of
the firm, Cyrus Dunn, being indebted to the bank in the sum
of five thousand dollars, that the firm offered a composition
of fifteen per cent to their creditors, and Cyrus Dunn offered
a composition of twenty per cent to his creditors; that the
bank, by a vote of its directors, constituted one of their number its agent in the bankruptcy proceedings, -and he entered
into an agreement with Cyrus Dunn that, in consideration
that the bank should furnish him with money sufficient to
carry out the compromise, he would pay the ageant of the bank
a sum equal to the sum due to the bank; that in pursuance of
this agreement, the bank advanced from its funds a large sum
without security, in doing which the directors and officers violated their duties and obligations, to the bank's stockholders,
and their acts were in violation of the charter of the bank and
the laws of the United States, that the sum advanced was
used in purchasing claims against Cyrus Dunn, that the compromise was confirmed, and the property of Cyrus Dunn conveyed by the assignee to the agent of the bank, and by him

WHITTEMORE v. AMOSKEA.G BA1NK.
Opinion of the Court.

to the bank, that afterwards the composition was set aside
and the assignee brougl t suit against the bank to recover the
property, which was deoled by the District Court in favor of
the assignee, that m 1876, a note was given to the bank,
signed by two of its directors and Cyrus Dunn of the insolvent
firm, for the money advanced by said bank in excess of what
was received from the assignee, and this note was included as
part of the assets of the bank, and that the bank has madeno attempt to collect the note, and has expended large sums
of money m defence of its illegal acts, anj complainant prays
that the respondents, the directors of the bank, may be decreed
to pay to the bank whatever it may have lost by reason of
this illegal conduct, and that a receiver may be appointed to
collect said note, and for such other relief as may be just, etc.
The bill was demurred to by the respondents, and the demur
rer sustained upon the ground that the plaintiff could not
maintain his bill because of his failure to bring himself within
equityrule 94, and thereupon a decree was entered dismissing the bill with costs, and an appeal was prayed. to this
court.
All the parties were citizens of the District of New Hampshire, and the bank was located therein, and in our judgment
the Circuit Court for that distiict had no jurisdiction. A
-motion to dismiss the appeal on this ground has heretofore
been made, but was overruled, as this court undoubtedly has
appellate jurisdiction to determine whether the Circuit Court
had original jurisdiction.
Prior to July 12, 1882, suits might be brought by or against
national banks in the Circuit Courts of the United States in
the district where the banks were located, but by the act of
that date it was provided that- "the jurisdiction for suits hereafter brought by or against any association established under
any law providing for national banking associations, except
suits between them -and the United States, or its officers and
agents, shall be the same as, and not other than, the jurisdiction for. suits. by or against banks not organized under any
law -of the United States, which do or might do banking
business where such pational banking associations may be
-

VOL. CX'-XXW-

.4

