ORMSBY v. WEBB.
Syllabus.

view any question raised upon the record except such question
of jurisdiction."
The words "a final judgment or decree," in this act, are
manifestly used in the -same sense as in the prior statutes which
have received interpretation, and these orders to renand were
not final judgments or decrees whatever the ground upon
which the Circuit Court proceeded. graves v Corbzn, 132
U. S. 571, 591.
Aypeals dismssseafor want ofiuzsdictwn.

ORMSBY v. WEBB.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
lo.179.

Argued January9, 10, 1890.- Decided March 3, 1890.

An order in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, at special
term, admitting a writing to probate and record as the will of a deceased
person, in conformity with the findings of the jury empanelled, in'the
same court, to try the issue of will or no will, is one involving the
merits of the proceeding, and may be reviewed by the -same court in
general term, and such review will bring before the general term. all
the questions arising upon bills of exceptions taken at the trial before
the jury and if the value of the matter 'in dispute be sufcient, this
court has jurisdiction to re~xamme a final order of the Supreme court
of the District of Columbia affirming the order of the Probate Court,
and to pass upon the questions of law raised by such bills of exceptions.
Van Ness v. VTan Ness, 6 How. 62; and Browzn v. Wiley, 4 Wall. 165, distinguished.
In the trial before a jury of an issue made up in a Probate Court as to the
incompetency of a deceased person, from unsoundness of mind or undue
influence, to make a will, declarations made by the deceased to a witness
that he received the bulk of his estate by breaking tte will of his grandfather, who was also the ancestor of the caveators, and that his estate
consisted in a great degree ,of that property and its accumulations; and
also declarations of one of the legatees, made about, or after- the date
of the execution of the alleged will, that she had'knowledge at that .time
of the execution of the will and of its lIrovisions, should be excluded
from the jury.
On the trial of that issue it was proper for the jury to consider whether the
undue influence alleged to have been exercised by a particular legatee in

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of -the Court.
respect to other matters extended to or controlled the execution of the
will, and give it such weight as they might deem proper.
An instruction to the jury, at such trial, that if they should believe the
evidence of a witness named, they must find for the will, while apparently objectionable, as giving undue prominence to the testimony of
that witness, was held, in view of the.scope of her evidence, not to have
been erroneous.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Y.r John J Johnson and .Mr William G Johnson, (with
whom was _fr William Stone Abert on the brief,) for plaintiffs in errqr.
Xr Enoch Tott n, (with whom was Mr William B. Webb
on the brief,).for defendants m error.
MR. JUsTicE EL&wAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This writ of error brings up for review a judgment of the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, in general term,
which affirmed, a final order of the same court, in special
term, admitting to probate and record a certain writing as the
last will and testament of Levin M. Powell, who died in the
city of Washington on the 15th day of January, 1885. That
instrument provided for the disposition of property of the
value of more than one hundred thousand dollars.
At October term, 1886, of this court a motion was made
that the writ of error be dismissed for want of jurisdiction,
"because the judgment of the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia to which. said writ of error was directed is not a
final judgment," and, in the alternative, that the judgment
be affirmed because the writ of error was sued out merely for
delay
That motion wa§ -overruled. Ormsy v Webb, 122
U. S. 630. At the present term a second motion to dismiss was
made, this time, upon the ground that the case is one of equity
jurisdiction, and could be brought here only by appeal.
The history of this litigation, as disclosed by the record, is
as follows:
§arah C. Colmesnil, one of the heirs at law of the deceased,

ORMSBY v. WEBB.
Opinion of the Court.

presented to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
holding a special term for probate business, a petition alleging
that the -above writing -previously presented to that court
for probate by the persons named therein as executors- was
not the last will and testament of Levin X. Powell, that by
reason of his physical and mental condition he was incompetent to make a Willl, and that if his name was placed to that
writing, it was not done by his will, but. by'the procurement,
undue influence and fraud of Harriet C. Stewart, one .,of the
porsons named therein as a legatee.
It was thereupon ordered that the following issues be trans
mitted to be tried in the circuit court before a jury"
"First. Whether the said paper-writing purporting to be the
last will and testament of the said Levin M. Powell, bearing
date on the 27th of October, 1881, was executed and attested
in due form of law
"Second. Whether the cntents.of said paper-writing were
read to or by the said Levin M. Powell at or before the alleged
execution thereof by him.
"Third. Whether the said Levm MIV.
Powell at the tune of
the alleged signing of said paper-writing was of sound and
disposing mind and capable of executing a valid deed or
contract.
"Fourth. Whether the said writing was executed by the said
Levin Ml.Powell under the influence of suggestions, importunities and undue persuasion of the said Harriet C. Stewart, or
any other person or persons, when his mind, from its disordered,
diseased and enfeebled state, was unable to resist the same.
"Fifth. Whether the execution of said paper-writing was
procured by fraud, misrepresentation or undue influence or
persuasion of the said Harriet C. Stewart, or any other person
or persons acting of their ovn volition or under the direction
of the said Stewart."
Subsequently, in the Supreme Court of the District, holding
a,circuit court, an order was made that upon the trial of the
above issues before a jury, Mrs. Colmesnil and others who had
filed caveats, should be plaintiffs, and Charles D. Drake and
William B. Webb, as the-proponents of the last will and testaVOL. "cXxxv-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

ment of the deceased, and who were named as his executors,
should be defendants.
The verdict of the jury consisted of answers to the above
questions. The first, second and third were answered in the
affirmative, the fourth and fifth, in the negative. A motion
for a new trial having been overruled, the caveators prosecuted an appeal to the general term, which affirmed the action

of the special term.
At a subsequent date the caveat( i-s filed in the Supreme
Court of the District, holding a special term for what is called
Orphans' Court business, the record of the trial of the issues
submitted to the jury, and moved 0i at the verdict be set aside
upon the ground that the court trying those issues erred in
rejecting competent testimony, in its instructions to the jury,
in refusing to instruct the jury as requested by the caveators,
and in rulings during the trial to which they took exceptions.
This motion was overruled,.and an order was made admitting
the writing in question to probate and record as the will of
ILevin M. Powell, and directing letters testamentary to issue
to the persons named therein as executors. From this last
order an appeal was taken to the general term, which affirmed
the order of the special term overruling the motion to set
aside the verdict of the jury, as well as the order admittmg the above writing to probate as the last will of the
deceased.
The question raised by the first motion to dismiss for want
of jurisdiction in this court, having been reargued, will be
again examined in connection with the motion to dismiss upon
the ground that the case, in any event, is one of equity cognizance to be brought here only by appeal. We do this because no opinion was delivered when this motion was overruled
at a former term.
The defendants in error contend, in effect, that this court
is without jurisdiction to review an order of the Supreme
,Court of the District, by virtue of which a writing is finally
admitted to probate as the last will and testament of the person signing it, whatever may be the value of the matter in
dispute. This, it is argued, results from the statutes regulating

ORMSBY v. WEBB.
Opinion of the Court.

the jurisdiction of the courts of the District, and the decisions
of this court declaring their scope and effect.
The act of February 27, 1801, concerning the District of
Columbia,.P Stat. 103, created the Circuit Court of the District,
with all the powers in such court and the judges thereof that
were vested by law .in the. Circuit Courts and judges of the
Circuit Courts of the United States, and with jurisdiction of all
crimes and offences committed in the Digtrict, and of all cases
in law and equity between parties, both or either of which
shall be residents thereof. The eighth section of the act provided that "any final judgment, order or decree in said Circuit
Court, wherein the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, shall
exceed the value of one hundred dollars, may be regxamined
and reversed or affirmed an the Supreme Court of the United
States, by writ of error or appeal, which shall be prosecuted
in the. same manner, under the same regulations, and the same
proceedings shall be had therein, as is or shall be provided in
the case of writs of error on judgments, or appeals upon orders
or decrees, rendered in the Circuit Court of the United States."
The same act created an Orphans' Court in each of the counties of Washington and Alexandria, that -should have the
powers and perform the duties prescribed m reference to such
courts in Maryland, appeals therefrom to be to the Circuit
Court of the District, which should therein have all the powers
of the chancellor of that State. § 12.
Among the statutes of Maryland then in force was the act
of 1798, which authorized the Orphans' Court, whenever-required by either party to a contest therein, to direct a plenary
proceeding by bill or petition, to which there should be an
answer on oath or affirmation, and which made it the duty of
the court, when either party-required it, to direct an issue or
issues to be made up and sent to the court of law most convenient for trying the same. The act provided that such
courts of law "shall have power to direct the jury, and grant
a new trial, as if the issue or issues were in a suit therein instituted, and a certificate from such court, or any judge thereof,.
of the verdict or 'inding. of the jury, under the seal thereof,
shall be admitted by the Orphans' Court. to establish or

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

destroy the claim or any part thereof " also, that "the
Orphans' Court shall give judgment or decree upon the bill
and answer, or upon bill, answer, deposition or finding of the
jury" 2 Kilty's - Laws Md. c. 101, sug c. 8, § 20, Dennis'
Probate Laws D. C. 67.
By the act of March 3, 1863, 12 Stat. 762, c. 91, the Circuit,
District and Criminal Courts of the District were abolished,
and the Supreme Court of the District was established with
.general jurisdiction in law and equity, and with the powers
and jurisdiction then possessed and exercised by the Circuit
Court. That act provided that one of the justices might
hold a District Court of the United States for the District
of Columbia in the same manner and with the same powers
and jurisdiction possessed and exercised by other District
Courts of the United States, and a Criminal Court with
the same powers as were exercised by the Criminal Court
of the District, that special terms of such Supreme Court
should be held by one of the justices, at such time as
the court in general term should direct, and by which nonenumerated motions in suits and proceedings at law and in
equity, and suits in equity, not triable by jury, should be heard
and determined, such justice, however, having the power to
order any such motion or suit to be heard, in the first
instance, at the general term, and that "any party aggrieved
by any order, judgment, or decree, made or pronounced at any
such special term, may, if the same involve the merits of the
action or proceeding, appeal therefrom to the general term of
said Supreme Court, and upon such appeal the general term
shall review such order, judgment or decree and affirm, reverse,
or modify the same, as shall be jusb." § 5. It also provided
that "all issues of fact triable by a jury or by the court shall
be tried before a single justice, when the trial is by a jury, at
a Circuit Court, and when the trial is without a jury, at a
Circuit Court or special term." § 7.
The eighth and ninth sections of that act are as follows:
"SFc. 8. If, upon the trial of a cause, an exception be taken,
it may be reduced to writing at the time, or it may be entered
on the minutes of the justice, and afterwards settled in such

ORMSBY v. WEBB

""

53

Opinion of the Court.

manner as may be provided by the rules of the, court, and then
stated in writing in a case or bill of exceptions, with so much
of the evidence as may be material to the questions to be
raised, but such case or bill of exceptions -need not be sealed
or signed. The justice who tries the cause may, m his
discretion, entertain a motion, to be made on his minutes, to
set aside a verdict and grant, a new trial upon. exceptions, or
for insufficient evidence, or for excessivq damages Provmded,
That such moiaon be made at the same term -or circuit at
which the trial -was had. When such motion is made and"
heard upon the minutes, an appeal to the general term may
be taken from the decision, i w'hich case a bill of exceptions
or case shall be settled in the usual manner.
"SEC. 9. A .motion .for a new trial on a case or bill of exceptions, and an application for judgment on a special verdict or a verdict taken subject to the opinion of the court,
shall be heard in the first instance at a general term."
The next act of Congress having any bearing upon the
question before us is that of June 21, 1870; which provides
that the several general and special terms authorized by the
act of March 3, 1863, "which have been or may be held, shall
be, and are declared to be, severally, terms of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, and the judgments, decrees,
sentences, orders, proceedings, and acts of said general terms,
special terms, circuit courts, district courts, and criminalcourts, heretofore or hereafter rendered, made, or had, shall
be deemed judgments, decrees, sentences, orders, proceedings,
and acts of said Supreme Court Provded, That nothing
herein contained shall affect the right of appeal as providedby law " The same act abolished the Orphans' Court and
invested the justice holding the special term of the Supreme
Court for that purpose with the powers and jurisdiction then
held and exercised by the former court, subject, however, to
the provisions of the fifth section of the act of M arch 3, 186 ,
giving an appeal to the general term from any order involving the merits. 16 Stat. 159, 160.
The provisions of the acts of 1863 and 1870, so far as they
regulate the jurisdiction and practice in the courts of this

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

District, are embodied in chapter 23 of the Revised Statutes
of the District, without any material change.
When the Revised Statutes of 1874 were enacted, the jurisdiction of this court as to judgments or decrees of the Supreme
Court of the District was thus defined
"ThQ final judgment
or decree of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
in any case where the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs,
exceeds the value of one thousand dollars, may be reexamined
and reversed or affirmed in the Supreme Court of the United
States, upon writ of error or appeal, in the same manner and
under the same regulations as are provided in -ases of writs
of. error on judgments, or appeals from decrees rendered
in a Circuit Court." Rev. Stat. § 705. But by an act approved February 25, 1879, 20 Stat. 320, c. 99, such power of
review was extended to cases where the matter in dispute
exceeded the value of $2500, exclusive of costs, and by an act
passed March 3, 1885, the amount was increased to $5000,
with the reservation of the right of appeal or writ of error,
without regard to the sum or value in dispute, in cases involving the validity of any patent or copyright, or in which is drawn
in question the validity of a treaty or statute of, or an authority exercised under the United States. 23 Stat. 443, c. 355.
It is contended, on behalf of the appellees, that although
this court has jurisdiction to reexamine and reverse or affirm
the final judgment or decree of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, in any case where the value of the matter
in dispute, exclusive of costs, exceeds $5000, it has not jurisdiction to refxamine the final judgment of that court, m general term, affirming an order of the same court, in special
term, admitting a will to probate and record, although such
final judgment and order, unless reversed, may affect the
ownership or- disposition of property of a greater value than
that amount. And this view, it is argued, is sustained by the
decisions in 'n Ness v Tan Ness, 6 How 62, 67, and Brown
v. Wiley, 4 Wall. 165. We are of opinion that this point was
neither involved nor decided in-those cases.
Before exatmining those cases-our attention will be first given
to that of Carter'sHers v Vuatng, 8 Cranch, 251. That was

ORMSBY v. WEBB.
Opinion of the Court.

n appeal, under the act of 1801, from a judgment of the Circuit Court of this District, affirming a judgment of the Orphans'
Court of Alexandria County (which court had the same jurisdiction, and was created by the same act, as the Orphans' Court
of Washington County), dismissing a petition filed for the revocation and repeal of the probate of a will. Two objections to
the- appeal were urged in this court 1, That -by the act. of
1801 the Circuit Court had only the power of the chancellor
of Maryland, and that by the laws of Ma;rylaifd the decree of
the chancellor was final, 2, That the decree of dismissal was not-.
a final judgment, order or decree of the Circuit Court wherein
the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, exceeded $100 Mr.
Justice Story, speaking for the court, said as to the first objection "We are of opinion that the conclusiveness of its sentence
forms no part of the essence of the powers of the court. Its
powers to act are as ample, independent of their final quality,
as with it. Besides, the act of February 2.1, 1801, § 8, has expressly allowed an appeal from 'all final judgments, orders
and decrees of the Circuit Courts,' where the matter in dispute
exceeds the limited value, and- there is nothing in the context
to narrow the ordinary inport of the language. We cannot
admit that construction to be a sound one, which seeks by remote inferences to withdraw a case from the general provisions'
of a statute, which is clearly within its words and perfectly
consistent with its intent. The case of Young v Bank of
Alexandrza, I Cranch, 381, is, in our judgment, decisive against
this objection." In reference to the second objection, it was
said "It is conceded by both parties that the estate devised
to the respondent, Sally C. Cutting, is worth several thousand
dollars. If, then, the probate of the will had any legal operation and was not merely void, the controversy .as to the validity of that probate was a matter in dispute equal to the value
of the estate devised away from the heirs." The decree of the
Circuit Court in that case, disnssing the petition, was reversed, and the cause remanded to that court with directions
to proceed to a hearing upon the merits. The Circuit Court
was thus required to determine, upon its merits, the validity of
the probate of a will.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

-The case of V'an Ness v. Van _Ness also arose under the act
of 1801. It involved the question whether a particular person
was the widow of an intestate, and upon that question depended
the right of that person to have letters of administration
granted to her. This issue, having been raised in the OrphansCourt, by. petition, was, pursuant to the Maryland statute of
1798, sent to the Circuit Court, as originally established, for
trial by jury Under the instructions of that court a verdict
was returned against the petitioner; and by its order the finding of the jury was certified, under seal, to the Orphans' Court,
where the petition was dismissed. From that order a writ of
error was brought, raising the question whether .this court
could take cognizance of the case, and inquire whether the
Circuit Court erred in its instruction to the jury Chief Justice
Taney, speaking for the court, said (p. 67) "It is -true the
Orphans' Court has no power to grant a new trial, and is
bound to consider the fact to be as found by the jury , and
consequently the judgment of that court must be against the
plaintiff. But the matter in contest in the Orphans' Court is
the right to the letters of admmnistration. And it is the province of that court to apply the law upon that subject to the
fact, as established by the verdict of the jury, and to make
their decree accordingly, refusing to revoke the letters granted
to the defendant, and dismissing the petition of the plaintiff.
The suit between the parties must remain still pending until
that decree is pronounced. The certificate from the Circuit
Court is nbthing more than evidence of the finding of the jury
upon the trial of the issue. It merely certifies a fact, That is
to say, that the jury had so found. And the order of the Circuit Court, directing a fact to be certified to another court to
enable it to proceed to judgment, can hardly be regarded as a
judgment, order or decree, in the legal sense of these terms as
used in the act of Congress. Certainly it is not a final judgment or order. For it does not put an end to the suit in the
Orphans' Court, as that court alone can, dismiss the petition of
the plaintiff which is there pending; -and no other court has
the power to pass.a judgment upon it. A verdict in any court
of common law, if. not set aside, is in all cases conclusive as to

ORMSBY v. WEBB.
Opinion of the Court.

the fact found by the jury, and the judgment of the court
must follow it, as the Orphans' Court must follow the verdieK in this case. Yet a writ of error will not lie upon the
verdict."
The case of Brown v Wiley is to the same effect. That
case arose upon a petition filed in the Orphans' Court. before
the act of 1863 was passed, raising the question whether the
petitioner was a child of the intestate, and as such entitled to
a certain fund in the hands of an administratrix. After that
act was in force the issues were submitted to a jury empanelled in the Supreme Court of the District, at special term,
and was determined in favor of the petitioner. A motion
for a new trial, on exceptions duly taken, was heard at general term and overruled. The cause was then remanded with
direction to proceed according to law Thereupon an order
was made that the finding of the jury be certified .by the
clerk to the Orphans' Court, which was still in existence.
From that order a writ of error was brought, and this court,
holding that it was 'not a final order, dismissed the writ.
That this was the utmost extent of the decision is manifest
from the following extracts from the opinion delivered by
Chief Justice Chase, p. 70
"The case, in almost every particular, is identical with that
of 'Fan .Ness v 'Fan Ness. In that case, as in this, an issue
of fact was sent out of the Orphans' Court-to the Circuit Court
to be tried by a jury, was tried and found in the negative.
Exceptions were taken to the rulings upon the trial, and an
order was -made certifying the finding to the Orphans' Court.
The proceeding was brought into this court by writ of errQr,
Th e
which was dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
cai4
in
the
Court,
order certifying the finding to the Orphans'
of Van Ness, was identical in effect with the two order6
overruling the motion for new trial, and certifying the finding
in the case before us. In each case the exceptions taken at
the trial before the jury were overruled, ana nothing was left
for action in the court before which the issues were tried, but
the case went to the Orphans' Court for final judgment. In
that case it was held that the order was not one which could,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

under the act, be reexamined on writ of error, and we see no
reason for a different ruling in this."
Neither of the above cases involved the precise question
now under examination. The decision in Carter's l-Aews v
Cuttzng was, that the final order of ,the Orphans' Court,
dismissing a petition which sought the revocation of the probate of a will, could be reviewed upon its merits in the Circuit
Court, and that the final order of the latter court could be
reexamined in this court. The decision in both Van N7Aess v
Van .ess and Brown v Wiley was, that an order by the

Circuit Court in the first case, and by the Supreme Court of
the District in the other case, which directed the finding of
the jury to be certified, simply directed a fact to be certified,
and, therefore, was not a final judgment, reviewable by this
court. In none of the above cases did the question arise,
whether a final order -made after the trial before the jury
of the issue of will or no will -admitting to probate a paper
presented as the last will of the decedent, was reviewable
upon its merits, by the Circuit Court while the act of 1801
was in force, or by the Supreme Court of the District after
the passage of the act of 1863. Nor did either of those cases
involve any question as to the jurisdiction of this court to
reexamine a final judgment affirming an order of probate.
The latter question is now, for the first time, presented for
determination.
That an order in the Supreme Court of the District, at spe.clal term, admitting a will to probate and record is a final
judgment, cannot, it seems to us, be disputed. It was so
declared in Fan .Ness v. Van .N"ess and Brown v Wiley.

A

will, admitted to probate and record by a court of competent
jurisdiction, is a mumment of title for all receiving property
under it-; and, until the order so admitting it to probate is,
by some appropriate proceeding, set aside or reversed, stands
in the way of those who may have resisted the probate. In
every sense, it is a final adjudication. And that an order of
probate made in the Supreme Court of the District, special
term, is reviewable by the general term is made clear by the
provision that a party aggrieved by any order, judgment, or

ORMSBY v. WEBB.
Oplmon of the Court.

decree in a special term, involving the merits of the action or
proceeding, may appeal to the general term, which "shall
review such order, judgment, or decree, and affirm, reverse, or
modify the same as shall be just." Rev Stat. D. C. § '772,
12 Stat. 763, c. 91, § 5. Clearly an order of probate, based
upon a finding by the jury upon issues as to the competency of
the testator to make a will, is one involving the merits. If so,
how is it possible, in view of the express words of the statute,
to question the jurisdict' )nof the general term to review such
final order of probate?
In respect to the authority of this court to reexamine the
final judgments and decrees of the Supreme Court of this
.District, the words of the statute are quite as clear as those
defining the jurisdiction of the general term to review the
orders and judgments of the special term. It embraces the
final judgment or decree of that court "in any case" involving a specified amount. It is true that this regxamination
must be upon writ of error or appeal "in the same manner
and under the same regulations as are provided in cases of
writs of error on judgments, or appeals from decrees rendered
in a Circuit Court." But this language does not determine
the nature of the "case" in the Supreme Court of the District, the final judgment in which is subject to re6xammation
by this court. It only indicates the mode in which a case
may be brought here for review So that -the only question
is whether issues framed by the Supreme Court of the District, a-ad which involve an inquiry as to whether the decedent
was or was not incompetent, from unsoundness of mind- or
because of undue influence exerted upon him, to make a i\ill
- issues to which there are.adversary parties- constitutes\a
"case," within the meamng of the act of Congress defimng
the jurisdiction of this court over the final judgments and
decrees of the court below If it does not, then it would
follow that a proceeding in the Supreme Court of the District
to revoke the probate of a will is a "case," the final judgment
in which, as held in CarMt2's.Hews v Cutting, may be
reexamined by. this court, when the value of the matter in dispute is sufficient, while a proceeding in the same court involv-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

ing the validity, as a last will and testament, of an instrument
offered for probate, and, therefore, its admission to probate, is
not a "case," the final judgment in which can be here reviewed. We cannot assent to this view The latter proceeding is as much a "case" as the former. One involves the validity of the probate of a will, the other the validity as a will
of a paper offered for probate. Upon the determination of
each depend rights of property, and in each are adversary
parties. There can be no reason why Congress should extend
the jurisdiction of this court to proceedings involving the validity of the probate of wills, and not to proceedings involving the validity of an instrument offered for probate as a will.
That the issues in the former may be heard and determined,
in the first instance, without a jury, and upon evidence before
a court, while the issues in the latter may, and if the parties
require, must, be tried, in the first instance, by a jury, with
the right in the parties to have bills of exceptions showing the
rulings of the court, cannot affect the nature of the "case. "
There are other decisions that throw some light upon the
inquiry as to the jurisdiction of this court to reexamine the
final judgments or decrees of the highest court of this District. In the case of Custhss v Georgetown and Al andrza
Turnpike Company,. 6 Cranch, 233, one of the questions was
as to the jurisdiction of this court to review the final order of
the Circuit Court for the District of Columbia quashing an
inquisition taken by the marshal condemning land for a turn'pike road. Its jurisdiction was maintained. By the words of
the act constituting the Circuit Court of the District, this
court was given jurisdiction to re6xamine "any final judgment, order or decree in said Circuit Court, wherein the matter
in dispute, exclusive of costs, shall exceed the value," etc.
These words, Chief Justice Marshall said, were "more ample
than those employed in the judicial act." It will be found
upon comparing the statute defining the jurisdiction of this
court over the judgments and decrees of the Supreme Court
of this District, with the statute of 1801 creating the Circuit
Court of the District, that the words of the former are -as
broad and ample as the words of the latter. The jurisdiction

ORMSBY

v. NVEBB.

Opinion of the Court.

of this court extends to "the hinal judgment or decree of the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, in any case," etc.,
while the words in the act of 1801 were "any final,judgment,
order or decree in said Circuit Court, wherein the 'latter in
dispute," etc. In Railroad 09. v
hurch, 19 Wall. 62, the
jurisdiction of this court, to reiexamine the final order of the
Supreme Court of this District confirnnng an inquisition of
damages returned therein, and which was instituted before the
marshal and a jury of the district, was sustained. The court
said that its power to review the judgments and final orders
of the Supreme Court of the District was as ample as its power
over the final judgments, orders and decrees of the Circuit
Court which it superseded. These two adjudications illustrate,
to some extent, the nature of the cases from the courts of this
District which may be reexamined here, and showthat the
question now before us .is to be determined by the acts of
Congress defining the relations between this court and the
highest court of this District, and not by reference to the
statutes of Maryland, or to the statutes defining our jurisdiction to review the judgments of the Circuit Courts of the
United States, held in the several States. And we may
repeat here what Chief Justice Marshall said in Young v
Bank of Alexandma, 4 Cranch, 384, m which the main question was as to the power of this court to review the judgments
of the Circuit Court of this District in a certain class of cases
"The words of the act of Congress being as explicit as
language can furnish, must comprehend every case not coinpletely excepted from them."
Whatever difficulties may have, arisen, in cases like this,
while there existed in this District a separate, distinct tribunal,
having original cognizance of the probate of wills and the
administration of the estates of deceased persons, cannot arie
under existing legislation, which brings all such business within
the cognizance of the Supreme Court of the District, and
makes all orders, whether in its special or general term, the
orders of that court. As was said in Metropolitan Railroad
Co. v. MAtoore, 121 'U. S. 558, 071, 573, the act of 1863 was the
introduction into this District of a new organization of its

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

judicial system, under which all the courts previously existing
here as separate and independent tribunals, haling special
and diverse jurisdictions, were consolidated into the new
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia. For this reason,
it was said that the new statutory provisions should be construed in the sense of the New York system, from which they
wereimported, rather than in the light of the jurisprudence
of Maryland previously prevailing in this District. Referring
to the clause in the Constitution declaring that no fact tried
by a jury shall be otherwise regxamined in any court of the
United States than according to the rules of the common law,
the court, speaking by Mr. Justice Matthews, said. "But that
rule is not applicable as between the special and general terms
of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia as now
organized. The appeal from the special to the general term
is not an appeal from one court to another, but is simply a
step in the progress of the cause during its pendency in the
same court. The Supreme Court sitting at special term, and
the Supreme Court sitting in the general term, though the
judges may differ, is the same tribunal."
We are of opinion that an appeal to the general term from
the final order of probate made in the special term, which is
not based upon a judicial determination of facts, but merely
upon the finding of a jury, of necessity, brings into review
before the general- term all the questions of law that are
.properly presented by the bill of exceptions taken at the trial.
We say, of necessity, because 1. The statute requires the
Supreme Court of the District, at general term, to review,
upon appeal, any order, judgment or decree of the special
term, involving the merits of the action or proceeding. 2. The
judgment of the special term admittinga will to probate and
record, pursuant to the verdict of the jury upon issues relating
to the competency of the deceased to make a will, clearly
involves the merits of the controversy, because it establishes
the validity as a will of the writing offered for probate.
3. The right of appeal to the general term from such a judgment of the special term would be of no value whatever, in
most cases, unless the former could, upon such appeal, deter-

ORMSBY v. WEBB.
Opinion of the Court.

mine the questions of law properly presented in the bill .of
exceptions taken at the trial before the jury It could not
have been intended that an appeal to the general term from
the order of probate should only involve an inquiry as to
whether that order was in conformity with the verdict of the
jury
So an appeal to this court from the final judgment of the
Supreme Court of the District, affirming the order of probate,
of necessity, brings here for reexamination all the questions
properly arising upon those bills of exceptions. The presentation of the instrument in question for probate as the last will
of the deceased, the division of the adversary parties into
plaintiffs and defendants, the framing of the issues to be tried
by the jury, the trial before the jury, the allowance of-bills of
exception, the motion for a-new trial and the overruling of
that motion, the admission of the will to probate, and the
affirmance of 'the order of probate, all occurred, not, as -under
the old system, in different courts but in the same court -the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia. -Ifthis proceeding, in which there are adversary parties, and the issues in
which involve rights of property exceeding in value, the
jurisdictional amount, be, within the meaning of the statute,
as we hold it is," a case" which has been finally determined by
the Supreme Court of the District, our authority to determine
the questions of law, properly raised, and which in the court
below , in any of its divisions, controlled the right to have the
will probated, cannot be affected by the circumstance that the
original order of probate simply followed the finding of the
jury, and was made by the court below, held by a single jpsrice, not by the court in general term.
Nor isthe question before us affected by the consideratio
that an order of the general term, merely affirming an order
of the special term which overruled a motion for a new trial,
where the finding of the jury is favorable to the caveatees, is
not itself a final judgment. Such an order is,in legal effect,
a directibn that a judgment of probate be entered by the
same court which denied the new trial. It is only when that
judgment is entered in special term, and is followed by judg-

OCTOBER TERM,

1889.

Opinion of the Court.

ment of affirmance in general term, to review which a writ of
error is sued out, that the jurisdiction of this court attaches.
And in exercising that jurisdiction, this court will not, as it
was asked to do in Fan .Yess v Fan .fess, and in Brown v.
Wiley, review simply the order directing the finding of the
jury to be certified, but it will inquire whether the facts
embraced in that finding were ascertained in conformity with
law If that inquiry is not to be fruitless we must regard the
court,, in which the facts have been found and certified, as a
unit for the purposes of the writ of error. And when that
court makes an order, in general term, which, under the statute, may be reexamined here, the appeal therefrom brings up
for review the questions upon which the final judgment really
depends, namely, those presented by the bills of exception
taken at the trial of the issues submitted to the jury It
would be strange, indeed, if our regxamination of the final
judgment of the Supreme Court of the District could not
reach the errors of law which it may have committed in the
conduct of that trial, and upon which that judgment is based.
For the reasons which have been stated-we are of opinion that the motion to dismiss the writ of error for the want
of jurisdiction in this court to review the judgment in question
was properly overruled at a former term.
And we are of opimon that. the last motion to dismiss,
which proceeds upon the ground that this case is one of
equitable cognizance to be reviewed here, if at all, only upon
appeal, must also be overruled. It is, of course, undisputed
that a final decree in equity, in the court below, cannot be
reviewed here by means of a writ of error. But a proceeding
involvihg the original probate of a last will and testament is
not strictly a proceeding in equity, although rights arising out
of, or dbpendent upon, such probate have often been deter
mined by suits in equity In determining the question of the
competency of the deceased to make a will, the parties have
an absolute right to a trial by jury, and to bills of exceptions
covering all the rulings of the court during the progress of
such trial. These are not the ordinary features of a suit in
equity A proceeding in this District for the probate of a

OIRMSBY v. NWEBB.
Opimori of the Court.

will, although of a peculiar character, is nevertheless a case in
which there may be adversary parties, and in which there
may be a final judgment affecting rights of property It
comes within the very terms of the act of Congress defining
the cases in the Supreme Court.of this District, the final judgments in which may be reexamined here. If it be not a case
in equity, it is to be brought to this court upon writ of error,
although the proceeding may not be technically -one at law,
as distinguished from equity The last motion to dismiss
must, consequently, be denied.
We come now to consider the merits of the case as disclosed
by the bills of exceptions taken by the caveators at the trial.
The principal questions before the jury related'to the alleged
undue influence exerted upon the testator in the execution of
the will, and to his capacity to make a disposition of his prop
erty according to a fixed purpose. Upon these points the
instructions given, at the instance of the caveators, were certamly as full as they could have desired.
The first exception taken by them relates to the exclusion
of evidence tending to prove that the decedent said to the
witness that he received the bulk of his estate by breaking the
-will of his grandfather, who was also the ancestor of the
caveators, and that his estate, consisted in a.great degree of
that property with its accumulations. Argument is not needed
to show that the manner in which the decedent acquired his
estate was wholly immaterial upon the issue as to whether the
paper in question was or. not valid as his last will and testament.
The second and third exceptions refer to the exclusion of
testimony tending to show, by the declarations of Mrs. Stewart, one of the principal legatees, made about or after the date
of the execution of the will, that she had knowledge at that
time of theexecution of the will and of its provisions. The
exclusion. of this evidence was right. The proper foundation
being laid, the declarations of Mrs. Stewart could have -been
proved for the purpose of impeaching or discrediting her testimony as a witness for the caveatees. Bat such declarations,
not under oath, whenever made, were not competent for any
VOL. cx x v-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court-

other purpose upon the trial of the issue as to competency to
make a will. She was not the only legatee who was interested in the issues to be tried.
The fourth exception is based upon the refusal of the court
to give this instruction. "1In order to establish undue influence
it is not necessary to prove the influence to have been exercised
at the time of the execution of the will or with reference to
that act, but if the jury believe from the evidence that the
undue influence existed prior to and near the time of the
execution of the will, they may infer that the wyill was executed under the continuance of such influence.',It was not
error to the prejudice of the caveators to refuse this instruction, for the reason, if there was no other, that the court bad
already, at their instance, fully instructed the jury upon the
subject of undue influence. Upon the motion of the caveators
the jury were instructed that if the alleged will or any part of
it was obtained by undue influence they should find it in their
verdict that it was so obtained, that it was not necessary, in
order to prove that he was unduly influenced in the execution
of the will, that the mmd of the deceased be shown to be so
weak as to render him incapable of attending to ordinary
business, that it was material to inquire not only whether the
will expressed his intention at the time of its execution but
how that intention was produced, that influence obtained by
flattery, importunity, threats, superiority of will, mind or
character, or by what art soever that human thought, ingenuity, or cunning might employ, which would give dominion
over the will of the deceased to such an extent as to destroy
free agency or constrain, him against his will to do what he
was unable to refuse, was such influence as the law condemned
as undue, when exercised by any one immediately over the
testamentary act, whether by direction or indirection, or obtained at one time or another, and that if they believed, from
all the facts and circumstances in evidence, that the alleged
will was the result of an unsound mind or of the undue influence or importunities of the person or persons surrounding
the alleged testator at the time of the execution thereof, or
both, they should so say m their verdict.

ORMSBY v. W-EBB.
Opimon of the Court.

Under these instructions the jury were at liberty to determine from all the evidence- that bearing directly on the
execution of the will as well as that showing that the testator
was, in respect to his affairs, generally under the control of
others - whether in the execution of the will he was a free
agent. This view disposes of the sixth exception, relating to
the refusal of the court to instruct the jury that evidence that
the legatee, Harriet 0. Stewart, improperly influenced the
testator as to other inportant matters and things than the
execution of this will was proper to be considered as tending
to show that she could and did improperly influence him to
make the bequests in-her favor or to exclude others of his next
of kin and heirs at law from a participation in his estate. The.
evidence upon this subject was before the jury, and under the
instructions given in determining the question whether the
undue influence- exercised by Mrs. Stewart in respect to- other
matters extended to or controlled the execution of the will,
they could give it such weight as they deemed proper.
The struction set out in the fifth exception was so manifestly wrong that it is unnecessary to give it special consideration.
The instructions contained in the seventh and eighth exceptions were properly refused upon the ground that the jury
had already been instructed that it -was both their right and
duty to consider all the proof before them, and make such
answer-to the questions as the whole evidence justified.
The only remaining assignment of error to be noticed is that
referring to the following instruction given by the court.: "If
the jury shall believe the evidence of Mrs. Harriet 0. Stewart
upon the-subject of undue influence, given by her in this case,
then -the verdict must be in favor of the defendants and in
support of the will." It is clear from the record that if Mrs.
Stewart did not exercise undue influence over the testator
there was no ground to suppose that any one else did, or to
doubt the validity of the paper in question as a last will and testament. Her. evidence covered the whole case so completely
that, if the jury believed what she said, they were bound to
sustam that paper. as a valid will. With 'her evidencetaing

