OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

MARINE INSURANCE COMPAN-TY OF ST. PAU., MftnESOTA, which
differed only m the petitioner and libellee being a corporation of
Minnesota.

HATHAWAY v. FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CAMBRIDGE.
ERROR

TO

THE

CIRCUIT

COUIT

QF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 223.

Argued March 20, 21, 1890.-Decided Marcb 31, 1890.

Where a case Is tried by the Circuit Court without a jury and it makes a
special finding of facts, -with conclusions of law alleged errors of fact
are not, on a writ of error, subject to revision by this court, if there
was any evidence on whlch such findings could be made.
Where the Circuit Court finds ultimate facts, which justify the judgment
rendered, its refusal to find certain, specified facts, and certain propositions of law based on those facts, will not be reviewed by this court,
on a writ of error, if they were either immaterial facts or incidental
facts, amounting only to evidence bearing on the ultimate facts found.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

-Mr Duane E. Fox for plaintiff in error.
filed a brief for. plaintiff in error.

Mr Z. D _N2V-,

-Mr George F -Hoar(with whom was Air William Gaston
on the brief) for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BLATOHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

THIS is an action at law, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Massachusetts, by a writ,
dated September 22, 1881, by James S. P Hathaway against
The First National Bank of Cambridge, a national banking
corporation.
The declaration contains three counts in tort, the substance
of which is that the defendant had converted to its own use
certain bonds of the United States, with the interest coupons
thereon. the property .of the plaintiff; and that it had con-

IHATHAWAY v. CA.MBRIDGE*lATIONAI BANK. 495
Opinion of the Court.

verted, to its own use the proceeds of the. unlawful and
unauthorized sale. by it of such bonds, with the coupons
thereon, the property of the plaintiff, and that it had unlawfully sold such bonds, with the interest coupons thereon, the
property of the plaintiff, and converted the proceeds to its
own use. The bonds were seven bonds of $1000 each, commonly called 5-20 bonds, with interest coupons attached, five
of the same bonds, of $500. each, -with coupons, and five of
the same bonds, of $100 each, with coupons.
The declaration also contains two counts in contract, one
for money received by the-defendant for the sale of the bonds,
and for interest on the money so received, from the time.of.
the sale. The second count in contract alleges that Gilbert
Hathaway, the father of the plaintiff, in 1865, placed with
the defendant and in the hands of its cashier-certain bonds,
his property, which were to stand as collateral security for the
payment of certain notes which might become due to the
defendant from one Appleton Hubbard, that those bonds
were afterwards converted by the defendant into such 5-20
bonds, 4nd thenceforth, by agreement of the parties, the 5-20
bonds were to be held by the defendant as collateral security
for the payment of any notes which might thereafter'become
due to the defendant from Hubbard, that certain notes were
afterwards made by Hubbard to the defendant, for which the
bonds were to stand as collateral security, but only on the
express agreement by the defendant that it had no right to
sell or dispose .of any of the bonds, except upon and after the
maturity and non-payment by Hubbard of such notes, and
then only to such an amount as would be sufficient to pay
any overdue and unpaid note, that the defendant knew that
the bonds were the property of Gilbert Hathaway, and not
the property-of Hubbard, that Hathaway died in 1871, and
the plaintiff, as residuary legatee under his will, which had
been duly proved, became the owner of the bonds and coupons; that the defendant agreed with Gilbert Hathaway,
and after his death agreed with the plaintiff, to keep the
bonds safely and return them to the plaintiff on his demand
therefor, subject only to the right to sell sufficient of them to

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Omion of the Courf

pay any overdue and unpaid note of Hubbard, for which the
bonds were so held as collateral security, that the defendant
sold all of the bonds at a time when no note of Hubbard was
due and unpaid to it, and when it had no right to sell the
same, and that the defendant owes the plaintiff $20,000, for
the proceeds of the sale of such bonds, and for the interest
coupons attached thereto, and for interest on such proceeds
from May 1, 1879, when the same was demanded by the
plaintiff from the defendant, and which the defendant then
refused to pay to the plaintiff.
The answer of the defendant denies all tfe- allegations of
the writ and the declaration, and sets up that whatever bonds
were sold by it were rightfully sold, that it had the -legal
right to retain whatever money it had retained from the pro•ceeds of the sale of any of the bonds; and that whatever, of
the acts complained of were done by the defendant were done
by the consent of the plaintiff, so far as his consent was necessary and proper to the validity of such acts, and were ratifled by the plaintiff, so far as he had any interest therein.
There was a trial in 1883 by a jury, which failed to agree
on a verdict. In September, 1885, by a written stipulation, a
trial by a jury was waived, and the case was tried by the court
without a jury On the 16th of January, 1886, the court
found as facts
(1) That, prior to April 24, 1879, the plaintiff's testator delivered to Appleton Hubbard, of Cambridge, certain bonds of
the United States, amounting, at their face value, to $10,000,
with power and authority to dispose of them and to deal with
them in the manner in which the r:ame were disposed of and
dealt with by said Hubbard, as her6inafter stated,
(2) That, after such delivery, Hubbard pledged hem to
the defendant as collateral security for the payment of twentyfive promissory notes made by said Hubbard and payable to
and owned by the defendant, which notes were in the whole
for the sum of $10,000, and were to mature on different days
from the 24th of April, 1879, to. the 5th of August, 1879,
(3) That, on the 24th of April, 1879, Hubbard agreed with
the defendant that said bonds should be sold and the proceeds
invested in other bonds of the United States,

HATHAWAY v. CAMBIDGE NATIONAL BANK.

497

Opnon of the -Court.

(4) That, on the 25th of April, 1879, the defendant sold said
oonds and received for them the -um of $10,156.25,
(5) That, on the 29th or 30th of April, 1889, Hubbard
agreed with the defendant that the proceeds of the sale of said
bonds should not be invested in other bonds of the 'United
States, but that such proceeds should be applied by'the defendant to the payment of the notes of Hubbard then held by the
defendant, part of which werq due and.part of which were to
become due, and that proper allowances of interest by way of
charge or rebate should be made in respect of said notes,
(6) That thereupon the defendant applied said proceeds according to said agreemenf, and that the surplus of said proceeds over and above the amount of all said notes, with allowance of interest as aforesaid, .was $175.85,
(7) That, on the 16th of May, 1879, the defendant paid said
sum of $175.85 to Hubbard, and on the 19th of May, 1879,
Hubbard paid the same amount to the plaintiff,
(8) That the plaintiff afterwards had knowledge of all the
facts herembefore stated, and, having knowledge of the same,
ratified and confirmed the said contracts, dealings and transactions between Hubbard and the defendant.
On these findings of fact the court held as matter of
law 1, That the evidence offered by the defendant to prove
proceedings in insolvency against Appleton Hubbard is irrelevant and inadnussible, 2, That the above findings of fact
may lawfully be made from the evidence admitted and considered, 3, That, on the above findings of fact, there should
be judgment for the -defendant, for costs.
On the same day, a judgment was entered that the plaintiff
take nothing by his writ, and, that the. defendant recover the
costs of suit from the plaintiff.,
There is a bill of exceptions,,which states that each party introduced evidence to maintain on his part the issue joined,
that the evidence on'both sides- is annexed to the bill of exceptions and made part thereof; that, after the close of the
evidence, the plaintiff insisted that he was entitled to judgment, and filed with the court certain prayers for findings of
fact and of law, which are annexed to and made part of the
VOL. cxxIv- 32

OCTOBER TERM4, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

bill of exceptions; that the court refused to make any of such
findings, except'in so fat as they were consistent with the
findings of fact and of law which the court afterwards made,
being the findings above set forth, to which refusal the plaintiff excepted, .and that the plaintiff also filed exceptions to
the findings of fact and of law so made, and to the refusal of
the court to make the findings of fact and of law so requested
by the plaintiff.
The plaintiff brought a writ of error to review the judgment, and, he having died, the -writis prosecuted in-the name
of his executrix.
The assignments of error filed in the Circuit Court and sent
up with the record allege that the court erred, first, in making the finding of fact numbered (1), second, in making the
finding of fact numbered (5), third, in making the findings of
fact numbered respectively (7) and (8), fourth and fifth, in
making its findings of law numbered 2 and 3, and sixth, in
making its mixed finding of law and fact, that there was ratification and confirmation of the dealings of Hubbard and the
defendant concerning the $10,000, face value, of the United
States government'bonds, in controversy
The first three assignments of error allege errors merely in
the findings of fact by the court. Those errors are not subject to revision by this court, if there was any evidence upon
which such findings could be made. The _Fanctes TFnght, 105
U. S. 381, 387, -McClurev Unted State-s, 116 U. S. 145, 152,
Umwn Pacifie Railway v United States, 116 U S. 154, 157,
Merchants' Ins. Co. v Allen, 120 U. S. 67, 71. Those three
assignments of error amount, in substance, to the same thing
as the alleged error in finding as a matter of law that the findings of fact stated could lawfully be made from the evidence
admitted and considered.
The assignment of error numbered 6 raises the same question which is raised .by that numbered 4, namely, whether
there was any evidence in the case which authorized the court
to make the finding of fact numbered (8), covered by the
assignment of error numbered 3, as to ratification and confirmation.

HATHAWAY q. CAMBRIDGE NATIONAL BANK.

499

Opinion of the Court.

As to the findings of fact numbered (1) and (2) we are of
opinion that, on the evidence of Hubbard, and that of the defendant's cashier, Bullard, and that of the plaintiff, and the
other evidence in the case, the court was justified in making
those findings. It was, like a jury, the sole judge of the credibility of the witnesses, and the questions were questions of
fact. on the evidence. It would serve no good purpose to
examine the evidence critically, nor is it our province to do so.
It is sufficient to say that the. case was 'not one where there
was no evidence to justify the findings of the court.
The same remarks may be made as to the other findings of
fact made by the court, and especially as to its finding that
the plaintiff, with knowledge of all the facts found by the
court, ratified and confirmed the contracts, dealings and transactions between Hubbard and the defendant, set forth by the
court.
As to the refusal of the court to find certain facts specified
by the plaintiff, and certain propositions of law based on tlrose
facts, they were either immaterial facts or incidental facts
amounting only to evidence bearing on the ultimate facts
found. The Franczs WTr?.ght, 105 U. S. 381, 389; .Mo6lure v.
Unrted States, 116 U S. 145, 152, Uson Paozfic Railway v.
UnsteZ States, 116 U. S. 154, 157, ferchants' -[no- Co. v.
Allen, 120 U. S. 67, 71.
The action being founded on the alleged wrongful acts of
the cefendant in selling the bonds and using the proceeds to
pay the notes of Hubbard, it follows that, if Hubbard consented to such acts, and if, by the arrangement between Hubbard and Gilbert Hathaway, the former had authority to consent to such acts, and if the plaintiff, having full knowledge of
the transactions, ratified and confirmed what was done, he
could not maintain this action.

Judgment a~ffirmec?.

