EILENBECKER'v. PLYMOUTH COUNTY.
Syllabus.

the State of 'North Carolina. The legislation of which com-:
plaint is here made unpaired the obligation of the ,State's
contract, and was therefore unconstitutional and void. It
did not, in law, affect the existence or operation of the previous statutes out of which the contract in'question arose. So
that the court was at liberty to compel the officer of the
State to perform the duties which the statutes, constituting
the contract, imposed upon him. A suit against him for such
a purpose is not, in my judgment, one against the State. It
is a suit to compel the performance of imsterial duties, from
the performance of which the state's officer was not, and
could not be, relieved by uncoinstitutional and void legislative
enactments.

EILENBECKER i. DISTRICT COURT OF PLYMOUTH
COUiNTY
ERROR TO THE SUPREAE COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
1Wo.Ji01.

Submitted January 8, 1890.-

Decided March 3, 1890.

The first eight of the Articles of Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States have referenee only to powers exercised by the United
States, and not to those exercised by the-States.
The provision mArticle III of the Constitution of the United States respecting the trial of crnines by jury relates to the judicial power of the United
States.
Artible VI of the Amendments to the Constitution of the United States respecting a speedy and public trial by jury; Articles V and VI respecting
the right of persons accused of crime to be confronted with the witnesses;
Article VIII respecting excessive fines, and cruel and unusual punishments;
and Article XIV respecting the abridgment of privileges, the deprivation
of liberty or property without due process of law, and the denial of the
equal protection of the laws, are not infringed by the statutes of Iowa
authorizing its courts, when a person violates an injunction restraining
him from selling intbxicating liquors, to punish hin as for contempt by
fine or imprisonment or both.
Proceedings according to the common law for contempt -of court are not
subject to "the right of trial. by jury, and are "due process of law,"
withn- the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution.
All the powers of courts -whether at common law or in chancery may be

OCTOBER TERM, 1889Opinion of the Court.

called into play by the legislature of a State, for the purpose of suppressing the manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors when they are prohibited by law, and to abate a nuisance declared by law to be such; and
the Constitution of the United States interposes no hindrance.
A District Court of a countyin Iowa is empowered to enjoin and restrain a
person from selling or keeping for sale intoxicating liquors, including ale,
wine and beer, in the county, and disobedience of the order subjects the
guilty party to proceedings for contempt and punishment thereunder.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

rf William A. JMcienney for plaintiffs in error.
Mr J S. Stru e, Mr S. M. [arsk and .Mr A. J Baker,
attorney general of Iowa, for defendant in error.
MR. JusTicE

MnLLEi delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Iowa.
The judgment which we are called upon to review is one
affirming the judgment of the District Court of Plymouth
County in that State. This judgment imposed a fine of five
hundred dollars and-costs on each of the six plaintiffs in error
in this case, and imprisonment in the jail of Plymouth County
for a period of three months, but they were to be released
from confinement if the fine-imposed was paid within thirty
days from the date of the -judgment.
This sentence was pronounced by the court as a punishment
for contempt in refusing to obey a writ of injunction issued
by that court, enjoining and restraining each of the defendants
from selling, or keeping for sale, any intoxicating liquors, including ale, wine and beer, in Plymouth County, and the sentence was imposed upon a hearing by the court, without a
jury, and upon evidence in the form of affidavits.
It appears that on the 11th day of June, 1885, separate petitions in equity were filed in the District Court of Plymouth
County against each of these plaintiffs in error, praying that
they should be enjoined from selling, or keeping for sale, intoxic;ting liquors, including ale, wine and beer, in that county
On the 6th of July the court ordered the issue of preliminary
injunctions as prayed. On the 7Ith of July the -writs were

EILENBECKER v. PLYROUTH COUNTY.
Opnon of the Court.

served on each of the defendants in eaeh proceeding by the
sheriff of Plymouth County On the 24th of October, complaints were filed, alleging that these plaintiffs- in error had
violated this injunction by selling intoxicating liquors contrary
to the law and the terms of the injunction served on them,
and asking that they be required to show cause why they
should not be punished for contempt of court. A rule was
granted accordingly, and the court, hving no personal knowledge of the facts charged, ordered that a hearing be had at
the next term of. the court, upon affidavits, and on the 8th
day of March, 1886, it being at the regular term of said District Court, separate trials were had upon evidence in the
form of affidavits, by the court without a jury, upon which
the plaintiffs were found guilty of a violation of the writs of
injunction issued in said cause, and a sentence of fine and imprisonment, as already stated, entered against them.
Each plaintiff obtained from the-Supreme Court of the State
of Iowa, upon petition, a writ of certiarz,in which it was
alleged that the District Court of Plymouth County had acted
without jurisdiction and illegally in rendering this judgment,
and by agreement of counsel, and with the consent of the
Supreme Court of Iowa, the cases of the six appellants in this
court were submitted together and tried on one transcript of"
record. That court affirmed the 3udgment of the District
Court of Plymouth County, and to that judgment of affirmance this writ of error is prosecuted.
The errors assigned here are that the Supreme Court of
Iowa failed to give effect to clause 3 of section 2 of Article III
of the Constitution of the United States, which provides that
the tri 1 of all crimes, except in cases of impeachment, shall
be by jury, and also to the provisions of Article VI of the
amendments to the Constitution, which provides that in all
criminal prosecutions the accused shall enjoy the right to a
speedy and public trial by an impartial jury
The second assignment is, that the Supreme Court of Iowa
erred in holding that plaintiffs could be fined and imprisoned
without first being presented by a grand jury, and could be
tried on exparte affidavits, which decision, it is said, is in conVOL. CXXXIV-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

flict with and contrary to the provisions of both Articles V and
VI of the amendments to the Constitution of the United
States, the latter of which provides that in all criminal prosecutions the accused shall enjoy the right to be confronted by
the witnesses against him.
The fourth assignment is, that the Supreme Court erred in
not holding thaz section 12 of chapter 143 of the acts of the
twentieth general assembly of Iowa is in conflict with Article
VIII of the amendments to the Constitution of 'the United
States, which provides that excessive fines shall not be imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted. These
three assignments, as will be presently seen, may be disposed
of together.
The third assignment is, that the Supreme Court of Iowa
erred in not holding that said chapter 143 of the acts of the
twentieth general assembly of Iowa, and especially section 12
of said chapter, is void, and in conflict with section 1 of Article XIV of the amendments to the Constitution of the United
States, in this, that it deprives persons charged with selling
intoxicating liquors of the equal protection of the laws, and it
prejudices the rights and privileges of that particular class of
persons, and denies to them the right .of trial by jury, while in
all other prosecutions the accused must first be presented by
indictment, and then have the benefit of trial by a jury of his
peers.
The first three of these- assignments of error, as we have
stated them, being the first and second and fourth of the assignments as numbered in the brief of the plaintiffs in error,
are disposed of at once by the principle often decided by this
court, that the first eight articles of the amendments to the
Constitution have reference to powers exercised by the government of the United States and not to those of the States.
Lzvzngston v .ifoore, 7 Pet. 469, The Tustices v Xurr'ay, 9
Wall. 274, Edwards v. Mlliott, 21 Wall. 532; 17nited States v
Cruiksanik, 92 U. S. 542, Walker v. Sauwnet, 92 U. . 90,
Fox v. Ohw, 5 How 410; Rolmes v Jennwon, 14 Pet. 540,
Presser v. llinozs, 116 U S. 252.
The limitation, therefore, of Articles V and VI and VIII

BILENBECKER v. PLYMOUTH COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

ofthose amendments,.beig intended exclusively to apply.to
the powers exercised by the government of the United States,
whether by Congress or by the judiciary,. and not as limitations upon the powers of the States, can have no application.
to the present case, and the same observation is more obviously
true in regard to clause 3 of section 2 of Article III of. the
original Constitution, that the trial of all crimes, except m
cases of impeachment, shall be by jury This Article III of
the Constitution-is intended to define the judicial power of the
United States, and it is in regard -to that power that the declaration is made that the trial of all crimes, except in cases of
impeachment, shall be by jury It is impossible to examine
the accompanying provisions of the Constitution without seeing very-clearly that this provision was not intended -to be
applied to trials in the state courts.
This leaves us alone the assignment of error that -the Supreme Court of Iowa disregarded the provisions of section 1
of Article XIV of the amendments to the Constitution of the
United States, because it upheld the statute of Iowa,' which it
1 Section 1543 of the Code of Iowa, as amended by c. 143 of the Acts of
the twentieth general assembly, is as follows.
Sec. 1513. In case of violation of the provisions of either of the three
preceding 'sections or of section fifteen hundred and twenty-five of this,
chapter, the building or erection of whatever kind, or the ground itself in
or upon which such unlawful manufacture -or sale,. or keeping, with intent
to sell, use or give away, of.any intoxicatinglquors, is carried on or continued.
or exists, and the furniture, fixture, vessels, and contents, is hereby declared
a nuisance, and shall be abated as hereinafter provided, and whoever shall
erect or establisb, or continue, or use any building, erection or place for
any of the purgoses prohibited in said sections, shall be deemed guilty of
a nuisance, and may be prosecuted and punished accordingly, and upon
conviction, shall pay a fine of not exceeding one thousand dollars and costs
of prosecution, and stand committed until the fine and costs are paid; and
the provisions of. chapter 47, title 25 of this Code, shall not be applicable
to persons committed under this section. Any citizen of the county where
such nuisance exists, or is kept or maintained, may maintain an action in
equity, to abate and perpetually en3oiji the same, and any person viblating
the terms of any m3unction granted in such proceeding shall be punished as
for contempt, by fine of not less than five hundred nor.more' than one thousand dollars or -byimprisonment in the county jailnot more than six months,
or by both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

is supposed by counsel deprives persons charged with selling
intoxicating liquors of the equal protection of the law, abridges
their rights and privileges, and denies to them the right of
trial by jury, while in all other criminal prosecutions the
accused.must be presented by indictment, and then have the
benefit of trial by a jury of his peers.
The first observation to be made on this subject is, that the
plaintiffs in error are seeking to reverse a, judgment of the
District Court of Plymouth County, Iowa, imposing upon
them a fine and imprisonment for violating the injunction of
that court, which had been regularly issued and served upon
them. Of the intentional violation of this injunction by
plaintiffs we are not permitted to entertain any doubt, and,
if we did, the record in the case makes it plain. Neither is
it doubted that they .had a regular and fair trial, after due
notice, and- opportunity to defend themselves in open court at
a regular term thereof.
The contention of these parties is, that they were entitled
to a trial by jury on the question as to whether they were
guilty or not guilty of the contempt charged upon them, and
because they did not have this trial by jury they say that
they were deprived of their liberty without due process of
law within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States.
If it has ever been understood that proceedings according
to the common law for contempt of court have been subject
to the right of trial by jury, we nave been unable to find any
instance of it. It has always been one of the attributes -one
of the powers necessarily incident to a court of justice - that
it should have- this power of vindicating its dignity, of enforcing its orders, of protecting itself from insult, without the
necessity of calling upon a jury to assist it m the exercise of
this power.
In the case in this court of EBxjate Terry, 128 U. S. 289,
this doctrine is fully asserted and enforced, quoting the language of the court in the case of Anderson v Dunn, 6 Wheat.
204, 227, where it was said that "'courts of justice are universally acknowledged to be vested, by their very creation, with

EILENBECKER v. PLYMOUTH COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

power to impose silence, respect and decorum in their presence,
and submission to their lawful mandates;" citing also with
approbation the language of the Supreme Judicial Court of
Massachusetts in Cartwrzght's Case, 114: -Mass. 230, 238, that
"the summary power to commit and punish for contempts
tending to obstruct or degrade the administration of justice
is inherent in courts of chancery and other superior courts,
as essential to the execution of their powers and to the maintenance of their authority, and is part of the law of the land,
within the meaning of Magna Charta and of the twelfth
article of our Declaration of Rights."
And this court, in Terry's ease, held that a. summary proceeding of the Circuit Court of the United States without a
jury, imposing upon Terry imprisonment for the term of six
months, was a valid exercise of the powers of the court; and
that the action of the Circuit Court was also without error
in refusing to grant. him a writ of habeas corpus. The case of
Terry came into this court upon application for a writ of habeas
.coxrus, and presented, as the case now before us does, the
question of the -authority of the Circuit Court to impose this
imprisonment on a summary hearing without those regular proceedings which include a trial by jury -which was affirmed.
The still more recent cases of Eixparte,Savn, 131 U S. 267,
and Exparte Cu&dy, 131 U. S. 280, assert very strongly the same
principle. In Exparte Robznson, 19 Wall. 505, 510, this court
speaks in the following language
"The power to punish for contempts is inherent in all
courts. Its existence is essential to the preservation of order
m judicial proceedings, and the enforcement of the judgments,
orders and writs of the courts, and consequently to the due
"admimstraton of justice. The moment the courts of the
United States were called into existence and invested with
jurisdiction over any subject, they became possessed of this
power. But the power has been limited and defined by the
act of Congress of March 2d, 1831. 4 Stat. 487.'
The statute, now embodied in ยง 725 of the Revised Statutes,
reads as follows "The power of the several courts of the
United States to issue attachments and inflict summary pun-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

ishments for contempts of court shall not be construed to
extend to any cases except the misbehavior of any person or
persons in the presence of the said courts or so near thereto as
to obstruct the administration of justice, the misbehavior of
any of the officers of the said courts in their official transactions, and the disobedience or reszstance by any oficer of the
said courts, -party,Yuror, witness, or any other person or per-'
sons to any lawful writ, _process, order, rule, decree, or coMmand of the said courts."
It will thus be seen that even in the act of Congress, intended to limit the power of the courts to punish for contempts of its authority by summary proceedings, there is
expressly left the power to punish in this summary manner
the disobedience of any party, to any lawful writ, process,
order, rule, decree or command of said court. This statute
was only designed for the government of the courts of the
United States, and the opinions of this court in the cases we
have already referred to show conclusively what was the
nature and extent of the power inherent in the courts of the
states by virtue of their organization, and that the punishments
which they were authorized to inflict for a disobedience to
their writs and orders were ample and summary, and did not
require the interposition of a jury to find the facts or assess
the punishment. This, then, is due process of law in regard
to contempts of courts, was due process of law at the time
the Fourteenth Amendment of the federal Constitution was
adopted, and nothing has ever changed it except such statutes
as Congress may have enacted for the courts of the United
States, and as each State may have enacted for the government of its own courts.
So far from any statute on this subject limiting the power
of the. courts of Iowa, the act of the legislature of that state,
authorizing the injunction which these parties are charged with
violating, expressly declares that for violating such 'injunction
a person doing so shall be punished for the contempt by a fine
of not less than five hundred or more.than a thousand dollars,
or by imprisonment in the county jail not more than six
months, or by both such fine and imprisonment, in the dis-

EILENBECKER v. PLYMOUTH 'COUNTY.
Opinion of -the Court.

cretion of the court. So that the proceeding. by which the
fine and imprisonment imposed upon these parties :for contempt in violating the injunction of the court, regularly issued
in a suit to which they were parties, is due process of
law, and always has been due process of law, and is the
process or proceeding by which courts have from time immemorial enforced the execution of their orders and decrees,
and cannot be said to deprive the parties of their liberty or
property without due process of law.,
The counsel for plaintiffs in error seek to evade the force of
this reasoning by the proposition that the entire statute under
which this injunction was issued is in the nature of a criminal
proceeding, and that the contempt of court of which these
parties have been found guilty is a crime for the punishment
of.which they have a right to trial by jury
We cannot accede to.this view of the subject. Whether an
attachment for a contempt of court, and the judgment of the
court punishing the party for such contempt, is in itself
essentially a .criminal proceeding or not, we do .not find it
necessary to decide. We simply hold that, whatever its
nature may be, it is an offence against the court and against
the administration of justice, for which courts have always
had the right to punish the party by summary proceeding and
without trial by jury, and that in that sense it is due process
of law within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Constitution. We do not suppose that that -provision of
the Constitution was ever intended to interfere with or abolish
the powers of the courts in proceedings for contempt, whether
this contempt occurred in the course, of a criminal proceeding
or of 'a civil suit.
We might rest- the case here, but the Plaintiffs in error
fall back upon the proposition that the statute of the Iowa
legislature concerning the sale of liquors, under which this
injunction was issued, is itself void, as depriving the parties
of their pioperty and of their liberty without due .procdss- of
la~v We are not prepared to say that this question arises
in the present case. The principal suit in which the injunetion was issued, for the contempt of which these parties have

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

been sentenced to imprisonment and to pay a fine, has never
been tried so far as this record shows. We do not know
whether the parties demanded a trial by jury on the question
of their guilty violation of that statute. We do not know
that they would have been refused a trial by-jury if they had
demanded it. Until the trial of that case has been had .they
are not injured by a refusal to grant them a jury trial. It is
the well-settled doctrine of this court that a part of a statute
may be void and the remainder may be valid. That part of
this statute which declares that no person shall own or keep,
or be in any way concerned, engaged or employed in owning
or keeping any intoxicating liquors with intent to sell the
same within this State, and all the prohibitory clauses of the
statute, have been held by this court to be within the constitutional powers of the state legislature, in the cases of AMugler v
Kansas,.123 U. S. 623, and Powell v Penn6ylvana, 127 U S.
678.
If the objection to the statute is that it authorizes a proceeding in the nature of a suit in equity to suppress the manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors which are by law prohibited, and to abate the musance which the statute declares
such acts to be, wherever carried on, we respond that, so far
as at present advised, it appears to us that all the powers of
a court, whether at common law or in chancery, may be
called into operation by a legislative body for the purpose of
suppressing this objectionable traffic, and we know of no
hindrance in the Constitution of the United States. to the
form of' proceedings, or to the court in which this remedy
shall be had. Certainly it seems to us to be quite as wise to
use the processes of the law and the powers of the court to
prevent the evil, as to punish the offence as a crime after it has
been committed.
We think it was within the power of the court of Plymouth
County to issue the writs of injunction in these cases, and
that the disobedience to them by the plaintiffs in error subjected them to the proceedings for contempt which were had
before that court.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Iowa is
.Aflfmed.

