'OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Counsel for Parties.

ment to be considered." A sufficient answer to this objection
is furnished in the findings of the court below that the account
of the commissioner for the fees charged for the services in
question was verified by oath and presented to the United
States court of which he was the commissioner, in open court,
in the presence of the district attorney, approved by the court,
and an order, approving the same as being in accordance with
law and just, was entered- upon the records of the court. The
approval of a commissioner's account by a Circuit Court of
the United States, under the act.of February 22, 1875, 18 Stat.
333, isopmmr fatez evidence of the correctness of the items of
that accoitnt, and in the absence of clear and unequivocal
proof of mistake on the part of the court it should be conclusive.,
We think the authorities cited by the attorney for the ap.pellee in support. of the claim in question are directly in point.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is
Affrmed.

IN iRE THE LOUIS.VILLE UNDERWRITERS,
Petitioners.
ORIGINAL.
No. 8. Original.

Argued March 10, 1890. -Decided

March 31,1890.

The provtsion of the Act of March 3, 1887, c. 373, § 1, 24 Stat. 552, that "no
civil suit" shall be brought before a Circuit or,District Court against
any person in any other district than that of which he is an inhabitant,
does not apply to cases in admiralty.
A libel in admiralty in personam may be maintained against a corporation in
any *district by service there upon an attorney appointed by the corporation, as required by the statutes of the State, to be served with legal
process.

Tis was a petitibn for- a writ of pro Libition.
stated in the opinion.
.Xr J .R.BecakwitAh for the petitioners.
M

0 B. Sansum. opposing.

The case is

IN RE LOUISVILLE UNDER WRITERS.

489

Opinion of the Court.

Mm. TusT.IcE GriAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a petition by a corporation of the State of Kentucky
for a writ of prohibition to the judge of the District Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, to
prohibit him from entertaining jurisdiction of a libel in admiralty = _versonam, filed April 23,1889, by the "Natchez and
New Orleans Packet and Transportation Company, also a
corporatioil of Kentucky, against the petitioner, "in a cause
of contract civil and maritime," upon a policy of insurance, by
which the petitioner insured against perils of the seas and
rivers and other perils a steamboat of the libellant employed
in the navigation of the Mississippi River.
By the public statute of Louisiana of February 26, 18'7, c.
21, no insurance company organized under the laws of any
other State shall take risks or transact any business through
an agent in Louisiana, without having filed in the office of the
secretary of State a certified copy of a vote 'of its directors,
appointing such an agent there to transact business and to
take risks, accompanied by a warrant of appointment from
the company, containing an express consent that service of
legal process on him shall be as valid as if served on'the company
By a copy of the record of the propeedings in the District
Court, annexed to the return-to the rule to show, cause why a
writ of prohibition should not issue, it appears that the libellee
had filed with the secretary of State of Louisiana a copy of a
vote of its directors, as well as a warrant of appointment,
appointing William M. Railey its attorney at New Orleans,
as required by the statute of Louisiana, that the *policysned
on was signed by the libellee's president and secretary at
Louisville in the State of Kentucky, was not to be binding
until countersigned by its authorized agent at New Orleans,
and was countersigned by Railey, that a citation to the libellee was issued by the District" Court, and served by the marshal upon Railey m person, that a motion to quash, the -libel,
and an exception to it, upon the ground, among others, that
neither party was an inhabitant of the Eastern District of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Louisiana and that the libellee had no property or credits
within the district, were overruled by the District Court, and
the libellee ordered to answer, and that the libellee thereupon
answered, and took depositions under commission.
Before the cause had been brought to a hearing, the petition
for a writ of piohibition was presented to this court.
It is admitted that the District Courts of the United States,
sitting in, admiralty, have jurisdiction of the matter of the
libel. Insurance Co. v Dunham, 11 Wall. 1. But it is argued, in-support of the prohibition, that no libel -in personam
can be sustained against a corporation in a district not within
the State In which it is incorporated, and this argument is
rested on the latter part of the following provision in the act
of i9arch 3, 1887, c. 373, § 1
"But no person shall be arrested in one district for trial in
another in any civil action before a Circuit or District Court;
and no civil suit shall be brought before either of said courts
against any person by any original process of proceeding in
any other district than.that whereof he is an inhabitant." 24
Stat. 552.
A brief reference to previous acts of Congress and decisions
of this court makes it clear that this provision has no application to causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction.
By the ancient and settled practice of courts of admiralty, a
libel in ersonam may be maintained for any cause within
their jurisdiction, wherever a monition can be served upon the
libellee, or an ittachment made of any personal property or
credits of his, and this practice, has been recognized and
upheld by the rules and decisions of this court. IRule 2 in
Admiralty, XaPn'o v Almeda,' 10 Wheat. 473, Atkins v
Di.sntegrating Co., 18 Wall. 272, -Yew England Ins. Co. v
.Detroit c6 Cleveland Steanm Nazgatiom Co., t8 Wall. 307,
Cushihg v LZaird, 107 U. S.69, Devoe Mawnufactumrng Co.,
Petitioner,108 U. S. 401.
The judgment, delivered at October term, 1873, in Atkins
v. Dmisntegrating Co., just cited, is really decisive of this case.
-The question there presented was the construction of that
Eprovision of the Judiciary Act of September 21, 1789, c. 20,

Il

RE LOUISVILLE UTDERWRITERS.
Opinion of the Court.

11, by which, after defining the jurisdiction of the Circuit

Courts in "suits of a civil nature at common law or in equity,"
in which the United States were plaintiffs, or an alien was a
party, or the suit was between a citizen of the State where i't
was brought and a citizen of another State, and also defining
the criminal jurisdiction of the Circuit and District Courts;
it was provided as follows
" But no -personshall be arrested in one district for trial m
another in any civil action before a Circuit or District 'Court,
and no civil suit shall be brought before either of said courts
against an inhabitant of the United States by any original
process in any other district than that whereof he is an inhabitant, or in which he shall be found at the time of serving the
writ." 1 Stat. '[9.
Upon a consideration of the acts of Congress upon the subject, and especially of other sections of the Judiciary Act of
11789, of which section 9 conferred upon the District Courts
"exclusive original cognizance of all civil causes of adnnralty
and maritime jurisdiction," and jurisdiction concurrent with
the Circuit Courts of certain "suits at common law" by the
United States, 1 Stat. 7 , section 21 authorized "final decrees in a Distrit Court in causes of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction" to be reviewed in the .Circuit Court on appeal,
and section 22 authorized "final decrees and judgments in civil
actions in a District Court" to be reviewed in the Circuit
Court by writ of error, 1 Stat. 83, 84, it was demonstrated
that the provision of section 11, above quoted, restricting
"civil suits" to the district of which the defendant was an
inhabitant or in which he might be found, did not include
causes of admiralty jurisdiction, and it was therefore adjudged
that a libel in admiralty in Sersonam might be maintained
against a corporation by attachment of its goods in a district
not within the State in which it was incorporated.
The provisions of sections 9; 11, 21 and 22- of the Judiciary
Act of 1789, above quoted, were reenacted .in substantially
the same words in the Revised Statutes. Rev. Stat. %§563,
cls. 4, 8, 629, cls. 1-3, 631, 633, 739.
The provision of section 11 of 'the ac, of 1789, embodied in

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

.§ 739 of the Revised Statutes, was reenacted with no material
alteration in the act-of March 3, 1875, c. 137, § 1, as follows
" But no person shall be arrested m one district for trial in
another in any civil action before a Circuit or District Court,
and no civil suit shall be brought before either of said courts
against any person by any original process or proceeding in
any other district than that whereof he is an inhabitant, or
in which he shall be found at the time of serving such process
or-commencing such proceeding." 18 Stat. 470.
The only changes (beyond the substitution of "person" for
"inhabitant of the United States") consisted in -insertilig, in
the middle' of the sentence, after the words "any original
process," the words "or proceeding," and in substituting, at
-the end of the sentence, for the words "serving the writ,"
the words "serving such process or commencing such proceeding." These changes in no way extended the meaning
of the leading words. "civil action" and "civil suit," but
merely affected the mode of commencing such action or suit,
and were probably intended to cover actions at law commenced
otherwise than by process, according to the practice, pleadings
and forms of proceeding in the courts of the States, which
had been made applicable to the Circuit and District Courts
of the United States by the act of 1872, regnacted in the
Revised Statutes. Act of June 1, 1872, c. 255, § 5, 17 Stat.
1975 IRev Stat. § 914.
The provision of the act of 1887 on -which the petitioner
relies -differs from the corresponding provision of the act of
1875 in two particulars only"
1st. In the clerical mistake, "process of proceeding" for
"process or proceeding;" which has been set right by the act
of 1888 correcting the enrolment of the act of 1887. Act of
August 13, 1888, c. 866, § 1< 25 Stat. 433.
2d. In striking out the last clause, permitting civil suits to
be brought in the district- in which the- defendant is found
at the time of service, and thus confining them to the district
of which he is an inhabitant. This change, far from weakening the reason-of the.,decision in A7ns v. Dz&tegatn Co.,
above cited, greatly strengthens it.

Il

RE LOUISVILLE UNDERWRITERS.
Opion of the Court.

Courts of admiralty are established for the settlement of
disputes between persons engaged in commerce and navigation, who, on the one hand, may be absent from their homes
for long periods of time, and, on the other hand, often have
property or credits n other places. In allnations, as observed
by an .early writer, such courts "have been directed to proceed at such tunes, and in such manner, as might best consist
with -the -opportunities of trade, and least hinder or detain
men from their employments." Zouch. Adm. Jur. 141. In
the same spirit this court has more than once said "Courts
of adniralty have been found necessary in all commercial
countries, for the safety and convenience of commerce and
the speedy decision of controversies, where delay would often
be ruin." The Genese. Chif, 12 fow 443, 454, I.nuraAe
Co. v. Dunham, 11 Wall. 1, 24. To compel suitors in adnmralty (when the ship is abroad and cannot be reached by
a libel sn rem). to resort to the home of the defendant, and
to prevent them from suing him in any district in which he
nmght be served with a summons or his goods or credits at•tached, would not only often put them to great delay,
inconvenience and expense, but would in many cases amount
to a deial of justice.
In the present case, the libellee had, in dompliance with
the law of Louisiana, appointed an agent at New Orleansi, on
whom legal process might be served, and the monition was
there served upon Lun. This would have been a good service
in an action at law m any court of the State or of -the United
States in .Louisiana. -Lafay/ette Ins. Co. v. French, 18 -How
404, Ex _arte Sclwllenerger, 96 U.. S. 369, -New England
ins. Co. v. Woodwoth, 111 U. S. 138, 146. And no reason
has. been or can be suggested .why it- should not be held
equally good in admiiralty
The District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana
having jurisdiction both-6f th6 cause and of the parties, the

Mit of prohibition ss denied.
A similar decision was made m the case, argued and 'decided at

the same time, No. 9, Original, Ex arte TEE ST.

PAUL FIRE A D

