CRE SHAW v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

had ever until then seen the premises or been in Chicago.
There was evidence also to show that during a great part of
that period he was a co-tenant with other minors who resided
out of the State of Illinois. Whether these facts were sufficient to explain the non-action of the plaintiff, and to negative
the presumption of a dedication or not, was a question for the
jury, which the court, by its charge, m effect withdrew from
their consideration.
We do not deem it necessary to refer to any of the other
assignments of error, as those we have discussed are sufficient
to dispose of the case.
It results from what we have said that the judgment of the
court below should be, and it hereby is,
Reversed, with a direction to order a new tmaZ, and to
take such furtherproceedings as shall not be 'inconsistent
with thss opoion.

CRENSHAW v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
ITo. 1081. Argued January 6, 1890. - Decided March 3, 1890.

The provision in the naval appropriation act of August 5. 1882, c. 391, ยง 1,.
which directs, in certain cases, the honorable discharge of naval cadets
from the navy, with one year's sea pay, is not in conflict with the contract clause of the Constitution of the Uiited States.
An officer in the army or navy of the United States does not hold his office
by contract; but at the will of the sovereign power.
It is not within the power of a legislature to deprive its successor of the
power of repealing an act creating a public office.

Tnis was an action, brought by the appellant, James D. Crenshaw, in the Court of Claims, for the purpose of recovering
an alleged-balance of $3763.66 due him on account of salary
as a midshipman in the United States navy The Court of
Claims dismissed the appellant's petition, 24: C. C1. 57, and
an appeal from that judgment brought the case here.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

The material facts in the case were as follows: In September,
1877, the appellant was appointed a cadet midshipman at the
Naval Academy At that time the provisions of the Revised
Statutes in force and pertinent to this inquiry were'as follows:
"SEc. 1520. The academic course of cadet midshipmen shall
be six years.
"SEC. 1521. When cadet midshipmen shall have passed successfully the graduating examination at the academy, they
shall receive appointments as midshipmen and shall take rank
according to their proficiency as shown by the order of their
merit at date of graduation."
"SEC. 1556. The commissioned officers and warrant officers
on the active list of the navy of the United States, and the
petty officers, seamen," etc., "shall be entitled to receive
annual pay at the rates herein stated after their respective
Midshipmen, after graduation, when
designations.
at sea, one thousand dollars; on shore duty, eight hundred
dollars; on leave or waiting orders, six hundred dollars.
Cadet midshipmen, five hundred dollars."
" SEc. 1229. The President is authorized to, drop from the
rolls of the army for desertion any officer who is absent from
duty three months without leave, and no officer so dropped
shall be eligible for reappointment. And no officer in the
military or naval service shall in time of peace be dismissed
from service except upon and in pursuance of the sentence of
a court-martial to that effect,-or in commutation thereof."
The appellant accepted the appointment and entered on his
He completed the course of four
studies at the academy
years, and after passing a successful examination received a
certificate from the academic board m the following words, to
wit.
"This certifies that Cadet -Midshipman James D. Crenshaw
has completed the prescribed course of study at the United
States Naval Academy, and has successfully passed the required examination before the academic board preparatory to
the two years' course afloat.
"June 10, 1881."

CRENSHAW v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

On the 25th of August following, appellant was ordered to
sea by the Navy Department, and directed to report for duty
on board the steamer Pensacola. This he did. While he
was serving on that steamer, under the aforesaid order, Congress passed an act, approved August 5, 1882, being the naval
appropriation act, in which occurs this proviso
"That hereafter there shall be no appointments of cadet
midshipmen or cadet engineers at the Naval Academy, but in
lieu thereof naval cadets shall be appointed from each Congressional district and at large, as now provided by law for
cadet midshipmen, and all the undergraduates at the Naval
Academy shall hereafter be designated and called 'naval
cadets,'1 and from those who successfully complete the six
years' course, appointments shall hereafter be made as it is
necessary to fill vacancies in the lower grades of' the. line and.
engineer corps of the navy and of the marine corps Andprowdedfirther, That no greater number of appointments into
these grades shall be made each year than shall equal the
number of vacancies which has occurred in the same grades
during the preceding year, such appointments to be made
from the graduates of the year, at the conclusion of their six
years' course, n the order of merit, as determined by the
academic board of the Naval Academy; the assignment to
the various corps to be made by the Secretary of the Navy
upon the recommendation of the academic board. But nothing herein contained shall reduce the number of appointments
from such graduates below ten in each year, nor deprive of
such appointment any graduate who may complete the six
years' course during the year eighteen hundred and eightytwo. And if there be a surplus of graduates, those who do
not receive such appointment shall be given a certificate of
graduation, an honorable discharge, and one year's sea pay, as
now provided by law for cadet midshipmen, etc., etc." 22
Stat. 284-, 285, c. 391.
As stated above, this statute was passed while appellant
was engaged in his service, on the Pensacola. Ile continued on that vessel until the 14th of March, 1883, when he was
ordered to report to the superintendent of the'Naval Academy

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

for examination. He proceeded to the academy, passed his
final examination successfully, and, on the 15th of June, 1883,
received from the academic board his certificate of graduation,
reciting that, "We, the academic board of the United States
Naval Academy, having thoroughly examined Naval Cadet
James D. Crenshaw on all subjects, theoretical and practical,
taught at this institution, and having found him proficient in
each, do hereby, in conformity with the law, grant to him
this certificate of graduation. June 15, 1883."
On the 23d of June following he received this order"
"Navy Department, Bureau of Navigation andOffice of Detail.
"Washington, June 23, 1883.
"Sir You are hereby detached from the Naval Academy,
proceed home and regard yourself waiting orders.
"By direction of the Secretary of the Navy
"Respectfully,
J E. WALKEn, Chzef of Bureau."
On the 26th of the same month an order, as follows, was
issued
"Sir" R aving successfully completed your six years' course
at the United States Naval Academy, and having been given
a certificate of graduation by the academic board, but not
being required to fill any vacancy in the service happening
during the year preceding your graduation, you are hereby
discharged from the 30th of June, 1883, with one year's sea
pay, as prescribed by law for cadet midshipmen, in accordance
with the provisions of the act approved August 5, 1882.
"Respectfully, W E. CiNmmLER, Secretaryof the 3Tavy."
"Naval Cadet James D. Crenshaw, U S. Navy"
Since the date of that order appellant has not been called
on to do duty, and has not received any- pay except that
credited on his claim. In this state of the case he claimed that
he was still a midshipma". in the naval service, and, as such,
entitled to pay This claim was based upon the following propositions

CRENSHAW v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

(1) That when he accepted the appointment of cadet midshipman he became an officer of the navy, and, as such, entitled
to the benefits of section 1229, and Art. 36 of section 1624,
(which is to the same effect,) of the Revised Statutes, that such
acceptance constituted a statutory contract with the United
States based on a valuable consideration, under which he was
entitled to hold the office for life, unless removed by sentence
of a court-martial, or in commutation thereof,
(2) That he was- not, therefore, discharged by competent
authority -because, first, since the reenactment by Congress
in 1874 of section 1229 and Art. 36 of section 16241 of the
Revised Statutes, neither Congress, the Secretary of the Navy,
nor any department of the government was competent in time
of peace to discharge an officer from the naval service,
(3) That, independently of the act of July 13, 1866, 14
Stat. 92, c. 176, ยง 5, (section 1229 and Art. 36 of section 1624
aforesaid,) the act of 1882 is unconstitutional, as applied to
him, for the reason that he held an office by contract with the
United States, and was entitled on graduation to be a midshipman -to serve for life or during good behavior,
(4) That not only was the act of August 5, 1882, inoperative, as to him, for the reason stated, but also for the further
reason that to apply it to his class would be to make Congress
appoint to the office of naval cadet all such students as were
in his situation, but that while.Congress had the power, under
the Constitution, to create the office, it did not have the power
to designate the offcers, that being the constitutional duty of
the executive; and
(5) That the case of appellant did not fall within the terms
of the act of 1882, that he was not at the date of its passage
an undergraduate of the academy, but had graduated, and
that, therefore, his discharge was not authorized by that act.
.. 0 Claughto (with whom was Mr .Rodoleph
Olaughton, on the brief) for appellant:
Mr Asswtant Attorney General.faury for appellees.
MR. JusTIcE LAt=,

having made the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

The primary question in this case, one which underlies the
first, second and third of appellant's propositions stated above,
is, whether an officer appointed for a definite time or during
good behavior had any vested interest or contract right in his
office of which Congress could not deprive him 2 The question
is not novel. There seems to be but little difficulty in deciding
that there was no such interest or right. The question was
before this court in Butler v Pennsylvansa, 10 How 402,
416. In that case Butler and others, by virtue of a statute of the
State of Pennsylvania., had been appointed canal commissioners
for a term of one year, with compensation at four dollars per
diem, but during their incumbency another statute was passed,
whereby the compensation was reduced to three dollars, and
it was claimed their contract rights were thereby infringed.
The court drew a distinction between such a situation and
that of a contract, by which "perfect rights, certain definite,
.fixed private rights of property, are vested." It said "These
are clearly distinguishable from measures or engagements
adopted or.undertaken by the body politic or.state government for the benefit of all, -and from the necessity of the case,
and according to universal understanding, to be varied or
discontinued as the public good shall require. The selection
of officers, who are nothing more than agents for -the effectuating of such public purposes, is matter of public convenience
or necessity, and so, too, are the periods for the appointment
of such agents, but neither the one nor the other of these
arrangements can constitute any obligation to continue such
agents, or to reappoint them, after the measures which brought
them into being shall have been found useless, shall have been,
fulfilled, or shall have, been abrogated as even detrimental to
the well-being of the public. The promised compensation for
services actually performed and accepted, during the continuance of the particular agency, may undoubtedly be claimed,
both upon principles of compact and of equity, but to insist
beyond this on the perpetuation of a public policy either useless or detrimental, and upon a reward for acts neither desired
nor performed, would appear to be reconcilable with neither
common justice nor common sense. The establishment of such

CRENSHAW v. UNITED STATES.
Opnion of the Court.

a principle would arrest necessarily everything like progress
or improvement in government, or if changes should be ventured upon, the government would have to become one great
pension establishment on which to quarter a host of sinecures.
It follows, then, upon principle, that, in every perfect
or competent government, there must exist a general power
to enact and to repeal laws, and to create, and change or
discontinue, the agents designated for the execution of those
laws. Such a power is indispensable for the preservation of
the body politic, and for the safety of the individuals of the
community It is true, that this power, or the extent of its
exercise, may be controlled by the higher organic law or constitution of the State, as is the case in some instances in the
state constitutions, and as is exemplified in the provision of
the federal Constitution relied on in this case by the plaintiffs
in error, and in some other clauses of the same instrument,
but where no such restriction is imposed, the power must rest
We have
in the discretion of the government alone.
already shown, that the appointment to and the -tenure of an
office created for the public use, and the regulation of the
salary affixed to such an office, do not fali within the meaning
of the section of the Constitution relied on by the plaintiffs
in error, do not come within the import of the term contracts,
or, in other words, the vested, private personal rights thereby
intended to be protected. They are functions appropriate to
that class .of powers and obligations by 'which governments,
are enabled, and are called upon, to foster and promote the
general good, functions, therefore, which governments cannot
be presumed to have surrendered, if indeed they can under
any-circumstances be justified in surrendering them."
The case of Nfewton v Commsswners, 100 U. S. "518, 559,

is in point. That was a controversy over the projected removal of a county seat, and the statute relied on by the
objectors .provided that before the seat of justice should be
considered as permanently established at the town of Canfield,
the citizens thereof should do certain things, all of which were
admitted to have been duly done. The objectors, therefore,
claimed a contract right that the county seat should remain

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

at Canfield. This court said "The legislative power of a
State, except so far as restrained by its own constitution, is at
all times absolute with respect to all offices within its reacn.
It may at pleasure create or abolish them, or modify their
duties. It may also shorten or lengthen the term of service.
And it may increase or diminish the salary or change the
mode of compensation. The police power of the States, and
that with respect to municipal corporations, and to many
other things that might be named, are of the same absolute
character," citing Cooley Const. Lin. pp. 232, 342, Thte
Regents v Williams, I G. & J 321 [Que. 9 G. & J. 365].
"In all thtse cases there can be no contract and no irrepealable law, because they are "governmental subjects,' and hence
within the category before stated. They involve yubll
snterests, and legislative acts concerning them are necessarily
2 ublic laws. Every succeeding legislature possesses the same
jurisdiction and power with respect to them as its predecessors. The latter have the same.power of repeal and modification which the former had of enactment, neither more nor less.
All occupy, in this -respect,a footing of perfect equality This
must necessarily be so in the nature of things. It is vital to
the public welfare that each one should be able at all times to
do whatever the varying circumstances and present exigencies
tou6hing the subject involved may require. A different result
would be fraught with evil."
In Stone v. .Missmsppt, 101 IU.S.814, 820, considering the
power of a legislature to grant an irrepealable charter, for a
consideration, to a lottery company, the court said "The
power of governing is -atrust committed by the people to the
government, no part of which can be granted away The
people, m their sovereign capacity, have established their
agencies for the preservation of the public health and the
public morals, and the protection of public and private rights.
These several agencies can govern according to their discretion, if within the scope of their general authority, while in
power, but they cannot give away nor sell the discretion of
.those that are to come after them, in respect'to matters 'the
government .of which, from the very nature of things. must

ORENSHAW v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

'vary with varying circumstances.'"
See, also, H~all v. Wisconssn, 103 U. S. 5, lnited States v. Fisher,109 U S. 143.
Nor is the holding of this court singular. Numerous decisions
to the same effect are to be found in the state courts. The
People v. .MAorrwzs, 13 Wend. .325, Commonwealth v Bacon,
6 S. & R. 322, Commonwealth v -Mann, 5 W & S. 403, 418,
A. J Hyde v T7h State, 52 Mississippi, 665, The State of
~sszss?,2pvvv Smedes and -MarshaZl, 26 Mississippi, 47, Turpen
v. Board of Commzssoners of TY ton Co., 7 Indiana, 172,
Haynes v. T1w State, 3 Humphrey, 480, Benford v Gibson,
15 Alabama, 521.
In Blahw v United States, 103 1U. S. 227, the fact is adverted to and the opinion of the Attorney General in Lansing's case, 6 Opinions Attys. Gen. 4, quoted approvingly to
the effect that in-this respect of official tenure there is no difference in law between officers in the army -and other officers
of the government.
Applying the above princiiles, it remains to say that we
know of no instance in which their assertion is more imperatively demanded by the public welfare than in this case, and
such others as this. If the position taken by the appellant is
correct, then a logical and unavoidable result is, that our
country, if ever we are so unfortunate as to be again involved
in wii, will be compelled, after the treaty of peace, to maintain the entire official force of the army and navy, and a host.
of smecurists in full pay so long as they shall live, either that
or to disband the arriy and navy before the peace shall be
made, even, this wholly inadmissible alternative being legally
possible from one of appellant's positions. It is impossible to
believe that. such a condition of affairs was ever contemplated
by the framers of our organic or statute law
The effect of the authorities cited above, is in no respect
modified by section 1229 or by Art. 36 of section '$24 of the
Revised Statutes. In the first place, if it were ganted that
those sections mean what appellant claims for them -if
they
mean beyond question that one- appointed as a cadet shall
never be dismissed by authority of either the executive or the
legislature, or by both in-conjunction - yet that fact would

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

make no difference. The great question of protection to contraot rights and vested interests, which forms such an interestmg and important feature of our constitutional law, is not
dominated by the turn of a phrase. Our courts, both state
and national, look on these questions through the form to
the substance of things, and, in substance, a statute under
which one takes office,, and which fixes the term of office at
one year, or during good behavior, is the same as one which
adds to those provisions the declaration that the incumbent
shall not be dismissed therefrom. Whatever the form of the
statute, the officer under it does not hold by contract. lie
enjoys a jdrvilege revocable by the sovereignty at will, and
one legislature cannot deprive its successor of the power of
revocation. Butler"v Pennsylvanza, supra, Stone v .MXsszssnppi, supra,. Cooley's Const. Lim. 283, Untted States v
.afcDonald, 128 U. S. 471, 473.
In the second place,. section 1229 and Art. 36 of section 1624
of the Revised Statutes are a reproduction in the revision of
the act of July 13, 1866, section 5, supra, and in Blake v
Untted States, supra, the court decided that that act only
operated to withdraw from the President the power previously
existing in him of removing officers at w1l, and without the
concurrence of the Senate, and that there was no intention
to withdraw from him the power to remove with the advice
and concurrence of the Senate. If that cons+.uction of the
statute be correct (and we see no cause for altering our view)
it necessarily follows that it was not intended to place an officer where he never before had been -beyond the power of
Congress to make any provision for his removal even by the
Executive who appointed him.
It is claimed, however, that the construction so given to the
act of 1866 was induced by the consideration of certain other
statutes n _pan mnaterza, and that the reintroduction of it in
the revision, unaccompanied by those other statutes, would
render that construction inapplicable now We do not think
so. We have already considered the act of 1866 in its historical relations, and from the circumstances of its enactment
deduced ifA.meaning. When it was reenacted with all other

CRENSHAW v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

statutes .of general interest, the political exigency which furnished the primary motive for its reenactment had drifted
away with the lapse of time; but we do not think it can avail
to give to a statute which, after all, is but a reenactment in
the exact language of the original act, a meaning almost directly
the reverse of that given to the original act. To give such
effect to the action of Congress in codifying the statutes would
go far to subvert all decisions and introduce chaos into our
jurisprudence.
Thus far we have preferred to decide the case upon the
broad grounds above stated, and, therefore, considered it as if
the term of office enjoyed by the appellant was what he claims
it to have been- a term for life. In fact, however, even if
that were true as to other officers, it was not true as to him.
The statute applicable to his case is section 1520 of the Revised
Statutes, which fixes the academic course at six years; and
when he entered the service under the regulations in such
cases provided he executed a bond to serve for eight years,
unless discharged by competent authority, thus recognizing his
liability to be discharged.
As to the fourth proposition of appellant, that in enacting
the 9tatute of 1882 Congress assumed the power of appointment which belongs to the Executive; we do not so regard the
act. Congress did not thereby undertake to name the incumbent of any office. It simply changed the name, and modified
the scope of the duties. This we think it had the power to do.
We think, too, that the appellant came within the terms of
the act of 1882. There is a very plain distinction between
this case and that of a cadet engineer, fully explained in
Undted States v 1?edgrave; 116 U. S. 474. The statute in
express .terms provides that "the academic course of. cadet
midshipmen shall be six years." If the Navy Department
had assumed to make any regulations by which the final graduation should take place in less time, such regulations would
have been void. But it did not so assume. It arranged for a
two years course afloat as a part of the academic course, and
exacted a preliminary examination to test the cadet's qualifications therefor. But the cadet afloat was a member of the

