OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

BIYAN v. KALES.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF ARIZONA.
No. 1287. Submitted January 7, 1890. -Decided

March 3,1890.

The defence of laches on the part of a plaintiff seeking relief in equity
may be set up under a general demurrer.
The granting or refusing relief in equity on the ground of laches in applying for it must depend upon the special circumstances of each case.
A bill in equity alleged that on the 24th September, 1883, letters of administration upon the estate of a deceased person were granted to one of
his creditors whose several debts were secured by mortgages upon the
estate of which he died seized, that on the 28th day of the same month,
the administrator, though having in his possession money sufficient to
discharge those claims, proceeded to foreclose the mortgages, and did
on the 16th of the next October take judgment in his individual name
against himself as administrator for the amount of the claims and for
attorney's fees, and in the following December caused the various parcels to be sold that the property brought much less than its real value,
or than it would have brought at an open sale; that one of the tracts
was bought by the administrator and assigned by him to the judge by
whom the decree was rendered, that the wife of the deceased survived
him, that all the property was acquired during marriage and was common property of the.husband and wife, and, at the.decease of the husband,
descended to the wife; and that on the 20th of June, 1887 she conveyed
her rights to the plaintiff. The bill which was filed July 18, 1887 made
the several purchasers, the administrator, and the judge who rendered the
decree, defendants, and asked to have the decree of sale and the sales
thereunder set aside, and for further relief. To this complaint the
defendants demurred, and the demurrer was sustained. Held, that the
circumstances set forth in the complaint were of so peculiar a character,
that a court of equity should be slow in denying relief upon the mere
ground of laches in bringing the suit.
THE

court stated the case as follows.

This suit was brought by the appellant on the 18th of July,
1887, in the District Court of the Second Judicial District of
Arizona, and was there heard upon demurrer to the complaint. The demurrer was sustained, and the plaintiff refusing to amend, the suit was dismissed. That judgment having
been affirmed by the Supreme Court of the Territory, the
only question is whether the facts alleged iu the complaint -

BRYAN v. KALES.
Statement of the Case.

assumnng, as we must, that they are true-

set forth a cause

of action entitling the plaintiff to relief.
The case made by the complaint is as follows Jonathan
M. Bryan was the owner at the time of his death on the 29th
of August, 1883, (1) of the southeast quarter section number
thirty-three, in township two north, of range three east, of
the district of lands subject to sale at the land, office of the
United States at Tucson, Arizona, and of the Gila and Salt
River Meridian, (2) the northeast quarter of section five, in
township one north, of range three east, of the same district
and meridian, and lying one-half mile north of the city of
Phcenix, in Maricopa County, Arizona. such piece of land
being once called the " Shortle ranch," but now commonly
known as "Central Place;" (3) the southeast quarter of section nine, in township one north, of range three east, of the
same meridian and district, and (4) all of block ninety-eight
in the city of Phcenix, according, to a map or plat of that city,
made by William A.. Hancock, surveyor of the town site of
such city, and on file in the office of the county recorder of
Maricop% County
On or about the 94th of September, 1883; letters of administration upon his estate were issued by the probate court of
Maricopa County to M. W Kales, who immediately qualified
and entered upon his duties as administrator, continuing to be
and to act as such until December 6, 1884, when he was discharged. Since that date there has been -no administrator of
the decedent's estate.
While Bryan was the owner and in possession of the abovedescribed real estate, he executed to Kales, four pronnssory
notes for the amounts, respectively, of $1200, $2500, $15Q0
and $500, dated December 11, 1882, February 23, 1883, Fekruary 26, 1883, and March 14, 1883, and payable, respectively,
Deceniber 11, 1883, February 23, 1884, October 26, 1883, and
September 14, 1883,- each note calling for interest payable
every three months, at the .rate of one and a half per cent
per. month,, and, if not so paid, the note to become due and
payable. At the date of each note he executed, acknowledged and delivered to Kales a mortgage upon real estate to

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

secure its payment, upon the first of the above-described
pieces of real estate, to secure the note for $1200, upon the
second, to secure the note for $2500, upon the third, to secure
the note for $1500, and upon the fourth, to secure the note
for $500. These mortgages were all duly recorded.
Before the notes fell due, and before they were presented
for allowance against the estate of Bryan, in the probate
court having jurisdiction thereof, and without application to
any court for an order to pay the notes or any of them, or to
sell any property of the estate to pay them, and "while holding in his hands as administrator sufficient money to pay all
the principal and interest which might become due on said
notes or any of them," Kales on the 28th of September, 1883,
instituted, in the District Court of the Second Judicial District of Arizona, in and for Maricopa County, in his individual name, an action against himself as administrator. He
.declared, in that action, upon the notes and mortgages, and
prayed judgment against himself as administrator for the sum
of fifty-seven hundred dollars, with interest on twelve hundred dollars of [that] sum from the 11th day of June, 1883,
on twenty-five hundred dollars from the 23d day of May,
1883, on fifteen hundred dollars from the 6th day of May,
1883, and on five hundred dollars from June 14, 1883, the
interest on each sum to be at the rate of one and a half per
cent per month, with a like rate of interest upon the principal sum named in any judgment or decree that may be
obtained from the date thereof until the same shall be fully
paid and satisfied, and for ten per cent for attorneys' fees
upon forty-two hundred dollars of the principal sum, and five
per cent for attorneys' fees upon twenty-five hundred dollars
of the .principal sum, and for costs of suit.
He also prayed that the usual decree be made for the sale
of the premises by the sheriff according to law and the practice of the court, that the proceeds of sale be applied in
payment of the amount due the plaintiff, that the defendant
and all persons claiming under him or his decedent subsequent
to the execution of the mortgages upon the premises, either
as purchasers, incumbrancers, or otherwise, be barred and

BRYAN v. KALES.
Statement of the Case.

foreclosed of all right, claim, or equity of redemption in the
premises and every part thereof, and that the plaintiff have
judgment against the defendant, as administrator of the estate
of J M. Bryan, deceased for any deficiency remaining after
applying the proceeds of the sale of the premises properly
applicable to the satistactaon of the judgment, and that such
deficiency be made a claim against the estate of the said J. M.
Bryan, deceased, to be paid as other claims against said estate.
He further prayed that the plaintiff or any other party to
the suit might become a purchaser at the sale, that the
sheriff execute a deed to the purchaser, that the latter be
let into the possession of the premises on production of the
sheriff's deed therefor, and that the plaintiff have such other
or further relief in the premises as to.the court seemed meet
and equitable.
A. summons was sued out by M. W Kales as an individual
against himself as administrator, requiring the latter to appear
-and answer the complaint. It was personally served on the
day it was issued, and, on the succeeding day, October 6, 1883,
in his capacity as administrator, he made the following answer
to the complaint filed by himself in his individual capacity
"The defendant, M. W Kales, administrator of the estate
of J M. Bryan, deceased, answering the complaint on file in
this action, admits each and every material allegation in the
said complaint,. and consents that judgment and decree be
entered in accordance with the prayer thereof."
In other words, M[. W Kales consented that he might -as
an individual take judgment against himself as administrator.
On the 16th of October, 1883, the court, D. H. Pinney
being the judge thereof, rendered a decree of foreclosure'
and sale, finding, upon the complaint, -answer and proofs
heard, that there was due to the plaintiff, M. W Kales, from
the defendant, M. W Kales, administrator, the sums, with
interest, specified in the several mortgages, with the attorney's
fee provided for in the mortgages and claimed in the complaint, and directing the proceeds of the sale of each parcel
to be applied to the debt secured' by the mortgage -on that
parcel.
voL. CXX3UV-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement ox the Case.

The decree furtier provided
"That the defendant, M. W Kales, as administrator as
aforesaid, and all persons claiming or to claim from or under
him or from or under the said T -M.Bryan, deceased, and all
persons having liens subsequent to said mortgages by judgment, decree, or otherwise upon the lands described in said
mortgages or either of them, and they or their personal representatives, and all persons having any lien or claim by or under such subsequent judgment or decree, and their personal
representatives, and all persons claiming under them, be forever barred and foreclosed of and from all equity of redemption and claim in, of, and to said mortgaged premises and
every part and parcel thereof from and after the delivery of
said sheriff's deed.
"And it is.further adjudged and decreed that if the moneys
arising from said sale of any of the separate parcels of said
lands described in either of the respective mortgages shall be
insufficient to pay the amount so found due to the plaintiff, as
above stated, upon each of the respective mortgages, with
interests and costs and expenses of sale as aforesaid, the
sheriff specify the amount of such deficiency and balance due
the plaintiff upon each of the respective mortgages separately
in his return of sale, and that on the coming in and filing
of said returns of deficiency the same shall become a claim
against the estate of J Mvi. Bryan deceased, to be paid as
other claims are paid."
The remainder of the decree contains a description of the
property or parcels of land covered by the respective mortgages.
On the 8th of November, 1883, the District Court made an
order commanding the sheriff to sell upon notice all the property described in the mortgages, and make return thereof.
Pursuant to that order, the sheriff, L. H. Orme, advertised,
and on the 15th of December, 1883, sold, the property in
parcels, as follows The first parcel to Robert Garside for
$1500, the second to Mv. W Kales for $2975, the third to
William Qilson for $1850, and the fourth to M. W Kales for

BRYAN v. KALES.
Statement of tho Case.

$600. The amount bid for each parcel was much less than
such parcel was worth in open market, or than it would have
brought at the usual sheriff's sale. The sheriff delivered to
each purchaser a certificate of sale. He made his return of
sales oh the 26th of Decemberi 1883, but the sales have never
been confirmed by the District Court.
After the sales and before the. making of any deeds, Kales
assigned to J T. Simms the certificate of sale for the second
parcel, and to D. H. Pinney the certificate of sale for the
fourth parcel. On the 16th of June, 1884-, the sheriff executed
a deed for the first parcel to.'Garside, who, by deed of IMay
20, 1887,. sold and conveyed to J DeBarth Shorb. Simms,
having received from, the sheriff, June 10, 1884, a deed for the
second parcel, sold and conveyed, by deed of February "28,
1887, to George T. Brasius, who subdivided itinto blocks and
lots as- Central Place," and, subsequently, Mlay 3, 1887, sold
and conveyed one lot to John W Jeffries, and, May 5, 1887,
another lot to Henry W Ryder. Gilson received a sheriff's
deed for the third parcel, June 19, 1884:, and, April 6, 1886,
sold and conveyed to Cordelia L. Beckett, wife of C. G.
Beckett. The fourth. parcel was conveyed by the sheriff,
June 16, 188, to D. H. Pinney, who, September 10, 1886,
sold and conveyed a portion thereof to the Bank oi Napa, a
corporation, existing under the laws of California. Another
,portion of the fourth parcel was conveyed by Pinney, Novembe' 18, 1886, to F Q. Story, who sold and conveyed to M. H.
Sherman.
Bryan left no descendants. His wife, Vina Bryan, survived
hun. All the property in question was acquired by him during,
marriage, and, at the time of his death, - the complaint alleges, - was the common property of himself and wife, and,
upon -his death, she became and was his sole heir, and to. her
all of the common property descended, and in her remained
until June 29, 1887, when, by deeds of conveyance, she
granted, released and conveyed to the present plaintiff all of
these lands, together with all her estate, right, interest and
claim in the same and every part thereof.
The complaint makes all of the persons hereinbefore named

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

as having purchased at sheriff's sale or received conveyances
for these parcels of land defendants to this suit. It alleges
that of "all the facts herein alleged, the defendants and each
of them, at all the times herein mentioned, had full notice,
that the defendant, D. H. Pinney, was the judge of the said
District Court, and acted as such in all the proceedings had
in the said action, wherein said defendant, M. W Kales, was
plaintiff, and said M. W Kales, as administrator of the estate
of J A. Bryan, deceased, was defendant, and said defendant,
D. H. Pinney, rendered and made the said decree of foreclosure and order of sale therein and was so the judge of said
District.Court at the time of the assignment to him by said
defendant, M. W Kales, of the sheriff's certificate of sale of
said block number 98, in saia city of Phcenix, and also at
the time of the execution and delivery to him by the said
sheriff of the said sheriff's deed thereof."
The plaintiff, after alleging that the premises described in
the complaint are of the value of $125,000, prayed
That the proceedings, judgment, decree and order of sale
had, made, rendered or entered in the action brought by Kales
be annulled, set aside, and declared void',
That the sale of the property, and the certificate of sale and
deeds made to Kales, Garside, Gilson, Pinney and Simms be
set aside and declared void, and the parts and portions of the
property conveyed to the several defendants be decreed to
have been received by them. and each of them with notice
and in trust for Vina Bryan and her grantee, the plaintiff
herein,
That the defendants .and each of them, now pretending to
claim or own the above property or any part thereof, be
decreed to, hold the same and each part claimed by them in
trust for the plaintiff, and required to convey to him upon his
doing whatever the court adjudged should be equitably done
by him,
That the defendants and each of them be enjoined from
selling, conveying, mortgaging or in any way interfering with
the premises, and
That the plaintiff have such other and further relief as may
be just and equitable.

:BRYAN v. KALES.
Opinion of the Court.

.'' William, A. -Ho-enney,for appellant, on the question
of laches, cited MJoss v"Berry, 53 Texas, 632, Railroad Co.
v. Dubows, 12 Wall. 47, Lux v IHaggin, 69 California, 255,
Stockman v. Rsverside Land &co. Co., 64: California, 57, .Yelly
v Hurt, 61 Missouri, 463, -Fielding& Gwynn v -DuBose,63
Texas, 631, Hill v -Epley, 31 Penn. St. 331, BKnouff v
Thompson, 16 Penn. St.-357, Bales v. Perry,51 Missouri,.449,
Strong v. -Ellworth,26 Vermont, 366, Suphmne v Dunbar, 55
Mississippi, 255, .zIce v Dewey, 54: Barb. 455, .Aayo v Cartwrzght, 30 Arkansas, 407, Nfeal v Gregory, 19 Florida, 356-;
Bramble v .Ringsbury, 39 Arkansas, 131, Terre Haute &c.
Railroad v Rode, 89 Indiana, 128, Viele v Judson, 82 N. Y
32, Difenback v V'ogeler, .61 Maryland, 370, .feley v Collins,
4:1 California, 663.
M
Wiliam P'isnckney Whyte and -Mr Clark Churchill,
for appellees, cited to the same point Harwood v. Railroad
Co., 17 Wall. 78, Dwfendorf v House, 9 How Pr. 243,
The .Key City, 14 Wall. 653, Badger v Badger, 2 Wall. 87,
Spe?,del v Hewmtw, 120 U. S. 377, Rtchards v .Mackall, 124
U. S. 189, Smith v Clay, 3 Bro. Oh. 639 n., Psatt v. -Fattier,
9 Pet. 405, Mo.Knight v Taylor, 1 How 161, Wagner v
Ba''d, 7 How 234, Hume v. Beale, 17 Wall. 336, -Marsh
v WAitmore, 21 Wall. 178, Sullivan v Portland & Kennebec Railroad, 94 U. S. 806, Godde&n v .Kimmel, 99 U. S.
201.
Mm. JusTio,

H.ALAN,

having stated the facts as above

reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
The grounds upon which the District Court, sustained the
demurrer to the complaint are not shown by the record otherwise than from the. statement in the opinion of the Supreme
Court of the, Territory -that it was because of laches in bringing suit. The latter court said "It appears that the grantor
of the plaintiff stood by and saw all this property sold, and
had a right to redeem the same in six months after the sale,
that her residence was Maricopa County at the death of her

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

husband, and its continuance will be presumed to be there, the
contrary not having been alleged, that there was no action
brought to set aside the judgment, that from the 8th day of
November, 1883, till the [2] 9th day of June, 1887 - nearly
four years - she saw the .property greatly enhancing in value,
saw it sold time and again, then sells it to the plaintiff, who
now comes into a court of equity and asks a cancellation of
all those sales. If the bill had shown, and. which plaintiff was_
allowed to show, that any distibility existed on the part of anyone having an interest in the property at the time of"sale, we
would grant the prayer of the bill. No such disability being
shown, can we think of allowing the party who has so long
slept upon her rights to divest the present owners of their
,valuable property ?"
The difficulty with this view is that it has no foundation in
the allegations of the complaint. From the mere fact that
Mrs. Bryan's residence at the tune of her husband's death
was in iMaricopa County, where the real estate in- question is
situated, the court below presumed not only that it continued
there, but that she "stood by" for nearly four years, forbearing to exercise her right to redeem, and "saw the property
enhancing in value - saw it sold time and again " - without
asserting any interest in it. No such presumption was justified bV the allegations of the complaint. The case made by
those allegations is that of an administrator, who, having
claims against the estate he represented, which were secured
by mortgage upon real property of which his intestate died
seized, and having in his hands money sufficient to discharge
those claims, yet resorted to the expedient of taking judgment
in his individual name against himself In his fiduciary capacity,
for the amount of the claims and for attorneys' fees, and
caused the property to be sold. And of all those facts - the
defendants and each of them had full
demurrer admits -the
notice when they made their respective purchases. Referring
to the allegation in the complaint, that the administrator, at
the time he sued himself, had in his hands sufficient money to
pay off his claims, the counsel for the defendants suggest that
this might well be, if those moneys had been applied to the

BRYANT v. IkLES.
Opinion of the- Court.

debts in question without providing for the payment of other
debts against the estate, the expenses of administration, or
preferred claims, and that for aught appearing in the complaint, it may have..been the duty of the administrator to apply
the moneys in his hands to other debts and claims. A sufficient answer to this suggestion is,that the allegation in the
complaint upon this point inports a failure of the administrator to use the moneys in his hands to discharge the debts
held by him, when he could properly have so used them.
It is true, as contended, that where the bill shows such
laches upon the part of the plaintiff that a court of equity
ought not to give relief,.the defendant need not interpose a
plea or answer, but may demur upon. the ground of want of
equity apparent on the bill itself. Lansdale v. Smith, 106
U. S. 391, 393, iSjesdel v Henlcz, 120 U. S.377, 387. But no
such case is made by the bill. The limitation prescribed by
the statutes of Arizona for the commencement of an action to
recover real property, br the possession thereof, is five years.
If this statute governs courts of equity as well as courts of law
and such is the plaintiff's contention - the present action is
not barred by limitation. If, as contended by the defendants,
a court of equity may deny relief because of laches in suing,
although the plaintiff .commenced his action within the period
limited by the statute for actions at law, still the granting or
refusing relief, upon that ground, must .depend upon the
special circumstances of each case. Harwood v Railroad Co.,
17 Wall. 78, Brown v County of Buena Vista, 95 U. S. 157,
160, Haywood v.NYationaZ Bank, 96 U. S. 611, 617. The case
made by the complaint in this suit is one of fraud -upon the
part of the administrator, and in that fraud- if the allegations of the complaint are sustained by proof- the defendants
and each of them must be held to have participated. The
circumstances as detailed in the complaint are so peculiar in
their character that a court of equity should be slow in denying relief upon the mere ground of laches in bringing suit.
Other questions arise upon the face of the complaint,
namely, as to whether Mrs. Bryan had such interest in the
property as made her a necessary party to the suit of foreclosure

