OCTOBER TER!V,

1889.

Statement of the Case.

,Tpon this ground, my brother HARLAN and myself are of
opinion that the jpdgment should be reversed.
Mr.JUSTICE GRAY was not present at the argument of this
case and took no part in its decision.

MoMURRAY v. MORAN.
APPEAL FROM TRE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF NEVADA.
No.193.

Argued January 30, 1890. - Decided March 3, 1890.

A railroad company made a mortgage to secure an issue of 3000 bonds of
$1000 each. It contracted with a contractor for the construction of
31 miles of its road and as part consideration therefor agreed to give him
310 of these bonds. Before any further issues were made it agreed with
a banking house in New York, as a part consideration for their acquiring these bonds, that it would only issue bonds to the extent of $10,000
a mile on its constructed road, and on the faith of tis the New York
house bought and paid for the bonds, and the 31 miles of road were constrpcted. Subsequently, and without constructing any additional miles,
it issued 147 more bonds which were mostly used in the settlement of
debts to parties who had notice of the agreement with the New York
nouse. Default having been made in payment of interest a bill in equity
was filed to foreclose the mortgage; Held,
(1) That as to all-persons .acquiring any part of the 147 bonds with
notice of the agreement with the New York house, the 310 bonds
held by .the latter were entitled to priority;
(2) That holders who took them without- notice of it, whether taking
originally from the company, or by purchase from one who took
with'knowledge, 'were entitled to share with the New York house
m'the distribution.

TEm '1Ne'vada and Oregon Railroad Company," a corporation of thte State of Nevada, by its mortgage or deed of trust,
executed April 25, 1881, bargained, sold and conveyed to the
Union Trust Company of New York all of the property, franchises and estate, real and personal, then existing and to be
acquired, including its line of road constructed or to be con-

McMURRAY v. MORAN.
Statement of the Case.

structed or completed, to secure the payment of three thousand bonds of one thousand dollars each, to be issued by the
mortgagor, and made payable on the first day of June, 1930,
at the city of New York, with interest, semi-annually, at the
rate of eight per cent per annum. Each bond contained an
agreement that if there was a continuous default for six
months in the payment of interest, the principal and all
arrearages of interest thereon should, at the option of the
holder, become immediately due and payable.
Of the three thousand bonds authorized to be executed by
the railroad company, only six hundred were issued and certified by the trustee. The appellees, Moran Brothers, became
the holders for value of 310 of the bonds so certified, paying
therefor $248,000. In respect to those bonds, there was such
default in meeting the interest thereon that appellees became
entitled to declare the principal due and payable. And having so declared, the Union Trust Company brought suit m the
court below for the foreclosure of the mortgage or deed of
trust, the sale of the mortgaged property, and the application
of the proceeds of sale in payment of the bonds held by Moran
Brothers, and of such other bonds as were entitled to share in
the proceeds.
The present suit was brought by Moran Brothers against
the appellants as the holders of 14' of the 600 bonds certified
by the trustees. It proceeds upon the theory that as between
the appellees holding the 310 bonds first issued, and the appellants holding the :14:7 subsequently issued, the former were
entitled to priority in the distribution of the proceeds of the
sale of the mortgaged property.,
It appears from the evidence that "The Nevada and Oregon
Railroad Company," a Nevada corporation, entered into a
written contract, of date August 26, 1880, with. one Thomas
Moore, for the construction by him of certain divisions of its
road, whose aggregate length was one hundred and eighty-five
miles. A part of the consideration for Moore's undertaking this
Ivork was the representation of the company, embodied in the
contract, that "f ifty-year eight per.cent first-mortgage bonds,
to the extent only of ton thousand dollars per mile, and capital

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

stock to the extent only of twenty thousand dollars per mile
for the first onehundred and eighty-five miles will be issued,
making a total of eighteen undred and fifty thousand dollars
in first-mortgage bonds, and thirty-seven hundred thousand
dollars, par value in stock, upon the entire one hundred and
eighty-five miles." The contract further provided for the payment to Moore of $100,000 in lawful money, $310,000 in firstmortgage bonds, and $450,000 in the stock of the railroad
company, at par, for the Reno division as far as Beckwith Pass.
The contractor was to have all the first-mortgage bonds as the
work of construction progressed.
This contract was supplemented by another one, executed
December 4, 1880, whereby the time and order of performance
as well as of payments were changed. It provided that tho
Reno division, from Reno to Beckwith Pass, should be first
constructed, that "upon the shipment of 1000 tons of rails
and splices the company should pay to the contractor
$200,000 in cash, and upon arrival of same at Reno $150,000
in first-mortgage bonds and $300,000 in stock, and upon
shipment of balance of rails for the present work $160,000
in first-mortgage bonds and 8150,000 in stock;" that "the
company shall deposit with the trustee in New York, on or
before- January, 10, 1881, $10,000 in cash, and the $450,000.in
stock, and, on or before January 25, 1881, the $310,000 in the
first-mortgage bonds," that this contract should not be "construed as abating or impairing any portion of the- contract of
August 26, 1880 " and that "the entire stock to be issued
upon the line from Reno to the temporary terminus as herein
stated [Beckwith Pass] shall be limited to $600,000, without
reference to any excess in distance over thirty miles, and the
firt-mortgage bonds upon the same to $310,000."
A separate contract was made on the same day with reference to the construction of the road from Beckwith Pass to
the Oregon line.
The company having failed to make payments to Moore, as
it had agreed to do, on account of work done on the IReno
division, another contract was made February 1, 1881, by
which the.company stipulated to deliver to the contractor the

MiMURRAY v. MORAN.
Statement of the Case.

$450,000 of stock and the $310,000 first-mortgage bonds as
soon as the certificates and bonds .could be engrossed and
signed. It was provided that this contract should not impair
the contracts previously made between the parties.
On the 25th of April, 1881, the "Nevada and Oregon Railroad Company," the company first above named, was organized.
It was the sutcessor, and acquired all the rights, franchises,
and property of " The Nevada and Oregon Railroad Company" of 1880, and assumed to meet all the contract obligations,
and to pay all the debts of the old company The mortgage,
heretofore referred to, of April 25, 1881, was executed by the
new company
By contract of date April 26, 1881, the new company
adopted, confirmed, and renewed Moore's contract with the
old company, and, subsequently, May 24, 1881, the coitract
for the construction of the road from Beckwith Pass to the
Oregon line was extended one year.
Before the last two dates, namely, on March 23, 1881, the
appellees, Moran Bros. and Moore, entered into a contract, by
which the former agreed to pay the latter the sum of $248,000, in specified instalments, upon completion, within certain
periods named, of five, ten, twenty-one, twenty-six and thirtyone miles of Reno division against the delivery of the firstmortgage eight per cent bonds of the "Nevada and Oregon
Railroad Company" By that contract Moran Bros. became
entitled to receive the bonds on instalments, as the above
number of miles were constructed.
Subsequent transactions between the parties are so clearly
and succinctly stated m the opinion delivered in this cause by
Judge Sabin, 20 Fed.. Rep. 80, that the following extract is
made from it
"IMoorewent on under these various contracts and graded
32 miles on the first section north from Reno and commenced
grading on the 170 miles running north from Beckwith Pass.
He also laid about 17 miles of track from IReno northerly, and
provided- certain rolling stock and other materials. Moore
became embarrassed, and on about November 16, 1881, abandoned Ins contracts and.left the State. From that time forward

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

the company assumed the management of the road and conducted its future operations as best it could. The company
was in a very embarrassed condition. It was largely in debt
and without money or resources of any kind to meet its liabilities. It had attempted to build and equip a railrmad without
first having provided any adequate means for so doing.
"On the twenty-fifth of March, 1882, Moore, as party of the
first part, the railroad company, defendant, of the second part,
D. W 'Balch, H. J McMurray, A. H. Manning, W F Berry
and 0. A. Bragg, of the third part, and Alvin Burt, as trustee,
of the fourth part, entered into an agreement, the object of
which was to adjust, as therein provided, the then unsettled
business matters between Moore and the railroad company
This contract recognizes the fact that the railroad company
had issued to Moore these 310 first-mortgage bonds, that he
had negotiated them with Moran Bros., complainants in the
second above-entitled suit, that he had been paid for 210 of
said bonds by Moran Bros. and that they held the remaining
of said bonds subject to contract with Moore, to be paid for
as the road was completed. By this contract Moore surrendered his rights in these bonds for the benefit of the railroad
company, which subsequently drew the money due upon them.
Section 11 of this contract is as follows
"' The parties of the second and third part hereby covenant
and agree for themselves and the other stockholders, and .for
the creditors of the party of the first part as follows, viz.
(b) That no second mortgage shall be made, issued, or
recorded upon said railroad or any portion thereof.
"' That the issue of first-mortgage bonds thereon shall be
limited to $10,000 per mile of completed road, or such an
amount that the annual interest charge thereon shall not
exceed $800 per mile of completed road, and also that the issue
of capital stock of said company shall be limited to $20,000
per mile of said railroad.'
"Pursuant to this contract, on the twenty-sixth of April following, Moore and Moran Bros. join in a commnication to
Balch, as president of said railroad company, informing him
of the terms upon which he can, as the road is completed, draw

Xo
tURRAY v. MORAN.
Statement of the Case.

upon complainants for $75,000, the balance due upon these 100
bonds. These funds were so drawn and with them the road
was completed the 31 miles. It should be noted that this
contract of Mgrch 25, 1882, was entered into by Balch as
president of, and on behalf of, said railroad company, pursuant
to a resolution of the board of directors of said company adopted
January 13, 1882, prior to his departure from Reno to New
York for the purpose of endeavoring to effect a settlement of
the business of the corn any And this contract, if not formally ratified by the directors of the company by resolution
adopted to that effect, was actually ratified by the compan.
by its acting upon it, carrying out to some extent, at least, its
provisions, and accepting the benefits arising therefrom, and
especially in drawing and using the balance due upon the 100
bonds paid by Moran Bros. after its execution. Now, all of
these various contracts conclusively show this; that this railroad company, defendant, and its predecessor had repeatedly
contracted with Moore and promised and held out to the public that upon no part of the line of its road should there be
issued more than $10,000 in first-mortgage bonds for each mile
of completed road. It was upon this condition and agreement
that Moran Bros. purchased these bonds. Charles Moran, one
of the complainants, testifies that the railroad company issued
its circulars to that effect, that he saw them, that this limitation was the condition in the purchase of the bonds, that they
would not have advanced $11,000 per mile upon the road. He
is supported in this by the testimony of Moore, Fowler and
Balch, and by every contract in evidence executed either by
the railroad company, defendant, or by its -predecessol, and
subsequently ratified by the Nevada and Oregon Railroad
Company, and this testimony is wholly uncontradicted."
The decree below was accompanied with a finding of facts.
Among the facts so found were the. following
That before and at the time the 310 bonds were sold the
railroad company, in consideration of thei purchase, obligated
itself in writing that it would not issue or sell any more than
ten of said bonids, or $10,000 worth, for each mile -of completed
road, and no more than 310 for or upon the Reno division, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

defendants and each of them having notice of such agreement,
That while these agreements were in force, and after Moran
Bros. had purchased and paid for the 310 bonds now held
by them, the company, by and through its then officers and
trustees, defendant Balch, trustee and president, King, trustee
and secretary, Bragg, Manning and Berry, trustees; M c
Murrav, stockholder; and Deal and Webster, attorneys, issued
and advised; caused and procured to be issued, the bonds
mentioned in the answer, 147 in number, the defendants and
each of them well knowing at the time the terms and conditions of the contracts limiting the issue of bonds, and that
complainants had purchased for value the 310 bonds mentioned
in the bill of complaint,
That the. 147 bonds, and each of them, were procured from
the Union Trust Company of New York by defendant Balch,
under and in pursuance of a resolution of the board of trustees
of the railroad company, adopted by Balch, Bragg, Manning,
Berry and King, acting as such board, and for the purpose
expressed in the resolution, and represented to the Union
Trust Company, of negotiating them for value, and after said
bonds were so procured the board delivered them to the
original holders thereof without payment therefor of any sum
of money whatever,
That, except the 10 bonds issued to the defendants Webster
and Deal, the remaining 137 of the 147 bonds were delivered
for and in consideration of pre8xisting debts, and principally
for debts owing by Moore and not debts owing by the company, and in large part for claims that Balch, McMurray,
Manning, Berry and Bragg had assumed and agreed to pay;
the bonds issued to Webster and Deal having been delivered
in consideration of professional legal services to be rendered
by them as solicitors for the defendants, and not delivered
until after this suit was commenced, and,
That the defendants, who in the answer are alleged to hold
a portion of the 147 bonds, and each of them, received such
bonds and hold the same as security for debts which existed
at and before the time the bonds were acquired by them, and

MoUIRRAY v. MORANT.
Opnion of the Court.

none of such persons are bona #de purchasers of said bonds
for value.
Upon this state of facts it was decreed that the complainants were entitled to have the amount of their bonds, principal
and interest, paid out of the proceeds of the mortgaged premises, and that none of the defendants were entitled to participate in or share such proceeds until after the payment in
full of the principal and interest of the 310 bonds, nor unless
there should be a surplus remaining, and if there should be
such surplus, then the defendants were entitled to participate
m the distribution, each in proportion to the amount of the
bonds held by him.
XAr Horatio C. Zing for appellants. A& T E. -F. -Dealwas
on their brief.
.Mr TeeZer ff. Peckham for appellees.
MR. JusTrOE ]LHARL.L, after stating the above facts, delivered
the opinion of the court.
It appears satisfactorily from the evidence that when appellees purchased the 310 bonds from Moore, the latter had contracts with the railroad company, by which it was restricted
in issuing bonds to $10,000, par value, for each mile of completed road. It was that feature of the several contracts
between the company and Moore that gave value, in the commercial world, to the bonds delivered to him. And the benefit
of that restriction upon the issuing of bonds necessarily passed
to those who purchased them from Moore. The issuing of
bonds in excess of those delivered to Moore, and by him sold,
to Moran Bros., was in palpable violation of- the company's
agreement with him for, as is conceded, the 310 bonds, held
by appellees, represented, on the above basis, all of the completed road. No one receiving the bonds thus improperly
issued, who had notice of the restriction which the company,
by the contracts with Moore, imposed upon its authority,
could be deemed a bonaljde holder for value. The circum.

-OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

stances under which the 147 bonds were obtained by the railroad company from the trustee, the Union Trust Company, are
stated with substantial acduracy, in the finding of facts made
by the court below Thbse who procured those bonds to be
issued by the railroad company had knowledge of the want of
authority in the company to put them on the market to the
prejudice of the rights of the appellees as the holders of the
310 bonds. They were used in payment of the company's
debts and obligations and in discharge of obligations assumed by some of its officers. The purpose for which they
were issued and used, however meritorious in itself, as between the company and those who originally took them,
cannot a4ect the rights of the appellees arising under the
coinpany's contracts with Moore, as the original owner of.
the 310 bonds.
We do not mean to say that the 147 bonds and each of
them are absolutely void for every purpose and by whomsoever held. If the present holders paid value for them without actual notice of the restriction imposed by the company
upon its authority to issue them, they would be deemed bona
ft& holders for value, unaffected. by the agreements between
Moore and the railroad company And they would be deemed
holders for value, even if they took the bonds in payment of,
or as security for, the company's pre~xisting debts. Railroad
Co. v NattonalBank, 102 U. S. 14.
The mortgage of 1881 does not contain any provision that
gives priority to some of the holders of the bohds secured by
it over other bonds of*the same issue. If it did, all holders of
the bonds so secured would be bound to take notice of such
provisions; the mortgage having been duly recorded in Nevada. Nor is notice of the rights secured to Moore, as the
holder of the 310 bonds, to be imputed to the defendants
because the contracts between him and the company, or some
of them, were put upon record. We do not understand that,
by the law of Nevada, such instruments were required to be
recorded, or that the record of them carries with it notice to
all the world of their contents. Gen. Stat. Nev 1883, c. 18,
§§ 2571, 2593. The question, therefore, is one of actifal notice

McMURRAY v. MORAN.
Opinion of the Court.

upon the part of the defendants when they took the bonds
held by them respectively, of the limitation upon the company's authority to issue bonds in excess of the 310. We
thus limit the inquiry as to notice, because it is clear that the
defendants must have known when they took the bonds that
the 310 had been previously issued, and that that amount
more than represented completed road on the basis of $10,000
a mile.
Upon a close scrutiny of the evidence we are of opinion
that the decree below is correct as to the 56 bonds held by
:McMurray, the 28 bonds held by the First National Bank of
Reno or by Bender for Manning & Berry, and the fraction of
a bond held by Bender for the last-named firm. They were
received by MeMurray and Manning & Berry,. respectively,
with actual notice, derived from their relations with the Tailroad company, of its agreement not to issue on the Reno
division more than 310 bonds, or $10,000 of bonds for each
mile of completed road, and with knowledge, when they took
the bonds, that the number thus limited had been previously
issued to the contractor Moore. In respect to the 13 bonds
held by Wright, the like number held by Watkins, and the five
bonds held by Schooling, the evidence shows that the present
holders took them for value from the first holders, without
notice as to the restriction which the company, by its agreements with Moore, had imposed upon its authority to issue
bonds on the Reno division. They were entitled to share in
thp proceeds of the sale of the mortgaged property, in proportion to the amount of bonds held by them respectively, and
upon terms of equality with Moran Bros.
As to the remaining bonds, the appeal must be dismissed,
because the amount, at par value, held by each- of the respeotive appellants owning them, is not sufficient to give this court
-jurisdiction to review the decree below, so far as it affects
them. No one of those claims, principal and interest, exceeded
at the time of the decree below, the sum of five thousand
dollars. Each claim is -distinct and separate from the claims
of all other appellants, and the right of each claimant to be
regarded as a bona flde holder for value depends upon the

