DEPUTRON v. YOUNG.
Syllabus.

DEPUTRON v. YOUNG.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES. FOR THE

DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 1151. Submitted January 6,1890. -Decided

March 10, 1890.

An averment of diverse citizenship by the plaintiff, nfcessai to confer a
e taken as
jurisdiction, not being controverted by the defendant, in
true under the practice in the courts 9f Nebraska.
When the jurisdictional allegations of the plaintiff are not traversed by the
defendant, no question Involving the capacity of the parties to litigate
in the federal courts can be raised before the jury, or treated as within
the issues they are empanelld to determine.
The objection, under section 5, of the act of March 3, 1875, c. 1-7, 18 Stat.
472, that parties to a suit have been improperly or collusively made or
joined for the purpose of creating a case cognizable under the act,
should be taken at the first opportunity; and delay in its presentation
will be considered in examining into the grounds upon which it is
alleged to rest.
A suit cannot properly be dismissed by.a Circuit Court, as. not involving a
controversy within the jurisdiction of the court, unless the facts, when
made to appear on the record, create a legal certainty of that conclusion..
In Nebraska a tax deed, not executed by the county treasurer under his
seal of office, is void.
In Nebraska a tax deed, though void on its face, is sufficient color of title
to support an adverse possession to the property therein described.
The adverse possession which bars a recovery in an action of ejectment
must be continuous, uninterrupted, open, notorious, actual, exclusive
and adverse.
'Where the rightful owner of real estate is in the actual occupancy. of a part
-of his tract, he is in the constructive and legal possession and seisin of
the whole, unless he is disseised by actual occupation and dispossession;
and where the possession is mixed, the legal seisim is according to the
legal title.
A power from an owner of real estate authorizing the donee to make and
execute deeds to convey the real estate to purchasers, as the same may
be sold to such purchasers in tracts by a third party who- acts under a.
contract with the donor of the power, is a naked power to convey as
sales may be made, and a deed made by the donee, to a person Who was
not such a purchaser is a fraud upon the power.
In the case of a naked power not coupled with an interest, every prerequisite,
to the exercise of that power should precede it.
In Nebraska the title of a purchaser at an executive sale depends not alone
VOL. CXXXIV-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.
upon his bid or payment of the purchase money, but upon the confirmation of the sale by the court.
One purchasing at an execution sale in Nebraska submits himself to the
jurisdiction of the court as to matters affecting that sale; and as the
court has power during the term to vacate or modify its own orders or
to rescind a decree affirming the sale, he is concluded by the result of
the proceedings to confirm or innul it.

THis was an action of ejectment brought in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Nebraska, June
14, 1884, by Rowena Young, a citizen of Ohio, against John
C. Deputron, a citizen of Nebraska, to recover certain premises in the petition named. The defendant answered, denying
plaintiff's ownership and right to possession, and setting up
title under a tax deed and purchase in good faith and without
notice for $10,000 paid, being the full value, and ten years'
adverse possession. To this answer a reply, specifically denying its averments, was filed by the plaintiff. At the November term, 1885, of said court, a trial was had, which resulted
in a verdict for the defendant and judgment thereon, which
was set aside on motion of plaintiff, and a new trial awarded.
Iii March, 1886, the cause was tried a second time, and a special verdict of forty-one findings rendered by the jury as set
forth in the margin.'
1 st. That Jane Y. Irwin obtained title to said lands by patent from the
United States December 15, 1862, and on the 9th of August, 1867, conveyed
the same to William F. Young, who, on the 5th of February, 1874, reconveyed the same to Jane Y. Irwin, who, on the 11th day of June. 1884, conveyed said lands to the plaintiff, Rowena Young.
2d. On the 31st of M arch, 1874, Jane Y. Irwin and husband entered into
a contract with N. S. Scott, Samuel Boyd and Milton La Master for the
selling and subdivision of said lands.
3d. And said Scott, Boyd and La Master soon after entered upon said
lands under said contract, and staked out the block corners and street intersections, being engaged m the survey on the lands in controversy and other
lands for a period of about two months, finishing their survey about the
last of May, 1874.
4th. On the 12th of August, 1875, Jane Y. Irwin and her husband executed a power of attorney to William T. Donavan to enable him to make
conveyances to purchasers when sales were made by Scott, Boyd and La
Master, and to facilitate their operations under their contract of March
81st, 1874.

DEPUTRON v. YOUNG.
Statement of the Case.

The defendant excepted to the tenth, seventeenth and mneteenth findings, and moved to set aside each of the same, and
o

5th. We find that there was no assessment of the land in controversy
for taxes in the year 1867, nor was the same borne upon the tax-list of that
year.
6th. We find the tax deed of June 12, 1871, executed by John Cadman,
county treasurer, was not sealed by the county treasurer with his official
seal, nor did the county treasurer then have an official seal.
7th. We find that the county treasurer's deed executed by R. A. Bain,
dated September 15, 1871, was not sealed by the county treasurer, nor did
the county treasurer then have an official seal.
8th. We find the forty acres of land sold by the sheriff to E. J. Curson
and conveyed by deed October 10, 1877, was at that time of the value of
$20,000.
9th. That the confirmation of sale was set aside by the District Court of
Lancaster County, in which it had been made November 3, 1877, before E.
J. Curson had made any conveyance to any one, and was never afterwards
confirmed.
10th. The jury find that lelson C. Brock and his grantees had mixed
possession of the west half of the southwest quarter of section 24, township 10, range 6, in Lancaster County, Nebraska, for ten years prior to
the commencement of this suit, but the jury find that parties claiming
under defendant's grantors held portions of said property and parties holding under plaintiff's grantors held portions of said property, so that said
possession was in controversy and disputed and mixed down to the year
1877.
That up to the year 1876, the said defendants and their grantors
lth.
had mixed possession of the land in dispute, to wit, the northeast quarter
of the southwest quarter of section 24, township 10, range 6, but said land
was open, vacant and unoccupied, except by the city pest-house, and was
used as a common.
12th. The'jury also find that parties held mixed possession of. portions
of the west half of the southwest quarter of section 24, township 10, range
6, during the years 1874 and 1875, who did not attorn to or acknowledge
possession in either the plaintiff or the defendants or any one under or by
whom they claim.
13th. The jury find"that the conveyance from Jane Y. Irwin and John
Irwin by William T. Donavan, attorney-m-fact, to J. P. Lantz was a fraud
upon the power held by said Donavan, and was given by Doniyan and
taken by Lantz with the intention of defrauding Jane Y. Irwin, and that
Samuel W Little had full knowledge of such facts, and procured such conveyance to be made with such knowledge and design.
l4th. That the said deed by Donavan to Lantz and the deed of same by
Lantz to Little were executed at the same time and were parts of one transaction, and that the northeast quarter of the southwest quarter of section

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

for a judgment for the defendant and against the plaintiff
upon the verdict as thus .amended, and the plaintiff filed his
24, township 10, range 6, was on the 25th day of October, 1879, worth
$30,000, snd that the balance of the land then by Donavan conveyed would
exceed P '0,000 in value at that time.
15th. That during the years 1874, 1875 and 1876, parties holding under
the grantors of plaintiff held portions of the west half of the southwest
quarter of section 24, townsip 10, range 6.
16th. We find that all the defendants had full knowledge of the revocation of the power of attorney aforesaid upon the record by Jane Y. Irwin,
and of the facts therein stated prior to any purchase made by them or
either of them.
17th. That one N. C. Brock, through whom the defendant traces one
chain of his title on the 12th day of June, 1871, received Vrom the county
treasurer of Lancaster County Nebraska, a tax deed of that date of the
north half of and 20 acres off the west sidq of the southwest quarter of
the southwest quarter of section 24,, township 10, range 6 east, in Lancaster
County, Nebraska, the premises in controversy being in the northeast quarter of the southwest quarter aforesaid, which tax deed pur~prted to be
issued for the taxes assessed against the above-described pajrejs of land,
respectively, for the year 1867, which tax deed was on the 13th day of
June; 1871, recorded in the county clerk's office of Lancaster County,
Nebraska.
18th. That on the 15th day of December, 1871, the county treasurer of
.Lancaster County Nebraska, delivered to said Nelson C. Brock a second
tax deed of that date covering the northeast quarter of the southwest quarter of section 24, township 10, range 6 east, in Lancaster County, Nebraska,
including the property in dispute, which deed was issued for the tax of the
year 1868, and which tax deed was on the 18th day of December, 1871, recorded in the county clerk's office of Lancaster County, Nebraska.
19th. That on the 18th day of December, 1871, said Nelson C. Brock
made, executed and dellver& to one Charles T. Boggs a lease in writing of
that date of the north half of and the southwest quarter of the southwest
quarter of section 24, township 10, rang 6 east, in Lancaster County, Nebraska, for the term of two years from that date, which lease contained a
leave or license to the lessee to remove all buildings placed upon said premises by him on or before the termination of said lease, which said lease was
recorded in the county clerk's office of Lancaster County, Nebraska, on the
2d day of January, 1872.
20th.- That on the 18th day of December, 1873, the said Nelson C. Brock
made, executed and delivered to said Charles T. Boggs a second lease in
writing of that dati tf the -north half and the southwest quarter of the
southwest quarter of section 24, township 10, range 6 east, in Lancaster
County Nebraska, for the term of two years from that date, which said lease
6ontained a inilar provision permitting the lessee to remove all buildings

DEPUTROI

"v. YOUING.

Statement of the Case.

motion for judgment on the verdict according to the prayer of
the petition. On the 10th day of May, 1886, these motions
and improvements by him erected or permitted to be erected on said premises off from the same at any time before the expiration of the said term
therein granted, which lease was on the 5th day of.January, 1874, recorded
in the county clerk's office of Lancaster County,.Nebraska.
21st. That in the month of December, 1871, the said Charles T. Boggs,
claiming title under the said lease first aforesaid, entered into the mixed
possession of the said premises by assuming contrql and ownership over
the same, and by collecting rents from squatters and persons then located
upon said premises, and subleased other portions of said premises, and continued to exercise mixed possession of said premises down to the time he
yielded his mixed possession of the same to Samuel-W Little, and that he
paid the rent to N. C. Brock for the said premises during the terms of the
two leases above mentioned.
22d. That at the expiration of his term under said leases he yielded his
mixed possession of the said premises to Samuel W Little.
23d. That on the 18th day of May, 1874, said Nelson C. Brock and his
wife, by their deed of quit-claim, conveyed all the said premises, the north
half of the southwest quarter and the southwest quarter of the southwest
quarter of section 24, township 10, range 6 east, to Samuel W Little,
winch deed was duly xecorded in the county clerk's office of Lancaster
County, Nebraska, on the 26th day of May, 1874.
24th. That in or about the month of May, 1873, Charles T. Boggs subleased the north half of the southwest quarter of section 24, township 10,
range 6 east, to one D. A. Gilbert, who, on or about that date, entered upon
the mixed possession of the same and erected a ranch for cows, or milk
ranch, on the northwest quarter of said quarter section, all the said north
half of said southwest quarter being at the time he entered therein wholly
vacant and unoccupied lands, and that he continued under said lease in the
mined possession and occupation of the same until in or about the year 1878,
when he moved off his cattle ranch and surrendered his mixed possession of
the same at the instance of S. W Little, having during that period attorned.
and paid rent to Charles T. Boggs.
25th. That in the year 1876 Samuel W Little began breaking up and
actually improving the northeast quarter of said quarter section and erected
windmills and placed other valuable improvements thereon, planted trees and
shrubbery and set out hedges and other fences, and thence, until he delivered
his mixed possession of the said property to his several grantees,-had the
nixed possession of the said premises, said northeast quarter of the southwest quarter of section 24, township 10, range 6 east.
26th. That on the 19th day of May, 1877, in the District Court of Lancaster County, in the State of Nebraska at the April term of the said court,
in a certain action therein pending, wherein Milo H. Sessions was plaintiff
*and John Irwin and Jane Y. Irwin were defendants, a judgment was ob-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

coming on to be heard, were submitted to the court on briefs
to be filed within sixty days, and on the 24th day of June,
tamed in the said action in favor of the said M. H. Sessions and against
said John Irwin and Jane Y. Irwin by the consideration of said court,
wherein it was considered by said court that the said plaintiff therein should
recover from and against the said defendants, John Irwin and Jane Y.
Irwin, the principal sum of $350, besides costs therein, taxed at the sum of
$41.88, and for which said sums execution was awarded out of the said
court; that thereafter execution was issued upon said judgment against the
said John Irwin and Jane Y. Irwin, and the same coming to the hands of
the sheriff of the said county for want of goods and chattels whereon to
levy the said writ, he seized and caused to be appraised, advertised and sold
as the property of thesaid Jane Y. Irwin the northeast quarter of the southwest quarter of section 24, township 10, range 6, to one E. J. Curson for
the sum of $30; that thereafter he made due return of his said sale unto
the said District Court; and afterwards, on the 2d day of October, 1877, the
following proceedings were had in the said court, to wit. "31. H. ,essions
against John Irwin and Jane Y Irwin. This case comes on upon motion
of plaintiff for confirmation of sale heretofore had in this case, and it is
hereby ordered by the court that cause be shown by Tuesday next; October
9th, why sale should not be confirmed."
That afterwards, on the 10th day of October, 1877 that being the 9th
day of the October, 1877 term of said court, the following proceedings
were had in said action therein. "lilo H. Sesswns v. John Irwin and Jane
Y. Irwin. This case comes on upon the motion of plaintiff for confirmation
of sale heretofore had under former order of this court, and the court,
upon a careful examination of the proceedings thereof,' finds that the same
have been had in all respects in conformity to law and the orders of tins
court. It is ordered that the said proceedings and sale be, and they are
hereby, approved and confirmed, and it is further ordered by the court
that the said sheriff convey to the purchaser by deed in fee simple the lands
and tenements so sold." That afterwards and on the 10th day of October,
1877 pursuant to the foregoing proceedings, Sam. McClay sheriff of said
county, made, executed and delivered to said E. J. Curson, purchaser, a
sheriff's deed of conveyance of the said premises, the northeast quarter of
the southwest quarter of section 24, township 10, range 6 east, in Lancaster
County, Nebraska, which deed was by the said E. J. Curson filed and recordedir the county clerk's office of Lancaster County, Nebraska, on the
10th day of October, 1877 ati5 o'clock, P.m.
27th. That on the 9th day~of November, 1877 said Elijan J. Curson and
Anna M. Curson, his wife, by Zeed of general warranty and for the consideration of the sum of $30, expressed to be in hand paid, granted, bargained,
sold and conveyed the said premises, the. northeast quarter of the southwest quarter' of section 24, in township 10, range 6 east, to Samuel W
'Uttle; which deed of conveyance was, on the 26th day of November, 1877,

DEPUTRON v. YOUNG.
Statement of the Case.

1886, the court entered an. order, by agreement of the parties,
that the time to settle and sign a bill of exceptions be, and the
fied and recorded in the county clerk's offiee of Lancaster County, Nebraska.
28th. On the 12th of August, 1875, Jane Y. Irwin and her husband executed a power of attorney to William T. Donavan to enable him to make
conveyances to purchasers when sales were made by Scott, Boyd and La
Master, and to facilitate their operations under their contract of March
31st, 1874.
29th. That on the 25th day of October, 1879; the said Jane Y. Irwin and
John Irwin, by W T. Donavan, their attorney-in-fact, for the purported
consideration, as expressed upon the face of said deed, of $1000, made,
executed and delivered to one John P. Lantz their warranty deed conveying
the northeast quarter of the southwest quarter of section 21, township 10,
range 6 east, and all that portion of the west half of the said southwest
quater of section 24, township 10, range 6 east, lying north of the centre
line of R Street, in the city of Lincoln, extended east through said lands;
and also the following-described parcels of land, situated in the, southwest
quarter of said southwest quarter of sectiuo 24, township 10, range 6, aforesaid. Commencing at the southwest corner of said section 24, thence running east 520 feet; thence north 460 feet; thence west 520 feet; thence
south 460 feet to the place of beginning; and also commencing at a point
460 feet east of the southeast corner of block No. 38, in the city of Lincoln,
and 470 feet north of the south line of 0 Street, in said city of Lincoln;
thence running east 760 feet; thence north 400 feet; thence west 760 feet;
thence south 400 feet, to the place of beginning; which said deed was recorded in the county clerk's office of Lancaster County, Nebraska, on the
25th day of October, 1879, at 4 o'clock and 25 minutes P.r.
30th. That on the 25th day of October, 1879, said John P. Lantz and
Hannah Lantz, his wife, by their deed of general warranty and for the
consideration of $1000; as expressed in said deed, paid by Samuel W Little
to said John P. Lantz, conveyed the property in the last finding above described to the said Samuel W Little; which deed was, on the 25th day of
October, 1879, at 4 o'clock and 30 minutes P.m., recorded in the county
clerk's office of Lancaster County, Nebraska.
31st. That neither Jane Y. Irwin nor John Irwin, nor any one for them,
ever paid any taxes on any portion, of the north half and the southwest
quarter of the southwest quarter of section 24, township 10, range 6 east.
32d. That Neson C. Brock and Samuel W Little and their respective
grantees of any property in dispute herein have paid all taxes assessed
against the said property since the entry thereof to the year 1884, under
claim of title to said premises.
33d. That on the 9th day of August, 1867, John Irw-n and Jane Y. Irwin,
by their deed of general warranty, conveyed to one William P. Young the
north half of the southwest quarter and the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of section 24, township 10, range 6 east, for the purported.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

same was thereby, extended to the second Monday in November following. The record contains no such bill of exceptions.
consideration expressed on the face of the said deed of $490 which said
deed was filed and recorded in the county clerk's office of Lancaster County,
Nebraska, on the 10th day of August, 1867.
34th. That on the 9th day of January 1875, said Samuel W Little, by a
deed of quit-claim, pursuant to an arrangement made between Jane Y Irwin
and one George Smith and said Samuel W Little, made, executed and delivered, for the consideration of $100, a part of the southwest quarter of
the southwest quarter of section 24, township 10, range 6 east; that said
S. W Little had consented to the entry of said George Smith upon the said
parcel of land under the contract for the purchase of the same from Messrs.
Scott, Boyd and La Master.
35th. That in the year 1873 one Hickman entered upon the northeast
quarter of the south.vest quarter of section 24, townsip 10, range 6 east,
under a lease from Charles T Boggs, and erected thereon stables for a milk
ranch and paid rent thereon for said premises at the rate of $12 per annum,
and continued to occupy the said premises for such purposes and for feeding and herding his stock thereon for a period of about two years.
36th. That from May 31, 1874, continuously down to the time of the
commencement of this suit, June 14, 1884, Charles T. Boggs and Samuel NV
Little and his and their lessees and grantees, under claim of title thereto,
held mixed possession of all of the north half of the southwest quarter of
section 24, township 10, range 6 east, and that no other person ioccupied
the same or entered thereon under claim of title to any part thereof.
37th. That on the 25th day of September, 1883, Samuel IV Little and
Mary D. Little, by their deed of general warranty and for the consideration
of the sum of $I,0,500, sold and conveyed to the defendant, John C. Deputron, all that part of the northeast quarter of the southwest quarter of section 24, township 10, range 6 east, described as follows, and being the
premises in dispute. Be innmgat a point in the centre of R Street, in said
city, 150 feet east of the east line of 17th Street, thence east along the
centre of R Street 600 feet to the centre of 19th Street, thence north, at
right angles with R Street, 1400 feet; thence west, parallel with R Street,
750 feet, to the east line of 17th Street extended north through R Street;
thence south along said east line of 17th Street 790 feet, thence east, parallel with R Street, 94 feet, thence south, parallel with 17th Street, 247 feet;
thence east, parallel with R Street, 38 feet; thence south, parallel with 17th
Street, 163 feet, thence east along Leighton's north line 18 feet, thence
south along Leighton's line 200 feet to the place of beginning, containing
22.15 acres of land, also part of the said northeast quarter of the southwest
quarter of section 24, township 10, range 6 cast, described as follows For
a starting point begin at a point 400 feet east of Grand Avenue and 200 feet
north of R Street, at C. M. Leighton's northwest corner, running thence
north 410 feet; thence east 94 feet; thence south 247 feet, thence east

DEPUTRON
1v,

YOUI1..

Statement of the Case.

On the 9th day. of November, 18871, Deputrou filed his petition,.alleging that :Ro iena Young was not the real party in
interest, and that the title of the property in controversy was
collusively and fraudulently transferred to 'her for the sole
purpose of vesting apparent jurisdiction in ihe, federal court,
that the'case did not really andsubstantially involve a dispute
or controversy properly within its jurisdiction , and that Rowena Young had been improperly and collusively made a;plantiff for the purpose of areating a case cognizable under the
laws of* the United. States, and pr]aymg that the cause be
dismissed, to which the plaintiff answered; denying any fraud
and collusion, and averring that she was.the real party interested. -On the 16th day of November, 1888, the following
order was entered
" This cause coming on for hqaring on the petition and
application of the .defendant to dismiss for want of jurisdiction, was tried by the-court, Messrs. Hall and Webster appearing for the-plaintiff, and Messrs. Lamb, Ricketts, and Wilson
and Harwood, Ames and Kelly for the 'defendant, whereupon, after hearing the evidence and argument of counsel, and
being fully. advised in the premises, it is. now, on tls day,
88 feet; thence south 163 feet; thence west along Leighton's north line to
the place of beginning, the north and south limits to be parallel with Grand
Avenue and the east and west limits to be parallel with R Street; which said
deed was recorded on the 6th day of September, 1883, in the county clerk's
office of Lancaster County, Nebraska.
38th. That said Samuel W.Little delivered to the said John C. Deputron
the mixed possession of the said premises at the date of the execution of
the said deed, and that the said John C. Deputron thence and hitherto has
lield the mixed possession of the same.
.39th. That the value of the said premises at the present time is the'sum.
of forty thousand dollars.
40th. We find that John C. Deputron, defendant, is a brother-in-law of
S. W Little, his grantor, and that there is no proof of any consideration
paid by Deputron to Little for such conveyance.
41st. That the value of the land claimed by John C. Deputron, defendant, being 22.1 acres was worth (40,000) forty thousand dollars.
January 29, 1875, S. W Little was holding said premises as purchaser at
tax sale under certificate of purchase May 26, 1874, for tax of 1872.
If the court is of the opinion that on these facts the plaintiff is entitled
'to possession of the property in dispute, then wefind for the plaintiff.

OCTOBER TERMJf, 1889.
Opmnon of the Court.

ordered and adjudged by the court that said petition and application be, and the same are hereby, denied, to which ruling
and order of the court, said defendant, by his attorneys, then
and there duly excepted."
An opinion on the merits was given by the circuit judge,
December 11, 1888, 37 Fed. Rep. 46, and, thereupon, the motion of the defendant for judgment was overruled, the motion
of the plaintiff for judgment sustained, and judgment entered
that the plaintiff recover from the defendant the real property
described in the petition and the costs of the action. A bill of
exceptions containing the petitions, answers and proceedings,
and evidence adduced upon the question of jurisdiction, was
signed and filed in due time. The pending writ of error was
then sued out from this court.
Mr Walter J Lamb, _Mr Arnott C. Ricketts and Mr HYenry
H. Wilson for plaintiff in error.
_ir John F Dillon, Mr Samuel Shellabarger,Mr R. S.
H~all and Mr Jose~p 1R. Webster for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
It is contended that the Circuit Court erred in entering
judgment on the special verdict because the citizenship of the
parties was not found by the jury But -that fact stood admitted on the record. The plaintiff averred in her petition
that she was "a citizen and resident of the State of Ohio," and
that the defendant was "a citizen and resident of the State of
Nebraska." The answer set up three defences. (1) An affirmative claim of title under a tax deed, (2) Ten years' adverse
possession, (3) "And this defendant, further answering, denies
that the said plaintiff is the owner of the premises described
in her petition, and this defendant also denies that the plaintiff is entitled to the possession of the said premises, and prays
to be hence dismissed with his costs, to be taxed." The averment of diverse citizenship was not controverted by the answer,

DEPUTRON v. YOUNG.
Opinon of the Court.

and as the petition would have been insufficient without that
allegation, the averment must be taken as true under the practice in the courts of record in lebraska. Neb. Code Civ
Proc. ยง 134, 135, Comp. Stat. 1885, p. 645.
Clearly, .where the jurisdictional allegation is not traversed,
no question involving the capacity of the parties in the cause
to litigate in the Circuit Court can be raised before the jury,
1aib'oadCo. v. Qugley, 21 How 202, 214, or treated as within
the issues they might be .mpanelled to determine: The Circuit
Court properly proceeded to judgment, although the special
verdict contained no finding upon this point.
After the case had been twice tried on its merits, and stood
on the special verdict upon motions by the parties for judgment in their favor respectively, the defendant assailed the
jurisdiction of the court by petition, upon the ground that the
title bad been placed in the plaintiff collusively and with .the
view of enabling suit to be brought in the United States
Court, when in fact the plaintiff did not own the property and
had accepted the title only for the collusive purpose aforesaid.
Prior to the passage of 'the act of 1875, such a question could
only be raised by a plea in abatement in the nature of a plea
to the jurisdiction, but the fifth section of that act provided
that if "it shall appear to the satisfaction of said Circuit Court
at any time after such suit has been brought that such suit
does not really and substantially involve a dispute or coitroversy properly within the jurisdiction of said Circuit Court, or
that the parties to said suit have been improperly orcollusively
made or joined, either as plaintiffs or defendants, for the purpose of creating a case cognizable under this act, the sad
Circuit Court shall proceed no further therein, but shall dismiss the suit, but its order dismissing the cause shall be r
viewable by the Supreme.Court on writ of error or appeal, as\
the case may be." 18 Stat. 472. The application here was
made more than a year and a half after the second trial, and
although the petitioner avers that he "did not have knowledge
of the above facts before the trial of this cause," we remark in
passing that such an objection ought to be raised at the first
opportunity, and delay in its presentation should be consid-

OUTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

ered in examining into the grounds upon which it is alleged to
rest.
The issue of fact raised upon this petition was tried by the
Circuit Court without a jury, and the application denied.
No question of law was reserved by the defendant during the
hearing, but he entered an exception to the final order, and
now asks us'to hold that it was the duty of the Circuit Court
to dismiss the case, blcause collusively brought. We do not
care to enter upon a discussion as to how far in an action at
law, where there are no special findings upon an issue of -fact
such as this, a party has the right to demand a review of the
final order of the Circuit Court on the merits, as, upon the
evidence in this record, we are content with the conclusion
arrived at. In Barry v fdmunds, 116 U S. 550, it was held
that a suit cannot properly be dismissed by a Circuit Court
of the United States, as not involving a controversy within
the jurisdiction of the court, unless the facts when made to
appear on .the record create a legal certainty of that conclusion. "Nothing less than this," said Mr. Justice Matthews,
"is meant by the statute when it provides that the failure of
its jurisdiction, on this account, ' shall appear to the satisfaction of said Circuit Court.'"
The question was whether the conveyance by Jane Y Irwin
to Rowena Young was colorable merely The plaintiff testified positively that she was the real owner of the land, and
that it was conveyed to her by her sister, Mrs. Irwin, partly
in consideration of what Mrs. Irwin owed her, and partly
because she herself had a share in it; that "the land was
entered with money coming out of my father's estate belonging in part to me, being the joint fund of Jane and myself."
And her testimony is corroborated by that of her brother,
William P Young.
We have carefully examined the evidence and especially the
matters urged as constituting badges of colorable transfer,
but do not find any substantial ground for overthrowing the
deed, or questioning the passing of the title. Such conflict
as exists has been determined by the Circuit Court, and it
would subserve no useful purpose to restate the circumstances

DEPUTRON v. YOUNG.
Opinon of the Court.

in detail, as we think the facts fell far-short
of establishing
U

petitioner's contention.
Upon the rendition of the special verdict the defendant
moved to set aside the 10th, 17th and 19th findings as not supported by the evidence, and for judgment upon the verdict as
so amended, but the court overruled the motion, and entered
judgment for the plaintiff upon the special verdict as returned.
We cannot review the action of the court in reference to -the
findings objected to, and, no exceptions having been saved, are
restricted to the question -whether there was error in giving
judgment for the plaintiff upon the facts as found.
From the first finding it appears that Jane Y Irwin "obtained title to said lands by patent from the United States
December 15, 1862, and on the 9th of August, 1867, conveyed
the same to William 11 Young, who, on the 5th of February;
18741, reconveyed the same to Jane Y Irwin, who, on the 11th
day of June, 1884, conveyed said lands to the plaintiff, Rowena Young." This made out the title of defendant in error,
and to prevent her recovery the plaintiff in error was obliged
to sustain one or more of his affirmative defences, in respect
to which he had the burden of proof.
These defences were Claim under two tax deeds, coupled
with ten years' adverse possession, conveyance by Jane Y
Irwin, by William T. Donavan as her attorney-in-fact, sheriff's
deed on execution sale to Curson, deed of Curson to Little, and
of Little to plaintiff in error.
"As to the tax deeds, it was found that one was issued upon
a sale made for the taxes of a year when the land was not
assessed for taxes, and that neither of them was "sealed by
the county treasurer with his official seal, nor did the county
treasurer then have an official seal." The Circuit Court held
that under the decisions of the Supreme Court of Nebraska,
these tax deeds were void for want of the seal, and cited many
decisions of that court to that effect. In Gue v Jones, 25 Nebraska, 634-, 631, January term, 1889, the court say "At the
trial the defendant produced a tax deed covering the premises in question, issued to Smith by the treasurer of Douglas
County, August 4, 1865, for the taxes of 1862. This deed

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opmion of the Court.

was objected to by the plaintiff on several grounds, among
others, that it was not executed urder the official seal of the
treasurer. The act of 1861, under which the deed was executed, provides, at section 60, ' that such conveyance shall be
executed by the county treasurer, under his hand and seal,'
then follows the statutory form of such deed, concluding with
the words of attestation, ' In testimony whereof the said
treasurer of said county has hereunto set his hand and seal,
on the date and year aforesaid. [Seal.]' The statute has
been substantially carried forward throughout all the changes
of the revenue laws to the present day Under its provisions
it has been held by this court in cases too numerous for citation, of which several are cited by counsel for defendant in
error, that a tax deed not executed by the treasurer under kis

seal of ofice ts vowl. It will not be expected that this line of
decision can be departed from now The deed introduced in
the case at bar, if legal and proper in all other respects, as to
which we pass no opinion, is open to the fatal objection that
it does not purport to have been executed by the county treasurer under his seal of office."
No title, therefore, was transmitted by these deeds, but a
tax deed, though void upon its face, is sufficient color of title
in Nebraska to support an adverse possession to the property
therein described, Gatling v Lane, 17 Nebraska, 7, -whilea
tax certificate is not. 1eoKezghan v llopkzns, 14 Nebraska,
361, 364. The possession, however, which bars a recovery,
must be continuous, uninterrupted, open, notorious, actual,
exclusive and adverse. Arm-strong v Morrill, 14 Wall. 120.
145. From the findings it appears that Little was holding in
January, 1875, which was within ten years prior to the cornmencement of this suit, under a tax certificate, that up to
the year'1876 the possession of the land in dispute was "mixed,"
but it "was open, vaca-nt and unoccupied except by the cfty
pest-house, and was used as a common;" that some portions
of the whole tract were in possession of squatters, some portions in possession of parties holding under Mrs. Irwin, and a
part in the possession of the grantee in the tax deeds or under
him, and the jury find the possession of the premises deliv-

DEPUTROI

v. YOUNG.

Opinion of the Court.

ered to the defendant and held by him to have been only a
mixed possession. Where the rightful owner is in the actual
occupancy of a part of his tract, he is in the constructive and
legal possession and seisin of the whole, unless he is -disseised
by actual oc-upation and dispossession, and where the possession is mixed, the legal seisin is according to the legal title,
so that in the case at bar there could be no constructive possession on the part of the defendant or his grantors, even if
that might exist if he had had actual possession of a part, and
no one had been in possession of the remainder. Hunnscutt v
Peyton, 102 U. S. 333, 368, Barrv Gratz, 4 Wheat. 213, 223.
NVothing is clearer upon the face of this record than that the
jury refused to find the possession relied on by defendant to
have been actual, undisputed, exclusive, open, notorious and
adverse, but found, on the contrary, that the possession was
'mixed. The judgment cannot be reversed on the ground of
error in this regard.
The plaintiff in error also asserted title under a conveyance
by iDonavan as her attorney-m-fact. The 2d, 3d, 4th, 13th,
14th, 16th, 28th, 29th, 30th, 37th and 40th findings present
the facts on this branch of the case, and establish that on the
31st day of March, 1874, Jane Y Irwin entered into a contract with Scott, Boyd and La Master for the subdivision
and sale of this and other land, and that they entered upon,
platted and surveyed it by the last of May, 1875, that. (4th
and 28th,) "on the 12th of August, 1875, Jane Y Irwin and
her husband executed a power of attorney to William T.
Donavan, to enable him to make conveyances to purchasers
when sales were made by Scott, Boyd and La Master, and to
facilitate their operations under their contract of March 31,
1874,," that on the 25th day of October, 1879, a deed was
executed by Donavan, as attorney-in-fact, for tracts which
included that in dispute, to one Lantz, for "the purported
consideration, as expressed upon the face of said deed, of
$1000," and on the same .day Lantz, "for the consideration
of $1000, as expressed in said deed, paid by Samuel W Little
to said John P Lantz," conveyed the same to Little, that
these deeds were parts of one transaction, and the entire

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

property conveyed was worth over $100,000, that the conveyance by Donavan to Lantz "was a fraud upon the power
held by said Donavan, and was given by Donavan and taken
by Lantz with the intention of defrauding Jane Y Irwin,
and that Samuel W Little had full knowledge .of such fact,
and procured such conveyance to be made with such knowledge and design," that the defendant had full knowledge
of the revocation of the power of attorney aforesaid upon
the record by Jane Y Irwin and of the facts therein stated
prior to any purchase by him, that Little and wife, for the
recited consideration of $10,500, sold and conveyed to Deputron, who was a brother-in-law of Little, "and nat there is
no proof of any consideration paid by Deputron to Little for
such conveyance." It is not pretended that the deed to Lantz
was made to carry out or effectuate any sale of the property
which had been made by Scott, Boyd and La Master, and
the findings show that it was made in fraud of the power of
attorney and with the intention of defrauding Jane Y Irwin.
We cannot agree with the counsel for plaintiff in error that
it is to be inferred that the power to Donavan was a power
to convey generally and at discretion. We do not understand
the language of the fourth and twenty-eighth findings, which
are identical, as merely indicating the purpose for which the
power of attorney was given, but regard it as expressing the
limitations of the power. It was the scope of the power that
the jury must have had in mind in stating that it was executed to enable Donavan to make conveyances to purchasers
"when sales were made by Scott, B~oyd and La Master, and
to facilitate their operations under their contract of M arch
31st, 1874." We think it sufficiently clear that it was only
a naked :power to convey wnen a sale had been made. The
deed by Donavan was a fraud upon the power, because it was
in violation of the authority thereby vested. The rule is well
settled that "in the case of a naked power, not coupled with
an interest, the law requires that every prerequisite to the
exercise of that power should precede it. The party who
sets up a title must furnish the evidence necessary to support
it.

If the validity of a deed depends on an act ?n pasts, the

DEPUTRO" v. YOUNG.
Opmion"of the Court.

party claiming under it isas much bound to prove the performance of the act as he would be bound to prove any
matter of record on which the validity of the deed might
depend." WIlicms v Peyton's .eessee,4 Wheat. 77, Ransomn
v. Filliams,2 Wall. 313, 319. It behooved the plaintiff in
error to have the power made part of the findings, if the
conclusion we have reached as to its contents was open to
dispute, and not to have accepted the fourth and twentyeighth findings without objection. In the language used in
Williams v Peytw's Lessee, the power was a link in his
chain which was essential to its continuity, and which it was
incumbent on him to preserve. The findings in reference to
this power not only do not justify the contention of plaintiff
in error, but are inconsistent with it, for the Donavan deed
was not simply found fraudulent in fact, but"' a fraud upon
the power." This, coupled with the finding that the power
was to enable Donavan to convey when sales were made by
Scott, Boyd and La Master, shows that Donavan's act, when
compared with the words of the power, was not warranted
by the terms used. Nor under those findings is there any
ground for the assumption that Deputron believed that Scott,
Boyd and La Master had made sale of the property to Lantz
or Little.
Even if the power had been general the conveyance was
found fraudulent, and no estoppel arises in favor of plaintiff
in error in the absence of findings that he paid value without
notice.
It is impossible to conclude that the Circuit Court erred in
putting aside thins attempt to bolster up the title by the deed
of Donavan.
In addition to the Donavan deed and the tax deeds, it is
urged on behalf of the plaintiff in error that he made out title
under a sale on execution. One Sessions on Mav 19, 1877,
recovered a;judgment in the District Court of .*Lancaster
County, Nebraska, against Jane Y Irwm, upon which execution was issued and levied on forty acres, of which the premises in controversy were a part, and sale made to one Curson
for $30, which sale was confirmed October 10, 1877, and a
VOL. cxxmv-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

deed of the forty acres made by the sheriff and recorded on
the same day, the land being worth at that time $20,000.
The order confirming the sale was set aside by the court
November 3, 1877, before Curson "had made any conveyance
to any one, and was never afterwards confirmed." On the
9th of November, 1877, Curson conveyed this land for $30 to
S. W little, which deed was recorded on the 26th day of
November.
The opinion of the Circuit Court upon this point is as
follows "It is the settled law of Nebraska that the title of
a purchaser at an execution sale depends not alone upon his
bid or payment of the purchase money, but upon the confirmation oi the sale, also that one purchasing at an execution sale
submits himself to the jurisdiction of the court as to matters
affecting that sale, and that a court has power during the term
to vacate or modify its own orders or to rescind decrees.
Phillips v Dawley, 1 Nebraska, 320, Bank v Green, 10
Nebraska, 134, Volland v Wilcox, 17 Nebraska, 50, Gregory
v Tingley, 18 Nebraska, 318, 322. It follows from these
facts and decisions that the sale, though temporarily confirmed, was finally set aside, and that no rights of a third
party accrued during the time that the sale was apparently
confirmed. Hence this chain of title presented by defendants
must fail." We are entirely satisfied that this expresses the
law on the subject in the State of Nebraska. In State Bank
v Green, 10 Nebraska, 130, 134, the Supreme Court of Nebraska says "Under. our law governing sales of real property
on execution the title of the purchaser depends entirely upon
the sale being finally confirmed by the court under whose process it was made, and until this is done the rights of the
execution debtor are not certainly divested." The final order
confirming is subject to review as the confirmation of a sale in
equity is, Parratv Neligh, 7 Nebraska, 456, 459, and the
purchaser submitts to the jurisdiction of the court as to all
matters connected with such sale or relating to him in the
-haracter -of purchaser. This order of confirmation was va-ated before there was any change in tue relation of the parties,
ind the sheriff's deed fell with it. Counsel for plaintiff in

DEPUTRON v. YOUNG
Opinion of the Court.

error refers to section 508 of the Civil Code, which reads as
follows "If any judgment or judgments, in satisfaction of
which any lands or tenements are sold, shall at any time
thereafter be reversed; such reversal shall not defeat or affect
the title of the purchaser or purchasers, but, in such case,
restitution shall be made by the judgment creditor, of the
moneys for which such lands or tenements were sold, with
Comp. Stat. 1885,
law'ful interest from the day of sale."
p. 695. This section relates to the judgment, as to which the
purchaser is not affected by irregularity or error, and to which
he is not a party, but we are considering- the order. of confirmation, which may be reviewed on appeal, Parratv Neligh,
ub, sup., though the merits of the original case are not open to
refxammation. Bank of L'ncoln v Scofteld, 9 Nebraska, 499.
The cases cited by the circuit judge show that the purchaser can move for confirmation or to set the sale'oaside, and
can appeal from the order ffereon ; that he may be compelled
to perform his bid, and that he is concluded by the result-of the
proceedings to confirm or annul the same. And see Taulett
v. Peabo4, 3 Nebraska, 196, 197, S#ann. v Jones, 4 C. E.
Green (19 N. J Eq.) 251, _Requa v .Rea, 2 Paige, 339, Barker
v. Richardson.,41 N. J Eq. (14 Stewart) 656. That such is the
rule m Nebraska is quite., convincingly shown by the case of
Sesszons v rwtn, 8 Nebraska, 5, which was an appealby Curson
from the order setting aside the confirmation and the sale under
consideration here, which order was, however, affirmed. If
Sessions, the judgment creditor, received $30 from Cursofi,
respecting which there is no finding, he became Curson's
debtor to that amount, and, as argued for defendant in error,
Carson might -have a right to be compensated out of the
moneys collected upon-the judgment, but the operation of the
order s6tting aside the confirmation was to defeat -any claim
of title on the part of Curson or his grantee. This accords
with, the decisions and settled :practice of the state courts in
reference to sales under process issuing out of them.
Finally, it is said that the judgment embraces. property not
described in the petition. The description was "the west half
of the northeast quarter of the southwest quarter of section
twenty-four."

