OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Title of the Cause.

ment prior to execution was in the county jail. By the new,
in the penitentiary By the old, the sheriff was the hangman.
By the new, the warden. Under the old, no one had a right
of access to the condemned except his counsel, though the
sheriff might, in his discretion, permit any one to see him.
By the new, his attendants, counsel, physician, spiritual adviser and members of his family have a right of access, and no
one else is permitted to see him. Under the old, his confinement might be absolutely solitary, at the discretion of the
sheriff, with but a single interruption. Under the new, access
is given to hun as a matter of right, to all who ought to be
permitted td see him. True, access is subject to prison regulations, so, in the jail, the single authorized access of counsel
was subject to jail regulations. It is not to be assumed that
either regulations would be unreasonable, or operate to prevent access at any proper time. Surely, when all who ought
to see the condemned have a right of access, subject to the
regulations of the prison, it seems a misnomer to call this
"solitary confinement," in the harsh sense in which this phrase
is sometimes used. All that is meant is, that a condemned
murderer shall not be permitted to hold anything like a public
reception-; and that a gaping crowd shall be excluded from
his presence. Again, by the old law, the sheriff fixes the hour
within a prescribed day By the new, the warden fixes the
hour and day within a named week. And. these are all the
differences which the court can find between the two statutes,
worthy of mention.
Was there ever a -case m which the, maxim, "De mzmts
.non, curat lex," had more just and wholesome application?
Yet, on account of these differences, a convicted murderer is
to escape the death he deserves and be turned loose on society
I am authorized to say that. MR.JUsTIcE BRADLEY concurs
An this dissefit.

SAVAGE, PETITIONER. Nlo. 6, Original. Petition for a writ of
hLabeas corpss. Argued and submitted January 15, 1890. - Decided

SAVAGE, "retitioner6.
Opinion of the Court.

March 3, 1890.

MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the
court. This case is m every respect the same as that of In re Medley,
Petitioner By petition to us we are advised that Savage was. indicted by the grand jury of Arapahoe County for the crine of murder
in the first degree, charged to.have been committed on the 25th day
of June, A.D. 1889, by killing one Emanuel Harbert, and that on
the 23d of October thereafter he was found guilty by the jury of
murder in the first degree. A similar judgment to that in the case
of Medley was passed upon him, and he was remanded to the
custody of the warden of the penitentiary of the State of Colorado
under an order of precisely the same character as that in the case
of Medley. It will thus be seen that the same statute involved
in that case was the authority un.der which the court of Colorado
rendered its judgment and'committed the prisoner to. the care of
the warden of the penitentiary; that'this statute came into force
after the commission of the offence of winch Savage was convicted,
and is, therefore, extpostfacto in its application to his case. The
same order, therefore, that wE have directed to be entered in Medley's case will be entered in this case, releasing the prisoner from
the custody of the warden, after due notice to the attorney general
of the State of Colorado.
On consideration of the aplicationfor the discharge of the petitioner, James H. Savage, the writ of habeas corpusi directing
J"A. Lamping, warden of the state penitentiary of the State. of
Colorado at Cailon City, Fremont CVounty, State of Colorado,
to produce the body of the said James H. Savage before this
court, and to certify tfe cause of his detention and imprisonment,
having been duly -issuedand served, and the said J. 4". Lampzng,
warden as aforesaid, having certfied that said James H. Savage
is detained ;n his custody under and by virtue of a writ issued
out of the District Court of Arapahoe County, State of Colorado,
and the cause of said smprisonment having been duly rnquired
into by this court upon the-return of the said writ of habeas co?7pisheretofore issuedherein, and counsel having been heretofore heard
and due considerationhaving been had.
It s now here ordered by this court that the 2mprisonment of said
James H. Savage under said writ issued out of the District Court
of Arapahoe County, State of Colorado,-s without authorityo.f law
and ,in
violation of the Constitution of the United States, and that
the said James.H. Savage ts entitled to have hes liberty. 'Wheravor. cxxav-12

