OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Citations for Appellant.

LEE v. SIMPSON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 1418.

Submitted March 17, 1890, with leave to appellant to file reply-brief In ten days. Decided April 1, 1890.

A testatrix, residing in South Carolina, who died in July, 1866, left a will
made by her in 1863, by a co'dicil to which, made in January 1866, she
bequeathed to her daughter, then married to C., three-fourths of her interest in a bond and mortgage debt, to be vested in a trustee, who was
appointed, and to be enjoyed by the daughter during her life, power bemg given to the daughter, to dispose of such " bequest" as she pleased,
"by a last will and testament duly executed by her." In September,
1875, the daughter died, leaving a will executed in September, 1871, which
recited that she was " entitled to legacies" under the will of her mother,
and to a distributive share in the estates of a sister and a brother, "and
notwithstanding my coverture, have full testamentary power to dispose
of the same," and then bequeathed to her husband, C., "the entire property and estate to which I am now in any wise entitled and which I may
hereafter acquire, of whatever the same may consist," " absolutely and
in fee simple;" Held,
(1) The court is authorized to put itself in the position occupied by the
daughter when she made her will, in order to discover from that
standpoint, in view of the circumstances then existing, what she
intended,
(2) The will of the daughter was intended by her to be, and was, a full
execution of the power, because it referred expressly to the subject matter of the power;
(3) The statement in it as to "full testamentary power" referred to the
fact that, although she was a married woman, she had power to
"dispose of the same" by a will, such power being given to her
by the .will of her mother, and did not refer to the provision of
the constitution of 1868 of South Carolina, and the legislation
consequent thereon, enabling married women to dispose of their
.own property by will,
(4) Outside of her interest in the bond and mortgage, she had practically no property.

IN

Decree disnmssmng the bill.
The case is stated in the opinion.

EQUITY.

pealed.

The plaintiff ap-

X& Ze Roy F Youmans, -[r J P Carey, and Mr Alex
ander C. Zing, for appellant, cited Sewall v
ilmer, 132

LEE v. SIJITSON.
Citations for Appellee.

Mass. 131, Jackson v. Chew, 12 Wheat. 153, Henderson v
Grzfln, 5 Pet. 151, Carrollv Safford, 3 How 441, Lane v.
'Fick, 3 How 464, .Denn v Bocke, 5 B. &. 0. 720, S. C.
(House of Lords), 4 Bligh, N. S. 1, Williman v Holmes, 4
Rich. Eq. 475, Scott v Burt, 9 Rich. Eq. 358, Aaron v Beek,
9 Rich. Eq. 411, Wilson v Gaznes, 9 Rich. Eq. 420, Pulliam
v Byrd, 2 Strob. Eq. 134, Bradley v Westcott, 13 Ves. 445,
Chsttenden v Brewster, 2 Wall. 191, Bunce v Gallagher,5
Blatohford, 481, Plant v Barclay, 56 Alabama, 561, Blom,.
fjeld v Eyre, 8 Beavan, 250 Dormer v Fortescue,2 Atk. 282,
Bennet v Thitehead, 2 P Wims. 643, Morgan v .forgan, 1
Atk. 489, ]?oberdeauv ]ious, 1 Atk. 543, Curts v Curs, 2
Bro. Oh. 620; Doe v Keen, 7 T. R. 386, .J]ansellv Mansell, 2
P Wins. 678, Bilderback v Boyce, 14 So. Car. 528, Standen
v Standen, 2 Ves. Jr. 589, Ellison v Efllison, 6 Ves. 656,
Andrews v Emmot, 2 Bro. Oh. 297, Bennett v Aburrow, 8
Ves. 609, Langham v JArenny, 3 Ves. Jr. 467, Morj v Michael,
18 Maryland, 227, Zovell v KYnight, 3 Sim. 275, Wlreatherhead
v. Baskerville, 11 How 329, _Fay v Fay, 1 Cush. 93, Ha~Jield
v. Soher, 114 Mass. 48, Doe v Conszdine, 6 Wall. 458, n re
Clinton's Trust, L. R. 13 Eq. 295, Pratt v McGhiee, 17 So.
Car. 428, Jones v Curry, 1 Swanston, 66, Evans v Evans, 23
Beavan, 1, Osgood v Bliss, 141 Mass. 474; Sewall v RIlmer,
132 Mass. 131, and cases cited, WVhste v 17icks, 33 N. Y. 383,
Pank v Eggleston, 92 Illinois, 515, Andrews v. Brummfmeld, 32
Mississippi, 107, TFe5b v Honnor, 1 Jac. & Walk. 352, Bsnghan's Appeal, 64 Penn. St. 345, Wetherill v. Wetherill, 18
Penn. St. 265, Pattersonv Wilson, 64 Maryland, 193, Pease
v Pilot Jnob Iron Co., 49 Missouri, 124, Blake v Hawktns,
98 -U. S. 315.
Mr Joseph H. E arle, Mr Augustine T Smythe and Mr
A. M. Lee, for appellee, cited. Watts v Ltndsay's IIezrs, 7
Wheat. 158, Pfenn v Uolme, 21 How 481, Fussell v Gregg,
113 U S. 550, Blake v ]iawkzns, 98 U. S. 315, Postlethwaite's Appeal, 68 Penn. St. 477, Clark v Clark, 19 So.
Car. 345, Scaife v Thomson, 15 So. Car. 337, Ladd v Xadd,
8 How 10, C'ane v -3oarris,6 Pet. 598, Kelly v Jackson, 6

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Pet. 622 Blagge v -Miles, 1 Story, 426, Warner v Connect?out jMut. Ins. Co., 109 U S. 357, Carnagy v Woodcock, 2
Munford, 234, S. C. 5 Am. Dec. 470, Reck's Appeal, 78
Penn. St. 432, Still v. fi ear, 45 Penn. St. 168, Finlay v
King, 3 Pet. 346 _Maundrell v. .Jaundrell,10 Ves, 246
Caniedy v Jones, 19 So. Car. 297, Boyd v. Satterwh'ite, 10
So. Car. 45, Bilderback v Boyce, 14 So. Car. 528, .Moody v
Tedder, 16 So. Car. 557, Roach v. Haynea, 8 Yes. 584, Curtems v Eenmck, 9 Sim. 443, Xunson v. Berdaz, 8 Stewart,
(35 N. J Eq.) 376, Whtte v Hicks, 33 N. Y 383.
Mx

JUSTIE BLATCHFO:RD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of South Carolina, dismissing
the bill of complaint of Isabella Lee, an infant, by her vext
friend, Gideon Lee, against Richard W Simpson.
The following are the material facts involved in the case
On May 13, 1854, Mrs. Ploride Calhoun was seized and
possessed of the tract of land situate in that part of Pickens
district which is now Oconee County, in the State of South
Carolina, on the east side of the Seneca River, known as the
Fort Hill place, containing eleven hundred and ten acres,
more or less, and on that day she and her daughter, Cornelia
M. Calhoun, sold and conveyed that tract of land, together
with certain personal property, to Andrew P Calhoun, for
the sum of $49,000, Cornelia M. Calhoun having no interest in
the real estate. Andrew P Calhoun executed his bond under
seal to Mrs. Calhoun and Cornelia, conditioned for the payment of $40,200 to Mrs. Floride Calhoun, and the remaining
$8800 to Cornelia, and, to secure the payment of the bond
representing the purchase money, and as a part of the same
transactibn, at the same time executed and delivered to Mrs.
Calhoun and Cornelia separate mortgages of the same tract
of land and of -the personal property, to secure the payment
of the sums of money mentioned in the bond.
On the 27th of June, 1863, Mrs. Calhoun made her last will
and testament, whereby, among other things, she devised and
bequeathed as follows

LEE v. SIMPSOT.
Opinion of the Court.

"2. To my daughter Anna Maria, wife of Thomas G. Clemson, of Maryland, I give, devise and bequeath during her life,
and for her sole and separate use, the following property My
house and lot in Pendleton and the land attached and belonging thereto, purchased by me from Mrs. William Adger, together with the furniture and everything in the house and
upon the premises, reserving, however, the silver and such
other articles as I may hereinafter specifically give to others,
also all my jewelry and the silver cross and .prayer-book presented to me by the church. at Newport, :Rhode Island. AtAnna's death I devise and bequeath all the above-menti ned
property to her daughter, Floride Clemson, and at the death
of Floride, if she dies without issue,*I devise and bequeath it
to my sons', John's and William's, children then living, equally
among them, or, if they be dead, to their issue then living."
"119. I am possessed still of a large residue of property, consisting principally of a debt due me by nmy son Andrew for
the purchase of Fort Hill, amounting to about forty thousand
two hundred dollars, secured to me by bond and mortgage. I
have also an unsecured interest m a gold mine in Dahlonega,
Georgia, belonging to the estate of my late husband, and also
an interest in the estate of my second son, Patrick, and second
daughter, Cornelia, besides other property Whatever real or
personal property I may possess at my death and not hereinbefore specifically or otherwise disposed of, I direct my executors
to sell whenever they shall deem it advisable. I direct.my executors to collect, as fast as possible, the above-mentioned residue of my estate, and, after paying off my%debts and the legacy
to Calhoun Clemson, the remainder I wish divided: into four
parts, which I dispose of as follows
"20. One part, being the fourth of the above residue, I
give and bequeath to my daughter Anna during her life and
for her sole and separate use, and at her death I will and bequeath it to her daughter Floride, and at Floride's death, if
she dies without issue, I will and bequeath it to the children of
my deceased sons, John and William, then living, equally
among them, or to their issue if they be dead, issue to represent the parent. The better to effect my intentions an regard

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opidion of the Court.

to the property in this and the second clause given to Anna, I
appoint Edward Noble, of Abbeville, trusteer for it and vest in
him the legal title. Should Anna at any time. wish to sellthe
house and lands in Pendleton or all or any portion of the property given to her for life, the trustee, provided it meets with
his approval, is authorized to dispose of it according to the
wishes of my daughter, upon having her written request for
so doing.
he proceeds of such sale the trustee shall hold
subject to the trusts and limitations declared in-reference to
the original property. The trustee is authorized and required
to invest the proceeds, and also the fourth part of the residue
herein given to her, in such property or in such way as she
may in writing direct, provided it meets with his approval.
The trustee is authorized and required from time to time to
change such investments as often as he may be directed so to
do by my said daughterin writing, provided it meets with his
approval, holding always the substituted property or reinvestments subject to the trusts and limitations aforesaid. If from
death or any other cause there is no trustee, or if Anna at any
time shall desire to change her trustee, she .3hall have the
power so to do and to appoint another by any instrument in
writing, under seal, executed by her in the presence of two
subscribing witnesses; and as often as she may desire to
change her trustee she shall have the power so to do by
observing the form and solemnity above described.
"21. One-fourth part of said residue of my said estate I
give and bequeath to my granddaughter, Floride Elizabeth
Clemson, but if Floride should diewithout leaving issue I give
and bequeath it at her death to the children of my sons John
and William, or-the issue of them if they be dead, the issue to
take by representation.
"22. The remaining two-fourths I dispose of as follows
To Kate P Calhoun, my daughter-n-law, I give and bequeath
the one-half of the one-fourth of said residue of my estate, to
be enjoyed by her during widowhood. At her death or marriage, whichever first happens, I give and bequeath the same
to such of her -children-being

my grandchildren

-

as may

then be alive, but should either of my said grandchildren die

LEE v. SIMPSON.
-Opinion of the Court.

under twenty-one years of age, leaving no child or children,
the share of such deceasing grandchild shall go to the survivors or survivor of them or their issue, the issue representing
the parent. If Kate should die before me, what I have given
her in this will is not to revert to my estate, but is to go to her
children -my

grandchildren-

living at my death, subject to

the conditions and limitations above expressed.
"23. The remaimng fourth and half of a fourth of the afore.
said residue of my estate I -give and bequeath to my grandsons, John C. Calhoun and Benjamin A. P Calhoun, sons of
my deceased son John, and William Lowndes Calhoun, child
of my second son William, equally among them, and should
either of them die under twenty-one years of age, leaving no
issue, the share of such deceased child shall go to the survivor
or survivors."
On the 22d of January, 1866, Mlrs. Calhoun duly made a
codicil to her last will and testament, wherein, among other
things, she revoked the devise of the real property in Pendleton made to Anna Clemson in the second paragraph of her
will, and devised the same to other persons, and provided as
follows
"2. By the nineteenth clause of the will I directed the said
bond debt on. my deceased son Andrew, secured by mortgage
on Fort Hill, together with all other property possessed by me
and not before disposed of, to be collected by my executors
and the proceeds to be, divided into four parts. One part I
gave -tQ Anna, one. part to her daughter Floride, and the two
other ji rts to Kate and her children, as will appear by clauses
20, 21, 22 and 23 of the -will. I desire now to change the-disposition of the said bond and mortgage debt, and do now give
and bequeath it in the following manner Three-fourths of
my interest in said bond, and mortgage debt; amounting to
about forty thousand two hundred dollars, I hereby give aikd
bequeath *to.my daughter, Anna M:. Clemson, to be enjoyed
by her under clause twenty of the will, and according to the
provisions of that clause to vest in the same trustee and to be
subject to all the powers, trusts, conditions and limitations of
that clause precisely as the bequests therein made were subVOL. cx-xrv---37

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

ject to them, with this exception and alteration, that my daughter Anna is hereby authorized and empowered by a last will
and testament duly executed by her, to dispose of this bequest
of three-fourths of said bond and mortgage debt as she pleases.
If she does not thus dispose of it at her death, I give and bequeath it, the said three-fourths, to her daughter, Floride, and
should the said Floride die without leaving issue I give and
bequeath it at her death to her brother, Calhoun Clemson,
but, nevertheless, Floride shall likewise have power to dispose
of it at her death as she pleases, by a last will and testament
duly executed by her. By clause second of the will I gave
the furniture and every article of the property in my house in
Pendleton and upon the premises, with certain reservations,
and also my jewelry and some other small articles, to my said
daughter Anna. I now confirm to her the bequests of aforesaid furniture and all other personal property embraced in
said second clause, which it is my will that she shall enjoy for
life as her sole and separate estate, and at her death I give and
bequeath all this personal property to her daughter Florido
absolutely To Anna I also give and bequeath the oil portrait
of my mother, which by clause fifth of my will I gave to my
daughter-in-law Kate.
"3. The remaining one-fourth part -of my interest in said
bond and mortgage debt against the estate of my deceased son
Andrew I give and bequeath to Floride Elizabeth Clemson,
my granddaughter, but if she dies with6ut leaving issue I give
and bequeath it to her brother, Jhn Calhoun Clemson. She,
nevertheless, is hereby authorized and empowered to dispose
6f said fourth part, as she pleases, by her last will and testament duly executed.
"4. Should my granddaughter Floride's death occur before
mine, what I have given her in the will and codicil shall not
fall into the residuum of my estate, but I give and bequeath
it to her mother, my daughter Anna, who shall take it subject
to all the trusts, powers and limitations imposed upon the direct
bequest to her; and should my daughter Anna's death occur
before mine, what I have given her in the several clauses of
the will and codicil ;hall not fall into the residuum of my

LEE v. SIMPSON.
Opinion of the Court.

estate, but I give and bequeath the same to her daughter
Floride, who shall take and enjoy it as her mother would have
done if living, subject to the same trusts, powers, limitations
and conditions, and should both Anna and Floride die before
me,.what has been given them in the several clauses of the
will and codicil shallnot fall into the said residuum, but I give
and bequeath the whole to my grandson, John Calhoun
Clemson.
"5. Should I at any time collect the aforesaid bond and
mortgage debt, or any part of it, or should Fort Hill be purchased with it, or the money be invested. in any other property, or be retained in band, the property thus purchased, the
property thus obtained by investment, and the money thus
retained shall be considered and held to be in the place of and
the same as the aforesaid bond and mortgage, and shall pass
under this codicil as if the same were still in the form of said
bond and mortgage -that is to say, shall pass to my daughter Anna and granddaughter JFloride, as aforesaid bond and
mortgage debt is directed to be divided between them."
On the 12th of March, 1866, Mrs. Floride Calhoun, and
Thomas G. Clemson, (to whom letters of admimstration had
been granted in February, 1866, on the personal estate of
Cornelia M. Calhoun, who had departed this life intestate
and unmarried in that year,) as administrator of the personal
estate- of Cornelia, exhibited their bill in the court of equity
for the district of Pickens, State of South Carolina, against
Andrew P Calhoun and others, for the foreclosure of the
mortgage on the tract of land known as the Fort Hill place,
executea to secure payment of the bond aforesaid, and for the
sale of the land for that purpose,, and at the July term, 1866,
of the court a decree'was made, whereby it was adjudged that
the mortgage be. foreclosed and the land sold, which decree
on appeal, was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State
of South Carolina, and the cause remanded to the Circuit Court
for further proceedings in accordance therewith.
During -the pendency of that 'uit; and on the 25th of July,
1866, Mrs. Floride Calhoun departed- this life, leaving in 'full
force her last will' and testament, as modified by the codicil

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

aforesaid, and thereafter, on the 7th of August, 1866, her
last will and testament and the codicil thereto were duly
admitted to probate, and Edward Noble, one of the persons
mentioned as executors therein, duly qualified as such on the
same day
In August, 1869, Floride E. Clemson intermarried with
Gideon Lee, of the State of New York, and the plaintiff,
Isabella Lee, is the only child of such mariage, and, on the
27th of August, 1871, the said Floride E. Lee, formerly
Clemson, died intestate, leaving surviving her, as her sole
heirs-at-law and distributees, her husband, Gideon Lee, and
her daughter, Isabella Lee, the plaintiff.
On the 29th of September, 1871, Mrs. Anna C. Clemson
made her last will and testament, as follows
"In the name of God, Amen.
"Whereas I am entitled to legacies under the last will of
my deceased mother, Floride Calhoun, and to a distributive
share in the several estates of my deceased sister, Cornelia
Calhoun, and my brother, Patrick Calhoun, and, notwithstanding my coverture, have full testamentary power to dispose of
the same
"Now I, Anna Calhoun Clemson, the wife of Thomas G.
Clemson, of the town of Pendleton, in the county of Anderson
and State aforesaid, being of sound and disposing mind, memory, and understanding, do make this my last will and testament in manner following"I will, devise, and bequeath the entire property and estate
to which I am now in anywise entitled and which I may
hereafter acquire, of whatever the same may consist, to my
beloved husband, Thomas G. Clemson, absolutely and in fee
simple, but should my husband, Thomas G. Clemson, depart
this life leaving me his survivor, or should he survive me and
then die intestate, in either event I will, devise and bequeath
my entire property and estate, as well as that which I may
hereafter acquire, of whatever the same may consist, to my
granddaughter, Isabella Lee, the child of Gideon Lee, of the
State of New York, absolutely and in fee-simple. I hereby
nominate and constitute Thomas G. Clemson executor of this
my will."

LEE v. SIMPSON.
Opinion of the Court.

The proceedings for foreclosure against Andrew P Calhoun
duly went to decree, Noble, executor, having been substituted
as one of the complainants, under which the Foit Hill property was sold and purchased by Thomas G. Clemson, as
trustee of his wife, on January 1, 1872, and on June 10, 1875,
title was made for the same, in pursuance of -an order of the
court, to Thomas G. Clemson, as trustee of Anna IM.Clemson,
under the will of Mrs. Floride Calhoun, he having been duly
appointed such trustee on the 13th of December, 1871. The
consideration for said purchase and conveyance appears to
have been the mortgage debt of Andrew P Calhoun, and JMr.
Clemson, it is alleged, also discharged legacies and demands
to the amount of $6964.93 in the purchase and redemption
of said property
On the 5th of November. 1873., a partition in kind was
made of the Fort Hill property between Anna M. Clemson
and Thomas G. Clemson, as her trustee, on the one part, and
the plaintiff and Gideon Lee, as her guardian, on the other
part, by winch one-fourth part thereof, amounting to about
288 acres, was allotted and set off to the 'plaintiff, and the
remainder, amounting to about 814 acres, was allotted and set
off to said Anna M. Clemson and Thomas G. Clemson, and
the plaintiff thereupon entered into possession of the parcel so
allotted' to her, and has ever since remained in possession
thereof.
On the 12th of September, 1875, Anna iM. Clemson, otherwise known as Anna C. Clemson, died, leaving in.
full force
and unrevoked her said last will and testament bearing date
September 29, 1871, which was duly admitted to probate,
and from September, 1875, to the time of his death Thomas
G. Clemson remained in quiet, open.and continuqus possession
of the property, claiming to hold the same as his individual
property in fee-simple.
On April 6, 1888, Thomas G. Clemson died, leaving in full
force and unrevoked his last will and testament, bearing date
the 6th of- November,. 1886, together with a codicil thereto,
bearing date the 26th of' March, 1887, 'which will and codicil
were duly admitted to probate on the 20th of April, 1888.

OCTOBER TERIVI, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

In and by the codicil the defendant Simpson was named and
constituted the sole executor of the will, and the Fort Hill
property was devised to him on certain trusts, fully set out
therein, in virtue whereof the defendant entered into and now
remains in possession of the Fort Hill property
The bill in this case was filed on the 26th of November,
1888. After setting forth the contents of the will and codicil
of Mrs. Floride Calhoun, the foreclosure of the mortgage
given by Andrew P Calhoun, the death of Mrs. Floride Calhoun, the probate of her will and codicil, the marriage of her
granddaughter, Floride Elizabeth Clemson, to Gideon Lee,
the status of the plaintiff as their daughter, the death of Mrs.
Lee, leaving her husband Gideon Lee, and the plaintiff as her
sole heirs at law and distributees, it alleged that the property
so devised by-Mrs. Floride Calhoun for the use of Mrs. Clemson passed to the plaintiff under the provisions of the will of
Mrs. Calhoun, that, after the death of Mrs. Calhoun, a decree
was made in the foreclosure suit for the sale of the property,
that under that decree it was sold, in January, 1872, to
Thomas G. Clemson, as trustee for his wife, the said Anna M.
Clemson, under the last will of Mrs. Calhoun and the codicil
'thereto, Clemson having been substituted as trustee in the
place of Edward Noble, that the sale was -confirmed and the
title to the property conveyed to Clemson, trustee as aforesaid,
in consideration of the premises, which were a recital of the
proceedings in the case and the nominal consideration of three
dollars, no money having been paid, and no cash paid into
court or into the hands of its officers, except the costs, that
the deed to Clemson was duly recorded, and the property thus
taken in part payment of the debt of Andrew P Calhoun was
held continuously by Clemson as trustee, up to the time of his
death, under the trusts created by the will and codicil of Mrs.
Calhoun, that thereafter, the plaintiff being then entitled to
one-fpurth of the property in fee-simple absolute under the
will and codicil of Mrs. Calhoun, and Mrs. Clemson being entitled to a life estate in three-fourths thereof for her sole and
separate use, with remainder to the plaintiff on the death of
Mrs. Clemson, in case the latter did not exercise the power of

LEE v. SIMPSON.
Opinion of the Court.

appointment by her last will and testament, as provided by the
will and codicil of Mrs. Calhoun, the plaintiff's father, acting
for her, and Clemson, as trustee under the will and codicil of
Mrs. Calhoun, made an informal partition of the property,
and since that time the plaintiff had been in possession of
about 300 acres of it, and the remainder of it, consisting of
about 814 acres, had been in possession of Clemson up to the

time of his death, and since that time in the possession of the
defendant, claming under Clemson, as trustee under the will
and codicil of Mrs. Calholin, that Mrs. Clemson died in September, 1875, Without having exercised the power of appointment conferred upon her by the will and codicil of Mrs.
Calhoun, that thereupon the plaintiff became entitled, in feesimple absolute, to the three-fourths of the property then in
the possession .of Clemson, as trustee, and to the rents and
profits of that part of the property from that time, that
Clemson remained in possession of that part of the property
subject to the trusts of the will and codicil of Mrs. Calhoun,
from the time of the death of Mrs. Clemson until he died, in
April, 1888, leaving the plaintiff his sole heir at law, during
the whole of which time he collected the rents and profits of
the property, amounting m all to over $31,000, without mclading interest, that since the death of Clemson the defendant had in some manner, claiming under Clemson, acquired
possession of the .814 acres, and of the rents and profits thereof,
without having been appointed trustee under the will and codicil of Mrs. Calhoun, and that the defendant was about to
make a deed of the 814 acres, and of such accumulated rents
and profits, to uses and purposes which would wholly defeat
such rights of the plaintiff.
The bill waived an answer on oath, and prayed for an
accounting by the defendant of -the rents and profits of the
14 acres, that the trusts on which Clemson held the property
be declared, that the cloud upon the plaintiff's title to it be
removed, that she be adjudged to hold the property in feesimple absolute, that the defendant account for. the personal
property in which Mrs. Clemson .had a life estate, and in
which the plaintiff has an estate in remainder or otherwise,

OCTOBER

TERMI, 1889.

Opinion of the Court.

which came into his possession, and that he be enjoined from
conveying any part of the property, or any of the property of
which Clemson died possessed, to any use or trust which would
tend in any manner to cloud the title of the plaintiff or defeat
her rights in the premises, and for general relief.
The answer set up that Mrs. Clemson, by her last will and
testament, duly executed and duly admitted 'to probate, disposed of the property held under the trusts of the will and
codicil of Mrs. Calhoun, in favor of her husband, Thomas G.
Clemsoir; that from and immediately after her death the
property vested in him in fee-simple, and that his continuous
and undisturbed possession thereof.from that time was in his
own right, and not as trustee.
After a replication, proofs were taken, and the case was
heard by the Circuit Court, with the result before stated.
The opinion of -that court is reported in 39 Fed. Rep. 235.
It passed upon what is the only material question in the case;
namely, as to whether Mrs. CIemson, by her will, exercised the
power given to her by the will and codicil of Mrs. Calhoun, to
dispose of the bequest of. three-fourths of the interest of Mrs.
Calhoun in the bond and mortgage debt of. Andrew P Calhoun, amounting to about $40,200. The conclusion of the
court was; that the will of Mrs. Clems6n referred to the property which was the subject of the power and also to the power
itself , -that it was her intention to dispose of the property in
question by her will, and that such intention was oarried out
in due execution of the power.
The recital in the will of- Mrs. Clemson- is as follows
" Whereas I am entitled to legacies under the last will of my
deceased mother, Floride Calhoun, and to a distributive share
in the several. estates of my deceased sister, Cornelia Calhoun,
and my brother, Patrick Calhoun, and, notwithstanding my
coverture, have full testamentary power fo dispose of the
same." It then proceeds as follows "I will, devise and bequeath the entire property and estate to which I am now in
any wise entitled and which I may hereafter acquire, of whatever the same may consist, to my beloved husband, Thomas G.
Clemson, absolutely and in fee-simple ,'but should my husband,

LEE v. SIMPSON.
Opihlon of the'Court.

Thomas G. Clemson, depart this life, leaving me his survivor,
or should he survive me and then die intestate, in either event
I will, devise, and bequeath my entire property and estate, as
' well as that which I may hereafter acquire, of whatever the
same may consist, to my granddaughter, Isabella Lee, the
child of Gideon Lee, of the State of New York, absolutely
and in fee-simple."
As Mrs. Clemsou died befbre her husband, and as he did not
die intestate, this last devise and bequest 'to the plaintiff did
not become., operative, and the clause containing it is of no
effect, except as its language may bear upon the proper construction of the entire instrument.
The view taken by the Circuit Court was that, as Mrs.
Clemson had the right, for her life, to the enjoyment of the
property held in trust for her under the will and codicil of
Mfrs. Calhoun, and the absolute power of disposing of it by
will, she treated it by her will as being as much hers as the.
distributive share, referred to m her will, in the several estates
of her sister and brother;. .that it would be too narrow and
technical a construction of the will, under the circumstances, so to limit the language, of the devise and bequest as to
exclude the exercise of the power; that the mention of the
distributive share m the estates of her sister and her brother
allowed it to be said that the language of the devise and bequest
might have some effect by means of her interest in such distributive share, but that would not be all the effect which the
words imported, that, if the intention to pass the property
held in trust could be -discovered, such intention ought to prevail, that the intent to -dispose of such property was apparent
,on the face of the will, that,.as. it plainly referred to the property covered by the power, its language could not be satisfied
unless the instrument should operate as an execution of th~e
power, that the recital in. the will that, notwithstanding her
coverture, she had "full testamentary power to dispose of the
same," (referring to the legacies under the will of her mother
and to a distributive share in, the estate of her sister and
brother,) could not be regarded as- merely a reference to the
fact that, shortly before that time, married women in South

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Carolina had, by the constitution of 1868, and the legislation
consequent thereon, been enabled to dispose of their property
by will, because, in that view, such statement would have been
wholly uncalled for, as she could alienate her own property in
any way she chose, while the property held in trust for her
for her life could be disposed of by her only by will, and that,
therefore, the more reasonable inference was that she referred,
by the words "full testamentary power," to the will of .her
mother, rather than to her own recently acquired legal capacity-, though a married woman, to make a will, as to the property in which she did not have merely a life estate, with a
power of appointment.
By the will and codicil of Mrs. Calhoun, the following bequests or legacies were left to Mrs. Clemson (1) A bequest
for life of three-fourths of the bond and mortgage debt due
by Andrew P Calhoun, (2) A devise and bequest for life of
certain real estate, furniture and other personal property mentioned in the second clause of the will and in the second clause
of the codicil, (3) A share for life, in a part of the -residuary
estate left after the payment of debts; (4) A share for life in
the remainder of such residuary estate, if her grandsons should
die under age and without issue, (5) Her grandmother's portrait. All of these legacies, except such portrait, were made
to Mrs. Clemson for her life. In regard to the portrait, as
Mrs. Calhoun died in July, 1866, and Mr. and Mrs. Clemson
were then both of them living the rights of Mr. Clemson under
the common law rule immediately attached to the portrait,
and it became at once his personal property The legacies to
Mrs. Clemson or for her benefit were all personal property at
the time of her death. The fifth clause of the codicil to the
will of Mrs. Calhoun directs that if Fort Hill, the property in
question, should be purchased with the bond and mortgage
debt, the property so purchased should "be considered and
held to be in the pvlge of and the same as the aforesaid bond
and mortgage,"-9and should "pass under this codicil as if the
same were still in the form of said bond and mortgage," that
is to say,- should pass to -Mrs. Clemson and her daughter Floride, as the "aforesaid bond and mortgage debt is directed to

LEE v. SIMhPSON.
Opinion of the Court.

be divided between them." In her will and codicil, Mrs.
Calhoun speaks of the provisions made for Mrs. Clemson as
"bequests," and also as the "property' given to her.
At the time Mrs. Clemson's will was made, the court had ordered, in July, 1871, the sale of the Fort-Hill property to satisfy
the mortgage debt, which then amounted to over $65,000. It
was manifest that the property would have to be purchased
by the mortgagees, but as, in fact, it had.not been purchased
when the will was made, the mortgage debt was still, under
the will of Mrs. Calhoun, a legacy of personal property, and
would be spoken of properly, in the will of Mrs. Clemson, as a
legacy to which she was entitled under the will of-her mother.
Moreover, by the terms of that will, the investment in the
Fort Hill property was still *to be considered as personal
property
Mrs. Clemson's distributive share in her sister's estate was,.
at the time Mrs. Clemson made her will, of small value, as she
ultimately received from it, at most, only $601.94. Her share
in her brother's estate was at that time also small, amounting
only to $120.49, although, in fact, she received $150. This
was all the property which she had, or supposed she had, when
she made her will, and all that she intended to dispose of.
The rents which had accumulated on the Fort Hill property
before it was sold under the decree offoreclosure did not belong to Mrs. Clemson. but-belonged to the estate of Andrew
LP'alhoun, the mortgage debtor; and when they were received by Mr. Clemson in part payment of the debt they were
to be held. by him as trustee of Mrs. Clemson under the will
and codicil of Mrs. Calhoun.
Putting ourselves in the position occupied by Mrs. Clemson
when -she made her will, as we are authorized to do, in view
of the circumstances then existing, in order to discover from
that standpoint what she intended, Blake v. Hawkzs, 98
U. S. 315, 324, Poqtlethwaite'sA~peal, 68 Penn. St.- 47V, 480,
MBfcCall v. ilk Cal, 4 Richardson Eq. 448, 455, &cai.fe v
Thompson, 15 So. Car. 337, 357, 6aark v Olark, 19 So. Car.
315, 348, 349, we are of opinion that the will of Mrs. Clemson
was intended by her to be, and was, a full execution of the

OCTOBER T RI[, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

power, She was entitled to bequests and legacies under the
will .and codicil of Mrs. Calhoun, which they spoke of as
"property," and which Mrs. Clemson was authorized to dispose of as she pleased. It was lawful for her to execute such
power in favor of her husband. The interest to which- the
power applied was at the time personal property, and was
a lgacy or bequest. Her will refers to the fact that she is
entitled to legacies under the will of her mother, and to a distributive share in the estates of her sister and brother. This is
the property which she believed she had, this. is what she
really had .and this is what she intended to dispose of by herwill. Thd will, therefore, in referring to the legacies to which
she. is entitled under the will of her mother, refers expressly
to the subject matter of the power. The second article of the
codicil to the mother's will, after bequeathing to Mrs. Clemson, for life, the three-fourths, interest in the bond and mortgage debt, gives her the power "to dispose of this bequest,"
thus applying. that word to the'remainder which the daughter
took no interest in, but merely a power to dispose of., and
'Mrs. Clemson, in using the word "legacies," must have intended to include the interest in remainder, which her mother
had called a "1bequest."
As to the legacy of the three-fourths interest for life in the
bond and mortgage debt, she had only a power of appointYnent. Her property in it had only that extent, but it bad
that extent, and to that extent she regarded it as her property, which consisted of the right, to.the use of it for her life
and of the power of disposing of it 'by her will. The stateient that, notwithstanding her coverture, she had " full testa,
mentary power to dispose of the same," refers to the fact that,
although she was a married woman, she had power to dispose
of the same by a will, such power being given to her by the
will of her mother. The expression has the same meaning as
.if it had read "full power to dispose of the same by will."
This power so to dispose of the subject of the power created
by the will of her mother she possessed fully, without the aid
of the provision of the constitution and legislation of South
Carolina enabling married women to dispose of. their own

LEE v. SIMPSON.

589

Opinion of the Court.

property by will, because without a statute of that kind married women coffld always execute powers of appointment.
The provision of the constitution and statute might have been
necessary to authorize her to dispose by will of her distributive shares of the estates. of her sister aflad her brother, but
with her power to dispose of such shares by her will we are
not here concerned. By the constitution, adopted in 1868,
and the legislation in pursuance thereof, Mrs. Clemson had as
full legal capacity to make a will as if she were a feme sole,
and she needed no other power to enable her to do so. Her
mother died in 1866, and the power conferred by that will
and codicil upon Mrs. Olemson was conferred upon- her as a
married woman, and was afterwards exercised by her as a
married woman.
We then come to the following language in the will. "I
will, devise and bequeath the entire property and estate to
which I am now in anywise. entitled and which I may hereafter acquire, of whatever the same may consist, to my
beloved husband, Thomas G. Clemson, absolutely and in feesimple." Outside of her interest in the bond and mortgage
on the property. in question, to which she was entitled as a
.legacy under the will of her mother, she had practically no
property, her interest in her brother's and sister's estates being
of such small value. Unless, therefore, by referringto legacies
under -the will of her mother, she refers to the .interest in the
bond and mortgage, all that she could refer to as having come
to her under the will of her mother would be, at most, the oil
portrait of her grandmother. It cannot be reasonably supposed that that is the proper construction of the will. As for
the interest or income she had derived during her life from
the bond and mortgage property, the moment it was received
it became her property, and it could not properly be regarded
as covered by the expression of legacies to which she was entitled under the will of her mother.
The question of the execution of a power is very fully discussed by Mr. Justice Story in Blagge v Miles, 1 Story, 426.
The rule laid down in that case is, that if the donee of the
power intends to execute it, and the mode be in other respects

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

unexceptionable, that intention, however manifested, whether
directly or indirectly, positively or by just implication, will
make the execution valid and operative, that the intention to
execute the power must be apparent and clear, so tnat the
transaction is not fairly susceptible of any other interpretation, but if it be doubtful, under all the circumstances, then
that doubt will prevent it from being deemed an execution of
the power, and that it is not necessary, however, that the
intention to execute the power should appear by express terms
or recitals in the instrument, but it is sufficient that it appears
by words. acts or deeds demonstrating the intention. Judge
Story states, as the result of the English authorities, that three
classes of cases have been held to be sufficient demonstrations
of an intended execution of a power (1) Where there has
been som6,reference in the will, or other instrument, to the
power, (2) Or a reference to the property, which is the subject on which it is to be execilted, (3) Or where the provision
in the will or other instrument, executecl by the donee of the
power, would otherwise be ineffectual, or a mere nullity, in
other words, it would have no operation, except as an execution of the power. The rule thus stated was referred to with
approval by this court in Blake v llawkins, 98 U S. 315, 326,
and in WaTrner v Connecticut Mutual Life Ins. Co., 109 U S.
357, 366, by the Court of Appeals of New York, in Thste v.
Hlicks, 33 N. Y 383, 392; and by the Supreme Court of Illinois, in Fuink v Eggleston, 92 Illinois, 515, 538, 539, 547. See,
also, Meeker v Bretntnall, 38 N. J Eq. 345.
Nor is the rule different under the decisions of the courts of
South Carolina. Hopkims' Executors v Mazyc, Rich. Eq.
Oas. 263, Porcherv Daniel, 12 Rich. Eq. 349, Boyd v Satterwhite, 10 So. Car. 45, Bilderback v Boyce, 14 So. Car. 528,
-Moody v. Tedder, 16 So. Car 557.
The.counsel for the appellant relies with great confidence
on the case of Bilderback v- Boyce, supra, where real estate
was devised by- a father to trustees, to permit his son to take
the income for life, with remainder to such persons as the son
by his will might appoint, and, in -default of appointment, to
the children of the son. The son by his will gave, devised and

LEE v. SIMP'SON.
Opinion of the Comt.

bequeathed "all the rest and residue of my estate, whatever
and Wherever," to persons named, but did not mention the
power or the trust property He had real estate in his own
right. The court held that there was no execution of the
power, on the ground that the will disposed in general terms
of the whole estate of the donee of the power, without any
reference in terms to the power or the property, and that the
donee's own property satisfied the terms of the will. The
land to which the power related was not mentioned in the
will, nor was the power referred to, and the terms of the will.
were satisfied by the property which the son left, without
including that as to which the power existed. But the'court
.cites with approval the case of Blagge v .Jfiles, supra, and
quotes the passage from it before referred to, and takes as its
guide, as the result of all the American authorities, the principle, that "the intention to execute must'be apparent and clear,
so that the transaction is not fairly susceptible of any other
interpretation."
In the subsequent case of. -Moody v Tedder, supra, one
Griggs, by his will, devised and bequeathed to his wife, for
life, all his property, both real and personal, empowering her
to use and dispose of so much of it as might be necessary for
her comfortable support and maintenance, in such, style and
manner as she might see fit, and gave whatever portion might
be remaining of the property after the death of his wife to the
wife of one Tedder. The widow of Griggs, for a consideration, conveyed to Tedder all her ".interest and life estate" in
the "property left to me for life" by the will of Griggs. It
was held, that the widow of Griggs, as life tenant, had an absolute power of disposing of the property, and that the conveyance to Tedder carried not only the life estate but also the
power of disposal, and must be referred to the power which
the widow possessed, whether it purported to be an execution
of the power or not. The view of the court was that, as the
words of the conveyance were "all my interest and life
estate," and as Mrs. Griggs had, besides the life estate, no
other interest in the property, and as express reference-was
made to the property- as to which the -power existed, by

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

describing it as "property left to me for life" by the will of
Griggs, her deed must. be considered as conveying all her
rights in the estate, including her power of disposal, although
the conveyance made no reference in terms to such power.
The court said, that while it was true that the word "interest" was not the technical term to express the idea of a power,
it was broad enough, in its ordinary acceptation, to cover it,
and that the conveyance was intended to include such power.
The opinion added that the question of the execution of a
power was one of intention, and it then cited the case of Bilderback v Boyce, supra, as establishing the principl.e, that "if
the devisee of the power intends to execute it, that intention,
however manifested, whether directly or indirectly, positively
or by just implication, will make the execution valid and operative," although "the intention to execute the power must be
apparent and clear, so that the transaction is not fairly susceptible of any other interpretation."
In the present case, the will of Mrs. Clemson recites that she
is entitled to legacies under the will of her mother. It refers
to bequests left to her for life, with the power of disposition.
It thus refers to the power and also to ,the property which is
the subject of the power, namely, the legacies left to her in
her mother's will. Furthermore, the statement in the will of
Mirs. Clemson that she has full testamentary power to dispose
of those legacies is, in view of the fact that the will of her
mother does give her the power to dispose of those legacies as
she pleases, an express and direct reference to such power,
-because under the constitution and statute of South Carolina,
in force at the time Mrs. Clemson made her will, she could
have disposed by will of any oth ir property which she had,
without the aid of any special power to do so. H1er will then
states that she wills, devises and bequeaths to her husband,
absolutely and in fee-simple, "the entire property and estate to
which I am now in anywise entitled, and which I may hereafter acquire, of whatever the same -may consist." She does
not here say "my property and estate," but the language she
uses is adequate to include not only what was her own in feesimple and in full right, but also all that in which she was in-

LEE v. SINPSON.
Opuuon of the Court.

terested, or over winch she had any control. The words an
anywise entitled" are sufficient to cover not only property
which she held in her own full right, but also .property which
she held in a limited right under her mothefs will. The word
"C
property" was the very word use,e byher-mother in describing, in her will and codicil, the estate and interest which she
had given to Mrs. Clemson. Thus, in clause 20 of -the will of
Ms. Calhoun, which gives to Mrs. Clemson for life a share in
the residue of the estate, she speaks of " the property" given
to Mrs. Clemson in that clause and in the second clause of the
will, the latter clause containing only a devise and .bequest to
Mrs. Clemson for life of certain real estate and personal prop
erty Therefore, Mrs. Clemson, in using the words -I the en,
tire property and estate to which I am now in anywise entitled," must be regarded as referring to that in respect to which
she had- the power of disposition by the will of her mother.
Otherwise, we have the case of a reference to legacies left to
Mrs. Clemson wnder her mother's will, and to her power of
disposing of them, which is meaningless unless the language
of the devise and bequest which follows covers the property in
regard to which she had such power of disposition. At the
time of her death, in September, 1815, she had received -all
that she was entitled to receive from the estates of her sister
and her brother, and there was nothing then left except the
property which had come to her under her mother's will,
namely, the interest in the -bondand mortgage and the portrait
of her grandmother.
The decree of the. Circuit Couit was right, -andit s
Affirmed.
VOL. CXxxiV-38

