BANIGAN wv.BARD.
-Opinion of the Court.

BANIGAN v. BARD.
ERROR Tif THE cIRCurr CourT OF TuE

UITED STATE SOR THrE

DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.
No. 1354.

Submitted January 5,1890.-

Decided March 17, 1890.

&n officer in a corpuration who is leading in its management, who is active
in securing the passage of a resolution authorizing an. issue of preferred
stock, who subscribes for such stock and pays his subscription and
takes his, certificate and votes upon it at shareholders' meetings for
over two years, and induces others to take such stock, cannot, when the
company becomes insolvent; recover back the money paid -by hun on his
subscription, on the ground that the statutes of the State only authorized
an -issue of-general shares.

Tim case is stated in the opinion.
XAt Tilto

. Dooittle for plaintiff in error.

.Mr. Jeremah Hazlsey for defendant in error.
MRt. J.UsTICE

MmLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Connecticut. The suit was brought
by Charles Bard, receiver of the Hayward Rubber Company,
which was a corpgration organized under the laws of the
State of Connecticut, and located in the town of Colchester in
the county of New London. Bemg in an insolvent condition
its affairs were placed in the hands of said Bard as receiver
for the purpose of winding it up. Bard brought this suit in
his character of receiver, in the Superior Court of New London County, and, on the applicatioh of Bamgan, it was removed into the Circuit Court of the-United States for tle
District of Connecticut. The case was heard there by the
court without the intervention of a jury, upon a stipulation
by the parties that this should be done.
There is filed in the record what purports to be a finding of
facts and. opinion of the court, 39 Fed. Rep. 13, in which the-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

opimon and the statement of the evidence are mingled to-

gether in a way which it is difficult to separate, and which, if
there were any objection to it, might not be found in accordance with sections 649 and '[00 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States. But as there does not seem to be any controversy about the special finding of facts, and as there is a
bill of exceptions in the case wtfich very fairly presents the

only question at issue, we proceed to examine into it.
It appears that the Hayward Rubber Oompany'prior to the
year 1879 had been a profitable concern and paid large dividends, its last being made in 1881. Thereafter its business
deteriorated and became unprofitable. Its capital stock was
$400,000, and the par value of its shares was $25 each. In
January, 1883, the stockholders, in endeavoring to secure
some competent person to oversee and direct the management
of its business, entered into negotiation with defendant, Bamgan, who was president and general agent of the Woonsocket
Rubber Company, and who was a well-known and successful
manufacturer, the result of which was that they sold him four
hundred shares of the stock at $12.50 per share. Mr. Banigan
was appointed general agent of the company by the directors,
and had full control of the manufactory, subject-to their approval. He entered upon the oversight of the business, laid
out and arranged for new buildings, bought new machinery,
orderect new lasts, tools, rolls and cutting machinery, and had
automatic sprinklers put in the mill, all at an expense of some

$12o,000.
In March, 1885, a committee of the directors, of which Mr.
Banigan was a member, sent out a circular recommending an
increase of the capital by the issue of preferred stock to the
amount of $100,000, saying that it was advisable to have a
unanimous vote in favor of the proposition, asking for proxies,
and enclosing resolutions which were to be submitted to a
stockholders' meeting, April 2, 1885. This meeting authorized the issue of preferred stock to the amount of $100,000,
entitled to cumulative dividends at 8 per cent per annum,
which issue took precedence of all dividenAs on the common
stock and any future additions thereto. The order in regard

BA TIGAN v. BARD.
Opinion of the Court.

to the issue of preferred stock was passed- by a unanimous
vote of the shares present or represented at the meeting,
being 13,400 shares. The whole number of shares was
16.000. Each stockholder had the privilege of subscribing to
said stock in proportion to the -number of shares of existing
stock owned by Jaim. Mr. Banigan subscribed for 102 shares
of the preferred stock, and on April 2 paid the company for
it $17,550,-and received. a certificate for said shares, winch contained in substance the provisions of the resolution voted.
Shares to the amount of $25,000 in all were subscribed for.
Barngan voted upon this stocli at one or two annual meetings,
and on June 26 thereafter he wrote to Potter, lovell & Co.,
note brokers of Roston, enclosing a statement of the company's affairs, and saying that it had arranged to issue
$100,000 preferred stock, but "only one-quarter of it has yet
been issued, which I have taken principally" No claim for
repayment of this $17,550 was made until 1888. Meantime
Mr. Banigan continued to be the general agent of the company until it went into the hands of a receiver on August 9,
1887.
A considerable part of the evidence recited in the statement of facts by the court, and in its opinion, had relation to
the question of .the claun for salary or compensation for services which Mr. Banigan set up as a set-off to his admitted
indebtedness to the corporation, which latter amounted to
$26,051.93, being the balance due on account of sales made by
Banigan for the Hayward Ruober Company, as its agent.
But as the allowance- made by the court to the defendant for
his salary, .of 4$10,000, which with the interest amounted to
$12,035.83, is not in controversy, because the plaintiff has
taken no writ of error to that judgment, and as the sum of
$26,051.93 is not in controversy- by Banigan, no further consideration of those matters which relate to the -salary is necessary, and the only question raised before us is that growing
out of the refusal of the court to allow Banigan the sum of
$17,550, which he had paid for the preferred stock of the company, as a set-off to his indet edness, which is not otherwise
disputed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

The court below upon that subject says "The claim for
$17,550 rests upon a question of law
The contention of
defendant is that, inasmuch as the statutes of Connecticut
simply allow a joint stock company to increase its capital
stock, and the articles of association gave no authority to make
preferred stock, it was beyond the power of the Hayward
Rubber Company to create such a class of stock, and there
was a total failure of consideration for the contract, that no
estoppel can exist against the assertion of the invalidity of
the stock, and that the defendant is entitled to recover the
amount paid by him from the corporation."
The court then concedes the proposition that under the laws
of Connecticut there was no authority to issue this preferred
stock, but the judge further says "I am not favorably impressed with the doctrine that, as against the assignee or
receiver of an insolvent corporation, the owner of preferred
stock, who has voluntarily subscribed and paid for it, for the
purpose of promoting the scheme, and has received his certificate therefor, and the terms and conditions upon which the
subscription was made have been fully complied with by the
corporation, can recover the amount paid. In Winters v.
Armstrong, 37 Fed. Rep. 508, Judge Jackson guards against
such a broad principle, and it is not in accordance with the
teaching of Scovill v Thayer, 105 U S. 143."
He also says that if defendant can recover an amount fr-om
the insolvent estate in a case where there is no clain of an
unfulfilled condition, it must be upon a theory of the rescission
of the contract, because the stockholder received nothing of
value. He then adds "This rescission must be made within
a reasonable time. In this case -Mr.Banigan paid for his stock
April 2, 1885, and was still a stockholder when the receiver
was appointed, August 9, 1887. I do not think that the preferred stockholder who 'voluntarily creates stock of this kind
-for
this Mr. Banigan virtually did- can hold it for twentyeight months in the hope of dividends, and then, upon finding
the company insolvent, come in as a creditor and receive back
his money " He accordingly refused to allow the claim of
Banigan for the money paid for this stock.

BANIGAN v. BARD.
Opmion of the Court.

Perhaps but little can be added .to what was said by the
judge of the Circuit Court. It may be well to call attention, a
little more pointedly to the fact that -when Mr. Bauigan atteimpted, a- year after the insolvency of the corporation, to
return his stock and demand the money which he had paid for
it and at the. tune he fied this claim as a set-off in the Circuit
.Court, the corporation with which he dealt, and of which he
was in effect the dominant spirit, had ceased to have existence
for any other purpose than winding tip its affairs, and all this
matter had passed into the hands of the receiver, who represented especially- the interests of creditors. It is in the face
of the claim of these creditors, who must. largely lose at any
rate, that Mr. Baigan's claim is to be considered, and we are
of opinion that, having received certificates for this stock, on
which he voted in control of the company, and which increased
his power in regard to that control, and having been the chief
agent in causing the issue of this stock and giving it credit and
currency by his actions, he cannot now be permitted to withdraw the money which he had paid, from the fund out of
which these creditors are to be paid.
The force of this proposition is increased by the length of
time elapsing between the payment of 'the. money and the
twenty-eight months in which Mr. Banigan held this stock,
and voted upon it, and took the chances of its finally being a
valuable investment. As its validity was a question of law,
he must be presumed to have known it as well as anybody
else. The cases 6f Scovill v Thayer, 105 U.-S. 143, and the
very recent case of Aspinwall v Butler, _Pecever of the Pacfi.c lrationalBank of Boston, 13a U. S. 595, while they are not
so precisely analogous to the present case as to be considered
conclusive of it, do yet enforce the general principle, that a
person subscribing for stock under circumstances almost similar to the present, is bound for the obligations which thelaw.
imposes upon the holders of such stock for the benefit of the
creditors of the insolvent corporation. We base our decision
in the present case upon the view that Mr. Banigan, who was
a controlling spirit in the Hayward Rubber Company, was
active in passing the resolution which- authorized the issue of

