OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

writ of mandamus, where there is no other adequate remedy,
may be granted to compel inferior tribunals, corporations and
public officers or agents to perform purely ministerial duties,
in respect to which there is no discretion to be exercised. Rev
Stat. Idaho, § 4977. Such cases do not sustain the proposition
that the judiciary, by means of writs of mandamus operating
upon the officers of legislative bodies, may supervise the making up of the records of the proceedings of those bodies, or
cause alterations to be made in such records as prepared by
the officer whose duty it was to prepare them. Much less do
they justify the court, in a case that does not involve the
private rights of litigants, to determine whether particular
bodies of persons constituted a lawful legislative assembly
The judgment zn each case 's afflrmed.

IN RE LONEY
APPEAL FROM -THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
No. 1118.

Submitted January 21, 1890.-

Decided March 24, 1890.

The courts of a State have no jurisdiction of a complaint for perjury in
testifying oefore a notary public of the State upon P. contested election
of a member of the House of Representatives of the United States, and
a person arrested by order of a magistrate of the State on such a complaint will be discharged by writ of habeas corpus.

THIS was a writ of habeas corpu., granted upon the petition
of Wilson Loney, by the Circuit Court of the United States,
to the police sergeant of the city of Richmond, in the State of
Viro'inia, who justified his detention of the prisoner under a
warrant of arrest from a justice of the peace for that city
upon a complaint charging him with wilful perjury committed
on February 2, 1889, in giving his deposition as a witness before
a notary public of the city in the case of a contested election
of a member of the House of Representatives of the United
States.

IN RE LONEY.
Opinion of the Court.

The Circuit Court discharged the prisoner, upon the ground
that the offence charged against hun was punishable only
under § 5392 of the IRevised Statutes, and was within the exclusive cognizance of the courts of the United States. 38 Fed.
Rep. 101. The respondent appealed to this court.
J&Tandoph'
Tuck-r and Mr R. A. Ayers, Attorney
General of the'State of Virginia, for appellant.
No appearance for appellee.
MR.JUSTicE GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.

By the Constitution, the judicial power of the United States
is vested in the courts of the United States. Art. 3, sect. 1.
By the sta.tutes of the United States, those courts have jurisdiction, exclusive of the courts of the several States, of*"all
crimes and offences cognizable under the authority of the
United States;" Rev Stat. § 711, cl. 1, and the Circuit Courts
of the United States have exclusive cognizance of all such
crimes and offences, except where otherwise provided by law,
the principal exception being where concurrent jurisdiction is
.given to the District Courts of the United States, Rev Stat.
§ 629, el. 20, Act of August 13, 1888, c. 866, § 1, 25 Stat. 431,
and it is declared, by way of greater caution, that nothing contained in the Crimes Act of the United States "shall be held
to take away or impair the jurisdiction of the courts of the
several States under the laws thereof." Rev Stat. § 5328.
The House of Representatives of the United States is made
by the Constitution the judge of the elections, returns and
qualifications of its own members. Art. 1, sect. 5.
Congress has regulated by law the form in which notice of
a contested election may be given and answered, and the time
and manner in which depositions on oath of witnesses in such
cases may be taken and returned to the House of Represenfatives by a judge of any court of the United States, or of a
court of record of any State, or by any mayor or recorder of
a city, or by any register in bankruptcy or notary public, or, if

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the parties so agree, by any officer authorized to take depositions by the laws of the State or of the United States, and
has provided for the punishment of such witnesses failing to
attend and testify after being duly summoned. Rev. Star.
§§ 105-130, Act of March 2, 1887, c. 318, 24: Stat. 445.
Congress has also enacted that every person, having, taken
an oath to testify truly, "before a competent tribunal' officer
or person, in any case in which a law of the United States
authorizes an oath to be administered," who wilfully and contrary to such oaths states any material matter which he does
not believe to be true, is guilty of perjury, and shall be punished by fine and imprisonment. Rev Stat. § 5392.
The laws of Virginia indeed provide that notaries public
shall be appointed by the Governor of the State and may
take "any oath or affidavit required by law, which is not of
such nature that it must be made in court." Virginia Code of
1887, §§ 923, 173. But the oath of a witness in the case of a
contested election of a member of the House of Representatives of the United States is not reqmred by any law of Virginia, bat is an oath authorized to be administered by the laws
of the United States, and by those laws only, and the witness
gives his testimony in obedience to those laws, and not in tne
performance of any duty which he owes to the State in which
his testimony is taken.
Any one of the officers designated by Congress to take tne
depositions of such witnesses, (whether he is appointed by the
United States, such as a judge of a Federal court or a register
in bankruptcy, or by the State, such as a judge of one of its
courts of record, a mayor or recorder of a city, or a notary
public,) performs this function, not under any authority derived
from the State, but solely under the authority conferred upon
hun by Congress, and in a matter concerning the government
of the United States.
Testimony taken with the single object of being returned
to and considered by the House of Representatives of the
United States exercising the judicial power, vested in it by
the Constitution, of judging of the elections of its members,
and taken before an officer designated by Congress as compe-

IN RE LON'-EY.
Opinion of the Court.

tent for this purpose and deriving his authority to do this from
no other source, stands upon the same ground as testimonytaken before any judge or officer of the United States, and
perjury in giving such testimony is punishable in the courts
of the United States. Unsted States v Baiq,9 Pet. 238.
There are cases (the most familiar of which are those of
making and uttering counterfeit money) in which the same ac
may be a violation of the laws of the State, as well as of the
laws of the United States, and be punishable by the judiciary
of either. Fox v Ohio, 5 iHow 410, United States v. .arzgold,
9 How 560, -Moore v. Illinos, 14 How 13, Ex 2 arte Siebold,
100 U. S. .371,390, Cross v Nforth Carolina,132 U S. 131.
But the power of punishing a witness for testifying falsely
in a judicial proceeding belongs peculiarly to the government
in whose tribunals that proceeding is had. It is essential to
the impartial and efficient administration of justice in the
tribunals of the-nation, that witnesses should be able to testify
freely before them, unrestrained by legislation of the State,
or by fear of punishment in the state courts. The administration of justice in the national tribunals would be greatly
embarrassed and impeded if a witness testifying before a court
of the United States, or upon a contested election of a member
of Congress. were liable to prosecution and punishment in the
courts of the State upon a charge of perjury, preferred by a
disappointed suitor or contestant, or instigated by local passion
or prejudice.
A witness who gives his testimony, pursuant to the Constitution and laws of the United States, in a case pending in a
court or other judicial tribunal of the United States, whether
he testifies in the presence of that tribunal, or before any
magistrate or officer (either of the nation or of the State)
designated by act of Congress for the purpose,*is accountable
for the truth of his testimony to the United States only, and
perjury committed in so testifying is an offence against the,
public justice of the United States and within the exclusive
jurisdiction of the courts of the United States, and cannQt
therefore, be punished in the courts of Virginia under the
general provision of her statutes that "if any person, to whom.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

an oath is lawfully administered on any occasion, wilfully
swears falsely on such occasion touching any material matter
or thing," he shall be guilty of perjury Virginia Code of

1887, § 3741.
It has accordingly been held by the Supreme Court of New
Hampshire, in an able opinion of Chief Justice Parker, that
the courts of a State have no jurisdiction of the crime of
perjury committed in an examination before a commissioner
under the United States Bankrupt Act, State v Pike, 15
N. I. 83, by Mr Justice Bradley, affirming a decision of
Judge Erskine, as well as by the Supreme Courts of Tennessee and of Georgia, that the state courts have no jurisdiction
of perjury in testifying before a commissioner of the Circuit
Cofirt of the United States, Exrparte Bridges, 2 Woods, 428,
S. C. nora. Brown v Unzted States, 14 Amer. Law Reg. (N. S.)
566, State v Shelley, 11 Lea (Tenn.) 594, Ross v State,
55 Georgia, 192, and b.y the courts of other States, that they
have no jurisdiction of perjury in making an affidavit under
the acts of Congress relating to the sale of public lands. State
v Adams, 4 Blackford, 146, People v Kelly, 38 California,
145, State v -Zirepatsck,32 Arkansas, 117.
The decisions in the Supreme Courts of Pennsylvania and
of New Hampshire, cited for the appellant, holding that the
judiciary of a State has jurisdiction of perjury committed in
a proceeding for naturalization before a court of the State,
under authority of Congress, tend rather to support than to
oppose our conclusion, for they were put upon the ground
that the proceeding for naturalization was a judicial proceedmg in a court of the State, as it doubtless was. Pump v Commonwealth, 30 Penn. St. 475, State v Whittemore, .50 N. H.
245, A tjratt v Spratt, 4 Pet. 393, 408.
The courts of Virginia having no jurisdiction of the matter
of the charge on which the prisoner was arrested, and he being
in custody, in violation of the Constitution and laws of the
United States, for an act done in pursuance of those laws by
testifying in the case of a contested election of a member of
Congress, law and justice required that he should be discharged
from such custody, and he was rightly so discharged by the

