MINNEAPOLIS RAILWAY CO. v. NMnNESOTA.

467

Argument for Defendant m Error.

MMITEAPOLIS EASTERN RAILWAY COMPANY v.
MINNESOTA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT -OF THE STATE OF MINEISOTA.
No. 1113.

Argued January 13,14, 1690.-Decided March 24,1890.

The case of Chzcago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway Co. v. State of 'A1nnesota, ante, 418, affirmed, on substantially the same state of facts.
The statutory provisions existing m the present case as to the fixing by
the railroad company of reasonable charges for the transportation of
property, did not constitute such a contract with it, as to deprivg the
le-sllature of its power to regulate those charges.

THxs was argued with Ckwago, .Milwaukee & St. Paul Raizway Co. v. State of Minnesota, ante, 418, the two causes presenting substantially the same questions. The case is stated
m the opinion.
-Mr TV C. Goudoy and -H James E. Howe for plaintiff in
error. Mr TV It. .Norsffied a brief for same.
-Mr -HosesE. Clapp and Mr

. TV Childs, for defendant

in error, urged the same considerations as in the previous case,

and further, on the point on which the opinion turns, as
follows
The act in question does not amount to taking property
without due process of law,
We do not think it necessary to follow counsel for plaintiff
in error in their discussion of what is meant by due process of
law Stress is laid upon the fact that, by the terms of the
law underconsideration, no iiotice was given of the contemplated action of the commission. We think counsel have confounded an attempted taking of property by the State with
the simple exercise of a legislative function in the enactment
of a law.
While the order in question was made by the coumunsion,.
yet under the construction of the law placed upon it by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Axgumint for Defendant in Error.

Supreme Court of Minnesota, which construction is binding
upon this court, the act of establishing the rate in question is
a legislative act. In fact it is upon this theory that it had to
be sustained. The-rate as fixed must be considered as fixed
by the legislature and no notice was necessary Had the
legislature by express terms declared that the plaintiff should
charge no rate above one dollar per car, it would not be suggested that such an act would be void because the company
had received no notice of its contemplated passage. If a legislature may regulate rates, and in doing so act through the
medium of a commission, a notice of any contemplated action
by the commission would no more be required, unless required
by the terms of the act itself, than notice of the probable passage of the act.
The operation of the act would not amount to a taking of
private property without compensation.
That this would be the effect of any and all regulations is,
it seems to us, a sufficient answer in itself. Any regulation
that, in the slightest degree, reduces the earnings of a common
carrier must then be said to amount to a taking of property
without compensation, but this court has affirmed the right to
regulate rates when unrestrained by special charter, and until
the case at bar, the right has not been questioned. The right
to regulate necessarily involves the right to reduce the income
of the company
In R]tilroad Commsson Cases, 116 U S. 307, the court

says "General Statutes, regulating the use of railroads in a
state, or fixing maximum rates of charges for transportation,
when not forbidden by charter contracts, do not necessarily
deprive the corporation, owning or operating a railroad within
the State, of its property without due process of law within
the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, nor take away from the corporation
the equal protection of the laws. Munn v ]llinots, 94: U S.
113, 134, 135, Railroad Company v Rtchmond, 96 U S. 521,
29, Spring Tralley Water Works v Schottler, 110 U S. 347,

354."
In Georgia Banking Co. v .Smzth, 128 U. S. 174, 179, the

MIITN-\EA OLIS RAILWAY CO. v. MI'NESOTA.
.Opimnio

469

of the Court.

court says, "It has been adjudged by this court in numerous
instances that the legislature of a state has the power to prescribe the charges of a railroad company for the carriage of
persons and merchandise within its limits, in the absence of
any provision in the charter of the company constituting a
contract vesting in it authority over those matters,, subject to
the limitation that the carriage is not required without reward, or upon conditions amounting to the taking of property
for public use without just compensation, and that what is
done does not amount to a regulation of foreign or interstate
commerce. Stone v. Farmers'Zoan and Tust Co., 116 U. S.
307, 325, 331, .Dow v. Betdelman, 125 U. S. 680."
Mn. JusTIc. BLATCHFORD delivered the opimon of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Minnesota, to review its judgment awarding a peremptory
writ of mandamus against the Minneapolis Eastern Railway
Company, commanding it to comply with the requirements of
the recommendation and order made by the Railroad and
Warehouse Commission of the State of Minnesota, on the 2d
of August, 1887, and to change.its tariff of rates and charges
for handling and switching any car over the lines of its railway in the-city of Minneapolis, regardless of the distance or
the character of the freight in such car, and to substitute
therefor -the -tariff recommended, published and posted bysaid commissions, to wit, the rate of $1.00 for handling and
switching any car over its line of railway in saad city, regardless of the distance or the character of the freight in such car,
'being the rate published by the commission and declared to
be equal and reasonable. The case arose under the same
statute considered in the case of Ch'cago, .filwaukee & St.
PauZ Railway Co. v fin.nesota, just decided, ante, 418.
The Minneapolis Eastern Railway Company was and is a
railroad corporation duly created and orgaized under the
general railroad law of the State of Minnesota, operating one
or more lines of railway m the city of Minneapolis in that
State, and a common carrier engaged m transporting freight

'OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion df the Court.

and property by rail within the limits of that city, and more
particularly engaged in the business of handling and switching cars over its line or lines of railroad within said limits,
and, as such common carrier, enjoying the right to conduct
its business within the State of Minnesota, subject to the provision of section 4, of article 10 of the constitution of that
State, and bound to carry mnerals, agricultural and other
productions and manufactures on equal and reasonable terms.
Prior to the 7th of July, 1887, the company had and maintained in force a schedule of its tariff of rates within the city
of Minneapolis, as follows For handling and switching empty
cars over its lines- of railway within the limits of the city,
$1.25 per car, for handling and switching loaded cars over its
lines of railway within the limits of the city, $1.50 per car;
and prior thereto said schedule of rates had been published by
the company
On the 7th of July, 1887, the Railroad Commission constituted by said act made an order which was served upon the
company, and on the 2d of August, 1887, made a further
order, a notice of which was served on the company in the
following terms
"Whereas, at a regular meeting of the Railroad and Warehouse Commission of the State of Minnesota, held at the office
of said commission, in the city of St. Paul, in said state, on
the 7th day of July last, and pursuant to section 8 of an act
entitled ' An act to regulate common carriers, and creating the
Railroad and Warehouse Commission of the State of Minnesota, and defining the duties of such commission in relation
to common carriers,' approved March 7th, 1887, a notice of
order was then and there made and issued by said commission
and duly served upon you, of which the following is a copy,
namely•
"'Whereas, all .railroad companies owning or operating
terminal or switching facilities at or within the city of Minneapolis, in said State, with the exception of the Chicago,
Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company, pursuant to subdivision (d) of section 8 of an act entitled "An act.to regulate
common carriers, and creating the Railroad and Warehouse

MIMI IEAYOLIS RAILWAY CO. v. M[IMNESOTA.

471

Opinon of the Court.

Commission of the State of Minnesota, and defining the duties
of such commission in relation to common carriers," approved
March 7th, 1887, have filed with this commission copies of
their several schedules of rates and charges for switching cars

on their respective tracks at and within said city, and
whereas it appears from said schedulo that the -rates and
charges made by said companies vary from twenty-flive cents
per car for empty cars to two dollars per car for loaded cars,
and whereas said commission, after due and careful inquiry
and consideration, do find that each and every charge in. excess of one dollar per car for switching within the limits of
said city of Minneapolis is unreasonable and an excessive compensation for the service performed Now, therefore, it is
ordered and determined by this commission, pursuant to theauthority in them vested.by the aforesaid legislative act, that
all such schedules be changed by striking therefrom all
charges or rates in excess of one dollar per car for the switching or transfer thereof and insert in room of the words or
figures stricken out-the words "one dollar" or the appropriate
sign and figure therefor. It is the object and purpose of this
axi4cyto establish. one dollar as the maximum charge forthe
Wltcuing or transfer of any "ar at or within the limits of
said city without regard to distance or the kind of goods or
merchandise with which the car so switched or transferred
may be loaded,'
"And whereas, by the subsequent action of said commission, of which said action you were duly notified by order of
the commission, the said order or notice should not take effect
or be considered t--be of binding force upon you until the
fifteenth day of said month,
"And whereas you have neglected and refused for more
than ten days after and since the fifteenth day of July last to
substitute such tariff of rates or charges or-to adopt the same
as recommended and directed by said commission, as in and
by said notice and order you were recommended and required
to do, and do still so neglect and refuse..
"Now, therefore, we, the said commission; do hereby publi~h and declare the said tariff of rates, namely, one dollar per

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

car for the switching or transfer of any loaded car by you
within the limits\of the said city of Minneapolis, as and to be
the legal, equal and reasonable charge for such switching or
transfer of cars by you, and that the same is now in force and
effect in place of the charges and rate of compensation by you
heretofore charged for such service.
"You, the said railway company, your agents and employes, will act accordingly or answer for a violation of the
section and act to which reference is above made."
On the 10th of January, 1889, the commission, by the attorney general of the State made application in writing to
the Supreme Court of the State to compel the company to
comply with the recommendations made to it by the commission to change its tariff of rates for handling or switching
cars within the city of Minneapolis, and t6 substitute therefor
the tariff recommended by the commission, and to adopt the
rates declared by the commission to be equal and reasonable
for such services. The application set forth the. schedule or
tariff of rates so maintained by the company prior to the 7th
of July, 1887, for switching empty and- loaded cars over its
lines of railway within the limits of the city of Minneapolis,
the finding of the commission, on the 7th of July, 1887, that
such schedule of rates was unequal and unreasonable, and its
order establishing one dollar as the maximum charge for
switching or transferring any car within the limits of the city,
without regard to distance or the kind of goods with which it
might be loaded, that the company had been duly notified of
such action of the commission, and had neglected, for more than
ten days after the 15th of July, 1887, to substitute or adopt the
tariff of charges recommended and directed, by the comnis-.
sion, that the commission had duly posted and published the
tariff declared by it to be equal and reasonable, and that the
company still refused to carry out the recommendation of
the commission so made, published and posted, and continued
to charge the rates so specified as its schedule tariff.
An alternative writ of mandamus was applied for and
issued, commanding the company to adopt the rate of charges
-so declared by the commission to be equal and reasonable for

I INNEAPOLIS RAILWAY CO. v.

IrNESOTA.

473

Opinon of the Court.

.handling and switching cars within the city of Minneapolis,
or to show cause why it had not done so, on the 15th of
January, 1889.
By its return, fled January 21, 1889, the company made
answer to the alternative-writ as follows
"That this respondent was organized as a railway company
under and by virtue of the General Laws of the State of
Minnesota, on or about the 17th day of June, .D. 1878.
"That on or about the 27th day of January, A.D. 1879,
its articles of -association were amended so as to declare and
make the general nature of its business to be the building
and operating of a railway from the city of Minneapolis, ii
the county of Hennepin, and State of Minnesota, to the city
of St. Paul, in the county of Ramsey, in said State, with
branches connecting with any and -l railroads then built or
thereafter to be built or secured or constructed to or into the
said cities or either of them, also branches to mills .and
manufactories in said cities or in either of them, the said railway and branches to be constructed and operated with one
or more tracks and with necessary side-tracks, turn-outs and
connections and all necessary roadways, right of way, depot
grounds, yards, machine shops, warehouses, elevators, stationhouses, structures and buildings, rolling stock, and all other
real estate and personal property necessary or convenient for
the operation and management of said railway
"That the total length of its tracks heretofore constructed
is about three and one-half (3k) miles, and that said tracks are
and at all times have been tvhoLy within the city of Minneapolis.
"That the total cost to this respondent of its -said -system
of railway and*of the equipment thereof is the sum of two
hundred and fifty-three thousand one hundred and-forty-eigh'
dollars and eleven cents ($253,148.11), embracing the followmg items
"For right of way and damage to buildings, one
hundred thousand one hundred and two dollars
and ninety-nine cents
, $100,102 99

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

"For grading and surfacing, nine thousand two
hundred and thirty-seven dollars and sixty-four
cents
"For bridges, docking and trestle, sixty-four thousand seven hundred and six dollars and ninetyfour cents
"For ties, iron and steel, track-laying, crossing,
switches and side-tracks, twenty-nine thousand
twenty dollars and sixty-seven cents
"For buildings, two thousand two hundred and
fifty-two dollars and seventy cents
"For incorporation and legal expenses and engineering, six thousand one hundrel and fifteen
dollars and sixteen ceuts
"For office furniture and track-scales, four hundred and forty-seven dollars and fifty-five cents
"For one (1) locomotive engine and one (1) hand
car, six thousand one hundred and fifty-four
dollars and seventy-seven cents
"And for divers other items, thirty-five thousand
one hundred and mine dollars and sixty-nine
cents

9,237 64
64,706 94
29,020 67
2,252 70
6,115 16
447 55
6,154 77
35.159 69

"That, since the acquisition of tins respondent's said right
of way, the value of real estate m the city of Minneapolis, as
well adjacent to said railway as in said city at large, has increased many fold, and the acquisition of said right of way
would at this time cost many times the amount laid out and
expended therefor by this respondent.
"That but thirty thousand ($30,000) dollars of its capital
stock has ever been issued.
"That on or about, the 1st day of January, A.D. 1879, tins
respondent, being thereto duly authorized by law, made, executed and delivered to Sherburne S. Merrill and William I.
Ferry as mortgagees, in trust to secure the payment of the
bonds hereinafter mentioned, with the interest thereon, a
mortgage or deed of trust, bearing date on that day, whereby
it granted, bargained, sold and conveyed unto the said trustees

MINNEAPOLIS RAILWAY'00. v. MINNESOTA.

4'75

Opinion of the Court.

all its railroad then in course of construction on the west side
of the Mississippi River, being much the greater proportion of
its entire present system, including all the railways, ways,
rights of way, depot grounds and other lands for rights of
way or for railway uses, all tracks, bridges, viaducts, culverts,
fences and other structures, all depots, station-houses, enginehouses, car-houses, freight-houses, wood-houses and other buildings, all shops then held or thereafter to be acquired or.used
-in connection with said railroad or the .business thereof, and
all locomotives, tenders,. cars, rolling stock or equipment, all
machinery, tools, implements, fuel, and materials for constructing, operating, repairing, or replacing said railroad or any part
thereof, or of any part of its equipment or appurtenances then
held or thereafter to be acquired, also all franchises connected
with or relating to said railroad or to the construction, maintenance,, or use thereof' then held or thereafter to be acqured
by .the said respondent, including the franchise to be a corporation, and all and singular the hereditaments thereunto
belonging or in anywise appertainng, and all the real estate,
right, title, interest, property, possession, claims and demands
whatsoever, as well in law as in equity, of the said respondent
--of, m, and to the same and any and every part thereof , which
mortgage or deed of trust expressly provided that the trust
thereby created should not affect any further extension or
branches of said line of railroad, or any property acquired or
to be acquired for use in connection with such extension or
branch, and which said mortgage or deed of trust was recorded
in the office of the register of deeds in and for the said county
of Hennepin, in volume 54 of mortgages, on pages 377 to 387
inclusive.
"That under and by virtue of the said mortgage or deed' of
trust, and pursuant to the tenor thereof, this respondent, on or
about the first day of January, 1879, made and executed in
due form of law, and thereafter negotiated and disposed of one
hundred a d fifty (150) bonds or writings obligatory for the
sum of one thousand ($1000) dollats each, and all of like tenor,
bearing date the 1st day of January, 1879, and payable- in
thirty (30) years after the date thereof, with interest at the

OOTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opumon of the Court.

rate of seven (7) per cent per annum,.payable semi-annually,
on the first days of January and July in each year, upon the
presentation and surrender of coupons thereto respectively
annexed, representing and requiring the payment of each such
instalment of interest, by reason whereof this respondent became liable to pay the sum of ten thousand and five hundred
($10,500) dollars per annum for such interest on its said bonds
so-issued and negotiated, which mortgage is still in full force
and effect and all which bonds and coupons are still outstanding and wholly unpaid.
"That all the proceeds of said stock so issued and all the
proceeds of said bonds so negotiated were used in the construction and equipment of respondent's said railway o
"That all such proceeds were insufficient for that purpose,
and this respondent therefore, from time to time, for that
purpose, effected and further became indebted for further
loans of money, without security therefor, to the amount of
about ninety thousand ($90,000) dollars, all which was used
in the construction and equipment aforesaid.
"That this respondent began the operation of the said railway on or about the 1st day of June, 1879, and has continued
to operate the same at all times hitherto.
"That its whole business now'is, and at all times has been,
the receipt, transportation and delivery, commonly called
switching, -of cars between the tracks of other railway companies and mills, warehouses and industries situated upon its
own lines within said city of Minneapolis.
"That, until the 1st day of September, 1882, it charged for
its services in switching only the sum of one dollar ($1.00) per
loaded car, that on the day last aforesaid it raised its charge
for such service, and has ever since charged and received for
such service the sum of one dollar and fifty cents ($1.50) per
loaded car.
"That the service so rendered by this respondent is of a
character which would otherwise be performed by drays or
wagons, at an expense to patrons very much greater than the
last-mentioned rate of charge of this respondent.
"That the rate of one dollar and fifty cents ($1.50) per

NEAPOLIS RAILWAY CO. v. MINNESOTA.
MI3T

477

Opinion of the Court.

loaded car above stated does not exceed, but is, a fair and
reasonable charge for such service.
" This respondent further says. that from the begining of
the operation of said railway to and including the 30th day
of June, 1887, notwithstanding such increase of rate, the gross
earnings of this respondent were less than the amount of its
operating expenses and of the interest to that date accrued
upon its said mortgage bonds, by the sum of twenty-one thou-sand two hundred and twenty-three dollars and seventy-six
cents ($21,223.76).
"That all the excess of its gross earnings over its operating
expenses has been, from year to year, applied to the repayment
of the aforesaid unsecured indebtedness for moneys used in
construction and equipment and the interest thereon.
"That on the 30th day of June, 1888, there nevertheless remamed unpaid of the indebtedness last mentioned and interest
thereon the sum of twelve thousand two hundred and eleven
dollars and two cents ($12,211.02), of which last-mentioned
sum, by. like application of such excess, the sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) was paid. on or before the 30th day of
-November, 1888, then still leaving a balance of such unsecured
indebtedness and of the interest thereon, in the sum of two
thousand two hnndred and eleven dollars and two cents
($2211.02).
"That, by reason of such application of the excess of gross
earnings over operating expenses, no interest whatever has
ever been hitherto paid, and this respondent has had no funds
wherewith to pay any interest whatever upon its aforesaid
bonded indebtedness, but that the same has accumulated and
remains unpaid to the amount of one hundred and five thousand ($105,000) dollars.
"This respondent further says, that, in the year ending on
the 30th day of June, 1888, its last-completed fiscal year, it
transported over its lines twenty-seven thousand two hundred
and seventy-two (27,272) loaded cars, which was its entire business, .and that it received as compensation therefor, at the rate
of one dollar and fifty cents ($1.50) per car, the sum of forty
thousand nine hundred and eight ($40,908) dollars, which lastmentioned sum constituted its entire receipts for that year.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

"That it therewith paid its operating expenses for the same
year, amounting to twenty-two thousand five hundred and
eighty-three dollars and seventy-eight cents ($22,583.78), and
paid the whole residue thereof on account and in reduction of
its unsecured indebtedness aforesaid and the interest thereon.
"That the said year was an unusually prosperous one, and
was the first year in the history of this respondent when it
earned a sum equal to the amount of its operating expenses
and one year's interest upon its said bonded indebtedness.
"That, induced by its gradual reduction and payment as
aforesaid of its said unsecured indebtedness, the creditors of
this respondent for the said uisecured indebtedness have hitherto, with the assent and at the request of this respondent, as
the said interest coupons have from time to time become due,
advanced the amounts thereof to the holders of said coupons,
and thereupon and thereby taken the same up from such
holders by way of payments for the honor and for the protection of the credit of this respondent, in, order to avoid any
foreclosure on the part of the holders of said bonds by reason
of default in the payment of any such coupons, and that so,
and not otherwise, has this respondent hitherto been able to,
avoid such foreclosure.
"The respondent further says, that a portion of itq said railroad upon the west side of said river, about one thousand and
two hundred (1200) feet in length, is upon wooden trestlework, which is now nearly ten (10) years old, and about one
thousand one hundred (1100) feet in length of which is so
decayed and worn that the same must be almost entirely renewed and rebuilt within the current year 1889, if the operation of said railroad is to be continued.
"That this respondent has no source of revenue to meet the
expense of rebuilding other than its earnings.
"That, if said trestle is rebuilt of wood, the cost thereof will
exceed the sum of fifteen thousand ($15,000) dollars, and if of
iron or steel will exceed the sum of eighty thousand ($80,000)
dollars.
"The respondent further says, that if the order of the relators set forth in said alternative writ had been forthwith and

TII-N-EAPOLIS R AILWAY CO. v. MINNESOTA.

479

Opimon of the Court.

hitherto enforced, and if this respondent had leceived but one
($1.00) dollar per car for the service rendered during its last
fiscal year aforesaid, the entire receipts from all its business in
said year would have been but twenty-seven thousand two
hundred and seveiity-two ($27,272.00) dollars, winch would
have left this respondent but four thousand six hundred and
eighty-eight dollars and twenty-two ($4688.22) cents wherewith to pay the residue of its unsecured indebtedness aforesaid,
then exceeding twelve thousand dollars ($12,000), or to pay
the sum of ten thousand and -fivehundred dollars ($10,500) interest accrued upon the said bonded debt, leaving nothing for
extraordinary repairs, and nothing for renewals of trestles,
bridges, or rails.
"That this respondent is the owner of all the railway used
in conducting its.said business, subject only to the lien of said
mortgage.
"That it is entitled to the possessldn and beneficial use
thereof to the same extent as the owners of other property
are entitled to the beneficial use thereof, that it has the right
to fix the price for the use of its property by others, and at the
rate at wnch it will do business for others, subject only to the
qualification that the rates so fixed shall be equal and. reasonable.
"That the rate of one dollar and fifty cents ($1.50) per car
so fixed and collected by it as aforesaid is fair, just, equal and
reasonable, that the rate of one dollar ($1.00). per car specified in said order of relators. is grossly unfair, unjust, unequal
and unreasonable, and beyond the jurisdiction and power of
the said relators in that behalf.
"That the said recommendation of the said relators set forth
in said alternative writ, by means- whereof they seek to compel
a reduction in the rate fixed by this respondent from one dollar
and fifty cents ($1.50) per car to one dollar ($1.00) per car and
a consequent loss in revenue of one-third (J) of its entire earnings, was made by said relators -without notice to this respondent, and without giving it any opportunity to be heard in its
own behalf,, and. that for that reason the said recommendation
is against the. common rights of American citizens and is in

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

violation of the Constitution of the United States, and is wholly
void.
"And this respondent further says; that if the said order be
enforced by the mandate of this court, it will take the property
of this respondent against its will, without due process or any
process of law, and in violation of section 1 of article 14 of. the
Constitution of the United States, that, if the said order of
the said relators be enforced against this respondent, and if its
charge be reduced to one dollar ($1.00) per car, this respondent
will be thereby deprived of the ability to pay the interest upon
its said bonded indebtedness, as it has, with the consent of the
State of Minnesota, contracted to do, and that any law of
the said State, or any order of the said relators, or any judgment of this court, preventing the respondent from performing
its said contract, when without such law, order, or judgment
it might have performed the same, or might thereafter perform the same, is and will be a law, order and judgment impairing the obligation of a contract, and is and will be m
violation of section 10 of article 1 of the Constitution of the
United States, and is and will be wholly void.
"This respondent, further making return, says, that the
said order of the said relators, set forth in said alternative
writ, will, if enforced, deprive it of its property for the use
and benefit of private citizens, without making any compensation unto it as the owner thereof, in violation of section 13 of
article I of the constitution of the State of Minnesota, and is
and will be wholly void.
"And this respondent further making return, says that, by
the provisions of section 4 of article 10 of the constitution of
said State, this respondent, being a common carrier, enjoying
the right of way in pursuance of the provisions of the said
constitution is bound to carry the mineral, agricultural and
other productions of the people of said State on equal and
reasonable terms, that it has always so carried the same
whenever tendered or offered to it for that purpose, that the
terms offered by it have always been equal and uniform to all
persons and have always.been reasonable in amount.
"And this respondent avers, that it is entitled to have and

-MINNEAPOLIS RAILWAY 00. v. MIlNIESOTA.

481

Opumon of the Court.

receive reasonable compensation for the serviceit is so bound
to render, and that the said order of said relators, set forth in
said alternative writ, assumes to fix -a-.grossly inadequate and
unreasonable compensation therefor, is in violation of the constitutional provision last mentioned, and is wholly null and

void.
"That, by reason of the matters hereinbefore set forth, this
respondent has not complied, and-ought not to be by the mandate of this honorable court compelled to comply, with the
requirements of the recommendation and order made on the
2d day of August, 1887, and in said alternative writ set forth.
"Wherefore this respondent prays the judgment of the
court that the said alternative writ may be discharged and
that this respondent may be hence dismissed."
On a hearing on the .return, on the 29th of January, 1889,
the company asked leave to make proof of the matters set
forth in the.return, af such time as the court might appoint,
but the request -was denied; and the company excepted. On
the motion of the attorney general, judgment was then entered
on the application, the alternative writ and the return, for the
issuing of a peremptory writ of mandamus, to review which
judgment this writ of error is sued out.
The Supreme Court rendered, an opinion stating that, as the
case was similar to that f The State ex rel. The Railroadand
WIarehouse Oommsssson v The Chlwago, Milwaukee c St.
PaUl Railway Co., before decided by it, the decision would
follow the decisionin that case and upon the reasons stated in
the opinion filed therein.
The views and considerations applicable to that case, Chtcago, .ilwaukee. & St. Paul-" ailway Co. v 3finnesota, which
has just been decided by us, .ante, 418, apply with even
greater force to the pfesent case, as appears by the return
above set forth at length.
The Minneapolis Eastern Railway company was organized
'as a corporation in June, 1878, under title 1, chapter 34: of
the General Statutes of Minnesota. By § 2 of an act of the
legislature, approved March 3, 1869, (Laws of 1869, c. 78, 95,)
it was provided "that any railroad company or 2crporation
vOL. c-xx=-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

organized under the title to whibh this is an amendment, may
charge and receive for the transportation of passengers and
freight on their road such reasonable rate as may be from
time to tne fixed by said corporation or prescribed by law"
By § 8 of chapter 103 of th-e General Laws of Minnesota of
1875, it was provided as follows. "No railroad company shall
charge, demand or receive from any person, company, or corporation an unreasonable price for the transportation of persons or property, or for the hauling or storing of 'any freight,
or for the use of its cars, or for any privilege or service afforded by it in the transaction of its business as a railroad corporation." We do not perceive that these statutory provisions
.constitute such a contract with the corporation as to the fixing
by it of its rates of charges, as to deprve the legislature of its
power to regulate those charges.
The decision of the commission inthe present case appears to
be merely a general finding that each and every charge in excess of $1.00 per car for switching within the limits of the city
of Minneapolis is an unreasonable and excessive compensation
for the service performed. The commissmon states that it made
such finding after due and careful inquiry and consideration,
but it does not appear that the Minneapolis Eastern Railway
Company had-any prior notice of any hearing at which such
finding was made or any opportunity of being heard in regard
thereto, while it does appear that it asked leave of the court
to make proof of the matters so set up in its return, that its
request was denied, and that it excepted to such demal, and
itfurther appears by its return that it claimed that the rate of
$1.00 per car would be so unfair, unequal, unjust and unreasonable as to take its -property against its will without due process of law
For the reasons set forth in the other case just decided, ante,
418,
The udygment of the Suvpreme Court of .Minnesota, rendered
Februai-y 27, 1889, awardinga peremptory writ of manda4mus aganst the railway company, m reversed, and the
case w,remanded to that court with an imnstruction to take
further proceedings not inconsmstent with the opmwn of
thts court.

