KENADAY v. EDWAIRDS.
Statement of the Case.

IENAIDAY v. EDWARDS.
GREEN v. EDWARDS.
APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COURT'OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Nos. 1238, 1237. Submitted January 9, 1890.-Decided March 3, 1890.

The value of the property in litigation determines the jurisdiction of this
court.
lit an appeal from a decree removing a trustee of real estate and denying
him commissions, the jurisdiction of this court is to be determined, not
by the amount of the commissions only, but by the value of the real
estate as well.
The Supreme Court of the District of Columbia at special term confirmed
a sale of real estate by a trustee without notice having been given to
interested parties. Those parties subsequently appeared, and on their
motion, after notice and hearing, the sale was vacated and the trustee at
whose request it was made was removed, Held, that an appeal lay from
that decree to the general term of the court.
A trustee of real estate, after a court of equity, on his own motion, has
discharged him and relieved him of his trust and appointed another
trustee in his place, has no remaining interest in the property which he
can convey by deed.
A trustee of real estate,-appointed by the court, subject to its control and'
order, cannot give good title to the trust estate by a deed made without
the consent cf the court.

MARtY E. AoPnERsow, by clause 6 of her last will and testament, gave, devised and bequeathed to her nephews, Chapman
*aupin and Robert W Maupin, of Virginia, in fee simple,
lot five hundred and eleven, with the improvements thereon,
on F Street, between Fifth and Sixth Streets, in the city of
Washington, to be held (using the words of the will) "by them
and the survivor of them, and by such person or persons as
may be appointed to execute the trusts declared by this my
will, 'by the last will and testament of such survivor,, or by
other instrument or writing executed for that purpose by such
survivor, but in trust, nevertheless, to manage and control the
same and to take the rents, profits and income thence arising
and to pay the one-half of the net-amount received from such

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

rents, profits and income monthly, quarterly, half-yearly, or
yearly, according to the discretion of my said trustees, to my
daughter, Susan W Edwards, wife of John S. Edwards, for
and during her natural life, to her own sole and separate use,
free from the control of her present or any future husband
and from responsibility for his debts or engagements, it being
my design that the income thus provided for my said daughter
shall not be assigned, disposed of, or pledged in advance or by
way of anticipation, but shall be employed to supply her
current wants."
Upon the death of said Susan W Edwards, the above
moiety of net income, profits and rents was, by clause I, to be
invested by the trustees and held by them in trust for the
sole and separate use of the testator's -granddaughter, Susan
W Edwards, during her life, and upon her death that moiety,
with its accumulations, was to be distributed by the trustees
among the children and the surviving descendants of the
children of the granddaughter per stirpes. If the granddaughter died without children or descendants living at her
death, this moiety and its accumulations were to belong to the
testator's great-granddaughter, Alice Tyler, subject to certain
conditions, which need not be here stated.
The remaining moiety of the net income, rents and profits of
the property was, by clause 8, devised to the same trustees in
trust for the sole and separate use of the testator's greatgranddaughter, Alice Tyler, with power to invest such income,
rents and profits as in their best judgment was proper, and
with authority to her, by last will, to appoint the said moiety
and its accumulations to and among her children and their
descendants surviving her, in such proportions as she might
think fit. If she died, without making a will, then the property
was to be distributed among her children and their surviving
descendants in fee simple and per .tih es. In case she died
without children or surviving descendants of such children,
thenthe net income, rents andprofits of the estate were to go
to her mother, 1Ifary M. Tyler, a granddaughter of the testator,
during her life, and upon the death of the latter the next of kin
of Alice Tyler were to take the estate and its accumulations.

KENADAY v. EDWARDS.
Statement of the Case.

The will further provided. "I give, devise and bequeath all
my other property whereof I may die seized, possessed or'
entitled, of whatsoever kind, real, personal or mixed,
unto the said Chapman Maupin and Robert W Maupm and
the survivor of them, and such person or persons as may be
appointed to execute the trusts of this my will, by the last
wili and testament of such survivor, or by other instrument of
writing executed for that purpose by surh survivor, in trust,
to hold the same for the purposes and upon the trusts hereinbefore declared in .the sixth, seventh and eighth clauses of this
my will in respect to the real estate and the accumulations
therein named, and I do hereby confer upon my said trustees
full power and authority, at his or their discretion, from time
to time to sell by public or private sale and to convey to the
purchaser or purchasers all or any part of the trust property
in this will devised and bequeathed to my said trustees, and
to receive, grant acquittance for, and reinvest the proceeds of
such sales, and I do expressly relieve purchasers of such propeity from the obligation to see to the application of the purchase-money"
Robert W Maupin died m 1876, leaving Chapman Maupin
the sole surviving trustee.
-Chapman Maupiri having expressed a desire to, surrender his
trust, the present suit was brought in the court below by
Susan W Edwards, widow and by Alice Tyler, by her next
friend, for an accounting m respect to the rents and profits of
the trust estate, and for the appointment by the court of a
new trustee. After answer by the surviving trustee, the cause
was referred to an auditor for the statement of the accounts.
The report of the auditor, showing the amounts in the hands
of the trustee to be accounted for, was approved. And it was
adjudged by the court, March 29, 1882, that the fee-simple
estate in the lands devised by the will of Mary E. Macpherson
to Chapman Maupin and Robert Maupin, upon certain truststherein declared, " be, and the same is hereby, taken out of the
said Chapman Maupmn, the survivor of the said co-trustees,.and
vested in James B. Green, of the city of Baltimore, together
with all the rights, powers, duties and obligations incident

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
*Statement of the Case.

thereto under the said last will and testament, and it is further
adjudged, ordered and decreed that all the trusts vested by
the said will in the said co-trustees and surviving to the said
Chapman Maupin be, and they are hereby, abrogated and repealed as to him and conferred upon the said James B. Green,
subject to the terms of the said last will and testament, and
that the retiring trustee pay over and deliver to his successor
hereby appointed all money, books, papers and other property
belonging or relating to the said trust estate.
"And it is further adjudged, ordered and decreed that the
said James B. Green, trustee, as herein provided, shall file
with this court, before any sale of the said real estate under
the powers contained in the said will, a bond in the sum of
eight thousand dollars, with a surety or sureties, to be approved
by this court, for the faithful performance of his duty in connection with the said sale, and that he shall at all times be
subject to the control and order of this court m matters touching the trust, and that the costs of these proceedings are payable out of the principal of the trust estate."
It having been suggested to Chapman Maupm- presumably
by Green- that the decree in this cause could not be fully
carried into effect without a conveyance by him of the trust
property, with all the powers of the surviving trustee, to his
successor, he executed, March 3, 1888, to Green a deed, granting and assigning to him and to his successors all the grantor's
right, title and estate in and to the property devised to the
grantor by the will of Mary E. Macpherson, "in trust for the
uses and purposes set out in said will, and coupled with all
the powers thereby conferred on the trustees therein named."
On the '7th of March, 1888, Green, as trustee, reported, in
this cause, a sale he had made, through agents, on the 31st
of January, 1888, to A. M. Kenaday, of the lot and improvements on F Street for $11,000 in cash to be paid on the ratification of the sale. While he expressed a belief that his
powers under the will were sufficient to enable hn to execute
a valid deed to the purchaser, he was unwilling to do so
without the approval of the court. The sale was thereupon.
on the day this. report was made, ratified and confirmed by

KENADAY v. EDWARDS.
Statement of the Case.

the court, but, so far as the record shows, without notice of
the sale or of the above application to the court being given
to either of the present plaintiffs or to any one representing
them.
Green and Kenaday, upon the petition of the plaintiffs,
were required, March 17, 1888, to show cause, within a time
named, why the order ratifying and confirming the sale to
Kenaday should not be set aside as having been improvidently
made, the sale itself y. cated, and Green removed from the
office of trustee. This order was served upon Green, March
19, 1888, and Kenaday filed an affidavit, alleging that he
purchased in good faith, and insisting upon his right to hold
the property His affidavit shows that the sale was consummated on the '7th of March, 1888, the day on which. it was
approved by the court.
By an order made March 23, 1888, Green was directed to
pay into the registry of the court, on or before March 28,
1888, all the funds of every kand and description in his hands
as trustee in this cause, and to make answer within one week.
:e filed an answer on the 29th of March, 1888, in which he
denied that the order confirming the sale was improvidently
made, or that the price paid for the property was inadequate.
He rested his authority to make the sale upon the decree
appointing hun trustee, and upon the deed made to him by
Chapman Maupin.
All the prayers of the petition of the plaintiffs, fied March
17, 1888, were, upon final hearing, denied. From that order
the plaintiffs prosecuted an appeal to the general term.
In pursuance of an order of court, Green deposited in its
registry one bond of the city of Richmond, Virginia, numbered 67, and standing in his name as trustee, and also $4921.22
in cash. The last-named sum was, by an order passed May 23,
1888, directed to be invested in notes, secured upon real estate,
and, until the court otherwise directed, the interest accruing
upon the above bond was directed to be paid to the plaintiffs
or to their authorized attorney, and not to Green.
Notwithstanding these orders, Green collected the interest
upon the bond of the city of Richmond, and paid it to brokers

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

m discharge of his personal indebtedness to them. He was,
therefore, ordered, July 5, 1888, forthwith to pay into the
registry of the court the whole of the interest upon that bond
accrued and payable on the 2d of July, 1888. He subsequently moved to rescind that order. And Kenaday filed his
petition, in general term, praying that the appeal from the
decree in special term be dismissed for want of jurisdiction..
Upon final hearing in the general term it was adjudged
that the order of March 7, 1888, confirming the sale by Green
be set aside, that the sale itself be vacated, that Green be removed from his office and denied commissions as, trustee, that
he be required to pay into the registry of court the full sum
received by him as the price of the property referred to in his
report, and all other money, stock, certificates of deposit, and
evidences of indebtedness received- or held by him as trustee
under his appointment in this cause, and that the cause be
remanded to the court in special term to ascertain the amount
to be paid by him, and to appoint a trustee in his place.
From that decree separate appeals have been prosecuted
by Kenaday and Green.
Yr George F Appleby and Mr CaZderon Carlislefor Kenaday, appellant.
-Mr H. 0
appellant.

Claughton and Ar Cazenove G Lee for Green,

Yr Leagh Ronznson and Mr JHenry Wise Garnett for
appellees.
MR. JusTice. tHARLAI, after stating the above facts, delivered
the opinion of the court.

The appellees have moved to dismiss each of these appeals
upon the ground that the value of the matter in dispute is not
sufficient to give this court jurisdiction, and with the motions
to disiuss was joined a motion to affirm bfbe decree as to each
appelhnt. Both motions to cismiss are overruled. As to
Kenaday, the decree denies his right to property of which he

KENADAY v.. EDWARDS.
Opinon of the Court.

claims to be the owner, and which is of the value of eleven
thousand dollars. He paid that sum for it in cash to Green as
trustee. It is true that there are funds in the registry of the
court below, which, in the event of the affirmance of the
decree, can be paid over to him, and he be thus far reimbursed
for w hat he paid to Green on the purchase of the property
But we think that the value of the specific property which
is in litigation: must determine the jurisdiction of this court.
And the same principle must control the right of Green to
appeal. It cannot be said that his right to commissions as
trustee constitutes the whole matter in dispute between him
and the appellees. He claims, as trustee, the right to hold
and control the proceeds of the sale made to Kenaday The
order removing him as trustee involves his ownership and control of the trust estate for the objects expressed in tfie will,
and, therefore, the value of that estate is the value of the
matter in dispute for the purposes of an appeal by him.
We pass to the consideration of the case upon its merits.
It is contended by the appellants that the general-term cannot exercise any jurisdiction in equity unless, (1) a suit or proceeding or motion be ordered by the court holding the special
-term, to be heard by the general term in the first instance ; or
(2) a motion be -filed in a suit that by the rules of the general
term is designated as an enumerated motion, or (3) an appeal
by a party aggrieved be taken from an order, judgment or
decree of the special term which inrvolves the merits of the
action or proceeding The argument is As the application
to set aside the.order confirming the sale to Kenaday was
heard and determined in special term, as such application
could not be regarded as an enumerated motion, as an application to reopen the decree of confirmation was addressed to
the discretion of the court, and was not appealable, and, for
that reason, did not involve the merits of the proceeding, and
as there was no appeal from the order confirming the sale, the
general term was without jurisdiction to review the order of
the special term refusing to set aside the previous order confirming the sale.
This argument is based upon a misconception of the object

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

and scope of the proceeding instituted by appellees on the 17th
of March, 1888. By their petition filed on that day they
assailed, as fraudulent, the sale made by Green to Kenaday,
and asked that the order confirming it be set aside, and Green
removed from the trusteeship. Upon that petition Green
and Kenaday were ruled to show cause why the order of
March 7, 1888, ratifying and confirming the sale, should not
be set aside, the sale itself vacated, and the trustee removed.
They both.appeared to that petition, Kenaday by affidavit,
insisting upon his right to hold the property, and Green by
formal answer. The case was heard in special term upon this
petition, and it was ordered that all of its prayers be denied.
From that order the petitioners appealed to the general term.
It was clearly an order involving the merits of the proceeding,
because, unless reversed or modified, it sustained the sale to
Kenaday, confirmed his right to hold the property as against
the appellees, and held Green in the position of trustee. It was
not an appeal simply from an order refusing to set aside the
decree of confirmation, but one that involved the integrity
of the order confirming the sale, and, therefore, the merits of
the whole case made by the petition. As said by Mr. Justice
Merrick, in the opinion delivered by him when the court
below overruled a petition for rehearing" "It isapparent that
in this case the most substantial rights of the parties were
involved. Here is an application at the same term at which
an order is passed ratifying a sale, which being passed and not
appealed from or corrected in any other mode, would definitively settle the rights of the parties and deprive the petitioners
absolutely and forever of a title to real estate, by the conversion
of the realty into a sum of money, whether the full or an inadequate price for the value of the land need not be considered."
The next contention of the appellant Kenaday isthat be is
a bonajfde purchaser for value of this property from. a trustee
who had full power, under the will creating him trustee, in
connection with the deed to him from Chapman Maupin, the
surviving trustee, to sell and convey, and that his right to
hold thaeproperty cannot be affected unless there was such
inadequacy of price as indicated collusion between hun and

KENADAY v. EDWARDS.
Opimon of the Court.

the trustee. It may be that the surviving trustee, under the
broad powers of sale given by the will, could in his discretion
have sold this property if he had not surrendered his position
as trustee, and if the title had not, by the decree of the court
been taken out of him. And it may be that it was competent
for him, while holding the trusteeship, to transfer to some one
else, by a written instrument, the powers the will gave him.
But he had not exercised any. such powers prior to the decree
of March 29, 1882, divesting him of title, and substituting
Green in his place as trustee. After that date he had no connection with the trust estate, and his powers as trustee ceased.
That he had the right to surrender his trust, and that it was
competent for a court of equity to appoint another person to
take the title to the trust property, cannot, in our opinion, be
successfully questioned. But the order appointing a new
trustee expressly declared that he should at all times be subject to the control and order-of the court touching the trust.
His subsequent sale, therefore, of the property was subject to
confirmation or rejection by the court. le could not pass the
title without its consent. The deed from Chapman Maupm,
after he had ceased to be trustee, did not add to Green's
powers, or place him or the trust estate beyond the control of
the court which appointed him.
It results, from what has been said, that the rights acquired
by Kenaday, under his purchase from Green, were subject to
the power of the court to ratify or disapprove the sale. The
order approving the sale was improvidently passed, because
made without notice to the beneficial owners of the property,
who were entitled to its income, and who were before the
court for the protection of their rights. The confirmation
was obtained by the trustee with knowledge that the appellees, if notified of the application to the court, would oppose
its ratification.
Under all the circumstances disclosed by the record - and
which it will serve no useful purpose to state in detail-we
are of opinion that the court below did not err in setting aside
the confirmation of the sale, vacating the sale itself, and removing the trustee .without allowing him any commissions.
Afflvrmed
The decree below is in all particulars

