OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

LOUISIANA, ex rel. THE NEW YORK GUARANTY
AND INDEMNITY COMPANT, v. STEELE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 140. Argued January 23, 1890.-Decided March 10, 1890.

The auditor of the State of Louisiana was sued in his official capacity, in
order to compel nim, in that capacity, to act to raise a tax, authorized
by a former law, but contrary to subsequent legislation, and to the
present laws of the State; Held, it was a suit against the State.

TmE case is stated in the opinion.
Xr William Ale
tiff in error.

Butler and Afr V

W Howe for plain-

-Mr B. J Sage and Mt Alexander Porter .forse for defendant in error. .XP T -H. Rogers, Attorney General of Louisiana, filed a brief for the same.

MR. JuSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case arose upon a petition filed in the Civil District
Court for the Parish of Orleans in February, 1884, by The
New York Guarantyaid Indemnity Company, a corporation
of'New York, as retors, in the name of the State of Louisiana, for a mandamu to compel Allen Jumel, the auditor of
public accounts of the State, to proceed under a certain act of
the legislature, passed March 8, 1869, to require the several
sheriffs throughout the State to levy a tax sufficient to pay
the interest due on the state bonds authorized to be issued by
said act in aid of the Mississippi and Mexican Gulf Ship Canal
Company Jumel having been succeeded in office by Oliver
B. Steele, the latter, on application of the relators, was substituted as defendant by order of the court. Steele, in answer
to the petition, set up, amongst other things, that taxation is
an act of sovereignty which can only be performed by the
legislative department of the government, that by the present

N. Y GUARANTY-CO. v. STEELE.
Opinion of the Court.

constitution and laws of Louisiana, the defendant, as auditor,
has no power to raise said tax, that the act of 1869, referred
to, has been repealed by an act No. 3, passed in 1874, and
that by another act, No. 55, of 1874, the respondent and all
other officers .of the State are prohibited from complying with
the mandamus, and deprived of all power and authority to
assess, collect, or enforce the payment of the tax asked for by
the relator, and the court is prohibited from entertaining jurisdiction of the suit.
The 7th section of the act of 1869, which the relators seek
to have executed, is as follows
"SEC. 7. Be st further enacted, etc. That m order to provide a fund for the semi-annual payment of interest upon the
bonds issued in accordance with this act, and the final
redemption of said bonds, should the Mississippi and Mexican
Gulf Ship Canal Company fail to meet the obligations set
forth in the fourth and sixth ,ctions of this act, when the
deficit in interest .to the year 1879 (one thousand eight hundred and seventy-nine), or the deficit and the annual instalment of thirty thousand dollars ($30,000) from that date to
the final redemption of said bonds, shall have reached the sum
of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000), and us often
thereafter as the said deficit shall have reached that sum, the
auditor is hereby directed to determine, by accurate calculation, what rate of taxation on the total assessed yalue of all
movable and immovable property in the State will be sufficient for the purpose of paying said deficit in interest or
annual instahnents, or both, and it shall also be his duty to
notify the. several sheriffs and tax collectors of the rate of
taxation as ascertaIned and fixed for the purpose aforesaid,
and said tax, as ascertained and fixed, is hereby levied upon
all the movable and immovable property that may be assessed
in this State,, and it ,shall be the duty of the several sheriffs
and tax collectors to collect said tax,. and the collection of the
same sball be enforced as the laV provides, or may hereafter
provide, for the collection of taxes."
There -is~no question but that, by constitutional and legislative enactment of the State of Louisiana, the above provisions

