SCHIaEYER v. SCOTT.
Syllabus.

character, and like every non-negotiable paper, whoever takes
it does so -subject to its equities and burdens, and though
ignorant of such equities and burdens his ignorance dbes not
relieve the paper therefrom, or enable him to hold it discharged therefrom. It is objected that upon the face of this
certificate it is nowhere stated that "1George H. Hammond
& Company" is a corporation. While this is not expressly
stated, it clearly appears, and even if it were not so, the
certificate is non-negotiable paper, and the party had, no right
to deal with it as though it were otherwise. He'takes it sub3ect to the burdens that in fact rested upon it
Technical matters are suggested by counsel, but we deema it
unnecessary to notice them. The circuit judge unquestionably,
as appears from the record, ruled upon the substantial question
considered by us. We think his ruling erroneous, and the
case must therefore be reversed. That this lien of a corporation may be waived cannot be doubted. _YationaZ Bank:
v. Watsontown Bank, 105 U. S. 217, 221.

Perhaps when all

the facts are developed, as they can be on the new trial,
matters may be disclosed sufficient to establish a waiver; but
mere ignorance on the part of the purchaser of the fact of the
existence of the lien does not destroy it. It constitutes.-no
waiver on the part of the corporation.
Judgment reversed, and the case remandecdfor a new trial.

SCHREYER v. SCOTT.
APPEAI' FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IEW YORK.
No. 197. Argued January 31,1890. -Decided

March 24,1890.

In determining the rules applicable to conveyances of -real estate from a
husband to his wife, reference should be had not only to'the decisions of
this court, but also to' those of the state where the parties lived, and
where the transactions took place.
The rule obtains in New York, and is recognized by this court, that even a

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Citations for Appellant.
voluntary conveyance from husband to wife is good as against subsequent creditors, unless it was made with the intent to defraud such subsequent creditors; or, unless there was secrecy in the transaction, by
which knowledge of it was withheld from such creditors who dealt with
the grantor, upon the faith of his owning the property transferred, or,
unless the transfer was made with a view of entering into some new and
hazardous business, the risk of which the grantor intended should be
cast upon the parties having dealings with him in the new business.
When real estate is acquired by a husband in his own name by the use of
the separate property of his wife, a subsequent conveyance of it by him
to her is, not a voluntary conveyance, but the transfer of the legal title to
the equitable owner.

Li EQUrrY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

Mr Frederc _R. Coudert for appellant. ir A. 0 Salter
filed a brief for same, citing Allen v Xiassey, 17 Wall. 351,
Carr v Breese, 81 N. Y 584, Phomrni= Bank v Stafford, 89
N. Y 405, Cole v Tyler, 65 N. Y 73, Dunlap v Hlawkins, 59
N. Y 342, Wickes v Clarke,8 Paige, 161, Tan Vyck v Seward,
I Edw Ch. 327, IWallace v Penfield, 106 U S. 260, Hinde v
Longworth, 11 Wheat. 199, Clark v illian, 103 U. S. 766,
Smith v Vodges, 92 U. S. 183, Graham v 1ailroad Co., 102
U. S. 148, Horback v Hill,112 U. S. 144, Pepperv Carter,11
Missouri, 540, Payne v Stanton, 59 Missounri, 158, Ierow v
Witmarth, 9 Allen, 382, S. C. 83 Am. Dec. 701, Pratt v
Curtis, 2 Lowell, 87, Herrng v Richards,1 McCrary, 570,
_Dygert v. Remerrschntder,32 N. Y 629, Todd v Avelson, 109
N Y 316, Jfatthaz v Heather, 57 Maryland, 483, JKimble v
Smith, 95 Penn. St. 69, Harlanv ilfaglaughlin, 90 Penn. St.
293, Curtis v Foo, 47 N. Y 301 , Phillps v. Wooster, 36
N. Y 412, Walter v. Lane, 1 MacArthur, 275, Claflin v.
.Mess, 30 N. J Eq. (3 Stewart) 11, Babcock v Eckler, 24 N.
Y 623, lMedsker v Bonebrake, 108 U S. 66, Baker v Gilman, 52 Barb. 26, Reed v Woodman, 4 Maine, 400 , Lehmberg v Biberstin, 51 Texas, 457, Jifonroe v. Smith, 79 Penn.
St. 459; Herrzng v Richards, 3 Fed. Rep. 439, Pell v
Tredwell, 5 Wend. 661, Nippe's Appeal, 75 Penn. St. 472,
empner v Churchill, 8 Wall. 362, Fuller v Brewster, 53
Maryland, 361, Washband v Wash band, 27 Connecticut, 431,
,eward v lJackson, 8'Cowen, 430.

SCHREYER v. SCOTT.
Opunon of the Court.

Mr T X2W.
Tyng, for appellee, cited Dudley v Ezston, 104
U. S. 99, Warren v -Moody, 122 U. S. 132, Adams v Collier,
122 U. S. 382; Young v Rermans, 66 N. Y 374, Ca0penter
v. Roe, 10 N. Y. 227, King v Wilcox, 11 Paige, 589, Savage
v. .Murphy, 34 N. Y 508, . C. 90 Am. Dec. 733, Smith v.
Vodges, 92 U. S. 183, Case v Phe ps, .39 N. Y 164, Dunn v.
Hornbeck, 72 N. Y 80, Wallace v Penfield, 106 U S. 260,
-Hcorback v. Hill, 112'U. S. 144, Blennerhasset v iS&erman,
105 U S. 100; Schmsdt v Schmsdt, 48 N. Y Superior Ct.
520, Lent v. Howard, 89 N. Y 169, Ada'tr v Lott, 3 Hill,
182, Coleman v Burr,"93 N. Y 17, Reynolds v Robinson,
64 N. Y 589, Chew v Hyman, 10 Bissell, 240, -Yrrmon v
Stewart, 93 U. S. 155, Whelan v W-helan, 3 Cowen, 537,
"estern Railroad v N olan, 48 N. Y 513, "etterlem v
-Barnes,124 U. S. 169.
Mu.JusTic. B.wRiE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The question in this case is whether certain transfers of
property made by John Schreyer to his wife, Anna Maria
Schreyer, were fraudulent and void as against Peter J Vanderbilt, a creditor of John Schreyer. The case is here on appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York, brought by the assignee m bankruptcy of
Schreyer against Schreyer individually, and as executor, etc.,
of his wife, now deceased. The Circuit Court, 25 Fed. Rep.
83, found that the transfers were fraudulent, and decreed that
the bankrupt, as executor and trustee, convey the real estate
and bonds and mortgages hereafter described to the assignee
in ban]cruptcy From such decree this appeal has been taken.
The facts -are these On January 21, 1871, Schreyer conveyed
to his wife the following real estate situated in the city of New
York Nos. 348 and 350 West 39th Street and Nos. 351, 353
and 355 West 427d Street. The title was passed from Schreyer
to his wife, by conveyance to Edward Sharkey, and from him
to Mrs. Schreyer. On October 15, 1870, Schreyer and his
wife conveyed No. 420 West 40th Street to George Gebhart
and No. 422 West 40th Street to Matthew L. Ritchie, who
each thereupon executed mortgages for $5000 to MArs. Schreyer.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

ThesQ conveyances and mortgages were all recorded in 1871.
Notice was thus given, by public record, of title in Mrs.
Schreyer to both the real estate and the mortgages. Thereafter, and in 1874, buildings were erected on the two lots last
mentioned,'the mortgages for $5000 surrendered and two-new
mortgages taken-one from Gebhart to Mrs. Schreyer for
$775.0 on premises No. 420 West 40th Street, and one from
Ritchieto Mrs. Schreyer for $8850 on premises No. 422 West
40th Street. The claim of Vanderbilt arose in this way On
February 2, 1874, a building contract was entered into between
George Gebhart and Matthew L. Ritchie as owners of
premises Nos. 420 and 422 West 40th Street, with Vanderbilt,
whereby he covenanted to erect two buildings on said premises
for the sum of $8175, to be paid in the following manner
"When the said houses are topped out the payment of five
thousand ($5000) dollars, by assignment of mortgage held by
John Schreyer on the property of Anna Maria Schreyer, No.
350 West 42d Street, in the city of New York, three thousand
one hundred and seventy-five ($3175) dollars when the houses
are fully compieted as above." On May 5, 1874, Vanderbilt
had so far completed his contract that he was entitled to an
assignment of the bond and mortgage. He then demanded
and received from. Schreyer not only an assignment, but a
guaranty of the bond and mortgage. There was no new consideration for this guaranty In 1876 a.prior mortgage on the
premises covered by the bond and mortgage assigned as ab6ve
set forth was foreclosed, and swept away the entire property,
so that this bond and mortgage became worthless, whereupon
Schreyer was sued on his guaranty, and judgment recoveredthereon. On September 17, 1878, John Schreyer was adjudged
a bankrupt upon a creditor's petition, filed August 23, 1878.
Several claims were proved against his estate in bankruptcy,
but all have been satisfied except that of Vanderbilt, so that,
while this action was brought by an assignee in bankruptcy, it
was really for the sole benefit of Vanderbilt. On September
6, 1876, Mrs. Schrever died, leaving a will by which her property was devised and bequeathed to her children, her husband
was named as executor, and he, individually and as executor,

SCREtER v. SCOTT.

4:09,

Opinion of the Court.

was the defendant m this suit. And now the contention.of
the plaintiff below is, that the conveyances of January 21,
181,.and the two mortgages from Gebhart and Ritchie to
Nis. Schreyer in 1874 were fraudulent and void as against the.
claim of Vanderbilt. The conveyances were made and recorded more 'than three years prior to the. building contract,
out of which Vanderbilt's claim arose, and, while the mortgages to Mrs. Schreyer were executed and recorded during the
same year with the bui!.ding contract, yet the obligation assumed by Schreyer was a voluntary -one, without consideration, and after a contracf expressly providing for payment in
another way, was conditional, and only became a fixed indebtedness two years thereafter, when by the foreclosure proceedings the worthlessness of the guaranteed bond and mortgage
Ng-s developed.. Obviously, very clear and direct testimony is
essential to support an adjudication that these various transfers
were fraidulent and void as against this subsequent creditor.
In determining the rules applicable to such transactions reference should be had not only to the decisions of this court, but
also to those of the courts of New York, where the parties
lived and the transactions took place. Allen v .Massey,, 17
Wall. 351., Grakam v Railroad Company, 102 U. S. 148,
Wallace v, Penteld,106 U. S. 260, 263, 261.
In a recent case in the Court of Appeals of New York,
Todd v _edon, 109 N. Y 316, 327, that court thus stated
the law "The theory upon-,which deeds conveying the property of an individuyl to some third party have been set aside
as fraudulent m regard to suSsoquent creditors of the grantor
has been that he has made a se~iet conveyance of his property
while.. remaining in the possessolo and seeming ownership
lbereof5 and has obtained crqdit thereby, while embarking an
some: hazardous business reqitring such credit, or the debts
which'he has incurred were incurred soon after the conveyance, thus_ making the fraudrlent intent a natural And almost
a necessary inference, and in this way he has been enabled to
obtain the property of others who were relying upon an appearance *hich was wholly delusiv. Such are the cases cited
by the learned, counsel for the appellants." See also Pill¢ps

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinon of the Court.

v Wooster, 36 N. Y 412, Curtis v Fox, 47 N. Y 299, Dunlap v Hawkins, 59 N Y 342, Carr v Breese, 81 N. Y 584,
and P]cni Bank v &qfford, 89 N. Y 405.
Turning now to the cases in this court It was said in
Smzth v. "Fodges,92 U S. 183 "The law of this case is too
well settled to admit of doubt. In order to defeat a settlement made by a-husband upon his wife, it must be intended
to defraud existing creditors, or creditors whose rights are,
expected shortly to supervene, or creditors whose rights, may
and do so supervene, the settler. purposing to throw the hazards of business in which he is about to engage upon others,
instead of honestly holding his means subject to the chance
of those adverse results to which all business enterprises are
liable. Sexton v Wheaton, 8 Wheat. 229, Aullen v Wilson,
44 Penn. St. 413, Stileman v Aslhdown, 2 Atk. 478, 481."
In Graham v Railroad Company, 102 U. S.148, 154, it was
said "It seems clear that subsequent creditors have no better
right than subsequent purchasers, to question a previous transaction in which the debtor's property was obtained from him
by fraud, which he has acquiesced in, and which he has manifested no desire to disturb. Yet, in such a case, subsequent
purchasers have no such right." In Wallace v Penfleld, 106
U. S.260, 262, in which it appeared that the husband transferring property to his wife was indebted at the time of the
transfer, though not to the party complaining of the transaction, the court observed. "His indebtedness existing at the time
of the settlement upon the wife, as well as that which arose
during the period of the improvements, was subsequently, and
without unreasonable delay, fully discharged by him. Commenced in 1868, they were all, with trifling exceptions, completed and paid for before the close of the summer of 1869.
So far as the record discloses, no creditor, who was such when
the settlement was made or the improvements were going on,
was materially hindered by the withdrawal by Williams, from
his means or business, of the sums necessary to pay for the
land and improvements. Those who seek, in this suit, to
impeach the original settlement, or to reach the means he invested i nnprovina his wife's land, became his creditors some

SCHREYER v. SCOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

time after, the improvements (with slight exceptions not worth
mentioning) had been made and paid for. If they trusted
him in the belief that he owned the land, it was negligent in
them so to do, for the conveyance of February 11, 1868, duly
acknowledged, was filed for record'within a few days after its
-execution." And in Horbach v EXt, 112 U. S. 144, 149, this
language was used "The complainant, not showing that he
was at the time a creditor, cannot complain. Even a voluntary conveyance is good as against subsequent creditors, unless executed as a cover tor future schemes of fraud." From
these authorities, it is evident that the rule obtaining in New
York, as.well as recognized.hy this court, is., that even a voluntary conveyance from husband to wife. is god as against
subsequent creditors; unless it was made with the intent to
defraud such subsequent creditors, or there was secrecy in
the transaction by which knowledge of it was withheld from
such creditors, who dealt with the grantor upon the faith of
his owning the property transferred, or the transfer was
made with a view of entering into some new and hazardous
business, the risk of which the grantor intended should be
cast upon .the parties having dealings with him in the new
business. Tested by these rules, it is impossible to sustain an
adjudication, upon the testimony in this case, that the transfer
of either the real estate or the bonds and mortgages was
fraudulent as against the creditor Vanderbilt.
Assuming, in the first instance, that both transfers were
purely voluntary, the deeds to Mrs. Schreyer were made and
recorded three years before the building contract was signed,
or the work done, out of which Vanderbilt's claim arose.
There was thus that constructive notice referred to in Wallace
v. Penfield, supra, as sufficient. Further, on May 21st, 1872,
Vanderbilt entered into a written contract with Mrs. Schreyer
to do the mason work in the construction of a building on the
lots conveyed, the contract price being $10,500. He thus had
actual as well as constructive notice, more than two years
before he entered into this last contract, that Mrs. Schreyer
was the owner of these lots. With such knowledge he entered
into the last contract, and thereafter accepted Schreyer's

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

guaranty 'How can he then say, with such knowledge, that
he was defrauded by those conveyances 2 Is it possible to
suppose that the Schreyers, when they made those conveyances, looked forward three years, and anticipated that Gebhart and Ritchie would seek to improve their real-estate, and
obtain pecuniary assistance from them, and, with that prevision, planned to defraua any one who might rely upon
Mr. Schreyer's guaranty 2 Further than that, Schreyer did
not at the time purpose to, and did not in fact, change his
regular business, or enter upon any new business. From 1854
his business was that of a stair-builder, which business he
prosecuted steadily untilThe sold out, in 1876, six years after
the conveyances. Notwithstanding these conveyances, he
retained all the property used m his stair-building business,
was in debt only from five hundred to one thousand dollars,
and had money in bank, accounts due him, and personal property used in his business, aggregating from ten to twenty
thousand dollars. It is true that some S12000 of mechanic's
liens had been filed against buildings which he owned, and
which had been recently constructed, but these liens were
by sub-contractors, with possibly' one or two minor exceptions.
Money for their payment was deposited with certain trust
companies; and, as the amounts due were adjudicated, they
were paid out of moneys thus deposited. Could anything
be clearer than that these conveyances were free from all
imputation of fraud, as. against anybody, and especially as
against such a remotely subsequent creditor 2
While the transaction as to the bonds and mortgages is
nearer in point of time to the creation of the indebtedness
t6 Vanderbilt, it is so-remote in fact as also to be free from
imputation of fraud. The circumstances surrounding the creation of*this debt must be stated a little more in detail Gebhart and Ritchie owned the lots, they were each subject to
two mortgages, one was a mortgage of $3750, given to Ellen
E. Ward, from whom the Schreyers had originally purchased
the, lots, and one to M rs. Schreyer, originally $5000, but
reduced by payments to about $2200. Desiring to build, in
the belief that the rents from new buildings on the front of

SCHREYER v. SCOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

the lots could be used to pay off their indebtedness, they
arranged with the Schreyers for an -advance of the amount
that should be needed in addition to the sums they could bor

row on mortgages from the Ward estate. The Ward estate
agreed to loan $10,000 on each lot and contemplated building.
In pursuance of this arrangement, Mrs. Schreyer released her
mortgages, new ones were executed to the Ward estate for
$10,000 on each lot, and the difference in money, $6000 and
over, was paid to Gebhart and Ritchie, respectively, and by
them handed.to the Schreyers, and, when the .buildings were
completed, new mortgages were executed to Mrs. Schreyer for
the $2200 of 'her original mortgage, and the excess of the cost
above the amount furnished by the Ward estate. Schreyer,
who was a practical builder, supermtgnded the construction
of the buildings. Vanderbilt made a contract with Gebhart
and Ritclne for the mason work, as heretofore stated. He
entered into this contract with knowledge that the $5000
bond and mortgage which Schreyer proposed to transfer in
part payment was second and subordinate to a prior mortgage
of $16,000. He must have assumed, when he made the con.
tract, that the property mortgaged was good for both.mort.
gages, and, according to the testimony, it was then considered
worth from thirty to thirty-five thousand dollars. When he
had so far completed his contract as to be entitled to the
assignment of his bond and mortgage, he demanded its guaranty from Schreyer, and-he, in order that there might be no
delay in the'work, gave the required guaranty Two years
thereafter, owing to depreciation in value of real estate, the
property covered by this $5000 bond and mortgage was sold
under foreclosure of the $16,000 mortgage, and realized onl.r
enough to pay that. Hence, Schreyer became, liable on his
guaranty Is there anything m these facts to show fraud in
intent or fraud in result 9 Obviously not. Vanderbilt entered
into his.contract with full knowledge of all the circumstances,
unquestionably considering the $5000 bond and mortgage wellsecured, and willing to take his chances of its .payment on
foreclosure,' if not otherwise. Schreyer, making no representations or concealments, doubtless acted m the same belief;

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

and when, after partial completion of the contract, he, to prevent delay in the future work, guaranteed payment of the
bond and mortgage, he did so in the b6lief that it was amply
secured, and that he was assuming little or no risk m his guaranty If fraud or wrong was intended on his part, obviously
he would have refused to guarantee, and left Vanderbilt to
take that which. his contract entitled him to. The very fact
of his voluntarily assuming a risk which he was under no obligations to assume, and which in no manner inured to his benefit, is satisfactory evidence that he had no thought of fraud.
The subsequent depreciation of the value of real estate, and
the failure to realize on the sale thereafter more than the first
$16,000 mortgage, was something anticipated by neither party
It was one of those vicissitudes unexpected and unlooked for
-not

planned for -and

doubtless an astonishment to all the

parties. All the arrangements for the execution of these
second mortgages to- Mrs. Schreyer were made before any
guaranty or personal liability on the part of Schreyer was
demanded or thought of, and it does not appear that he was
in debt to any one at the time the arrangements were so
made. Surely this unnecessary and voluntary assumption on
his part in no manner indicates fraud in the arrangements
already entered into and subsequently carried out, for the execution of these bonds and mortgages to Mrs. Schreyer. In
the case of Carr v Breese, 81 N. Y 584, which was like this
in presenting an unexpected depreciation in the value of property, the court justly observed "Reverses came unexpectedly, while in the pursuit of his ordinary business, without any
intention on his part to defraud his creditors, and it may be
said that, without any fault on his part, except a want of
human foresight, he became embarrassed and insolvent. It is
not apparent that Breese had in view, at the time of the execution of the deed to his wife, any such result, or that he in
any way contributed to produce the result which followed, for
the purpose of defrauding his creditors and enjoying the advantages to be derived from the provisions made for his wife.
Under such circumstances, the presumption of any fraudulent
'intent is rebutted, and it ismanifest that he had done no more

SCHREYER v. SCOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

than any business man has a right to do, to provide against
future misfortune when he is abundantly able to do so."
Further, as negativing any fraud. in intent, a year after this
guaranty, and when undoubtedly there must have been developing some probability of liability therefrom, Schreyer purchased other real estate and took the title in his own name.
Still, again, not only did he continue m his regular business of
stair-building after these transactions, but it is evident from his
bank-books, produced in evidence, that his business was of
considerable magnitude, for between August 26, 1869, and
September 6, 1876, a period of about seven years, and including the time of these transactions, Ins deposits amounted to
$391,296.44.
We have thus far considered the case as to these transfers
from Schreyer to his wife, as if they were purely voluntary,
but according to his testimony, and there is none contradicting
it, they were far from voluntary, but rather the passing of the
legal title to Ins wife, of property of which she was, prior
thereto, the equitable owner, or in which she had. at least a
large equitable interest. She had between twenty-five hundred and three thousand dollars in money when they were
married, in April, 1854. She purchased the leasehold interest
in the lots on 39th. Street, paying therefor out of her own
moneys, $500 each. They lived on one of the lots, and thebuilding on the 6ther was rented. Unquestionably, therefore, the rents belonged to her. She also kept boarders for
a number of years, two of them living with her for at least
ten years, paying $5.00 per week each. The balance of the
money she had when married she passed over to him from
time to time for improvements on the property, or use in his
business. It is true that afterwards buildings of considerable
value were put upon these lots, and we do not wish to be
understood as affirming that the entire cost of the property
was the proceeds of her investment, or her earnings. All that
the testimony fairly discloses is, that at the time of her marriage she was possessed of separate property, which was the
foundation and largely the source of these subsequent accumulations. So that the conveyances in 1871 were not purely vol-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opimon of the Court.

antary, but meritorious and upon good consideration. The
same may be said as to the bonds and mortgages placed in her
name in 1871.
It is objected -by the appellees that Schreyer's testimony is
not to be depended upon, because contradictory, confused and
uncertain, that there is no definiteness in it as to amounts and
dates, and that wrong in the transactions is evident, because
the moneys received for rent after the conveyances, were deposited by Schreyer in his own name in bank, and were obviously managed and handled by him as his own, as no accounts
were kept between husband and wife of their separate moneys,
but all were mingled in one fund, in his hands. But does all
this indicate fraud 2 If his testimony is worthless and to be
rejected, then there is practically no testimony interpreting
those transactions, and the court never presumes fraud. The
very confusion and carelessness in the dealings between husband and wife make-against rather than in favor of the claim
of fraud. There is no evidence that he was in debt at the time
of these conveyances, at least beyond a trifling amount, which
was subsequently paid, and if the parties had intended fraud
and wrong, unquestionably their accounts would have been
kept carefully and accurately, and books would now be presented showing such accounts. Husband and wife evidently
saw-no necessity of dealing with each other at arm's length,
the title to the property was placed in her name when there
was no legal or equitable reason why it should not be done,
and the rents and other cash receipts were not unnaturally
kept in one account and handled as one fund. The lack of
substantial indebtedness. and the record of the transfer being
established, the carelessness of their dealings tends to prove
honesty rather than to establish fraud.
Again, it is objected that the conduct of Schreyer, in respect
to the bankrupt proceedings, is suspicious, that the bankrupt
proceedings, though nominally at the instance -of a creditor,
were really at his instance, that the bankrupt and the creditor
found their counsel in the same office, and that the other
claims proved against him were in some suspicious way fixed
up and adjusted, leaving only Vanderbilt's clan unpaid.

SCHIREYER v. SCOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

Conceding all that is claimed by counsel in reference to these
bankrupt proceedings in 1878, it isdifficult to deduce therefrom any evidence of wrong in the transactions in 1871 and
1874. It may be that Schreyer did not want to pay Vanderbilt's claim, and it may be, as claimed by counsel, that he
improperly sought the assistance of the bankrupt court to be
relieved from liability therefrom, but it would be a very unjust conclusion from such facts, that in 1871, when he made
the conveyances-to his wife, and in 1874, when he made the
arrangement for the execution of the bonds and mortgages to
his wife, anterior to any known or expected liability to Vanderbilt, he was acting with a view of subsequently going
through bankruptcy, or defrauding Vanderbilt or any other
creditor.
Recapitulating, the conveyances in 1871 were meritorious,
upon good consideration, made by one in debt in only a
trifling sum, and retaining an abundance of property for the
discharge of those debts, and who in fact subsequently, and as
they became due, paid them-made by one continuing and
expecting to continue in the same profitable and no% hazardous
business in which he had been engaged for nearly a score of
years, with no thought of entering upon any new or hazardous
business, and more than three years before any liabillty to
Vanderbilt was incurred or even thought of. And the placing
of the notes, bonds and mortgages in 187 4 in Mrs. Schreyer's
name was in pursuance of an arrangement entered into when
'the husband was not in debt, and when no obligation, fixed or
contingent, to Vanderbilt had been entered into or thought of.
Under these circumstances it is error to hold that the trausactions were fraudulent and void as against Vanderbilt.
The decree of the Cir swt Court must be reverse, and the
case remanded, with 'tnstructwns for further proceedings
sn accordancewith the vews heremn expressed.
VOL. cxxxiv-27

