OGDENSBURGH RAILROAD v. N. & L. RAILROAD. 311
Syllabus.

pensation to be paid an owner of property taken for the public
use accorling to the forms of law.
[he motion to dismiss because the value of the matter in dipute does not exceed $5,000 is denied; but it is ordered
that the supersedeasITon the writ of errorfrom this court
shall not, during the pendencyj of the writ, Irevent or
hinder the telegraph company from occupying the prerises appropriatedfo, its use and proceeding to erect and
operate its line of telegraph thereon, after it has Paid
into the Circuit Courtfortheperson or corporationentitled
thereto, the amount of damages and compensation assessed

by the jury empanelledin the Circuit Court.

OGDENSBURGHI & LAKE CHAM-PLAIN RAILROAD
COMPANY v. NASHUA & LOWELL RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEAT

FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES F'OR

THE DISTRICT OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
Submitted October29, 184.-Decided November24, 1884.
Four parties made an agreement respecting transportation of freight. The
parties of the first part were carriers by water to Ogdensburgh. The parties
of the second part were made by the agreement trustees to hold and apply
certain moneys raised for the purpose. The parties of the third part were
owners in severalty of lines over which it was proposed that the freight
brought by party 1 to Ogdensburgh should pass in transit to Boston. ',The
parties of the fourth part were owners of a line of railway between Ogdensburgh & Lake Champlain over which the freight would pass to rcael the
roads of party 8. The agreement, among other things, provided that party
3 should pay to party 2in semi-annual payments apart of the gross receipts
derived from the transportation of this freight, and further that "the party
of the fourth part ill, in case it shall be necessary to secure the regular
and efficient running of said steamers to and from Ogdensburgh, when called
upon by parties of the second part, advance from time to time sums not
exceeding in all $600,000, to be used by said parties of the second part for
the same purposes as said semi-annual payments, and to be pro tanto in lieu
thereof, and to be repaid out of said semi-annual reservation as hereinafter

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.
provided, it being understood and agreed that each of said parties of the
third part shall only be liable to reserve and advance or pay to the parties
Pf the secondpart or to the party of the fourth part, as the case may be, its
share of such 'reservation, advance, or payment, to be ascertained by the
proportion which said gross receipts of each of said parties bear to the entire amount of said gross receipts between Ogdensburgh and points eastward
upon roads owned, leased, or operated by any of said third parties:" Held,
That this agreement raised no promise by implication on the part of any of
the parties of the third part to repay to the party of the fourth part any
advances which it might make under the agreement to the parties of the
second part in excess of the .semi-annual payments which the parties of the
third part were bound to make.

,This was a.suit in equity to enforce the payment by defend.ant in this court, who was also defendait below, of its proportionate shaire of advances alleged to have been made under an
agreement to maintain a joint freight line on the lakes for the
benefit of several lines of railway, comprising the line between
Ogdensburgh and Boston. The facts which make the case are
stated in the opinion of the court.
Bartlett for plaintiff in error.
idney
i.
.I.

F. A. Brooks for defendant in error.

MiR. JUsTicE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court for the
District of :New Hampshire, dismissing the bill of appellant,,
who was complainant below.
The plaintiff is the owner of a railroad commencing at Ogdensburgh on Lake Ontario, and terminating at Plattsburgh on
Lake Champlain. The defendant.owns a road between Nashua
and Lowell. The Vermont and Canada IZ. R. Co., the Vermont Central R. R.Co., the Northern R.R.Co,of New Hampshire, the Concord RFR. Co. of New Hampshire, the Nashua
& Lowell of New Hampshire, and the Boston & Lowell of
Massachusetts, were all largely interested in the freight and
passenger business which came over the Ogdensburgh road from
the great lakes for points in New England and Canada, and
which went from the latter to the lakes.

OGDENSBURGH RAILROAD v. N. &L. RAILROAD. 313
Opinion of the Court.
The Vermont Central and the Vermont and Canada companies were, in the hands of receivers, or trustees, appointed by
courts under wvhose control they were, and these trustees had a
lease of the Ogdensburgh road for twenty years from March 1,
1870. In this condition of the affairs of these companies a
contract was made between them all except the Concord company, the object of -which was to secure an increased traffic
over all these roads by obtaining control of the Northern
Transportation Company of Ohio, which wa§ also a party to
the contract, and which was engaged in steamboat transportation on the Western lakes. One of the items of this agreement
was that the Ogdensburgh company should advance a sum not,
exceeding $600,000 to secure this control, which it did, and the
only question on the present appeal is whether by virtue of the
contracr the several railroad companies which were parties to
it, were bound to repay to the appellant this money at all
events, or were only bound to pay out of receipts from the
traEc which came to them severally from this transportation
company over the Ogdensburgh road. This requires a careful
examination of the contract, and a consideration of the circumstances under which it was made. The agreement is as
follows:
"Articles of agreement between the Northern Transportation Company of Ohio, a corporation established under the
laws of Ohio, party of the first part ;J. Gregory Smith, of
t. Albans, Vermont, and George Stark, of Nashua, New
ampshire, parties of the second part; and the trustees and
managers of the Vermont Central and Vermont and Canada
Railroad Companies, the Northern Rail'oad of New Hampshire (the Concord Railroad Corporation of New Hampshire,
provided they execute tbis agreement), the Nashua and Lowell
Railroad Corporation of New Hampshire and Massachusetts,
and the Boston and Lowell Railroad Corporation of Massachusetts, parties of the third part; and the Ogdensburgh and
Lake Champlain Railroad Company, the party of the fourth
part.
"Whereas the above-named railroad companies and trustees
and managers which have become parties to agreements

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

hereto annexed, bearing date the twenty-fourth day of February, A.D. 1870, and whose tracks forms a large part of the
connecting line between Boston, in Massachusetts, and Ogdensburgh, in New York, depend largely for their business upon the
regular transportation by steamers of freight and passengers
between said Ogdensburgh and the Western cities and towns
upon the great lakes; and whereas the party of the first part
was chartered to carry on the business of such transportation,
but by reason of financial embarrassments is unable to carry
it on efficiently, and it is feared that its steamers may be
taken from this line; and whereas the parties of the third
part and the party of the fourth part believe it to be for their
and the public interest to advance or lend to the parties of the
second part some portion of the gross receipts for the transportation of freight and passengers to be brought to and from
their line by the steamers of the party of the first part, in order
to secure the most regular, efficient, and permanent service by
steamers between Ogdensburgh and said Western cities and
-towns for the term of nineteen years from the.-first day of March,
A.D. 1871 ; and whereas the parties of the second part have
agreed to use all sums advanced or lent to them to secure the
ownership or the control of the stock of said party of the first
part, and otherwise to secure the most efficient management of
its business to carry out the purposes of this agreement, and
for no other purposes, and to hold all said stock which they
may hold or control, and all other property or rights which
they may purchase or otherwise acquire with said funds, except debts due from said party of the first part, in trust to
secure the repayment of all sums which may be so advanced
or lent as aforesaid, with interest as hereinafter provided.
"Now, therefore, in consideration of the premises, it is covenanted and agreed between said parties as follows:
"Article First.-That the party of the first part shall, during
said term, continue to hold and own as many and as serviceable
steamers as it now has, and will keep them properly equipped,
seaworthy, and in good running order, and will make such addition to the number of said boats as the business shall require,
and will run them for. the transportation of freight and pas-

OGDENSBURGH RAILROAD v. N. & L. RAILROAD. 315
Opinion of the Court.
sengers between said Ogdensburgh and said Western cities and
towns, at such time, and in such manner, and at such rate of
freight and fare as shall be satisfactory to the executive committee of the parties of the third part for the time being, or if
there be no such executive committee, or there is any legal impediment to their action, to the satisfaction of the presidents,
for the time being, of the third and fourth parties, or a majority
of them. And that the party of the first part will keep all
other property owned by it in good repair and in serviceable
condition, and that so far as may be practicable during said
term, it will send all freight and passengers for points east of
Ogdensburgh over the lines of the roads of the parties of the
third and fourth parts.
'A schedule of said steamers and other -property is hereto
annexed
"A'ticle Second.-That the parties of the third part, will,
during sad term, semi-annually reserve out of the gross receipts, either upon said line or upon any road now leased or
operated, or which may hereafter be leased or operated by
the parties of the third part, or either of them, for the transportation of freight and passengers brought to said line at
Ogdensburgh by the steamers of the party of the first part, the
sum of one hundred and fifty thousand dollars, or so much
thereof as shall be adequate for the purposes herein set forth,'
and pay over the same to the parties of the second part to be
used for the purpose of securing regular, efficient, and adequate
service to and from said Ogdensburgh as aforesaid, and the
party of the fourth part will, in case it shall be necessary to
secure the regular and efficient running of said steamers to
and from said Ogdensburgh, when called upon by parties of the
second part, advance, from time to time, sums not in all exceeding six hundred thousand dollars, to be used by said parties
of the second part for the same purposes as said semi-annual
payments, and to be~pro tanto in lieu thereof, and to be repaid
out of said semi-annual reservation, as hereinafter provided, it
being understood and agreed that each of saidparties of the
third part shall only be liable to reserve and advance or pay to
the parties of, the second part, or to the party of the fourth

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

part, as the case may be, its share of such reservation, advance,
or payment, to be ascertained by the proportion which said
gross receipts of each of said parties bear to the entire amount
of said gross receipts between Ogdensburgh and points eastward, upon the roads owned, leased, or operated by any of said
third parties.
"Article J7idrd.-That the parties ef the second part shall
hold all stock and rights to control stock of the party of the
first part which they now have or shall purchase or acquire,
and all other property or rights that may be purchased or
otherwise acquired under this agreement, except debts due
frbm the party of the first part as aforesaid, in trust, to secure
the repayment of all sums which the parties of the third and
fourth parts, either or any of them, lend or advance under this
agreement, and interest thereon at the rate of ten per cent. per
annum, payable semi-annually, and shall apply all dividends
which they shall receive on said stock and income from other
property to repay the same, and in case said sums shall not all
have been repaid with interest as aforesaid, on or before the
expiration of said term, or at any time, in case of failure of the
third parties, or either of them, to perform the stipulations of
this agreement, then said paties of the second part shall, in
case the parties hereto of the third and fourth parts shall not
otherwise agree, sell said stock and other property at public
auction in said Ogdensburgh, after advertising the same for at
least thirty days in some newspaper published in said Ogdensburgh, and a newspaper published in said Boston, and divide the
net proceeds among the parties entitled thereto, but any change
may at any time, and from time to time, be made in said trust
funds by sale, purchase, or otherwise by said parties of the
second part, with the written consent of the presidents for the
time beingof the parties of the third and fourth parts.
"That while the parties of the third part continue to pay
the semi-annual interest to the party of the fourth part, and
the semi-annual payments to the trustees of the sinking fund as
herein provided, the parties of the second part shall pay any
dividends or income which they may receive to the parties of
the third part, but in case of any default on the part of the

OGDENSBURGH RAILROAD v. N. & L. RAILROAD. 317
Opinion of the Court.

parties of the third part said dividends and income shall be
paid directly to said Ogdensburgh & Laka Champlain Railroad
Company and to said trustees of said sinking fund in proportion to the amount of the semi-annual payments to them herein
provided, and to be received by thempro tanto -in place of said
semi-annual payments.
"Article Fourth.-Thatin ease of vacancy in the number of
the parties of the second part, or their successors, by death,
resignation, or otherwise, the party of the second part or his
successors continuing in the trust may fill the vacancy, subject,
however, to the approval of the parties of the third and fourth
parts, and that the parties of the second part or their successors
are to assume no personal liability to repay the money advanced by the parties of the third and fourth parts, but to apply the same according to the terms of this agreement, and to
hold said stock, rights, and other property in trust and apply
the same and the dividends thereon and income thereof as
aforesaid.
"Article _ifth.-That in case the party of the fourth part
shall advance any sum or sums amounting to six hundred
thousand dollars, or any part thereof, under this agreement,
then the parties of the third part are to pay to the party of
the fourth part so much of said semi-annual payments reserved
from gross receipts as aforesaid as will pay the semi-annual
interest on said sum or sums so advanced by the party of the
fourth part at the rate of eight per cent. per annum, and shall
pay to the persons who may for the time being hold the offices
of president and treasurer of the Boston & Lowell Railroad
Corporation, and of the Ogdensburgh & Lake Champlain Railroad Company, as trustees, such sums semi-annually as will, in
the judgment from time to timA of said two presidents and
treasurers for the time being, when invested as a sinking fund,
pay all excess of the advances of the party of the fourth part
over five hundred thousand dollars within two years from the
date hereof, and the remainder of the principal of said advances on or before the expiration of said term of nineteen
years, and also such further sum semi-annually as will, when
invested as a sinking fund, in the judgment of said two

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

presidents and treasurers as aforesaid, purchase the existing
mortgage bonds of the party of the first part, amounting to
four hundred thousand dollars, within ten years from the date
hereof, which bonds so purchased shall be held by said trustees
of the sinking fund for the security of the parties hereto, as if
held under article seventh of this agreement, and that said
semi-ahnual payments are to be made to the party of the fourth
part and to said trustees of said sinking fund in place of advances to the same amounts to the parties of the second part, as
hereinbefore provided, and are to be ultimately repaid to the
parties of the third part out of the dividends, income, and
securities purchased or otherwise acquired by the parties of the
second part, as herein provided, vhether the same shall be held
by them or transferred to the trustees of said sinking fund. In
no case shall payments to a sinking fund be less than amounts
which invested at six per cent. per annum will produce the
sum to be paid out of such sinking fund.
"Article Sixt.-That f at the end of said term the sums
advanced to the parties of the second part under this agreement
shall not have been repaid to the parties of the third part, with
interest, as hereinbefore provided, from the dividends of the
stock of the party of the first part, or otherwise, the party of
the fourth part shall have the right, for six months after the
expiration of said term, to purchase at the actual cost thereof
from the parties of the third part one hundred and twenty-four
hundred and fourth parts of the claim for said, advances, and in
any event shall have a like proportionate interest on the same
terms under any new arrangement which may be made, and a
like proportionate interest in the securities for said claim, or in
securities, property, or rights acquired under this. agreement, on
paying a like proportion of the cost thereof.
"Article Sevent.-That it shall be the duty of the parties of
the second part, if practicable, to procure an extension of the
time of payment of the mortgage bonds of the party of the
first part, which shall not have been purchased for the sinking
fund for five years from the date of maturity; but if it shall
be necessary in order to secure the running of said steamers as
aforesaid for the parties of the second part to use any of the

OGDENSBURGH RAILROAD v. N. & L. RAILROAD. 319
Opinion of the Court.

funds advanced to them as aforesaid to purchase or otherwise acquire' any debts due from said party of the first part, whether secured by mortgage or not, said parties of the second part shall
forthwith assign and transfer all said debts and all evidences
thereof and all securities therefor to the persons who may for the
time being be trustees of said sinking fund to be held by them in
trust; fist, to secure the repayment of all advances or loans made
under this agreement by the party of the fourth part, and after
the full payment of said advances or loans with interest as aforesaid to the party of the fourth part, to secure the repayment of
all sums paid, advanced, or lent under this agreement by the
parties of the third part, with interest as aforesaid, and that as
long as the semi-annual payments of interest shall be duly made
by the parties of the third part to the party of the fourth part,
and the semi-annual payment to the sinking fund, as provided
in the fifth article of this agreement, said trustees may extend
by renewals or otherwise the payment of both the principal and
interest of said debts of said party of the first part at their discretion for a period not exceeding ten years from the date
thereof, but in case of default by the parties of the third part,
to make said payments of interest and to the sinking fund, as
provided in article fifth, said trustees of said sinking fund shall
forthwith, if requested, in writing, by the party of the fourth
part, proceed to collect said debts, and out of the sums
collected pay from time to time said semi-annual interest, as provided in article fifth, to the party of the fourth part, and hold
the balance, if any, as a part of said sinking fund, and that all of
said sinking fund shall finally, at the end of said term, be applied to pay all advances made by the party of the fourth part,
and if any balance shall remain the same shall be divided among
the parties of the third part in such proportions as they shall
be entitled to, and if said sinking fund 'hall prove insufficient
the parties of the third part shall make up the deficiency out
of gross receipts from said business brought by steamers
as aforesaid.
"A'rticle E'glith.-That the parties of the third part, in order
to secure the payment to the party of the fourth part, and to
the trustees of the sinking fund, of the amount agreed upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.
semi-annually as hereinbefore provided, will deposit with the
manager of the Boston & Lowell Railroad Corporation at
Boston, or the person for the time being performing the duties
now performed by said manager, before the last day of June
and the last day of December of each year of said term, from
funds in their hands received from freights and passengers
brought to or carried from the line aforesaid by the party of the
first part, the. amount of the semi-annual payments to be made
to the party of the fourth part and to the trustees of said sinking fund; and the party of the fourth part and said trustees
are hereby authorized to draw the same, on the first days of
each of the following months, on the manager or other person
as aforesaid, who is hereby authorized to, and it is hereby agreed,
shall make the payments in this article provided for out
of sums so deposited, or in case of failure to make such deposits
out of and to the extent of any funds in the hands of said
Boston & Lowell Railroad Corporation, collected in behalf of
each of the parties of the third part from joint freight and passengers brought to and from the steamers of the party of the
first part.
"Article fNintl.-The trustees of said sinking fund shall invest the same, so far as shall be found to be reasonably practicable, in any mortgage bonds of the party of the first part,
and in the bonds of the party of the fourth part which shall be
-ssued after the date hereof, which last-mentioned 'bonds, when
so purchased, shall be cancelled by said trustees of said sinking
fund, and when so cancelled be delivered to the party of the
fourth part, and the party of the fourth part shall give a receipt for the amount of the bonds so cancelled, and said receipt;
filed with the trustees of said sinking fund, shall represent said
sinking fund to the amount of the said cancelled bonds; and if
any other investment of said sinking fund shall be made by
said trustees special regard shall be had to the absolute safety
of such investment.
"The compensation of said. trustees shall be fixed and paid
by the parties of the third part, and said t-ustees shall annually
make a written or printed, report of their investments and
doings to the parties of the third part and party of the fourth

OGDENSBURGH RAILROAD v. N. & L. RAILROAD. 321
Opinion of the Court.

part, and such further special reports of said investments and
doings as said parties of the third part and party of the fourth
part, or either of them, may require.
"In witness whereof the said corporations, parties to this
agreement, have respectively caused their corporate seals to be
hereto affixed, and their corporate presents to be signed.
"Signed, executed, and delivered by their respective presidents hereunto duly authorized, and the said trustees and managers of the Vermont Central and Vermont & Canada Railroad companies, and the said J. Gregory Smith and George
Stark have hereunto set their hands and seals at Boston, in the
Commonwealth of Mrassachusetts, this twenty-fourth day of
February, A. D.eighteen hundred and seventy-one."
The Ogdensburgh road advanced the $600,000, and it was
used for the purpose mentioned in the agreement. The trapsportation company became bankrupt in the year 1874, the business was broken up, and has never been resumed under the
contract.
A part of the money advanced by the Ogdensburgh company
has been paid to it. - It made settlements with some of the
companies, or their trustees, in regard to its claim, and it
brought this suit against the Nashua & Lowell company for
what it alleges to be its proportion of the sum unpaid.
It is not asserted by the plaintiff that the parties who are
described in the agreement as the parties of the third part are
jointly liable for this deficiency. If so, no suit could be maintained against the defendant here without joining the others.
It is not asserted that there are any words of express promise
to pay by either of those companies the whole or any definite
part of this $600,000. The argument of counsel is that there
arises an implied promise out of the nature of the transaction.
We have looked in vain for anything in the language of the
agreement which requires or justifies such an implication.
If there were in the agreement any words which showed
that the party of the third part had borrowed this money from
the party of the fourth part, or that the latter had loaned it to
the former, the argument would be of weight. But the language of article second, which relates to this part of the transVOL. cx-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

action, is that "the party of the fourth part will, in case it shall
be necessary to secure the regular and efficient running of said
steamers to and from said Ogdensburgh, when called upon by the
parties of the second part, advance, from time to time, sums
not in all exceeding six hundred thousand dollars, to be used by
said parties of the second part for the same purposes as said
semi-annual payments, and to be pro tanto in lieu thereof, and
to be repaid out of said semi-annual reservation as hereinafter
provided, it being understood and agreed that each of said
parties of the third part shall only be liable to reserve and advance or pay to the parties of the second part or to the party
of the fourth part, as the case may be, its share of such reservation, advance, or payment to be ascertained by the proportion which said gross receipts of each of said parties bear to the
entire amount of said gross receipts between Ogdensburgh and
points eastward, upon the roads owned, leased, or operated by
any of said third parties."
It is to be observed, in the first place, that the transaction
is here called an advance, and not a loan, and, secondly, that
the advance is made to the party of the second part and not to
the party of the ikird part.
This party of the second part was J. Gregory Smith and
George Stark, who were made trustees to, eceive this money,
and see to its. investment in securing the service of the transportation company, and who were to receive and refund to
the Ogdensburgh company, for this advance, a certain proportion of the gross r ceipts of the railroad companies constituting
the party of the third part, which was relied on to repay that
company in full. This same article, in the very sentence in
which ihe Ogdensburgh cbmpany agrees to advance the money
to Smith and Stark, declares that each of the parties of the
third party shall only be liable to reserve and advance orPay
to the parties of the second part, or to the parties of the fourth
part, its share of such reservation to be ascertained by its proportion of said gross receipts. It is here also said that this
advance is to be repaid out of said semi-annual reservation as
hereinafter provided.
We thus see, in this single article, that the money is to be

OGDENSBURGH RAILROAD v. N.

&

L. RAILROAD. 323

Opinion of the Court.

advanced to the trustees, what use is to be made of it, that it
is to be repaid out of a fund called the semi-annual reservation
to be afterwards provided, and that neither to the trustees nor
to the Ogdensburgh company are the parties comprising the
third party to become liable beyond its share of this reservation.
This ieservation is described in the same article of the agreement, as a semi-annual sum not exceeding $150,000, or so
much as may be adequate for the purposes herein set forth,
"out of the gross receipts either upon said line or upon any
roads now leased or operated by the parties of the third part,
or either of them, for transportation of freight and passengers
brought to said line at Ogdensburgh by the steamers of the
party of the first part."
By article four these trustees are required to hold all the
stock of the transportation company which they now have or
may acquire, and all other property or rights which they may
acquire under this agreement, to secure the repayment of the
sums advanced by the Ogdensburgh company and by the
parties of the third part, with interest thereon at ten per cent.
per annum. Article five makes a further provision for payment, out of this reservation from the gross receipts, of the
semi-annual interEst of this advance by the Ogdensburgh company, and for a sinking fund to pay all in excess of the loan
over $500,000, within two years, and the remainder within the
nineteen years the contract had to run. It will be observed
that this agreement was intended to expire at the same time
that the lease of the Ogdensburgh road expired.
In all this it will be perceived that, while the mode of the
repayment of the advance of $600,000 is carefully and repeatedly stated, and the security provided, it is nowhere hinted
that the railroad companies of the third part are to be liable
for it if these sources of payment fail. Indeed, the third arti,cle provides for security for advances which they may make in
the same terms that it provides for the party of the fourth
part, which is the Ogdensburgh company; and the language
we have cited from article second, that each of the parties of
the third part is liable only on this account for its proportion-

OCTOBER TERM. 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

ate reservation from the proceeds of traffic derived from the
Ogdensburgh road, leaves little room for further doubt that
these resources were alone bound for the repayment of this
advance.
The learned counsel for appellants makes a forcible argument against this view, based on the assumption that the Ogdensburgh company had no interest in the traffic of the roads
embraced in this agreement, because its road being leased for
a period coincident with that of this contract, the lessees received all its benefits and the company none.
' It must be confessed that if the Ogdensburgh company had
no other interest in the transaction than to secure the repayment of a loan of money and the interest on it, as if made by
any other capitalist, the suggestion would be entitled to much
weight ; but in this, assumption counsel is in error.
The preamble recites as one of the main inducements to
making the agreement, that by reason of financial embarrassments the transportation company will be unable to continue its business, and its steamers will be withdrawn; and
whereas parties of the third part and the party of the fourth
-part (the Ogdensburgh company) believe it to befcnr their inter
est and the pfiblic interest to advance, &c. The interest of
'the Ogdensburgh company is here clearly stated as the cause of
its advance of the money, though at the time the agreement
was executed its road had already been leased a year, and, the
fact of the lease is-recited in the agreement.
Though this lease was for a fixed annual rent, the lessees
were the trustees of two other railroad companies which were
insolvent, and these trustees could only relr on the profits or
receipts ariging from this road to enable them to pay the rent.
Indeed so well-founded was the apprehension of failure of rent
arising from this fact, that in a few veeks after the withdrawal
of the boats of the Northern" Transportation Company the
lease -was rescinded, the road restored to the company, and the
trustees of the two Vermont railroad companies released from
any further liability on the 'contract we are now trying to construe. It is reasonably certain that the Ogdensburgh Railroad
Corporation had a deep interest in the success of the enterprise

BATES COUNTY v. WINTERS.
Syllabus.

inaugurated by this contract, and probably a larger interest
than any other party to the agreement, and clearly sait that it
must make this advance, the only thing it did in the matter, at
the risk of the success of the adventure, with such security for
obtaining a return out of the proceeds of it as the contract
gave.
A stipulation of the parties was made on submitting the case
to the court below, that, if that court held that no liability under the contract attached beyond that for a proportion of the
gross receipts, there were no such receipts in defendant's hands,
and the bill should be dismissed without requiring an accounting.
The Circuit Court construed the contract as we do, and its
decree dismissing the bill is therefore
4ffirmed

MRi.

JUsTICE BLATCHFoRD

took no part in the decision of this

case.

BATES COUNTY v. WINTERS & Another.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Argued Novemnber 12, 184.-Decided November 24, 1884.

A vote by a County Court in Mkissouri subscribing to the capital stock of a
railroad company on certain conditions named in.the vote, and directing
a desigoated agent to make the subscription on the stock books of the company, and to copy the conditions in full thereon; and a presentation of the
subscription and of the conditions in writing by the agent in person to the
directors at a directors' meeting ; and the acceptance of them by the board
with a direction that the same be spread upon the record books of the company, constituted a subscription to the stock, although no actual subscription was made by the agent personally on the stock books.
In Missouri the consolidation of two or more railroad companies organized
under the general law does not avoid subscriptions made to the stock of
either, or invilidate the delivery of municipal bonds to the consolidated company in payment of such subscriptions.

This was a suit to recover on" bonds issued by the plain-

