HASTINGS v. JACKSON.
Statement of Facts.

PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA ex
hASTINGS v. JACKSON & Another.
IN

.

ERROR TO THE SUPREk E COURT OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted October 31, 1884.-Decided November 17, 1884.

This court has no jurisdiction over the decision and judgment of a State court
upon adverse claims to real estate made under a common grantor whose
title was derived from the United States and is not in dispute. Romie v.

Ca~sanova, 91 U. S. 379, and .ioStay v. Friedman,92 U. S. 728, affirmed.

This was a suit brought by the State of California, at the
instance of S. C. Hastings, to set aside a patent of the State
granting the south half of sec. 14, T. 5 N., R. 1 W., to A. P.
Jackson. The lands were part of the 500,000 acres which went
to California on its admission into the Union, September 9,
1850 (9 Stat. 452, ch. 50), under the provisions of the act of September 1, 1841, ch. 16, ยง 8, 5 Stat. 455. By that act the lands
granted were to be selected by the State in such manner as the
legislature thereof should direct, and by the Constitution of
California (Art. IX., see. 2) they were devoted to the support of schools. The legislature of California, by an act passed
May 3, 1852, ch. 4, Acts of Cal. 1852, 41, authorized the governor to issue land warrants tQ the amount of five hundred
thousand acres in all and deposit them with the Treasurer of
State. These warrants were to be sold by the treasurer at two
dollars per acre, and the interest of the proceeds was set apart
"as a permanent fund for the support of schools." The purchasers were authorized to locate their warrants in behalf of
the State "upon any vacant rnd unappropriated lands belonging to the United States within the State of California subject
to such location." Provision was then made for the issue of
patents to locators by ihe State as soon as the lands were -surveyed.
The material averments in the complaint filed by the State
were that one Isaac Thomas located a school warrant on the
lands in question on the 20th of June, 1853; that, as the government surveys had not then been made, the lines of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

location were run by the county surveyor, and a correct entry
thereof made in the office of the county clerk; that the government surveys were completed and plats thereof filed in the
General Land Office on the 1st of October, 1853; that on the
24th of December, 1853, Thomas presented his location to the
register of the United States land district in which the lands
were situated; that the register accepted and approved the
locaticn; that afterwards Thomas filed with the register the
warrant under which his location was made; that the register
wrote the word "surrendered" across the face of the warrant
and gave to Thomas a certificate setting forth these facts; that
Hastings has been duly invested with all the rights of Thomas
under his location; that on the 14th of February, 1857, Jackson, one of the defendants, with full knowledge of all that had
been done by Thomas, located other warrants on the same
land, and, on the 18th of March, 1863, procured a certificate
to that effect from the Land Office of the United States, under
which a patent was issued to him by the State ; -that the lands
were "listed" to the State by the United States on the 10th
of February, 1870 ; and that on the 8th of September, 1871,
the Commissioner of the General Land Office cancelled the
location of Jackson, and returned to him the warrants which
had been used in making that location.
The prayer was "that the said defendants be decreed to
deliver up the said patent to be cancelled, and that they and
each of them, and every person claiming by, through, or under
them, or either of them, be perpetually enjoined and restrained
from setting up any claim or title to the said premises under
and by virtue of said alleged patent," and for general relief.
The defendants demurred to the complaint on the ground
that it did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action, in this:
"The performance of the acts stated in the complaint did
not make valid selection of the premises mentioned in the complaint, under said school land warrant No. 133. No valid
location of. said warrant is shown, nor any valid selections of
land under it.
"The allegations in the complaint as to the effect of the pre-

HASTINGS v. JACKSON.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

tended locations and the rights of I. Thomas and S. C. Hastings
are mere conclusions of law and not allegations of facts.
"The complaint shows upon its face that this action is barred
by the statute of limitation of this State.
"The facts stated show that defendant, Jackson, was entitled
to the patent when it was issued to him."
The court of original jurisdiction sustained the demurrer
and dismissed the complaint, and that judgment was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of the State on appeal. This writ of
error was brought to reverse the judgment of the Supreme
Court.
3_'. John Yorton Pomeroyfor plaintiff in error, as to the question of jurisdiction.-The Supreme Court of the United States
has an appellate jurisdiction of this case. It is properly before
this court on writ of error to the Supreme Court of California.
The decision of the case necessarily involves, aild the record
clearly presents, a "federal question," which the court below
necessarily passed upon adversely to the plaintiff in error. The
title or right of the plaintiff in error in this case is claimed under
a statute or statutes of the United States, and the decision of
the court below is against such right and title. Rev. Stat. ยง 709.
The title of the plaintiff in error and of the relator is claimed
under the act of Congress of July 23, 1866, the act of Congress
granting 500,000 acres to the State, and acts of Congress regulating the public lands, &c., and the decision of the State
court is necessarily adverse to such claim. All this sufficiently
and necessarily appears On the record itself. It is not necessary to state in terms that the law was drawn in question.
TVilliams v. .Norris,12 Wheat. 111; .Atontgomrery v. Hernandez,
12 Wheat. 129 ; Ryan v. Thornas, 4 Wall. 603; Furnma/. v.
Nichol, 8 Wall. 44; TMIllon v. Black Bird Creek .Marsk Co.,
2 Pet. 245; Farney v. Towle, 1 Black, 350. The fact that
other questions were also involved, growing out of State
laws, does not destroy this appellate jurisdiction, if the case
shows that a federal question was involved. laguirev. Tyler,
8 Wall. 650; ffinnesota v. Bacheld r, 1 Wall. 109. See Desty's
Federal Procedure, 333, and cases cited.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

3-D'. Xf. A. TFeatmo for defendant in error.

Thn. CHIEF JUSTicE WAiTE delivered the opinion of the court.
The first question which presents itself on this record is as to
our jurisdiction.. The su't, although in form by the State to
cancel its patent to Jackson, was in reality between Hastings
and Jackson to determine which of the two had in equity the
better right to the land in controversy by reason of the locations of school warrants under which they respectively claimed.
There was no dispute about the grant from the United States
to the State. That was conceded, and both parties claimed
under it. The controversy related only to the alleged conflictIastings claimed that Thomas, whose
ing grants of the State.
title he had, was the first locator, and, therefore, under the
legislation of the State, in equity the first grantee of the State,
while Jackson claimed that the Thomas location was invalid,
and that consequently his own title was the best. Both parties
thus claimed under the State, and neither asserted title from
the United States except through the State.
It is indeed averred in the complaint that the location of
Thomas was accepted and approved by the register of the
United States Land Office, and that Jackson also obtained a like
certificate, which was afterwards cancelled by the Commissioner of the General Land Office, but it is not pretended that
either of these things was done by the government officials
under the authority of the law of the United States. The act
of 1f841 provided for a grant by the United States of lands to
be selected by the State in such manner as the legislature
should direct, and the legislature did, by the act' of 1852, in
effect, direct that a location of warrants by the holder should
operate as a selection by the State of ,the particular tract
located as -part of the lands granted. That perfected the right
of the State to the land under the act of Congress, but gave.
the locator no rights as against the United States. By the express provisions of the State statute, under which he proceeded,
his location was to be made "in behalf of the State," and he
was to look to the State for his patent. What was done by
the officers of the United States only showed that the State

HASTINGS v. JACKSON.
Opinion of the Court.

had, through a holder of one of its school warrants, made a'
selection of the particular tract located as part of the lands
granted by the act of 1841. This gave the State a right to
the title under the act of Congress, but the warrant holder's
claim on the State for a conveyance of the land to him grew
out of the State statute, and not out of the certificate of the
United States officials.
Under these circumstances, the case is clearly governed by
1onzie v. Casanova, 91 U. S. 379, and .fcStay v. F'iedman,92
U. S. 723, in which it was decided that in a suit,for the recovery
of lands, where both parties claimed under a common grantor
whose title from the United States was admitted, this court hqd
no jurisdiction for the review of the decisions of a State court
upon questions relating only to the title acquired by the several
parties, under their respective grants, from the common grantor,
and which were not in themselves of a federal character.
Some reliance was had in the argument on the act of Congress approved July 23, 1866, ch. 219, 14 Stat. 218, "to quiet
land titles in California," but that act was not referred to in
the complaint, and, besides, it purports only to confirm the title
of the State, which, in this case, is perfect without it. No attempt is made in that act to provide for the settlement of the
rights of conflicting claimants under the State. Congress contented itself with the confirmation of the State's title, and left
all who claimed under that title to their remedies in the courts
or other tribunals provided by law for that purpose.
It follows that we have no jurisdiction of this case, and it is
accordingly
JDisrissed.

