BIRDSELL v. SHALIOL.
Statement of Facts.

BIRDSELL & Others v. SHALTOL & Another.
APPEAL

FROM

THE" CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE NORTHERNq DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Argued November 12, 18S.-Decided December 8, 184.

Judgment for and payment of nominal damages upon a bill in equity by a pat-

entee, without joining his licensee, against onewho has made and sold a machine in violation of the patent, are no bar to a bill in equity by the patentee
and licensee together, for the benefit of the licensee, against another person
who afterwards uses the same machine.

This was a bill in equity for an injunction and damages for
the infringement of a patent for an improvement in machines
for threshing and hulling clover seed. The answer set up a
former decree as an estoppel. 'The case was heard in the
Circuit Court upon a statement of facts agreed by the parties,
by which it appeared to be as follows:
Birdsell was the inventor and patentee of the improvement,
and granted to the Birdsell Manufacturing Company, a corporation of which he was the president and active manager and
owner of a large part of the'stock, an exclusive oral license to
make, vend and use his invention, but did not give it authority
to license others to make, vend and use. The corporationpaid
him no royalty, but set apart a sinking fund to defray the expense of defending the patent in the courts.
A former suit in equity was brought by Birdsell against the
Ashland Machine Company for an infringement of his patent
by making and selling large numbers of machines. The Birdsell M1anufacturing Company was not made a party to this suit,
but participated in instituting it and carrying it on till its close.
In that suit a perpetual injunction was decreed, and the case
was referred 'to a master, before whom damages sustained by
the Birdsell Manufacturing Company were proved and claimed,
and who reported that the defendant had made no profits for.
which it should account, and that, if any damages had been sustained, they had been sustained by the Birdsell Manufacturing
Company, a stranger to the suit, and that Birdsell the plaintiff,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

was entitled to recover only one dollar, as nominal damages.
The Ashland Machine Company afterwards, pending that suit,
,became insolvent; and a decree was rendered in Birdsell's
favor, according to the master's report, for nominal damages
and for costs, which were paid by that company.
The present suit was brought by Birdsell and the Birdsell
Manufacturing Company against Gerhart Shaliol and John
Feikert, who had used one of the machines manufactured by
the Ashland Machine Company, and embraced in the master's
report in the suit against that company.
The Circuit Court held that in the former suit the Birdsell
Manufacturing Company, although not named as a party
plaintiff in the bill, was in reality a co-plaintiff with ]Birdsell;
and that, by the final decree in that suit and the recovery and
payment of nominal damages, Birdsell and the Birdsell M anufacturing Company were estopped to maintain the present bill;
and therefore dismissed the bill, with costs. The plaintiffs
appealed to this court.
. . V.
appellants.

.Leggett (Xi,. .L

. Leggett was with him) for

No appearance for appellees.
M . JusTicE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court. He
recited the facts as above stated, and continued:
The plaintiffs in the present suit, Birdsell, the patentee, in
whom is the legal title, and the Birdsell Manufacturing Company, his licensee, in whom is the beneficial interest, make
three objections to the decree set up by way of estoppel: 1.
That the Birdsell Manufacturing Company was not a party. 2.
That the present defendants were not parties. 3. That only
nominal damages yere recovered and paid.
1. A licensee of A patent cannot bring a suit in his orn name,
at law or in equity, for its infringement by a stranger; an
action at law for the benefit of the licensee must be brought in
the name of the patentee alone; a suit in equity may be brought
by the patentee and the licensee together. Gayler v. Vlder,
10 How. 477, 495; Littlefktd v. Perry, 21 Wall. 205, 223;

BIRDSELL v.. SHALIOL.
Opinion of the Court.

Paper Bag Cases, 105 U. S. 766, 771. In a suit in equity
brought by the patentee alone, if the defendant seasonably objected to the nonjoinder of the licensee, the court might, as
Judge Lowell did in Hammond v. Hnt, 4 Banning & Arden,
111, order him to be joined. But when a suit in equity has been
brought and prosecuted, in the name of the patentee alone,
with the licensee's consent and concurrence, to final judgment,
from which, if for too small a sum, an appeal might have been
taken in the flame of the patentee, we should hesitate to say,
merely because the licensee was not a formal plaintiff in that
suit, that a new suit could be brought to recover damages against
the same defendant for the same infringement.
2. It is a more serious question whether a decree in favor of
the patentee, upon a bill in equity against one person for making and selling a patented machine, is a bar. to a subsequent
suit by the patentee against another person for afterwards
using the same machine within the term of the patent. A
license from the patentee to make, use and sell machines gives
the licensee the right to do so, within the scope of the license,
throughout the term of the patent; and has the same effect
upon machines sold by the licensee under authority of his
license, that a sale by the patentee has upon machines sold by
himself, of wholly releasing them from the monbpoly, and discharging all claim of the patentee for their use by anybody;
because such is the effect of the patentee's voluntary act of
licensing or selling, in consideration of the sum paid him for
the license or sale. Adams v. Burke, 17 Wall. 453. But an
infringer does not, by paying damages for making and using a
machine in infringement of a patent, acquire any right himself
to the future use of the machine. On the contrary, he may, in
addition to the payment of damages for past infringement, be
restrained by injunction from further use, and, when the whole
machine is an infringement of the patent, be ordered to deliver
it up to be destroyed. I.Sffolk Co. v. Hayden, 3 Wall. 315, 320;
Rioot v. Railway Co., 105 U. S. 189, 198; APeedcam v. Oeley, 8
Law Times (T. S.) 604; S. C. 2 New Rep. Eq. & Com. Law,
388; Freamon v. Loe, 9 Ch. D. 48, 67. No more does one, who
pays damages for selling a machine in infringement of a patent,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

acquire for himself or his vendee any right to use that machine.
In the case of a license or a sale by the patentee, the rights of
the licensee or the vendee arise out of contract with him. In
the case of infringement, the liability of infringers arises out
of their own wrongful invasion of his rights. The recovery
and satisfaction of a judgment for damages against one wrongdoer do not ordinarily confer, upon him or upon others, the
right to continue or repeat the wrong.
This view is in accord with the judgment of Vice-Chancellor
Wood (afterwards Lord Chancellor Hatherley) in two suits
brought by a patentee, the one against the manufacturer, and
the other against the user, where the plaintiff asked for an injunction against each, for an account against the manufacturer,
and for damages against the user, and declined to accept an
offer of the user to pay him the like royalties that other persons paid. It was argued in behalf of the user that the patentee was not entitled to damages against him, as well as to
an account against the manufacturer; and could not have an
account against the seller without adopting the sale, and, if he
adopted the sale, had no right to get anything from the purchaser. But the Vice-Chancellor held that the plaintiff was
entitled to an injunction, to an account, or, upon his waiving
that, to damages against the manufacturer, and also to damages against the user, and said: "With regard to the damages,
it has never, I think, been held in this court that an account,
directed against a manufacturer of a patented article, licenses
the use of that article in the hands of all the purchasers. The
patent is a continuing patent, and I do not see why the article
should not be followed in every man's hand, until the infringe-.
ment is got rid of. So long as the article is used, there is continuing damage." "As to the royalties, I cannot compel the
plaintiff to accept the same royalty from these defendants as
he receives from others. I cannot in the decree do less than
give the plaintiff his full right, and I cannot bargain for him
what he may choose, or may not choose, to do." Pen v.
Bibby, L. R. 3 Eq. 308; S. C.15 Weekly Reporter, 192.
3. If one person is in any case exempt from being sued for
damages for using the same machine for the making and sell-

BIRDSELL v. SHATLIOL.
Opinion of the Court.

ing of which damages have been recovered against and paid by
another person, it can only be when actual damages have been
paid, and upon the theory that the plaintiff has been deprived
of the same property by the acts of two wrongdoers, and has
received full compensation from one of them. In that view,
the case of the patentee, whose right of property under his
patent had been invaded, would be analogous to that of one
from whom personal pr6perty had been taken.
But, according to the law of England, as well as of America,
the owner of a chaftel, which others have tsken from him and
converted to their own use, is not deprived of his property
therein by recovering judgment for damages against any or ail
6f them, without actual satisfaction by somebody. By the law
of England, indeed, as declared by its courts, upon -technical
grounds, the owner of a chattet, who has recovered judgment
for its value in trover against one of two joint tortfeasors, cannot, although that judgment remains unsatisfied, bring a like
action against the other for the same cause. But, even by that
law, such a judgment against, the one, without satisfaction,
does not vest the property in the chattel in him, or bar a subsequent action against the other for continuing to detain the
chattel. -olroyd
and Littledale, JJ., in MIo'iis v. Robinson,
5 D. & R. 34, 47, 48; S. C 3 B. & C. 196, 206, 207; Brinsrneizd v. ai in, L. R. 6 0. P. 584, and L. R. 7 C. P. 547,
551; Ex pade Drake, 5 Ch. D. 866. In Brinsmead v _Marrhaon, Mr. Justice Willes observed that to say that the nere
obtaining judgment for nominal damages vdsts the property in
the defendant would be an absurdity. L. R. 6 C. P. 588.
' By our law, judgment against one joint trespasser, without
full satisfaction, is no bar to a suit against another for the same
trespass. Lovejoy v. X2uTrrcy, 3 Wall. 1. The reasons are
therefore stronger, if possible, here than in England for holding
that a judgment for nominal damages against one wrongdoer
does not bar a suit against another for a continuance of the
wrong.
The result is, that, in any view of the case, the decree of the
Circuit Court dismissing this bill was erroneous, and must be
.Reversed.

