OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

pass." Mississippi gave its consent to the exercise and enjoyment by this company of its corporate powers within h~r
limits upon the condition, among others, that it should construct and maintain a drawbridge of a particular kind in the
channel of Pearl River where that stream is crossed by the
company's road. That condition not having been performed,
the State has a right to ask the aid of the court in compelling
its performance. And, in granting the relief asked, no right
belonging to the company, under the Constitution or laws of
the United States, has been violated or withheld.
• idgrnen afi."med.

MOFFAT & Another v. UNITED STATES.
MfOFFAT v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE cIRUTrr COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Submitted October 16, 10S4.-Decided October 27, 18S4.

The presumption of the regularity of all proceedings prior to the issue of a
patent for public lands, which is made against collateral attacks by third
parties, does not exist in proceedings where the United States assail the
patent for fraud in their officers in its issue, and seek its cancellation.

The United States do not guarantee the integrity of their officers, nor the
validity of the acts of such, and are not bound by their misconduct or
fraud.
A land patent issued to a fictitious person conveys no title which can be transferred to a person subsequently purchasing.in good faith from a supposed
owner.
The procuring of the issue of a patent at the Land Office by means of false
documents which purport to show official 1roceedings and acts by subordinate officers which are fictitious, is a fraud upon the jurisdiction of the
Land Office, and not a mere presentation of doubtful and disputed testimony. United States v. .Throckrnorton,98 U. S. 61,and Vance v. Burbank, 101 U. S. 514, distinguished.

These were suits to cancel two patentg'of the United States
for land in Colorado, bearing date on the 4th of October, 1873,
and purporting to be issued, one to a person by the name of

MOFFAT v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of Facts.

Philip Quinlan, and the other to a person, by the name of Eli
Turner, upon proof of settlement and improvement by them
under the pre-emption laws. Their cancellation was sought on
the ground that the patentees named were fictitious parties;
that no settlement or improvement on the lands was ever made;
that the documents alleging settlement and improvement were
fabricated by the register and the receiver of the land office of
the district embracing the land covered by the patents, to defraud the government of the property.
The two suits presented substantially the same facts, differing
only as to the parties concerned in the proceedings and the
land patented, and were considered together by the court.
The bill in the first case alleged substantially as follows:
That the register and the receiver of public moneys of the land
office at Pueblo, in Colorado, conspiring to defraud the government of a patent for the land upon the pretext that the
same was due to some person, who had performed the duties
required'of him by the acts of Congress in that behalf, haA
written out in the form prescribed by law, a declaratory statement in the fictitious name of Philip Quinlan, representing that
he had declared his intention to claim the land as a pre-emptioner; and also an affidavit, purporting to be signed by him
and sworn to before the register, stating that he had made a
settlement upon the land, and improved it in good faith, in
order to appropriate it to his exclusive use and benefit, and not
for the purpose of sale or speculation; that he had not, directly
or indirectly, made an agreement with any .person, or in any
manner, whereby the title he might acquire would inure, in
whole or in part, to the benefit of any one except himself;
that they had also prepared an affidavit, purporting to be signed
and sworn to before the register by two other fictitious persons, named Michael Quinlan and Orrin R. Peasley, in which
it was stated, among other things, that the supposed Philip
Quinlain was a single man, over the age of twenty-one years,
a citizen of the United States, and an inhabitant of the land;
that no other person resided thereon entitled to the right of
pre-emption; that he had made a settlement thereon on the
1st of May, 1872, had built a house and made other improve-

26

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

ments, and had lived in the house and made it his exclusive
home from the 15th of May, 1872, to that date, May 8th, 1873,
and had ploughed, fenced, and cultivated eighteen acres of the
same. The bill also alleged that at that time the receiver was
the owner of a certain amount of Agricultural College scrip
issued by the State of Florida; and, for the purpose of locating
the land with it in the name of the said Quinlan, the register
and the receiver had inserted in a blank indorsement his fictitious name and residence, and in that name had located the
-,scrip on the land; and, also, that they had done divers other
acts to cause the plaintiff to believe that the supposed Philip
Quinlan was a real person, who had actually appeared before
them and made the statements and proof, required by law and
the regulations of the land office to entitle him to the preemption of the land, and had sworn to such proof before the
register; that they had prepared duplicate certificates in the
form prescribed by law, setting forth that the said supposed
person, represented by said fictitious name, had located the Agricultural College scrip, and made due proof of his right to preempt said land and receive a patent therefor, and forwarded
one of them to the General Land Office at Washington, and
requested a patent for the land to be issued in the name of the
said supposed person'; that in June, 1873, an agent of the defendant, David H. Moffat, Jr., appeared before the officers of
the said General Land Office and presented to them the other
duplicate certificate, and7 also requested them to issue the
patent desired, and transmit the same to him (the agent); and
that said officers, confiding in the honesty and integrity of the
receiver and the register, and believing the statements contained in the supposed proof forwarded to them, had issued the
patent and transmitted it to said agent. The bill further alleged that no person by the name of Quinlan had ever settled
upon the land, or appeared and presented himself before the
register and the receiver at any time, or made any declaratory
statement or proof of pre-emption, either as a pre-emptor or
witness, and charged that said papers were made by the register and the receiver for the purpose of fraudulently depriving
the United States of their title to the land and vesting the

M1OFFAT v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of Facts.

same in the defendant Moffat; that said Moffat then had the
patent and claimed to hold the legal title by virtue of certain
mesne conveyances, namely: one executed on the 23d day of
May, 1873, in the name of said supposed Philip Quinlan to a
fictitious person by the name of Henry H. Perry, and a conveyance by said fictitious person, dated the 23d day of June,
1873, to himself; that the deeds from said supposed parties and
the patent had been placed on record in the office of the recorder of the county in Colorado where the land was situated,
and constituted a cloud upon the title of the complainant; that
on the 15th of September, 1873, said Mloffat executed a deed
conveying an undivided half of the property covered by the
patent to Robert E. Carr, as trustee, and that the deed was on
record. And the bill charged that the said Moffat was well
aware at the time he received the conveyances and the said
patent, of the fraudulent means by which the patent was obtained; that no valuable consideration passed from Carr to
him; and that Carr also was fully informed that the supposed
pre-emption and proceedings were false and fraudulent. The
plaintiff therefore prayed that the patent might be set aside
and declared void and delivered up to be cancelled, and that
the deeds from Quinlan to Perry, and from Perry to Moffat,
and from Moffat to Carr, might also be adjudged void.
In the second case the bill, as finally amended, alleged a similar conspiracy to defraud the government of a patent for another tract of land in the name of another fictitious person
upon proofs by other supposititious persons, the pretended preemptor being Eli Turner, and the pretended witnesses to prove
compliance with the pre-emption law bing Simeon D. Porter
and Anson Beck. The bill also alleged a conveyance from the
pretended Eli Turner to a fictitious person, by the name of
Thomas Harris, in June, 1873, and a conveyance from Harris
to the defendant Moffat in the same month, and that such proceedings were had, that on the 4th of October, 1873, a patent
was issued for the land in the name of Eli Turner. And the,
bill charged that MNoffat was cognizant of the false and fraudulent character of the alleged pre-emption of Turner, and of the
proofs offered in its support, and prayed, as in the frst case,

28

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Appellants.

that the patent be set aside and cancelled, and the deedg of the
supposed Turnek and Harris be adjudged void.
The defendants answered the bills in both cases,'denying
their material allegations, and the charges of conspiracy and
fraud, to which answers replications werefiled. The testimony
taken fully established the truth of the allegations and charges,
except as to the knowledge by Moffat and Carr of the alleged
frauds ; and the Circuit Court decreed the cancellation of the
patents and the mesne conveyances purporting to pass the title
from the pretended patentees to Moffat, and from him to Carr.
From these decrees the- defendants appealed, and sought a revEirsal on four grounds, which were-substantially as follows:
First. That the evidence .that the patentees were fiBtitious
parties was insufficient to overicome the presumption arising
from the patents themselves, and the certificates of the register
and the receiver;
Second. That as the frauds alleged were committed by public officert, the receiver and the register, the government was
bound by their acts, and the court erred innot giving effect to
the patents and conveyances, so as to protect the defendants
claiming under them;
Third. That Moffat and Carr were innocent purchasers for
value, and, as such, were protected against the consequences
of the alleged fraudulent methods by which the patents were
issued; and
Fourth. That no offer was made in the bill in either case to
return the scrip received by. the government for the land.
.Xr. Z. C. Roekwell for appellants.-I. The decree was not
warranted by the evidence. 'A patent raises a presumption of
an actual grantee which can only be overcome by proof.
Thxnmas v. Wyatt, 31 Missouri, 188. The issue of a patent by
the officer appointed for that purpose presupposes a compliance
with the rules prescribed for that duty. Polks Lessee v. IJ7endall, 9 Cranch, 87; Polk's Lessee v. Wendell, 5 Wheat. 293:II. The entry of the lands and the patent issued by the.government are declarations by it that all the steps required by
law antecedent to the entry of the lands and the issue of the

MOFFAT v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court

patent have been complied with, and the government is conclusively bound by those declarations as against a bona ftde
purchaser for value. Rev. Stat. §§ 2262, 2264; Vance v. Burbank, 101 -U. S. 514; Steele v. Smelting Company, 106 U. S.
447; Srndting Company v. Kemp, 104 U. S. 636; French v.
_ytin, 93 U. S. 169, and cases cited. The principle settled in
Kniox County v. A.pinwall, 21 How. 539, is applicable to and
conclusive of this case. See also Coloma v. Eaves, 92 U. S.
484; .Afarcy v. Oswego, 92 U. S. 637; Humboldt v. long, 92
U. S. 642; Patterson,v. Winn, 11 Wheat. 380, 387; Patterson
v. Jenks, 2 Pet. 216, 237; United States v. Arredondo, 6 Pet.
691, 729. Where one of two innocent persons must suffer by
the deceit of another, he who puts trust and confidence in the
deceiver must lose, rather than a stranger. Carpenter v. Iongan, 16 Wall. 271; 2N. Y. & NW.H. Railroad Company v.
Schuyler, 34 N. Y. 30, 69; CGr-iwold v. Haven, 25 N. Y. 595,
599.-Ill. Defendants below were entitled to be treated as
innocent purchasers for value. The fraud, if any, was practised on the government .by its register and receiver, and the
United States is bound by it. It does not affect Moffat and
Carr. United States v. Throckmorton, 98 U. S. 61, 64. As
to the effect of an official certificate of the register, see Laws
Colorado, ch. xxxii., § 1080; Gallipot v. -fanlove, 1 Scam.
156;
i'therspoon v. J)unean, 4 Wall. 210.-V. No offer is
made in the bill to return the scrip or money received for the
land. This is inequitable, and the decree is wrong and should
be reversed for want of equity in the bill. When the government goes into a court of juftice it is to be treated like any
other litigant, and its rights, with few exceptions, are governed
by the same rules of law that pertain to citizens. The Siren,
7 Wall. 152; Floyd Acceptances, 7 Wall. 666; Brent v. Bank
of TFashington,10 Pet. 569.
XM. Assistant Attarney-General2Maury for appellee.
Mn. JUSTICE FiEu

delivered the opinion of the court.

Re

stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
These cases present the same questions, and may be consid-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

ered together. In our judgment none of the positions of the
appellants justifies our interference with the decrees of the court
below. The presumption as to the regularity of the proceedings which precede the issue of a patent of' the United States
for land, is founded upon the theory that every officer charged
with supervising any part of them, and acting under the obligation of his oath, will do his duty, and is indulged as a protection against collateral attacks of third parties. It may be
admitted, as stated by counsel, that if upon any'state of facts
the patent might have been lawfully issued, the court will presume, as against such collateral attacks, that the facts existed;
but that presumption has no place in a suit by the United
States directly assailing the patent, and seeking its cancellation
for fraud in the conduct of their officers. In such a suit the
burden of proof is undoubtedly, in the first instance, on the
government to show a fatal irregularity or corrupt conduct on
their part; but when a case is established, which, if unexplained,
would warrant a conclusion against them, the burden of proof
is shifted, and they must show such integrity of conduct and
such a compliance with the law as will sustain the patent. Its
validity is, then, determinable, like any other controverted fact,
upon the weight of evidence produced in support of and against
their action.
There was no presumption here in favor of the officers which
the testimony produced by the complainant did not entirely
rebut and overthrow. Numerous witnesses, living in the immediate neighborhood of the land, testified that they were well
acquainted with it, had been frequently upon it, that no one resided there, and that no improvements were made as stated in
the pre-emption papers. They also testified that they never
knew nor heard of persons by the names of the alleged preemptors, nor of the persons whose names were used in the
attempted proof of settlement and cultivation. Neither the
register nor the receiver came forward to disprove the conclusions which this testimony justified, that the pretended preemptors and patentees were fictitious persons. The suggestion
that real parties may have appeared before the register and the
receiver as pre-emptors and witnesses, having the names used,

MOFFAT v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

though usually known by different names, is far-fetched, and
merits no consideration where the fact, with reasonable explanation for the use of the unusual names, was not established,
nor proof adduced of the settlement on, and improvement of,the land. No such attempt was made, and if it had been it
would, according to the evidence received, have signally failed.
The position that, as the frauds charged were committed by
officers of the United States, the court erred in not holding
their acts to be binding, and in not giving to the patents the
force of valid conveyances, is certainly a novel one. The government does not guarantee the integrity of its officers nor the
validity of their acts. It prescribes rules for them, requires an
oath for the faithful discharge of their duties, and exacts from
them a bond with stringent conditions. It also provides penalties for their misconduct or fraud, but there its responsibility
ends. They are but the servants of the law, and, if they depart from its requirements, the government is not bound.
There would be a wild license to crime if their acts, in disregard of the law, were to be upheld to protect third parties, as
though performed in compliance with it. The language used
in the case of Pope's Lessee against Wendell sanctions no such
doctrine. (5 Wheat. 293, 30-.) It was there used with reference to collateral attacks upon patents, in cases where the irregularities were committed by officers in the exercise of their
admitted jurisdiction, and can have no application to the acts
of officers in fabricating documents in the names of persons
having no real existence.
The patents being issued to fictitious parties could not transfer the title, and no one could derive any right under a conveyance in the name of the supposed patentees. A patent to a
fictitious person is, in legal effect, no more than a declaration
that the government thereby conveys the property to no one.
There is, in such case, no room for the application of the dctrine that a subsequent na fRde purchaser is protected. A
subsequent purchaser is bound to know whether there was, in
fact, a patentee, a person once in being, and not a mere myth,
and he will always be presumed to take his conveyance upon
the knowledge of the truth in this respect. To the appliqa-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1884.
Opinion of "the Court.

tion of this doctrine of a bonoIwde purchaser there must be a
genuine instrument having a legal existence, as well as one
appearing on its face to pass the title. It cannot arise on a
forged instrument or one executed to fictitious parties, that is,
to no parties at all, however much deceived thereby the purchaser may be. Even in the case of negotiable instruments,
where the doctrine is carried farthest for the protection of subsequent parties acquiring title to the paper, it cannot be invoked
if the instrument be not genuine, or if it be executed without
authority from its supposed, maker. Floyd's Acceptances, 7
Wall. 666, 676; 2farsk v. Fulton County, 10 Wall. 676, 683.
As to the position that no offer is made in the bills to return
the scrip received for the land, only a word need be said.
The pretended patentees, who axe supposed- to have given the
scrip, being mere myths, having no actual. existence, it would
be idle to offer to return it to them; and for the same reason
they can have no agents to act in their behalf.
._strenuous effort is made by counsel to bring these cases
within the doctrine declared in United States v. Trock-morton,
98 U. S. 61, and Tance v...Bu bank, 101 U. S. 514, but without
success. It was held in those cases that the fraud which will
justify the setting aside of the judgment of a tribunal specially
appointed to determine particular facts, must be such as prevented the unsuccessful party from fully presenting his case,
or which operated as an imposition upon the jurisdiction of the
tribunal. MWere false testimony, or forged documents, are not
enough if the disputed matter has been actually presented to
and considered by the tribunal. Here officers, constituting a
special tribunal, enteied into a conspiracy; and the frauds consist of documents which they had fabricated, and presented
with their judgment to those having appellate and supervisory
authority in such matters ; and thus a fictitious proceeding was
imposed upon the latter as one Which had actaally taken place.
It was a fraud upon the jurisdiction of the officers of the Land
Department at Washington, and not the mere presentation to
them of doubtful and disputed testimony.
Decrees afrmed.

