'OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

ances of the government-that by a direct legislative act, and
that by officers acting under provisions of the statute-it would
ceem that there should be greater weight and dignity attached
to the legislative grant as proceeding more immediately from
the source of title than the patent. No impeachment can be
had of the motives of the legislature whereas the motives of
officers employed to supervise the alienation of public lands
may sometimes be questioned, as in proceedings to set aside
their action. Still, if the law be complied with, the title
passes as completely in the one case as in the other. Xaontgomery v. Bevanvs, 1 Sawyer, 653, 677.
Judgment affirmed.

KNICKERBOCKER LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
PENDLETON{ & Others.

.

IN ERROR TO THE CIRCm T COURT OF TE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Argued November 11, 1884.-Decided January 5, 1885.
Policy of iife insurance being conditioned to be void if the annual premium,
or any obligation given in payment thereof, should not be paid at maturity;
and the annual premium being paid by a foreign bill drawn by the party
insured, with a condition that if not paid at maturity the policy should be
void: Held, That the forfeiture was incurred by non-payment of the bill,
on presentment, at maturity, without protest for non-payment, althqugh
protest might be necessary to fix the liability of the drawer. Sermble, if it
had been the bill of a stranger, protest would have been necessary for the
forfeiture also.
Presentment and non-acceptance of the bill before maturity, without protest,
did not dispense with presentment for payment, in order to produce the
forfeiture.
Want of funds in the hands of the drawee was no excuse for not presenting
the bill, if the drawer had reasonable expectation to believe that it would
be accepted and paid.
Preliminary proof of death not required, if the insurer, on being notified
thereof, denies his liability altogether, and declares that the insurance will
not be paid.

LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. PENDLETON.

697

Statement of Facts.
This action was brought in the First Circuit Court of Shelby
County, -Tennessee, by the defendants in error, Pleasant H.
Pendleton and others, against the plaintiff in error, the Knickerbocker Life Insurance Company, to recover the amount of a
policy of life insurance on the life of Samuel H. Pendleton.
After declaration filed the case was removed into the Circuit Court of the United States, and the defendant then pleaded
no indebtedness, failure to pay the stipulated annual premium,
failure to pay a draft given for premium, and failure to give
notice and proof of death. A replication put the cause at issue, and it was tried at Memphis, in November Term, 1880, and
a verdict rendered for the plaintiff. Judgment being entered
upon this verdict, the case was brought here by writ of error.
The matters for the consideration of this court were exhibited
in a bill of exceptions taken at the trial, from which it appeared that the plaintiff introduced in evidence the policy sued
on, dated July 14, 1870, issued for the benefit of the plaintiffs;
as the children of Samuel H. Pendleton, for the sum of 810,000 on his life, in consideration of $364.60 then paid, and of
the annual premium of a like sum .o be paid on or before the,
14th day of July in every year, during the continuance -pf the
policy. The company agreed to pay the sum insured within
three months after due notice and satisfactory proof of the
death of the person whose life was insured; but the policy
contained the following condition, to wit: "The omission to
pay the said annual premium on or before twelve o'clock noon
on the day or days above designated for the payment thereof,
or failure to pay at maturity any note, obligation, or indebtedness (other than the annual credit or loan) for premium or interest hereon, shall then and thereafter cause this policy to be
void, without notice to any party or parties interested herein."
The plaintiffs next introduced in evidence the renewal receipt, in the words and figures following, viz.:
Renewal Re.eeipt.
"Mississippi Valley Branch Office of. the Knickerbocker
Life Insurance Company at Memphis, Tenn., principal office
161 Broadway, N. Y., renewal No. 94,591.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.
NEw YoRK, July 14, 1871.

Received of Pleasant H. Pendleton, &c., three hundred &
sixty-four 65-100 dollars, being the premium on policy No.
2346, which is hereby continued in force until the fourteenth
'day of July 1872, at noon.
~ Not valid until countersigned .ythe managers of the
Mississippi Valley Branch office at Memphis, Tenn.
ERASTus L=x,
GEO. F.

Countersigned at Memphis this

-45,432.]

P'resident."

GRIFFIN, Secretary.

day oi

18

GREE' E & LucAs, .ifanagers."

The plaintiffs then introduced evidence tending to show that
Samuel H. Pendleton died at his home, near Auburn, Arkahsas, on the 26th day of March, 1872; that his children, the
plaintiffs, were then under age; and that their uncles, A. 0.
Douglass arid W. F. Douglass, on their behalf, wrote from,
Auburn to Greene & Lucas, the agents of the defendants at
Memphis, the former on the 29th of March, and the latter on
the 2d of April, 1872, giving them notice of Pendleton's death.
A. 0. Douglass, in his letter, requested Greene & Lucas to
advise him what steps were necessary to be taken in the matter of the policy, and Greene & Lucas at once answered, by
letter dated April 2d, that the policy became forfeited on the
14th of October, 1871, by failure to pay the premium, explaining that when the premium became due, they took the draft of
Doctor S. H. Pendleton on Moses Greenwood & Son- of New
Orleans, at three months, in lieu of the cash, conditioned that
failure to pay the draft would forfeit the policy; and that
Greenwood & Son refused to accept the draft and refused to
pay it at maturity. The correspondence was continued by an
additional letter from IV. F. Douglass to the agents, dated
April 9th, and a reply to the same, by the latter, dated April
15, 1872,
t.Z repeating their position that the policy was forfeited
and void, and that there was no legal claim to the insurance.
The defendants below, after an unsuccessful motion for a
nonsuit, put in evidence the following draft, given by Samuel

LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. PENDLETON.

699

Statement of Facts.

H. Pendleton in part payment of the premium which became
due July 14, 1871:
"$325.00.
AvBurw, ArK., July 14th, 1871.
Three months after date, without grace, pay to the order of
the Knickerbocker Life Insurance Co. three hundred and
twenty-five dollars, value received, for premium on policy No.
2346, which policy shall become void if this draft is not paid
at maturity.
[Signed]
S. I. PENDLETON.
To Moses Greenwood & Son, New Orleans, La."
Evidence was then introduced by the defendants tending to
show that the draft was transmitted by the agents of the company, through the Union and Planters' Bank of Memphis, to
the Louisiana National Bank of New Orleans, to be presented
for acceptance, and was received by the latter bank and presented on the 29th of September, 1871; that acceptance was
refused by Moses Greenwood & Son, the drawees, assigning as
the reason of their refusal that they had no advice; that no
protest of the draft for non-acceptance was made, because it
was marked "no protest;" but that it was returned, on the
30th of September, to the Union and Planters' Bank of Memphis; that it was again transmitted to the Louisiana National
Bank, on the 5th of October, 1871, for collection, but was not
paid when it became due, and, for the same reason as before,
no protest for non-payment was made, and it was returned to
the Union and Planters' Bank on the 17th of November, 1871.
No direct evidence of presentment to the drawees for payment
was given; but the cashier of the Louisiana National Bank
testified that, according to their rules and custom of doing
business, it must have been presented for payment when due.
Evidence was further introduced tending to show that, on or
about the 3d of October, 1871, when the draft was first returned from New Orleans, the agents, Greene & Lpcas, informed S. H. Pendleton, by letter, of its non-acceptance; and
again, on or about the 20th of November, 1871, they informed
him in the same way of its non-payment; that in the latter

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

part of November, or early in December, 1871, he (Pendleton)
called on said agents, and expressed surprise that Greenwood
& Co. did not pay his draft, but said that they were then prepared to pay it; that the said agents informed him that, as the
policy was lapsed by reason of the non-payment of the draft, it
would be necessary, in order to reopen the same, that he should
be re-examined; and Uhat he promised to call again, but never
did; also, that the dealings of the insurance company in reference to the issue of the policy and the payments of premiums
thereon, were solely with the said S. H. Pendleton.
Moses Greenwood, of the firm of Moses Greenwood & Son,
a-witness on the part of the plaintiffs, testified to the effect
that his firm were cotton factors and commission merchants,
and acted as such for S. HI. Pendleton, in 1869, 1870, and 1871,
furnishing him supplies for his plantation and selling his cotton
crops; and kept a running account with him; and were accustomed to accept and pay his drafts even when he had no
money or property in their hands, so that he had good reason
to believe that the draft in question would be honored. The
witness presented a copy of the account of his firm with S. H.
Pendleton, which showed a balance in his favor on the 14th of
July, 1871, of about $200, but a balance against him on the
14th of October, 1871, of $502.52. The witness stated that he
found no entry of the acceptance or payment of the draft
in question, and had no recollection of it other than what was
shown by the books and by certain letters from the firm to
Pendleton. One of these letters, dated September 29, 1871,
informed him (Pendleton) that his draft for lre policy (some
$330) was presented that clay for acceptance; that, having no
advice of it, they had requested that it be held till they got an
answer from him, and asked him to write at once if he wanted
it paid. The other letter, dated November 4, 1871, acknowledged one from him (Pendleton) of the 27th October, and
added, "Will pay that insurance note when presented, as you
request. This is the first advice we have had about it."
After the evidence was closed the defendant below (the insurance company), through its counsel, requested the court to
direct the jury to find a veidict in favor of the defendant on

LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. PENDLETON.

701

Statement of Facd.
the ground that the policy sued on was not in force at the time
of the death of the person whose life was insured thereby.
The court refused to give such direction, and the defendant
excepted.
The defendant then requested the court to give the following
several instructions to the jury:
1. That upon the undisputed facts appearing from the evidence the defendant is entitled to a verdict.
2. That the reception of this draft for $325 by the defendant on account of premium, imposed upon the drawer or the
plaintiffs the duty of making absolute provision for its payment at maturity at the place of payment, and if he or they
failed to do so, the defendant was under no obligation to present the same for payment.
3. That the refusal of the drawees to accept the draft when
presented for acceptance relieved the defendant from its obligation, if any existed, to present the same for payment in the
absence of further notice that the same would be paid when due.
4. That if they believed from the evidence either that the
drawer had not placed any funds in the hands of the drawees
to meet the draft at its maturity, or that it was in fact presented for payment at or after its maturity, the policy became
void and of no effect upon the death of the party whose life was
insured thereby, and the plaintiffs are not entitled to recover.
The court refused so to charge, and the defendant excepted.
Thereupon the court proceeded to charge the jury upon the
whole case; but it will only be,necessary to present the folowing extracts, in which the court finds that the charge was
erroneous, and upon which the whole case depends.
"The defence of the company is that the condition for payment has been violated, and the policy ceased before the death
of Pendleton. This is undoubtedly a good defence unless the
law imposed some obligation on the company to perform some
duty in respect to the draft which it has not performed, and
the neglect of which precludes it from invoking the breach of
the condition for payment as a defence. In other words, if by
its own laches, and neglect of the duty assumed by it as holder
of the draft, the failure to pay has occurred, or the parties have

OCTOBER TERMI, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

been injured, the company cannot rely on the breach of this
condition as a defence. What, then, were the duties imposed
on the company as the holder of this draft by the contract of
the parties ?

.

.

I have concluded that the true measure

of the duty of the company is to be found in the rules of law
governing a holder of commercial paper, and that by the very
fact of taking a draft like this they assumed, in reference to
this paper, all the duties devolving on a holder of it taken for
any other consideration, and were obliged to proceed with it as
any holder would be, under the commercial law. On the other
hand, any neglect to proceed properly in the discharge of that
duty would be excused under the same circumstances as such
neglect would be excused with any other holder, and not otherwise. The condition in the policy was a security to the company, of which it can avail itself only by showing a strict
compliance with that duty, or some lawful excuse for non-compliance."
"There is no doubt the draft was sent forward for acceptance, presentment, and acceptance refused.

.

.

.

It was

not protested for non-acceptance, the agents of the company
having directed that no protest should be made, and no legal
or proper notice of non-acceptance was given to the drawer.
This was a clear breach of duty on the part of the company,
and precludes it from claiming a forfeiture of the policy unless
excused, as to which I shall instruct you further on. If protest
and legal notice had been given for non-acceptance, the company need not have presented for non-payment; but, not havinig protested the note for non-acceptance, it was its duty to
present at maturity and demand payment. There is some dispute as to whether the note was presented for payment on the
day of its maturity, namely, October 14, 1871, or later, but
there is no claim that it was protested for non-payment and
legal notice given. The only notice was a letter from the
agents, dated November 20, 1871. This was rot legal notice,
and the drawer was clearly discharged unless the neglect was
excused. By this neglect, as well as the neglect to protest and
give legal notice for non-acceptance, the company precluded
itself from relying on a breach of the condition in the policy."

LIFE INSURANCE COM1PANY v. PENDLETON.

703

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Xr. Leslie IF. Russell for plaintiff in error.-Proof of death
should have been furnished as required by the policy. Notice
alone was not sufficient. Taylor v. Etna Life Ins. Co., 13
Gray, 434; Davis v. Davis, 49 Maine, 282; Hineken v. lutdual
Beneft Ins. Co., 50 N. Y. 657. The question of waiver was
for the court. The contract was broken by the assured, and
was not in force at the time of his death. The premium was
not paid when it became due. The draft given was not paid.
On its face it showed that the policy was to become void if the
draft was not paid. Being a time draft no presentment for acceptance before maturity was necessary. Banke of Washington
v. Trid)lett, 1 Pet. 25; Townsley v. Surnrall, 2 Pet. 170. Nor
was a protest for non-acceptance necessary. The laws of
Arkansas, where the contract was made, govern. Slacura v.
Ponery, 6 Cranch, 221; Bank of the United States v. United
States, 2 How. 711. The Arkansas statutes enforce no special
duties. TLev confirm the law merchant. The decisions of this
court will be governed by the general law merchant. Swft v
Tyson, 16 Pet. 1. It is well settled that no particular form 6f
notice is necessary, and that it need not even be in writing.
Cuyler v. Stevens, 4 Wend. 566; Boyd's Adrnrs. v. Savings
Bank, 15 Gratt. 501; Cayuga Bank v. Warden, 1 N. Y. 413;
3fills v. Bank of United States, 11 Wheat. 431. And where
the notice is received, its mode of transmission is immaterial.
Hyslop v. Jonei, 3 McLean, 96; Bank United States v. Corcoran, 2 Pet. 121. This court has laid down the rule that
protest for non-accqptance need not be shown in proceedings
for non-payment. Brown v. Barry, 3 Dallas, 365; Clarke v.
Riewsell, 3 Dallas, 415. As to presentation for payment at
maturity there is no finding ox the subject, and it was not
necessary. The draft was for the accommodation of the drawer.
Notice of non-acceptance having been given him, a demand
for payment at maturity as against him was not necessary.
Walker v. Stetson, 19 Ohio St. 400; Exeter Bank v. Gordon, 8
N. H. 66; Platov. Reynolds, 27 N. Y. 586; Watson v. Tdrpley,
18 How. 517. As he had no, rnds in the drawee's hands no
demand was necessary, unless he was justified in expecting it
would be paid. Dickins v. Beal, 10 Pet. 572. In this case he

7O01

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

knew it would not be paid. See 1Rhett v. Poe, 2 How. 451;
Valk v. Simmons, 4 Mason, 113. The drawer suffered no
injury from non-presentment for payment; or if he was injured the injury was waived. The request to present the draft
again for payment, made after knowledge that he had received
no protest, was a waiver of all informalities. 7Ifatthews v.
Allen, 16 Gray, 594; Thornton v. Mynn, "12 Wheat. 183;
Sigerson v. .fatthews, 20 How. 496. The draft was not a payment, and the premium was never paid. The giving a receipt
makes no difference. It may always be shown that no money
was actually received. Bradford v. -Fox,38 N. Y. 289. Retaining, the draft did not affect the question.
NTichols v.
X3ihald, 23 N. Y. 264. The7 draft shows that it was not tc
be received as payment unless itself paid. .Roehner v. .Kniek
erbocker Life Ins. Co., 63 N. Y. 160.
.Xr. D. H. Poston and Xr. W. K. Poston,for defendants in
error.-The letters from plaintiff's uncles were both notices
and proofs of death within the meaning of the policy. They
were treated by the company as a sufficient compliance, and
even if not such, further compliance was waived. Upon no
proper rule of construction, can the words "satisfactory proof"
be held to mean sworn proofs. This court, in a case where the
policy stipulated to pay "ninety days after due notice and satisfactory evidence of death," ruled that the proof need only be
as to the sole fact of death. Insurance Co. v. Rndel, 95 U. S.
232. To the same effect is the case of insurance Co. v. Schwenk,
94 U. S. 593. So in Massachusetts it was decided that only
such proof as was required by the policy was necessary, and
that neither the usage of the particular company, nor the general usage and understanding of insurance companies generally,
could determine what should be necessary, unless plaintiff knew
or had notice of it when he took the policy. Taylor v. .Etna
Life Insurance Co., 13 Gray, 434. It is true that it has been
decided that such a stipulation of the policy requires sworn
proofs, as in O'JReilly v. G'uardian Ins. Co., 60 N. Y. 169.
But that is an unsatisfactory solution. The question being unsettled in this court, we insist upon the construction hereinbefore

LIFE INSURANCE COMKPANY v. PENDLETON.

705

Opinion of the Court.

contended for as the proper logical and reasonable construction.
The proposition that such a state of facts as appears in this
record establishes a waiver of preliminary proofs is supported
by an overwhelming weight of authority. We cite from this
court Tayloe v. .3ifereltants'.FireIns. Co., 9 How. 390; Insurance Co. v. IVT,'reh ,use Co., 93 U. S. 527, 546 ; Columbia Life
Ins. Co. v. Law renee, 10 Pet. 507. The letter relied upon as
notice of the dishonor of the draft for non-acceptance was not
a valid notice. A notice given before dishonor is premature.
2 Daniel Negotiable Instruments, § 1035, 3d Ed. 87. If valid
otherwise, it was not posted in time. Bank qf Alexandria, v.
Swan), 9 Pet. 33; 2 Daniel Negotiable Instruments, § 1039, 3d
Ed. p. 90. Coming from the drawee it was invalid. Stanton
v. Blossom, 14 Mass. 116. The proposition that the law of Arkansas governs is not sustained by authority. The law of the
place of payment governs. Pierce v. Indseth, 106 U. S. 546.
See Bird v. Bank, 93 U. S. 96; .unn, v. Lake, 4 How. 263.
Pendleton had the right to draw, and reasonable ground to
expect that his draft would be honored. Where a bill is not
received in absolute payment of a debt the failure to present,
and, in case of dishonor, to properly notify the drawer, releases him both on the draft and on the original debt. Daniel
Negotiable Instruments, § 1276; Smith v. Afiller, 43 N. Y. "171.
Where forfeiture of a policy of insurance is claimed for non-payment of the premium, and the failure to pay was caused by the
o,,iission of the company to do some precedent act, which it
had either agreed to do, or even by its usual course of dealing
induced the assured to believe it would do, ther it is estopped
to claim the forfeiture. ]hszrance Co. v. Eggleston, 96 U. S.
572; Jnsurance Co. v. Doster, 106 U. S. 30. The conduct of one
par ty to a contract, which prevents the other from performing
his part, is an excuse for non-performance. United States v.
Pek, 102 U. S. 64; Young v. H7unter, 6 N. Y. 203.
MR. JUSTIcE BRALEY delivered the opinion of the court.
He recited the facts as above stated, and continued:
The court instructed the jury, in substance and effect, that
the insurance company, having accepted the draft or bill of
VOL. czi-45

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

Dr. Pendleton on his factors for the premium due on the policy,
was in duty bound to pursue all the steps iecessary to enable
it to recover against him as drawer of said draft or bill, regarded as a bill of exchange under the law merchant-amongst
-whichsteps one was that of protesting the bill for non-acceptance, and another, that of protesting it for non-payment. The
court held that, whilst it was not necessary that the draft
should have been presented for acceptance before maturity,
yet that, having been so presented, and acceptance refused, the
defendants ought to have had it regularly protested, and notice
of dishonor given to the drawer. The court further held, that
if the draft was presented for payment, and not paid, the defendants were bound to have had it regularly protested for
True, it was conceded, that the defendants
non-payment.
might be excused from the performance of these duties if it
were shown that the drawer had no funds in the hands of his
factors, and had no reasonable expectation that his draft could
be accepted. But, unless this excuse could be established, the
doctrine of the charge was, that the defendants must have complied with all the before-mentioned formalities incident to commercial paper, in order to entitle them to the benefit of the
condition for avoiding the policy.
As the drawer of the bill in this case was really interested in
the policy on behalf of his children, we do not concur in the
view taken by the court below, that a forfeiture of the policy
required, on the part of the insurance company, as holders of
the bill, the same diligence, and performance of the same acts,
as were required of them to make the drawer liable upon it.
For the latter purpose a regular protest for non-acceptance, or
non-payment, or a proper excuse for omitting them, such as
want of funds in the hands of the drawees, was undoubtedly
necessary; for, according to the general law prevailing in this
country, the draft was a foreign bill of -exchange, being drawn
by a person resident in one State upon persons resident in
another. Buckner v. Finley, 2 Pet. 586, 589; Dickns v.
Beal, 10 Pet. 572, 579 ; Story on Bills, § 23, 465 ; 1 Daniel
But whether the policy
Negotiable Instruments, §§ 6-9.
would not be forfeited without any such protest, or excuse

LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. PENDLETON.

707

Opinion of the Court.
for non-protest, is a different question, depending upon the
contract of the parties. This contract was expressed on the
face of the draft itself, which contained a statement that it was
given for premium on policy No. 2,346, followed by this condition: " which policy shall become void if this draft is not
paid at maturity." This was the condition and the only condition on which the policy was to become void. The primary
condition expressed in the policy itself, of forfeiture for nonpayment of the premium on the day it became due, was waived
by the receipt of the draft, and the consequent extension of the
time thereby. The renewal receipt given when the draft was
received was absolute, it is true, acknowledging the receipt of
the premium, and declaring the policy continued in force for
another year. But this receipt is explained by the actual
transaction, the mode of payment being shown to be the making and delivery of the draft in question, having in it the condition above expressed, which condition was in exact accordance with the secondary condition contained in the policy,
namely, "failure to pay at maturity any note, obligation, or
indebtedness (other than the annual credit or loan) for premium
or interest hereon, shall then and thereafter cause this policy
to be void, without notice to any party or parties interested
herein." We think it clear, therefore, that, notwithstanding
the renewal receipt, the condition expressed in the draft was
binding on the insured. As we have shown, that condition
was that the policy should become void if the draft was not
paid at maturity. The draft, being without grace, matured an
the 14th of October, 1871. If not paid on that day the policy
was forfeited, unless it was the usage of the New Orleans banks
to grant days of grace even when they were waived, of which
there was some evidence on the trial. In such case the forfeiture would take place, if the draft were not paid on the 11th
of October. Of course, it must be presented for payment on
the one day or the other-for the drawees could not pay it
unless it was presented, for they would not know where to
find it. But supposing it to have been presented for payment,
ana payment refused by the drawees, then the condition of
forfeiture was complete. Protest and notice of non-payment

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

might be further necessary to hold the drawer, if the insurance
company desired to hold him; but they were not necessary to
the forfeiture. That occurred when non-payment at maturity
or presentation occurred. The drawer, Pendleton, who took
entire charge of the policy for his children, put its existence on
the condition of payment of the draft at maturity; and it was
his business, as agent or guardian of his children, to see that
the draft was thus paid ;-that the requisite funds were in the
hands of the drawees, or that they would pay it whether in
funds or not. Such, we think, was the clear purport of the
condition, and as the court below took a different view, holding
that the insurance company was bound not only to present the
draft for payment, but to have it protested for non-payment,
before a forfeiture of the policy would ensue,' the judgment
must be reversed.
What might have been the result had the bill of a stranger been
taken in payment of the premium, is a different question which
we are not now called upon to decide. It may be that in such
a case the company would have been required to take all the
steps necessary to fix the liability of all the parties to the bill.
With regard to the other points raised by the plaintiffs
in error a few'words will suffice.
1. They contended at the trial, and contend here, that
no presentment of the draft was necessary, because Pendleton
had no funds in the hands of the drawees. The substance and
effect of the charge given by the court on this point was, that
it Pendleton had a reasonable expectation that the draft would
be accepted and paid; as if there was an agreement between
him and the drawees, that they would accept his drafts, or a
course of dealing between them in which the drawees were accustomed to accept his drafts without reference to the state of
their mutual accounts, he was entitled to demand and notice;
or, according to our view of the principal point in the case, the
insurance company was bound to present the draft for payment
at its maturity. In this we think there was no error. The
law is laid down substaitially to the same effect in Dicn8 v.
Beal, 10 Pet. 572, 577; and see 2 Daniel Negotiable Instruments, § 1074.

LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. PENDLETON.

709

Opinion of the Court.
2. The plaintiffs in error contend that as the draft was not
accepted by the drawees when presented for acceptance, they
were under no obligation to present it for payment at maturity.
This would be so in an ordinary case of non-acceptance of a
bill, provided it was followed up by protest and notice. But
this particular draft, or bill, had a condition in it, that the
policy should be void if it were not paid at maturity, and the
plaintiffs in error claimed the benefit of this condition. As
forfeitures upon condition broken are to be strictly construed,
the condition in this case could not be regarded as broken by
the non-acceptance of the bill before maturity; but could only
be broken by non-payment at maturity. The drawees might
not have felt authorized to accept the hill when it was presented; and yet, when it came to maturity, in consequence of
further advice from the drawer, or other reasons, they might
be ready and willing to pay it. The holders of the policy were
entitled to this opportunity of obviating a forfeiture. We are
of opinion, therefore, that the court below was right in holding
that a presentment for payment was necessary notwithstanding
the non-acceptance.
3. The plaintiffs in error further contend that the charge was
erroneous in holding that no formal proof of the death of S. H.
Pendleton was necessary in this case. On this point the charge
was as follows: "As to the proof of loss not being filed, it is
conceded notice of the death was given. If, when that was
done, the agents of the company repudiated all liability, and
informed the parti-s that the policy had lapsed, then no proof
of loss was required by them, and the failure to file it cannot
alter the case." We think that there was no error in this instruction. The weight of authority is in favor of the rule, that
a distinct denial of liability and refusal to pay, on the ground
that there is no contract, or that there is no liability, is a waiver
of the condiion requiring proof of the loss or death. It
is equivalent to a declaration that they will not pay, though
the proof be furnished. Tayloe V. .ferehan' Fire Insurrnee
Co., 9 How. 390, 403; Alkgre v. .3faryland InJuraneo Co., 6 H.
& J. 408; Norwick & N. Y. Tran prtation Co. v. Teslote
.Ma8s. Insurance Co., 3d Conn. 561; Thwing v. G eat Wetern

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

Insurance Co., 111 Mass. 92, 110; Brink v. Hanover Fire Insurance Co., 80 N. Y. 108; May on Insurance, § 468, 469.
1 The preliminary proof of loss or death required by. a policy
Is intended for the security of the insurers in paying the amount
insured. If they refuse to pay at all, and base their refusal
upon some distinct ground without reference to the want of
defect of the preliminary proof, the occasion for it ceases, and it
will be deemed to be waived. And this can work no prejudice
to the insurers, for in an action on the policy the plaintiff would
be obliged to prove the death of the person whose life was insured, whether the preliminary proofs were exhibited or not.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the cause
remanded with directions to award a new trial.

POWER & Another v. BAKER & Another.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TEE
DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
Submitted November 24, 1884.-Decided December 15, 1884.

Motions to vacate a supersedeas, and other motions of that kind, made before the
record is printed, must be accompanied by a statement of the facts on which
they rest, agreed to by the parties, or supported by printed copies of so much
of the record as will enable the court to act understandingly, without reference to the transcript on file.

This was a motion to vacate a supersedeas.
.X.

:. H

Davidson for the motion.

Mr. -EdwardG. Rogers opposing.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

Neither the record in this case, nor the part thereof on which
this motion depends, has been printed, and the appellees have
neglected to state in their motion papers the facts as presented
by the transcript on which they rely. An affidavit has been
filed to the effect that the appellees were not served with a

