OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

PUGH v. FAIRIOUNT GOLD & SILVER MINING
COMPANY & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNI'IED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Argued October 22, 1884.-Decided November 10 1884.

If holders of notes of a corporation, secured by a mortgt
vf its realty, agree
to convert their notes into stock upon a condition -which fails, the right to

foreclose the mortgage is not affected by the agreement.

This was a bill filed on November 26, 1875, by Thomas Hare
and Jonathan H. Pugh, trustees, to foreclose a mortgage executed to them on August 22, 1870, by the Fairmount Gold and
Silver Mining Company, to secure the bond of the company for
$17,000. It appears from the record that at the date of the
mortgage the mining company was indebted to various persons,
who held its promissory notes- or certificates of indebtedness,
given and bearing date between August 4, 1868, and May 20,
1870, and amounting in the aggregate to $16,387.05, all bearing interest at the rate of six per cent. per annum. To secure
the payment of this indebtedness to the holders of the notes,
the mining company, on August 22, 1870, executed a bond of
that date to Hare and Pugh in the penal sum of $34,000, conditioned for the payment to them at the expiration of one year
from date of the sum of $17,000, with interest at the rate of six
per cent. per annum, payable half yearly in gold. This bond
was secured by the mortgage which the suit was brought to
foreclose, bearing the same date, and conveying to Hare and
Pugh certain mines, a mill site, mill and machinery in Clear
Creek County, Coloralo. Contemporaneously with the execution of the bond and mortgage, Hare and Pugh executed a
declaration of trust to the effect tbat they held the bond and
mortgage in trust for the benefit of the holders of the'notes of
the mining company above mentioned, and that if the mining
company should pay off the notes the bond and mortgage
should be taken as paid and satisfied, and should be cancelled.
The"bill averred that the bond was due and wholly unpaid, and
prayed a foreclosure of the mortgage.

PUGH v. FAIRMOUNT MI[NING COMPANY..

239

Statement of Facts.

John W. Thackara, Gilbert B. Reed, and others, who, it
was alleged, claimed some interest in the mortgaged premises
as judgment creditors or otherwise, were made defendants to
the bill.
It appeared from the record that the defendant Thackara
had be6n superintendent of the mine and general agent of the
mining company in Colorado, and was a stockholder. He held
by purchase some of the notes or certificates of indebtedness
secured by the mortgage issued to other parties, and held other
notes issued subsequent to the mortgage to himself for his salary, &c. Prior to the institution of this suit. to wit on the 22d
day of March, 1873, Thackara began suit against the mining
company on his notes and a book account, caused a writ of attachment to be issued against the mining company, and on the
13th day of January, 1875, recovered a judgment for $23,44.12. Upon a sale under execution issued on this judgment, all
the real and pers6nal property of the mining company, including that covered by the mortgage, was sold to Thackara for
the sum of $24,873.01, and he assigned the certificate of purchase to the defendant Reed, to whom a sheriff's deed was executed December 15, 1875. It was conceded that'Reed had
succeeded to all the rights and Interests of Thackara. The bill
was dismissed as to Thackara, and Reed substituted as defendant in his place.
Reed, by his answer, admitted the execution of the mortgage
mentioned in the bill to secure the payment of notes made by
the mining company, the sum secured by the mortgage not to
exceed $17,000. He set up title to the mortgaged premises,
claiming under the sheriff's deed executed to him under the
sale made to Thackara. He averred that all the notes which
had been secured by the bond and mortgage executed to Hare
and Pugh, except two held by Samuel Nelson, one for $25 and
the other for $150, and one held by W. B. Wharton for $100,
had either been transferred to Thackara, and were included in
the amount of his judgment against the mining company, or
had been converted into stock of the mining company and surrendered, and were thus satisfied. Neither the mining company
nor any of the other defendants made any defence to the suit,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

and decrees p ro confesso were taken against them. The answer
of Reed was put in issue by replication. Upon final hearing
on the pleadings and evidence, the Circuit Court dismissed the
bill, and the complainant Pugh (Hare having died pending the
suit), appealed.
2fr. JoU .-M' Ross (Mr. A11,9 D)ean was with him), for appellant.
Xr1. J H. _Y Gowan (_1r:.A. T. Britton and
BTrowne were with him) for appellee.

r. A. B.

MR. JusTIcE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.

He

stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
It is clear that the complainant was entitled to a decree of
foreclosure unless the grounds of defence alleged by the respondent Reed were well taken.
The first of these was, that the directors of the mining'company, who executed the bond and mortgage, did so without
authority, and the bond and mortgage were therefore null and
void. It is a sufficient reply to the defence to say that no issue
is taken by the answer upon the averment of the bill that the
bond and mortgage were executed alid delivered by the proper
officers of the mining company. On the contrary, the answer
admits that "the said mining company, by its officers, on the
date aforesaid, made, executed, and delivered to complainants,
as trustees, a certain bond," describing the bond mentioned in
the bill, "and that to secure the said sum of seventeeA thousand
dollars mentioned in said bond, the said Fairmount Gold and
Silver Mining Company, by its officers, made the mortgage in
said bill mentioned and upon the property in the bill of complaint described to the complainants." These admissiQus preclude the defence set up for the first time at the hearing, that
the officers were not authorized to execute the bond and mortgage. The defendant having admitted the execution of the
mortgage by the officers of the company, the complainant had
the right to rely on the admission, and was not bound to
prove it.

PUGH v. FAIRMOUNT MINING COMPANY.

241

Opinion of the Cout.
The other defence relied on was based on the allegation that
the notes which the mortgage was given to secure had been
satisfied, except those held by Nelson and Wharton, and these
the defendant Reed offered to pay. The facts upon which this
defence rests are as follows. On February 8, 1873, the board
of directors of the mining company passed the' following resolution:
"1.Resolved, That the board of directors authorize the conversion of certain outstanding and unpaid certificates of indebtedness of the Fairmount Gold and Silver Mining Company, being
numbered from 1 to 87, both numbers inclusive, and Nos. 89 to
100, both numbers inclusive, into stock of the said company, at
the par value thereof, upon the surrender of the said certificates
of indebtedness by the holders thereof: Provided that the
holders of the said certificates of indebtedness convert the same
into stock of the said company, at the par value thereof, within
ten days from the date of the passage of this resolution, and all
the holders convert."
The certificates of indebtedness mentioned in this resolution
were the notes which the mortgage was given to secure. It is
insisted by the defendant Reed that all the notes of the company, except those held by Thackara, Nelson, and Wharton,
were converted into stock under the provisions of the foregoing
resolution and were thereby satisfied, and that the notes held
by Thackara, being merged in the judgment recovered by him,
were satisfied by the sale of the company's property under execution, and as he offers to pay the notes held by Nelson and
Wharton, there should be no decree of foreclosure.
The record does not sustain the assumption of the defendant.
On the contrary, it appears that there never was any conversion
of notes secured by the mortgage into the stock of the company. It was a condition of the resolution passed by the directors, under which the conversion is alleged to have taken
place, that none of the notes were to be converted unless all
were converted. The purposes of the resolution were plain,
namely, to relieve the company of its embarrassments by providing for the conversion of its debts into stock. In order
that this might be done and no advantage taken by one credvoL. cxn-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

itor over the others, the conversion of notes into stock was to
take effect only on the condition that all the creditors consented, and that the conversion was made within ten days.
This provision in the resolution was necessary to prevent a part
of the creditors, after some had converted their notes into
stock, from seizing the property of the company, and applying
it to the payment of their own debts, to the exclusion of other
creditors. A large part of the creditors surrendered their notes
and took stock in their stead. But this conversion was conditional, and the notes so exchanged were not cancelled, because
the conditions upon which the conversion was to take place
were never complied with.
Other holders of notes, among whom was Thackara, refused
to convert their notes into stock; and thus the whole scheme
fell through. The defendant Reed, who claims under Thackara, insists that all the creditors who surrendered their notes
shall lose their debts, and that the notes held by Thackara
.shall'take the entire property of the company. He thus insists upon a result which the resolution of the directors was
'cautiously framed to prevent. As soon as the ten days prescribed by this resolution had expired, and it appeared that all
the holders of notes secured by the mortgage of the mining
company had not converted them into stock, those who had
offered to convert were remitted to their rights as creditors of
the company. A mortgage creditor, who had refused to convert, could not, by assuming that the property of the company
was released from the mortgage, seize it for the satisfaction of
his own debt to the exclusion of all the other mortgage creditors. By refusing to convert his notes into stock, he left the
notes of the other creditors and the mortgage which secured
them, in full force and effect. The contention of a creditor, who
did not offer to convert, that the conditional offer of the other
holders to convert is, in effect, a conversion, and satisfies their
notes, and leaves the property of the company unencumbered
and liable to seizure, and applicable exclusively to the satisfaction of his claim, is without support in reason or justice.
It appears from the record that a number of the creditors of
the mining company, who had surrendered their notes condi-

PUGH v. FAIRMOUNT MIlING COMPANY.

243

Opinion of the Court.
tionally, required the complainants, Hare and Pugh, who were
the mortgagees, to proceed to enforce the mortgage by suit to
foreclose, and in compliance with this demand the present suit
was brought. There is no ground upon which their right to
the relief prayed can be denied.
There is no support for the contention of Reed that it was
the duty of the holders of notes, who had offered to convert
them into stock, to rescind, within a reasonable time, the contract of conversion, and that,i:by delaying to do so for three'
years, they had lost the right to rescind. The answer to this
contention is, that there never was any conversion of notes into
stock and no binding contract to convert. The most that can
be claimed is, that the holders of the notes secured by the
mortgage offered to convert them upon the conditions expressed
in the resolution. The conditions were never complied with.
There was, therefore, no conversion and nothing to rescind.
The conditional surrender of the notes secured by the mortgage
did not cut off the right to foreclose the mortgage for their satisfaction. Howe v. lewis, 14 Pick. 329; Davis v. -fMaynard,
9 Mass. 242; Stover"v. Foods,11 C. E. Greene (26 N. J. Eq.) 417.
The notes which were filed for conversion remained the property of their holders respectively, and the stock the property
of the company. It does not appear that any holder of the
notes had disposed of stock which he had received conditionally.
If there is such a one he will be compelled to account for the
stock. Those in whose names the stock still remains will be
entitled to their notes and to the gecurity for their payment afforded by the mortgage, and the mining company will be entitled to a re-transfer of the stock.
It being clear that the notes held by the parties for whom
the present suit to foreclose was brought have not been satisfied, the right of the complainants to maintain the suit is put
beyond question. The sale upon the judgment at law recovered by Thackara could not affect that right. It has been held
by many courts that a mortgagee cannot, upon a judgnent recovered for a debt secured by his mortgage, levy the execution
upon the mortgaged property. Atkins v. Sawyer, 1 Pick. 351:
MT 'urn. v. Goodwin, 17 Pick. 137; Tice v. Annin, 2 Johns.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

Ch. 125; Camp v. Coxe, 1 Dev. & Bat. (Law), 52; lThller v.
Tate, 4 B. Mon. 529; Powell v. William, 14 Ala. 476; Car.penterv. Bowe ,42 Mississippi, 28; Linnville v. Bell, 47 Ind.
547.
But whether this be the established rule or not, it requires no
authority to shoW that a sale of the mortgaged premises, upon
a judgment recovered on a part of the notes secured by the
mortgage, does nQt preclude the holder of other notes secured
by the same mortgage from proceeding to foreclose it. A sale
on such a judgment could only affect the equity of redemption,
and would leave the rights of the holder of other notes secured
by the mortgage unaffected.
We are of opinion that the Circuit Court erred in dismissing
the bill.
5he deeree must therefore be reversed,and the causeremanded
for suchfwtrther proceedings in conformity with this opinion as the case may require.

MORRIS & Others, Executors, v. &MoILLIN& Others,Administrators.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT Or THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued November 5, 6,188i.-Deeided November 17, 1884.

The patent granted to John J. McMillin, April 16,1867, for an improvement in
applying steam power to the capstans of steamboats and other crafts, was,
in effect, for the application of the power of a steam engine to a vertical
capstan, by means of the same well-known agencies by which it had been
previously applied to a horizontal windlass: it did not involve the exercise
of invention, and is therefore invalid.
The late reported cases decided in this court, holding patents to be invalid for
want of invention, cited.

The bill was filed against the appellants to restrain the in'fringement of letters patent granted to John S. Mcmillin, one of
the appellees, dated April 16, 1867, for "a new and useful improvement in applying steam power to the capstans of steam-

