OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

CARTER v. CARUSI & Another, Executors.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Argued November 24, 25, 1884.-Decided December 15,1884.

The provision in § 715 Rev. Stat. District of Columbia, that a lender contracting to receive an illegal rate of interest, shall forfeit all such interest,
and shall be entitled to recover only the principal shm, applies only to
cases in which the illegal interest has been contracted for, but has not been
paid.
The remedy given by § 716 Rev. Stat. District of Columbia to tecover back
unlawful interest actually paid is exclusive.
It is not error in a charge to make no reference to an issue raised by a plea,
but iunsupported by proof.
Failure to instruct a jury upon an issue raised by a plea cannot be assigned as
error, if the court below was not requested to charge the jury upon that

issue.

The Revised Statutes of the United States relating to the
District of Columbia provide as follows:
"§ '715. If any person or corporation shall contract to receive
a greater rate of interest than ten per cent. upon any contract
hr writing, or six per cent. upon any verbal contract, such person or corporation shall forfeit the whole of the interest so
contracted to be received, and shall be entitled only to recover
the principal sum due to such person or corporation.
"§ 716. If any person or corporation within the District
.shall directly or indirectly take or receive any greater amount
*of interest than is provided for in this chapter upyn any contract or agreement whatever, it shall be lawful for the person,
or his personal representative, or the corporation paying the
same, to sue for and recover all the interest paid upon any
such contract or agreement from the person or his personal
representatives or from the corporation receiving such unlawful
interest; but the suit to recover back such interest shall be
brought within one year after such unlawful interest shall have
been paid or taken."
The transactions out of which the cause of action in this case
and the defences thereto arose, occurred in the District of
Columbia while these sections were in force.

CARTER v. CARUSL
Statement of Facts.

The suit was brought October 16, 1878, by the defendants
in error, executors of Nathaniel Carusi, deceased, against Carter, the plaintiff in error, as indorser upon a note, dated May
29, 1873, made by Joseph Daniels, for the payment t6 Carter
of $1,000 three years after date, with interest at the rate of
eight per cent. per annum.
'Carter filed six pleas, the first five of which only it is
material to notice. The first two pleas were, in substance, the
general issue.
The third plea averred that the plaintiffs ought not to
recover $992 of the amount of the note sued on, with the
interest on said sum, because Carusi, the testator, after. becoming the owner of the note, made, on February 4, 1876, a verbal
argreement with Daniels, the maker, by which he cohtracted to
receive from Daniels interest at the rate of ten per cent. per
annum, payable quarterly, upon the full amount of the principal and interest due on the note at its maturity, to wit, $4,960,
and, in pursuance of such agreement, did, between February 4,
1876, and January 1, 1878, receive, as illegal interest, eight
payments of $124 each, amounting to $992.
The fourth plea was similar to the third, except that it
averred that the instalments of illegal interest were paid,
some to Carusi, the testator, in his lifetime, and the others,
after his death; to the plaintiffs.
The fifth plea'averred that the defendant was only liable on
the note as indorser; that on June 1, 1876, Carusi, the testator,
in consideration of the promise of Daniels, the maker, to pay
usurious interest of ten per cent. on the note, in quarterly instalments of $124 each, agreed to extend, and did extend, the
time of payment from quarter to quarter as long as Daniels
paid the quarterly instalments of usurious interest, and that
Daniels paid said quarterly instalments until January 1, 1878,
and that the extension of the time for the payment of the note
was agreed to by Carusi without the consent of the defendant
Carter.
Issue was taken on the pleas, and upon the trial in special
term the jury returned a verdict for the plaintiffs, upon which
the court rendered judgmeht. The case was daiTied, by writ

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

of error, to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, in
general term, by which the judgment of the court in special
term was affirmed. The writ of error in this case brought up
that judgment for review.
It appeared by the bill of exceptions taken upon the trial
that the making and indorsing of the note having been admitted by the counsel for the defendant, the plaintiffs gave
evidence tending to prove that demand for payment thereof
was duly. made upon the maker, and notice of the dishonor
was duly given by the plaintiffs to the defendant, and the
plaintiffs rested.
Thereupon the defendant gave evidence tending to prove
that Oarusi, the testator, in his lifetime, and his executors,
after his death, received, after the maturity of the note sued
on, from, Daniels, the maker, in quarterly instalments, interest
thereon down to September 1, 1877, at the rate of ten per
cent. per annum, calculated upon the amount of principal and
interest due on the note at maturity, and that such instalments amounted to $621.10, but that the payments were not
made in pursuance of any contract, verbal or written, between
Carusi, the testator, and Daniels, or the plaintiffs and Daniels.
Thereupon the plaintiffs introduced evidence tending to
show the following facts: "That Joseph Daniels, the maker
of the note sued on, had, in or about the month of January,
187[6, negotiated a loan of $10,000 from" Carusi, "the testator," of the plaintiffs, upon which he agreed to pay interest
quarterly at the rate of ten per cent. per annum, and to secure
which he offered to execute a deed of trust on certain property
in the city of Washington.
This property was encumbered by a deed of trust made by
Daniels to secure the note sued on, and two others of the same
date, made also by him, for $4,000 each, payable to Carter,
the first in one and the other in ti;o years. Carusi, learning
that the property was thus encmnbered, declined to lend the
money until the encumbrances were removed; but Daniels
promising to do this, and urging Carusi "to hold said negotiation open" until he could do it, the $10,000 was "deposited in
bank" by C0rusi "and reserved for Daniels."

CARTER v. CARUSI.
Statement of Facts.

Carter being still the holder of the second and third notes
executed to him by Daniels, and the second being now overdue, threatened to sell the real estate covered by the deed of
trust given to secure them.. Thereupon, as a temporary expedient to relieve Daniels, Carusi, the testator, agreed to
purchase the third note which had not matured, and the defendant Carter agreed to extehd the time for the payment of
the second note. The third note, which is the one sued on in
this case, was purchased accordingly before maturity by Carusi,.
and was indorsed by Carter, the payee, who received therefor
from Carusi, $4,853, that sum being the principal with the
interest due thereon at the date of its transfer. Daniels voluntarily offered to pay interest at the rate of tenper cent. per annum on the amount both of principal and interest due on the
note at maturity, that amount being $4,960, but Carusi declined to receive the same without first obtaining the consent
of the defendant thereto, and he communicated to the defendant the offer of Daniels to pay interest as aforesaid, and the.
defendant consented that Carusi might receive the same, and
no payment of interest by Daniels was received ly the plaintiffs without their first having obtained the consent of Carter
thereto. The plaintiffs further gave evidence tending to prove
that there was no agreement between them or their testator
and Daniels for indulgence or extension of time for payment
of the note, or for forbearance to sue thereon.
Upon this state of the pleadings and evidence the defendant
requested the court to charge the jury:
Fist. That if either the third or fourth plea was proven,
their verdict should be for $4,000, the principal of the note,
less whatever amount the jury might regard as proven to have
been paid by Daniels in the nature of interest to the testator
or to the plaintiffs.
,S&cand. That if the jury found that either the testator or
the plaintiffs at any time after the maturity of the note in suit
received interest thereon at a greater rate than six per cent.
per annum, the receipt of such interest was illegal and would
prevent the plaintiffs from recovering more than the principal
of the note, less all amounts of interest paid on account of it.
VOL. cxn-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

The court refused these charges, and instructed the jury that
the only remedy for the recovery of money paid for interest
in excess of the interest allowed by law was suit brought, under
§ 716 of the Revised Statutes of the District of Columbia,
within one year, and that the prohibition contained in § 715 of
the Revised Statutes of the District of Columbia applied exclusively to cases in which illegal interest had been contracted for
but not paid.
The errors assigned were the refusal of the court to give the
instructions prayed for by the defendant, and the instructions
given by the court.
.&.2H 0. Clavugton, for plaintiff in error.
.r. lFalter1D. -Davidge,for defendants in error.
MR.JusTioR WooDs delivered the opinion of the court. Hfe
recited the facts as above stated, and continued:
We are of opinion that there is no error in the charges given
or in the refusal to charge as requested. The sections of the
Revised Statutes relating.to the District of Columbia were correctly construed by the court. Their meaning is plain. § 715
provides for the case where the party contracts to receive a
greater rate of interest than ten per cent. upon a written and
six per cent. upon a verbal contract, and declares that he shall
forfeit the whole interest so contracted to be received, and shall
recover only his principal delft. The evidence tended to show
that the payment by Daniels to Carusi, the testator, of ten per
cent. interest was voluntary, and that there was no contract
for its payment or agreement for indulgence or extension of
time for payment on account thereof. It is plain that under
this section the plaintiff in error was not entitled to the charaes?
requested by him.
. § 716 provides for the recovery, by the person who has paid
a greater rate of interest than is allowed by law, upon any
agreement or contract, of all interest paid on such contract or
agreement, provided he brings suit to recover the same within
one year after the unlawful interest shall have been paid. This

CARTER v. CARUSL
Opinion of the Court.

section, it is also clear, brings no aid to the plaintiff in error.
This is not a suit to recover back usurious interest paid, but to
enforce the collection of the note upon which it is contended
the usurious interest was received. The plaintiff in error did
not pay the unlawful interest, but it was paid by Daniels, and
it was paid by him more than a year before this suit was
brought, and more than a year before the defence set up by
the plaintiff in error. If Daniels himself, who paid the alleged
usurious interest, had brought a suit to recover it back, his
action would have failed, because not begun within the time
prescribed by the statute. The plaintiff in error, therefore,
who has paid no interest, legal or illegal, is in no better position, at least, than Daniels, and cannot set up the provisions of
§ 716 in his defence. Under neither section is the plaintiff in
error entitled to any relief.
His counsel, however, contend that, if he is not entitled to
relief under the statute, his common-law right to reclaim or setoff usurious interest paid still remains to him.
But this court has repeatedly decided against this contention
of the plaintiff in error. In Farners'& Ifechanics' -National
Bank v. .Dearing,91 U. S. 29, the court declared that the penalty imposed on a national bank for taking a greater rate of
interest than that allowed by the national banking act, was
the loss of the entire interest, and that no loss of the entire
debt was incurred by the bank as a penalty by reason of the
provisions of the usury law of a State.
So in Ba'net v. .1ational.Bank, 98 U. . 555, it was held
that in a suit by a national bank against the parties to a bill of
exchange discounted by it, the assignees of an acceptor could
not, having intervened as parties, set up, by way of counterclaim or set-off, that the bank knowingly took and was paid
a greater rate of interest thereon than that allowed by law,
but that, the national banking act having prescribed as a penalty for the taking of such unlawful interest that the .person
paying the same might, in an action of debt against the bank,
recover back twice-the amount so paid, he could have redress
in no other form or mode of procedure.
So in DriesbaeA v. 2YaionaZ Bank, 104 U. S. 52, it was held

OCTOBER TERI, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

that usurious interest paid to a national bank on renewing a
series of notes, of which those in suit were the last, could not
be applied in satisfaction'of the principal of the debt. See also
Cook v. _Lillo, 103 U. *S. 792, and Wqlsh v. -Yayer, 111 U. S.
31. In the case last cited it was held generally that a statute
which prescribes a legal rate of interest, and forbids the taking
of a higher rate, under penalty of a forfeiture of the entire
interest, and declares that the party paying such higher rate
of interest may recover it back by suit brought within twelve
months, confers no authority to apply the usurious interest
actually paid to the discharge of the principal debt, and that a
suit for its recovery, brought within twelve months, was thd
exclusive remedy.
There was, therefore, no error in the refusil of the court to
charge as requested or in the charge given.
It is further assigned for error that the court neglected to
give the jury any instruction upon the issue raised by the fifth
plea, the plaintiff in error contending that there was evidence
to support that plea, and that the court, though not requested,
should have submitted to the jury the issue of fact raised by
-the plea. We look in vain through the record to find any
evidence that would have justified the jury in returning a verdict for the defendant on the fifth plea. On the contrary, the
evidence tended strongly to disprove it. The court might,
therefore, without injustice to the defendant, have withdrawn
from the jury the consideration of the fifth plea. 'Parks v.
R-oss, 11 How. 362, 373; Hicwmzan v. Jones, 9 Wall. 197;
Pleasants v. Fant, 22 Wall. 116; Commissioners of .3[arion
County v. Clark, 94 U. S. 278.
But even if there had been evidence to support the plea, as
it does not appear that the court was requested to charge the
jury upon the issue raised thereby, the failure of the court to
do so cannot be assigned for error. Express Co. v. Kountze,
8 Wall. 342.
We find no error in the record.
The judgment of the Suyreme Court of the -Districtof Columbia is affirmed.

