OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

ratrously made. It was upon this evidence coming from the
insurance company that the court told the jury that the barratry of the master would not relieve the company from its liability in this action for he loss which followed from the stranding by a peril of the sea, and the subsequent barratrous sale.
Certainly we are not called upon to retain a case on our docket
for argument upon such a question.
There was sufficient color of right to a dismissal to make it
proper for us to entertain a motion to affirm with the motion
to dismiss.
The motion to dismiss is denied, but that to affirm is
granted.

UNITED STATES v. IORTHI.
UNITED STATES v. EMORY.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Submitted November 20, I&M4.-Decided December 8,18S4.

Officers of the army and officers of the navy, engaged in the service of the
United States in the war with INexico, and who served out the time iftheir
engagement, are, since the act of February 19,1879, 20 Stat. 316, entitled to
the three months' extra pay allowed under the act of July 19,1843, 9 Stat. 248.
The extra pay which such officers are entitled to receive is to be computed at
the rate which they were entitled to receive at the time when they were discharged or ordered away.
Officers in the regular army or navy engaged in the military service of the
United States in the war with M1exico, "served out the term of their
engagements," or were "honorably discharged" within the meaning of
the act of 14, when the war was over. or when they were ordered or
mustered out of that service.

These suits were brought in the Court of Claims.
James I. North was an officer in the navy of the United
States from May 29, 1829, to January 14, 1861, when he resigned. He served in the war with Mexico, as lieutenant, on

UNITED STATES v. NORTIL
Statement of Facts.

board the frigate Potomac, from February 10, 1846. until
July, 1847, when his vessel sailed for the United States.
William H. Emory was an officer in the regular army of the
United States most of the time from July 1, 1831, to July 1,
1876; when he was placed on the retired list. Ile was appointed first lieutenant of topographical engineers July 7,
1838, and promoted to captain April 24, 1851. On or about
the 1st of October, 1847, while he was lieutenant of engineers,
he was appointed by the President as lieutenant-colonel in the
District of Columbia and Maryland volunteers for service
during the war with Mlexico. lHe took the oath of office in
Washington about the 2d of October and joined his regiment
in Mexico, under the orders of the War Department, and
served with it "in the war with Mexico" until mustered out.
of service, as lieutenant-colonel, on the 24th of July, 1848.
Upon his muster out as lieutenant-colonel he resumed his former rank as lieutenant of engineers, and continued his service
as such.
These suits were brought to recover the "three months'
extra pay" allowed to those "who were engaged in the military service of the United States in the war with -Mexico" by
the following statutes:
1. Act of July 19, 1848, ch. 104, ยง 5, 9 Stat. 248:
"'SEc. 5. And be it furthier enccte(d, That the officers, non-

commissioned officers, musicians and privates engaged in the
military service of the United States in the war with Mexico,
and who served out the time of their engagement, or may have
been honorably discharged,-and first to the widows, second
to the children, third to the parents, and fourth to the brothers
and sisters of such who have been killed in battle, or who died
in service, or who, having been honorably discharged, have
since died, or may hereafter die, without receiving the three
months' pay herein provided for,-shall be entitled to receive
three months' extra pay: Provide(, That this provision of this
fifth section shall only apply to those who have been A,actual
service during the war."
2. Act of February 19, 1879, ch. 90, 20 Stat. 316:
"Be it enaoted, &c., That the Secretary of the Treasury be,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

and he is hereby, directed, out of any moneys in the treasury
not otherwise appropriated, to pay to the officers and soldiers
'engaged in the military service of the United States in the war
with Mexico, and who served out the time of their engagement,
or were honorably discharged,' the three months' extra pay
provided for by the act of July nineteenth, eighteen hundred
and forty-eight, and the limitations contained in said act, in all
cases, upon the presentation of satisfactory evidence that said
extra compensation has not been previously received: Pro,ided, That the provisions of this act shall include also the
officers, petty officers, seamen, and marines of the United
States Navy the Revenue Marine Service and the officers and
soldiers of the United States Army employed in the prosecution of said war."
The Court of Claims gave judgment in favor of North for
three months' sea service pay as lieutenant in the navy, and in
favor of Emory for three months' pay as lieutenant-colonel of
volunteers, without the allowances of an officer in addition to
his pay. From these judgments the United States appealed.
.1'. Solicitor-Generalfor appellant.
.Xr. A. .Aacdonald .a.Blair for appellee North.
3&/.. S. S. Zenke for appellee Emory.
MR. CHIEF JTSTIcE WmTE delivered the opinion of the court.

He recited the facts as above stated, and continued:
The questions are--1. Whether the officers of the navy and of the regular army
who were employed in the prosecution of the war with Mexico
are entitled to the three months' extra pay provide. for by the
act of 1848, and if so, then,
2. What is the "pay" to which they are entitled ?
We have no hesitation in answering the first of these questions in the affirmative. All the doubts there may have been
upon that subject when the act of 1848 stood alone were, in
our opinion, removed by the act of 1S79. It is difficult to see

U-ITED STATES v. NORTH.
Opinion of the Court.

why the proviso was added to that act, if it were not to make
it plain that Congress intended to include "the officers, petty
officers, seamen, and marines of the United States Navy, the Revenue Marine Service, and the officers and soldiers of the United
States Army employed in the prosecution of said war" among
those who were entitled to the "extra pay" provided for.
The answer to the second question is, to our minds, attended
with no greater difficulty. Those of the regular army or navy
who were "engaged in the military service of the United States
in the war with Mexico" may be said to "have served out the
term of their engagement," or to have been "honorably discharged," within the meaning of those terms as used in the act
of 1848, when the war was over, or when they were ordered
or mustered out of that service. Being in the army and navy,
their "engagement" was to serve wherever they were ordered
for duty. Their engagement to serve in the war with Mexico
ended when they were taken away from that service by proper
authority.
The pay they were to receive was evidently that which they
were receiving at the end of their engagement, or when they
were honorably discharged. The language is, "shall be entitled to receive three months' extra pay," evidently mean'ng
the same pay they would have received if they had remained
in the same service three months longer. It follows that, as
North was serving at sea when he was ordered away, he was
entitled to three months' sea pay, and as Emory was mustered
out of his service in the war as lieutenant-colonel of volunteers,
his pay must be in accordance with that rank.
As the effect of the statutes on which the several claimants
rely was fully and elaborately considered in the opinion of the
Court of Claims, Emo-iy v. United States,19 C. Cl. 254, and we
affirm the judgments of that court, it is unnecessary to do more
than state in this brief way the conclusions to which we have
come.
Afirmed.
The judgment in each case is
MR_.JusTioE BLrATcHFOnD took no part

cause.
VoL. cXU-33

in the decision of this

