HANCOCK v. HOLBROOK.
Syllabis.

counter-claims. As the first of these claims was admitted by
Higgins in his reply, there could not have been below, and
there cannot be here, any dispute about that. The conclusive
presumption upon the record is, that the amount of this claim
was credited upon the sum found due from the company for the
property about which the suit was brought, and the verdict
and judgment given only for the balance remaining after that
deduction was made. As to the second, the record shows that
while the claim in the pleadings was for $1,833.42, the evidence
introduced in support of it only tended to prove that there was
$61.10 due from Higgins on that accunt. The dispute in this
court, therefore, according to the record is, 1st, as to the right
of Higgins to retain his judgment against the company for $3,333.92, and 2d, as to the right of the company to recover $61.10
from Higgins. As these two sums combined do not make
$5,000, it is clear we have no jurisdiction, and the motion to
dismiss must be granted. Had it not been for the statement in
the bill of exceptions, which, in effect, limited the counterclaim to the amount which the evidence tended to prove, the
case would have been different, for then it would have appeared
that the company might have been entitled to recover the whole
amount of $1,833.42, after defeating the entire claim of Higgins, thus making the apparent value of the matter in dispute
here in excess of our jurisdictional requirements. As it is,
however, we can look only to the statement in the bill of exceptions of what the amount in dispute under this claim actually was.
.Dimised.

HANCOCKv . HOLBROOK & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Argued November 4, 1884.-Decided November 17, 1884.

When a cause commenced in a State court, and removed to a circuit court, is
brought to this court, and it does not appear on the face of the record that

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.
the citizenship of the parties was such as to give the Circuit Court jurisdiction on removal, the judgment below will be reversed without inquiry into
the merits, and the cause sent back with instructions to remand it to the
State court from which it was improperly removed. Mansfield, Coldwater
& Lake .MichiganRailway v. Swan, III U. S. 379, affirmed.
In so remanding the"cause this court will make such order as to costs as is just.

This cause was argued by counsel on the merits. The jurisdictional question raised by the pleadings is stated in the opinion of the court.
.1r. Je. Candler,.r. Efpa Hunton and .Ab. J D. Rouse
for appellants.
.fr. Thomas J. Semmes (Mrl>. Robert .Xott was with him) for
appellees.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought in a State court of Louisiana, on the
25th of November, 1876, by Edward C. Hancock, a citizen of
Louisiana, against Eliza Jane Holbrook, George W. Nicholson,
R. W. Holbrook, and Chas. T. Howard, all of the city of New
Orleans, as stated in the petition, to establish an alleged title
of Holbrook to 2- parts of all the property, rights, assets and
good will of the "New Orleans Picayune Newspaper and
Printing Establishment," then in the possession of the defendants at New Orleans. All the defendants were served with
process by the sheriff of the parish of Orleans.
On the 13th of December, 1876, Nicholson filed in the State
court a petition for the removal of the suit to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Louisiana. In this petition he stated that he was a citizen of the State of Mississippi
and Hancock a citizen of the State of Louisiana. No mention
was made of the citizenship of the other defendants, and no
other ground of removal was given than that Hancock and
Nicholson were citizens of different States. It does not appear that this petition was ever formally presented to the State
court. The transcript only shows that it was fied. On the
19th of December, 1876, after the date of the filing of the petition for removal, the petition in the suit was amended by addAIRT. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

HANCOCK v. HOLBROOK.
Opinion of the Court.

ing the name of Richard Fitzgerald, a citizen of Louisiana, as a
defendant, and a summons was thereupon issued to bring this
new defendant into court.
On the 11th of December, 1877, nearly a year after the petition for removal was filed, the clerk of the State court made a
transcript of the record and proceedings in that court, and annexed his certificate of its correctness. On the same day the
attorney of Hancock indorsed on the transcript the following:
"I consent, on behalf of plaintiff, that this shall be considered a correct transcript of the record of the suit of E. (.
Hancock v. .2-rs. E. J. Holyrook, No. 23,653, Third District
Court, Parish of Orleans, the same to be filed in the UT. S.
Circuit Court, in accordance with the order to transfer."
The transcript, thus certified and indorsed, was filed in the
Circuit Court of the United States on the 13th of December,
1877. No motion was ever made to remand the cause, and on
the 10th of January, 1878, proceedings were begu in the
Circuit Court, at the instance of the attorney for the plaintiff.
Answers were afterwards filed by the defendants and testimony
taken, upon which the paities went to a hearing, which resulted
in a decree, on the 13th of March, 1881, dismissing the bill.
From this decree Hancock appealed.
It was decided at the last term, in .A'ansfteld, Coldwater &
Zake ficldgan Railway Co. v. Swan, 111 U. S. 379, that
when a suit which has been removed from a State court is
brought here by appeal or writ of error, and it does not appear
on the face of the record that the citizenship of the parties was
such "as to give the Circuit Court jurisdiction upon the removal,
the judgment or decree of the Circuit Court will be reversed
without inquiry into the merits, and the cause sent back with
instructions to remand it to the State court from which it was
improperly removed. This is such a case. All the defencnts
except one were citizens of the same State with the plaintiff,
and there is no pretence of a separable controversy. Under
these circumstances the cause was not removable (Removal
Cazses, 100 U. S.457), and the Circuit Court consequently had
no jurisdiction.
In the same case it was also decided that upon such a reversal

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

this court may make such order in respect to costs of the appeal or writ of errOr as justice and right shall seem to require.
In that case the r6inoval was made on the application of the
appellant, and, although a judgment of reversal was entered,
costs were given against him. It appeared there, however,
that the appellee, after the case got to the Circuit Court, moved
that it be remanded to the State court, and only remained'in
the Circuit Court, because-his motion was overruled. He submitted to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court upon compulsion.
Here the- appellee petitioned for the removal. The cause
was not, however, docketed in the Circuit Court until a year
after the petition for removal had been filed in the State court,
and it nowhere appears that any action was taken in the latter
court in reference to its oWn jurisdiction. Neither does it dppear by which party the case was docketed in the Circuit
Court. It does appear, however, that the appellant consented
to the docketing, and that he made no effort whatever to have
the case remanded. He was the first to move in the Circuit
Court, and there is nothing to show that he remained in that
court against his will. We are strongly inclined to the opinion
that the removal was effected with the consent of both parties
and without the attention of either of the courts having been
called to the jurisdictional facts. Under these circumstances
each party should pay one-half the costs in this court.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the cause
returned to that court with instructionsto remand it to the
State court from which it was improperly rermoved; and
with liberty to make such order as to costs accruingin the
Circuit Court after the removal as equity andjustice may
require. A judgmen.t will be enterod against the affpelees
for one-half the costs in this court.

