THAYER v. LIFE ASSOCIATION.
Statement of Facts.

THAYER & Another v. LIFE ASSOCIATION OF
AMERICA & Others.
APPEAL FROm THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
Submitted December 16, 18M4.-Decided January 5, 18".

Two citizens of West Virginia conveyed to a trustee certain real property in
that State, to secure the payment of notes executed by them to a Missouri
corporation, which was subsequently dissolved, and its assets placed in the
hands of a citizen of the latter State. Upon default in the payment of the
notes, the trustee, under authority given by the deed, advertised the property for sale. The grantors thereupon instituted a suit in equity in one of
the courts of West Virginia to enjoin the sale, making the trustee, the 'issouri corporation, and the person who held its assets, defendants. Upon
the joint petition of that corporation and the defendant holding its assets,
the cause was removed to the Circuit Court of the United States, and was
there fijally determined: Held, That since the trustee was an indispensable party, his citizenship was material in determining the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court; and as that was not averred, and did not otherwise
affirmatively appear to be such as gave the right of removal, the decree
must be revered and the cause remanded to the State court.

By a duly recorded deed of August 22, 1872, Otis A. Thayer
and William T. Thayer conveyed to Edward B. Knight certain
real estate in Kanawha County, State of West Virginia, in
trust, to secure the payment of several notes executed by the
grantors to the Life Association of America, a corporation
created and organized under thedaws of the State of Missouri.
The deed was upon the condition that if the notes were paid
at maturity, and the covenants therein contained were kept
and performed, the property should be released; but ff the
notes, or any of them, were not paid as stipulated, or if said
covenants were not fully kept, then the deed should remain in
full force, with the right in the trustee to take immediate possession of the property; that, after such default, the grantors
and their heirs and assigns should hold the premises conveyed
as tenants only of the trustee from month to month, and the
latter might proceed to sell the property, at public auction, to
the highest bidder, on the terms and conditions prescribed by
the laws of the State, fist giving twenty days' notice of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

time, terms, place of sale, and the property to be sold, by advertisement in some newspaper; upon such sale to execute and
deliver a deed in fee simple of the property sold; receive the
proceeds of sale, out of which shall be paid, first, the cost and
expenses of the trust; next, all amounts expended as aforesaid
for taxes and other purposes, with interest, as above mentioned; and then, the amount that might remain unpaid on the
notes. The deed also provided that any failure to pay the
notes at their respective maturities, or to keep its covenants,
should cause all of the notes to become and be considered due'
and payable, for the purpose of the trust, at the time of such
default.
Knight, the trustee, under the authority given by the deed,
having advertised the property for sale on the 25th of April
thereafter, at public auction, to the highest bidder, for the-purpose of satisfying the debt secured by it to the Life Association of America, this suit was commenced in the Circuit Court
of Kanawha County, West Virginia, by the grantors in the
deed of trust, against The Life Association of America, Win.
S. RelfW, Superintendent of the Department of Insurance of
the State of Missouri, and Edward B. Knight, Trustee. The
bill showed that by a decree of the Circuit Court of the
county of St. Louis, Missouri, the Life Association of America
was dissolved, and its assets placed in the hands of the defendant Relfe, as superintendent of the Insurance Department of
that State. It set out the consideration of the before-mentioned notes, the execution of the deed of trust, and the proposed sale of the property, by the trustee, at the instance of
Relfe. The complainants contended, upon grounds which need
not be here stated, that the trust debt was paid, and that there
was a balance due them of $91.63. Claiming that the sale of
the trust property would be unjust and inequitable, they asked
that the trustee be enjoined from selling it; also, that the trust
debt be decreed to be extinguished.
A temporary injunction against the sale was issued. In due
time the defendants, the Life Association and Relfe, appeared
and filed their joint petition and bond for the removal of the
cause into the Circuit Court of the United States. The peti-

THAYER v. LIFE ASSOCIATION.
Opinion of the Court.

tion averred that at that time, as well as at the commencement
of the action, the complainants were citizens of West Virginia,
while the Life Association of America and Relfe were citizens
of Missouri. There was no allegation of the citizenship of
Knight, the trustee. He was alleged, in the petition for removal, to have no interest in the suit, and to be a nominal
party only. The right of removal was- recognized by the
State court. Subsequently, in the Circuit Court of the United
States, a demurrer to the bill was sustained; and no amendment having been made, the suit was dismissed.
Xk. Charles C. Cole, and X. J. H&okswortk Gordm, for -appellants.
.Yr. 1?. G. Barr,for appellee.
AR.

JusTiCE HAInLm

delivered the opinion of the court.

He recited the facts as above stated, and continued:
The trustee was not a merely nominal party. The object of
the suit was to prevent him from selling the property under
the power given by the deed of trust. The relief asked could
not have been granted without his being before the court.
There was no separable controversy between the complainants
and the other defendants, touching the sale of the property,
which could have been determined between them without the
presence of the trustee. He was, therefore, an indispensable
party defendant. Whether he had the right and was under a
duty to sell the property was the controversy in which all the
parties to the suit were interested. His citizenship, therefore,
is material in determining whether the suit was one of which
the Circuit Court could take cognizance. The record discloses
nothing -upon that point. He may be-and we infer from the
recitals of the deed of trust that he is-a citizen of the same
State with the complainants. If "such be the fact, the cause
was not one that could be removed. As the trustee and the
complainants are on opposite sides of the real controversy in
relation to the sale of the property, and since it does not appear, affirmatively, that the Circuit Court had jurisdiction, by
reason of the citizenship of the parties, the decree must be

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

reversed, with directions-unless such jurisdiction, upon the
return of the cause, shall be made to appear-to remand the
suit to the State court. Coal Co. v. Blatchford, 11 Wall. 172;
gardner v. Brown, 21 Wall. 36; Ribon v. Railroad Co., 16
Wall. 446 ; .Knapp v. Railroad,20 Wall. 117 ; race v. American Ins. Co., 109 U. S. 278; 3tan,1fehd Railway Co. v. Swan,
111 U. S.379, 381-2; American Bible Society v. Price,110 U.
S. 61; Barney v. Latham, 103 U. S. 205; Blake v. XfoZfim,
103U. S.336.
It iss0 ordered.

ST. PAUL & SIOUX CITY RAILROAD COMPAINY &
Another v. WINONA & ST. PETER RAILROAD COMPANY.
'IN ERROR TO THE S1UhREM

COURT OF THE STATE OF MINES6TA.

Argued December 18, 19, 18.-Decided January 5, 1885.
In grants of lands to aid in building railroads, the title to the lands within
the primary limits within which all the odd or even sections are granted,
relates, after the road is located according to law, to the date of the grant,
and in cases where these limits, as between different roads,, conflict or encroach on each other, priority of date of the act of Congress, and not
priority of location of the line of road, gives priority of title.
When the acts of Congress in such cases are of the same date, or grants are
made for different roads by the same statute, priority of location gives no
priority of right ; but where the limits of the primary grants, which are
settled by the location, conflict, as by crossing or lapping, the parties building the roads under those grants take the sections, within the conflicting
limits of primary location, in equal undivided moieties, without regard to
priority of location of the line of the road, or priority of construction.
A different rule prevails in case of lands to be selected in lieu of those within
the limits of primary location, which have been sold or pre-empted before
the location is made, where the limits of selection interfere or overlap.
In such cases neither priority of grant, noi priority of location, nor priority of Construction, -gives priority of right ; but this is determined
by priority of selection, where the selection is made according to law.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.

