GREAT WESTERN INS. CO. v. UNITED STATES.

193

Statement of Facts.
on the other. To say the least, the case must be one capable of
separation" into patts, so that, in one of the parts, a controversy
will be presented with citizens of one or more States on one side
and citizens of other States on the other, which can be fully de-,
termined without the presence of the other parties to the suit
as it has been begun." Frazer v. Jennison, 106 U. S. 191,194.
As has already been seen, this is not such a case. There is here
but one cause of action. The personal decree .which is asked
against Wiswall is incident to the main purpose of the suit. It
presents no separate cause of action. The fact that separate
answers were filed which raised separate issues in defending
against the one cause of action, does not create separate controversies within the meaning of that term as used in the statute.
They simply present different questions to be settled in determining the rights of the parties in respect to the one cause -of
action for which the suit was brought. Hyde v...guble, 104
U. S. 407; Mvnc hester v. Zoud, 108 U. S. 130; Shainwald v.
Leuwis 108 U. S. .158.
It follows that the suit was properly remanded, and the order
of the Circuit Court to that effect is consequently

Aflrned.

GREAT WESTERN INSURA'NCE COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
PAULSON, Receiver, v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Argued October 14, 15, 184.-Decided November 10, 1884.

A claim against the United States for a part of the money received from Great
Britain in payment of the award made at Geneva under the Treaty of
Washington, is both a claim growing out of a treaty stipulation and a
claim dependent upon such stipulation, and is excluded from the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims by ยง 1066 ReV. Stat.

These were suits against the United States to recoveD portions of the Geneva award. The insurance company sued on
Vol. cx -13

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

its own account; the plaintiff Paulson, as receiver of the Columbian Insurance Company. Motions to dismiss for want of
jurisdiction were made in both cases, and were. heard together.
The facts making the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mt.A. tT Tillar

and 1r. Edwin B. Smith for the Great

Western Insurance Co., appellant.
.A/r. John ..

Donald for Paulson, receiver, appellant.

_&r. Solicitor-Generalfor appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MILLEu

delivered the opinion of the court, in

the case of the Great Western Insurance Company as follows:
This is an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims,
dismissing a petition for want of jurisdiction. This was not
done on a demurrer or plea, but on the following motion:
"The Assistant Attorney-General, on behalf of the United
States, moves the court to dismiss the petition in this cause, for
the reason that it does not disclose a cause of action within the
jurisdiction of the court."
The motion, on hearing, was sustained (see 19 C. Cl. 206), and
it is this judgment of dismissal we are asked to review.
The petition sets forth that the claimant was an insurance
company, engaged in the business of insuring against losses by
sea, and that it insured, in numerous cases, vessels, cargoes, and
freight, owned by citizens of the United States, against war
risks during the civil war between the United States and the
Confederate States. That by reason of the losses and destruction of the vessels and cargoes so insured, inflicted by the Confederate cruisers Alabama and Florida, this claimant paid the
sum of $309,635 to the owners of the vessels and cargoes, and
that claimant not only became by law subrogated to rights of
such owners against the parties who caused the loss, but took
assignments of the claims from the losers to itself.
The petition then alleges that the British government, by its
laches- and unfriendliness, in permitting these cruisers to be
built, fitted out, and furnished with supplies within its domin-

GREAT WESTERN INS. CO. v. UNITED STATES.

195

Opinion of the Court.

ion, became responsible for the losses inflicted on the owners of
the vessels and cargoes captured and destroyed by them.
That petitioner placed these claims in the hands of the Secretary of State, with the evidence to prove them against that
government. -The negotiation, treaty, and award known as
the Alabama Claims Treaty and the Geneva Award are then
set out, with the allegation that the sum now claimed by petitioner entered into and constituted a part of the $15,500,000
which was awarded to the United States in satisfaction of all
claims of this character.
It is alleged that the money so awarded was paid to the United
States, by reason of which and certain subsequent dealings with
this money,which was finally paid into the treasury of the United
States by order of Congress, an implied contract arose on the
part of the defendants to pay to claimant the amount of the
losses thls set forth; with interest thereon, which is alleged to
be over $500,000. The names of the vessels and the amounts
insured in each case, on vessel, cargo, and freight, are shown
by a schedule attached to the petition. From this it appears
that twelr' of these vessels were captured by the Alabama
and eight by the Florida. The names of the owners of the
vessels, cargoes, and freight are distinctly 'et forth and the
amounts paid to each.
The claimant, in its petition, places the right to recover
on the ground that by virtue of the transactions between
this government and Great Britain, and the receipt by the
former of the money paid by the latter on account of these
claims, the United States became a trustee for the claimant to
the amount of its loss, and liable to pay the same; or, as expressed in another form, the money was received by the government for the use and benefit of the petitioner, and when it was
paid into the treasury the United States became indebted to
the petitioner for that amount.
The same ground is assumed in the argument of counsel in
this court, the claim being treated essentially as indebittatus
assurtpsit for money had and received to the use of plaintiff.
If, therefore, the claim is well "founded on a contract, express or implied, with the United States," within the meaning

OCTO]BER TERM, 1884.
Opinion qf the Court.

of ยง fO59 Rev. Stat., and is not forbidden by any other act of
Congress, the petition should not have been dismissed; but if
it does' not present such an implied contract (for there is no
pretence of an express contract), or if for any other reason the
case is one of which the Court of Claims isforbidden to entertain jurisdiction, then the judgment of dismissal was correct.
.The case has been mainly argued here on the proposition
that the transaction does raise an implied promise on the part
of the government of the United. States to pay appellant the
amount of money paid by it on account of the losses inflicted
by the Alabama and Florida, or such proportion of that loss,
if it be any less than the whole, as was covered by the award.
And the judgment of the court below is defended largely upon
the ground that no such legal obligation or contract arises from
the transaction.
The opinion of the learned Chief Justice of the Court of
Claims is an able presentation of this view.
But the judgment of that court is also defended on the
ground that whatever may be the moral or the legal obligation
of the government to the appellant, growing out of the treaty,
the award, and the receipt of the money, it does not present a
case cognizable in the Court of Claims, both because the acts
of Congress creating the court and conferring its jurisdiction
were not intended to embrace this class of cases, and because
they were in express terms excluded from it.
If this latter proposition be sound, we deem it inappropriate
to express any opinion on the other, because the fund in the
treasury, paid under the Geneva Award, has been already
largely distributed under the decisions of one special commission appointed for that purpose, whose powers have expired,
and is now under administration by another commission created
for the same purpose- y another act of Congress. And although it is said that neither of these commissions could, under
the law of its creation, take cognizance of appellant's claim, it
is matter of public notoriety that the subject of claims of this
class is occupying the attention of Congress, and bills on that
subject are now pending before it.
Under these circumstances we do not think it appropriate to

GREAT WESTERN INS. CO. v, UNITED STATES.

197

Opinion of the Court.
express an opinion on the legal or moral obligation of the government in the matter, unless it is in the line of a plain duty.
The question of jurisdiction is the one raised by the motion,
and is always to be decided before the court can properly
inquire into the merits, and we are of opinion that, even if the
circumstances recited in the petition can be held to raise an
implied obligation on the part of the United States, the Court
of Claims is forbidden to take jurisdiction in this class of cases.
ยง 1066 Rev. Stat. enacts that "the jurisdiction of said court
shall not extend to any claim against the government not
pending therein on December one, eighteen hundred and sixtytwo, growing out of or dependent on any treaty stipulation
entered into with foreign nations or with Indian tribes."
This language is comprehensive and explicit. If the cause
of action grows out of a treaty stipulation, the court cannbt
entertain it. If-it is depen/tt on any such stipulation, the
same result follows.
In any ordinary or usual sense of the words here used, appellant's claim, as set forth in the petition, grows out of the
stipulations of the Treaty of Washington. The allegation is,
that the United States took charge of the claim of petitioner
against Great Britain for the injuries inflicted by the Alabama
and the Florida. That, by a treaty on that subject, Great
Britain stipulated that she would pay this claim to the United
States, as petitioner alleges, for the use of said petitioner. In
accordance with said stipulation, Great Britain did pay it to
the United States, and the purpose of payment under the treaty
inhering in the receipt of the money constitutes the foundation
of appellant's olaim. The intervention of the Board of Arbitration and its award as a means of ascertaining the liability
of Great Britain, does not change the fact that the final recognition and payment of the claim grows out of the st pulation

of the treaty.
in a still clearer sense it is obvious that this recognition of
the claim by the award and its payment to the United States,
were dependent on ,the treaty stipulation. Without the treaty
the award would have bound nobody, and would have been at
most a friendly recommendation. By virtue of the treaty it

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

became a most solemn and important international obligation,
whereby Great.Britain became bound, as much as a nation can
be bound, to pay the amount of the award, and, at the same
time, became freed and discharged from any further liability
on account of any claims of that class.
, The effort of counsel to ignore the treaty, the award and the
receipt of the money by the United States as the foundation
of appellant's claim, and rest the right to recover solely upon
the act of March 31, 1877, by which the fund was changed
from an investment in government bonds and paid into the
government treasury, is too fanciful for serious consideration.
If the government had not become liable, by reason of the
original receipt of the money from Great Britain, under the
treaty by which that country was discharged and released from
the claim of plaintiff, it is difficult to comprehend how it became liable by a mere change in the manner of keeping the
account. Whether the United States was liable on the bonds
held in its own treasury vaults, or on account of the actual
money represented by those bonds in the same vaults, cannot be
material in estimating the nature and extent of that obligation.
Nor can we assent to the proposition that the section cited
was designed to prevent foreign governments or Indian tribes
from suing the United States to enforce rights founded on
treaties. No such suit has ever been brought, either before or
since the enactment of this provision. It is not believed that
without it any one ever supposed that the Court of Claims
had jurisdiction of suits by Indian tribes or foreign nations
against the United States. It could not have been passed,
therefore, to prevent such a suit.
That the restriction was intended to apply to cases of the
character of the one now before us was substantially decided
in Atocha's Ca~se, 17 Wall. 439.
In that case, under the treaty of Guadaloupe Hidalgo with
Mexico, of February 2, 1848, our government undertook to
satisfy the claims of her citizens against Mexico to the amount
of $3,250,000. In, exebution of this stipulation Congress passed
an act creating a board of .commissioners, before whom such
citizens should appear and establish their claims.

GREAT WESTERN INS. CO. v. UNITED STATES.

199

Opinion of the Court.

When the two years which terminated the existence of the
commission had expired, a considerable balance of this sum
remained in the hands of the government, against which no
claims had been established.
In this condition a special act of Congress authorized Atocha
to present his claim to the Court of Claims, and if established
to the satisfaction of that court, it was to be paid out of this
fund. That court found in his favor, and the United States
asldng an appeal it was refused. On an application to this
court for a writ of mandamus to compel the Court of Claims
to allow the appeal, it was urged bX counsel for the government that the case being one cognizable under the gefieral
jurisdiction of that court on an implied contract, there was a
right to appeal, though by the special statute referring the case
to that court no such righ.t .was given.
The court, in reply to this, said that since the act of Mlarch
3, 1862, in which the provision, embodied as, ยง 1066 of the Rev.
Stat., was first passed, the Court of Claims had no jurisdiction
over this class of cases by virtue of the acts conferring its general powers. "These acts have since then (said the court)
applied only to claims made directly against the United States,
and for payment of which they were primarily liable, if liable
at all, and not to claims against other governments, the payment of which the United States had assumed or might assume
by treaty. The act of June 25, 1868, whilst allowing appeals
in behalf of the United States from all final judgments of the
Court of Claims, did not change the character of the claims of
which that court could previously take cognizance. Claims
under treaty stipulations are not brought within it, and when
jurisdiction over such claims is conferred by special act, the
authority of that court to hear and determine them is limited
and controlled by the provisions of that act."
That was a case in which, by the express terms of the treaty,
the United States had assumed the debt of Ifexico to Atocha
and others of his class. The present is a case in which such
assumption is implied from the circumstances of the treaty' and
the receipt of the money.
In the former case the United States agreed, for a valuable

OCTOBER TERM,, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

consideration in land or territory, to pay to Mexico $3,250,000
to her creditors residing in the United States. In the latter
the government received $15,500,000 from England, under
what is alleged to be an implied promise to pay a class of
American claims against her. We can see no difference in
principle in the two cases, as they have relation to the fact
that both claims grew out of, and were dependent on, treaty
stipulations.
This limitation of the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims is
in accord with the uniform course of the government in dealing
with claims of our citizens against foreign governments. In
such cases, where those governments have acknowledged a
liability, but the amount or the number of the claims is in controversy, mixed connissions, composed of arbitrators appointed
by each party, and an umpire, have usually been created by
a treaty, which made the award of the comnission obligatory.
In cases like that of Guadaloupe Tidalgo and the Treaty of
Washington, under which the present claim arises, where the
foreign nation pays, or agrees to pay, to this government a
fixed sum in discharge of the class of claims which is the subject of treaty, Congress has provided a comnission at home to
pass upon the claims asserted under the treaty.
In no case that we are aware of has Congress conferred on
any judicial tribunal the power to adjudicate such claims as a
class, and in the case of Atocha, where a reference of a single
claim was made to the Court of Claims, its action was rather
in the nature of a commission to ascertain the facts than a
judicial tribunal, as in other cases, and hence no appeal was
allowed.
In the case of the Geneva Award, one such commission has
been created by act of Congress, and its term of service hag
expired. Another is now in existence, under another act, for
the same purpose, namely, the distribution of the sum paid
under that award, and Congress is still devoting its attention
to other means for the proper distribution of the remainder of
this fund.
For these reasons we are of opinion that the Court of Claims

FOSTER v. KANSAS.
Syllabus.

had no jurisdiction of the case presented by the petition of
appellant, and its decree dismissing it is
-Affi.'~ned.
In Paulson's case the learned Justice added: This case was
tried at the same time, in the Court of Claims, as the Great
Western Insurance Co. v. the same defendant, and was decided
on the same facts and the same judgment was then rendered.
It was argued in this court with that case, and the judgment of
the Court of Claims is affirmed for the reasons given in the opinion
in that case.

FOSTER v. KANSAS, e.o rel. JOHNSTON,

Attorney-

General.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
Sabmitted October 14, 18S4.-Decided October 27, and November 10,1884.
A writ of error operates as a suspersedeas only from the time of the lodging of
the writ in the office of the clerk where the record to be examined remains.
9 1007 Rev. Stat., concerning stay of execution does not apply to judgments of
highest State courts. Doyle v. Wisconsin, 94 U. S. 50, affirmed.
When a judgment of a State court removes a State officer and thereby vacates
the office, and a writ of error from this court is allowed for the reversal of
that judgment, one appointed to the vacancy with knowledge of the granting of the writ of error on the part of the judge of the Supieme Court of
the State making the appointment, but before the filing of the writ in the
clerk's office where the record remains, is guilty of no contempt of this
court in assuming to perform the duties of the office.
A State law prohibiting the manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors, is
not repugnant to the Constitution of the United States. Bartemeyer v.
Iowa, 18 Wall. 129, and Beer Co. v. ffassachusetts, 97 U. S. 25, affirmed,
Information in the nature of qto warrantois a civil proceeding in Kansas.
Ames v. Kansas, 111 U. S. 449, affirmed.
A State statute regulating proceedings for removal of a person from a State
office is not repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, if it provides for bringing the party into court, notifies him of the case he has to
meet, allows him to be heard in defente, and provides for judicial deliberation and determination. Kefinard v. Louisianra, 92 U. S. 480,
affirmed.

