OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

she had gone off two points by starboarding, and brought
green light to green light. This is the point in judgment in
The Earl of Elgin, L. IR.4 P. C. App. 1.
But it is urged for the: Jones that the porting mentioned in
the fifth finding was a porting in ext'emis, and, therefore, excusable. The finding is not to that effect. The changes made
bytthe Willis are found to have been proper and were proper.
This being so, no fault of the Willis induced the final act of
porting by the Jones. To be an excusable mistake in ecetremis,
a pardonable manceuvre, though contributing to or inducing a
collision, when the manoeuvre would have. been faulty if not
excusable, it must be one produced by fault or mismanagement
in the other vessel. 2Tew York & Liverpool Steamship Co.
v. 1?umball, 21 How. 372, 383; Thke 3Tichols, 7 Wall. 656, 666;
The .Carroll,8 Id. 302, 305; The Dexter, 2S Id. 69, 76; The
Bywell Castle, 4 P. D. 219. The last case is a well-considered
judgment by Lords Justices James, Brett and Cotton, in the
Court of Appeal, and the rule there formulated is, that "where
one ship has, by wrong manceuvres, placed another ship in a
position of extreme danger, that other ship will not be held to
blame if she has done something wrong, and has not been
manceuvred with perfect skill and presence of mind."
On the whole case, we are of opinion that
Te decree of the Circuit Court must be affirmed, but without
interest o2h the amount of that decree.

BRITTON & Another v. THORNTON.
IN ERROR. TO THE CIRCUIT COIURT *OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
'WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued November 26, 18S4.-Declded December 15, 1884.

Under a devise to one person infee, and, in case he should die under age and

without children, to another in fee, the devise over takes effect upon, the
death at any time of the first devisee under age and without childrein.
A testator devised to E, daughter of his son N, a parcel of land in fee, provided that should E die in her minority, and without lawful issue then

BRITTON v. THORNTON.
Statement of Facts.
living,-the land should reyert and become a part of the residue of his
estate; devised other land to his son W for life, and to J, son of W, in
fee, with a like proviso; gave to his widow certain real and personal
property for life; and devised the residue of his estate to his executors, and
directed that the income be suffered to accumulate until his eldest grandchild then living should. attain the age of twenty-one years, or until the
decease of his son W, whichever should first occur, and then the whole to
be equally divided among all his grandchildren then living, and in making
such division the amount of the devises to J and to E, according to an
estimate of their present value, to be made.by three appraisers, to be
charged to tnem'as part of their respective shares. Reld, That the estate
of E in the land specifically devised to her was devested by her dying
under age and without issue, though after the deaths of the testator and
of W.
A statute of a State, enacting that two concurring verdicts and judgments in.
ejeetment shall be conclusive of the title, establishes a rule of property in
land within the State, and binds the courts of the United States.
Under the statute of Pennsylvania of April 13, 1807, enacting that tw concurring verdicts and judgment thereon between the same parties in ejectment shall be conclusive and bar the right, one judgment on a special verdict is not conclusive of any fact found by that verdict; and two verdicts
and judgments are not conclusive upon a title not therein.adjudicated.

This was an action of ejectment brought on April 12, 1880,
in the Court of Common Pleas of the County of Fayette and
State of Pennsylvania, by John Russell Thornton, a citizen of
that State, against George A. Wilson, a citizen of Ohio, and
William Britton and George E. Hogg, citizens of Pennsylvania,
his tenants at will; and removed by Wilson into the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Western District of Pennsylvania.
At the trial in that court, before a jury, both parties claimed
title under the will of Joseph Thornton, who died on October
25, 183c" seized of thd land; the plaintiff as his surviving grandchild, and the defendants through Eliza Ann Thornton; and
the following facts were admitted:
Joseph Thornton's will, which was duly admitted to probate,
besides devising certain real and personal property to his widow
for life, directing his executors to pay at their disctetion to his
son Nelson the sum of $365 a year during his life, and making other devises and bequests, contained the following:
*"Item I give and devise to my son, William S. Thornton,

' 528

OCTOBER TERM,

1884.

Statement, of Facts.

during his natural life, all-that body of land lying in Luzerne
Township, Fayette County, on which he now lives, consisting
of four parcels adjoining each other, which' I purchased of
Samuel MeMullin, Nicholas Miller, Eliza Coleman, and the
heirs of Abraham Merritt, to hold the same without impeachment of waste."
"Item: To my grandson, Joseph Thornton, son of my said
son William, I give and devise all the lands in tie preceding
item devised to his father, to possess and enjoy the same
from the death of his father, forever: Provided, that [if] the
said Joseph die in his minority, and without lawful issue
then living, the said land shall revert and b6come a part
of the residue and remainder of my estate hereinafter disposed of.",
"Item: To Eliza Ann Thornton, natural daughter of my
said son Nelson, I give and devise all that plantation bought
of Andrew Porter and John Davis, lying on the Monongahela
River, in Luzerne Township, adjoining Eliza Crawford, Thomas
Neelan, Joseph Crawford, and Joseph Crawford, Jr., containing, as is supposed, twd hundred and sixty acres, besides allowances, be the same more or less, she paying out of the rents to
my executors the sum of three hundred and sixty-five [dollars]
annually during the life of mny said son Nelson : Pr6vided, that
should the said Eliza Ann die in her minority, and without
lawful issue then living, the land hereby devised shall revert
and become a part of the residue of my estate -hereinafter
disposed of."
"Item: All the rest and residue of my estate not heretofore
disposed I give, devise and bequeath to my executors; and I
do hereby authorize and empower theni, or the survivor of
them or their successors in the said office, to sell and convey
any and all of my real estate not herein fully disposed of, if in
their discretion they shall think it for the advantage or convenience of my estate, and whenever they may think proper so
to do; and in the mean time to receive the rents, issues and
profits of the real estate and the proceeds of the personal and
the dividends of all stocks, and apply them to the payment of
the legacies of this my will.

BRITTON v. THORNTON.
Statement of Facts.

"It is my will that the rents, issues and profits 6f the real
estate given to my executors, or the proceeds thereof, if sold,
and the dividends of all my estate given to them, or the proceeds, if sold, and the proceeds of all other personal estate not
required to pay the debts and legacies heretofore given, be
vested by my executors in stocks or put out at interest and suffered to accumulate until.my eldest grandchild then living shall
attain the age of twenty-one years, or until ihe decease of my
son William, whichever shall first occur, and then the whole to
be equa~y divided among all my grandchildren then living, and
the children of any who may be dead leaving issue, such issue
The said Eliza Ann, natural
to take by representation.
daughter of my son Nelson, to be considered a grandchild, and
to be entitled to share as such; and in making such division
the amount of the devise made to Joseph, son. of my son William, and to the said Eliza Ann, according to an estimate of
their present value, to be made by three men appointed by my
executors or by the Orphans' Court, to be charged to them or
their children as part of their respective shares."
William S. Thornton died in 1852, before any of the testator's
grandchildren had attained the age of twenty-one years. Eliza
Ann Thornton, on January 1, 1856, married John S. Krepps,
and died on January 23, 1857, without lawful issue then living,
and leaving her husband her heir at law; and he, on November16, 1872, conveyed the land in dispute to Britton, who, on
March 8, 1873, conveyed an undivided half of it to Ilogg; and
on February 8, 1878, Britton and "Hogg conveyed the whole
to the defendant Wilson. Krepps died on November 16,1873.
The plaintiff, John Russell Thornton, was the sole surviving
grandchild and heir at law of the testator, l the other grandchildren having died without issue.
There was conflicting evidence of the date of Eliza Ann's
birth; the evidence lor the plaintiff tending to show that it
was February 12, 1836; and the evidence for the defendants
tending to show that it was February 12, 1835.
The defendants requested the court to instruct the jury that,
William S. Thornton having died in the lifetime of Eliza Ann,
she, as grandchild of the testator, and by virtue of the residuary
OL cxi-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

clause in his will, became entitled in fee to the land in dispute,
and"that the defendants, having succeeded to her title, were
entitled to a verdict. The court refused this instruction; and
afterwards instructed the jury that the case turned upon their
determination "of the contested question of fact, whether she
died before or after attaining the age of twenty-one years; and
thal if she died under that age, and the plaintiff was the only
living descendant of the testator, he was entitled io recover.
The defendants put in evidence a certified copy of a record
of the Circuit Court at May term 1878, of an action of ejectment between the same parties for the same land, in which a
special verdict was returned finding the facts above admitted,
and also that Eliza Ann at the time of her death was above
the age of twenty-one years, and a judgment was rendered
thereon, which was still in force and unreversed. The defendants requested that the jury might be instructed that that verdict and judgment were conclusive evidence that Eliza Ann was
of age at the time of her death, and therefore the verdict in this
case must be for the defendants. This instruction was refused.
The defendants then put in evidence a certified copy of a record of the Court of Common Pleas of Fayette County at March
term 1858, of an action of ejectment for the same land, brought
by Joseph Thornton's executors against Krepps (under whom
these defendants claimed title), by which it appeared that a
verdict was returned for Krepps under an instruction of the
court that he was entitled to possession as the surviving husband of-Eliza Ann, and judgment was rendered thereon, which
.was still in full force and unreversed. The defendants requested the court to instruct the jury that the verdicts and
judgments in the two cases, records of which had been put in
evidence by them, availed in law to conclude the controversy,
and the verdict in this case should be for the defendants. The
court refused this instruction, because by the record of 1858 it
appeared that the only matter determined was that Krepps, as
surviving husband of Eliza Ann,took a life estate as tenant by
the curtesy; upon any construction of the will of Joseph Thornton, and whether she died under or above the age of twentyone years.

BRITTON v. THORNTON.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The defendants excepted to the refusals to instruct and to
the instructions given in this case, and, a verdict being returned
for the plaintiff, sued out this writ of error.
Mrb. George Skiras, Jr., for plaintiff in error.-I. In the
proviso to the specific devise the testator was contemplating
and providing for the death of Eliza Ann in his lifetime. The
testator used the same language in the devise to Joseph. It is
not probable that he intended that they should take absolute
estates in the residuary part of his estate, and defeasible estates in the laud specifically devised to them. Our construction gives effect to both clauses of the will. See 3 Jarman on
Wills, ch. 48 ; Doe v. Sparrow, 13 East, 359. Another view is
that the testator may have meant the death of Eliza Ann before the time fixed for the division. Besant v. Cox, 6 Oh. Div.
604; Olivant v. IV'ight, 1 Oh. Div. 316. The Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania was in efror in supposing that Eliza Ann died
before the time for the division.-II. Not disputing that in
Pennsylvania a single verdict and judgment in ejectment is not
conclusive as to title, even between the same parties, we contend that the special verdict and judgment were conclusive as
to the question of fact, Eliza Ann's age. The general principle is that a point or matter of fact, once adjudicated by a court
of competent jurisdiction, may be shown and relied on as an
estoppel in any subsequent suit, in the same or any other court,
when either party, or the privies of either party, allege anything inconsistent with it; and this, too, whether the subsequent suit is upon the same or a different cause of action. Betts
v. Starr, 5 Conn. 550; Hoikins v. Lee, 6 Wheat. 109; Outram v. .2orewood,3 East, 346 ; Aurora City v. West, 7 Wall.
82, 94; Toga Railroadv. Blossburg Railroad,20 Wall. 137.III. Adnitting the general rule in Pennsylvania that two successive verdicts and judgments in ejectment in favor of the
same, party are conclusive, we claim that, if the record discloses,
in one of the cases, that the verdict and judgment were obtained
because of some fact in the case which was conclusive in that
particular case only, (hen such verdict and judgment do noe
count as against the losing party. The act of April 13, 1807,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

by its 4th section provides that two successive verdicts and
judgments "shall be final and conclusive and bar the right."
Nothing is said in the statute as to the incidents or evidence in
the tria s. Its terms attribute final and conclusive effect to the
verdicts and judgments, regardless of other questions than the
identity of the parties and of the causes of action.
MR. JusTicE G-uA delivered the opinion of the court. He
recited the facts as above stated, and continued:
The question which lies at the foundation of this case is what
estate Eliza Ann Thornton took in the land which Joseph
Thornton specifically devised to her, "provided that, should
the said Eliza Ann die in her minority, and without lawful
issue then living, the lands hereby devised shall revert and
become part of the residue of my estate hereinafter disposed
of."
By.this specific devise, Eliza Ann Thornton took an'estate in
fee, defeasible by an executory devise over.
That the estate devised to her, though without words of inheritance, was not an estate for life merely, but was an estate in fee, is
not disputed, and is apparent from the description of the subject
of the devise as "that plantation bought of Andrew Porter and
John Davis;" from the charg, imposed upon her personally,
to pay an annuity out of the rents; and from the devise over
in the contingency of her dying under age and without issue
then living, thereby implying that her estate would not be terminated by her death after coming of age or leaving issue; as
well as from the provision of the stathte of Pennsylvania of
April 8, 1833, that "all devises of real estate shall pass the
whole estate of the testator in the premises devised, although
there be no words of inheritance or of perpetuity, unless it appear by a devise over, or by words of limitation or otherwise
in the will, that the testator intended to devise a less estate."
2 Jarman onTWills (5th Am. ed.) 270, 271, 276, and note 2;
Purdon's Digest (10th ed.) 1475, § 10.
It is equally clear that, upon her death under age and without issue then living, her estate in fee was defeated by the executory devise over. When indeed a devise is made to one

BRITTON v. THORNTON.
Opinion of the Court.

person in fee, and "in case of his death" to another in fee, the
absurdity of speaking of the one event which is sure to occur
to all living as uncertain and contingent has led the courts to
interpret the devise over as referring only to death in the testator's lifetime. 2 Jarman on Wills, ch. 48; Briggs v. Sh'zw,
9 Allen, 516 ; Lord Cairns in O'Vafakoney v. Burdett, L. R. 7
I. L. 388, 395. But when the death of the first taker is
coupled, with other circumstances which may or may not ever
take place, as, for instance, death under age or without children, the devise over, unless controlled by other provisions of
the will, takes effect, according to the ordinary and literal
meaning of the words, upon death, under the circumstances indicated, at any time, whether before or after the death of the
testator.* O'3falwney v. Burdett, above cited; 2 Jarman on
Wills, ch. 49.
We find nothing in this will to take the case out of the general rule, or to support the argument of the plaintiff in error
that the testator intended that the devise over should not take
effect if Eliza Ann survived him, or at least if she survived his
son William.
The phrase in the specific devise that, in the prescribed contingency, the land shall "revert and become part of the residue," is quite as consistent with the happening of the contingency after the estate has once vested in the devisee, as with
its happening in the testator's lifetime and before any estate
has vested in her.
The direction in the residuary clause that the residue shall
be divided among all the testator's grandchildren when the oldest living grandchild shall attain the age of twenty-one years,
or at the death of the testator's son William, whichever shall
first occur, does not necessarily require a single and final division of the whole residue upon the death of William or the
coming of age of a grandchild; for either of those events
might happen before the termination of the widow's estate for
life in that part of the property, real 'and personal, which upon
hei death must fall into the residue; and the coming of age of
a grandchild might happen during the life of William, to whom
also the testator had devised a life estate in other land.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

The provision that Eliza Ann, a natural daughter of the tes.
tator's son Nelson, shall be considered a grandchild and share
as such in the residue, is coupled with a provision that the
specific devise to her, according to an estimate to be made of
its value, shall be charged to her as part of her share. The
reasonable construction of this .provision, as both parties agree,
is that the estimate made for that purpose shall be of the value
of the land 'devised to her, not of the value of her defeasible

estate in the land. By estimating the land at its full value, she
would take an equal share with each grandchild in the whole
property, if her estate in the land became indefeasible; and she
-Wouldlose no more than the land, if her estate was defeated
by the contingency prescribed in the specific devise, of her dy-"°
ing in her minority qnd without issue, then living.
By the specific devise, it is only upon that contingency that
the land devised to her is to "revert and become a part of the
residue;" and, upon a view of the whole will, we are satisfied
that the Circuit Court rightly held that she took nothing in
this land under the residuary devise, and that her title under
the specific devise was defeated by her dying under age and
leaving no issue surviving her.
This conclusion accords with that of the Supreme Court of
pennsylvania in an action of ejectment for the same land,
brought in 1874 by John Rus§ell Thornton, the present plaintiff, against Britton,-one of the grantors of the present defendant Wilson, in which that court, as appears by opinions not
officially reported, but copies of which have been submitted to
us, held, and, upon petition for reargument, reaffirmed, that,
"as to this particular tract of land, the estate of Eliza Ann becaie extinct, by the terms of the will itself, at the tine of her
death without issue."
The other questions in the case depend upon the construction
and effect of the statute of Pennsylvania of April 13, 1807, by
which, "when two verdicts shall, in any writ of ejectment between the same parties, be giveh in succession for the plaintiff
or defendant, and judgment be rendered thereon, no new ejectment shall be brought; but when there may be verdict against
verdict between the same parties, and judgment thereon, a

BRITTON v. THORNTON.
Opinion of the Court.

third ejectment in such case, and judgment thereon, shall be
final andconclusive, and bar the right." Pardon's Digest, 535,

§ 15.

This statute, giving a conclusive effect to judgments in ejectment, which they did not have at common law, establishes a
rule of property concerning the title in land within the State
of Pennsylvania, and binds the courts of the United -States as
well as the courts of the State. _iles v. Caldwell, 2 Wall.
35; Blanchard v. Brown,3 Wall. 245; Equator Co. v. .all,
106 U..S. 86.
By the clear intention of this sttute, as by its uniform interpretation by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, it requires
two concurring verdicts and judgments thereon in a commonlaw ejectment between the same parties, upon the same title,
to conclude the right. The words '"the same parties" of
course include their heirs or assigns. Evans v. Patterson, 4
Wall. 224; .Drexel v. -Man, 2 Penn. St. 267. An award of
referees has been made by the legislature, and a judgment
after full hearing upon general demurrer or case stated has
been deenred by the court equivalent to a verdict. Ives v.
.eet, 14 S.& R. 301; 3fercer v. Watson, 1 Watts, 330. But
in 3ereer,v. Wa.on the court, after full consideration of the
terms of the statute and of the reasons for its passage, concluded that "the legislature did not intend to bar the party
from bringing a new action of ejectment for the same land,
upon the same title, until after two decisions should be had
against him upon a full view and consideration of the whole of
his case, and all the circumstances connected with it which he
might think material, either by two judgments of a court of
competent jurisdiction rendered upon gneral verdicts, special
verdicts, cases stated, or in cases of demurrer to the pleadings
or the eviddnce." I Watts, 344. And in ' easter v. Fleisher,
7 W. & S. 137, it was adjudged that, although the statute did
not expressly say so, the former verdicts and judgments must
have been on the same title; because, in the words of Chief
JTustice Gibson, "it certainly could not have been intended
that a title should be barred by adjudication without having
been adjudicated." 7 W. & S.138. To the same effect are

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

Kinter v. Jenks, 43 Penn. St. 445 ; (07sev. Ii'in,87 Penn.
St. 286; Barows v. Zindred, 4 Wall. 399, and .erymnan v.
Bourne, 9 Wall. 592.
The special verdict in the former action in the Circuit Court
had no greater effect than a general verdict, and could not,
consistently with the statute, be held to be of itself conclusive
upon the general question of title, or upon any question necessarily involved in the determination of that title.
The verdict and judgment in the former action in the Court
of Common Pleas were incompetent evidence under the statute,
because, as the bill of exceptions in the present case shows,
they did not pass upon the question whether Eliza Ann had an
indefeasible title in the land, but only upon the point that her
husband had a title by the curtesy therein, whether her title
was defeasible or indefeasible. - In Pennsylvania, birth of issue
is, not necessary to create an estate by the curtesy. Purdon's
Digest, 806, § 4; Tnornton v. _repvs, 37 Penn. St. 391.
Judgment caffined.

CHEW HEO1NG v. UNITED STATES.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Argued October 30,1884.-Decided December 8, 1884.
The fourth section of the act of Congress, approved May 6, 1882, ch. 126, as
amended by the act of July 5, 1884, ch. 120, prescribing the certificate
which shall be produced by a Chines laborer as the "only evidence permissible to establish his right of re-entry" into the United States, is not appicabie to Chinese laborers who, residing in this country at the date of the
treaty of November 17,1880, departed by sea before May 6, 1882, and remainedi out of the United States until after July 5, 1884.
The rule re-affirmed that repeals of statutes by implication are not favored,
and are never admitted where the former can stand with the new act.
Courts uniformly refuse to give to statutes a retrospective operation, whereby
rights previously vested are injuriously affected, unless compelled to do so
by language so clear and positive as to leave no room t6 doubt that such
was the intention of the legislature.

Chew Heong, a Chinese laborer, arrived in the United States

