SCOTLAND COUNTY v. HILL.
Statement of Facts.

SCOTLAND COUNTY v. RILL.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOP THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Argued October 21, V, 1884.-Decided November 10, 1884.

The judgment of a State court in Missouri adverse to the validity of bonds
issued by a county in th..t State in payment of the subscription to stock in
a railroad company, which judgment was made in a suit brought by citizens
and tax-payers against county officers in order to enjoin the issue of the
bonds, and to have them declared invalid, is a binding adjudication in a
suit against the county by a holder of the bonds who took with notice of the
pendency of the suit. The fact that this court, in another case, on a diferent state of facts held the issue to be valid does not affect this result.
An offer of proof being made and rejected, and exceptions duly taken, the
appellate court must, in the absence of an indication in the record of bad
faith in the offer, assume that the proof could have been made if allowed.

This action was brought to recover on bonds of the same issue
sued upon in County of Scotland v. Thonas, 94 U. S. 682. It
differs from that case in this: The fourth plea avers that
after the bonds, from which the coupons sued for were cut,
had been executed by the officers of the County Court, they were
placed in the hands of Charles Metz, as trustee of the county;
that on the 11th of September, 1871, while they were in his
hands, Levi Wagner and other citizens and tax-payers of the
county brought a suit against him, the justices of the County
Court, the treasurer of the county, and the :Missouri, Iowa
and Nebraska Railway Company, in the Cirquit Court of the
county, the object and purpose of Which was to enjoin Metz
from delivering the bonds to the railroad company, and to have
them declared void and cancelled for want of authority in the
county to subscribe to the stock of the company; that all the
defendants were served with process and appeared in the suit;
that a preliminary injunction was allowed as prayed for; and
that, upon final hearing, a decree was rendered, which was
afterwards affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State, declaring the bonds void for want of authority in the county to sub-

OCTOBER TER3T, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

scribe to the stock of ,the railroad company, and directing that
they be delivered up for cancellation. The plea then further
avers that Metz delivered tfie bonds to the railroad company
after this suit was begun and after the preliminary injunction
was granted, and that Hill, the plaintiff, and all the persons
who have ever held the coupons sued for, took them without
giving value therefor, "and with full actual notice of every
fact" in the plea set forth. Issue was taken on this plea, and
at the, trial the county offered in evidence the record in the
Wagner suit. To the introduction of this evidence the plaintiff
objected, "on the ground that the bonds were delivered to the
railroad company before any injunction was issued, and that
the bond is a legal act of the county and valid in anybody's
hands.".

This objection was sustained.

.

The county then

,offered in evidence, after due proof of execution, a bond executed by the railroad company to Metz on September 21,
1871, to indemnify him "against all damages, costs, expenses,
&c., which the said Metz, as Irustee of the county of Scotland
aforesaid, . . . 'may incur by reason of certain injunction
suits now pending in-the Scotland County Circuit Court, or by
reason of any petition for injunction which may be filed before
Judge E. V. Wilson, in Clark County, Missouri, on September
22, 1871." This was objected to, and the objection sustained.
The defendant then "offered to prove by Charles Metz, the
agent named in the pleadings, that he had actual notice of the
pendency of the aforesaid suit of Levi.T'agner et al. v. .etz et
al., at the time he delivered the instruments (described in the
defendant's pleading) to the Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska
Railway Company, and offered to prove that the Missouri,
Iowa and Nebraska Railway Company, and each subsequent
holder, received the instruments referred to in the plaintiff's
petition with actual notice of the pendency of the aforesaid
suit

.

.

.

as set up in the fourth count of this answer."

This was also objected to and the objection sustained. To all
these rulings excluding testimony exceptions were duly taken,
and error is assigned here thereon.
.Yr.

enry .A. Cunninghamfor plaintiff in error.

SCOTLAND COUNTY v. HILL.
Opinion of the Court

.Mr..F. .Hughes (Ifr.A. J. Baker was with him) for defendant in error.

Mr.h. CarEF JUSTICE WLITE delivered the opinion of the court.
He stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
All the rejected evidence was, in our opinion, improperly excluded. The decree in the Wagner suit was set up as a bar to
the action, on the ground that the liability of the county for
the coupons was res judicata between the parties. The suit,
although brought by citizens and tax-payers of the county, was,
in effect, the same as though brought by the county itself to
test the validity of the subscription which had been, made to
the stock of the company and the power of the County Court to
bind the county to pay the bonds which it was proposed to issue
for the subscription. The county was itself a party through the
justices of the County Court, which, in Mlissouri, is the governing
board and represents the county in all such matters. The whole
purpose of the suit was to keep the bonds from the market as
commercial paper, and to have them cancelled. The suit was
about the bonds and the liability of the county thereon. The
decree was in accordance with the prayer of the bill, and certainly concluded both Metz and the railroad company. After
the rendition of this decree the company could not sue and recover on the bonds, because, as between the company and the
county, it had been directly adjudicated that the bonds were
void and of no binding effect on the county. But it is equally
well settled that the decree binds not only Metz and the company, but all who bought the bonds after the suit was begun,
and who were chargeable with notice of its pendency or of the
decree which was rendered. The case of County of Warrenr v.
_Varay, 97 U. S. 96, decides that pulchasers of negotiable
securities are not chargeable with constructive notice of' the
pendency of a suit affecting the title or validity of the securities; but it has never been doubted that those who buy such
securities from litigating parties, with aetual notice of the suit
do so at their peril, and must abide the result the same as the
parties from whom they got their title. Here the offer was to
prove aeetual notice, not only to the plaintiff when he bought,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

btit to every other buyer and holder of the bonds from the time
they left the hands of Ifetz, pending the suit, until they came to
him. Certainly if these facts had been established, the defence
of the county, under its fourth plea, would have been sustained,
and this whether an injunction had been granted at the time
the bonds were delivered by M etz or not. The defence does
not rest on the preliminary injunction, but on the final decree
by which the rights of the parties were fixed and determined.
It is claimed, however, that error cannot be assigned here on
the exception to the exclusion of the oral proof, because the
record does not show that any witness was actually called to
the stand to give the evidence, or that any one was present
who could be called for that purpose, if the court had decided
in favor of admitting it, and we arq referred to the cases of Bobinson v. state, 1 Lea (Tenn.) 673, and Eschback v. ubrtt, 417 Md.
61, 66, in support of that proposition. Those cases do undoubtedly hold that error cannot be.assigned on such a ruling unless
it appears that the offer was made in good faith, and this is in
reality all they do decide. If the trial court has doubts about
the good faith of an offer of testimony, it can insist on the production of the witness, and upon some attempt to make the
,proof before it rejects the offer; but if it does reject it, and allows a bill of exceptions which shows that the offer was actually
made and refused, and there is nothing else in the record to
indicate bad faith, an appellate court must assume that the
proof could have been made, and govern itself accordingly.
It is evident, from the whole record, that the court below
proceeded on the theory that the decree in the Wagner suit
could not conclude the plaintiff, and that consequently it was
a matter of no inportance whether he had notice of the pendency of the suit or not. In our opinion, the error began with
the exclusion of the record in that suit. As notice of the pendency of the suit was, however, necessary to bind the plaintiff
by the decree, proof of that fact was offered, so that the question as to the effect of the decree upon this suit might be properly presented for review if deemed advisable. The court
below seems not to have doubted the good faith of the offer,
and so ruled against it without first requiring the defendant to

AYRES v. WISWALL. Statement of Facts.

produce his witnesses and show his ability to furnish the testimony if allowed to do so.
It is a matter of no importance whether the decision in
the Wagner suit was in conflict with that of this court in
Scotland County v. Thomas, mpra, or not. The question here
is -ot one of authority but of adjudication. If there has been
an adjudication which binds the plaintiff, that adjudication,
whether it was right or wrong, concludes him until it has been
reversed or otherwise set aside in some direct proceeding for
that purpose. It cannot be disregarded any more in the courts
of the United States than in those of the State.
Without considering any of the other questions which have
been argued, we reverse the judgment and
Je'mand the cause for a new trial,

AYRES & Others v. WISWALL & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
Submitted October 20, 184.-Decided November 10, 1684.
In a proceeding commenced in a State court to foreclose a mortgage, which
prays judgment that the mortgage debtors be adjudged to pay the amount

found due on the debt, and in default thereof that the property be sold, a
mortgage debtor who has parted with his interest in the property subject to
the debt (which the purchaser agreed to assume and pay), is a necessary
party to the suit ; and if he is a citizen of the same State with the mortgagees, or one of them, the suit cannot be removed to the Circuit Court of
the United States under the provision of the first clause of ยง 2, act of March
3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470.
The filing of separate answers by several defendants in a suit for the foreclosure of a mortgage, which raise separate issues in defending against the one
cause of action, does not create separate controversies within the meaning of
the second clause in . 2, act of March 3, 1875. 18 Stat. 470.

This is an appeal under ยง 5 of the act of Mlarch 3, 1875, ch.
137, IS Stat. 470, from an order of the Circuit Court remand-

