OOTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

had been brought, judiciously and effectively secured the rights
of all parties.
The price obtained by the sale oL the railroad and other
property, subject to her mortgage, must have been less than if
they had been sold free of that mortgage; and to order the
amount of that mortgage to be paid out of the proceeds of the
sale would _pro tano benefit the purchaser if the sale was carried out, or the railroad corporation in case of redemption, to
the corresponding detriment of the holders of bonds secured
by the railroad mortgages.
The railroad corporation, after having redeemed its property
from the railroad mortgages, will h-old it subject to any valid
lien of the appellant, just as it did before the proceedings for
foreclosure .were instituted.
.Decree offirrnd.

NEW ORLEANS, MOBILE & TEXAS RAILWAY CO. '.
THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI, ex rel. The District Attorney.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE INITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRIOT OF MISSISSIPPI.
Argued October 15, 184.-Decided October 27, 1M4.

The act of February -Tth, 1867, of the Legislature of Mississippi (Laws of 1867,
882), and the act of August 19th, 1868, of the Legislature of Louisiana (Acts
of La. 1869, No. 28, p. 32), and the act of Congress of March 2d, 186&(15
Stat. ,88), relating to the construction and maintaining of bridges over
navigable waters on the route of a railroad between Mobile and New Orleans,
when taken together so far as the last two may be considered in this case,
do not release the plaintiff in error from the obligation imposed upon it by
the said act of the Legislature of Mississippi to maintain a drawbridge
with a space of sixty feet for the passage of vessels, across the channel of
Pearl River, in its main channel, constituting the dividing line between
Mississippi and Louisiana.

This was a petition for mandamus by the Attorney-General
of the State of Mississippi on behalf of the State, brought in
the courts of that State, and removed to the Circuit Court of

N. ORLEANS, IOB. & TEXAS R'Y CO. v. MISSISSIPPI. 13
Statement of Facts.

the United States for the Southern District thereof, to compel
the plaintiff in error, as defendant below, to remove a bridge
alleged to have been constructed by it without a draw
across Pearl River, and in lieu thereof to construct and maintain a bridge which should have, in the central part of the
channel, a drawbridge, which when open should give a space
of sixty feet for the passage of vessels. A demurrer was interposed by defendant below, and an answer filed, without
prejudice, to the demurrer. The contentions between the parties are stated in the opinion of the court. Each party in its
contentions referred to the following statutes, which are also
referred to in the opinion of the court.
I. The following clauses in an act of the Legislature of Mississippi, approved February 7th, 1867, relating to plaintiff4n error:
"And it is also provided that said company is authorized and
empowered to construct and maintain its said railfoad over and
across any of the waters of this State on the line of the same
by bridges; Provided,however, That in the central portion of
the channel of the Pearl River, of the Bay of St. Louis, of the
Bay of Biloxi, and of the East Pascagoula River, and in each
of them, said company shall construct and maintain a drawbridge, which, when open, shall give a clear space for the passage of vessels, of not less than sixty feet in width, and said
company, after the construction of the said drawbridges, shall
at all times thereafter, provide that said drawbridges shall
be opened foi the passage of any and all vessels seeking to pass
through the same without unnecessary delay; Pfovided, however, That in case the company shall locate the line of their
road across the channel of the Rigolet, at a point south of or
below the principal entrance of Pearl River into the Rigolet,
then the said company shall not be required to construct a
drawbridge across any bayou leading into Pearl River, or
across any small pass or mouth of said river. It is also provided
that such part of this section as relates to Pearl River, if the
line of the road shall be located across the said river at a point
where it constitutes the boundary line between the State of
Mississippi and the State of Louisiana, shall not take effect until
the State of Louisiana has consented to and authorized the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

same, or said company has built such a bridge across said Pearl,
River, for its said railroad, as shall be in accordance with this
section, and also with any authority or power granted to said
company by the said State of Louisiana in the premises, and
such drawbridge may be built in the centre of the channel of
said Pearl River, or in that portion of the same within the
territory of the State of Louisiana or of this State, as most convenient for public use." Laws of Miss. 1867, pp. 332, 335, 336.
II. The following clauses in an act of the Legislature of
Louisiana, approved August 19th, 1868, in reference to the same
company:
"And it is also provided that said company is authorized
and empowered to construct and maintain its said railroad over
and across the waters of the State of Louisiana, known as the
Pass Chef Menteur, Little Rigolet,. Great Rigolet, or that part
of Lake Pontchartrain east of the west line of Point aux Herebs,
and the West Pearl River, and other streams and bayous between Lake Pontchartrain and Pearl River, and Pearl River,
by bridges; Provided, owever, That in the channel of that
part of Lake Pontchartrain hereinbefore named there shall be
constructed and maintained by said company'a drawbridge,
which, when open, shall givea clear space for the passage of
vessels of not less than one hundred feet in width; and in the
channel of the Pearl River the said company shall construct
and maintain.a drawbridge, which, when open, shall give clear
space for the passage of vessels of not less than sixty feet in
width, except in case the company shall locate their road across
the Great Rigolet at a point south of (or below) the principal
entrance of Pearl River into the Great Rigolet, when the company-shall only be required.to construct one drawbridge, which
shall be in the channel of the Great Rigolet, as hereinbefore
named; and said company,, after the construction of the said
drawbridges or drawbridge, shall at all times thereafter, provide that said drawbridges or drawbridge shall be opened for,
the passage of any and all vessels through the same without
unnecessary delay. I is also rovid4, That such part of this
section as relates to Pearl River, if the line of the road shall
be located across the said river at a point where it constitutes

N. ORLEANS, MOB. & TEXAS R'Y CO. v. MISSISSIPPI. 15
Statement of Facts.

the boundary line between the State of Louisiana and the State
of Mississippi, shall not take effect until the State" of Mississippi has consented to and authorized the same, or said company has built such a bridge across said Pearl River for its said
railroad as shall be in accordance with this section and also
with any authority ^r power granted to said company by the
State of Mississippi in the premises; and such drawbridge may
be built in the centre of the channel of said Pearl River, or in
that portion of the same within the territory of the State of
Mississippi or of this State, as most convenient for public use."
Acts of La. 1868, No. 28, p. 32.
III. The following clause in the act of Congress of March
2d, 1868:
"That the New Orleans, Mobile & Chattanooga Railroad
Company is hereby authorized and empowered to construct,
build and maintain bridges over and across the navigable
waters of the United States on the route of said railroad
between New Orleans and Mobile for the use of said company,
the passage of its trains of cars, passengers, and mail and merchandise thereon. And said Railroad Company. and its bridges
aforesaid, when constructed, completed and in use in accordance with this act and the laws of the several States through
whose territory the same shall pass, shall be deemed, recognized
and known as lawful structures and a post-road, and are hereby
declared as such. Provided,hottever, That the said company,
in the construction of its bridges over and across the waters
known as the Pascagoula River, the Bay of Biloxi, and the Bay
of St. Louis, shall construct and maintain drawbridges in the
channels thereof, which, when open, shall give a clear space for
the passage of vessels of not less than eighty feet in the channels of the East Pascagoula River and of the Bay of Biloxi
and of the T:,y of St. Louis. and of not less than one hundred
the channel of the Great Rigolet; and said company
feet inshall at all times open the said drawbridges, and shall provide
reasonable and necessary facilities for the passage of all vessels
requiring the same, except durin-g and for ten minutes prior to
and after the time of the passage of the mail and passenger
trains of said company." 15 Stat. 38.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the, Court.

The Circuit Court overruled the demurrer of the defendant
below, and sustained the demurrer of the plaintiff below, and
gave judgment accordingly. This writ of error was sued out
to review that judgment.
XITr. Gaylord B. Clalk and -1y. Thomas L. Bayne for plaintiff' in error cited .Miller v. ifayor of lew.York, 109 U. S.
385, and cases there cited; Pennsylvaniav. Teeling Bridge
Co., 13 How. 518; 18 How. 421; Clinton Bridge Case,10 Wall.
454; Escanaba Co. v. Chicago, 107 U. S. 678; South Carolina'
v. Georgia, 93 U. S. 4; Ew parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651,
654; Rev. Code Miss. 1880, §§ 254%, 2551; Bouvier Law Dict.
Tit. Mandamus; High Extraordinary Remedies, §§ 1, 431, 539,
548; Seate v. Zanesville & Ifaysviile Turnpike Co., 16"Ohio
St. 308; United,States v. MeDaniel, 7 Pet. 15 ; Edwards v.
.Darby, 12 Wheat. 207, 210; Bwurgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S.
20, 34, 35 ; Carroll County v. Smith, 111 U. S. 556, 562, 563.
AfXr. J Z. George f6r defendant in error.
M . JusTic

HALRT.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case has been heretofore in this court upon a question
Qf jurisdiction, and is reported as Railroad Co. Y. .3lississippi,
102 U. S. 135. The Supreme Court of Mississippi, in accordance with our decision, reversed the judgment of the inferior
State court, with directions to set aside all orders made subsequent to the presentation of the company's petition and bond
for the removal of the cause, and to proceed no further. - The
case was thereafter tried in the Circuit Court of the United
States. The object of the suit is, by mandamus, to compel the
railroad company, whose line extends from Mobile to New
Orleans, to construct and maintain in the channel of Pearl
River, where that stream is crossed by the company's road, 6n
the line between Mississippi and Louisiana, a drawbridge,
which, when open, will give a clear space of not less than sixty
feet in width for the passage of vessels. It would seem from
the uncontroverted allegations of the petition that the bridge
originally constructed by the company across Pearl River had
no draw, although the channel, at that point, according to the

N. ORLEANS, MOB. & TEXAS R'Y CO. v. MISSISSIPPI. 17
Opinion of the Court.

Coast Chart, has about forty-five feet depth of water, and the
river is nearly three hundred yards in width. But, in the answer filed in the Circuit Court, it was averred, and the demurrer to it admitted, that there was, at that time, a draw
which gave a clear space, for the passage of vessels, of thirtyfour to thirty-six feet in width.
By the final judgment, a peremptory mandamus was
awarded requiring the company to remove the present bridge,
and in lieu thereof construct and maintain one, giving a clear'
space of not less than, sixty feet in width. It is provided in
the judgment that such drawbridge may be built "either in
the centre of the channel of Pearl River, or in that. ortion of
the same within the territory of the State of Louisianu," or of
M1ississippi, as "may be most convenient for public use."
The controlling question is, whether the railroad company
is under any legal obligation to construct and maintain a,
drawbridge of the kind specified in the judgment of the Circuit Court.
The company was incorporated by an act of the General
Assembly of Alabama, approved November 24th, 1866, with
authority to construct a railroad from the city of Mobile to
any point on the line between Alabama and Mississippi; and
also, in continuation thereof, a railroad through Mississippi
and Louisiana, with such rights, privileges and franchises as
might be granted to the corpoiation by the latter States.
Laws of Ala. 1866-1, p. 6. Its existence as a corporation was
recognized and approved by an act of the Legislature of Mississippi, approved February 7th, 1867, by which it was permitted
to have, exercise, and enjoy, within that State, the rights,
powers, privileges and franchises granted to it by the State of
Alabama, subject to the conditions, provisions and restrictions
presented in said act and by the general laws of Mlssissippi.
By the same act the company was authorized to construct and
maintain a railroad from any point on the line between Mississippi and Louisiana, thence towards and to any point on the
line between Mississippi and Alabama, and extend the same,
,as contemplated in its act of incorporation, from the western
boundary of the State to New Orleans, and from its eastern
VOL. CxI.-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

boundary to Mobile. It was given a right of way across the
waters, water-courses, rivers, bays, inlets, streets, highways, turnpikes or canals within Mississippi, subject, however, to the condition that "the said company shallpreseve any water-course,
street, highway, turnpike or canal which its said railroad may
so pass upon, along, intersect, touch or cross, so as not to impair its usefulness to the public unnecessarily; or if temporarily
impaired in and during the construction of said railroad, the
said company shall restore the same to its former state, or to
such state that its usefulness and convenience to the public
shall not be unnecessarily or materially impaired or injured."
But that part of the act which has special reference to the
issues in this case, and upon the construction and Qffect of
which depend the rights of the parties, is given in the statement preceding this opinion.
It will, be observed that reference is made to "the central
portion of the channel of the Pearl River," and, also, to "the
principal entrance'of Pearl River into the Rigolet." It was
not disputed in argument that two distinct localities are here
described. Pearl River is about 375 miles in length. It rises
in the centre of Mississippi, and is navigable, by small craft, in
good stages of water, as far as Jackson, the capital of the
State. Running southwardly, it empties by one of its mouths
into Lake Borgne, and by other mouths into the Rigolet--commonly called the Great Rigolet. The main or eastern branch
of the Pearl, emptying into Lake Borgne, constitutes, for about
one hundred miles above its mouth, to the 31' of north latitude,
the dividing line between Mississippi and Louisiana. 3 Stat.
348. The other branch, constituting a water-way between the
main river and the Great Rigolet, is wholly within the State of
Louisiana. It is clear that the words "in the central portion
of the channel of the Pearl River" have reference to the main
or eastern branch, which constitutes the dividing line between
Mississippi and Louisiana, and consequently, that it was in
the channel of that branch (if the road was located across it)
that the company was required to construct and maintain a
drawbridge, giving a clear space of not less than sixty feet in
width.

N. ORLEANS, MOB. & TEXAS R'Y CO. v. MISSISSIPPI. 19
Opinion of the Court.

But the company's contention is, that the Legislature of
M ississippi intended to relieve it from all obligation to construct a drawbridge in that branch of Pearl River, upon its
locating the road at some point "south of or below the principal entrance of Pearl River" into the Great Rigolet; this,
because, in that contingency, the act expressly declares that
the company "shall not be required to construct a drawbridge
across any bayou leading into Pearl River, or across any small
pass or mouth of the said river." This construction of the
statute necessarily implies that the Legislature of Mississippi
-although carefully providing that the water-courses and
other highways of the State, across which the road was constructed, should be preserved against material or permanent impairment of their usefulness to the public--was willing, in consideration merely of the road being located in Louisiana, south of
or below the principal entrance of the Pearl River into the Great
Migolet, to have the mouth of the main or eastern branch of
that river closed entirely against vessels engaged in commerce.
We say" closed entirely," because the position of the company
is, that the present drawbridge was constructed by it voluntarily, and without any legal obligation whatever to do so;
and that it has the right, consistently with the restrictions imposed upon it by the Mississippi act, to span Pearl River with
a bridge having no draw, and, consequently, with a bridge that
would wholly prevent vessels passing from Lake Borgne into
Pearl River, or from Pearl River into Lake Borgne.
There is just enough in the peculiar and confused wording
of the Mississippi statute to furnish plausible ground for such a
constraction of its provisions. But we are satisfied that the
State did not intend to put it in the power of the railroad company to destroy, for all purposes of navigation, that branch of
Pearl River which empties into Lake Borgne. There is no
ground to infer from the words of the act that a drawbridge,
of the kind indicated, "in the central portion of the channel
of Pearl River," was deemed of any less consequence than like
drawbridges in the Bay of St. Louis, the Bay of Biloxi, and
East Pascagoula River. By language almost too clear to require construction it was made a condition of the exercise,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion.of the Court.

within Mississippi, of the corporate privileges and franchises
of the company, that it should construct and maintain in each
'of those water-ways across which its road might be located, a
drawbridge which, when open, would give a clear space of not
less than sixty feet in width.
This construction finds strong support in the clause immediately succeeding that which refers to the possible location
of the road at a point south of the principal entrance of the
Pearl River into the Great Rigolet. If the line of the road was
located across the Pearl River at a point where it constitutes
the dividing line between Mississippi and Louisiana, then the
section, so far as it related to Pearl River, was not to take
effect until Louisiana gave its assent or the company bult such
a bridge across the Pearl River as was in accordance as well
with that section as with the a'thority granted to the company
by Louisiana; in which event "such drawbridge may be built
in the centre of the channel of said Pearl River or in that portion of the same within the territory of the State of Louisiana
or of this State as may be most convenient for public use." So
far from the Legislature being willing to dispense with a draw
sixty -feet in width across the channel of Pearl River, upon the
location of the road south of the principal entrance of Pearl
River into the Great Rigolet, it would seem that great
care was taken *to secure the assent of Louisiana to just such
a bridge across Pearl River as the Mississippi act contemplated.
The error in the argument in behalf of the company is in
assuming it to be indisputably clear that the words "mouth of
said river," in the clause or proviso relating to the location of
the road south of the principal entrance of Pearl River into
tle Rigolet, refers to the mouth of that branch of 'Pearl
River which empties into Lake Borgne. That construction of
the words "mouth of said river" implies that there was some
provision of the Mississippi act requiring the company to construct its drawbridge at the junction between Pearl River and.
Lake Borgne. But no such provision is contained in the act.
Had the road not been located south of the principal entrance
of Pearl River into the Great Rigolet, the company could have

N. ORLEANS, MOB.

TEXAS R'Y, CO. V. MISSISSIPPI.

1

Opinion of the Court.

constructed its drawbridge in the channel of the main river at
any point above its mouth on the line between Mississippi and
Louiiana. We incline to the opinion that the words "mouth
of said river'? were intended to refer to one of the mouths of
that branch of the Pearl emptying into the Great Rigolet.
The Pearl formed, or was supposed to form, a junction with
the Great Rigolet by more than one mouth. There is a principal entrance or mouth, or the Mississippi Legislature supposed
there was, and there is, or there was supposed to be, a small
pass or small mouth of that branch of the Pearl in the same
locality. If the road .was located across the channel of the
Great Rigolet south of, or below, theprinval entrance of the
Pearl River into the Great Rigolet, the water-way connecting
Pearl River and the Great Rigolet would not be materially
obstructed by the railroad bridge across the latter; and it
would, consequently, not be vital to the people of Mississippi,
interested in the navigation of the river, that drawbridges
should be constructed across bayous leading into Pearl River, in
that locality, or across any small pass or [small] mouth of said
river, near the line upon which the road was located. As the
location of the road south of the principal entrance of Pearl
River into the Rigolet would secure unobstructed navigation
between the Great Rigolet and the main river, through that
branch of Pearl River which empties into the Great Rigolet,
the Legislature of Mississippi was willing to declare that the
construction and maintenance of drawbridges across "any bayou
leading into Pearl River, or across any small pass or [small]
mouth of said river," was not a condition precedent to the exercise by the company, within her limits, of its corporate franchises and privileges. Such, we think, is the more reasonable
construction of the clause in the Mississippi act upon which
the company rests its claim of exemption from the duty to
construct and maintain such a drawbridge as is described in
the final judgment.
It was claimed in argument that the provisions of an act
passed August 19th, 1868, by the Legislature of Louisiana, in
reference to this railroad company, sustains the construction of
the Mississippi act for which the railroad company contends.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

So much of the Louisiana act as bears upon this.point is also
given in the statement preceding this opinion.
If the provisions of the Louisiana act may be consulted
in
determining the construction of the statute of :Mississippi, we
do not perceive anything in them which should lead to a conclusion different from that already indicated. The slight difference in the phraseology of the two acts does not justify the
belief that the Louisiana Legislature contemplated that the
railroad company might cross the Pearl River, on the boundary line between that State and Louisiana, by a bridge which
contained no draw. When the Louisiana act provided that,
upon the location of the road across the Great Rigolet, at a
point south of the principal entrance of Pearl River into the
Great Rigolet, " the company shall only be required to construct one drawbridge,which, shall be in the channel of the
Great JBigolet," it was not me'ant to dispense with the drawbridge required to be maintained in the channel of the Pearl
River at the point where the road crossed that stream on the
dividing line between Louisiana and Mississippi. As already
stated, the location of the road below the principal mouth by
which the Pearl emptied into the Great Rigolet, secured navigation through that 2outh, against obstruction; consequently,
a drawbridge would be unnecessary across other and smaller
mouths by which the Pearl- formed a junction with the Great
Rigolet. To avoid the possibility of any one claiming that
diawbridges should be constructed over all the mouths of the
Pearl, large and small, crossed by the road in the vicinity of
its junction with the Great Rigolet, it was provided that in
the event the road passed below the principal entrance of
Pearl River into the Great Rigolet, only one drawbridge need
be maintained in that locality and that one over the Great

Rigolet.
One other point, pressed upon our attention, remains to be
considered. By an act of Congress, approved March 2d, 1868,
15 Stat. 8S, this railroad company was empowered and authorized to construct and maintain bridges over navigable waters
of the United States on its route between New Orleans and
Mobile. That act declared that the railroad and its bridges,

N. ORLEANS, MOB. & TEXAS R'Y CO. v. MISSISSIPPI. 23
Opinion of the Court.
when constructed, completed and in use, in accordance with
that act, "and the laws of the several States through whose
territory the same shall pass, shall be deemed, recognized and
known as lawful structures and a post-road, and are hereby
declared as such." The same act declares, by way of proviso,"
that the company in the construction of its bridges oier and
across the waters known as East Pascagoula, the Bay of
Biloxi, the Bay of St. Louis, and the Great Rigolet, shall construct and maintain drawbridges in the channels thereof,
which, when open, shaL give a clear space for the passage of
vessels, of not less than eighty feet in the channels of East
Pascagoula River, of the Bay of Biloxi, and of the Bay of St.
Louis, and of not less than one hundred feet in the channel of
the Great Rigolet.
There is nothing in this legislation by Congress which, expressly or by implication, diniinishes in any degre the legal
obligation of the railroad company to maintain such a drawbridge in the channel of Pearl River, on the line between Mississippi and Louisiana, as is required by the laws of those
States. Nor does the act of Congress affect the authority of
any court of competent jurisdiction, as to the parties, to compel the discharge of that obligation. While Congress provided'
that the drawbridges over the East Pascagoula River, the Bay
of St. Louis and the Bay of Biloxi, should give a clear space
of eighty, rather than sixty, feet in width for the passage of
vessels, it did not dispense- with the requirement in the statutes
of Mlississippi and Louisiana of a drawbridge in the channel of
Pearl River. Presumably, Congress was of opinion that a
drawbridge in that river, giving a clear space of sixty feet, was
ample for all purposes of navigation. Hence, the act of March
2d, 18(;68, made no specific refeence to Pearl River. The duty
imposed by the States upon the railroad company, in respect
of a drawbridge in Pearl River, was the same after, as it was
before, the passage of the act of Congress ; for that act, in express words, declares the railroad and its bridges to be lawful
structures and a post-road, 4 when constructed, completed and
in use," in accordance with the act of Congress "and the laws
of the several States through whose territory the same shall

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

pass." Mississippi gave its consent to the exercise and enjoyment by this company of its corporate powers within h~r
limits upon the condition, among others, that it should construct and maintain a drawbridge of a particular kind in the
channel of Pearl River where that stream is crossed by the
company's road. That condition not having been performed,
the State has a right to ask the aid of the court in compelling
its performance. And, in granting the relief asked, no right
belonging to the company, under the Constitution or laws of
the United States, has been violated or withheld.
• idgrnen afi."med.

MOFFAT & Another v. UNITED STATES.
MfOFFAT v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE cIRUTrr COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Submitted October 16, 10S4.-Decided October 27, 18S4.

The presumption of the regularity of all proceedings prior to the issue of a
patent for public lands, which is made against collateral attacks by third
parties, does not exist in proceedings where the United States assail the
patent for fraud in their officers in its issue, and seek its cancellation.

The United States do not guarantee the integrity of their officers, nor the
validity of the acts of such, and are not bound by their misconduct or
fraud.
A land patent issued to a fictitious person conveys no title which can be transferred to a person subsequently purchasing.in good faith from a supposed
owner.
The procuring of the issue of a patent at the Land Office by means of false
documents which purport to show official 1roceedings and acts by subordinate officers which are fictitious, is a fraud upon the jurisdiction of the
Land Office, and not a mere presentation of doubtful and disputed testimony. United States v. .Throckrnorton,98 U. S. 61,and Vance v. Burbank, 101 U. S. 514, distinguished.

These were suits to cancel two patentg'of the United States
for land in Colorado, bearing date on the 4th of October, 1873,
and purporting to be issued, one to a person by the name of

