OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

MARTINTON v. FAIRBANS.
IN

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted December 15, 184.-Decided January 5, 185.

When there is no demurrer to the declaration, or other exception to the sufficiency of the pleadings, no exception to the rulings of the court in the progress of the trial, in the admission or exclusion of evidence, or otherwise, no
request for a ruling upon the legal sufficiency or effect of the whole evidence, or no motion in arrest of judgment, and the only matter presented
by the bill of exceptions which this court is asked to review arises upon the
exception to the general finding by the court for the plaintiff upon the evidence adduced at the trial, no question of law is preseffted which this court
can review.

This suit was brought by the defendant in error, as plaintiff
below, to recover of the plaintiff in error, a municipal corporation, the amount of certain coupons on bonds issued in payment of a subscription to stock in a railroad corporation. The
case-was tried before the judge without the intervention of a jury.
There was a general finding of facts and a judgnen for the
plaintiff below, and a general bill of exceptions by the defendant, which incorporated all the evidence. The defendant sued
out this writ of error. This and the other facts, raising the
question of jurisdiction appear in the opinion of the court.
M21r. Robert -)oyle for plaintiff in error.
-Mr. Thwma S. foClelland and Xrr. George A. Sanders for
defendant in error.
USTICiE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.
Two actions of assumpsit were brought by Fairbanks, the
defendant in error, against the town of Martinton, the plaintiff
in error. One action was brought upon what the declaration
alleges to be "certain instruments in writing called promissory
notes or bonds or railroad bonds" made and issued by the
town. They were not under seal and were payable to bearer.
The other was based on the coupons or interest warrants, also
MR.

MARTINTON v. FAIRBANKS.
Opinion of the Court.

not under seal, which had belonged to and had been detached
from the said bonds. The declaration in both cases was in the
form used in the action of assumpsit. The plea in both cases
was the general issue. The two suits were, by the agreement
of the parties and consent of the cofirt, consolidated and tried
together. The parties filed with the clerk a stipulation in
writing, by which they waived a trial by jury.
The causes were thereupon tried by the court as one case,
and its action was thus stated upon the record: "After hearing the evidence, the court finds the issue for the plaintiff, and
assesses his damages at eleven thousand.. two hundred and nine
dollars." Upon this finding the court entered judgment for
the plaintiff for the damages so assessed.
During the trial a bill of exceptions was taken which simply
set out all the evidence in the case, and closed as follows:
"Which was all the evidence offered in said causes; on which
evidence the court found for the plaintiff in the sum of
$11.209, and entered judgment accordingly, to all of which
said defendant then and there excepted. And, as said facts
aforesaid do not appear of record, this -bill of exceptions is prepared, and we ask that the judge may sign and seal the same,
and it is done accordingly."
There was no demurrer to the declaration or other exception
to the sufficiency of the pleadings, no exception to the rulings
of the court in the progress'of the trial, in the admission or exclusion of evidence, or otherwise, no request for a ruling upon
the legal sufficiency or effect of the whole evidence, and there
was no motion in arrest of judgment. The only matter
presented by the bill of exceptions which this court is asked to
review arises upon the exception to the general finding by the
court for the plaintiff upon the evidence adduced at the trial.
The defendant in error insists that, upon this state of the
record, no question of law is presented which the court here
can review.
We think this contention is well founded. The provisions of
the acts of Congress which relate to the trial of issues of fact
by the court are found in the act of September 24, 1789, "An
Act to establish the judicial courts of the United States," 1

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.

Opinion of the Court.
Stat. 73, ch. 20, § 22, and in the act of March 3, 1865, "An
Act regulating proceedings in criminal cases, and for other
purposes,'" 13 Stat. 500, ch. 86, § 4. The provision in the act
of 1789 is reproduced in § 1011 of the Revised Statutes as follows: "There shall be no reversal in the Supreme Court or in
a Circuit Court upon a writ of eiror . . . for any error of
fact." The provisions of the act of 1865 are reproduced in
% 649, 700 of the Revised Statutes, as follows: SEC. 649.
"Issues of fact in civil cases in any Circuit Court may be tried
and determined by the court, without the intervention of a
jury, whenever the parties, or their attorneys of record, file
with the clerk a stipulation in writing waiving a jury. The
finding of the court upon the facts, which may be either
general or special, shall have the same effect as the verdict of
a jury." SEC. 700. "When an issue of fact in any civil cause
in a.Circuit Court is tried and determined by the court without the intervention of a jury, according to section six hundred and forty-nine, the rulings of the court in the progress of
the trial of the cause, if excepted to at the time and duly presented by a bill of exceptions, may be reviewed by the
Supreme Court upon a writ of error or upon appeal; and,
when the finding is special, the review may extend to the
determination of the sufficiency of the facts found to support
the judgment."
The provision of § 1011 Revised Statutes continues in force
and forbids a reversal of the judgment of the Circuit Court
for any error of fact. Upon the issues of fact raised by the
pleadings in this case there was a general finding for the
plaintiff. The defendant contends that the evidence submitted to the court did not justify this general finding. But,
if the finding depends upon the weighing of conflicting evidence, it was a decision on the facts, the revision of which is
forbidden to this court by § 1011. If the question was whether
all the evidence was sufficient in law to warrant a finding for
the plaintiff,-he should have presented that question, by a request for a definite ruling upon .that point.
§§ 649 and 00 were first fully construed by this court in
-Nwo ' v. Jackson, 9 Wall. 125. The court in that case, speak-

AMARTINTON v. FAIRBANKS.
Opinion of the Cout.

ing by Mr. Justice Miller, laid down the following propositions:
"(1) If the verdict be a general verdict, only such rulings of
the court, in the progress of the trial,can be reviewed as are
presented by bill of exceptions, or as may arise on the pleadings; (2) in such cases a bill of exceptions cannot be used to
bring up the whole testimony for review any more than in a
trial by jury; (3) that if the parties desire a review of the law
involved in the case, they must either get the court to find a
special verdict, which taises the legal propositions, or they
must present to the court their propositions of law, and require
the court to rule on them; (4) that objection to the admission
or exclusion of evidence, or to such ruling on the propositions
of law as the party may ask, must 'appear by bill of exceptions." These propositions have been persistently adhered to
by this court. Thus, in .l/er v. ife Insurance Co., 12 Wall.
285, 297, itwas said: "The finding of the court, if general,
cannot be reviewed in this court by bill of exceptions or in any
other manner."
In Insurance Co. v. Folsom, 18 Wall. 237, the court said:
"Where the finding is general the parties are concluded by the
determination of the court, except in cases where exceptions are
taken to the rulings of the court in the progress of the trial.
Where a case is tried by the court without a jury, the
bill of exceptions brings up nothing for revision except what it
would have done had there been a jury trial."
So in Cooper v. Ornohundro, 19 Wall. 65, this court, affirming the case last cited, held that "where issues of fact are submitted to the Circuit Court, and the finding is general, nothing
is open to reView .
except the rulings of the Circuit
Court in the progress of the trial, and the phrase 'rulings of
the court in the progress of the trial ' does not include the general
finding of the Circuit Court, nor the conclusions of the Circuit
Couit embodied in such general finding." See also Town of
07io v. -Mfarcy, 18 Wall. 552; Insurance Co. v. Sea, 21 Wall.
158; Jennisons v. -Leonard, 21 Wall. 302; Tyng v. GrInnell,
92 U. S. 467; The Abbottsford, 98 U. S.440 ; Otoe County v.
Balwin, 111 U. S.1.
The proposition that the general finding of the court in this
-

VOL. cxn-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

ase is open to review is in direct opposition to the rulings of
the court in the cases cited. The plaintiff in error seeks to
make the question whether the evidence set out in the bill of
exceptions justified the finding by the court for the plaintiff of
the issue of fact raised by the pleadings. This is, in defiance
of the decision of this court that it cannot be done, an attempt
upon a general finding to bring up the whole testimony for
review by a bill of exceptions.
The theory of the plaintiff in error seems to be that the gen:
eral finding in this case, like a general verdict, includes questions of both law and fact, and that, by excepting to the
general finding, he excepts to such conclusions of law as the
general finding implies. But § 649 Revised Statutes provides
that the finding of the court, whether general or special, shall
have the same- effect as the verdict of a juroy. The general
verdict of a iury concludes mixed questions of law and fact,
except so far as they may be saved by some exception which
the party has taken to the ruling of the court upon a question
of law. Yor'ris v. ,Jackson, uvi &upa,. But the plaintiff in
error has taken no such exception. By excepting to the general finding of the court, it is in the same position as if it had
submitted its case to the jury, and, without any exceptions
taken during the course of the trial, bad, upon a return of the
general verdict for the plaintiff, embodied in a bill of exceptions all the evidence, and then excepted to the verdict because
the evidence did not support it.
The provision of the statute, that the finding of the court
shall have the same effect as the verdict of a jury, cuts off theright of review in this case. For the Seventh Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States declares that "no fact
tried by a jury shall be otherwise re-examined in any court of
the United States, than according to the rules of the common
law." The only methods known to the common law for the
re-examination of the facts found by a jury are, either by a
new trial granted by the court in which the issue had been
tried, or by thp award of a venre facias de novo by the appellate court for some error of law. Ingurance Co. v. Foleom, vu
supra. The court below having made a general finding, which

MARTINTON v. FAIRBANKS.
Opinion of the Court.

by the statute has the same effect as the verdict of a jury, the
plaintiff in error can resort to no other means of redress than
those open to it had the case been tried by a jury and-a general verdict rendered.
But the very question now under discussion was decided by
this court adversely to the views of the plaintiff in error in the
case of Coddington v. Richardson, 10 Wall. 516. In that case
a jury was waived under the act of March 3, 1865, by stipulation in writing, "and all just and legal objections and exceptions which might be made was reserved by each party." The
court found the issue for the plaintiff and assessed his damages
at $5,000. The defendant moved for a new trial, but his motion was overruled by the court, and judgment was entered on
the finding against the defendant. He took a bill of exceptions which set out all the evidence and showed that he excepted to the rulings of the court in finding the issue for the
plaintiff, in assessing the plaintiff's damages, in overruling the
motion for a new trial, and in rendering judgment. No exceptions were taken during the course of the trial. Upon this
state of the record this court said: "There is no question of
law arising upon the pleadings or the -tiial Those attempted
to be raised refer to the evidence, " embodied in the record,
but which, in a trial of the facts before the court, a jury being
waived, we do not look into. We look into them only when
found by the cotrt."
The statute under consideration could have no other reasonable construction. Prior to the enactment of the act of March
3, 1865, it was held by this court that "when the case is submitted to the judge to find the facts without the intervention
of a jury, he acts as a referee by consent of the parties, and no
bill of exceptions will lie to his reception or rejection of testimony, nor to his judgment on the law," Weer"s v. George, 13
How. -190; and that "no exception can be taken where there
is no jury and where the question of law is decided in delivering the final judgment of the court." United States v. ying,
7 How. 832, 853. See also Craig v. The State of xissouri,
4 Pet. 410, 427.
§ 4 of the act of March 3, 1865, was passed to allow the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

parties, where, a jury being waived, the cause was tried by the
court, a review of such rulings of the court in the progress of
the trial as were excepted to at the time, and duly presented
by bill of exceptions, and also a review of the judgment of the
court upon the question whether the facts specially found by
the court were sufficient to support its judgment. In other
respects the old law remained unchanged. In the present case
the bill of exceptions presents no ruling of the court made in
the progress of the trial, and there is no special finding of facts.
The general finding is conclusive of the issues of fact against
the plaintiff in error, and there is no question of law presented
by the record of which the court can take cognizance.
It follows that
The judgment of the Circuit Court must be affirmed; and it
is so ordered.
The cases, Tne Town of Sheldon v. C. T Day and The Town
of Sheldon v. T ZT .Fairbanks,both in error to the Circuit Court

of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois, are, in
all respects, similar to the case just decided.
Te judgments in these cases must, therefore, be affirmed; and
it is so ordered.

STREEPER & Another v. VICTOR SEWING MACHINE
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
Submitted December 15, 184.-Decided January 5,1865.

A written agreement between a company making sewing machines, and a consignee to receive and sell them on commission, provided that the commission
should be calculated on the retail prices for which the machines should be
sold, as reported by the consignee, and that attachments should be sold to
the consignee at the lowest wholesale rates. The proceeds of sales of machines, beyond the commission, belonged to the company. In a suit by it
against the consignee and a person liable with him, on a bond for his indebtedness, to recover such proceeds, and the sale price of attachments,
the complaint set forth schedules showing the retail price of each machine
sold, as so reported, and the excess of money, beyond commission, retained

