MACKALL v. RIOHARDS.
Statement of Facts.

not adopt it on full consideration. This must be my apology
for any apparent acquiescence in it heretofore. I am of opinion that reissued patents are entitled to the same consideration
as other patents issued by the government.
-. 0

MACKALL v. RICHARDS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Argued November 10, 1854.-Decided November 24, 1884.

When a mandate of this court, made after hearing and deciding an appeal in
equity, directed such further proceedings to be had in the court below as
would be consistent with right and justice, and that court thereafter made
a decree which prejudiced the substantial rights of a party to the suit, in
respect of matters not concluded by the mandate or by the original decree,
its action touching such matters is subject to review, upon a second appeal.

This suit involved the title to that part of square 223, in the
City of Washington, designated as lot 7, at the southwest
corner of New York Avenue and Fourteenth Street. Its building line on the avenue was about 152 feet and 9 inches in length,
and on Fourteenth Street a little less; while the south line,
which was at right angles with Fourteenth Street, was about
100 feet, and the west line, which'was at right angles with the
Avenue, was about 97 feet 5 inches, in length. In June or July,
1864, the lot was subdivided by Brooke Mackall, Jr., under
whose control it then was, into five smaller lots, each fronting
on New York Avenue. This subdivision was not recorded in
any public office, but a rough plat of it, exhibited in the record,
appears upon the books of Mr. Forsythe, a surveyor and civil
engineer, who made it at the instance of Mackall.
In the same year, shortly after this subdivision, Mackall
commenced the erection of a building at the southwest corner
of the Avenue and Fourteenth Street, known as Palace Market.
That building, he testified, was "to cover two of the sub-lots
on New York Avenue." In 1867, Plant and Emory, having
furnished materials and performed labor on the building, comVOL. cxii-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

menced suits at law, in the Supreme Court of this District, to
enforce liens for the amount of their claims, and each obtained
judgment therefor against Mackall. The part of lot 7, upon
Which Plant asserted a lien, was thus described in his declara4ion: "' Be g inning for the same at the northeast corner of the
said square, running thence south 44 feet; thence west to the
west line of the said lot; thence, in a northerly direction With
the west line thereof, to the north line of the said lot; and
thence, in a northeasterly direction with the said north line, to
the .place-of beginning." The description in Emory's suit was
in square No. 223, beginning for the same
this: "Part of lot '7,
at the northeast corner of said lot, and running thence south
44 feet; thence west to the west line of said lot; thence, with
a line at right angles to New York Avenue, to the north line of
said lot; and thence, in a northeasterly direction, with the said
north line, to the place of beginning."
Subsequently A. & T. A. Richards obtained judgment in the
same court against Mackall for $897.42, with interest and
costs, execution upon which was levied on the same property
on which Plant and Emory claimed to have liens. Under executions in favor of these several creditors the property was sold
by the marshal. Alfred Richards became the purchaser at
$2,500, and received a conveyance. The proceeds of the sale
were sufficient to discharge in full the claims of Plant and
Emory and $646.89 of the judgment obtained by A. & T. A.
Richards.
This suit was brought in 1871 by A. & T. A. Richards (a
part of whose judgment remained unpaid) and other judgment
creditors of Mackall, for the purpose of subjecting to the
claims of themselves and other creditors who might become
parties and share the expenses of the litigation, such part oi lot
7 as remained "after taking or carving out therefrom the
aforesaid piece or part thereof so as aforesaid taken, sold, and
conveyed by the marshal of the District of Columbia to Alfred
Richards," &c. The bill set forth that the title to the lot was
really in Mackall, but that, for the purpose of hindering and
defrauding his creditors, he withheld all evidence of it from
the public records of the District. The prayer was that he be

MACKALL v. RICHARDS.
Statement of Facts.

required to discover and place on record all conveyances or
other evidences of his title, and that the remainder- of lot 7,
not sold by the marshal to Richards, be sold, and the proceeds
applied, first to the discharge of existing encumbrances., and
then to the judgments of complainants.
Such proceedings were had that, by final decree in special
term, on the 1st day of May, 1873, it was adjudged that the
title "to all of lot numbered 7, in square numbered 223, in the
city of Washington, not heretofore sold by the marshal of the
District of Columbia, to the complainant Alfred Richards, is
vested in the defendant Brooke Mfackall, Jr., and that the same
be sold," &c. Trustees were designated by whom the sale
should be conducted. That decree was affirmed in general
term. Upon appeal to this court the decree in general term
was itself affirmed without modification, and -the, cause remanded for such proceedings as would be consistent with right
and justice. In this court, the only dispute was as to the sufficiency of the evidence to show title in Mlackall, and no question was made as to the indefiniteness of the description of the.
interest or property decreed to be sold, or as to the validity of
the marshal's sale.
Subsequently, the trustees named in the original decree executed the order of sale and made report 6f -their acts-; but,
upon exceptions filed, the sale was, on July 24, 1877, set aside,
the order providing that before sale can be made "the amount
to be sold must be definitely ascertained b some proper legal
procedure." The sale was set aside partly because it appeared,
upon the hearing of the exceptions, that the trustees announced
at the biddings that they did not know, and did not undertake to state, what were the precise lines or boundaries of the
ground to be sold, and would not undertake to do more than
sell such part of lot 7 as was outside of that embraced by the
marshal's deedto Alfred Richards, leaving purchasers to find
out as best they could the extent of their purchase. Bidders
were informed that "whether the south line of Richards' purchase runs southwesterly from the front or southeast corner of
the building along, the line of the fence,

.

.

.

parallel to

and 44 feet from New York Avenue, or whether it runs due

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argtument for Appellee.

west along the south side of the building to its rear end, and
from thence westerly to the rear end of the lot, is a legal question which the trustees do not undertake to determine."
By an order entered July 13, 1878, the cause was referred
to a special auditor to report "the proper metes and bounds of
that portion of lot No. 7, in square 223, which was sold by
the marshal of the District of Columbia to Alfred Richards,
and also that other portion of said lot not so sold, and which
is directed by the decree in this case to be sold by the present
trustees." He reported that, upon examining the testimony,
the proceedings in the mechanics' hen suits, the returns upon
the executions under which Richards had purchased, the advertisement of sale and the marshal's deed of conveyance, he
could not reach a conclusion as to how much ground was intended to be sold or conveyed to Richards.
Exceptions by the complainants to this report were sustained,
and the court, "proceeding to determine the said boundaries
in accordance with the said order of July 24, 1877," directed
the trustees- to sell, in accordance with the terms and provisions thereof, all that portion of lot seven lying south of a line
drawn from a point on Fourteenth Street 44 feet south of the
northeast corner of said lot, and running thence parallel with
New York Avenue to the west line of lot seven. This order
was made "without passing upon the validity of the said marshal's sale." A similar decree was passed in general term, accompanied by a recital that it should be construed "as not
determining any question of title to any portion of said lot 7
lying north of said. line." 1 Mackey, 444. The present appeal
was from the latter decree.
_fr. WF Willoughby, for appellant.
.1r.TF. B. Webb and .Mr. Enoch Totten, for appellee, argued
several questions presented by the record. On the point,
as to the extent of the questions open on appeal from the execution of a mandate of this court they said: This being a
second appeal, nothing is brought for re-examination except
proceedings subsequent to the mandate. 1te lady PAe, 96

MACKALL v. RICHARDS.
Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 461; Hmeley v. Rose, 5 Cranch, 313; Rolerts v. Cooper,

20 How. 467; Noonan v. Bradley, 12 Wall. 121. There can
be no question, that after a case has been heard and determined
in this court, and its mandate sent to the court from whence
the case came, the only duty of the court below is to carry the
decree and mandate into execution. From the earliest days of
the court this doctrine has been asserted. Skillern's E'xr v.
.Jfay's -E'r,6 Cranch, 267; Ex parte Story, 12 Pet. 339, 342;
SibbaU v.' United States, lb. 488, 492 ; Voonan v. Bradley,
suPra; The Lady Pike, supra.
Mr- JUSTICE HARL" delivered the opinion of the couit.
He stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
The action of the court below directing the sale of only so
much of lot 7 as lies south of a line running from a point 44
feet south of its northeast corner parallel with New York
Avenue tc the west line of the lot, leaving undetermined the
question of the title to that part of the lot lying north of that
parallel line, is subject to review, upon this second appeal, if,
as appellant contends, the proceedings subsequent to the decision here are erroneous and prejudical to his substantial rights
in respect of matters not concluded by the original decree.
His claim is that the natural and established front of lot 7 is
on New York Avenue, and that the sale of the piece south of
the said parallel line, separately from the ground north of it,
will materially, as well as needlessly, impair the value of both,
especially the former. We are of opinion that this claim is, in
all respects, well grounded; and that the appellant is entitled
to a reversal, unless it appears from the record that the ground
north of the said line running from Fourteenth Street parallel
with New York Avenue-which ground was, in effect., withdrawn from the operation of the original decree-was embraced by the sale of the marshal to Richards. Unless sold
heretofore by the marshal, it is covered by the original decree,
which this court affirmed.
The question as to what part of lot 7 was not sold by the
marshal to Richards is attended with difficulty and embarrass-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.
ment. But it is one which the court below was bound, under
the issues, to determine, in order that its decree of sale might
be properly executed. Upon examination of the marshal's
advertisement of the sale at which Richards purchased, and of
the deed which the latter received, we find no such description
of the property sold and conveyed as. will certainly embrace
that part of lot 7 which lies west and westerly of the building
erected at the cornr of New York Avenue and Fourteenth
Street, and north of the line described in the final order as
commencing from a poiht on Fo r.feenth Street 44 feet south
of the northeast corhr of said loi, and runming thence parallel
to. the line of -New York Avenue to the west lin of said lot.
The advertisement of sale thus describes that part of lot 7 then
proposed to be sold: "Beginning at the northeast corner of
said square [223] -and running thence south 44 feet; thence
west to the west end of the lot; thence, in a northerly direction with the yest line thereof, to the north lihie of said lot;
thence with said :north line to the place of beginning." The
descriptibn in, the marshal's deed to Richards is the same as
that in the advertisenfent of sale, except that, instead of the
words "thence west to'the west end of the lot," the call in the
deed is "thence westerly to the west end of the lot." The
line running south from the northeast corner of the lot along
Fourteenth Street is aptly described. But what is meant by the
words "west to the west end of the lot" in the advertisement
bf sale? If by "west end-of the lot" is meant its northwest
corner, where its west line meets New York Avenue, and if by
"west" is meant due west, then a line running due west from
Fourteenth Street will not strike the west end of the lot, but
will intersect New York avenue some distance northeast of the
northwest corner of the lot. Further: If" west to the west end
of the lot," means " westerly to the northwest corner of the lot,"
then there would be left outside of the ground upon which the
building stands, and north of the'line thus drawn, a narrow
irregular slip of ground, diminishing in width as the line runs
westerly, and which it cannot be supposed it was within the
contemplation of the marshal or of any of the parties interested to sell.

MACKALL v. RICHARDS.
Opinion of the Court.

But we do not suppose that by "west end of the lot" was
meant its northwest corner, where its west line meets New
York Avenue; because, the next call which appears in the
levies, in the advertisement of sale, and in the marshal's deed"thence in a northerly direction with the west line thereof to
the north line of said lot "-would then be meaningless. We
incline to think that by "west end of the lot" was meant
"west line of the lot." Such, as we have seen, is the call in
the mechanic's lien suits. This would make intelligible the
succeeding call, "thence in a northerly direction with the west
line thereof." But evun this interpretation does not dissipate
the confusion which arises from these inconsistent descriptions
of the property; for, if the line starting from Fourteenth
Street is run due west, it will not strike any point in the'west
line of the lot. And if it be run westerly, which may mean north
of west or south of west, to what point on the west line of the
lot must it be run ? The appellee contends that it should be
run parallel with New York Avenue. The answer to that sug.
gestion is that the descriptions in the lien suits, in the levies,
and in the marshal's advertisement and conveyance will
be satisfied-by running north or south of that parallel line to
any one of numerous points on the west side or line of the
lot.
We are here met with the suggestion that the sale was made
in discharge of certain mechanics' liens, and that the description of the property in the marshal's advertisement and deed
should be held to include all the ground which could have been
included under the laws in force in this District on the subject
of such liens. That law provides, in respect of a building in
the city of Washington or Georgetown, that "the ground on
which the same is erected, and a space of ground equal to the
front of the building and extending to the depth of the lot on
which it is erected, shall also be bound by the said lien," subject to the condition that the land, at the time of the erection
or repair of the building, is the property of the person contracting for such erection or repairs. IR. S. Dist.. Col. ยง 704, 11
Stat. 377.
The argument implies that the statute gave a mechanic's lien

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Coart

upon so much of the lot as would constitute a parallelogram
bounded on the east by the line of '44 feet on Fourteenth
Street, on the south by a line parallel with New York.Avenue,
on the west by the wedt line of the lot, and on the north by
"the'lineof New York Avenue. But the inherent difficulty in
this view arises from the description in tho marshal's advertisement'and in his deed for the property actually sold and conveyed. That description will not cover the ground included
in the supposed parallelogram. Further: if the front of the
building is coficeded to be on Fourteenth Street, the lot over
which the statute extended the mechanic's lien would not be
thie ground between New York Avenue and a line running
parallel with, and 44 feet from, it. In such case, the ground
covered by the lien would rather be that which lies north of a
line commencing 44 feet south of the northeast corner of the
lot, and extended at right angles from Fourteenth Street until
it strikes New York Avenue. But a conclusive answer to the
suggestion based upon the mechanic's lien law, is that, so far
as the record discloses, Plant and Emory did not, when enforcing their claims, assert a lien upon the ground within the
before-mentioned parallel6dgram.
We are of opinion, upon the whole case, that the record fails
to show that any part of lof 7;-outside of the piece upon which
the building at the northeast corner of the lot stands, was sold
or conveyed by the marshal to Richards; consequently, for the
purposes of this suit, and as between the parties thereto, all of
lot 7, except the part actually covered by the building, must
be deemed to be embraced by the original decree, and to be
subject to sale, as therein adjudged, in satisfaction of the demands of complainants.
Whether that part of the lot upon which the building stands
is still the property of Mackall, that is, whether the sale and
conveyance of the marshal is valid in respect, at least, of that
part of the lot, we do not determine. We forbear any expression of opinion upon that question, because it is evident that
the complainants did not seek, nor the court below intend, by
the original decree, to subject to sale the ground on which the
building stands; and, also, because the validity of the marshal's

CHICAGO & MILWAUKEE RAILROAD v. ROSS. 37
Statement of Facts.
sale is directly involved, as we are informed by counsel, in
distinct suit upon our docket, not yet reached.
The decree mudt be reversed, and the cause remanded, with
directions to the court below to set aside the decree from
which this appeal is prosecuted, and to order the sale, in
satisfaction of the complainants' demands, and in such
,mode as may be consistent with the practice of the court
and with law, qf lot 7 outside of the part upon which the
building known as the Palace .farket stands.

CHICAGO,

MILWAUKEE & ST. PAUL
COMPANY v. ROSS.

RAILWAY

IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
Argued April 14, 1834.-Decided December 8, 14.

A railroad corporation is responsible to its train servants and employ6s for
injuries received by them in consequence of neglect of duty by a train con-

ductor in charge of the train, with the right to command its movements,
and control the persons employed upon it.
A conductor of a railroad train, who has the right to command the movements
of the train and to control the persons employed upon it, represents the
company while performing those duties, and does not bear the relation of
fellow-servant to the engineer and other employ~s of the corporation on the
train.

This was an action brought by a locomotive engineer, in the
employ of the plaintiff in error, defendant below, to recover
damages for injuries received in a collision which was caused
by the negligence of the conductor of the traifi. The facts
and circunstances connected with the injury are set forth in
the opinion of the court. At the trial below, several questions
arose whose determination by the c'ourt below was assigned as
error and which were argued here. For the purposes of the
opinion it is only necessary to notice the two following portions of the charge to the jury, each of which was excepted
to:

