OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

in terms the affidavits found in the transcript as the foundation of the order which was made.
Neither is the opinion of the court a part of the record. Our
Rule 8, sec. 2, requires a copy of any opinion that is filed in a
cause to be annexed to and transmitted with the record, on a
writ of error or an appeal to this court, but that of itself does
not make it a part of the record below.
Tw order to remand is afflmed.

NhEW ORLEANS INSURANCE COMPANY v. ALBRO
COMPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FiOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
S abmitted November 17, 18S.-Decided December 8, M84.

It is within the discretion of a Circuit Court to take an appeal bond in which
each surety is severally bound for only a specified part of the obligation.
The omission in an appeal bond, to mention the term at which the judgment
was rendered, is not fatal; but may be cured.
A defence to a suit on a policy against perils of the sea and barratry; that the
sale of the cargo after loss of the vessel was made with a want of diligence
which the evidence in the case showed was equivalent to barratry, Held,
To be frivolous.

This was a motion to dismiss, with which a motion to affirm
was combined under the rule. The grounds for both branches
of the motion are fully stated in the opinion of the court.
21r. C07arles E. Schmidt for plaintiff in error.

.X,r. 0. B. Sane&u

for defendant in error.

WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
The motion to dismiss is put on the ground that the security
bond is defective, 1, because tie sureties are not jointly or
severally bound for the full amount of the obligation, but each

Mr. CirEF JUsTIcE

NEW ORLEANS INSURANCE CO. v. ALBRO 00. 507
Opinion of the Court.
severally for a specified part only, and, 2, because the judgment brought'under review by the writ of error is not described
with sufficient certainty.
The bond is certainly unusual in form, but we cannot say
that it is not within the legal discretion of a justice or judge,
under some circumstances, to take it. Cases may arise in which
it will be impossible to obtain security if this mode is not
adopted. It being within the discretion of the judge to accept
such a bond as security, his action in that particular is final,
and, under the rule laid down in Jerome v. Me6arter,21 Wall.
17, not reviewable here.
In the nfatter of the description of the judgment the bond is
in the form which has been much in use, except that it omits
the term at which the judgment was rendered. The better
practice undoubtedly is to specify the term in describing the
judgment, but the omission of such a means of identification is
not necessarily fatal, and certainly, before dismissing a case
on that account, opportunity should ,be given to furnish new

security.
It is apparent from the record that the writ of error must
have been sued out for delay only. The suit was upon a policy
issued by the Insurance Company to the Albro Company for
the insurance of a cargo of mahogany and cedar wood on board
the bark Commodore Dupont, against the perils of the sea
and the barratry of the master of the bark at and from the
port of Santa Anna, Mexico, to the port of New Orleans. The
bark -was driven on the bar at Santa Anna and wrecked in a
severe gale while loading, and her cargo was cast on the sea
and driven ashore. While in this condition the cargo was sold,
and the proceeds, which were but small, after deducting
charges and expenses, paid over by the master to the Albro
Company. In the petition the loss of the vessel and her cargo
is averred, and also the sale of the cargo under the ordels of
the port authorities at Santa Anna. In the answer the loss of
the vessel was admitted, but it was insisted, by way of defence,
that due diligence was not used by the master in saving the'
cargo and forwarding it to its place of destination as the policy
required. Upon the trial "the plaintiffs introduced evidence

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

tending to show that the sale of the insured cargo by the master was made under such circumstances as constituted a necessity for making the saiae, and rendered the act of the master
'in making the same the act of the defendants, in that, under
the law of insurance, the authority therefor would be implied.
The defendants .introduced evidence tending to-establish the
absence of those circumstances which so gave authority to the
master to make such sale, and tending to show the failure on
his part to seasonably communicate with the owners and underwriters; and the same evidence, introduced by the defendants, besides being applicable to the two issues, as stated above,
tefided further to establish that the act of the master in making
.the said sale of the insured cargo was an act of barratry, in
that it was made, and especially-was made, in time and manner, knowingly contrary to his best judgment and to the injury
of whomsoever it might concern; and all the evidence tending
to establish a barratrous sale came from the defendant.
"The court instructed the jury that, under the pleadings, the
evidenc6 which had been adduced before them in the cause
authorized them to inquire and find"1st. Whether the sale of the master was made under such
circumstances as, according to the principles or rules in'the
law of marine insurance (which were stated to the jury), made
the act of sale on the part of the master the act of the underwriters, and that if- upon this question they found for the
plaintiff, .then the defendant's liability was established.
" dly. The court instructed the jury that if they found
that, according to the principles and rules of marine insurance
(which had been stated to them), the act of sale on the part of
the master was not the act of the underwriters, but they
found that, while he had exceeded his authority he had acted
in good faith, then the defendant was discharged from all liability.
"3dly. The court further instructed the jury that if they
found that, according to the rules and principles of marine insurance (which had been explained to them), the act of sale by
the master was not the act of the underwriters, the defendants,
still, if they found that such sale was barratrously made, i. e.,

NEW ORLEANS INSURANCE CO. v. ALBRO CO. 509
Opinion of the Court.
was an act of barratry, which was defined to them by the
court, then also the liability of the defendant was established.
'KNo exception was taken by the counsel for the defendant
to the rules or principles of law by which the court, in its instructions, had stated they must determine the question of implied authority from the defendant on the part of the master
to make the sale, nor to the test by which the jury was to determine whether an act of barratry had been committed.
"1Butthe counsel for the defendant, before the jury retired
to deliberate upon tieir verdict, reserved an exception to that
part of the charge of the court alone by which the court submitted the question of barratry or no barratry to the jury, in
the instruction numbered 3d."
We are unable to discover even the semblance of an error
in the part of the charge excepted to.. The petition presented
distinctly the question of the liability of the insurance company, under its policy, for ihe loss of the cargo which had
been stranded by a peril of the sea and sold by the master of
the vessel. The defence was in effect, that the cargo ought to
have been gathered up after the stranding and forwarded to
the place of destination. Upon the issue thus raised by their
pleadings the parties went to trial, and testimony was submitted to the jury on both sides. That of the insurance company tended to show not only that the sale was not justified
by the circumstances, but that in making the sale the master
was guilty of barratry.. The court told the jury, in substance,
that if the master, acting in 'good faith, sold the cargo when
he ought not to have done so, the insurance company would
not be bound by his sale; but, "if the sale was barratrously
made, i. e., was an act of barratry," the company must make
good the loss-and this clearly because it had insured against
the barratry of the master as well as the perils of the sea. It
is true that the parties did not, in their pleadings, rely upon the
barratry either as a ground of action or of defence, but the
insured did sue for the loss occasioned by the perils of the sea
and the sale by the master, and the insurance company, in attempting to prove that the sale was not justifiable under the
circumstances, gave evidence tending to prove that it was bar-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

ratrously made. It was upon this evidence coming from the
insurance company that the court told the jury that the barratry of the master would not relieve the company from its liability in this action for he loss which followed from the stranding by a peril of the sea, and the subsequent barratrous sale.
Certainly we are not called upon to retain a case on our docket
for argument upon such a question.
There was sufficient color of right to a dismissal to make it
proper for us to entertain a motion to affirm with the motion
to dismiss.
The motion to dismiss is denied, but that to affirm is
granted.

UNITED STATES v. IORTHI.
UNITED STATES v. EMORY.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Submitted November 20, I&M4.-Decided December 8,18S4.

Officers of the army and officers of the navy, engaged in the service of the
United States in the war with INexico, and who served out the time iftheir
engagement, are, since the act of February 19,1879, 20 Stat. 316, entitled to
the three months' extra pay allowed under the act of July 19,1843, 9 Stat. 248.
The extra pay which such officers are entitled to receive is to be computed at
the rate which they were entitled to receive at the time when they were discharged or ordered away.
Officers in the regular army or navy engaged in the military service of the
United States in the war with M1exico, "served out the term of their
engagements," or were "honorably discharged" within the meaning of
the act of 14, when the war was over. or when they were ordered or
mustered out of that service.

These suits were brought in the Court of Claims.
James I. North was an officer in the navy of the United
States from May 29, 1829, to January 14, 1861, when he resigned. He served in the war with Mexico, as lieutenant, on

