OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

HORBACH v. HILL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT Or THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF iEBRASKA.
Argued October 23, 1884.-Decided November 3,1884.

*Whether an agreement for a reconveyance of real estate, conveyed by deed in
fee simple, on the repayment of the purchase money and the performance
of other conditions, is a mortgage, is to be determined by the accompanying
circumstances which explain the object of the agreement.
A creditor of a grantor of real estate, attacking the conveyance as made to defraud creditors, should show affirmatively that he Was a creditor of the
grantor when the alleged fraudulent conveyance was made.

This is a suit to set aside a sale of certain real property in
Omaha, Nebraska, to John A. Horbach, the defendant in the
court below, the appellant here, by one John A. Parker, Senior,
on the ground that it was made to hinder, delay, and defraud
the 'latter's creditors, of whom the complainant claims to be one.
The material facts, briefly stated, are as follows: InMarch,
1871, one John A. Parker, Jr., died at Omaha, intestate, possessed of certain unimproved real property in that city. He
'also held a deed of seventeen other lots there, which he had
purchased of his father in September, 1870. At the time of
the purchase he executed to his father an agTeement stating
that on a final accounting of all business between them, including the purchase of the seventeen lots, he found himself indebted to his father in $8,734, to be paid to him, or to certain
creditors to be named, within one year, and agreeing, in case
he should be relieved from two certain bonds of $3,000 and upwards, to reconvey the lots to his father for a like consideration, and the expenses incurred on them, the amount to be
credited on his indebtedness. He left, at his death, no personal
estate of any value, and his debts were considerable, among
others one of over $1,000 to Horbach. His father, who
was his sole heir-at-law and his largest creditor, resided in
Virginia, and upon his son's death went to Omaha to attend his
funeral. Whilst there, on the 20th of March, 1871, he sold his
interest in the estate of his son, and his interest under the

HORBACH v. HILL.
bliatement of Facts.

agreement to reconvey the seventeen lots, to Horbach for $6,000,
and executed to him a deed of the lots standing in the name of
the deceased, and assigned to him the agreement. He also sold
and assigned to him the claim against the estate mentioned in
the agreement, Horbach agreeing for the claim to pay the
debts in Omaha due to himself and others, amounting to a sum
not exceeding $2,200.
In May, 1871, Horbach, as a creditor of the estate of -the deceased, was appointed it-s administrator and qualified. There
being no personal effects with which to pay the debts, the real
property of the deceased, including the seventeen lots, was
sold at auction under orders of the proper court, and was purchased by different parties, one of whom named Kennedy
bought the seventeen lots. The sales were reported to thecourt and confirmed. The proceeds were applied in due course
of administration; and in November, 1874, the administrator
was exonerated by the court from liability and his bond cancelled. Subsequently Horbach purchased at advanced prices
portions of the property thus sold, among others fifteen of the
seventeen lots.
In December, 1877, Edward B. Hill, the complainant in this
suit, recovered in the District Court of Nebraska a judgment
by default against John A. Parker, Sr., for $3,244 and costs,
purporting to be owing upon the promissory note described in
the petition of the plaintiff. This petition is not in the record,
and therefore it does not appear whether Parker was liable as
maker or as indorser, or when the note was made or when it
matured. There was no personal service of process upon him,
nor did he enter his appearance in the case; the service was by
publication. The judgment, reciting that it appearing to the
court that the attachment proceedings therein were regular and
in conformity to law, ordered the sheriff to sell the real estate
attached. What that real estate was does not appear, and that
it included the seventeen lots, can only be inferred from the fact
that under the judgment and order they were sold with other
real property and conveyed to the complainant. In August,
1878, this suit was brought by him, claiming title to the premises thus purchased, and alleging that the conveyance to HorVOL. cxU-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Appella.

bach by John A. Parker, Sr., in.March, 1871, was made to hinder, delay, and defraud the latter's creditors; that the administration was taken under an agreement to manage and manipulate the estate for his benefit, and that the sales by the administrator were without consideration and fictitious, being in fact
made for himself. It therefore prayed that the conveyance by
Parker, Sr., to Horbach be adjudged void, and that the complainant be decreed to be the owner in fee of the property.
The averments were traversed by the answer, which also set
up the agreement to reconvey the seventeen lots. A replication being filed, testimony was taken. The case was then referred to a master "to report on the law and facts as shown by
the pleadings and proofs." He held and reported that, except
as to the seventeen lots, the purchases at the administrator's
sale were valid; that, as to them, the complainant cquired title
under his attachment proceedings; that the deceased, as to
them, was mortgagee; that the deed of Parker, Sr., to Horbach was made when he was largely in debt to the complainant
and others, and for the purpose of hindering, delaying, and defrauding his creditors, and that Horbach knew this; that the
purchase of those lots by Kennedy at the administrator's sale
was in -good faith, but with notice that the title of the deceased
was that of mortgagee only, and that hence no title was acquired; and that no title pased through Kennedy to Horbach
because of like notice, and therefore the complainant was entitled to a decree to quiet his title. Exceptions were taken to
the report, but they were overruled, and it was confirmed and
a decree entered adjudging that the seventeen lots were, at the
commencement of the suit, the property of the complainant,
and directing the defendant to convey the same to him, and, in
default thereof, that the decree should stand in lieu of such conveyance, and that the defendant should be barred of all interest
in the property, and deliver possession thereof to the complainant. From this decree this appeal is brought.
.21!>. Waiter D. Davidge for appellant.-I. This is a bill to
quiet title, not a creditor's bill. The decree is for conveyance
and possession, not for sale. And though the remedy by bill

HORBACH v. HILL.
Argument for Appellant.

to quiet title has been enlarged by statute in Nebraska, roTlland v. Callen, 110 U. S. 16, yet it is there held that complainant must show title, and a party not in possession must
possess the legal title in order to maintain the action. State v.
Sioux City & Pafeie Railroad, 7 Neb. 357.-I1. The bill being for actual fraud, the complainant was not entitled to a decree, even if he had averred and proved facts which, independently of actual fraud, might have entitled him to relief under
some other head of equity. Eyre v. Potter, 15 How'. 42, 56;
.foore-v. Green, 19 How. 69; Peice v. Bawrington, 3 Kacn. &
Gord. 486. And the bill could not be amended. SMelds v.
Barrow, 17 How. 130.-III. The record discloses nothing to
show that appellee was an existing creditor, nor what was the
financial condition of the grantor. It should have done so.
Sexton v. Wteaton, 8 Wheat. 229; Jlattigly v. ye, 8 Wafll.
370; Smith v. Vodges, 92 U.S. 183.-T. The conveyance to
the decedent was absolute. The agreement to reconvey was
not necessarily a mortgage. Conway v. Alexander, 7 Cranch,
218, 236 ; Russell v. Sauthard,12 How. 139. :J sale under a
judgment in attachment in Nebraska would not pass a mere
personal contract relating to lands. General Stat. Neb. 1873,
§§ 198, 228. Such a sale would not even convey a trust by
operation of law. Tras, v. Green, 9 Mich. 358.-7. Assuming
the seventeen lots were attached and sold as alleged, yet as the
only jurisdiction acquired by the State court was by publication, the purchaser only succeeded to the legal or equitable
title of the debtor. The purchaser, in such case, could only
claim through the debtor, and not adversely or by paramount
title; and the necessary predicate of overreaching and annulling the previous conveyance would not exist. Such conveyance,
binding upon parties and privies, would be equally binding
upon such a purchaser. If he could move at all to set aside the
conveyance, he could only move'as a creditor, and the judgment
in attachment would be no evidence of debt. The judgment
and sale in attachment would not enable the purchaser to maintain the present suit. Pennoyer v. jWeff, 95 U. S. 714, and cases
reviewed, artv. sansom, 110 U. S. 151.
No appearance for appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1S84.
Opinion of the Court.

Mn.

JUSTI E FELD

delivered the opinion of the court. Fle

stated the facts in the foregoing language and continued:
There are several fatal objections to the decree in this case.
In the first place, there is no evidence affecting the good faith
of the sale and conveyance from Paiker, Senior, to the defendant, in March, 1871. It was known that the deceased owed
several debts, and as there were no personal effects, that the
real property was liable to be sold for their payment. Under
these circumstances, the price paid by the defendant is not
shown to be inadequate. And there is no evidence that he
had any knowledge of the debt of Parker, Senior, to the complainant. So, whatever may be suggested or surmised as to
possible fraudulent intentions of Parker, Senior, in the conveyance, its validity cannot be questioned in the absence of any
evidence of participation in them by the defendant. The fraud
which will vitiate a, sale must be mutual, that is, must be intended by both parties, or by one with knowledge of the other's
purpose, and thus acquiesced in and furthered. Here all such
participation was wanting on the part of the purchaser.
In the second place, if the conveyance by the father to the
defendant be treated as invalid, the title to the lots passed by
the administrator's sale, and the subsequent deed in pursuance
of it. The master found that the purchase by Kennedy at that
sale was in good faith, but was void because of his knowledge
that the property wasaheld by the deceased as mortgagee, and
that the defendant acquired no title from Kennedy because of
like notice. But the conclusion that the conveyance by the
father to the son was a mortgage was a mere assumption, not
warranted by the accompanying agreement. There was no
obligation resting on the father to make the payments mentioned in that agreement and claim a reconveyance. He had
an option to do so, and thbn he was not merely to repay the
consideration given by the son, but in addition thereto he was
to obtain a release of two bonds by him exceeding $3,000 in
amount. Upon such release the vendee agreed to reconvey
the lots for the original consideration and thb expenses incurred
on them. There were no extraneous facts shown to explain the
object of executing the papers, such as a previous indebtedness

HORBACH v. HILL.
Opinion of the Court.

of the father, or a liability on his part to secure the son against
the bonds mentioned. Nor did it appear to whom the bonds
were issued, nor for what consideration. Nor was it averred
that the transaction was in any respect different from what the.
instruments imported-a sale to the son. The agreement can
therefore be considered only as an independent contract to
reconvey the lots on certain.conditions. The assumption that
the conveyance of the father to the son was a mortgage being
unfounded, the objection to the purchase by Kennedy falls.
That being valid, the deed received by him passed a good title,
which he transferred to the defendant.
In the third place, there is no evidence that the complainant
was a creditor of Parker, Senior, in Mfarch, 1871, when the conveyance was made to the defendant. The attachment suit was
commenced by publication in August, 1871 and in December following judgment by default was rendered. This was
more than six years after the cofiveyance. It does not appear
when the alleged debt, upon which the attachment proceedings
were founded, accrued. The allegation of the bill that Parker,
Senior, was largely indebted to the complainant and others; and
was insolvent when he conveyed to the defendant, is not sustained by the evidence. Indeed, there is no evidence in relation
to his financial condition and means at that time. The testimony that he brought a summons in another suit against him
to the office of the paity who was then drawing the deed is
contradicted; and even had this been so, the fact would not
militate against the validity of the transaction. He had a right
to dispose of his property in the ordinary course of business for
a valuable consideration, and the defendant had a right to
purchase it. The complainant, not showing that he was at the
time a creditor, cannot complain. Even a voluntary conveyance is good as against subsequent creditors, unless executed as
a cover for future schemes of fraud.
So, in any way in which this ease can be considered, the bill
cannot be sustained.
The decree must therfore. be reversed, and the ease remanded,
with directions to dismiss the bill. And it is so o'rde'red.

