MEMPHIS RAILROAD CO. v. COMMISSIONERS. 609
Syllabus.

far as it touches the sufficiency of the declaration to support
the judgment, is fairly presented for the determination of this
court, within the rule laid down by Chief Justice Taney in
Campbell v. Boyreau, and by Mr. Justice Nelson in Planders
v. Tweed, as already stated.
But, by the law applicable to this case, the objection cannot
be sustained. By the common law, indeed, a general verdict
and judgment upon several counts in a civil action must be reversed on writ of error if only one of the counts was bad. But
Lord Mansfield "exceedhigly lamented that ever so inconvenient and ill founded a rule should have been established," and
added, "what makes this rule appear more absurd is that it
does not hold in the case of criminal prosecutions." Grant v.
.Astle,2 Doug. 722, 730; Snyder v. United States, ante, 216.
In Illinois it has been changed by statute, providing that "whenever an entire verdict shall be given on several counts, the
same shall not be set aside or reversed on the ground of any
defective count, if one or more of the counts in the declaration
shall be sufficient to sustain the verdict. Illinois Rev. Stat.
1874,ch. 110, § 58. That statute governs proceedings in cases
Rev. Stat.
tried in the Federal courts within that State.
§ 914; Townsend v. Jemison, 7 How. 706, 722; Sawin v. Kenny,
93 U. S. 289. And the rule thereby established must be applied to judgments lawfully rendered without a verdict. As
the common counts in this declaration are indisputably good,
the sufficiency of the special counts need not be considered.
Judgment affirmefZ.

MEMPPIS

& LITTLE ROCK RAILROAD COMPANY
v. RAILROAD COMMISSIONERS.

IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKASAS.
Submitted November 25, 18S4.-Decided December 22, 1S84.

A statute exempting a corporation from taxation confers the privilege only on
the corporation specially referred to, and the right will not pass to its successor unless the intent of the statute to that effect is clear and express.
voL. cxn--39

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.
.organv. Louisiana, 93 U. S. 217; Wilson,v. Gaines, 103 U. S. 417; and
Louisville & .Nashville .Railroad Company v. Palmes, 109 U. S. 244, affirmed.
The franchise to be a corporation is not a subject of sale and transfer, unless
made so by a statute, which provides a mode for exercising it.
A franchise to be a corporation is distinct from a franchise, as a corporation, to
maintain and operate a railway: the latter may be mortgaged, without the
former, and may pass to a purchaser at a foreclosure sale.
A nortgage of the charter of a corporation, made in the exercise of a power
given by statute, confers no right upon purchasers at a foreclosure sale
to exist as the same corporation : if it confers any right of corporate existence upon them, it is only a right to reorganize as a corporation, subjectto
laws, constitutional and otherwise, existing at the time of the reorganization.

This ,was a bill in equity filed in the Chancery Court of Pulaski County, Arkansas, seeking to enjoin the Board of Railroad Commissioners of the State from appraising, for the purposes of taxation, any part of the property of the plaintiff in
error, on the ground that it is exempted from taxation by a
contract with the State contained in its charter of incorporation. The Supreme Court of the State, on appeal, affirmed the
decree of the Chancery Court dismissing the bill. That decree
of the Supreme Court was brought here by writ of error, for
review, on the allegation that it enforced a law of the State impairing the obligation of a contract in violation of the rights
of the plaintiff in error under the Constitution of the United
States.
The question arises and is to be determined upon the following case:
The M,emphis and Little Rock Railroad Company was chartered by an act of the General Assembly of the State of Arkansas, approved January 11, 1853. This act authorized the
formation of a company to be a body corporate for the purpose
of establishing communication by a railroad between the city
of Memphis in Tennessee and Little Rock in Arkansas, and
commissioners were named therein to open books for subscriptions to its capital stock. This was fixed for the purpose of
organization at $400,000, to be increased to $2,000,000 at the
pleasure of the company. When the necessary amount of capital stock had been subscribed, the subscribers were authorized

M1EMPHIS RAILROAD CO. v. COMMISSIONERS. 611
Statement of Facfs.

to organize by the election of a board of directors. The 9th
section of the act is as follows:
"SEc. 9. The said company may at any time increase its
capital to a sum sufficient to complete the said road, and stock
it with anything necessary to give it full operation and effect,
either by opening books for new stock or by selling such new
stock, or by borrowing money on the credit of the company,
and on the mortgage of its charter and wcerks; and the manner in which the, same shall be done, in either case, shall be
prescribed by the stockholders at a general meeting," &c.
Laws of Arkansas, 1852-3, 132-3.
V6 also contains the following:
"SEc. 28. The capital stock of said company shall be exempt
fron taxatioi until the road pays a dividend of six per cent.,
and the road, with all its fixtures and appurtenances, including
workshops, warehouses and vehicles of transportation, shall be
exempt from taxation for the period of twenty years from and
after the completion of said road." Tb. 136.
The company was organized under this act, and afterwards,
in order to borrow money for the prosecution of the enterprise,
issued its bonds to the amount $1,300,000, dated May 1, 1860,
having thirty years to run, with interest at eight per cent. per
annum, and, to secure the paym-nent of the same, executed and
delivered a mortgage to Tate, Brinkley nd -Watkins, as trustees for the bondholders, whereby it conveyed to them, in
trust, the Memphis and Little Rock Railroad, its road-bed, right
of way, and all works and rolling stock of or belonging to the
company, "together with the charter by which said company
was incorporated and under which it is organized, and all the
rights and privileges and franchises thereof," and also all the
lands, &c., belonging to said company.
Subject thereto, a second mortgage was made by the company on March 1, 1871, conveying all its property and franchises to Henry F. Vail, in trust for the holders of bonds
secured thereby, amounting to $1,000,000. Default having
been made by the company in the payment of interest on this
loan, Vail, the trustee, in execution of the power conferred in
the mortgage, sold and conveyed the mortgaged property, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

title to which became vested in Stillman Witt and his associate
bondholders, who organized the Memphis and Little Rock Railway Company, to which, on November 17, 1873, the said property was conveyed. This railway company, on December 1,
1873, issued its bonds to the amount of $2,600,000, and, to secure the same, by a deed of that date, conveyed all the franchises, privileges and property so acquired by it to trustees, of
whom Pierson, Matthews and Dow became successors, in trust
for the bondholders. The Memphis and Little Rock Railroad
Company, the original corporation, made default in the payment of interest accruing upon the bonds secured by the mortgage of May 1, 1860, and its successor, the Memphis, and Little
Rock, Railway Company also made default in the payment of
interest maturing on the bonds secured by the deed of Decem
ber 1, 1873. Afterwards, on November 12,1876, a bill in chan
cery was filed, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Arkansas, by the trustees against the two
companies, to foreclose those mortgages, in which suit a final
decree was rendered ordering a sale of the property described'
in the same, embracing the property and franchises of the said
companies, and the charter of the Memphis and Little Rock
Railroad Company; and a sale thereof was made and confirmed, and a conveyance of the same executed to Pierson,
Matthews and Dow, in trust for the holders of the bonds of
the Memphis and Little Rock Railway Company, secured by the
deed of trust executed by that company. OnApril 28, 1877,
the holders of these bonds executed certain articles of association, by which, after reciting the premises, they organized
themselves into a company, claiming to become a corporation,
under-the name of -'The Memphis and Little Rock Railroad
Company as re-organized," under and by virtue of the provisions of the act of January 11, 1853, for the incorporation of the
original company; and afterwards, on April 30, 1877, Pierson,
Matthews and Dow conveyed to said company the property
and franchises, including the charter of January 11, 1853; and
thereupon the bill proceeds :
"Complainant submits that, having thus duly purchased said
charter of the Memphis and Little Rock Railroad Company

MEMIPHIS RAILROAD CO. v. COMMISSIONERS. 613
Statement of Facts.
under the power therein contained, and having organized thereunder, it is the owner and holder thereof, and that it has and
is entitled to all the privileges and benefits in said act of the
General Assembly mentioned and set forth, among others to
the contract contained in said section 28, by which the road,
with all the franchises and appurtenances, including workshops, warehouses, and vehicles of transportation, shall be exempt from taxation for the period of twenty years from and
after the date of the completion of said road. Complainant
further states that said road was not completed till the 15th
day of November, 1874, and that the time of the exemption
thereafter from taxation has not expired. It further states
that the defendant herein first mentioned, acting as a Board
of Railroad Commissioners for this State, have demanded from.
the complainant a detailed inventory of all. the rolling stock
belonging to the company, and the valuation thereof, as provided in section 48 of an act of the General Assembly of the
State of Arkansas, approved March 31, 1883, entitled ' An Act
to revise and amend the revenue laws of the State of Arkansas,' and have also demanded from the complainant a statement or schedule showing the length of the main and all the
side tracks, switches and turn-outs in each county in which the
road is located, and the value of all improvements, stations and
structures, including the railroad track, as provided in section
46 of the same act.
"Complainant being willing, so far as it may without injury
to itself, to comply with the laws of thi said State, has, in
compliance with the demand made upon it, made and returned
said schedule to the said board, accompanying the same with a
protest against any of the property in said schedule contained
being assessed for taxation, in which protest complainant stated
the grounds upon which said property was exempt from taxation.
"Complainant states and submits that all this property contained in the said schedules, [copies] of wv'hich it herewith files,
marked ' I ' and ' J,' and all the property described in said sections 46 and 48 of said act, are the identical property which is
exempt from taxation by the contract in said charter contained."

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

On December 9, 1874, an act was passed by the General Assembly of Arkansks, whereby the purchasers of a railroad of
any corporatidi- of the State, and their associates, acquiring
title 'thereto by virtue of a judicial sale, or of a sale under a
power contained in a mortgage or deed of trust, were authorized to organize themselves into a body corporate, vested with
all the corporate rights, liberties, privileges, immunities, powers
and franchises of and concerning the railroad so sold, not in
conflict with the provisions of the Constitution of the State,
as fully as the same were held, exercised and enjoyed by the
corporation before such sale. A certificate of such organization
was required to be fied in the office of the Secretary of State
within six months, specifying certain particulars. Laws of
Arkansas, 1874-5, p. 57. Prior to the passage of that act
there seems to have been no statute authorizing the formation
of such corporations, or prescribing a mode for their organization.
In 1853, when the Memphis and Little Rock Railroad Company was chartered and organized as a corporation, the Constitution of Arkansas then in force permitted the enactment
of spedial acts of incorporation, and without any restriction
upon the power to exempt corporations and their property
from taxation. In 1868 a new Constitution was adopted by
the people of the State, which provided (art. 5, see. 48), that,
k'the General Assembly shall pass no special act conferring
corporate powers. Corporations may be formed under general
laws; but all such laws may, from time to time, be altered or
repealed.

-

.

.

The property of corporations, now ex-

isting or hereafter created, shall forever be subject to taxation
the same as the property of individuals;" and in art. 10, see.
2, that, "laws shall be passed taxing by a uniform rate all
moieys, credits, inyestment in bonds, joint stock companies, or
otherwise; and also all real and personal property, according
to its trude value. in money'."
It was decided by the Supreme Court of Arkansas in the
case of Oiver v. fempAis and Little Rock Railroad Co., 30
Ark. 128, that the 28th section of the act of January 11, 1853,
ilcor.orating that company, already quoted, was a contract be-

MEMPHIS RAILROAD CO. v. COMMISSIONERS. 615
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

tween it and the State, which could not be impaired by these
provisions of the State Constitution, because it was protected
by the Constitution of the United States.
On October 13, 1874, the present Constitution of Arkansas
was adopted and took effect. Among its provisions are these:
That the General Assembly shAll pass no special act conferring
,;orporate powers (art. 12, see. 2); that corporations may be
formed under general laws, which laws may, from time to time,
be altered or repealed (art. 12, sec. 6); that all property subject to taxation shall be taxed according to its value; that the
following property shall be exempt from taxation: public
property used exclusively for public purposes, churches used as
such, cemeteries used exclusively as such, school buildings and
apparatus, libraries and grounds used 'exclusively for school
purposes, and buildings and grounds and materials used exclusively for public charity (art. 16, see. 5); that all laws exempting property from taxation, other than as above provided,
shall be void (art. 16, sec. 6) ; that the power to tax corporations and corporate property shall not be surrendered or suspended by any contract or grant to which the State may be a
party (art. 16, sec. 7); and that the General Assembly shall
not remit the forfeiture of the charter of any corporation then
exigting, or alter or amend the same, or pass any general or
special law for the benefit of such corporation, except upon
condition that such corporation should thereafter hold its charter subject to the provisions of the Constitution (art. 17, sec. 8).
It was in April, 1877, that the plaintiff in error was organized
as a corporation deriving its authority for that purpose, as it
claimed, under the special act of January 11, 1853. On behalf
of the defendant in error, it is claimed that the plaintiff in
error had no power to organize as a corporation, except as enabled by the act of December 9, 1874.

7ib'. B. C.Brown for plaintiff in error.-Under the statutes of
Arkansas the pleadings amount to an admission that the original charter contained an exemption from taxation, that there
was authority to mortgage that charter, that it was mortgaged,
that the mortgage was foreclosed, and that the mortgaged

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

charter was acquired by the plaintiff in error under the foreclosure sale. We admit that a corporation takes only so much
as is granted in °express words, or by fair implication; that on
exemption from taxation is not to be presumed; that the party
claiming the exemption must show his right. But there is another proposition-which the court overlooked-that a status
or right shown to have been once established or existing is presumed to continue, and it is for him who alleges that it has
ended or changed to show when and how the end or change
occurred. It is conceded that the property held by plaintiff and
now sought to be taxed was at one time exempt. This was established by the Supreme Court of the State itself, in The &ate
v. Oliver, 30 Ark. 129. Before this cause was'instituted, both
the Supreme Court of Arkansas and this court had held that
"a State can no more impair the obligation of a contract by
adopting a Constitution than by passing a law." Jacoway,
v. Denton, 25 Ark. 625; TM7dte v. Hart,13 Wall. 646. The
contract here was that the company created by the act of
Not mortgage the
1 8 5g might "mortgage its charter."
to
build and operate a
the
"right
Not
mortgage
"franchise."
railroad." -Not mortgage the "exemption from taxation," but
mortgage the charter. The words "charter," and "act of incorporation" are used "convertibly," and mean the same thing.
HMumphrey v. Pegues, 16 Wall. 244. The grant of a. power
grants everything necessary to give it beneficial effect; United
States v. Fisher, 2 Cranch, 358 ;fecOulloch v. .3fawyland, 4
Wheat. 316, 428; Fletcher v. Oliver, 5 Ark. 289, 299; T. T.
Fertilizing Co. v. Hyde Park, 70 Ill. 634. The power to
pledge the franchises and rights of a corporation implies, as
incident thereto, the power to pledge everything that may be
necessary to the enjoyment of the franchise, and upon which
its real value depends. Phillipsv. Winslow, 18 3. Mfon. 431.
Either the whole charter passed or nothing. There is no middle ground. The exemption from taxation was not separable
from the body of the charter. This court has held that, with
legislative permission, any privilege or immunity may pass.
Hum2hrey v. Pegues, cited above; Tomlihmon v. Branch, 15
Wall. 460. Pacift Railroad Co. v. .XcGzire,20 Wall. 36. In

MEMPHIS RAILROAD -C0. v. COMMISSIONERS.'617
Opinion of the Court.

the cases of 3faorgan v. Zouisiana,93 U. S. 217, and louisville
&cNashville Railroad Co. v. Palmes,109 U. S. 244, relied upon
by the other side, there was no such permission.
.A&. U. X. Rose, for defendants'in error.
TR. JUSTICE NArrH-ws delivered the opinion of the court.
He recited the facts as above stated, and continued:
The case of the plaintiff in error rests entirely upon the'
words of the ninth section of the act of incorporation of the
Memphis and Little Rock Railroad Company of January 11,,
185*3, by which it was empowered to borrow money "on the
credit of the company and on the mortgage of its charter and
works." .It
is argued that these words'confer power upon the
company to convey to its bondholders, by way of mortgage
and on foreclosure, to purchasers absolutely, all the propertyof the company, and all its franchises, including the franchise
of becoming and being a coitporation, in the sense of acquiring
the right to organize as such under the act as successor to, and
substitute for, the original company, precisely as if, the act had
named them as corporators and endowed them with the corporate faculty. And this being assumed, it is thence inferred
that the exemption contained in section 28 of the act applies
to the substituted corporation as though no change of corporate
existence had taken place; and thus, it is insisted, the case is
taken out of rule of decision established in .1organ,v. Louisiana,
93 U. S. 217; Wilsaon v. Gaines, 103 U. S. 417, and Louisvil-le
&f Nashville Railroad Company v. Palmes, 109. U. S. 244.
According to."the principle of those decisions, the exemption
from taxation must be construed to have -been the personal
privilege of the very corporation specifically referred to, and
to have perished with that, unless the express and clear intention of the law requires the exemption to pass as a continuing
franchise to a successor. This salutary rule of interpretation
is founded upon an obvious public policy, which regards such
exemptions as in derogation of the sovereign authority and of
.,ommon right, and, therefore, not to be extended beyond the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

'exact and express requirement of the grants, construed 8tctmsSimijmriS.
It is not claimed that the assignment of the charter, by way
of mortgage and subsequent" judicial sale, constituted the purchasers to be the identical corporation that the mortgagor had
been; for that would involve an assumption of its obligations
and debts as

well

as an acquisition of its privileges and exemp-

tions ; but, it is insisted, that it resulted in another corporation
in lieu of the original one, entitled to all the provisions of the
charter, by relation to its date, as though it had been originally
organized under it.
But such a construction of the words authorizing a mortgage
of the charter and works of the company, is, in our opinion,
beyond the intention of the law and altogether inadmissible.
There is no express grant of corporate existenc6 to any new
body. At the time when this charter was granted, in 1853,
there was no general law in existence in Arkansas authorizing
the formation of corporations. All such grants were by special
act. Neither was there any law authorizing the purchasers of
railroads at judicial sale under mortgages of. the property and
franchises of the company, to organize themselves into corporate
bodies, such as was first passed in 1874. There is not in the
act of January 11, 1853, for the incorporation of the Memphis
and Little Rock Railroad Company, any reference to such a
right, as vested in the mortgage bondholders or other purchasers at a sale under a foreclosure of the mortgage, nor is
there any mode or machinery prescribed in the act for such an
organization. The desired conclusion rests entirely on the inference deduced from the mortgage of the charter, and is an
attemtpt to create a corporation by a judicial implication. But,
as was said by this court in Cental Railroad and Banking Co.
v. Georgia, 92 U. S. 665, 670, "it is an unbending rule that a
grant of corporate existence is never implied. In the construction of a statute every presumption is against it."
The application of this rule is not avoided by the claim that
th6 present is not the case of an original creation of a corporate
body, but the transfer, by assignment of a previously existing
charter, and of the right to exist as a corporation under it.

MEMPHIS RAILROAD CO. v. COMMISSIONERS. 619
Opinion of the Court.

The difference is one of words merely. The franchise of becoming and being a corporation, in its nature, is incommunicable by the act of the parties and incapable of passing by
assignment. "The franchise to be a corporation," said Hoar,
J., in Cornmanwealth v. Smith, 10 Allen, 448, 455, " clearly
cannot be transferred by any corporate body of it6 own will.
Such a franchise is not, in its own nature, transmissible." In
Hall v. Sullivan Railroad Co., 21 Law Repprter, 138 (2 Redfield's Am. Railway Cases, 621; 1 Brunner's Collected Cases,
613), 31r. Justice Curtis said: "The franchise to be a corporation, is, therefore, not a subject of sale and transfer, unless the
law, by some positive provision, has made it so, and pointed out
the modes in which such sale and transfer may be effected." No
such positive provision is contained in the act under consideration, and no mode for effecting the organization of a series of
corporations under it is pointed out, either in the act itself or
in any other statute prior to that of December 9, 1874.
The franchise of being a corporation need not be implied
as necessary to secure to the mortgage bondholders, or the
purchasers at a foreclosure sale, the substantial rights intended
to be secured. They acquire the ownership of the railroad,
and the property incident to it, and the franchise of maintaining and operating it as such; and the corporate existence is
not essential to its use and enjoyment. All the franchises
necessary or important to the beneficial use of the railroad
could as well be exercised by natural persons. The essential
properties of corporate existence are quite distinct from the
franchises of the corporation. The franchise of being a corporation belongs to the corporators, while the powers and
privileges, ves'ted in and to be exercised by the corporate body
as such, are the franchises of the corporation. The latter has
no power to dispose of the franchise of its members, which
may survive in the mere fact of corporate existence, after the
corporation. has parted with all its propierty, and all its franchises. If, in.tbe present instance, we suppose that a mortgage
and sale of the charter of the railroad company created a new
corporation, what becomes of the old one? If it abides for
the purpose of responding to obligations not satisfied by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Coutt.

sale, or of owning property not covered by the mortgage nor
embraced in the sale, as it may well do, and as it must if such
debts or property exist, then there will be two corporations coexisting under the same charter. For, "after an act of disposition which separates the franchise to maintain a railroad and
make profit from its use, from the franchise of being a corporation, though ajudgment of dissolution may be authorized, yet,
until there be such judgment, the rights of the corporators and
of third persons may require that the corporation be considered
as still existing." Coe v. Colurmbus, P qua & IndianaRail.
road Co., 10 Ohio St. 372, 386, per Gholson, J.
If, as required by the argument for the. plaintiff in error, we
regard and treat the franchise of being a corporation as an
incorporeal hereditament, and an estate capable of passing
between parties by deed, or of being charged by way of mortgage and of being sold under a power or by virtue of judicial
process, the logical consequences will be found to involve insuperable difficulties and contradictions. In the present case,
for example, after the execution of the first mortgage, we
should have the railroad company continuing as a corporation
in esse, and the trustees for the bondholders, or their beneficiaries, or assigns, a corporation in posse; and, after condition
broken, the company would hold the title to its own existence
as a mere equity of redemption. That equity it makes the
subject of a second mortgage, and, in default, the beneficiaries
under the power of sale became purchasers of the franchise,
and organize themselves, by virtue of it, into the Memphis and
Little Rock Railway Company. The latter can hardly claim
the status of a corporation at law, as the legal title to the franchise of being a corporation had never passed to it, on the
supposition that it might pass by a private grant; and, if a
corporation at all, it could only be regarded as the creature of
equity, according to the analogy of equitable estates, a nondescript class hitherto unknown in any system of law relating to
the subject. It finally was displaced by the judicial sale,
under which the plaintiff in error organized as successor to
both. In the mean time, the original corporation has never
been dissolved, and for all purposes not covered by the mort-

MEMPHIS RAILROAD CO. v. 6OMISSIONERS.

621.

Opinion of the Court.

gage, still maintains an existence as a corporate body, capable
of contracting, and of suing and being sued. A conception
which leads to such incongruities must be essentially erroneous.
If we concede to the argument for the plaintiff in error the
position, that the language used, which authorizes the mortgage of the charter, may be taken in a literal sense, still the
assignment would transfer it, in the very state in which it
might be at the date of the transfer. But at that date the
only corporation which the charter provided for had already
been organized. The only powers conferred, upon corporators
to that end had already been exercised and exhausted. The
bondholders under the mortgage, and their assignees, -the
purchasers at the sale, therefore took, and could take, nothing
else than the charter, so far as it remained unexecuted, with
such franchises and powers as were capable of future enjoyment and activity, and not such as, having already spent their
force by having been fully exerted, could not be revived by a
conveyance. This would include, by the necessity of the case,
the franchise to organize a corporation, which can only be exerted once for all; for the simple act of organization exhausts
the authority, and having once been effected, is legally incapable of repetition.
It is a mistake, however, to suppose that the mortgage and

sale of a charter by a corporation, in any proper sense which
can be legally imputed to the woids, necessarily conveys every
power and authority conferred by it, so far, at least, as to vest
a title in them, as franchises, irrevocable by reason of the obligation of a contract. In many, if not in most, acts of incorporation, 'however special in their nature, there are various provisions which are matters o? general law and not of contract,
and are, therefore, subject to modification or repeal.
Such, in our opinion, would be the character of the right in
the mortgage bondholders, or the purchasers at the sale under
the mortgage, to organize as a corporation, after acquiring title
to the mortgaged property, by sale under the mortgage, if, in
the charter under consideration, it had been conferred in express terms, and particular provision had been made as to the
mode of procedure to effect the purpose. It would be matter

OCTOBER TERMF, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

of law and not of contract. At least, it would be construed as
conferring only a right to organize as a corporation, according
to such laws as might be in force at the time when the actual
organization should take place, and subject to such limitations
as they might impose. It cannot, we think, be admitted that
a statutory provision for becoming a corporation infuturo can
become a contract, in the sense of that clause of the Constitution of the United States which prohibits State legislation impairing its obligation, until it has become vested as a right by
an actual organization under it; and then it takes effect as of
that date, and subject to such laws as may then be in force.
Such a contract, so far as it seems to assume that form, is a
provision merely that, at the time, or on the happening of the
event specified, the parties designated may become a corporation according to the laws that may then be actually in force.
The stipulation, whatever be its form, must be construed as
subject and subordinate to the paramount policy of the State,
and to the sovereign prerogative of deciding, in the mean time,
-what shall constitute the essential characteristics of corporate
existence. The State does not part with the franchise until it
passes to the organized corporation; and, when it is thus imparted, it must be what the government is then authorized to
grant and does actually confer.
It is immaterial that the form of the transaction is that of a
mortgage, sale, or other transfer inter _partes of the franchise
to be a corporation. "The real transaction, in all such cases
of transfer, sale, or conveyance," as was said by the Supreme
Court of Ohio in the case of Th4e &Mte v. SheIrMan, 22 Ohio
St. 411, 42S, "in legal effect, is nothing more or less, and
nothing other, than a surrender or abandonment of the old
charter by the corporators, and a grant de novo of a similar
charter to the so-called transfereesor purchasers. To look upon
it in any other light, and to regard the transaction as a literal
transfer or sale of the charter, is to be deceived, we think, by
a mere figure or form of speech. The vital part of the transaction, and that without which it would be a nullity, is the law
under which the transfer is made. The statute authorizing the
transfer and declaring its effect, is the grant of a new charter

MEMPHIS RAILROAD CO. v. COMMISSIONERS.

623

Opinion of the Court.

couched in few words, and to take effect upon condition of the
surrender or abandonment of the old charter; and the deed of
transfer is to be regarded as mere evidence of the surrender or
abandonment."
It is, of course, the law in force at the time the transaction
is consummated and made effectual, that must be looked to as
determining its validity and effect. This is the principle on
which this court proceeded in deciding the case of RailroadCo. v. Georgia, 98 U. S. 359. The franchise to be a corpora,
tion remained in, and was exercised by, the old corporation,
notwithstanding the mortgage of its charter, until the new corporation was formed and organized; it was then surrendered
to the State, and by a new grant then made passed to the corporators of the new corporation, and was held and exercised
by them under the constitutional restrictions then existing.
Our conclusions, then, are, that the exemption from taxation
contained in the 28th section of the act of January 11, 1853,
was intended to apply only to the Memphis and Little Rock
Railroad Company as the original corporation organized under
it; that it did not pass by the mortgage of its charter and
works, as included in the transfer of the franchise to bea corporation, to the mortgagees or purchasers at the judicial sale;
that the franchises embraced in that conveyance were limited
to those which had been granted as appropriate to the construction, maintenance, operation, and'use of the railroad as a public highway and the right to make profit therefrom; and that
the appellant, not having become a corporate body'until after
fhe restrictions in the Constitution of 187'4 took effect, was
thereby incapable in law of having or enjoying the privilege of
holding its property exempt from taxation.
The decree of the Supreme Court of Arkansas is accordingly
.Aff inred.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES CARTRIDGE COMPANY.
UNITED STATES CARTRIDGE COMPANY v. UNION
METALLIC CARTRIDGE COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Argued December 5,8, 9,1834.-Decided December 22, 184.

Letters patent No. 27,094 were issued to Ethan Allen, February 14, 1860, for
14 years, for an "improvement in machine for making percussion cartridge
cases." The patent was reissued in two divisions, No. 1,948 and No. 1,949,
Mlay 9, 1865. No. 1,948 embraced that part of the invention which con.
cerned the mechanism for striking up the hollow rim at one stroke. The
original patent and drawings showed such mechanism to be a moving die
and a fixed bunter. In No. 1,948, the description was altered so as to state
that the bunter might be carried against the die ; and its two claims each
contained the words "substantially as described." An extension of No.
1,948 having been applied for, it was opposed, on the ground that such arrangement of a fixed die and a moving bunter was a new invention, interpolated into the reissue. The Commissioner of Patents so held, and required such new matter to be disclaimed, as a condition precedent to the
extension. A disclaimer was filed disclaiming the movable bunter as of the
invention of Allen. No. 1,948 was then extended by a certificate which
stated that a disclaimer had been filed to that part. of the invention embraced in such new matter. In a suit in equity afterwards brought on NQ.
1,948, against machines having a fixed die and a moving bunter, for in-

fringements committed both before and after the extension : Held, That
the effect of the disclaimer was to exclude those maphines from the scope
of any claim in No. 1,948, without reference to the question whether they
contained mechanical equivalents for the moving die and the fixed bunter.
Allen had not, before the granting of the original patent, made any machine
in which the die was fixed and the bunter -novable; and it was never lawful
to cover, by the claims of a reissue, an improvement made after the granting of the original patent.
Under § 54 of the act of July 8, 1870, ch. 280, 16 Stat. 205, a disclaimer could
be made only by a patentee who had claimed more than that of which he
was the original or first inventor or discoverer, and he could make a dis-

claimer only of such parts of the thing patented as he should not choose to
claim or hold by virtue of the patent.
In so disclaiming or limiting a claim, descriptive matter on which the disclaimed claim was based might be erased; but, if there was merely a de-

CARTRIDGE CO. v CARTRIDGE CO.
Statement of Facts.
fective or insufficient description, the only mode of correcting it was by a
reissue.
The decision in Leggett v. Avery, 101 U. S. 256, cited and applied.
An acquiescence and disclaimer, on a decision requiring the disclaimer as a
condition precedent to an extension, are as operative to prevent the afterwards insisting on a recovery on the invention disclaimed, as to prevent a
subsequent reissue to claim what was so disclaimed.

Letters patent of the United States, No. 27,094, were issued
to Ethan Allen, February 14, 1860, for 14 years, for an "improvement in machine for making percussion cartridge cases."
A reissue of this patent was granted, in two divisions, No.
1,948 and No. 1,949, May 9, 1865, the application for the reissue having been filed April 7, 1865. The specification of No.
27,094 set forth two improvements: (1) an arrangement or
mechanism to trim the open end of the case of the cap-cartridge, to make the articles all alike and true; (2) striking up
or forming the swelled end to form the recess for the priming,
as shown at Z, from that of Y, at one stroke, in distinction
from spinning them. There were two claims in No. 27,094:
(1) the trimming mechanism; (2) striking or forming the hollow rim at one stroke or operation. In reissuing the patent,
the trimming mechanism was made the subject of No. 1,949,
and the other improvement (the subject-matter of claim 2 of
No. 27,094), was made the subject of No. 1,948. This suitwas
brought for the infringement of No. 1,948 alone. So much of
th. specification and claims of No. 27,094 as related to the subject of No. 1,948, is copied below on the left hand, and the
- specification and claims of No. 1,948 are copied below on the
right hand, the parts of each not found in the other being in
italic:

O,;iginal. AYo. 27,094.
"Be it known that I, Ethan
Allen, of the city and county
of Worcester, State of Massachusetts, have invented certain
new and useful improvements in
machinery for making loaded
voL. cxU-40

Be-is&ue. NYo. 1,948.
"Be it known that I, Ethan
Allen, of the city'and county
of Worcester and State of Massachusetts, have invented certain new and useful improvements in machinery for making

OOTOBER TERIM 1884.
Statement of Facts.

loaded caps or cap-cartridges;
and I hereby declare the following to be a full, clear and
exact description of the construction and operation of the
same, reference being had to
the accompanying drawings,
in which -Figure1 is a' top view
or plan, and Fig. 2 is a side
view, and pertains to a machine which is the .Uect of another reissue of these letters
.patent.
Ify improvements relate to
My improvements relate to
the construction or formation the construction or formation
of the case of the cap cartridge of the case of a metallic carin the form s8hwn at Z, or tridge, and consist in an arnearly so, and consist . . .In rangement of mechanism for
striking up or forming the forming or striking up the
swelled end to form the recess swelled end to form the recess
for the priming, as shown at Z, for the priming, as shown at Z,
from that of Y, at one stroke, from that of Y, at one stroke
in distinction from spinning or operation,in distinction from
them, as has heretofore been spinning them, as has heretodone.
fore been done.
The construction of my im- The construction of my improvements, as shown in the provements, as shown in the
drawings, is as follows: J is drawings, is as follows: -E is
the driving pulley to receh5e mo- the base of the machine; J, the
tion, and its shaft is provided driving pulley, which is prowith cranks or eccentrics at each vided with a crank or eccentric,
end, to which the rods H and to which the rod H' is conH' connect, the shaft turningin nected; F is a slide receiving
suitable bearings in the frame motion by H', and moving in
or base K. . . . F is a slide re- ways G, G, carrying the manceiving motion by H' and mov- drel B, which passes through
ing in the ways G, G, carrying the die D; the die D has a
the mandrel B, which passes spring to keep or move it back
caps or cap-cartridges; and I
hereby declare the following to
be a full, clear and exact description of the construction
and operation of the same, reference being had to the accompanying drawings, in which
Fig.1 is a top view or plan,
and Fig. 2 a side view; the
same letters indicatvng the same
.partsin both.

CARTRIDGE CO. v. CARTRIDGE CO.
Statement of Facts."

through the movable die D, towards F, and a hopper-like
which has a spring to keep or opening in the 'upper side to famove it back towards F, and cilitate placing the case A, to
an enlargement in its centre, to be taken by B and carriedinto
facilitate placing the case A' to the die . The mandrel B has
be taken by B. The end of D a shoulder, a s&ffcient distance
nexet to E has a hole fitting on from the end to allow it to en,
te outside of the case A! E ister the cartridge shell just the
a die with an adjusting screw. rightdistance, and leave'enough
Y is a case as it comes from the metal to bepulled into the head
press,and Z shows the same af- qf the cartridge. The die D is
ter being trimmed and set, or, just the right size to be filed by
in other word, gone through the shell A when pressed into it
the following operation, to by the punch or mandrel B." E
wit: . . .
is a die with an adjuable
screw, and the case may be carried against it to form the head
or rim, or that may be carried
against the die D by similar
mechanism to Fand H; Z is
& case or shell after being headed,forming the cavity for the
fudminatingpowder.
It" (the case or shell) "i8
The operationis as follows,
placed in 1) or A' to be taken viz., motion, being given topulon B and carried forward until ley J, is communicated through
its end projects (sufficiently to IT, to F and B, and the- cases
form its rim) out of 1D, when or shells are placed in the recess
F, meeting D, carries it with A' or in, an inclined tube, which
in that position up against E, feeds them to the punch B. The
which flattens the end, and shell is taken on the punch B,
forms the hollow rim, as shown and carried through the die D
in section at Z, Fig. 2; and, until the end projects suffithe motion of J continuing, the ciently to form its rim, when
parts all return to their respec- F, meeting D, carries it with
tive places, ready for another, A in that position up against
which, during the same .time, E, which flattens the end, and
has been preparedas before de- forms the hollow rim, as shown

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

scribed; the finished case drop- in section at Z, Fig. 2; and,
ping between the dies D and the motion of J continuing, the

E, or, if sticking in -, is parts all return to their respecpunched out by the frst motion tive places, ready for another
of the next one andfalls out of sh.ll, which, during the same
its way.
Having thus fully described
my invention, what I claim
therein as new and desire to
&cure by letterspdtent is . ..

time, has been placed in Posi-

tion as before described, and
the punch B, taking on another
shell, is carried into the die D,
and presses out the one before
headed, which drops between
the dies D and E, when the
operation is repeatedas before.
I claim the mandrel which
Second. I claim striking or
forming the hollow Pim at one carries the cartridge shell, in
stroke or operation,as above set combination with the die 1D,
which admits the same, and
forth and described."
againstwhich the closed end of
the cartridge shell is headed,
substantially as described.
Second. I claim the die 1),
constructed and operatingfor
the heading of cartridge shells,
substantially as described."
The following were drawings of the original and of the reissue:

CARTRIDGE CO. v. CARTRIDGE CO.
Statement of Facts.

xy

The Allen machine, as organized for heading, and making a
flange upon, cartridge shells, consisted, mainly, of a mandrel, a
die, and a bunter, which were combined together in order to
operate. The mandrel was a rod with a shoulder upon it, the
rod beyond the shoulder being of such diameter as to enter the
cartridge shell, which was to. be headed, with a pretty close fit,
and the shoulder being at right angles to the rod, and formed
to support the edge of the shell at the open end of the cartridge, during the operation of heading. The die was a block
of metal with a hole in it, of just the size of the outside of the
shell; and the axes of the die and mandrel were in the same
line. The bunter was a piece of metal so located that it was
opposite one end of the die. The machine was also provided
with a gutter, which was a prolongation of the hole in the
die, but open on top, into which shells were to be introduced
prior to being acted upon by the machine. When an unheaded
shell was placed in this gutter, with the mandrel as far retracted from the die as possible, the mandrel advanced, in-

OCTOB3ER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

serted itself into the shell, and shoved the shell into the die
with its closed end projecting beyond the die a sufficient distance to afford metal from which the flange might be formed.
In this position, the outside of the shell was supported by the
die, the inside of the shell by the mandrel, and the edges at
the open end of the shell by the shoulder on the mandrel
The die, mandrel, and shell then advanced together, and the
closed end of the shell was forced against the bunter, the shell
being thus squeezed down so as to. form the flange of the cartridge. The mandrel then retreated, and, as it retreated, slipped
out of the shell, leaving the headed shell in the die, and, when
the mandrel was fully out of the shrell, the die was in its old
p6sition. The shell could not follow the mandrel, owing to
the fact that it was now headed, and that its head was on that
side of the die which was farthest from the mandrel After
the mandrel had retreated sufficiently far.from that end of the
die which was nearest the mandrel, a second unflanged shell
might be placed in the gutter. The mandrel then advanced
and entered the shell as before, and the advance of this shell
on the end of the mandrel drove out the shell which had just
been headed and was sticking in the die. After this second
shell had been driven far enough into the die, it was headed as
the first shell was, andwas, in turn, pushed out by a third shell;
and so on in succession. In the operation of the machine, the
shell was forced into one end of the die and expelled at the
other end, so that the shell moved in the same line and in the
same direction from the time it was first acted upon by the
mandrel until it was completely expelled from the die. The
end of the die farthest from the mandrel was the anvil or rest
against which the shell was headed, by the conjoint action of
the die and the bunter, the flange being formed fully at the
time when the die and bunter were as near as possible the one
to the other.
The description in the original patent of the mechanism for
striking up or forming at one stroke the swelled end to form
the recess for the priming, described the die D as movable,
and as being carried with the case or shell, and the mandrel B,
in it, against the stationary die E. This is the description to

-CARTRIDGE CO. v. CARTRIDGE CO.
.Statement of Facts.

which the second claim of the original patent referred when it
claimed "1trikingor forming the hollow rim at one stroke or
operation, as above set forth and described." The drawings
represented that arrangement and no other.
In the reissue, it was stated that the case or shell might be
carried against the die E to form the rim, or the die E might be
carried against the die D by similar mechanism to the slide F
and the rod H'. It was also stated that the cases or shells
were placed in the recess or gutter, or in an inclined tube,
which fed them to the punch or mandrel B. Nothing was said
in the specification of the original patent about carrying the
die E against the die D, or about feeding the cases or shells by
an inclined tube.
Allen having died, Sarah E. Allen was duly appointed his
executrix, in February, 1871. In November, 1873, she applied
to the Commissioner of Patents for an extension of No. 1,948
and of No. 1,949. The application was opposed by E. Remington & Sons. Much testimony was taken on both sides. The
day of hearing was February 4, 1874. The Commissioner
of Patents decided to grant the extension, and rendered the
tollowing decision, 5 Off. Gaz. 14:
"This is an application by the executrix of the -estate of
Ethan Allen, for the extension of reissued patents Nos. 1,948
and 1,949, granted May 9, 1865. The original patent was
granted to Ethan Allen, February 14,1860, and comprehended
-a combined apparatus for trimming the open ends, and thei
heading the closed ends, of blanks for forming metallic cartridge shells. These operations are each performed automatically, but independently, by different portions of the machinery.
Reissue No. 1,948 comprehends the mechanism for heading the
shell, and No. 1,949 that for trimming it. No testimony is
presented relating to the latter, and it may be dismissed from
consideration. Some interpolations of new matter appear in
the former, but they have been disclaimed, rendering the scope
of the patent unequivocally that of the invention originally
described and illustrated in drawing and model. The device
in question consists of a hollow recessed sliding die, a reciprocating mandrel, having a shoulder permitting it to enter a shell

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

the proper distance for heading, and a stationary bunter, organized into a machine which operates as follows: The mandrel being withdrawn into the back portion of the die, which
serves merely as a guide for it, a shell with its open end to the
rear is placed in the recess of the die, in the path of the mandrel. As the mandrel advances, it enters the shell, and carries it into the die until its closed end projects a little in front
for heading. At this point the stock of the mandrel strikes
the rear of the die and carries it forward until the projecting
end of the shell strikes a fixed anvil and is headed. The mandrel and die then retreat, carrying the headed shell, the die being forced back by a spring to its original position, and the
mandrel continuing until it has withdrawn from the shell and
passed the feeding recess. The headed shell remains in the
die until it is forced out by the -advance of the next shell.
This is the machine patented, and the claims of the patent are
as follows: '1. The mandrel which carries the cartridge shell,
in combination with the die D, which admits the same, and
against which the closed end of the cartridge shell is headed,
substantially as described. 2. The die I), constructed and
operating for the heading of cartridge shells, substantially as
described. This was the first successful organized automatic
machine for heading cartridge shells. It has undergone various improvements, however, and, as built, and (according to
the testimony of the witness Cook) used by the inventor, it is
not now in use. It, however, furnished the essential principle
of construction which has been maintained in all succeeding
heading machines of its class. The hollow die and reciprocating mandrel to receive and carry forward the shell to be headed,
and at the same time force out the preceding headed shell, are
the chief elements of the machines which have produced the
*ast quantity of shells that have come into the market since
the date of this invention. The rear or guide portion of the
die is omitted in the present machines; and, instead of a recess in the die, a special feeding device is employed; also, instead of advancing the die against the anvil, it is now made
stationary and the anvil is advanced, the die spring being transferred to it. Whether this latter modification, which is the

CARTRIDGE CO. v. CARTRIDGE CO.
Statement of Facts.

principal one, and is admitted to effect materially superior results in heading'tlie larger sizes of shells, is in legal contemplation an equivalent construction mechanically improved, or
a substantive invention, has been the subject of much contention in this application. I am, however, so entiely convinced
that the matter introduced into the reissue, describing the holding die as stationary, and the bunter as movable, was new matter describing a substantially different invention from the original, possessing different functions, that I have required, as a
condition precedent to extension, that this new matter, together with that of the inclined tube for feeding, should be
absolutely disclaimed. With such disclaimer, the patent is extended."
With a view to the extension, the following disclaimer was
filed on the 4th of February, 1874:
"To the Commissioner of Patents:
Whereas reissued letters patent of the United States were,
on the ninth day of May, A.D. 1865, granted to Ethan Allen,
of Worcester, in the county of Worcester, State of Massachusetts, numbered 1,948; and whereas the Union Metallic Cartridge Company are now the sole owners of said reissued letters patent; and whereas Sarah E. Allen, of said Worcester, as
the executrix of the goods and estate of said Ethan Allen, is
the sole owner of any extended term of said letters patent
which may hereafter be granted; and whereas the Union Metallic Cartridge Company aforesaid have an equitable interest
in the extended terma of said letters patent: Now, therefore,
the said Union Metallic Cartridge Company and the said Sarah
E. Allen, executrix, as aforesaid, respectfully show to the Honorable Commissioner of Patents, that, through inadvertence,
accident, or mistake, the words ' or that may be carried
against the die D by similar mechanism to F and H' were
inserted in the descriptive part of said reissued letters patent
No. 1,948, which words were not in the descriptive part of the
original letters patent of said Ethan Allen; and thereupon
your petitioners disclaim the said movable die E as being of
the invention of said Ethan Allen, except in so far as the same,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

by fair construction, -may be deemed the mechanical equivalent
of the die E/described and shown in-said original letters patent
and the drawing thereof : And whereas the said reissued letters
patent No. 1,948, in the descriptive part thereof, contain the
words ' or in an inclined tube,' which words are not found in
the descriptive part of the original letters patent of said Ethan
Allen, but said words -were introduced into the specification
of said reissued letters patent by inadvertence, accident, or
mistake, your petitioners disclaim such incline4 tube as being
of the invention of the said Allen.
E. ALI.x, _Exectri4..
SA4x.
UNION M ETALC CARRIDGE Co.,
M. HAnTLEY,

Ppesident."

The following additional disclaimer was filed on the 13th of
February, 187'4:
"To the .onorabk the Commissioner of Patents :
Whereas reissued letters patent of the United States were,
on the ninth day of May, A.D. 1865, granted to Ethan Allen,
of Worcester, in the county of Worcester, and State of Yassachusetts, numbered 1,948; and whereas the Union Metallic
Cartridge Company, of Bridgeport, State of Connecticut, are
now, the sole owners of said reissued letters patent; and
whereas Sarah E. Allen, of said Worcester, as the executrix ofthe goods and estate of said Ethan Allen, is the sole-owner of
any extended term of said letters patent which may be
granted: Now, therefore, the Union Metallic Cartridge Company and Sarah E. Allen, executrix, as aforesaid, respectfully
show to the Honorable Commissioner of :Patents, that, through
'inadvertence, accident, or mistake, the words 'or that may be
carried against the die D by similar mechanism to F and H"
were inserted in the descriptive part of said reissued letters
patent No. 1,948, which words were not in the descriptive part
of the original letters patent of said Ethan Allen; and thereupon your petitioners disclaim the said movable die E (called a
bunter) as being of the invention of said Ethan Allen, thus
leaving the description of said die E the same as shown in the

CARTRIDGE 'UO. v. CARTRIDGE CO.
Statement of Facts.

original letters patent and the drawings thereof: And whereas
the said zeissued letters patent numbered 1,948, in the descriptive part thereof, contain the words Ior in an inclined tube,'
which words are not found in the descriptive part of the
original letters patent of said Ethan Allen, but said words
were introduced into the specification of said, reissaed letters
patent by inadvertence, accident, or mistake, your petitioners
disclaim said inclined tube as being of the invention of sai4
Ethan Allen. This disclaimer is absolute, and is filed as an
additional disclaimer to that filed February 4, .A.D. 1874, in
which certain reservations were made.
UNION MEALLIC O.ATRITE

Co.,

M. HARTLEY, P'e&iend .
SARtAu E. ALL-Ew, E~eJutr24C

New Yorl February 9, 1874."
The certificate of extension of No. 1,948 was as follows:
"Whereas, upon the petition of Sarah E. Allen, of Worcester, Massachusetts, executrix of the estate of Ethan Allen, deceased, for the extension of the patent granted to said Ethan
Allen February 14, 1860, and reissued May 9, 1865, numbered'
1,948, for 'machine for making cartridge cases,' the undersigned, in accordance with the act of Congress approved the
8th day of July, 1870, entitled 'An Act to revise, consolidate,
and amend the statutes relating to patents and copyrights,'
(the said Sarah E. Allen, executrix, having filed a ' disclaimer' to that part of the invention embraced in the following words: 'or that may be carried against the die D- by
similar mechanism to F and H';' also the words ' or in an inclined tube,') did, on this thirteenth day of February, 1874,
decide that said patent ought to be extended: Now, therefore,
I, Mortimer D. Leggett, Commissioner of Patents, by virtue
of the power vested in me by said act of Congress, do renew
and extend the said patent, and certify that the same is hereby
extended for the term of seven years from and after the expiration of the first term, viz., from the fourteenth day of
February, 1874; which certificate being duly entered of record

OCTOBER .TERX, 1884.
Statemdnt of Facts.

in'the Patent Office, the said patent has now the same effect
in law as though the same had been originally granted for the
term of twenty-one years.
In testimony whereof, I have caused the seal of the Patent
Office to be hereunto affixed this thirteenth day of February,
1874, and of the Independence of the United States the ninetyeighth.
ff. D. LEGGMTr, Commis8ioner."
[sEA.]
Sarah E. Allen, executrix, having, on the 21st of February,
1874, assigned her title to the extended term of No. 1,948, to
the Union Metallic Cartridge Company, it brought this suit in
equity against the United States Cartridge Company, on the
18th of March, 1874, for the infringe.ment of No. 1,948. The
bill alleged an assignment by the executrix to the plaintiff, of
her title to No. 1,948, on the 10th of February, 1871 ; an assignment by the plaintiff to her, on the 7th of February, 1874,
of all of its title to No. 1,948; the extension; and the assignment of the extended term. The assignments above mentioned
were duly proved. The bill made no reference to any disclaimer.
The machine of the defendant had the die D stationary and
the die E, or bunter, movable, and it had an inclined tube for
feeding. The die D, the mandrel B, and the bunter E were,
as tools, the same as those in the plaintiff's machine. The
mandrel entered the shell, pushed it into the die D, supported it
on the inside while it was being headed, and the unheaded
shell expelled the headed shell from the die D, as in the plaintiff's machine. The die D supported the outside of the shell
while it was being headed, and the end of that die acted as an
anvil against -which the flange was formed by the joint operation of such anvil and the bunter, as in the plaintiff's machine.
The flange was fully formed at the time when the end of the
die D and the bunter were as close together as the operation
of the machine would permit them to be, which was true, also,
of the plaintiff's machine. In the defendant's machine, as in
the plaintiff's, the unheaded shell entered at one end of the die
D, and was expelled from the other end, and moved always in

CARTRIDGE CO. v. CARTRIDGE CO.
Statement of Facts.

the same direction -with relation to the die D, from the time
that the mandrel first took charge of it, until, after being
headed, it was expelled from the die. But, in the defendant's
machine the die D stood still and the bunter moved towards it
to head the shell, while the drawings of No. 27,094 and of
N o. 1,948 showed a stationary bunter, and the die D moving
towards it, to head the shell
The answer denied that the reissue was lawful, and averred
that the original patent was surrendered to claim inventions
not made by Allen; that the reissue No. 1,948 was not for the
same invention as was the original patent; that, as the reissue
was void, the extension, also, was void; that the commissioner
granted the extension only on the express condition precedent,
that certain new matter unlawfully introduced into the reissue
(as decided by him), should be absolutely disclaimed, and that
only upon such disclaimer should the patent be extended; and
that said condition had not been complied with. It denied infringement.
Proofs having been taken, the case was heard before Judge
Shepley, and he decided it in favor of the plaintiff, on the 13th
of April, 1877, and entered a decree holding No. 1,948 to be
valid, and to have been infringed, and awarded an account of
profits and damages, before a master, from February 10, 1871;
except as to the period from February 7, 1874, to February
21, 1874, and a perpetual injunction restraining the defendant
from making, using or vending "machines for heading cartridge shells, having a die, mandrel and bunter," excepting five
machines specially named, the question as to the use of which
was reserved till the master should make his report. The decision of Judge Shepley, 2 Bann. & A., 593, and 11 Off. Gas.
1113, said: "1In the machine admitted to be used by the defendant are found substantially the same die, mandrel and bunter,
operating in the same manner to form the flanged head of the
cartridge and to expel the shell after being headed, except that
in defendant's machine the bunter. moves toward the die to
head the shell, while in the Allen machine the die moves
toward the bunter to head the shell. The fact, as proved,
that, especially in the case of cartridges of larger sizes, therp

OCTOBER TERM, 1884..
Statement of Fact&

is an advantage in having the die stationary, while the bunter
moves toward it, is not suffcient alone to shoW that this latter
form of the machine is not an equivalent of the other, all the
elements of the combination existing alike in both, and acting
alike in combination. It is contended on the part of the defendait, that the action of the Commissioner of Patents, in
requiring a disclaimer of so much of the reissued patent as
claimed in specific terms the use of the movable bunter and
the stationary die, as an equivalent for the movable die and
the fixed bunter, before granting an extension, is conclusive
upon the complainant, but we do not so regard it. The
patentee, without describing equivalents, is entitled. to use
equivalents, and to treat the use of equivalents by others as
an infringement, and this, upon the evidence in the record,
appears to be a clear case of such a use."
The master made a report as to profits, to which exceptions
were filed by both parties. On the hearing of the exceptions
the case was reheard before Judge Lowell on the question as
to whether the original decree should be reversed. He rendered a decision, 7 Fed. Rep. 344, in which he said: " Allen's
original patent described a machine organized to move a 'die'
against a 'bunter,' and, by their contact, to form a flange or
head upon the metallic cartridge, which was carried by the
die. The defendant's machine brought a movable bunter
against a fixed die. This was. an improved form of the machine, and was, perhaps, a p'atentable improvement; but it
was the same machine, and was an undoubted infringement.
This improvement was invented by Allen himself, but, after
he had obtained his patent, and when he .eked for a reissue, he
,inserted in his description of the mechanism this modified and
improved form. The Commissioner required him to disclaim
this part of his description, as a condition precedent to granting the reissue. Judge Shepley held that the disclaimer did
not prevent the patentee from enjoining the use of machines
having this improvement. It is now argued, and, certainly,
with much force, that Leggett v. Avey, 101 U. S. 256, holds
the patentee to this disclaimer, as an estoppel. I appreciate
the argument, but do not consider myself bound to reverse

CARTRIDGE CO. v. CARTRIDGE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

Judge Shepley's decision, which I should not feel at liberty to
do unless my mind were entirely satisfied that he was wrong.
No one can doubt that, if a patentee obtains a patent upon his
solemn admission of certain facts, he shall never thereafter be
permitted to controvert them. This is .Leggett v. Avery. Judge
Shepley, though giving his opinion before that case was decided, could not have overlooked thispoint. I understand
him to decide, that the admission in this case was not of a fact
of invention, but of the propriety of inserting a certain clause

in the descriptive part of the specification, and, if this were
not so, still, if the patentee's invention and his patent rightly
included this form, as an equivalent, it was a mere nullity, like
an admission of law, to confess that it did not include it. This
is the idea shortly expressed by Judge Shepley; and I do not
see any necessary conflict between it and the decision of the
Supreme Court."
The exceptions of both parties were overruled, and a decree
was entered for the plaintit for $40,361.26, profits to April 23;
1877, without damages. From this- decr.e both parties appealed to this court2 but the plaintiff waived its appeal, at the
bar.
.M.
M F. P. Fisk and 2fr. B. F. Butler for appellants.
.Y. Edmund Fetmore and .Mr. Caustenr Browne for ap-.
pellees.
M .JusTicE BLAToHFoRD delivered the opinion of the court.
He recited the facts as above stated, and continued:
M3any questions were discussed at the hearing which we
deem it unnecessary to consider, because we are of opinion
that the, disclaimer made has the effect to so limit the construction of the claims of the reissue that the defendant's machine
cannot be held to infringe those claims. The opposition:to the
extension proceeded, among other things, on the ground that
reissue No. 1,948 was. so worded as to cover a machine having
a stationary die and a movable bunter-one not within, the
language or the scope of the original patent, not indicated

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

therein as the invention of Allen, and not described, and a substantially new and different invention. That the Commissioner. intended that the extension should not be granted unless there should be a disclaimer of all claim to have No. 1,948
cover a machine with a stationary die and a movable bunter,
and that the second disclaimer filed was such a disclaimer, and
that the patent extended cannot be held to be one which
covers, by any claim, the defendant's machine, is, we think,
entirely clear.
The Commissioner, in his decision, says, that the "interpolations of new matter" in No. 1,948 "have been disclaimed,"
and that such disclaimer renders "the scope of the patent unequivocally that of the invention originally described and illustrated in drawing and model." The disclaimer is referred to
as limiting the scope of the patent, that is, the extent of its
claims, and as reducing such scope and extent to what the
drawings and moalel illustrated, namely, a movable die and a
stationary bunter, to the exclusion of a stationary die and a
movable buner. The Commissioner adds, that it had been the
subject of much c6ntention, in the application for the extension, whether the modification, of having a stationary die and
a movable anvil, which, he says, it was admitted, effected
materially superior results in heading the larger sizes of shells,
was, in legal contemplation, an equivalent construction mechanically improved, or a substantive invention; and that he is
so entirely convinced that the matter introduced into the reissue, describing the holding die as stationary, and the bunter as
movable, was new matter describing a substantially different
invention from the original, possessing different functions, that
he 'had required, as a condition precedent-to extension, that
this new matter should be absolutely disclaimed. The new
matter introduced into the reissue in respect to the moving of
the bunter or die E, was introduced into the descriptive part,
by inserting the words, "or that" (the die E) "may be carried
-against the die D by similar mechanism to F and I'," but it
was also introduced into the two claims, by the use of the
words "substantially as described," in those claims.
This reissue took place under § 13 of the act- of July 4,

CARTRIDGE CO. v. CARTRIDGE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

1836, ch. 357, 5 Stat. 122, which provided for a surrender
and the issuing of a new patent "for the same invention," "in
accordance with the patentee's corrected description and specification." This provision was repeated in § 53 of the act of
July 8, 1870, ch. 230, 16 Stat. 205, now § 4916 of the Revised
Statutes, with the additional 'enactment that "no new matter
shall be introduced into the specification." But where new
matter was, even before the act of 1870, introduced into the
description, and in such manner as to enlarge the claim, and
cause the patent to be not "for the same invention," the
reissue was invalid to the extent that it was not for the same
invention.
It is quite clear that Allen bad not, before the granting of
the original patent, made any machine in which the die D was
stationary and the bunter movable. If that arrangement was
a "new improvement of the original invention," and was invented by Allen, and after the date of the original patent, he
could, under § 13 of the act of 1836, have had a "description
and specification" of it ".annexed to the original description.
and specification," on like proceedings as in the case of an
original application, and it would have had "the same effect,
in law," from "the time of its being annexed and recorded,"
"as though it had been embraced in the original description
and specification;" or he could have applied for a new patent
for the improvement. Such last named provision of § 13 of the
act of 1836 was repealed by the act of 1870, and was not reenacted therein, nor is it found in the Revised Statutes. But
it was never lawful to cover, by the claims of a reissue, an improvement ihade after the granting of the original patent.
The statute in force in regard to disclaimers, when the disclaimers were filed in this case, was § 54 of the act of 1870,
which provided, "that whenever, through inadvertence, accident or mistake, and without any fradulent or deceptive intention, a patentee has claimed more than that of which he was
the original or first inventor or discoverer, his patent.shall
be valid for all that part which is truly and justly his own,
provided the same is a material or substantial part of the thing
patented; and any such patentee, his heirs or assigns, whether
voL. cx--41

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

of the whole or any sectional interest therei,'may, on payment of the duty'required by la-w, make disclaimer of such
parts of the thing patented as he shall not choose to claim or
hold by virtue ef- the patent or assignment, stating therein the
extent of his interest in such patent; said disclaimer shall be in
writing, attested by one or more witnesses, and recorded in the
Patent Office, and it shall thereafter be considered as part of
the original specification, to the extent of the interest possessed
by the claimant and by those claiming under him after the
record thereof." This word "claimant" is an evident error,
for "disclaimant," as " disclaimant" is the word used in § I of
the act of March 3, 183T, ch. 45, 5 Stat. 193, which was the
first stAtute providing for a disclainer. This error is perpetuated in § 491'[ of the Revised Statutes.
It is a patentee who "has claimed more than that of which
he was the original or first inventor or discoverer," and only
"such patentee," or his assigns, who can make a disclaimer;
and the disclaimer can be a disclaimer only "of such parts of
the thing patented as he shall not choose to claim or hold by virtue of the patent or assignment." A disclaimer can be made
only when something has been claimed of which the pat6ntee
was not the original or first inventor, and when it is intended
to limit a claim in respect to the thing so not originally or first
invented. It is true, that, in so disclaiming or limiting a claim,
descriptive matter on which the disclaimed claim is based, may,
as incidental, be erased, in aid of, or as ancillary-to. the disclaimer. But the statute expressly limits a disclaimer to a rejection of something before claimed as new or as invented,
when it was not new or invented, and which th6 patentee or
his assignee no longer chooses to claim or hold. It is true,
that this same end may be reached by a reissue, when the
patentee has claimed as his own invention more than he had a
right to claim as new, but, if a claim is not to be rejected or
limited, but there is merely "a defective or insufficient specification," that is, description, as distinguished from a claim, the
only mode of correcting it was and is by a reissue.
It is apparent that the Commissioner, when he said that the
disclaimer affected "the scope of the patent," and that the

CARTRIDGE CO. v. CARTRIDGE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

matter introduced into the reissue was "new matter, describing a substantially different invention from the original, possessing different functions," and that he had required it to be
absolutely disclaimed, "as a condition precedent to extension,"
meant that he had required such new matter, that is, the arrangement of a stationary die and a movable bunter, to be
disclaimed, as an invention of Allen, covered by the reissue.
What was done was in accordance with this view. In the
first disclaimer, that of February 4th, 1874, it is said, that by
inadvertence, accident, or mistake, the words "or that may be
carried against the die D by similar mechanism to F and H'-"
were inserted in the descriptive part of No. 1,948, and were
not in the descriptive part of the original patent. Thereupon,
the petitioners disclaim, not such descriptive words, as a description merely, but they disclaim "the movable die E as being of the invention of"1 Allen, but with this limitation or reservation, "except in so far as the same, by fair construction,
may be deemed the mechanical equivalent of the die E described and shown" in the original patent and its drawings.
It was sought to reserve the question of the mechanical equivalency of the stationary die and movable bunter with the movable die and stationary bunter, and not have the disclaimer absolutely reach and cover the former, but still leave the claims
to cover it. But this was evidently not satisfactory to the
Commissioner, and he required a further disclaimer. So, the
one of February t3, 1874, was filed, which states, on its face,
that it "is absolute, and is filed as an additional disclaimer" to
the first one, "in which certain reservations were made." In
this second disclaimer, the language as to the inserted words is
the same as in the first, and the statement of disclaimer is,
that the "petitioners disclaim the said movable die E (called a
bpnter) as being of the invention" of Allen, " thus leaving the
description of said die E the same as shown in the" original
patent and drawings. The reservation was expunged.. The
effect of the, disclaimer was to limit the claims of the reissue
toa machine with the stationary die E, shown in the original
patent and. drawings, and to prevent their any longer covering,
even if they had before covered, a movable die E, or bunter..

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of tho Court.

Such was the effect of the disclaimer on the reissue, without
reference to the extension. But, the certificate of extension
itself states, that the executrix had "filed a disclaimer to that
part of the invention embraced in the following words: 'or
that may be carried against the die D by similar mechanism to
F and I','" and what is extended is 1o.1,948, with such disclaimer. After an extension has been obtained on the condition precedent of making such disclaimer, the disclaimer cannot be held inoperative as respects the extended term.
We regard this case as falling within the principles laid down
in Leggett v. Avery, 101 U. S. 256. There the original patent
was issued in October, 1860. It was surrendered and reissued
in June, 1869, and extended in October, 1874. As a condition
of obtaining the extension, the patentee disclaimed the specific
claims which the defendants in the suit were charged with infringing, the extension having been opposed, and the Commissioner having refused to grant it unless the patentee would
abandon all but one of the six claims of the reissue, there having been but one claim in the original patent. This was done,
and the extension was granted for only one of the six claims,
which one the defendants had not infringed. Three days after
the extension was granted a reissue was applied for, including
substantially the claims which had been thus disclaimed. The
reissue was granted, two of the claims in it being for substantially the same inventions which had been so disclaimed before
the extension, and for different inventions from the invention
secured by the patent as extended. A reference to the record
of the case in this court shows, that the Commissioner decided
that the extension would be granted provided-the disclaimer
should be filed, and that the disclaimer concluded with the
words "reserving right to reissue in proper form." -This court
held, that the Commissioner erred in allowing, in the- second reissue, claims which had been expressly disclaimed, because the
validity of such claims had been considered and decided with
the acquiescence and express disclaimer of the patentee; and
that this was a fatal objection to the validity of the second reissue.
The acquiescence and disclaimer must be regaxded as equally

UNITED STATES v. GREAT FALLS MFG. CO.

645

Syllabus.

operative to prevent those who hold the reissue in suit, whether
in respect to the time before or after the extension, from being
heard to allege that persons who use machines with a stationary
die D and a movable bunter* E infringe the claims of the reissue. The disclaimer was one of the fact of invention. It
could not lawfully be anything but a disclaimer of the fact,
either of original invention, or of first invention. It was not
merely the expunging of a descriptive part of the specification,
involving only the propriety of inserting such descriptive part
in the specification, but it was a disclaimer of all claim based
on such descriptive part, because the claims were made to cover
such descriptive part, by the words "substantially as described,"
in the two claims. The question of fact is not open now as to
whether Allen invented at any time the stationary die D and
movable bunter E, or as to whether it was, or is, or could be,
a mechanical equivalent for the movable die D and stationary
bunter E, because those questions are concluded by the dis,Plaimer.
It is conceded by the plaintiff, that, if by the operation of
the disclaimer, it is estopped to say that a stationary die D and
a movable bunter E are the equivalent of the movable die D
and the stationary bunter E, the defendant does not infringe.
[e decree of the Circuit Court is reversed, with costs to the.
united sates Cartridge Cornjamy, on bota apyeals, and
the case is remanded to that court, with direction to ditmiss

the ill, with costs.

UNITED STATES v. GREAT FALLS MANUFAOTUR'L\TG COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Argued December 1, 1,W4.-DecIded December 2, I554.

Where property to which the United States asserts no title, is taken by their
officers or agents, pursuant to an act of Congress, as private property.
for the public use, the government is under an implied obligation to-make
just compensation to the owner.

