OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

ceptance, and for the plaintiff thereafter, if such communication had
been made, to give further instructions as to the form of acceptance. The plaintiff was not advised of the form of the acceptance
until the first draft was protested for non-payment and returned
to it, at which time the drawers and indorser were insolvent.
There is no finding as to the taking by the Newark Bank of any
acceptances from Conger individually, of drafts drawn on the
Newark Tea Tray Company, and there is a finding that when the
drafts were presented to Conger by the Newark bank he declined
to accept them in his official capacity. These differences are immaterial, under the views held in No. 86.
T7ejudgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, with direction
to award a new t-ial.

HEIDRITTER v. ELIZA-BETH OIL-CLOTH CO]MPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE CmCUrT COURT OF THE U'ITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
Argued November 7, 8, 18S4.-Decided November 24,1884.

Where proceedings in rem are commenced in a State court and analogous proceedings in.rem in a court of the United States, against the same property,
exclusive jurisdiction for the purposes of its own suit is acquired by the
court which first takes possession of the res; and while acts of the other
court thereafter, necessary to preserve the existence of a statutory right,
may be supported, its other acts in assuming to proceed to judgment and
to dispose of the prcperty convey no title.
A derived title to the premises in suit through a seizure by officers of the
United States for violation of the internal revenue laws, and condemnation
and sale of the same in the Circuit Court of the United States: B derived
title to the same premises under judgment and decree in a State court to
enforce a mechanic's lien. The proceedings in the State court were commenced and prosecuted to judgment after the marshal had taken the
premises into his possession and custody under the proceedings in the Circui
Court: Held, That B did not hold the legal title of the premises as against
A claiming under the marshal's sale and the decree of the District Court.

This was an action of ejectment for the recovery of certain
real estate and the improvements thereon, situated in the City

HEIDRITTER v. ELIZABETH OIL-CLOTH CO.

295

Statement of Facts.
of Elizabeth, in N~ew Jersey, brought by the plaintiff in error
against the defendant in error in the Supreme Court of that
State and removed thence into the Circuit Court of the United
States on the ground that the case was one arising under the
Constitution and laws of the United States. The cause was
submitted to the court, the intervention of a jury having been
waived. The facts appeared by special findings of the court.
So far as material they were as follows:
Both parties claimed title under Charles L. Sicher, who, being the owner of the premises, commenced the erection thereon
of a building which he subsequently used as a distillery.
The plaintiff claimed under a deed from the sheriff of Union
County, in which the premises are situated, dated September
24, 1873, made to him as a purchaser at a sale under two special writs of fXe'i facias, issued upon two judgments against
Sieher, one in favor of August Ifeidritter for $1,711.22, signed
June 14, 1873, the other in favor of Ferdinand Blancke for
$272.95, signed June 18, 1873.
The actions in which these judgments were severally rendered
were commenced, one on February 21, 1873, the other on March
15, 1873. They were in form actions of assumpsit,the declaration in each, however, containing additional averments, showing that they were brought to enforce mechanics' liens upon
the building and lot constituting the premises in controversy,
according to the provisions of an act of the legislature of New
Jersey of March 11, 1853, and the supplements thereto, the
premises. being specifically described and the accounts for labor
and materials on which the actions were founded being set out,
in the one case beginning June 21, 1872, in the other September
7, 1872. The respective claims for these liens had been filed,
pursuant to the statute, in the office of the clerk of the county,
one on February 21, 1873, the other on March 13, 1873.
This statute of New Jersey, Nixon's Digest (4th ed.), 571,
Revision of New Jersey, 668, provided for the enforcement of
the claim filed, agreeably to its provisions, upon any lien created
thereby by suit in a court of the county where such building is
situated, to be commenced by summons, in a prescribed form,
against the builder and owner of the land and building, con-

296"

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

taining a statement that the plaintiff claimed a building lien, for
the amount set forth, on the building and lands of the defendant, described as in the claim on file.
Two modes of service of this summons were specifically describedinthe aci: one was called actual service, meaning thereby
personal service on the defendant, or, if he cannot be found in
the State, by affixing a copy thereof on such building, "and
also by serving a copy on such defendant personally or by
leaving it at his residence ten days before its return." The
other was styled legal service, which was, in case the defendant resided out of the State, by affixing a copy on such building and sending a copy by mail, directed to him at the post
office nearest his residence, or, in case his residence was not
known to the plaintiff, then by affixing a copy to such building
and publishing it for four weeks in a newspaper circulating in
the county.
SThe judgment in the action, if for the plaintiff, in case the
defendant had been actually served with the summons, was to
be general, with costs, as in other cases; but when only legal
service of the summons had been made, judgment against the
owner and also against the builder "shall be specially for the
debt and costs to be made of the building and lands in the declaration described; and, in case no general judgment is given
against the builder, such proceedings or recovery shall be no
bar to any suit for the debt, except for the part thereof actually
rhade under such recovery." When the builder and owner
were distinct persons, they might make separate defences,
the former that h'e did not owe the money, the latter, that the
building and land were not liable to the debt; "and, in such
case, it shall be necessary for the plaintiff, to entitle him to
judgment against the house and lands, to prove that the provisions of this act, requisite to constitute such lien, have been
complied with."
"When judgment is entered generally against the builder, a
writ of fXeri facias may issue thereon as in other cases; and
when judgment shall be against the building and lands, a special
writ of ierifaciasmay issue to make the amount recovered by
sale of the building and lands; and when both a general and

HEIDRITTER v. ELIZABETH OIL-CLOTH CO.

297

Statement of Facts.
special judgment shall be given, both writs may be issued,
either separately, or combined in one writ." It was furthef
provided that, under such special jerfacias,the sheriff should
advertise, sell, and convey said building and lot in the same
levied upon for"
manner as directed by law in case of lands
debt, and that the sheriff's deed should convey to the purchaser
the estate of the owner in the lands and in the buildings which
he had at any time after the commencement of the building,
subject to all mortgages and other encumbrances created and
recorded or registered prior thereto. The building upon the
premises in controversy was commenced June 25, 1872, from
which time, it is conceded, the mechanics' liens dated, to enforce which the judgments were rendered.
It appears that the summons in the two cases were legally,
but not actually, served upon Sieher, his residence not being
known to the plaintiff, by affixing a copy thereof to the building, and by a publication for four weeks of a copy.
At the times when these claims for mechanics' liens were
filed in the office of the county clerk, and when the actions
were commenced to enforce them, the premises in controversy
were in the actual custody and possession of the United States
marshal for the District of New Jersey under the following
circumstances.
The buildings erected by Sicher on the premises in controversy were intended for and were used by him as a distillery,
when, on January 24, 1873, they, with the contents of the
buildings, were seizec by the collector of internal revenue for
the Third Collection District of New Jersey, for a forfeiture incurred under the laws of the 'United States. On February 4,
1873, an information to enforce that forfeiture was filed in the
District Court of the United States for the District of New
Jersey, and on February 5,1873, process of attachment was
issued to the marshal, who made return of the same on February 19, 1873, that he had taken possession of the property
therein named, includ1ing the premises in controversy. On
February 25, 1873, a sentence of condemnation and forfeiture
to the United States was passed, and a writ of execution
ordered to issue to sell the same. On March 10th following

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

that writ was issued, and was returned June 9, 1873, by the
marshal, with the indorsement thereon that he had sold the
premises to one Edward G. Brown. The proceeds of the sale,
after payment of costs, were ordered to be paid to the collector
of internal revenue for the use of the United States, and the
marshal, on Mlay 29, 1873, executed and delivered a deed to the
purchaser, conveying the lands and tenements in fee simple.
The sale took place on -May22, 1873. The defendants in error,
by mesne conveyances, acquired the title of the purchaser at
this sale.
Bills of exceptions were duly taken to the rulings of the
court, and judgment was rendered for the defendant below.
See 6 Fed. Rep. 138. The plaintiff below sued out this writ of
error to reverse that judgment.
ill. John R. Emery and Xr. E7ward A. Day for plaintiff
in error contended that the title acquired by a purchaser under
an execution issued on a judgment secured under a mechanics'
lien, general as against the owner and special as against the
land, is as to the estate which the owner had when the building was begun (i. e., when the excavations were commenced),
paramount as to subsequent transfers and encumbrances; and
cited Tompkins v. Horton, 10 C. E. Greene (25 N. J. Eq.) 284;
-In re Dey, 9 Blatchford, 285 ; ii1utual Beneft Life Ins. Co. v.
]owand, 11 C. E. Greene (26 N.J. Eq.) 389; Jacobus v..3ltual
BeneXt Life Ins. Co., 12 C. E. Greene (27 N.J. Eq.) 604. Under
the New Jersey proceeding the United States could not be made
party defendant, because the title of the United Stateswas not
complete until a judicial determination, although it was true
that it then reverted to the commission of the offence. Burroughs on Taxation, 579 ; Cooley on Taxation, 318; Bennett v.
The internal revenue laws of the
Hunter, 9 Wall. 326.
United States forfeit only (1) all right, title and interest therein
of the offending person; and (2) all right, title and interest
therein of every person who, having the right or power to control the use of the property, has knowingly suffered or permitted the land to be used for a distillery. While they forfeit
personal property witb',ut regard to ownership, they quality

HEIDRITTER v. ELIZABETH OIL-CLOTH CO. 299
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the forfeiture imposed upon real estate. United States v. Distillety at Sfpring Valley, 11 Blatchford, 255; United States v.
One Copper Still, 8 Bissell, 270. A forfeiture can only be ap,plied to those cases in which the means which the statute provides for preventing the forfeiture can be employed by the
person whose property or interest in it would otherwise be
forfeited. Peiscb v. Ware, 4 Cranch, 347; United States v. 33
Barrels of Spirits, 1 Lowell, 239. If, for the fault of the distillers, the interest of other innocent persons in the property
may be forfeited, the law is open to the objection of unconstitutionality, in that such interest is taken away without hearing, without trial, and without due process of law. Confiscation
Cases, 20 Wall. 92, 114. The Mary, 9 Cranch, 126; People v.
Sopc', 7 N. Y. (3 Selden), 428. Statutes will not be understood
to forfeit property except for fault of the ow~ner or his agent,
unless such construction is unavoidable. Potter's Dwarris, 251;
Peisch v. Ware, 4 Oranch, 347. See also for the construction
contended for, United States v. Ernlhalt,105 U. S. 414; United
States v. 31aekoy, 2 Dillon, 299. An interest under a mechanic's
lien was not the subject of forfeiture. Confiseation Cases, 20
Wall. 92, note on claims of MKaruard, page 114. See also
XceiVegh v. United States, 11 Wall. 259; 3Iillerv. UnitedStates,
Ib. 268, 292; Tyler v. Defrees, Ib. 331; B own v. .[ennedy,
15 Wall. 591; Confiseatio; Cases, 20 Wall. 92, 117; Semmes v.
United States, 91 U. S. 21 ; Osborn v. United States, Id. 474;
Wallach v. Van Riewick, 92 U. S.202; Windsor v..Mo eigh,
93 U. S.274; Pike v. WVassell, 94- U. S. 711; Burbak-v. Con'ad,96 U. S.291; Burbank v. Semmes, 99 U. S.138 ; .French
v. Wade, 102 U. S. 132; Waples v. Rays, 108 U. S. 6; Waples v. United States, 110 U. S. 630. Counsel further contended that the proceedings in the United States courts did
not aim to reach the mechanics' liens; that under the pleadings a valid judgment could not be rendered for forfeiture of
the estate on which the distillery stood; and that the plaintiff
in error was not concluded by the decree.
.-. John F. Dillon and .M. J. T. Richards for defendant
in error.

"300

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. JusTIcE .MLTTirEws delivered the opinion of the court.
He stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
The information alleged violations of numerous sections of
the internal revenue laws, which it is not necessary to mention
further than to say, that on its face it disclosed a case for a
forfeiture under those laws of the property described in it,
clearly within the jurisdiction of the court.
The precise question thus arising, is, whether the plaintiff in
error acquired the legal title to the premises in controversy, by
virtue of the deed from the sheriff of Union County, and the
judgments and proceedings on which it was based.
These proceedings, so far as against the owner of the property they undertook to enforce the plaintiff's claim as a lien
upon his interest in it, were in the nature of proceedings in
rem, though not so, perhaps, in technical strictness, for they
did not profess to conclude all the world. Such, particularly,
was their nature in the cases under consideration, where the
owner and builder were one person, and he was served with
process only constructively, not actually, being presumably
without the jurisdiction of the court. It was declared so to be
in Gordon. v. Torrey, 2 McCarter (15 K. J. Eq.) 112.
"The proceeding in such cases," said Mr. Justice Field, delivering the opinion of the court in Pennoyer v. .N-ef,95 U. S.
714, 730, "though in the form of a personal action, has been
uniformly treated, where service was not obtained and the
party did not voluntarily appear, as effectual and binding
merely as a proceeding in ren, and as having no operation
beyond the dispositionof the property, or some interest therein.
And the reason assigned for this conclusion has been that
which we have already stated, that the tribunals of one State
have no jurisdiction over persons beyond its limits, and can
inquire only into their obligations to its citizens when exercising its conceded jurisdiction over their property within its
limits."
That jurisdiction is called into exercise judicially and attaches, as elsewhere stated in the same opinion (p. 727), "where
property is once brought under the control of the court by seizure or.some equivalent act. The law assumes that property

HIEIDRITTER ~v ELIZABETH OIL-CLOTH CO.

301

Opinion of the Court.
is always in the possession of its owner in person or by agent;
and it proceeds upon the theory that its seizure will inform him
not only that it is taken into the custody of the court, but that
he must look to any proceedings authorized by law upon such
seizure for its condemnation and sale. Such service may also
be sufficient in cases where the object of the action is to reach
and dispose of property in the State, or of some interest therein, by enforcing a contract or lien respecting the same, or to
partition it among different owners, or, where, the public is a
party, to condemn and appropriate it for a public purpose. In
other words, such service may answer in all actions which are
substantially proceedings ii rern."
In Cooper v. Reynolds, 10 Wall. 308, 318, it is said by :Mr.
Justice Miller, delivering the opinion of the court, that, in such
cases, where there is no appearance of the defendant and no
service of process on him, "the case becomes, in its essential
nature, a proceeding ib rem," and that (p. 317), "while the
general rule in regard to jurisdiction in 'em requires an actual
seizure and possession of the 'es by the officer of the court,
such jurisdiction may be acquired by acts which are of equivalent import and which stand for and represent the dominion
of the court over the thing and in effect subject it to the control of the court."
This may be by the levy of a writ, or the mere bringing of
a suit. "It is immaterial," said this court hy MhIr. Justice
McLean, in Boswell's LTessee v. Otis, 9 How. 336, "whether
the proceeding against the property be by an attachment or
bill in chancery. It must be substantially a proceeding in rem."
Indeed, so far as the *proceedings in question sought to bind
the land by enforcing the plaintiff's claim as a specific lien
thereon, and to dispose of the premises in satisfaction thereof
by a sale, they were substantially in 'em, whether there was
personal or merely constructive service of process upon the defendant owner. The kind of process and mode of service could
be material only with reference to the nature of the judgment.
He could be bound personally only by his coming or being
brought personally within the jurisdiction of the court. But
the land might be bound, without actual service of process

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

upon the owner, in cases where the only object of the proceeding was to enforce a claim against it specifically, of a nature
to bind the title. In such cases the land itself must be drawn
within the jurisdiction of the court by some assertion of its
control and pover over it. This, as we have seen, is ordinarily
done by actual seizure, but may be done by the mere bringing
of the suit in which the claim is sought to be enforced, which
may by law be equivalent to a seizure, being the open and
public exercise of dominion over it for the purposes of the suit.
When, however, the proceedings were begun for the enforcemeit of the mechanics' liens against the premises in controversy, by the issuing of the summons and the filing of the
declaration, the property over which the State court sought to
exert its jurisdiction was in the actual custody "and possession
of the District Court of the United States for 'the District of
1New Jersey. It had been seized by an officer of the United
States for an alleged offence against its laws. It was proceeded against as forfeited to the United States, and to declare
and enforce that forfeiture judicially, it had been taken possession of by the court. This proceeding was undoubtedly in rem,
and it is quite immaterial whether the law authorized an absolute forfeiture of the res, including all interests and estates in it,
so as to overreach antecedent liens and adverse claims, or only
of the actual interest of the owner charged with the violations
-of law at the time of the alleged offences. In either view, and
for either purpose, the court had taken possession of the prop.erty itself, and that possession was necessarily exclusive. The
#es was thereby drawn into the exclusive jurisdiction and dominion of the United States; and, for the purposes of that suit,
it was, at the same time, withdrawn from the jurisdiction of the
courts of New Jersey. Any proceeding against it, involving
tlie control and disposition of it, in the latter, while in that
condition, was as if it were a proceeding against property in
another State. It was vain, nugatory, and void, and as against
the proceedings and judgment of the District Court of the
United States, and those claiming under them, was without
effect.
In this aspect, the case is directly within the rule of decision

HEIDRITTER v. ELIZABETH OIL.CLOTH CO.

303

Opinion of the Court.

established in TF76wall v. Sampson, 14 How. 52. That was a
controversy as to the title to real estate, one party claiming
under a sale upon execution, issued on judgments rendered in
the Circuit Court of the United States, the property being at
the tine of this sale in the possession of a receiver of a State
court, under whose subsequent decree and sale the defendant
claimed title. It is a significant fact, in that case, that, at the
time of the appointment of the receiver by the State court,
the executions upon the judgments had been issued and levied,
and were a subsisting lien upon the premises. It was said in
that case by Mr. Justice Nelson, delivering the opinion of the
court: "It has been argued that a sale of the premises on execution, and purchase, occasioned no interference with the possession of the receiver, and hence no contempt of the authority
of the court, and that the sale, therefore, in such a case should
be upheld. But, conceding the proceedings did not disturb the
possession of the receiver, the argument does not meet the objection. The property is a fund in court to abide the event of
the litigation, and to be applied to the payment of the judgment creditor who has filed his bill to remove impedinients in
the way of his execution. If he has succeeded in establishing
his right to the application of any portion of the fund, it is the
duty of the court to see that such application is made. And,
in order to effect this, the court must administer it i(lepen(1ently of any\ rights acquired by. third persons pendin-g the
litigation. Otherwise the whole fund may have passed ,,ut of
its hands before the final decree, and the litigation bec ,me
fruitless." And the conclusion was: "It is sufficient to say
that the salo under the judgment, pending the equity suit., and
while the court was in possession of the estate, without the
leave of the court, was illegal and void."
And the same conclusion must prevail here, for although the
sale under the judgments in the State court was not made until
after the property had passed from the possession of the Dis-.
trict Court by delivery to the l)urchaser at the sale under the
decree, yet, the initial step on which the sheriff'.s sale depende, I
-the commencement of the proceedings to enforA,' the we-chanic's lien, asserting the jurisdiction and control of the State

OCTOBER TERM, i884.
qpinion of the Court.

court over the property sold-took place when that property
was in the exclusive custody and control of the District Court:
and, by reason .of its prosecution to a sale, was an invasion of
the jurisdiction of that court. No stress is laid on the fact,
that notice of the prodeeding, by affixing a copy of the summons upon the building, which was required by the statute,
could only be made by an actual entry by the sheriff upon the
property, to that extent disturbing the possession of the marshal,,because the same result, in our opinion, would have
followed, if no such notice had been required or given. The
substantial violation of the jurisdiction of the District Court
consisted, in the control over the property in its possession, assumed and asserted, in commencing the proceedings to enforce
against it the lien claimed by the plaintiffs in those actions,
prosecuting them to .judgment and consummating them by
a sale. The principle applied in TFiwall v. Sampson, 'ubi
&upra,must be regarded as firmly established in the decisions
of this court. It has been often approved and confirmed.
Peale v. Pki!pps, 14 How. 368; Hagan 9.Li}ca, 10 Pet. 400;
Williams v. Benedict, 8 How. 107; Pullian v. Osborne, 17
How. 4,71; Taylor v. Carryl,. 20 How. 583; Yonley v. Lavender, 21 Wall. 276; People's Bank- v. Calhoun, 102 U. S. 256;
Barton v. Barbour, 104 U. S.126; Clvell v. _feyr an, 111 U.
S. 176.
But it is to be understood, as a qualification of what has been
said, that we do not mean to decide that the plaintiffs in the
actions in the State court might not, without prejudice to the
jurisdiction of the District Court, commence their actions, so
far as that was a step required by the mechanics' lien law of
New Jersey, for the mere purpose of fixing and preserving their
rights to a lien, provided, always, they did not prosecute their
actions to a sale and disposition of the property, which, by relation, would have the effect of avoiding the jurisdiction of the
District Court under its seizure. That was the course, under
similar circumstances, adopted and sanctioned by the Supreme
Judicial Court of Massachusetts in Clifton v.. Foster, 103 Mass.
233, where a petition to enforce a mechanic's lien, which, by
statute, ilwas necessary to file within a fixed time in order to

HEIDRITTER v. ELIZABETH OIL-CLOTH CO.

305

Opinion of the Court.
preserve it, was permitted to be filed after the property, by the
bankruptcy of the owner, had passed into the custody of the
District Court, but all further proceedings thereon were stayed
to await the action of that court in the bankruptcy proceedings, on the ground that such seasonable filing was necessary
to keep the lien alive, and that, without further proceedings it
could not be construed as an encroachment upon the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court. The distinction seems to us reasonable and just, and is 'supported by the decisions in Williams
v. Bene b t, 8 How. 107, and Yonley V. 1avender, 21 Wall.
276. In conformity)with it, we refrain from pronouncing the
proceeding in the State court. of New Jersey invalid, so far as
they do not affect the legal title of the purchaser at the marsbal's sale to the premises in controversy. We decide, notthat
they are invalid for the purpose of declaring and establishing
the lien, but that they are not good for the purpose of enforcing
it, as was attempted, by a sale and conveyance of the premises
in controversy.
This view, though decisive of the case and resulting in the
affirmance of the judgment of the Circuit Court, proceeds upon assumptions the most favorable which can be indulged to the plaintiff in error. It is nreiely an application of the familiar and necessary rule, so often applied, which governs the relation of courts
of concurrent jurisdiction, where, as is the case here, it concerns
those of a State and of the United States, constituted by the
authority of distinct governments, though exercising jurisdiction over the same territory. That rule has no reference to the
supremacy of one tribunal over the other, nor to the superiority in rank of the respective tlaims, in behalf of which the conflijting jurisdictions are invoked. It simply requires, as a matter of necessity, and, therefore, of comity, that when the object
of the action requires the control and dominion of the property
involved in the litigati'n; that court which first acquires possession, or that dominion which is equivalent, draws to itself
the exclusive right to dispose of it, for the purposes of its jurisdiction. It was in accordance with this principle that in Pulliam v. Osbo'ne, 17 How. 471, this court confirmed the legal
title of land to a purchaser under an execution upon a judgVOL. cx-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

ment rendered in a State court, because first actually levied as
against one claiming under an execution out of the District
Court of the United States, which had a priority of lien by reasonWe,
of having
been first issued.
therefore,
now determine that the plaintiff in error
does
not hold the legal title of the premises in controversy, as against
the defendant in error, claiming under the marshal's sale and
the decree of the District Court; and we decide nothing beyond
that. The other questions, argued at the bar-whether the
forfeiture decreed by the District Court operated to transfer
the whole title of the premises against all claimants; whether,
if it operated only upon the interest of the owner at the time
the alleged offences were committed, subject to all valid liens
then existing, nevertheless, those liens were transferred to the
proceeds of the sale, and the claimants were bound at their
peril to intervene in their own behalf in that proceeding; or,
whether the sale, as made, passed the legal title, subject to all
cxisting liens, including those sought ineffectually to be enforced
by the proceedings under which the plaintiff in error*claims;
and whether, in that event, these may be enforced against the
laud or present owners, and if so, in what mode-we have
passed by without considering, as not necessary to the decision
of the case.
The judgment of the Circuit Court isqaffrmed.

EAST TEIN-ESSEE, VIRGINIA .& GEORGIA RAILROAD CO. v. SOUTHERN TELEGRAPH COMPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
MIDDLE DISTRICT OF AL A AIA.
Submitted November 10, 1 8A.-Decided November24, 16.

Rilton v. Diccin.son, 108 U. S. 16, again affirmed.
The Circuit Courts of the United States, taking jurisdiction of a proceeding to
enforce a remedy given by a State statute, can act only in accordance with
the statute creating the remedy, and are possessed only of the powers con-

