BUENA VISTA COUNTY v. I. F. & S. C. RR. CO.

165

. Syllabus.

Co., 9 WalL 461, 467; Insurance Co. v. Folsom, 18 Wall. 237,
249; .Retzer v. Wood, 109 U. S. 185; and, as such special finding
covers all the issues raised by the pleadings, this court has the
power, under ยง 701 of the Revised Statutes, to direct such
judgment to be entered as the special finding requires. In
cases like the present one, the proper practice is to direct a
judgment for the defendant, instead of awarding a new trial.
lYational Bank v. In"urance Co., 95 13. S. 673, 679; Farfield
v. County qf Gallatin, 100 U. S. 47; TWright v. Blakeslee, 101
U. S. 174; People's Bank v. 3ational Bank, 101 U. S. 181;
Warnock v. Davis, 104 U. S. 775; Zincoln v. French, 105 U.
S. 614; Ottowa v. Carey, 108 U. S. 110; _0irkbridev. Lafayette Co., 108 U. S. 208; ]etzer v. Wood, 109 U. S. 185; Canada
Southern, RailroadCo. v. Gebhard,109 U. S. 527; East St. Louis
v. Zebley, 110 U. S. 321. The trial being without error, if the
finding is sufficient, the same judgment is to be given as would
be given on a special verdict. Where the special finding embraces only a part of the issues, as in _Ex' ate .French, 91 U.
S. 423, a different rule prevails. Accordingly,
The Judgmaent of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the case
k remanded to that court, with direction to enter a judgment for the plaintif,on, bondio.78,for $500, withproper
interest thereon, less a credit on. said bond, of $290, of the
date of .Yovember 8, 1875; and, as to the other bonds sued
on, to enter ajudgmentfor the defendant, with costs.

BUENA VISTA COUNTY v. IOWA FALLS & SIOUX
CITY RAILROAD COMPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE'S UPRE_ E

COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.

Argued October 31, 188.-Decide. November 10, 1884.

The right of review of the official acts of the Commissioner of the Land Office
conferred upon the Secretary of the Interior by general laws extends to
acts of the Commissioner under the act of March 5, 1872, 17 Stat. 37, directing him to receive and examine selections of swamp lands in Iowa, and allow
or disallow the same.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.
Thefactsin this case do not estop the defendant in error from objecting to the list
of swamp lands in Buena Vista County, which was filed by the agent
of the county in the office of the Surveyor-General in Iowa in accordance
-with provisions of a law of that State.

This suit in equity was commenced by the plaintiff in error,
who was plaintiff below, in the District Court of Buena Vista
County, in the State of Iowa, for the purpose of establishiig
its equitable title in fee simple to five hundred and fifty-three
forty-acre tracts of land, lying within its limits, and seeking a
conveyance of the legal title thereto, held by the defendant.
It was claimed that the lands in questior were granted by
the Swamp-land Act of September 28, 1850, 9 Stat. 519, to
the State of Iowa; all such lands having been granted by the
State by an act passed January 13, 1853, to the counties respectively in which the same were situated.
The bill of complaint further alleged as follows:
'IV. That each and every parcel of said lands was .of the
description specified in said act of Congress at the date of the
passage thereof; that afterwards, to wit, in the year eighteen
hundred and fifty-nine, the plaintiff caused a list of said lands
to be made in legal subdivisions in all respects in accordance
with the requirements of the said act of Congress and the rules
and regulations of the General Land Office of the United States;
that the said list, with the proper proof thereunto attached, was
duly filed in the office of the Secretary of State of the State of
Iowa on or about the first day of January, 1860, and was thereafter duly recorded in the office of the register of the State
land office, and 'hereafter fied in the office of the SurveyorGeneral of the United States for the State of Iowa, and thereafter, to wit, in the month of January, 1866, the same was duly
filed in the office of the Commissioner of the General Land
Office of the 'United States, where it has ever sin~e remained
on file.
"1VI. That from timg to time, since the fiing of said list in
said last.mentioned office, the plaintiff has applied to the said
Commissioner of the General Land Office to examine a-d
pass upon the sufficiency thereof and to allow the same; that
prior to the 7th day of July, 1875, it was wholly unable to

]BUENA VISTA COUNTY v. I. F. & S. C. RR. CO.

167

Statement of Facts.

obtain any hearing or decision thereon. That the defendant,
by its agents and attorneys, appeared before said commissioner
and resisted said application, and the said refusal to take up and
examine said list was wholly by reason of defendant's resistance
thereto and its claim to said lands. That upon the day last
aforesaid the said Commissioner decidcd to allow plaintiff's said
list; that defendant appealed from said decision to the Secretary of the Interior, who, upon the 30th day of August, 1876,
reversed the decision of said Commissioner, and directed him
to take no further proceedings upon plaintiff's application
for the examination and allowance of said list.
"VII. Plaintiff further says that upon .the 5th day of July,
1871, the Governor of the State of Iowa, -without being in any
way authorized so to do, issued to the defendant a patent for
a part of said lands, which said patent is now of record in the
office of the register of the land office of the said State, at page
two hundred and fifty-two of record 'A, Miscellaneous Conveyances.' That on the 10th day of August, of said year, he
issued a patent to said defendant for all the remaining lands
aforesaid, which is recorded in the book aforesaid at page two
hundred and eighty-three. That both of said patents are recorded in the office of the recorder of deeds for said county of
Buena Vista. That said patents are a cloud upon the title of
tho plaintiff and wholly prevent it from making sale of its said
lands, and greatly impair the value of its property therein."
The defendant claimed title to the lands in dispute in itself,
and denied the plaintiff's equitable title and the material facts
upon which it was based.
The defendant's title was derived through a grant made by
an act of Congress, passed May 15, 1856, to the State of
Iowa, to aid in the construction of certain railroads, which was
accepted by the State and by it granted to a company whose
line was located through Buena Vista County, whereby the
limits of the grant were determined so as to embrace the lands
described in the plaintiff's petition. Thereafter, on February
28, 1858, the same were certified by the Secretary of the Interior
to the State as inuring to it under said grant, and were accepted
by it and passed by subsequent legislative grants from the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

State to the defendant in error, to whom patents for the land
were issied in the name of the State by the governor. It was
not denied, however, that, if the lands in controversy passed
by the swamp-land grant of 1850, they were excepted out of
the subsequent railroad grant, which is the foundation of the
defendant's title.
The tern-s of the act of Congress of September 28, 1850,
granted to the several States within which they were situated
"the whole of those swamp and overflowed lands, made thereby
unfit for cultivation, which shall remain unsold at the passage
of this act." It was thereby made the duty of the Secretary of
the Interior, as soon as practicable after the passage of the act,
'to make out an accurate list and plats of the lands described as
aforesaid and tr~ansmit the same to the governor of. the State,
and at his request to issue a patent to the State therefor; but
"in making out a list and plat of the land aforesaid all legal
subdivisions, the greater part of which is wet and unfit for cultivation, shall be included in said list and plats; but when the
greater part of a subdivision is not of that character, the whole
of it shall be excluded therefrom." The legal subdivisions contemplated by the law were forty-acre tracts.
The first instructions issued by the Commissioner of the General Land Office, on November 21, 1850, in execution of this
act, directed the Surveyors-General to make out lists of the
lands in each State falling within the description of the grant,
based upon the notes of surveys in their offices, provided the
authorities of the States were willing to adopt them; "if not,
and those authorities furnish you satisfactory evidence that any
lands are of the character embraced by the grant, you will so
report them." Provision was made for surveys to be made to
determine the boundaries of the swamp or overflowed lands,
where the State authorities concluded to have them made, and
it was added that "the affidavits of the county surveyor, and
other respectable persons, that they understand and have examined the lines, and that the lands bounded by lines thus examined, and particufarly designated in the affidavit, are of the
character embraced by the law, should be sufficient. The line
oi boundary of the overflow that renders the land unfit for

BUENA VISTA COUNTY v. I. F. & S. C. RR. CO.

169

Statement of Facts.
regular cultivation may be adopted as that which regulates the
grant." The lists were to be made out on forms prescribed for
that purpose, and transmitted to the department, the lands selected reserved from sale, and the selections, when approved by
the Secretary of the Interior, were directed to be entered by
the register as granted to the State.
The State of Iowa adopted the alternative of making its own
designations of lands, claimed by it as corresponding to the
description of the grant, and passed, at different times, laws
directing by whom they should be made. A statute of 1853 required a full and complete return of the examination and survey
of the swamp and overflowed lands, when completed by the
county surveyor or other person appointed for that purpose, to
be forwarded to the Secretary of State, whose duty it was to
report the same to the Surveyor-General.
A subsequent statute, passed January 25, 1855, authorized
the governor to adopt such measw'es as to him might seem expedient to provide for the selection of the swamp lands of the
State, and to secure the title thereto. The governor accordingly issued circulars, one in 1855 and one in 1858, to the
county judge of the several counties, requesting the selection to
be made in his county by the county surveyor or other agent,
the lists thereof to be forwarded to the Surveyor-General or to
the Secretary of State of Iowa, to be by him forwarded to the
proper department for recognition and approval. The act of
January 13, 1853, was carried into the Revised Statutes of
the State of 1860, as follows:
"SrrIoN 927. In all those counties where the county surveyor has made no examinations and reports of the swamp
lands within his county, in compliance with the instructions
from the governor, the county court shall, at the next regular
term thereof, after the taking effect of this act, appoint some
competent person, who shall, as soon as may be thereafter,
after having been duly sworn for that purpose, proceed to examine said lands and make due reports and plats, upon which
the topography of the country shall be carefully noted, and
the places where drains or levees ought to be made marked on
mid plats, to the county courts respectively, which courts shall

170

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

transmit to the proper officers lists of all said swamp lands in each
of the counties, in order to procure the proper recognition of
the same on the part of the United States, which lists, after an
acknowledgment of the same by the general government, shall
be recorded in a well-bound book provided for that purpose,
and filed among the records of the county court."
On the trial of the cause, in the District Court of Buena
Vista County, the plaintiff offered in evidence a paper, claimed
to be a certified copy of plaintiff's list of swamp-land selections and accompanying proofs. It was headed, "A list of the
swamp and overflowed lands situated in the county of Buena
Vista and State of Iowa." Then followed a list containing a
description, among others of all. the lands described in the
plaintiff's original petition or complaint. To this were annexed
affidavits by George S. IRingland, W. H. Hait, and Zachariah
Tucker, stating that, having been appointed by the county
judge of Buena Vista County to select the swamp and overflowed lands in said county, "do solemnly swear that we understand and have examined the lines bounding each of the
tracts of land particularly designated in the foregoing list, and
we do further solemnly swear that the greater part of each and
every forty-acre tract or smallest legal subdivision therein
named is swamp and overflowed land, and of the character
embraced in the act of Congress approved the twenty-eighth
day of September, 1850." And then appeared the following:
"STATE

OF

IowA,

Black Hawk County,

}

.

"I, J. W Tucker, late county judge of Buena Vista County, in
the State of Iowa, do solemnly swear that George S. Ringland,
Zachariah Tucker, and W. H. Ilait were duly appointed by me
while county judge of said county of said Buena Vista as
agents to select the swamp and overflowed lands in Buena
NVista County aforesaid, and that the agents aforesaid are
veliable and responsible men; and I do further swear that the
within is .the original report of said agents, and that the correctness of the report has been sworn to by the said agents, as
will more fully appear by the affidavits hereto attached; the

BUENA VISTA COUNTY v. I F. & S.'C. RR. CO. 171
Statement of Facts.

reason that I do not certify said report is that since employing
said agents I have removed from said county of Buena Vista
to the county of Black Hawk,in said State; so help me God.
J. W. Tuc=R."

"Sworn to and subscribed before me this twenty-sixth day of
December, A.D. 1859. Witness, J. B. Severance, clerk of the
District Court of Black Hawk County, Iowa, and tae seal of
said court affixed, this twenty-sixth day of December, A.D. 1859,
in said county and State.
[.s.]
"STATE OF IowA, STATE LAam OmOE.

"I hereby certify that the foregoing report of the swampland selections in Buena Vista County is recorded in this office
in book ' B,' pages one hundred and ninety-three to two hundred
and twentv-eight, inclusive.
J. B. MILLER, Register."
The introduction of this paper as evidence was objected to
by the defendant below on the several grounds that the persons appearing to have made the selections had not been appointed by the County Court of Buena Vista County; that
there were no plats accompanying it; that there was no
evidence of the appointment of the persons claiming to have
examined the lands; that the affidavit of J.W. Tucker was
not verified and was not competent evidence of the facts it
recites; that it was not shown that the said selections were
ever filed in the proper offices or were ever approved by any
officer of the State of Iowa or of the United States.
The paper, however, notwithstanding these objections, was
received in evidence; but no other proof was offered by the
plaintiff that. the lands in controversy were in fact swamp or
overflowed lands, so as to be unfit for cultivation within the
description of the act of Congress of September 28, 1850, at
the date of its passage.
The District Court rendered a judgment in favor of the
plaintiffs, and the whole case, upon the evidence, reduced to
writing and embodied in the record, was taken by appeal to
the Supreme Court of the State.
That court reversed the judgment of the District Court, on

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the .Court.

the ground that the list of lands on which it was based was improperly admitted in evidence, and rendered a judgment in favor
of the defendant, dismissing t1e plaintiff's petition.
To reverse that judgment this writ of error was prosecuted.
Ar. Galus7 a Parsonsfor plaintiff in error.
.A1. E. E. Bailey for defendant in error.
in. JusTIcE MAvriHws delivered the opinion of the court.
He stated the facts in the foregoing language and continued:
The groLids on which the Supreme Court of Iowa proceeded
are stated in its opinion, reported in 55 Iowa, 157, as follows:
"W'e think the evidence incompetent upon several grounds.
Section 929 of the revision requires that th6 agent shall be appointed by the County Court at a regular term thereof. The
proper evidence of the appointment is the production of the
record of the county court. If no record was made, or it has
been lost, the written appointment of the agent should be produced. If that is not availhble, and parol evidence of the fact
is proper, the evidence should be the testimony of witnesses
subject to cross-examination, and not the mere exparte affidavit
of the person making the appointment. This section does not
provide that the lists so made shall be evidence of any fact.
They are authorized to be made merely for the purpose of procuring the proper recognition of the same on the part of the
United States, and are in the nature of a claim or demand.
The lists are required to be transmitted by the County Court
to the proper officers for approval. The regulations and instructions of the department show that this person is the
Surveyor-General. There is no proof that the list in question
was ever transmitted to the Surveyor-General, or that he ever
had any opportunity of passing upon it. It is not shown that
this list ever came into the possession of the Commissioner of
tl;e General Land Office, or of the Secretary of the Interior, or
that -its correctness or validity was at .any time recognized by
any department of the government. It is true the- SurveyorGeneral, under instructions from the department of the govermnent, submitted forms of proof; but his instructions required

BUENA VISTA COUNTY v. I. F. & S. C. RR.CO. 173
Opinion of the Court.

that the proofs made should be transmitted to his office for approval, and to aid him in making tip the lists of lands embraced
in the grant, which is not shown by the evidence to have been
done. So far as the evidence shows, the list constitutes no
more than the claim of Buena Vista County, which has never
been recognized, approved, or allowed by any department
of the government. That At is exceedingly inaccurate and
unreliable is evidenced by the fact that,, while it embraces 551
tracts, the defendant established affirmatively and satisfactorily that 398 of them were high and dry, and fit for cultivation."
In opposition to this conclusion, it is now claimed by the
plaintiff in error that the list of lands in question was not only
erroneously ruled out as incompetent evidence, but that it ought
to have been accepted as sufficient and conclusive proof that
the lands embraced in it were within the grant of swamp
and overflowed lands, thus establishing the title of the plain.
tiff in error.
This proposition is supposed to be supported by facts connected with the history of this list, and the mode in which it has
been dealt with by the State authorities, the General Land
Office, and the representatives of the defendant in error,
whereby it is alleged an estoppel has arisen against the last
named to deny the legal effect claimed for it. These facts appear in official correspondence and documents which were admitted in evidence, showing the various efforts made on behalf
of the county to obtain a recognition of its claim by the Interior
Department and the decisions of that department which resulted
in their failure.
It thus appears that a list of selections for Buena Vista
County was delivered to the Surveyor-Gcneral, but not filed by
him in the General Land Office, but was rejected because the
lands were not both swamp and overflowed, the Commissioner
of the Public Lands having issued instructions that no lands
came within the grant except such as were both swamp and
overflowed. This ruling of the Commissioner, however, was reversed by the Secretary,'September 15, 1860. The BuenaVista
list remained m the office of the Surveyor-General, without

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

further action thereon, until that office, in 1866, was abolished,
when, with all other lists remaining there, it was removed to the
General Land Office. In 1869 an application was made by an
agent of the State, to the Commissioner of the Land Office, to
confirm the selections according to this list, which application
was rejected on the ground, "that the established method of
making swamp selections was through the Surveyor-General,
and that the list in question was never reported by.him, but
came before this office by the removal of the archives of the
Surveyor-General's office; that to receive them now would be
in the nature of new selections, from which we are barred by
the limitations of the act of iMarch 12, 1860, 12 Stat. 3." That
act required that all selections to be made thereafter from lands
already surveyed under the act of September 28, 1850, should
be made within two years from the adjournment of the legislature of the State at its next session after the date of the act.
Upon appeal to the Secretary of the Interior, this decision of
the Commissioner was affirmed, October 23, 181. On March
5, 1872, an act of Congress took effect, 17 Stat. 37, which
enacted, "That the Commissioner of the General Land Office
is hereby authorized and required to receive and examine the
selecions of swamp lands in Lucas, O'Brien, Dickinson, and
such other counties in the State of Iowa as formerly presented
their selections to the Surveyor-General of the district including that State, and allow or disallow said selections and indemnity provided for according to the acts of Congress in force
touching the same at the time such selections were made,
without prejudice t6 legal entries and rights of bonaftde settlers
under the homestead or pre-emption laws of, the United States
at the date of this act."
An application was made under this act, on April 21, 1875,
to the Commissioner of the General Land Office to adjust the
claims of the county for swamp lands on the basis of its lists
theretofore filed. Upon this application the Commissioner, on
July 7, 1875, notified the railroad companies, to which in the
mean time the lands in question had been certified as embraced
in the grant to them, that his office had no right to refuse to
make the investigation asked for "in regard to the swampy

BUENA VISTA COUNTY v. I. F. & S. C. RR. CO.

175

Opinion of the Court.
character of these lands, and if any of them are found, on ex,mination, to be of the description of lands granted to the State
as swamp and overflowed lands, it will be the duty of the Department to cause the same to be certified, and, on the request
of the governor, patented to the State as such." An appeal
was taken from this decision of the Commissioner to the Secretary of the Interior, on the ground that the subject-matter of
the proceeding, so far as it related to lands already certified to
the railroad companies, had passed from the jurisdiction of the
Department. On August 24, 1676, the Acting Secretary of the
Interior sustained the appeal and reversed the decision of the
Commissioner, being of opinion that no examination or certification of the lands in question should be made.
Upon this recital of the proceeding in the General Land
Office it is claifned for the plaintiff in error:
1. That by the terms of the act of March 5, 1872, the decision of the Commissioner was intended to be final, from
which no appeal would lie to the Secretary.
But there is nothing in the act which alters the relation
between the two officers as otherwise established, or puts the
decisions of the Commissioner, under that act, upon a footing
different from his other decisions. And if there were it would
make no difference, for the only decision made was that the
State of Iowa was entitled to the examination of the question
as to the lands claimed for Buena Vista County, whether they
were not swamp and overflowed lands. But he did not, in fact,
enter upon- the examination, and made no decision as to the
character of the lands. The statement casually made in the
letter of the Commissioner, that the State had long since claimed
the lands as swamp lands, and furnished Prinafacke evidence
that they -were of that character, certainly has no value, either
as evidence or adjudication, especially as he immediatly adds,
that "this claim has not yet been examined by this office, and
until it is so examined and either rejected or approved, the duty
of this Department is not performed."
2. It is further claimed by the plaintiff in error, that the defendant having notice of its application to the Land Department of its claim, based upon the list in question, and having

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

objected to its consideration solely on the ground that the Department had no jurisdiction to entertain it, which objection
prevailed, is now estopped from making in any other form, any
other objection to the list itself, or to the character of the lands
described in it.
But this claim is equally without foundation. The defend- ant in error,. if it could be considered as a party to the proceeding in the Land Office, contested its jurisdiction, as it had
the right to do; and, having prevailed on that point, cannot be
charged with waiving other objections it was. not called on to
make. If the Department had decided to entertain the claim,
the inquiry would have been open, upon evidence from both
parties, as to the actual character of the lands in question at
the date of the swamp-land grant of September 28, 1850; and
the Department would, in that event, have decided the question
of fact according to the weight of the evidence adduced by
both parties bearing upon it.
The very theory of the case of the plaintiff in error is, that,
because the officers of the Land Department have neglected or
refused to perform their duty in determining the question of
fact on which the validity of its claim depends, it has an equity
to require the iivestigation to be made in a court of justice,
which ought to have been made by them, so that if, in point
of fact, the lands claimed passed under the terms of the grant,
the legal title wrongfully granted to the defendant may be decreed to it.. According to the principle stated in the case of the
Rail'oad Co. v. &naith, 9 Wall. 95, the same evidence which
might have been, required in the Land Office would be necessaryto establish the plaintiffs claim. in a court of equity, which
would noG decree the defendant to convey to the plaintiff the
legal title, unless clearly satisfied, by full proof of the disputed fa ct, that the lands in controversy were swamp and overflowed lands at the date of the act of Congress of September
28, 1850.
The plaintiff in error did not choose to go into a trial of that
issue, and rested its case simply upon the list purporting to be
the selection on behalf of the county, of its swamp and overflowed lands. That instrument had no value as evidence, as to

EX PARTE VIRGINIA COMMISSIONERS.
Statement of Facts.

the only matter in issue, for the reasons given by the Supreme
Court of Iowa.
Other errors are assigned upon the ,ecora, relating, however,
to matters of pleading and practice under the laws of the State,
which, as they involve no federal question, are not proper for
our consideration.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Iowa is accordingly
.A

'TX PARTE VIRGINIA COMISSIOINERS.
DRIGINAL.
Submitted October 27, 1S84.-Decided November 10, 18S4.

A writ of mandamus is- not ordinarily granted when the party alleging the

grievance has another adequate remedy, and that remedy has not been exhausted.

This was a motion for a rule to show cause why a writ of
mandamus should not issue. The motion shuwed that the petitioners in their public official capacities constituted the Commissioners of the Sinking Fund of the State of Virginia; that
in a cause pending before the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of. Virginia, a peremptory mandamus had been ordered, requiring them to give to the plaintiff in that cause or his attorney of record '"in exchange therefor dollar for dollar coupon bonds under the act of the General
Assembly of the State of Virginia, approved February 14, 1882,
commonly knoun as the Pliddleberger Debt Law ;" that the
court below certified that "it was shown by the evidence that
the matter in dispute in this cause exceeds, exclusive of costs, the
value of $500, and is less than the value of $5,000 ;" that the
amount of the coupons so directed to be exchanged was in fact
$22,716; that the said certificate was inconsistent with the
judgment and must bi regarded as surplusage; that the judges
of the court below by an order entered of record, refused to
allow the petitioners a writ of error to said judgment; and that
VOL. cxII-12

