423

RICHARDSON v. TRAYER.
Opinion of the Court.

The decree of the court below is rev~rsecd andthe case remanded,
with directions to enter a decree adiudging that the title to
the lands in contrversy passed to the jolaintiff undce' the
acts of Comre,8 of 1862 and 1864; and that the defendant
execute to the plaintifa conveycnce of its claim and interest therein.

RICHARDSON v. TRAVER.
"PEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted November 14, IE.-Decided December 8,184.

H & 31, being owners in common of a tract of land covered by a mortgage to
D, from whom they purchased, agreed to partition, H taking tract 1, T1taking tract 2, and tract 3 being subdivided between them. Il agreed to assame the mortgage tb D, and that H should take his portion free from the
encumbrance. 31 sold his interest to Y, who borrowed from R through his
agents to make the purchase, mortgaged his interest in tract 2 to secure the
money borrowed, and agreed to apply the money borrowed to obtain a release of tract 2 from the mortgage. Instead of doing it hc obtained with it
a release of tract 3. Subsequently with money obtained from sale of lots
in tract 3, and with other money advanced by them, R's agents acquired
the notes secured by his mortgage : .eld, Thatunder all the circumstances
of this case, this was to be regarded as a payment of the mortgage notes, and
that R as against H was not entitled to be subrogated in the place of D, with
the right to enforce the mortgage against tract 2.

This was an appeal from. a decree in equity of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois. The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion
of the court.
31r. FredericC. Ingalls for appellant.
.31'. A. . cCoy for appellee.
the court.
The facts, as shown by the testimony in this. case, are these:
On or about the 19th of December, 1870,Henry J. Traver, the
appellee, and Michael Traver, his brother, bought of John
MRa. CHIEF JusTiE WAITE delivered the opinion of

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

Dickson a tract of land in the city of Chicago, containing
about sixteen acres. They paid to Dickson at the time a small
part of the purchase money in cash, and .for the balance gave
their four joint notes, each for the sum of $5,373.67., payable
respectively in two, three, four and five years from date, with
interest semi-annually at the rate of eight per cent. per annum.
The notes were secured by a deed of trust of the property to
Enos Ayres, trustee. After the purchase they laid the property off into blocks and lots, making three blocks, numbered
one, two and three respectively, and subdividing each block
into lots. Previous to September, 1872, Michael Traver, who
lived in Chicago and had the im3inediate charge of the property, sold some of the lots, partly for cash and partly on credit.
On the 5th of September, -1872, an oral agreement was entered
into between the two Travers by which Michael was to take
all the cash" and notes that had been received from sales, and
all the unsold parts of block two, and all but eight lots of those
unsold in block three, pay the debt to Dickson, and give Henry
all of block one and eight lots in block three, clear of the encumbrance of the trust deed to Ayres. In part execution of
this agreement Michael at the time conveyed to Henry his interest in block one and in the eight lots in block three. Henry
did not convey to Michael until December 20, 1 872. On that
day, for the consideration of $100, as expressed in the deed, he
remised, released, sold, conveyed and quit-claimed to Michael
in fee simple, all his "right, title, interest, claim and demand"
in the unsold lots in block two and in block three, except the
eight which had been conveyed to him by Michael, and, at the
same time, transferred to Michael all his interest in the moneys
and securities which had been received for the lots sold. In his
deed making the conveyance he covenanted that he had "not
made, done, committed, executed or suffered any act or acts,
thing or things, whatsoever, whereby, or by means whereof,
the above-mentioned premises, or any part or parcel thereof,
now are, or at any time hereafter may be, impeached, charged
or encumbered in any way or manner whatever."
Michael finding himself unable to pay the note to Dickson
which fell due in December, 1872, and the interest on the other

RICHARDSON r. TRAVER.
Opinion of the Court.

notes, entered into an oral agreement with James C. Hyde by
which Hyde was to take the property off his hands as he took
it from Henry, and pay the debt to Dickson, and relieve the
premises conveyed to Henry from the lien of the trust deed to
Ayres.Under this agreement Michael conveyed the part of
the property, to which he held the title, to Hyde by deed, with
full covenants of warranty expressing a consideration of $16,000, and transferred to him all debts due for lots sold. This
deed was dated December 28, 1872, but the transaction was not
finally ended until some days after that date. Hyde at the
same time assumed orally the payment of the Dickson debt,
that being the only consideration for the transfer. At the
time of this transfe Hyde borrowed from Richardsoi, the appellant, through Hammond & Bogue, his agents in Chicago,
$10,000, for which he executed two.notes, payable three years
from date, one for $6,000 and the other for $4,000, and secured
them by two deeds of trust to Hammond as trustee, each upon
different parts of block two. Together these deeds covered the
whole of the block. Hammond & Bogue were only authorized
to make loans for Richardson on unencumbered property.
They knew'at the time they paid the money over to Hyde that
block two was encumbered by the deed of trust to Ayres, but
Hyde promised to pay the past due note and the past due interest to Dickson out of the money he borrowed, and obtain a
release from Ayres of that block. Hyde did pay the note and
the interest past due and also the note falling due in December, 1873, but instead of getting a release from Ayres of block
two, he, without the knowledge of Hammond & iBogue, took
one of block three, thus leaving block two still under the encumbrance of-a lien prior to that for the benefit of Richardson
to the extent of the two notes to Dickson falling due four and
five years from date.
When the note maturing in December, 1874, fell due, Hyde
was unable to meet it, but in January, 1875, he sold nineteen
lots in block two, for which he received $6,000 in cash. With
this and other moneys advanced by Hammond & ]3ogue, Bogue
went to the. bankers to whom both. the remaining Dickson
notes had been sent for collection, and paid the money for

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.
them and took them away uncancelled, they having been previously indorsed in blank by Dickson, that falling due in 1875
being "without recourse." One payment of $6,000 was made
on the 15th of January, and the other, being $5,641.87, on the
29th. On the day the last payment was made, and after the
notes had been taken up, Bogue went to Ayres with them and
requested him to release block two from the lien of the trust
deed td him. He stated to Ayres that he was the owner of
the.notes, and thereupon Ayres executed a release of block
two wich Bdgue signed and acknowledged with him. In
this release Bogue is described as the "legal holder of the unpaid notes." After this Hyde paid Hammond & Bogue the
money they had advanced to take up the notes from the bank.
Hammond, also, at different times, released a part of the lots
in block two from the lien of the deed of trust to him for the
security of Richardson. The nineteen lots which had been
sold, and from the proceeds of which the $6,000 came that was
paid to the bank upon the notes on the 15th of January, were
released when that sale was made. The other releases were
executed whea the advances of Hammond & Bogue were repaid by Hyde.
Henry J. Traver first heard of the release of the lien on
block two under the trust in favor of Dickson a short time
before the 5th of April, 1875, and at that date he brought suit
in the Circuit Court of Cook County against Michael Traver,
Hyde, Bogue, Ayres, Hammond, and others who had become
interested in the property, not, however, including Richardson,
to obtain a release of block one from the lien under the Ayres
trust deed, on the ground that the Dickson notes had been
paid. In this suit he obtained a preliminary injunction restraining :yde, Bogue, and Ayres from enforcing the trust
deed or selling or disposing of the two Dickson notes. On the
30th of June, 1875, while this suit was pending, Hammond &
Bogue sent Richardson, in Boston, where he resided, a draft
for $400 !' in laym't of coupon of James C. Hyde due 28th
inst. to 1st prox." In their letter to Richardson enclosing the
remittance Hammond & Bogue made no mention of any change
in the form of his securities, or of the suit which had been

RICHARDSON v. TRAVER.
Opinion of the Court.

begun by Henry J. Traver. On the 7th of October, 1875,
Hyde and Hammond & Bogue answered the bill of Traver,
and on the 8th Ayres filed his answer. In the answer of Hammond & Dogue they state that "on or about the time when
the first of said two Dickson notes became due, the said Hyde
requested these defendants to allow him to pay up said notes
for $6,000 and $4,000 then held by said Richardson, and
to purchase the said two Dickson notes. And these defendants, acting as the agents of said Richardson, at the request of said Hyde, agreed to and did receive payment of said
$6,000 and $4,000 notes, secured by the deeds of trust to this
defendant Hammond on said block two, and this defendant
Hammond released the greater portion of said block two from
the lien of said trust deeds, made to this defendant Hammond
as trustee, there being about ten lots yet remaining not formally released, but this defendant Hammond was and is ready
to release the same at any time at request of said Hyde, unless
enjoined by the court. And the said Hyde, having paid up
the interest on said two Dickson notes and a sufficient amount
of the principal to reduce the same to the sum of ten thousand
dollars, these defendants agreed to and did take said notes by
purchase, acting for and in behalf of said Richardson, and the
said Richardson is now the legal and equitable owner of the
same for full value. And these defendants, as such agents,
consented to extend the time of paymeut of said Dickson notes
first becoming due for the period of one year. And these defendants, also at the request of said Hyde, consented to the
release 6f said block two from the lien of said trust deed to
said Ayres as trustee, and this defendant, Bogie, signed said
release, joining with said trustee, but these defendants at that
time supposed and believed that' said Hyde was the owner of
both block one and block two, and knew nothing of the said
agreement between said complainant [Henry Traver] and said
Michael Traver, and between said Michael Traver and said
Hyde. And these defendants, for and in behalf of said Richardson, extended the time of payment of said Dickson note,
first payable, for the term of one year; and the said Dickson
notes are now in the hands and possession of these defendants

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of .the Court.

as the agents of the said Richardson, who is the legal and
equitable owner of the same, and who paid full value therefor."
The answer of Hyde was in substance the same.
On the Sth of December following, Hammond & Bogue
wrote Richardson as follows:
"With regard to the Traver loan, we have to say, from
present appearances we do not think there is a prospect of any
payment being made at present. But we are of opinion it will
.be for your interest to institute prompt proceedings to foreclose if nothing is paid. The security on this loan was modified by us from the form as originally taken, as follows: At the
time of negotiating for the loan there was existing a prior
purehase-nioney security of the same character as that taken
by us. -Our first arrangement, at the time of the negotiation
of the loan, was to have this original encumbrance released, in
(order that your loan should be a first lien. Instead of the
release we had the original security (being the purchase-money
paper secured by deed of trust) transferred to us, for your account, in substitution of the security first taken, and which we
hold for your security as a first and prior lien, and we think it
advisable, in case no payment is made this month when the
payment -is due (December 19th), that proceedings for foreosure in the United States court be commenced immediately.
We are legally advised and believe that this course will result
in procuring an early settlement, but if not, it will be a spe :ly
proceeding by which a final result may be reached much
sooner than is the case in the o6e courts. We would like
you- to advise and direct us in regard -to immediate proceedings
to foreclose as we may deem necessary for our interest. An
early reply is important.. Sdnd all papers of both loans."
Richardson at once sent 'forward' the two notes and deeds of
trust, and their receipt was acknowledged by Hammond &
Bouo under date of the 13th'of December.
On the 28th of December suit was begun by Richardson in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois, against the T'ravers,,Ayres, Hammond, ant'
certain purrhasers of the property,' to enforce the lien- of the

RICHARDSON vo.TRAVER.
Opinion of the Court.

Ayres deed of trust on block one for. the security of the two
Dickson notes. In the bill Richardson stated that "on or
about the 15th of January, 1875," he had, "for a good and
valuable consideration, purchased from the said John Dickson
the two notes aforesaid." Thereupon, Henry J. Traver filed a
supplemental bill in his suit in the State court, under which he
brought in Richardson as a party. Richardson appeared, and,
on his petition, the case was removedi to the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Northern District of Illinois. When
it got there it was consolidated with the suit which had been
begun by Richardson. The Circuit Court, on final hearing,
dismissed the bill of Richardson and rendered a decree in favor
of Traver, cancelling the lien of the deed of trust to Ayres on
block one. From that decree Richardson has appealed.
After a careful consideration of the evidence we are satisfied
with the decree below. To our minds it is clear that the Dickson notes have been jaid by Hyde, not bozghzt by Richardson.
Richardson never heard of the transaction in reference to the
Dickson notes until nearly a year after it occurred. He held
all the time his original notes and the deeds of trust which
were given for their security. Long after the time when it is
claimed the notes were paid Hyde, through Hammond &
Bogue, remitted him the interest when it fell due according to
the terms of the notes he had in his own hands, and did not
intimate in any way that those notes had been paid and
others substituted for them. The books of Hammond &
Bogue contain nothing to connect Richardson with the taking
up of the Dickson notes. The $6,000 which Ilyde handed
to Bogue, and which h, used in taking up the notes on the
15th of January, was neither entered to the credit of Hyde nor
Richardson. In fact, it nowhere appears in any account on
the books. The $5,641.87 which Hammond & Bogue (lid advance was charged directly to Hyde, and his payments on that
account were passed to his credit: In all the conversations
with Bogue which have been testified to, he did not intimate
that Richardson was the owner.of the notes. It is no doubt
true the parties supposed that by keeping the notes uncancelled
they might be so used as to make the lien under the Ayres trust

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

on block one available as additional security for the ultimate
payment of the Richardson notes, but as Hyde, not Richardson, paid the bank for them, if Hyde could not charge Henry
Traver's property with their payment Richardson cannot.
Michael Traver bound himself to Henry to pay the notes and
discharge block one from the lien of the trust created for
their security. Hyde bound himself to M ichael Traver to
carry out this agreement which had been made with Henry.
When the notes were afterwards taken up from the bank,
where there were sent for collection, with the money of Hyde,
they were, in legal effect, flaid, and from that time the
lien on block one was discharged. Hyde could not himself enforce them against that property, neither can Richardson. Although Hammond & Bogue advanced a part of the money to
take up the notes, it was afterwards repaid to them by Hyde,
and that made all the money paid for the notes his own.
Hyde, Hammond and Bogue all swear, with more or less directness, that Hyde paid the Richardson notes, and that this
money was used to buy the Dickson notes, but this is contradicted by the well-established facts in the case, and it is apparent, from their own testimony, taken as a whole, that, until
long after the Henry Traver suit was begun, they had no idea
that they were doing anything more than keeping the Dickson
lien alive as additional security for Richardson. The testimony satisfies us beyond doubt that both Haimnond and
Bogue knew all about the obligation of Hyde to discharge
the lien of those notes on block one, and that the pretence
of a paym6nt of the Richardson notes, and the use of the
money so paid to buy them, .wasall an afterthought. There
is not a single act or fact which appears in the transaction to
indicate that anything of the kind was in the minds of the
parties at the time.
It is said, however, that parol evidence of the agreements
between Henry and Michael Traver, and between Michael
Traver and Hyde, is no& idmissible, because the "agreements
were contradictory to the acknowledgments, and in opposition
to the plain import of the cotnants contained in the deeds.
If, by possibility, they could be held as of force between the

RICHARDSON v. TRAVER.
Opinion of the Court.

original parties, they were ineffective and nugatory as to third
parties."
Neither Michael Traver nor Hyde deny that the parol agreements were made precisely as charged in the Traver bill, and
it is elementary learning that evidence may be given of a consideration not mentioned in a deed, provided" it be not inconsistent with the consideration expressed in it. 1 Greenl. Ev.
286; 2 Phil. Ev. 353. In both these deeds a valuable consideration is expressed, and it is not inconsistent with the considerations so expressed to show, that the actual considerations
were the agreements to pay the Dickson notes. The question
here is not as to the liability of Henry J. Traver or Michael
Traver upon the covenants in their respective Zleeds. Undoubtedly their covenants, such as they are, run with the land,
but Richardson is not now claiming under the conveyances.
The title, if any, which he has to the land embraced in those
conveyances is not now disputed: He is suing to collect the
Dickson notes, by enforcing their lien on property not included
in his original security, and the question in the case is whether
they have been paid, and in that is involved the further question, whether Hyde, through whom he got the notes, was
bound to pay them. To show that Hyde was so bound, his
agreement to that effect, as the consideration for the conveyance to him, was proven. As Richardson does not, in this suit,
claim anything under that deed, the covenants cannot be used
as an estoppel in his favor. The actual facts may therefore be
shown.
It is also claimed that "Richardson is entitled to hold the
Dickson security by way of subrogation." But relief is not
asked, either in the bill of Richardson or in his answer to the
Traver bill, on that account. In both his bill and answer he
puts his claim entirely on the ground of the purchase and ownership of the Dickson notes, and makes no mention whatever
of his original loan to Hyde, or of the security which was taken
therefor. In the answers of Hammond, Dogue and Hyde ' it is
distinctly stated that Richardson's notes were paid, and the
Dickson notes bought with the money realized by this payment. Hammond & Bogue having advanced part of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

money to take up the notes, could undoubte4ly have held
them to secure the repayment of their advances; but, as that
repayment has been made, the case stands precisely as it would
if Hyde had himself furnished the money originally.
But if relief had been asked on the ground of subrogation,
it could not have been granted on the facts as they now appear. The notes were paid by Hyde under his obligation for
that purpose, and that discharged the security on block two as
well as on block one. The question is not whether, if the notes
had not been paid by Hyde, and Dickson were now endeavoring to enforce his security, Richardson could require him to
exhaust his lien on block one before coming on block two; nor
whether, if Richardson's security on block two had been duninished by a compulsory sale of that block for Dickson's benefit, he could resort to block one to make good his loss; but
whether, having voluntarily released his security on block two,
without the consent of or notice to Henry Traver, to enable
Hyde to raise the money to take up the notes, he can hold the
noiss with a lien on block one in place of the seclirity he gave
up. The doctrine of subrogation, which is a creature of equity,
has never been carried to that extent. If Richardson had in
good faith paid the notes with his own money to protect himself under his junior security, he would have been put in the
place of Dickson as the owner of the notes, and, upon a foreclosure, his rights in block two as against those of Henry Traver
in block one could have been ascertained and protected. But
such is not the case. His agents and trustee saw fit, without
consulting Henry Traver, to allow Hyde to use block two to
pay the notes. This block Hyde owned subject to the liens, 1,
in favor of Dickson, and, 2, in favor of Richardson. As against
Hyde, Henry Traver had the right to have block two sold to
pay the Dickson debt before block one was resorted to, because
Hyde was bound to pay the Dickson debt and release block
one from encumbrance on that account, Whether, as against
Richardson's junior encumbrance on block two, Traver could
require Dickson to sell that block before 6oming on block one,
depends entirely on the effect of Tenry Traver's covenants in
his deed of release and quit-claim t) Michael, about which we

MIDDLETON v. MULLICA.
Opinion of the Court.

express no opinion, because to our minds it is clear that Richardson, by voluntarily releasing, without the consent of Heey
Traver, a part of his junior security on block two to enable
Hyde to raise the money to discharge the debt to Dickson,
was not subrogated to the rights of Dickson under hi- original
security on block one. If Traver had been consulted and had
consented to the keeping alive of the Dickson notes to take the
place of the security of Richardson which had been released,
the case would have been different, but as property bound for
the Dickson debt was in fact used to pay it with the consent
of the junior encumbrancer, no lien upon other property for the
security of the Dickson debt can be kept alive for the benefit
of the releasing junior encumbrancer without the consent of
those whose interests in the other property are to be affected.
The payment to Dickson discharged the debt and all that pertained to its continued existence.
Dreore c ffflrned.

MDDLETON v. IVULLICA TOWNS=IP.
IN

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
Argued October 17, 1884.-Decided December 8, 1884.

An act of the legislature of New Jersey constrted,-to the effect that it authorized certain township officers to execute bonds for the township to raise
money for bounties to volunteers.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
-fr. F. C. Brewster and -r. F. C. Brewster, Jr., for plaintiff in error.
.M. P. Z. 'Foorheesfor defendant in error.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action of debt brought in the couk -below to t~eMr. JUSTICE BRADLEY
-oL. oxn-28

