452

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

LAMAR, Executor, v. MICOU, Administratrix.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued October 31, November 3, 1M4.-Decided December 1, 1854.

The war of the rebellion, and the residence of both guardian and ward in the
enemy's territory throughout the war, did not terminate the obligation of a
guardian appointed before the war in a State never within that territory,
nor discharge him from liability to account to the ward in the courts of that
State after the war.
A receipt given to a guardian appointed in one State, by.a guardian afterwardsappointed in another State, for specific personal property of the
ward, transferred by the former to the lattdr, does not discharge the former
from responsibility to account for previous loss by his mismanagement of
the ward's property. Nor is such responsibility lessened by the person last
appointed guardian having before his appointment concurred and aided in
the acts complained of.
Admissions by a ward's next of kin during the ward's lifetime cannot be set
up in defence of a bill by such next of kin as the ward's administrator.
The widow of a citizen of one State does not, by marrying again, and taking
the infant children of the first husband from that State to live with her at
the home of the second husband in another State, change the domicil of
the children.
A guardian, appointed in a State in which the ward is temporarily residing,
cannot change the ward's domidil from one Stati to another.
A guardian, appointed in a State which is not the domicil of the ward, should
not, in accounting in the State of his appointment for his investment of,
the ward's property, be held, unless in obedience to express statute, to a
narrower range of securities than is allowed by the law of the State of the
ward's domicil.
By the law of Georgia before 1863. and by the law of Alabama, a guardian
might invest his ward's money in bank stock in Georgia or in New York,
or in city bonds, or in bonds issued by a railroad corporation and indorsed
by the State which had chartered it.
A guardian may, without order of court, sell personal property of the ward in
his possession, and reinvest the proceeds.
A guardian, appointed in New York, before the war of the rebellion, of an
infant then temporarily residing there, but domiciled in Georgia, sold bank
stock of his ward in New York during the war, and there invested the proceeds in bonds issued before the war by the cities of Mobile, Memphis and
New Orleans, and in bonds issued by a railroad corporation chartered by

the State of Tennessee and whose road was in Tennessee and Georgia, and
the railroad bonds indorsed by the State of Tennessee at the time of their
issue; and deposited the bonds in a bank in Canada. Held, That if m so

LAMAR v. MICOU.
Statement of Facts.
doing he used due care and prudence, having regard to the best pecuniary
interests of his ward, he was not accountable to the ward for loss by depreciation of the bonds, although one object of the sale and investment was to
save the ward's money from confiscation by the United States.
An investment by a guardian, of money of his ward, during the waV of the
rebellion, and while both guardian and ward were residing within the,
enemy's territory, in bonds of the so-called Confederate States, was unlawful, and the guardian is responsible to the ward for the sum'so invested.

This was an appeal by the executor of a guardian from a
decree against him upon a bill in equity filed by the administratrix of his ward.
The original bill, filed on July 1, 1875, by Ann C. Sims, a
citizen of Alabama, as administratrix of Martha Ml. Sims, ini
the Supreme Court of the State of New York, alleged that on
December 11, 1855, the defendant's testator, Gazaway B. Lamar, was duly appointed, by the surrogate of the county of
Richmond in that State, guardian of the person and estate of
Martha M..Sims, an infant of six years of age, then a resident
of that county, and gave bond as such, and took into his
possession and control all her property, being more than
$5,000; that. on October 5,1874, he died in New York, and
on November 10, 1874, his will was there admitted to probate,
and the defendant, a citizen of New York, was appointed his
executor; and that he and his executor had neglected to render
any account of his guardianship to the surrogate of Richmond
county or to any court having cognizance thereof, or to the
ward or her administratrix; and prayed for an account, and
for judgment for the amount found.to be due.
The defendant removed the case into the Circuit Court; of
the United States for the Southern District of New York; and
there filed an answer, averring that in :1855, when Lamar was
appointed guardian of Martha M. Sims, he was a citizen of
Georgia, and she was a citizen of Alabama, having a tempo-'
rary residence in the city of New York; that in the spring of
1861 the States of Georgia and Alabama declared, themselves
to have seceded from the United States, and to constitute
members of the so-called Confederate, States of America,
whereupon a state of war arose between the United States and
the Confederate States, which continued to be flagrant for

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

more than four years after; that Lamar and Martha 11. Sims
were in the spring of 1861 citizens and residents of the States
of Georgia and Alabama respectively, and citizens of the Confederate States, and were engaged in aiding and abetting the
State of Georgia and the so-called Confederate States in their
iebellion against the United States, and she continued to aid
and abet until the time of her death, and he continued to aid
and abet till January, 1865; that the United States by various
public acts declared all his and her property, of any kind, to be
liable to seizure and confiscation by the United States, and they
both were, by the various acts of Congress of the United
States, outlawed and debarred of any access to any court of
the United States, whereby it was impossible for Lamar to appear in the Surrogate's Court of Richmond county to settle and
close his accounts there, and to be discharged from his liability
as guardian, in consequence whereof the relation of guardian
and ward, so far as it depended upon the orders of that court,
ceased and determined; that, for the purpose of saving the
ward's property from seizure and confiscation by the United
States, Lamar, at the request of the ward and of her natural
guardians, all citizens of the State of Alabama; withdrew the
funds belonging to her from the city of New York, and invested them for her benefit and account in such securities as
by the laws of the States of Alabama and Georgia and of the
Confederate States he might lawfully.do; that in 1864, upon
the death of Martha M . Sims, all her property vested in her
sister, Ann C. Sims, as her next of kin, and any accounting of
Lamar for that property was, to be made to her; that on
M arch 15, 1867, at the written request of Ann C. Sims and of
her natural guardians, Benjamin H. Micou was appointed her
legal guardian by the Probate Court of Montgomery County,
in the State of Alabama, which was at that time her residence,
and Lamar thereupon accounted for and paid over all property,
with which he was chargeable as guardian of M artha M,.Sims,
to Micou as her guardian, and received from him a full release
therefor; and that Ann C. Sims when she became of age
ratified and confirmed the same. To that answer the plaintiff
filed a general replication.

LAMAR v. MICOU.
Statement of Facts.

The case was set down for hearing in the Circuit Court upon
the bill, answer and replication, and a statement of facts agreed
by the parties, in substance as follows:
On November 23, 1850, William W. Sims, a citizen of
Georgia, died at Savannah in that State, leaving a widow,
who was appointed his administratrix, and two infant daughters, Martha M. Sims, born at Savannah on September 8, 1849,
and Ann C., Sims, born in Florida on June 1, 1851. In 1853
the widow married the Rev. Richard M. Abercrombie, of Clifton, in the county of Richmond and State of New York.
On December 11, 1855. on the petition of Mrs. Abercrombie,
Gazaway B. Lamar, an uncle of Mr. Sims, and then residing at
Brooklyn in the State of New York, was appointed by the
surrogate of Richmond County guardian of the person and
estate of each child "until she shall arrive at, the age of fourteen years, and until another guardian slall be appointed;"
and gave bond to her, with sureties, "to faithfully in all things
discharge the duty of a guardian to the said minor according
to law, and render h true an(' just account of all moneys and
other property received by him, and of the application thereof,
and of his guardianship in all respects, to any court having
cognizance thereof;" and he immediately received from Mrs.
Abercrombie in money $5,166.89 belonging to each ward, and
invested part of it in January and April, 1856, in stock of the
Bank of the Republic at New York, and part of it in March
and July, 1857, in stock of the Bank of Commerce at Savannah, each of which was then paying, and continued to ay
until April, 1861, good dividends annually, the one of ten and
the other of eight per cent.
In 1856, several months after Lamar's appointment as guardian, Mr. and Mrs. Abercrombie removed from Clifton, in the
State of New York, to Hartford, in the State of Connecticut,
and there resided till her death in the spring of 1859. The
children lived with Mr. and Mrs. Abercrombie, Lamar as
guardian paying Mr. Abercrombie for their board, at Clifton
and at Hartford, from the marriage until her death; and were
then removed to Augusta in the State of Georgia, and there
lived with. their paternal grandniother and her unmarried

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

daughter and only.living child, their aunt; Lamar as guardian
continuing to pay their board. After 1856 neither of the children ever resided in the State of New York. On January 18,
1860, their aunt was married to Benjamin H. Micou, of Montgomery in the State of Alabama, and the children and their
grandmother thereafter lived with Mr. and Mrs. Micou at
Montgomery, and the children were educated and supported at
Mr. Micou's expense.
From 1855 to 1859 Lamar resided partly in Georgia and
partly in New York. In the spring of 1861 he had a temporary residence in the city of New York, and upon the breaking
out of the war of the rebellion, and after removing all his own
property, left New York, and passed through the lines to Savannah, and there resided, sympathizing with the rebellion, and
doing what he could to accomplish its success, until January,
1865, and continued to have his residence in Savannah uril
1872 or 1873, -when he went to New York again, and afterwards lived there. Mr. and Mrs. Micou also sympathized with
the rebellion and desired its success, and each of them, as well
as Lamar, failed durkng the rebellion to bear true allegiance to
the United States.
At the time of Lamar's appointment as guardian, ten shares
in the stock of the Mechanics' Bank of Augusta in the State of
Georgia, which had belonged to William W. Sims in his lifetime, stood on the books of the bank in the name of Mrs. Abercrombic as his administratrix, of which one-third belonged to
her as his widow, and one-third to each of the infants. In January, 1856, the bank refused a request of Lamar to transfer
one-third of that stock to him as guardian of each infant, but
afterwards paid to him as guardian from time to time twothirds of the dividends during the life of Mrs. Abercrombie,
and all the dividends after her death until 1865. During the
period last named, he also received as guardian the dividends
oA some other bank stock in Savannah, whichl Mrs. Abercrombie owned, and to which, on her death, her husband became
entitled. Certain facts, relied on as showing that he, immediately after his wife's death, made a surrender of her interest in
the bank shares to Lamar, as guardian of her children, are not

LAMAR v. 31ICOU.
Statement of Facts.

material to the understanding of the decision of this court, but
are recapitulated in the opinipn of the Circuit Court. 7 Fed.
Rep. 180-185.
In the winter of 1861-62, Lamar, fearing that the stock in
the Bank of the Republic at New York, held by him as guardian, would be confiscated by the United States, had it sold by a
friend in New York; the proceeds of the sale, which were about
twenty per cent. less than the par -value of the stock, invested
at New York in guaranteed bonds of the cities of New Orleans,
Memphis and Mobile, and of the Fast Tennessee and Georgia
Railroad Company; and those bonds deposited in a bank in
Canada.
Lamar from time to time invested the property of his wards,
that was within the so-called Confederate States, in whate er
seemed to him to be the most secure and safe-some in Confederate States bonds, some, in the bonds of the individual States
which composed the confederacy, and some in bonds of cities
and of raih'oad corporations and stock of banks within those
States.
On the money of his wards, accruing from dividends on bank
stock, and remaining in his hands, he charged himself With interest until the summer of 1862, when, with the advice and aid
of Mr. Mlicou, he invested $7,000 of such money in bonds of the
Confederate States and of the State of Alabama; and in 1863,
with the like advice and aid, sold the Alabama bonds for more
than he had paid for them, and invested the proceeds also in
Confederate States bojuds; charged his wards with the money
paid, and credited them with the bonds; and placed the bonds
in the. hands of their grandmother, who gave.him a .receipt for
them and held them till the end of the rebellion, when they, as
well as the stock in the banks at Savannah, .became worthless.
Martha M. Sims died on November 2, 1834, at the age of
fifteen years, unmarried and intestate, leaving her sister Ann C.
Sims her next of kin. On January 12, 1867, Lamar, in answer
to letters of inquiry from Mr. and Mrs. Micou, wrote to Mrs.
Micou that he had saved from the wreck of the property of his
niece, Ann C. Sims, surviving her sister, three bonds of the city
of Memphis, indorsed by the State of Tennessee, one bond of

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.Statement of Facts.

the city of Mobile, and one bond of the East Tennessee and
Georgia Railroad Company, each for $1,000, and with some
coupons past due and uncollected; and suggested that by reason
of his age and failing health, and of the embarrassed state of
his own affairs, Mr. Micou should be appointed in Alabama
guardian in his 9tead. 'Upon the receipt 'of this letter Mrs.
Micou wrote to Lamar, thanking him for the explicit statement
of the niece's affairs, and for the care and trouble he had had
with her property; and Ann C. Sims, then nearly sixteen years
old, signed a request, attested by her grandmother and by Mrs.
Micou, that her guardianship might be transferred to Mr. Micou,
and that he might be appointed her guardian. And on March
15, 1867, he was appointed guardian of her property by the
Probate Court of the county of Montgomery and State of A-la
bama, according to the laws of that State, and gave bond as
such.
On May 14, 1867, Lamar sent to Micou complete and correct
statements of his guardianship account with each of his wards,
as well as all the securities remaining in his hands as guardian
of either, and a check payable to Micou as guardian of Ann C.
Sims for a balance in money due her; and Micou, as such
guardian, signed and sent to Lamar a schedule of and receipt
for the property, describing it si)ecifically, by which it appeared
that the bonds of the cities of New Orleans and Memphis and
of the East Tennessee and Georgia Railroad Company were
issued, and the Memphis bonds, as well as the railroad bonds,
were indorsed by the State of Tennessee, some years before the
breaking out of the rebellion. Micou thenceforth continued to
act in all respects as the only guardian of Ann C. Sims until
.she became of age on June 1 1872.
No objection or complaint was ever made by either of the
N
wards, or their relatives, against Lamar's transactions or investments as guardian, until July 28,1874, when Micou wrote to
Lamar, informing him that Ann C. Sims desired a settlement
of his accounts; and that he had been advised that no credits
could be allowpd for the investments in Confederate States
bonds, and that Lamar was responsible for the security of the
investments in other bonds and bank stock. Lamar was then

LAMAR v. 3ICOU.
Statement of Facts.

sick inNew York, and died there on October 5, 1874, without
having answered the letter.
Before the case was heard in the Circuit Court, Ann C. Sims
died on May 7, 1878 ; and on June 20, 1878, Mrs. Micou was
appointed, in New York, administratrix de bonis no of Martha
M. Sims, and as such filed a bill of revivor in this suit. On
October 3, 1878, the defendant filed a cross bill, repeating the
allegations of his answer to the original bill, and further averring that Ann C. Sims left a will, which had been admitted to
probate in Montgomery County in the State of Alabama, and
afterwards in the county and State of New York, by which she
gave all her property to Mrs. Micou, who was her next of kin;
and that Mrs. Micou was entitled to receive for her own benefit
whatever might be recovered in the principal suit, and was
estopped to deny the lawfulness or propriety of Lamais acts,
because whatever was done by him as guardian of Martha M.
Sims in her lifetime, or as guardian of the iiterests.of Ann C.
Sims as her next of kin, was authorized and approved by Mrs.
hiicou and her mother and husband as the natural guardians of
both children. Mrs. Micou, as plaintiff in the bill of revivor,
answered the cross bill, alleging that Ann succeeded to Martha's
property as administratrix, and not as her next of kin, admitting
Ann's will and the probate thereof, denying that Mrs. Micou
was a natural guardian of the children, and denying that she
approved or ratified Lamar's acts as guardian. A general replication was filed to that answer.
Upon a hearing on the pleadings and the agreed statement
of facts, the Circuit Court dismissed the cross bill, held all
Lamar's investments to have been breaches of trust, and entered a decree referring the case to a master to state-an account. The case was afterwards heard on exceptions to the
master's report, and a final decree entered for the plaintiff for
$18,705.19, including the value before 1861 of those bank
stocks in Georgia of which Lamar had never had possession. The
opinion delivered upon the first hearing is reported in 17 Blatchford, 378, and in 1 Fed. Rep. 14, and the opinion upon the
second hearing in 7 Fed. Rep. 180. The defendant appealed
to this court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument. for Appellaut.

Ar. Ed'ward -. Dickerson fQr appellant.-I. If the two
wards had a domicil i3'.the State ofNew York in 1855, the
relation of guardian and ward under the New York appointment was terminated by the- change of tlat dQmicil in 1856, or
before Febuary 9, 1862. A probate court has no jurisdiction
of the affairs of an infant except wle' either the domicil or
the property of the infant is within its jurisdiction. The domicil
of an infant is the domicil of the fathper, if living, and if he is
dead it is the domicil of the mother. t-ennsy~vania v. Ravenel,
21 How. 103. It has been held in New York that the acquisition of a new d6micil by the widow by. re-marriage does not
necessarily change the domicil of her minor child. Browns v.
.Ly4n, 2 Bradford, 214. I n Massachusetts, a guardian, though
not a parent, acting in good faith, may shift the ward's domicil
with his own. Holyoke v. a.askins, 5 Pick. 20. All agree that
the rights and powers of guardians are local. -Morrell v.
Diekeey, 1 Johns. Oh. 153 ; TFoodworth v. Spring, 4 Allen, 321.
Lamar therefore was under no obligation under the laws of New
York as to th6 wards or the property after they left that State.
Althougoh not formally released, he doubtless would have been
,o on application. In equity, acts done in good faith, for which
an order would have passed in course on application, will be
regarded as ordered. fHunt v. Freeman,1 Ohio,' 490, 2d Ed.
226; Zee v. Stone, 5 Gill & Johns. .- II. The guardianship
of Lamar, under the laws of New Yorlk terminated in 1861,
by reason of the war, and has never been revived. This was
the legal effect of a state of war. During its existence a
public enemy -yas denied access to the courts and could not
transact business.. It terminated contacts hnd partnerships,
and by parity of reasoning terminated such reladibns as guardian and ward: See Zasqere v. Roclhereaw, 17 Wall. 437;
Yetellumf v. .ob[uile & O1o Rioalio( Co., 2 Woods, 532.-I11.
After the commencement of the war, Lamar did everything
as to the property, which he could have been required to do had
the guardianship continued. The rule in regard'to investments
of trust funds is not the same everywhere. In England they
must be invested in voonsols. ' Howe v. Dartmouth, 7 Yes. 137;
Holancd v. Hughes, 16 Yes. 111. In Massachusetts, the guar-

LAMARi.

3ICOU.

Argument for Appellant.

dian is to exercise the sound discretion which prudent men
show in making permanent investments of funds with reference to the production of income. Harvard College v. Amory,
9 Pick. 446. In New York, he is bound to employ such diligence and prudence as prudent men employ in their own like
affairs. Zing v. Talbot, 40 N. Y. 76. In Georgia, he was at
that time bound to keep the money invested, and to do this in
good faith upon security undoubted when taken. With the
investments before war we have nothing to do. They were
prudent, and could have been closed out at a profit i hen the
war began. The passage of the confiscation acts made it
Lamar's duty to transfer the investments. See especially act of
July 17, 1862, ch. 195, § 6, 12 Stat. 591. When the investments came within the territory dominated by the Confederates,
an investment in the bonds of those States became justifiabl6.
See Barton v. Bowen, 27 Grattan, 849; Brown v. TFriglt, 39
Georgia, 96. Born v. lockhart, 17 Wall. 570, was decided by a
divided court, and ought not to be extended beyond the limits
of that case.-IV. The appointment by the Alabama court of
Micou as guardian operated to release Lamar.-V. :Mlicou then,
as lawful guardian acting for Miss Sims, gave Lamar arelease,
and when she became of age she could not deny its effect.VI. Even if not operative as a receipt when given, it became
an absolute release by lapse of time before the ward became of
age.-VII. A[iss Ann Sims is estopped by her conduct, after she
became of age, from claiming that Lamar has not fully accounted
to her. _0ry v. Taylor, 6 Johns, Oh. 242, 249; Forbes v.
Forbes, 5 Gill, 29; XfcOlelland v. Jennedy, 8 Maryland, 230.VIII. Mrs. Micou, the defendant in error, has no better right to
recover than Miss Ann Sims would have had.-IX. Whatever
may have been Miss Ann Sims's rights, the defendant in error
is not entitled to recover. Although suing as administratrix,
the recovery will be really for her own benefit. In February,
1867, she approved of what Lamar bad done as guardian, and
did so again in 1874. What she said could have estopped her
had she herself been the e.tui que trust. Jfooers v. 17ite, 6
Tohns. Ch. 360; TFeed v. &nall, 7 Paige, 573. See Cc'irnero"
Ziwimer, 7 Jurist, (N. S.), 149; Illinois Central Paijroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Appellee.

v. Allen, 39 Ill. 205; Tibbs v. Brown, 2 Grant (Penn.) 39.X. There are the same estoppels as to the claim made in behalf
of Martha Sims as to that made in behalf of Ann Sims.
-Mr. Stephen P. -Mash and .fMr. George C. Holt for appellee.
-I. A retiring guardian can only be discharged by order of
a competent court, or by settlement with the ward after the
latter attains majority.
Perry on Trusts, §§ 921-923.-I1.
Lamar's duties and obligations are to be measured by the law
of New York. Investments in bank stocks were unauthorized
by that law. King v. Talbot, 40 N. Y. 76; Adair v. Bimrner,
74 N. Y. 539." The investment in the Georgia bank was further
invalid as made out of the State. Ormiston,v. Olcott, 84 N. Y.
339.-111. The transfer of the New York investments to investments in Confederate stocks during the war was an act in aid
of the rebellion, and was void; Horn v. -Lockhart,17 Wall. 570;
.3fBurey v. Carson,99 U. S. 567; Corker v. Jones, 110'U. S.
317; and would have been disallowed in settlement of a
guardian's account in Alabama. -ewman v. Reed, 50 Ala. 297 ;'
Houstoa v. .Deloach, 43 Ala. 364.-V. The war did not terminate the guardianship, nor affect the liability of the guardian
to account to the ward. War suspends, but does not annul
contract obligations. 3 Phillimore International Law, 735;
Hanger v. Abbott, 6 Wall. 533 ; Insurance Co. v. Davis, 95 U.
S. 425, 430. In the latter case the relation was that of principal
and agent, which bears a resemblance to that of guardian and
ward.-V. The facj that the ward lived in enemy's country
during the war is immaterial. She was too young to be disloyal except by fiction of law. Even if active disloyalty had
becn established, that would not have justified the guardian's
investments. Torn v. Loekhart, 17 Wall. 570; Alexander v.
Bryan, 110 U. S. 414.-VI. The fast that the ward's property
in New York was liable to confiscation is no justification for
its transfer and investment in Southern securities. The rights
of Southern enemies to property within the loyal States were
not affected unless proceedings were taken for confiscation.
Conrad-v. Wafples, 96 U. S. 279 ; Airhart v. Ifassieu, 98 U.
S. 491.-VI. The appointment of MIicQu as guardian of Ann

LAAAIR v. MICOU.
Opinion of the Court.

Sims and Lamar's transfer to him of the remaining securities
were no defence. A guardian'continues to retain all his powers
and to be subject to all his duties and liabilities till the appointment of a successor by the same court which appointed
him. In re Dyer, 5 Paige, 534; In 'e .Yieoll, 1 Johns. Ch. 25.
-VIII. The defence of ratification is inapplicable. Martha
died before she became of age. She therefore could not ratify.
Ann is it is true in some sense the representative of her sister,
but she never ratified as representative. The defence of ratification must be clearly proved, and it must appear that the
party ratifying had full knowledge of the facts. Adair v.
.Brii")26, cited above. An administratrix suing is not chargeable with notice acquired before her appointment. 1 Greenl. Ev.
§ 179 ; 1 Cowen & Hill Notes to Phil. Ev. Ch. 8, § 10. As Ann
and Mrs. MNicou at the time of these investments had no interest
in .Martha's property, there was nothing for an estoppel to work
on. Exparte Smith, 2 Mont. D. & DeG. 113; Dillett v. Kenible, 10 C. E. Green, 66; Plant v. .IeEicen, 4 Conn. 544.-IX.
The guardian was chargeable with the full value of the shares in
Mechanics' Bank, Georgia, standing in the name of Mrs. Abercrombie, as administratrix, and in the shares of the Bank of
Commerce standing in her name individually. It is the duty of
a guardian to take all reasonable steps to collect and protect the
property of his ward, whether situated in the State where he is
appointed or not. Itis true that a.guardianship is a local office,
but that does not authorize a guardian to shut his eyes and let
his ward's property in other States go to waste. Taylor v.
B wis-, 110 U. S. 42; Sh7ultz v. Pulver, 3 Paige, 182; affirmed It
Wend. 361 ; 31atter qfButler, 38 N. Y. 397i.-X. There was no
error in charging the guardian with interest at six per cent.
K-7ng v. Talbot, cited above. That is the rule in New York ;
and the United States court will follow the State rule. Suydarn v. lillams.on, 24 How. 427; Pennington v. Gibson, 16
How. 65.
Mr. JuSTicE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court. Ile
recited the facts as above stated, and continued:
The autbority of the Surrogate's Court of the county of Rich-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

mond- and State of :New York to appoint Lamar guardian of
the persons and property of infants at the time within that
county, and the authority of the Supreme Court of the State
of New York, in which this suit was originally brought, being
a court of general equity jurisdiction, to take cognizance thereof, are not disputed; and upon the facts agreed it is quite clear
that none of the defences set up in the answer afford any
ground for dismissing the bill.
The war of the rebellion, and the residence of both ward
and guardian within the territory controlled by the insurgents,
did not discharge the guardian, from his responsibility to account, after the war, for property of the wards which had at
.any time come into his hands, or which he might by the exercise of due care have obtained possession of. A state of war
does not put an end to pre-existing obligations, or transfer the
propeity of wards to their guardians, or release the latter from
the duty 'to.keep it safely, but suspends until the return of
peace the right of any one residing in the enemy's country to
sue in our courts. Vard v. Smith, 7 Wall. 447; 3fontgomery
v. United States, 15 Wall. 395, 400; ZRsurance Co. v. Davis,
95 U. S. 425, 430; -Kershawv. JKelsey, 100 Mass. 561, 563, 564,
'570; 3 Phillimore International Law (2d ed.) § 589.
The appointment of Micou in 1867 by a court of Alabama
to be guardian of the surviving ward, then residing in that
State, did not terminate Lamar's liability for proper~y of his
wards which he previously had or ought to have taken possession of. The receipt given by Mlicou was only for the securities and money actually handed over to him by Lamar; and
if Micou had any authority to discharge Lamar from liability
for past mismanagement of either ward's property, he never
assumed to do so.
The suggestion in the answer, that the surviving ward, upon
coming of age, ratified and approved the acts of Lamar as
guardian, finds no support in the facts of the case.
The further grounds of defence, set up in the cross bill, that
.Mcouparticipated in Lamar's investments, and that Mrs.
-Aicou approved them, are equally unavailing. The acts of
Micou, before his own appointment as guardian, could not bind

LAMAR v. MICOU.
Opinion of the Court.

the ward. And admissions in private letters from Mrs. M icou
to Lamar could not affect the rights of the ward, orlMrs. Micon's authority, upon being afterwards appointed administratrix of the ward, to maintain this bill as such against Lamar's
representative, even if the amount recovered will inure to h(r
own benefit as the ward's next of kin. I Greenl. Ev. § 179.
The extent of Lamar's liability presents 'more difficult questions of law, now for the first time brought before this court.
The general rule is everywhere recognized, that a guardian
or trustee, when investing property in his hands, is bound to
act honestly-and faithfully, and to exercise a sound discretion,
such as men of ordinary prudence and intelligence use in their
own affairs. In some jurisdictions, no attempt has been made
to establish a more definite rule; in others, the discretion has
been confined, by the legislature or the courts, within strict
limits.
The Court of Chancery, before the Declaration of Independence, appears to have allowed some latitude to trustees in making investments. Tht best evidence of this is to be found in
the judgments of Lord Rardwicke. He held, indeed, in accordance with the clear weight of authority before and since,
that money lent on a mere personal obligation, like a promissory note, without security, was at the risk of the trustee.
Riycler v. Bickerton, 3 Swanston, 80, note; S. C. 1 Eden, 149,
note; Barney v. Sauinders,16 How. 535, 545 ; Perry on Trusts,
§ 453. But in so holding, he said: " For it should have been
on some such security as binds land, or something, to be answerable for it." 3 Swanston, 81, note. Although in one case
he held that a trustee, directed by the terms of his trust to
invest the trust money in government funds or other good securities, was responsible for a.loss caused by his investing it
in South Sea stock; and observed that neither South Sea stock
nor bank stock was considered a good security, because it depended upon the management of the governor and directors,
and the capital might be wholly lost; Traqord v. Boehm, 3
Atk. 440, 444; yet in another case he declined to charge a
trustee for a loss on South Sea stock which had fallen in value
since the trustee received it; and said that "to compel trustees
VOL. cx-40

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

to make up a deficiency, not owing to their wilful default, is
the harshest demand that can be made in a court pf equity."
7ackson v. Jackson, 1 Atk. 513, 51A; S. C. West Ch. 31, 34.
In a later case he said: "Suppose a trustee, having in his
hands a considerable sum of money, places it out in the funds,
which afterwards sink in their value, or on a security at the
time apparently good, which afterwards turns out not to be so,
for the benefit of the cestui que trust, was there ever an instance of the trustee's being made to answer the actual sum so
placed out? 'I answer, No. If there is no malsfitdes, nothing
wilful in the conduct of the trustee, the court will always favor
him. For as a trust is an office necessary in the concerns between man and man, and which, if faithfully discharged, is
attended with no small degree of trouble and anxiety, it is an
act of great kindness in any one to accept it; to add hazard or
risk to. that trouble, and subject a trustee to losses which he
could not foresee, and consequently not prevent,.woud be a
manifest hardship, and would be deterring every one from accepting so necessary an office." That this opinion was not
based upon the fact that in England trustees usually receive no
compensation is clearly shown by the Chancellor's adding that
the same doctrine held good in the case of a receiver, an officer
of the court, and paid for his trouble; and the point decided
was that a receiver, who paid the amount of rents of 'estates in
his charge to a Bristol tradesman of good credit, taking his
bills therefor on London, was not responsible for the loss of
the money by his becoming bankrupt. Tnight v. Plymouth,
1 Dickens, 120, 126, 127; S. C. 3 Atk. 480. And the decision
was afterwards cited by Lord Hardwicke himself as showing
that when trustees act by other hands, according to the usage
of business, they are not.answerable for losses. .Eo parte Belchier, Ambler, 218, 219; S. C. 1 Kenyon, 38, 47.
In later times, as the amount and variety of English government securities increased, the Court of Chancery limited trust
investments to the public funds, disapproved investments either
in bank stock, or in mortgages of real estate, and prescribed so
strict a rule that Parliament interposed; and by the statutes of
22 & 23 Vict. ch. 35, and 23 & 24 Vict. ch. 38, and by general

LAMAR v. MICOU.
Opinion of the Court.

orders in chancery, pursuant to those statutes, trustees have
been authorized to invest in stock of the Bank of England or
of Ireland, or upon mortgage of freehold or copyhold estates,
as well as in the public funds. Lewin on Trusts (7th ed.) 282,
283, 287.
In a very recent case, the Court of Appeal and the House of
Lords, following the decisions of Lord Hardwicke, in Knight
v. Plyrmouth and Exparte Beichier, above cited, held that a
trustee investing trust funds, who employed a broker to procure securities authorized by the trust, and paid the purchase
money to the broker, if such was the usual and regular course
of business of persons acting with reasonable care and prudence
on their own account, was not liable for the loss of the money
by fraud of the broker. Sir George Jessel, IN. R., Lord Justice
Bowen, and Lord Blackburn affirmed the general rule that a
trustee is only bound to conduct the business of his trust in the
same manner that an ordinary prudent man of business would
conduct his own; Lord Blackburn adding the qualification that
"a trustee must not choose investments other than those which
the terms of his' trust permit." Speight v. Gaunt, 22 Oh. D.
727, 739, 62; 9 App. Cas. 1, 19.
In this country, there has been a diversity in the laws and
usages of the several States upon the subject of trust investments.
In New York, under Chancellor Kent, the rule seems to
have been quite undefined. See Smith v. Smith, 4 Johns. Oh.
281, 285; Twmjoson, v. Brown, 4 Johns. Oh. 619, 628, 629,
where the chancellor quoted the passage above cited from
Lord Hardwicke's opinion in KEnight v. Plymouth. And in
Brown, v. Campbell, llopk. Oh. 233, where an executor in good
faith made an investment, considered at the time to be advantageous, of the amount of two promissory notes, due to his
testator from one manufacturing corporation, in the stock of
another manufacturing corporation, which afterwards became
insolvent, Chancellor Sanford held that there was no reason to
charge him with the loss. But by the later decisions in that
State investments in bank.or railroad stock have been held to
be at the risk of the trustee, and it has been intimated that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

only investments that a trustee can safelymake without an express order of court are in government or real estate securities.
King v. Talbot, 40. N. Y. 76, affirming S. C. 50 Barb. 453;
Ackerman v. Emott, 4 Barb. 626 ; .AMills v. H'ofnan, 26 Hun,
594; 2 Kent Com. 416, note b. So the decisions in New
Jersey and Pennsylvania tend to disallow investments in the
stock of banks or other business corporations, or otherwise
than in the public funds or in mortgages of real estate. Cray
v. ox, Saxton, 259, 268; Hfaltead v. 2feek-e-r, 3 C. E. Green,
136; Lathrop v. Smalley, 8 C. E. Green, 192; lorrell's -4ipeal, 9 Penn. St. 508, and 23 Penn. St. 44; Hemphill's-Appeal,
18 Penn. St. 303; Ihmsen's .Appial, 43 Penn. St. 431. And
the New York and Pennsylvania courts have shown a strong
disinclination to permit investments in real eatate or securities
out of their jurisdiction. Ormistom v. Olcott, 84 'N. Y. 339;
Rush'e Estate, 12 Penn. St. 375, 378.
In New England, and in the Southern States, the rule has
been less strict.
In. Massachusetts, by a usage of -more than half a century,
approved by a uniform course of judicial decision, it has come
to be regarded as too firmly settled to be changed, except by
the legislature, that all that can be required of a trustee to invest is that he shall conduct himself faithfully and exercise a
sound discretion, such as men of prudence and intelligence exercise in the permanent disposition of their own funds, having
regard not only to the probable income, but also to the probable safety of the capital; and that a guardian or trustee is not
precluded from investing in the stock of banking,, insurance,
manufacturing or railroad corporations, within or without the
State.
arvarcl College v. Amory, 9 Pick. 446, 461; Lovell
v. _.inot, 20 Pick. 116, 119; JYinmonth v. Brigham, 5 Allen,
270, 277; £azrk v. GarRetld, 8 Allen, 427; Brown v. French,
125 Mass. 410; Bowker v. Pierce,130 Mass. 262. In New
Hampshire and in Vermont, investments, honestly and prudently made, in securities of any kind that produce income, appear to be allowed. Kfnowlton v. Bradley, 17 N. H. 458;'
Kimball v. Reding, 11 Foster, 352, 374; French v. Currier,47
N. 1Ff. 88, 99; Barney v. Pareons, 54 Vermont, 623.

LAMAR v. MICOU.
Opinion of the Court.

In Maryland, good bank stock, as'well as government securities and mortgages on real estate, has always been considered a
proper investment. Hammond v. Hammond, 2 Bland, 306,
413; Gray v. Lynch, 8 Gill, 403; Ajturay v. Feinour, 2 Maryland Ch. 418. So in Mississippi, investment in bank stock is
allowed. Smyth v. Bvrns, 25 Mississippi, 422.
In South Carolina, before the war, no more definite rule appears to have been laid down than that guardians and trustees
must manage the funds iu their hands as prudent men manage
their own affairs. Boggs v. Adger, 4 Rich. Eq. 408, 411;
Sear v. Spear, 9 Rich. Eq. 184, .201; Snelling v. .eCreary,
14 Rich. Eq. 291, 300.
In Georgia, the English rule was never adopted; a statute of
1845, which authorized executors, 'administrators, guardians
and trustees, holding any trust funds, to invest them in securities of the State, was not considered compulsory; and before
January 1, 1863 (when that statute was amended by adding a
provision that any other investment of trust funds must be
made under a judicial order, or else be at the risk of the
trustee), those who lent the fund at interest, on what was at
the time considered by prudent men to be good security, were
-not held liable for a loss without their fault. Cobb's Digest,
333; Code of 1861, § 2308; Browm v. TMright, 39 Georgia, 96;
.Jfoses v. Moses, 50 Georgia, 9, 33.
In Alabama, the Supreme Court, in Bryant v. Craig, 12
Alabama, 354, 359, having intimated that a guardian could not
safely invest upon either real or personal security-without an
order of court, the legislature, from 1852, authorized guardians
and trustees to invest on bond and mortgage, or on good
personal security, with no other limit than fidelity and prudence
might require. Code of 1852, § 2024; Code of 1867, § 2426;
Fdscue v. Lyon, 55 Alabama, 440, 452.
The rules of investment varying so much in the different
States, it becomes necessary to consider by what law the
management and investment of the ward's property should be
governed.
As a general rule (with some exceptions not material to the
consideratifit" of this case) the ]aw of the domicil governs the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

status of a person, and the disposition and management of his
movable property. The domicil of an infant is universally held
to be the fittest place for the appointment of a guardian of his
person and estate; although, for the protection of either,
a guardian may be appointed in any State where the person or
any property of an infant may be found. On the continent
of Europe, the guardian appointed in the State of the domicil
of the ward is generally recognized as entitled to the control and
dominion of the ward and his movable property everywhere,
and guardians specially appointed in other States are responsible
to the principal guardian. By the law of England and of this
country, a guardian appointed by the courts of one State has
no authority over the ward's person or property in another
State, except so far as allowed by the comity of that State, as
expressed through its legislature or its courts ; but the tendency
of modern statutes and decisions is to defer to the law of
the domicil, and to support the authority of the guardian
appointed there. HZoyt v. Sprague, 103 U. S. 613, 631, and
authorities cited; Xo'relt v. Dickey, 1 Johns. Ch. 153 ; Foodworth v. S }ing,4 Allen, 321 ; -3illikenv. Pratt,125 Mass. 374,
377, 378 ; Leonard v. Putnam, 51 N. H. 247; Commonwealth
v. Rhoads, 37 Penn. St. 60; Sims v. Renwilck, 25 Georgia, 58;
Dicey on Domicil, 172-176; Westlake Private International Law
(2d ed.) 48-50 ; Wharton Conflict of Laws (2d ed.) § 259-268.
An infant cannot change his own domicil. As infants ha-ve
the domicil of their father, he may change their domicil by
changing his own; and after his death the mother, while she
remains a widow, may likewise, by changing her domicil, change
the domicil of the infants; the domicil of the children, in either
case, following the independent domicil of their parent. -Eennedy v. Ryall, 67 N. Y. 379; Potinger v. Vigktman, 3 Meriv.
67; Dedham v. .fatick,16 Mass. 135; Dicey on Domicil, 9799. But when the widow, by marrying again, acquires the
domicil of a second husband, she does not, by taking her
children by the first husband to live with her there, make the
domicil which she derives from her second husband their domioil; and they retain the domicil which they had, before her
second marriage, acquired from her or from their father.

LAMAR v. MICOU.
Opinion of the Court.

Cumner v. 2filton, 3 Salk. 259; S. C. Holt, 578; Freetown,v.
Taunton,.16 Mlass. 52; School Dir-ectors v. James, 2 Watts &
Sergeant, 568; Johnson v. Copeland,35 Alabama, 521; Brown
v. Zynch, 2 Bradford, 214; fears v. Sinclair,1 West Virginia,
185 ; Pothier Introduction Gen~rale aux Coutumes, No. 19 ; 1
Burge Colonial and Foreign Law, 39; 4 Phillimore International Law (2d ed.) § 97.
The preference due to the law of the ward's domicil, and
the importance of a uniform administration of his whole estate,
require that, as a general rule, the management and investment of his property should be governed by the law of the
,State of his domicil, efpecially when he actually resides there,
rather than by the law of any State in which a guardian may
have been appointed or may have received some property of
the ward. If the duties of the guardian were to be exclusively
regulated by the law of the State of his appointment, it would
follow that in any case in which the temporary residence of the
ward was changed from State to State, from considerations of
health, education, pleasure or convenience, and guardians were
appointed in each State, the guardians appointed in the different States, even if the same persons, might be held to diverse
rules of accounting for different parts of the ward's property.
The form of accounting, so far as concerns the remedy only,
mulst indeed be according to the law of the court in which relief
is sought; but the general rule by which the guardian is to be
held responsible for the investment of the ward's property is
the law of the place of the domicil of the ward. Bar International Law, §. 106 (Gillespie's translation), 438; Wharton
Conflict of Laws, § 259.
It maybetsuggested that this would enable the guardian, by
changing the domicil of his ward, to choose for himself the law
by which he should account. Not so. The father; and after
his death the widowed mother, being the natural guardian, and
the person from whom the ward derives his domicil, may
change that domicil. But the ward does not derive a domicil
from any other than. a natural guardian. A testamentary
guardian nominated by the father may have the same control
of the ward's domicil that the father had. Wood v. Wood, 5

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

Paige, 596, 605. And any guardian, appointed in the State of the
domicil of the ward, has been generally held to have the power
of changing the ward's domicil from one county to another
within the same State and under the same law.- Cutts v. Haskins, 9 Mass. 543; Yolyoke v. Haskins, 5 Pick. 20; Kirkland
v. Wiately, 4 Allen, 462; Anderson v. Anderson,42 Vermont,
350; Exparte Bartlett, 4 Bradford, 221; The Queen v. WTitby,
L. R. 5 Q. B. 325, 331. But it is very doubtful, to say the least,
wl~ether even a guardian appointed in the State of the domicil
of the ward (not being the natural guardian or a testamentary
guardian) can remove the ward's domicil beyond the limits of
the State in which the guardian is appointed and to which his
legal authority is confined. -Douglasv. Douglas,L. R. 12 Eq.
617, 625; Dani,-Z v. Hill, 52 Alabama, 430; Story Conflict of
Laws, § 506, note; Dicey on Domicil, 100,132. And it is quite
clear that a guardian appointed in a State in which the ward
is temporarily residing cannot change the ward's permanent
domicil from-one State to another.
The case of such a guardian differs from that of an executor
of, or a trustee under, a will. In the one case, the title in the
property is in the executor or the trustee; in the other, the
title in the property is in the ward, and the guardian has
only the custody and management of it, with power to
change its investment. The executor or trustee is appointed
at the domicil of the testator; the guardian is most fitly
appointed at the domicil of the ward, and may be appointed in any State in which the person or any property of
the ward is found. The general rule which governs the administration of the property in the one case may be the law of the
domicil of the testator: in the other case, it is the law of the
domicil of the ward.
As the law of the domicil of the ward has no extra-territorial effect, except by the comity of the State where the property
is situated, or where the guardian is appointed, it chnnot of
course prevail against a statute of the State in which the question is presented for adjudication, expressly applicable to the
estate of a ward domiciled elsewhere. Hoyt v. Sffrague, 103
U. S.613. Cases may also arise with facts so peculiar or so

LAMAR v. MICOU.
Opinion of the Court.

complicated as to modify the degree of influence that the court
in which the guardian is called to account may allow to the
law of the domicil of the ward, consistently with doing justice
to the parties before it. And a guardian, 'who had in good
faith conformed to the law of the State in which he was appointed, might perhaps be excused for not having complied
with stricter rules prevailing at the domicil of the ward. But
in a case in which the domicil of the ward has always been in
a State whose law leaves much to the discretion of the guardian in the matter of investments, and he has faithfully and
prudently exercised that discretion with a view to the pecuniary interests of the ward, it would be inconsistent with the
principles of equity to charge him with the amount of the
moneys invested, merely because he has not complied with the
more rigid rules adopted by the courts of the State in which
he was appointed.
The domicil of William W. Sims during his Ilife and at the
time of his death in 1850 was in Georgia. This domicil continued to be the domicil of his widow and of their infant children until they acquired new ones. In 1853, the widow, by
marrying the Rev. Mr. Abercrombie, acquired his domicil.
But she did not, by taking the infants to the home, at first in
New York and afterwards in Connecticut, of her new husband,
who was of no kin to the children, was under no legal obligation to support them, and was in fact paid for their board out
of their property, make his domicil, or the domicil derived by
tierfromn him, the domicil of the children of the first husband.
Immediately upon her death in Connecticut, in 1859, these
children, both under ten years of age, were taken back to
Georgia to the house of their father's mother and unmarried
sister, their own nearest surviving relatives; and they continued to live with their grandmother and aunt in Georgia
until the marriage of the aunt in January, 1860, to Mlr. Micou,
a citizen of Alabama, after which the grandmother and the
children resided with Mr. and Mrs. Micou at their domicil in
that State.
Upon these facts, the domicil of the children was always in
Georgia from their birth until January, 1860, and thenceforth

,OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

was either in Georgia or in Alabama. As the rules of investment
prevailing before 1863 in Georgia and in Alabama did not substantially differ, the question in which of those two States
their domicil was is immaterial to the decision of this case;
and it is therefore unnecessary to consider whether their grandmother was their natural guardian, and as such had the power
to change their domicil from one State to another. See
Hargrave's note 66 to Co. Lit. 88 b; Reeve Domestic Relations, 315; 2 Kent Com. 219; Code of Georgia of 1861,
§§ 1754, 2452; Dalrden v. Tfyatt, 15 Georgia, 414.
Whether the domicil of Lamar in December, 1855, when he
was appointed in New York guardian of the infants, was in
New York or in Georgia, does not distinctly appear, and is not
material; because, for the reasons already stated, wherever his
domicil was, his duties as guardian in the management and
investment of the property of his wards were to be regulated
by the law of their domicil.
It remains to apply the test of that law to Lamar's acts or
omissions with regard to the various kinds of securities in
which the property of the wards was invested.
1. The sum which Lamar received in New York in money
from Mrs. Abercrombie he invested in 1856 and 185'( in stock
of the Bank of the Republic at New York, and of the Bank
of Commerce at Savannah, both of which were then, and continued till the breaking out of the war, in sound condition,
paying good dividends. There is nothing to raise a suspicion
that Lamar, in making these, investments, did not use the highest degree of prudence; and they were such as by the law of
Georgia or of Alabama he might properly make. Nor is
there any evidence that he was guilty of neglect in not withdrawing the investment in the stock of the Bank of Commerce
at Savannah before it became worthless. He should not
therefore be charged with the loss of that stock
The investment in the stock of the Bank of the Republic of
New York being a proper investment by the law of the domicil of the wards, and there being no evidence that the sale of
that stdck by Lamar's order in New York in 1862 was not judicious, or was for less than its fair market price, he was not

LAMAR v. MICOU.
Opinion of the Court.

responsible for the decrease in its value between the times of
its purchase and of its sale. He had the authority, as guardian,
without any order of court, to sell personal property of his
ward -in his own possession, and to reinvest the proceeds.
Field v. Schiefelin, 7 Johns. Ch. 150; Ellis v. Essex .Xerrimack Biqdge, 2 Pick. 243. That his motive in selling it was
to avoid its being confiscated by the United States does not
appear to us to have any bearing on the rights of these parties.
And no statute under which it could have been confiscated
has been brought to our notice. The act of July 1I, 1862, ch.
19.5, §-6, cited by the appellant, is limited to property of persons
engaged in or abetting armed rebellion, which could hardly be
predicated of two girls under thirteen years of age. 12 Stat.
591. Whatever liability, criminal or civil, Lamar may have
in curred or avoided as towards the -United States, there was
nothing in his selling this stock, and turning it into money, of
which his wards had any right to complain.
As to the sum received from the sale of the stock in the
Bank of the Republic, we find nothing in the facts agreed by
the parties, upon which the case was heard, to support the
argument that Lamar, under color of protecting his wards'
interests, allowed the funds to be lent to cities and other corporations which were aiding in the rebellion. On the contrary,
it is agreed that that sum was applied to the purchase in New
York of guaranteed bonds of the cities of New Orleans, Memphis and Mobile, and of the East Tennessee and Georgia Railroad Company; and the description of those bonds, in the receipt afterwards given by Micou to Lamar, shows that the
bonds of that railroad company, and of the cities of New
Orleans and Memphis, at least, were issued some years before
the breaking out of the rebellion, and that the bonds of the
city of Memphis and of the railroad company were at the
time of their issue indorsed by the State of Tennessee. The
company had its charter from that State, and its road was
partly in Tennessee and partly in Georgia. Tenn. Stat. 1848,
ch. 169. Under the discretion allowed to a guardian or trustee
by the law of Georgia and of Alabama, he was not precluded
from investing the funds in his hands in bonds of a railroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court

corporatioh, indorsed by the State by which it was chartered,
or in bonds of a city. As Lamar, in making these investments,
appears to have used due care and prudence, having regard to
the best pecuniary interests of his wards, the sum so invested
should be credited to him in this case, unless, as suggested at
the argument, the requisite allowance has already been made
in the final decree of the Circuit Court in the suit brought by
tie representative of the other ward, an appeal from which
was dismissed by this court for want of jurisdiction in 104 U.
S. 465.
2.- Other moneys of' the wards in Lamar's hands, arising
either from dividends which he had received on their behalf,
or from interest with which he charged himself upon sums not
invested, were used in the purchase of bonds of the Confederate States, and of the State of Alabama.
The investment in bonds of the Confederate States was clearly
unlawful, and no legislative act or judicial decree or decision of
any State could justify it. The so-called Confederate government was in no sense a lawful government, but was a mere
government of force, having its origin and foundation in rebellion against the United States. The notes and bonds issued
in,
its name and for its support had no legal value as money or
property, except by agreement or acceptance of parties capable of contracting with each other, and can never be regarded
by a court sitting under the authority .of the United States as
securities in which trust funds might be lawfully invested.
!oringtom v. Smith, 8 W1ll. 1; Head v. Starke, Chase, 312;
Horn v. Lockhart, 17 Wall. 570; Confederate Note Case, 19
Wall. 548; Sorott v. United, States, 20 Wall. 459; Fretz v.
Stover, 22 Wall. 198; Alexander v. Bryan, 110 U. S. 414. An
infant has no capacity, by contract with his guardian, or by
assent to his unlawful acts, to affect his own rights. The case
is governed in this particular by the decision in Horn v. Lookhart,in which it was held that an executor was not discharged
from his liability to legatees by having invested funds, pursuant to a statute of the State, and with the approval of fhe
probate court by which he had been appointed, in bonds of the
Confederate States, which became worthless in his hands.

LAMAR v. MICOU.
Opinion of the Courmt

Neither the date nor the purpose of the issue of the bonds
of the State of Alabama is shown, and it is unnecessary to consider the lawfulness of the investment in those -bonds, because
Lamar appears to have sold them for as much as he had paid
for them, and to have invested the proceeds in additional Confederate States boWls, and for the amount tfereby lost to the
estate he was accountable.
3. The stock in the Mechanics' Bank of Georgia, which had
belonged to William W. Sims in his lifetime, and stood on the
books of the bank in the name of hls administratrix, and of
which one-third belonged to her as his widow, and one-third
to each of the infants, never came into LamaFs possession; and
upon a request made by him, the very next month after his
appointment, the bank rofused to transfer to him any part of
it. He did receive and account for the dividends; and he
could not, under the law of Georgig concerning foreign guardians, have obtained possession of property of his wards within
that State without, the consent of the ordinary. Code of 1861,
§§ 1834-1839. The attempt to charge him for the value of the
principal of the stock must fail for two reasons: First. This
very stock had not only belonged to the father of the wards
in his lifetime, but it was such stock as a guardian or trustee
might properly invest in by the law of Georgia. Second. No
reason is shown why this stock, being in Georgia, the domicil
of the wards, should have been transferred to a guardian who
had been appointed in New York during their temporary residence there.
The same reasons are conclusive against charging him with
the value of the bank stock in Georgia, which was owned by
Mrs. Abercrombie in her own right, and to which Mr. Abercrombie became entitled upon her death. It is therefore unnecessary to consider whether there is sufficient evidence of an
immediate surrender by him of her interest to her children.
The result is, that
Both the decrees of the Circuit Court in this case must
be reversed, and the case 'remandedfo"furtherproceedings
in conformity with this opinio.

