OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

the case, the decision of them by the Court of Appeals is not
reviewable here.
The motions to dismiss are granted.

EXCHANGE NATIONAL BANK OF PITTSBURGH v.
THIRD NATIONAL BANK OF NEW YORK.
IN

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
Argued November 6, 1884.-Decided November 24, 1884.

A bank in Pittsburgh sent to a bank in New York, for collection, eleven unac
cepted drafts, dated at various times through a period of over three months,
and payable four months after date. They were drawn on "Walter M.
Conger, Sec'y Newark Tea Tray Co., Newark, N. J.," and were sent to the
New York bank as drafts on the Tea Tray Company. The New York bank
sent them for collection to a bank in Newark, and, in its letters of transmission, recognized them as drafts on the company. The Newark bank
took acceptances from Conger individually, on his refusal to accept as secretary, bt no notice of that fact was given to the Pittsburgh bank, until
after the first one of the drafts had matured. At that time the drawers
and an indorser had become insolvent, the drawers having been in good
credit when the Pittsburgh bank discounted the drafts : fed, That the
New York bank was liable to the Pittsburgh bank for such damages as it
had sustained by the negligence of the Newark bank.
The Circuit Court having, on a trial before it without a jury, made a finding
of facts which did not cover the issue as to damages, and given a judgment
for the defendant, this court, on reversing that judgment, remanded the
case for a new trial, being unable to render a judgment for the plaintiff for
any specific amount of damages.

The Exchange National Bank of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
brought this suit against the Third National Bank of the City
of New York, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of New Jersey, to recover damages for the alleged
negligence of the defendant in regard to eleven drafts or bills
of exchange indorsed by the plaintiff to the defendant for collection. The suit was tried before the court without a jury. It
made a special finding of facts and rendered a judgment for

EXCHANGE NAT. BANK v. THIRD NAT. BANK. 277
Statement of Fact&

the defendant, to review which the plaintiff has brought this
writ of error.

The facts found were these, in substance: The drafts were
drawn by Rogers & Burchfield, at Pittsburgh, to the order of
J. D. Baldwin, and by him indorsed, on "Walter.M. Conger,
Sec'y Newark Tea Tray Co., Newark, N. J.," and were discounted before acceptance, by the plaintiff, at Pittsburgh, for
the drawers. They bore different dates, from June 8, 1875, to
September 20, 1875, and were in all other respects similar except as to the sums payable, and in the following form:
"$1,04:2.75.

PrrrSBURGH,

June 8, 1875.

Four months after date, pay to the order of J. D. Baldwin
ten hundred and forty-two -fv dollars, for account rendered,
value received, and charge to account of
RoG~rs & BuRcHFIELD.
To Walter M. Conger,
See'y Newark Tea Tray Co., Newark, N. J.",
They were transmitted for collection at different times before
maturity, by the plaintiff to the defendant, in letters describing
them by their numbers and amounts, and by the words "Newark Tea Tray Co." They were sent by the defendant t6 its
correspondent, the First National Bank of Newark, enclosed
in letters describing them generally in the same way, except
that, in two of the letters they were described as drawn on
"W. M. Conger, Sec'y." The drafts were received by the defendant, in New York, within -aday or two of the time of discounting them. They were pre~inted by the First National
Bank of Newark, to Conger, for acceptance, who, except iaone
instance, accepted them by writing on the face these words:
"Accepted, payable at the Newark National B anking Co.,
Walter Al. Conger." When the acceptances were taken, the
time of payment was so far distant, that there was sufficient
time to communicate to the plaintiff the form of the acceptance,
and for the plaintiff thereafter to give further instructions as
to the form of acceptance. The Newark bank held the drafts
for payment, but the plaintiff was not advised of the form of

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

acceptance until, on the 13th and 19th of October, two of them
were returned to it by the defendant. At that time the drawers and indorser were insolvent, but the drawers were in good
credit when the drafts were discounted by the plaintiff. The
drafts were duly protested for non-payment, but none of them
were paid. The Newark Tea Tray Company is a New Jersey
corporation, doing business in that State, and Walter M. Conger is its secretary. The drafts were represented to the plaintiff by Burchfield, one of the drawers, who offered them for
discount, to be "the paper of the Newark Tea Tray Company,"
drawn against shipments of iron by Rogers & Burchfield to
that company, and were discounted as such by the plaintiff.
He also represented that Walter M. Conger was the person
who examined the shipments of iron and "accepted the drafts,"
and that they were drawn in this form for the convenience and
accommodation of the company. On drafts of Rogers &
Burchfield on the " Newark Tea Tray Co.," dated Mfay 4, 187-4,
M~ay.20, 1874, and June 30, 1874, discounted by the plaintiff,
and transmitted for acceptance to the defendant, and by it sent
to the same Newark bank, that bank took acceptances from
Walter M. Conger individually, without notice to the plaintiff;
and Conger, during the time drafts sent by the plaintiff to the
defendant, addressed to the "Newark Tea Tray Co." and to
"Walter M. Conger, Sec'y Newark Tea Tray Co., Newark, N.
J.," were in the hands of the Newark bank to procure acceptance, informed the cashier of the Newark bank that he would
not accept these drafts in his official capacity as secretary.
The judgment was in favor of the New York bank. The
Pittsburgh bank sued out this writ of error to reverse it.
f.r. John 1. Erhery and Ak. Thomas I. ACaiter
Zo
for plaintiff in error.

.Jrr.A. Q. Keasbey for defendant in error.-I. The defendants, as agents of the plaintiff in New York, sufficiently discharged their duty by sending the draft to a competent agent
in New Jersey for collection. The S. C. T,2yon, 105 TT. S. 267;
Britton v. .Yicholls, 104 U. S. 757; Allen-v. _AZerchnts' Bank,

EXCHANGE NAT. BANK v. THIRD NAT. ,BANK. 279
Argument for Defendant in Error.

22 Wend. 215.-i. Assuming that the drafts were in fact on the
Tea Company, the defendant was guilty of no negligence creating a liability for damages. The drafts were not transmitted with instructions to procure acceptance. " The transmission was made in the regular course of an ordinary business,
by a bare letter of transmission. The relation of the parties
was that of principal and agent. In order to hold the indorser
and drawer it was not necessary to present the drafts for acceptance. Daniel Negotiable Instruments, 351 ; Walker v. Stetsod, 19 Ohio, 400; Oxford Bank v. Davis, 4 Cush. 188; Fall
River Bank v. .Villard, 5 Met. (Mass.) 216. The case of Allen
v. Suydam, 17 Wend. 368, affirmed 20 Wend. 321, which
makes an exception to this rule, is questioned; Parsons Notes
& Bills, 346; and is inconsistent with sound principle. See
Beame's Lex. Mer. Chapter on Bills of Exchange, fig. 18;
Bank of WVash ington,v. Tri lett, 1 Pet. 25 ; Hamilton v. Cunnnighanm, 2 Brock. 350.-I11. The drafts were not drawn upon
the company, but upon Conger individually, and were properly accepted by him. The defendants were entitled to look
to the drafts for information as to the drawees, and if there was
obscurity it was the plaintiff's duty to dispel it. Tucker ]Jfnufacturing Coom2pany v. Fairbans,98 Mass. 101; Parol proof
cannot be given that they were intended to be drawn otherwise
than they were drawn. Cbaddock-v. Fan 3ess, 6 Vroom (35 N.J.
L.) 517. A secretary of a company has. no implied power to
accept bills. Blood v. 2farcuse, 38 Cal. 590; First Nat. Bank
v. lfogan, 47 iissouri, 472. The fact that the bills were drawn
on the secretary, who had no power to accept, shows that they
were not intended to be drawn on the company. There must
be something to show that it was intended to be the company.
Tvehe'r C'npany v. Faidranks,98 Mass. 101 ; .Toss v. Living.ton, 4 Comstock, 208; Sturdivant v. Hdll, 59 Maine, 172;
Walker v. Bank of i1reow York, 9 N. Y. 582. The drafts cannot be both on Conger and on the company. Tabor v. Cannon,
8 Met. (Mass.) 460. Where there is no other mark than the
addition of official character to the signature, it is not sufficient
to bind the corporation, but only de.scrptiopersonce. Burbank
v. Posey, 7 Bush, (Ky.) 372; Fiske v. Eldridge,12 Gray, 474;

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Cour.

Haverill Ins.Co. v.l ewhall, 1 Allen, 130 ; Fowler v. Atkinson, 6
Minn..579; Drake v. Fluelle, 33 Ala. 106; Diutto'n v. Jfarslb,
L.R. 6 Q.B. 361; Powers v. Briggs, 79 Ill. 493.-IV. Even if the
drafts are held to be on the company, they were properly presented, and were accepted.-V. If there was a failure it was
caused by a doubt on the face of the draft, and defendant cannot be held liable in tort if it did not succeed in solving that
doubt correctly. In the case of Kean v. Davis, 1 Zab. 683,

the Supreme Court of New Jersey had held that such a draft
must be deemed prima facie on the individual.

Defendant

would have been so advised had it consulted counsel. See
ferchant' Bank at Baltimore v. 3ferchants' Bank in Boston,
6 Met. (Mass.) 13.-VI. If a failure occurred it was caused by
the negligence of the plaintiff in failing to give proper information as to the party on whom the notes were drawn. As
to what is contributory negligence, see Dean v. _buiphy, 101
Mass. 455; Sherman on Negligence, 23, and cases cited, Allen
v. Suydam, 17 Wend., already cited. See also Chief Justice
Marshall's opinion in lamilton v. Cunningham, 2 Brock.
350.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHForm delivered the opinion'of the court.

He stated the facts in the. foregoing language, and continued:
The negligence alleged consisted in not obtaining acceptance
of the drafts by the Tea Tray Company, or having them protested for non-acceptance by that company, or giving notice to
the plaintiff of such non-acceptance, and in failing to give notice
to the plaintiff that the companr would not accept he drafts, or
that Conger would not abcept them in his official apacity.
The decision of the Circuit Court proceeded on the ground
that, at most, the defendant erred in judgment as to the import
of the address on the drafts; that it had no information to
qualify or explain such import; that for it to regard the drafts
as addressed to Conger in his- individual capacity was not a
culpable error, because it followed decisions to that effect made
by courts of the highest standing in New Jersey and New York
and elsewhere ; that it exercised intelligent and cautious judgment on the information it had; and that the plaintiff knew

EXCHANGE NAT. BANK v. TH11IRD NAT. BANK. 281
Opinion of the Court.
who was the intended drawee, as understood between it and
the drawers, and ought to have adised the defendant., but
failed to do so. 4 Fed. Rep. 20.
The only question presented by the record is that of the sufficiency of the facts found to support the judgment.
It is contended by the defendant, that its liability, in taking
at New York for collection these drafts on a drawee at Newark, extended merely to the exercise of due care in the selection
of a competent agent at Newark, and to the transmission of
the drafts to such agent, with proper instructions; and that
the Newark bank was not its agent, but the agent of the plaintiff, so that the defendant is not liable for the default of the
Newark bank, due care having been used in selecting that bank.,
Such would be the result of the rule established in Massachusetts, Pabens v. Jfe'ca2tile Bank, 23 Pick. 330; Doeehestei
Bank v. iVew
zv
gland Bank, 1 Cush. 177; in Maryland, Jackson v. U5ion Bank, 6 Har. & Johns. 146; in Connecticut,
Lawvmcnee v. Stonington Ba.nk, 6 Conn. 521; East Maddanz
Dank v. Scovil, 12 Conn. 303; in Missouri, Daly v. Butchers' &
D'oecr' Bank, 56 Mo. 94; in Illinois, ,Etna ZJlnurance Co.
. Alton City Bank, 25 Ill. 243 ; in Tennessee, Bank of Louisville v. Pi-'st iYational Bank, 8 Baxter, 101; in Iowa, Gueliek
v. .3ationalState Bank, 56 Iowa, 4341; and in Wisconsin, Stacy
v. Dane County Bank, 12 Wis. 629; VFilas v. Biyants,Id. 702.
The authorities which support this rule rest on the proposition,
that since what is to be done by a bank employed to collect a
draft payable at another place cannot be done by any of its
ordinary officers or servants, but must be entrusted to a subagent, the risk of the neglect of the sub-agent is upon the party
employing the bank, on the view that he has impliedly authorized the employment of the sub-agent; and that the incidental
benefit which the bank may receive from collecting the draft,
in the absence of an express or implied agreement for compensation, is not a sufficient consideration from which to legally
infer U.contract to warrant'against loss from the negligence of
the sub-agent.
The contrary doctrine, that a bank, receiving a draft or bill
of exchange in one State for collection in another State from

,282

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

a drawee residing there, is liable for neglect -of duty occurring
in its collection, whether arising from the default of its own
officers or from that of its correspondent in the other State, or
an agent employed by such correspondent, in the absence of
any express or implied contract varying such liability, is established by decisions in New York, Allen v. 2ferchants' Bank, 22
Wend. 215 ; Bank qf Orleansv. Smith, 3 Hill, 560; MMontgomery
County Bank v. Albany City Bank, 3 Selden, 459 ; 'Commercial
Bank v. Union Bank, 1 Kernan (11 N. Y.), 203; 212; Ayrault
v. Paciic Bank,.47 N. Y. 570; in :New jersey, Titzs v. -echanics' .Yational Bank, 6 Vroom (35 N. J. L.588) ;. in Pennsylvania, WFingate v. .3eehanics'Bank, 10 Penn..St. 104; in Ohio,
B2eeves v. State Bank, S Ohio St. 465 ; and in Indiana, Tyson v.
State Baik, 6 Blackford, 225. It has been so held in the
Second Circuit, in lfent v. Dawson Bank, 13 Blatchford, 237;
and the same view is supported by Taber v. Perrott,2 Gall.
565, and by the English cases of Van Wart v. Woolley, 3 B. & C.
439; S. C. 5 D. & R. 374, and Xfackersy v. Ramsays, 9 Cl. &
Fin. 818. In the latter case, bankers in Edinburgh were employed to obtain payment of,,a. bill drawn on Calcutta. They
transmitted it to their correspondent in London, who fdrwarded
it to a house in Calcutta, to whom it was paid, but, that house
having failed, the bankers in Edinburgh, being sued, were, by
the House of Lords, held liable for the money, on the ground,
that, they being agents to obtain payment of the bill, and payment having been made, their principal could not be called on
to suffer any loss vccasioned by the conduct of their sub-agents,
between whom and hi'mself no privity existed.The qu.estion under consideration was not presented in Bank
of Washington v. Triplett, 1 Pet. 25; for although the defendant
bank in that case was held to have contracted directly with the
holder of the bill to collect it, the negligence alleged was the
negligence of its own officers in the place where the bank was.
situated.
In Hoover v. Wise, 91 U. S.308, a claim against a debtor in
Nebraska was placed by the creditor in the hands of a collecting agency in New York, with instructions to collect the debt,
and with no other instructions. The agency transmitted the

EXCHANGE NAT. BANK v. THIRD NAT. BANK. 283
Opinion of the Court.
claim to an attorney at law in Nebraska. The attorney received the amount of the debt from the debtor in Nebraska,
in fraud of the bankrupt law, and paid it over to the agency, but
the money did not reach the hands of the creditor. The assignee
in bankruptcy having sued the creditor to recover the money,
this court (three justices dissenting) held that the attorney in
Nebraska was not the agent of the creditor, in such a sense that
his knowledge that a fraud on the bankrupt law was being
committed was chargeable to the creditor, on the ground that,
the collecting agency having undertaken the collection of the
debt, and employed an attorney to do so,'the attorney employed
by it, and not by the creditor, was its agent, and not the agent
of the creditor; and the creditor was held not to be liable to
the assignee in bankruptcy for the money. In the opinion of
the court it is said, that the case falls within the decisions in
the above-mentioned cases of BReeves v. $'tate Bank, 8 Ohio St.
465; .Mackersy v. 1?amsays, 9 Cl. & Fin. 818; Afontgomery
County Bank v. Albany City Bank, 3 Selden, 459; Comineical Bank v. Union Bman, 1 Kernan, 203, and Allen v. 3ferchkats' Bank , 22 Wend. 215; and it is said that those cases,
the first three of which are stated at length, show "that where
a bank, as a collection agency, receives a note for the purposes
of collection, its position is that of an independent contractor,
and the instruments employed by such bank in the business
contemplated are its agents and not the sub-agents of the owner
of the note." The court proceeds to say, that those authorities
go far towards establishing the position, that the collecting
agency was an independent contractor, and that the attorney it
employed was its agent only, and not in such wise the agent of
the defendant as to make the defendant responsible for the
knowledge of the attorney in Nebraska. The court then cites,
as a case in point, JPrdstreet v. Evee.sta, 72 Penn. St. 121,
as holding that where a commercial agency at Pittsburgh received drafts to be collected at Memphis, and sent" them to its
agent at Memphis, who collected the money and failed to remit
it, the agency at Pittsburgh was to be regarded as undertaking
to collect, and not merely receiving the drafts for transmission
to another for collection, and as being liable for the negligence

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion 6f the Court.

of its agent at Memphis. It also cites, as to the same purport, Lewis v. Peck, 10 Ala. 142, and Cobb v. Beeke, 6 Ad. & El.
930. It then says that these authorities fix the rule, before
stated, dn which the decision is rested. So far from there being anything in that case which goes to exonerate the defendant in the case at bar, its reasoning tends strongly to affirm
the principle on which the defendant must be held liable.
Indeed, its language supports the view that the Newark bank,
in this case, would not be liable directly to the plaintiff. If
that be so, and the defendant is not liable, the plaintiff is
without remedy.
The case of Britton v. 2Hiecolls, 104 U. S.
157,
is cited. to
show that the defendant is not liable. In that case, the defendants, bankers in Natchez, Mississippi, received from the
plaintiff, a resident of Illinois, for collection, two promissory
notes, dated at Natchez, but not stating any place of payment.
They were sent to the defendants, through a banking-house in
Bloomington, Illinois, with instructions to collect them, if paid,
and, if not, to protest them and give notice to the indorsers.
The defendants placed the notes in the hands of a reputable
notary in Natchez, to make demand'of payment and give notice to the indorsers. '-It was held that the defendants were
not liable for negligence on the part of the notary, whereby
the liability of a responsible indorser was released. The negligence consisted in not presenting the notes to the maker at
maturity and demanding payment. The maker resided twelve
or fifteen miles from Natchez, and had no domicile or place of
business in Natchez. No information as to his residence was
given to -the defendan-sg itli the notes, and the plaintiff was
ignorant of it. All the instructions which the defendants gave
to the notary were given on the several days the notes natured, when they handed the notes to the notary, with instructions to demand payment, and, if they were not paid, to
protest them and senl notice of non-payment to the indorsers.
The notary knew where the maker resided, and that he had no
place of business in Natchez; but he inquired for him at three
public places in Natchez, and, not finding him, protested the'
notes for non-payment, and gave notice to the indorsers. The

EXCHANGE NAT. BANK v. THIRD NAT. BANK. 285
Opinion of the Courtf

defendants had inquired at Natchez as to the residence of the
maker, but had not learned it, and had sent notices to him,
tbrough the post office there, of the amount and date of maturity of the notes, a reasonable length of time in advance.
On these facts it is apparent, that the only question raised was
as to the liability of bankers in Natchez, in respect to a note
sent to them for collection, dated at Natchez, and not payable
at any specified place there or elsewhere, for the negligence of
a public notary there. The suit was not against the bankinghouse in Bloomington, which was only the agent to transmit
the notes to the defendants for collection. The opinion of the
court states the question to be as to "the liability of the collecting bankers for the manner in which the notary to whom
the notes are delivered for presentment and protest discharges
his duty." The court says: I- The notes being dated at Natchez,
the presumption of law, in the absence of other evidence on
the subject, is, that that was the place of residence of the
maker, and that he contemplated making payment there. The
duty of the bankers, as collecting agents, was, therefore, to
make inquiry for his residence or place of business in that city,
and, if he had either, to make there the presentment of the
notes, but, if he had neither, to use reasonable diligence to find
him for that purpose." The court then refers to the case of
Al en v. .Jferclans' Bank, 22 Wend. 215, in the Court of Errors of New York, as declaring the doctrine, that a bank
receiving paper for collection is responsible "for all subsequent
agents employed in the collection of the paper," and states
that, though that decision has teen followed in New York, and
its doctrine has been adopted in Ohio, it has been generally
rejected in the courts of other States. The case of Dorchester
Bank v. .ew England Bank, 1 Cush. 171, is then cited, as
holding that if a bank acts in good faith in solecting a suitable sub-agent at the place where the bill is payable, it is not
liable for his neglect; and the opinion states that this doctrine
has been followed in the Supreme Courts of Connecticut, Maryland, Illinois, Wisconsin, and Mississippi. The court, however,
does not adopt either of these views, or rest the decision of the
case before it on the latter view. For it proceeds to say: "In

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

the New York case, in the Court of Errors, it was conceded,

that the general liability of the collecting bank might be varied
and limited by express agreement of the parties, or by implication arising from general usage; and, in some of the cases
in. other States, proof of such general usage of bankers in the
employment of notaries was permitted, and a release thereby
asserted from liability of the bank for any neglect by them."
The court then states that there was in the case no proof of
any general usage of bankers at Natchez, as to the employment of notaries public in the presentment and protest of notes
left with them for collection. IBut, as there was a statute of
Mississippi, passed in 1833, authorizing notaries to protest
promissory notes, and requiring them to keep a record of their
notarial acts in such cases, and making the record admissible
in evidence in the courts, as if the notary were a witness, and,
as the courts of that State had held, Tiernan v. Commercial
Bank, 7 How. (Miss.) 648; Agricultural Bank v. Commercial
Bank, 7 Smedes & Marshall, 592; Bowling v. Arthur, 34 Mississippi, 41, under that statute, that it was a part of the duty
of the notary, when protesting paper, to give all notices of
dishonor required to charge the parties to it, and that a bank
receiving commercial paper as an agent for collection, properly
discharged i6s duty, in case of non-payment, by placing the
paper in the hands of such notary, to be proceeded with in
such manner as to charge the parties to it, and that the bank
was not liable, in such cases, for the failure of the notary to
perform his duty, the court says, that, "judged by the law of
Mississippi," the defendants. "discharged their duty to the
plaintiff when they delivered the notes received by them for
collection to the notary public," and adds: "What more could
they have done; as intelligent and honest collecting agents,
desirous of performing all that was required of them by the
law, -ignorant,as they were, of the residence or place of business of the maker of the notes, and liaving unsuccessfully made
diligent inquiry for them?" It further says: "The notary
was not, in this matter, the agent of the bankers. Hle was a
public officer, whose duties were prescribed by law; and when
the notes were placed in his hands, in oi'der that such steps

EXCHANGE NAT. BANK v. THIRD NAT. BANK. 287,
Opinion of the Court.

should be taken by him as would bind the ,indorsers if the
notes were not paid, he became the agent of the holder of the
notes. For any failure on his part to perform his whole duty,
he alone was liable." On these grounds the court held that
the defendants were not guilty of negligence, and were not
liable for the negligence of the notary. The decision was not
placed on any general rule of commercial law, but rested on
the fact that the notary was a public officer, with duties prescribed by statute, and has no application to the case at bar.
No reference was made to the case of Hoover v. WMe, nor any

suggestion that the views stated in the opinion in that case
were doubted or dissented from.

There is, in the case at bar,

no negligence of a notary, or of a public officer, or of any person whose duties or functions are prescribed by-statute; and
the question of the liability of the defendant is to be determined on principles not involved in the actual decision in Britton v. .vicolls.
The question involves a rule of law of general application.
Whatever be the proper rule, it is one of commercial law. It
concerns trade between different and distant places, and, in the
absence of statutory regulations or special contract or usage
having the force of law, it is inot to be determined according to
the views or interests of any particular individuals, classes or
localities, but according to those principles which will best promote the general welfare of the commercial community. Especially is this so when the question is presented to this tribunal, whose decisions are controlling in all cases in the Federal courts.
The agreement of the defendamt in this case was to collect the
drafts, not merely to transmit them to the Newark bank for collection. This distinction is manifest; and the question presented
is, whether the Newark bank, first receiving these drafts for
collection, is responsible for the loss or damage resulting from
the default of its Newark agent. There is no statute or usage
or special contract in this case, to qualify or vary the obligation
resulting from the deposit of the drafts with the New York
bank for collection. On its receipt of the drafts, under these
circumstances, an imiplied undertaking by it arose, to take all

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

necessary measures to make the demands of acceptance necessary to protect the rights of the holder against previous parties
to the paper. From the facts found, it is to be inferred that
the New York bank took the drafts from the plaintiff, as a customer, in the usual course of business. There are eleven drafts
in the case, running through a period of over three months,
and the defendant had previously received from the plaintiff
two other drafts, acceptances of which it had procured from
Conger, at Newark, through the Newark bank. The taking
by a bank, from a customer, in the usual course of business, of
paper for 6ollection, is sufficient evidence of a valuable consideration for the service. The general profits of the receiving
bank from the business between the parties, and the accommodation to the customer, must all be considered together, and
form a consideration, in the absence of any controlling facts to
the contrary, so that the collection of the paper cannot be regarded as a gratuitous favor. gmedes v. Bank of Utica, 20
Johns. 372, and 3 Cowen, 662; .fcKinster v. Bank of Utica,
9 Wend. 46; affirmed in Bank of Uticav. fKinster, 11 Wend.
473. 'The contract, then, becomes one to perform certain duties necessary for the collection of the paper and the protection
of the holder. The bank is not merely appointed an attorney,
autliorized to select other agents to collect the paper. Its undertaking is to do the thing, and not merely to procure it tQ be
done. In such case, the bank is held to agree to answer for
any default in the performance of its contract; and, whether
the paper is to be collected in the place where the bank is situated, or at a distance, the contract is to use the proper means
to collect the paper, and the bank, by employing sub-agents to
perform a part of what it has contracted to do, becomes responsible to its customer. This general principle applies to all who
contract to perform a service. It is illustrated by the decision
of the Court of King's Bench, in -Ellis v. Tvrner, 8 T. R. 531,
where the owners of a vessel carried goods to be delivered at a
certain place, but the vessel passed it by without delivering the
goods, and the vessel was sunk and the goods weve lost. In a
suit against the owners for the value of the goods, based on the
contract, it was contended for the defendants that they were

EXCHANGE NAT. BANK v. THIRD NAT. BANK. 289
Opinion of the Court.

not liable for the misconduct of the master of the vessel in carrying the goods beyond the place. But the plaintiff had judgment, Lord Kenyon saying that the defendants were answerable on their contract, although the misconduct was that of
their servant, and adding: "The defendants are responsible for
the acts of their servant in those things that respect his duty
under them, though they are not answerable for his misconduct
in those things that do not respect his duty to them."
The distinction between the liability of one who contracts to
do a thing and that of one who merely receives a delegation of
authority t,- act for another is a fundamental one, applicable to
the present case. If the agency is an undertaking to do the
business, the original principal may look to the immediate contractor with himself, and is not obliged to look to inferior or
distant under-contractors or sub-agents, when defaults, occur
injurious to his interest.
Whether a draft is payable in the place where the bank receiving it for collection is situated, or in another place, the
holder is aware that the collection must be made by a competent agent. In either case, there is an implied contract of the
bank that the proper measures shall be used to collect the draft,
and a right, on the part of its owner, to presume that proper
agents will be employed, he having no knowledge of the agents.
There is, therefore, no reason for liability or exemption from
liability in the one case which does not apply to the other.
And, while the rule of law is thus general, the liability of the
bank may be varied by consent, or the bank may refuse to undertake the collection. It may agree to receive the paper only
for transmission to its correspondent, and thus make a different
contract, and become responsible only for good faith and due
discretion in the choice of an agent. If this is not done, or
there is no implied understanding to that effect, the same responsibility is assumed in the undertaking to collect foreign
paper and in that to collect paper payable at home. On any
other rule, no principal contractor would be liable for the default of his own agent, where from the nature of the business,
it was evident he must employ sub-agents. The distinction recurs, between the rule of merely personal representative agency
VOL. cx-19

OCTOBER TERM. 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

and the responsibility imposed by the law of commercial contracts. This solves the difficulty and reconciles the apparent
conflict of decision in many cases. The nature of the contract
is the test. If the contract be only for the immediate services
of the agent, and for his faithful conduct 'as representing his
principal, the responsibility ceases with the limits of the perBut where the contract looks
sonal services undertaken.
mainly to the thing to be done, and the undertaking is for the
due use of all proper means to performance, the responsibility
extends to all necessary and proper means to accomplish the
object, by whomsoever used.
We regard as the proper rule of law applicable to this
case, that declared in 'an Far v. WYoolley, 3 B. & C. 439,
where the defendants, at Birmingham, received from the
plaintiff a bill on London, to procure its acceptance. They
forwarded it to their London banker, and acceptance was refused, but he did not protest it for non-acceptance o, give
liotice of the refusal to accept. Chief Justice.Abbott said:
"Upon this state of facts it is evident that the defendants
(who cannot be distinguished from, but are answerable for,
their London correspondent) have been guilty of a neglect
of the duty which they owed to the plaintiff, their employer,
and from whom they received a pecuniary reward for their
services. The plaintiff is, therefore, entitled to maintain his
action against them, to the extent of any damage he may have
sustained by their neglect." In that case there was a special
pecuniary reward for the service. But, upon the principles
we have stated, we are of opinion that, by the receipt- by the
defendant of the drafts in the present case for collection, it became, upon general principles of law, and independently of
any evidence of usage, or of any express agreement to that
effect, liable for a neglect of duty occurring in that 'collection,
from the default of its correspondent in Newark.
What was the duty of the defendant and what neglect of
duty was there? An agent receiving for collection, bcfore
maturity, a draft payable on a particular day after date, is
held to due diligence in making presentment for acceptance,
and, if chargeable with -negligence therein, is liable to the

EXCHANGE NAT. BANK v. THIRD NAT. BANK. 291
Opinion of the Court.

owner for all damages he has sustained by such negligence.
Allen v. Suydamr, 20 Wend. 321 ; Walker v. .Bank of the State
of IYew Yoa'k, 5 Selden, 582. The drawer or indorser of such
a draft is, indeed, not discharged by the neglect of the holder
to present it for acceptance before it becomes due. Bank of
Wasingtnon v. Trilett, 1 Pet. 25, 35; Townley v. Suvrall,,2
Pet. 170, 178. But, if the draft is presented for acceptance
and dishonored before it becomes due, notice of such dishonor
must be given to the drawer or indorser, or he will be discharged. 3 Kent's Comm. 82; Bank of Washington v. Tri2 lett, 1 Pet. 25, 35 ; Allem v. Suydaim, 20 Wend. 321; TWalker v.
Bank of the State of _New York, 5 Selden, 582.; Goodall v.
Dolley, 1 T. U. 712 i Bayley on Bills, 2d Am. ed. 213. Moreover, the owner of a draft payable on a day certain, though
not bound to present it for acceptance in order to hold the
drawer and indorser, has an interest in having it presented for
acceptance without delay, for it is only by accepting it that the
drawee becomes bound to pay it, and, on the dishonor of the
draft by non-acceptance, and due protest and notice, the owner
has a right of action at once against the drawer and indorser,
without waiting for the maturity of the draft; and his agent
to collect the draft is bound to do what a prudent principal
would do. 3 Kent's Comm. 94; Robinson v. Ames, 20 Johns.
146; .Lenoxe v. Cook, 8 Mass. 460; Ballingalls v. Gloster, 3
East, 481 ; W-dtehead v. Walke, 9 Al.& W. 506 ; Taker v.
Bank of the State of YSew York, 5 Selden, 582.
In view of these considerations, it is well settled, that there
is a distinction between the owner of a draft and his agent, in
that, though the owner is not bound to present a draft payable
at a day certain, for acceptance, before that day, the agent employed to collect the draft must act with due diligence to have
the draft accepted as well as paid, and has not the discretion
and latitude of time given to the owner, and, for any unreasonable delay, is responsible for all damages sustained by the
owner. 3 Kent's Comm. 82; Chitty on Bills, 13th Am. ed.
272, 273.
The defendant being thus under an obligation to present the
drafts for acceptance, and having, in fact, presented them,

OCTOBER, TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

through the Newark bank, to Conger, the secretary of the
company, was bound not to take the acceptances it did, but to
treat the drafts as dishonored. The plaintiff was, at least, entitled to an acceptance in the terms of the address on the
drafts. Walker v. Bank of the State of I.ew Foirk, 5 Selden,
582. The defendant had notice, from the description of the
drafts by the words "Newark Tea Tray Co.," in the letters
sendhig them for collection, that the plaintiff regarded the
drafts as drawn on the company; and the defendant recognized its knowledge of the fact that the drafts were drawn on
the company, by describing them by the words "Newark Tea
Tray Co.," in its letters to the Newark bank, in every instance
but two. If, on the face of the drafts, the address was ambiguous, it was not for the defendant to determine the question,
as against the plaintiff, by taking an acceptance which purported to be the acceptance of Conger individually, especially
in view of the information it had by the words ":Newark Tea
Tray Co.," in the letters sending the drafts to it for collection.
It appears that the drafts were discounted by the plaintiff as
drafts on the company, and, if. it could have had an acceptance
in the terms of the address, it would, in a suit against the company, have been in a condition to show who was the real acceptor. But, with the information given to the Newark bank
by Conger, while that bank had in its hands for acceptance
drafts drawn in the same form as those here in question, that
he.would not accept such drafts in his official capacity as secretary, the Newark bank chose to take acceptances individual
in form. This was negligence,'for which the defendant is liable
to the plaintiff in damages, no notice of dishonor having been
given. The defendant was bound to give such notice to the
plaintiff. W'alker v. Bank of the State of .New lYrk, 5 Selden,
582.
The question as to whether the company would have been
liable on the drafts, if they had been accepted in the terms of
the address, is not one on the determination of which this suit
depends; nor do we find it necessary to discuss the-question as
to whether, on the face of the drafts, the company or Conger
individually is the drawee. The very existence of the ambigu-

EXCHANGE NAT. BANK v. THIRD NAT. BANK. 293
Opinion of the Court.,
ity in the address, and of the question as to whether the company would be liable on an acceptance in the terms of the
address, is a cogent reason why the defendant should not be
allowed, without further communication with the holder, to do
acts which may vary the rights of the holder, without responding in damages therefor. The risk is on the defendant and not
on the plaintiff.
It is, therefore, plain that the judgment must be reversed: But
judgment cannot be now rendered for the plaintiff for damages.
There must be a new trial. Although there is a special finding
of facts, it does not cover the issue as to damages. No damages
are found. The action is one for negligence, sounding in
damages. Although the complaint alleges that the drawers
and the indorser are discharged for want of notice of non-acceptance, and though it is found that the drawiers were in good
credit when the drafts were discounted, and that the drawers
and indorser had become insolvent'by the 13th and 19th of
October, 1875, there is nothing in the finding of facts on which
to base a judgment for an specific amount of damages. On
the new trial, that question will be open, and we do not intend
to intimate any opinion on the subject.
Thejudgment of the Circuit Court is reversed,with direction
to award a new trial.
Tradesman'sN11ational -Bank of Pittsburghv. Thirc N1ational
Bank o.f New Yor4. In error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of New Jersey. This suit presents, in all
material -respects, the same facts and qdestions as the case
of. the Exchange National Bank against the same defendant,
No. 86, just decided. The only points of difference, as to the
facts found, are these: The drafts are seven in number, and bear
different dates, from June 21, 1875, to August 10, 1875. The
letters from the plaintiff to the defendant, transmitting them for
collection, described them by their numbers and Amounts, and one
of the letters' from the defendant to the Newark bank described
the enclosed draft as "Conger, Tr." There is no finding that
when the acceptances of Conger were taken by the Newark bank,
the time of payment of the drafts was so far distant that there
was sufficient time to communicate to the plaintiff the form of ac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

ceptance, and for the plaintiff thereafter, if such communication had
been made, to give further instructions as to the form of acceptance. The plaintiff was not advised of the form of the acceptance
until the first draft was protested for non-payment and returned
to it, at which time the drawers and indorser were insolvent.
There is no finding as to the taking by the Newark Bank of any
acceptances from Conger individually, of drafts drawn on the
Newark Tea Tray Company, and there is a finding that when the
drafts were presented to Conger by the Newark bank he declined
to accept them in his official capacity. These differences are immaterial, under the views held in No. 86.
T7ejudgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, with direction
to award a new t-ial.

HEIDRITTER v. ELIZA-BETH OIL-CLOTH CO]MPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE CmCUrT COURT OF THE U'ITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
Argued November 7, 8, 18S4.-Decided November 24,1884.

Where proceedings in rem are commenced in a State court and analogous proceedings in.rem in a court of the United States, against the same property,
exclusive jurisdiction for the purposes of its own suit is acquired by the
court which first takes possession of the res; and while acts of the other
court thereafter, necessary to preserve the existence of a statutory right,
may be supported, its other acts in assuming to proceed to judgment and
to dispose of the prcperty convey no title.
A derived title to the premises in suit through a seizure by officers of the
United States for violation of the internal revenue laws, and condemnation
and sale of the same in the Circuit Court of the United States: B derived
title to the same premises under judgment and decree in a State court to
enforce a mechanic's lien. The proceedings in the State court were commenced and prosecuted to judgment after the marshal had taken the
premises into his possession and custody under the proceedings in the Circui
Court: Held, That B did not hold the legal title of the premises as against
A claiming under the marshal's sale and the decree of the District Court.

This was an action of ejectment for the recovery of certain
real estate and the improvements thereon, situated in the City

