LABETTE COUNTY COM-MIS'RS v. MOULTON.

217

Syllabus.
any person, are not strictly criminal cases, in which the decisions of the Circuit Court axe final, unless a division of opinion
is certified; but they are civil actions, of which this court has
jurisdiction in error, without regakd to the sum or value in dispute. Rev. Stat. § 699; Pettigrew v. United States,'97 U. S.
385. Yet, as has been expressly adjudged, they are so far in
the nature of criminal proceedings, as to come within the rule
that a general verdict, upon several counts seeking in different
forms one object, must be upheld if one count is good. Clifton
v. lUnitM States, 4 ]low. 242, 250. As one of the counts in this
case is admitted to 'be good, it is unnecessary to consider the
objections taken to the other counts.
The verdict, though expressed in bad English, clearly manifested the intention and finding of the jury upon the issue submitted to them, and the court rightly gave judgment upon it.
Rev. Stat. § 954; Parks v. Turner, 12 How. 39, 46; Lincoln
v. 1r'of C'o., 103 U. S. 412.
Judgment cs/jb'm¢d.

LAETTE COUNTY COMMISSIONERS & Others v.
UNITED STATES ex 'el. MOULTON.
LN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
Submitted October 24, 1,84.-Decided November 17, 1884.

Mandamus will lie against county commissioners to compel steps to enforce a
judgment recovered against an incorporated township within the county,
when the law casts upon them the duty of providing for its satisfaction, and
when mandamus is, in other respects, the proper remedy.
Under the statutes of Kansas referred to in the ease and opinion, it was the
duty of the county commissioners to make the proper levy of a tax for
payment of bonds of a township in the county issued in payment of a subscription to railroad stock. The assent and concurrence of the trustee of
the township was not necessary.
One writ of mandamus against all officers concerned in the separate but cooperative steps for levying and collecting a tax is the proper and effective
remedy to enforce its collection.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

The relator, on June 7, 1877, recovered a judgment in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Kansas,
against the township of Oswego, in the county of Labette, in
that State, for $9,221.31, with interest and costs, which is still
in force and unpaid. That judgment was recovered upon coupons for unpaid interest on bonds, issued in the name and on
behalf of Oswego township, by the Board of County Commissioners of Labette County, pursuant to the act of the Legislature of the State, entitled "An Act to enable municipal town-.
ships to subscribe for stock in any railroad and to provide for
the payment of the same," approved February 25, 18,70, and
were payable to the Missouri, Kansas & Texas Railway Company or bearer.
On his information, an alternative writ of mandamus was allowed by the Circuit Court, June 10,1881. The command of the
writ was as follows: That " the said Board of County Commissioners of Labette County, State of Kansas, do forthwith levy
and collect and pay over, or cause to be collected and.paid over,
to the relator, a tax on all the taxable property within the
township of Oswego as constituted in the year 1870, and to do
and perform in the manner and at the time required by law
each and every and all singular the matters and things in
respect to this special tax that are required by law by you to
be done in respect to general taxation ; and we do further command that you, the said clerk of the said board of the said
county, do enter or record the levy of such tax, and enter the
same on a tax roll or list, and record the proceedings of said
board in respect to such taxation, and all proceed'ags that by
law should be had and recorded in reference to taxation, and
determine, extend and carry out the sum or sums of money to
be levied or extended against each and every tract or lot of
land, and all other taxable property, as provided by said laws,
and set down such tax in a separate column, and complete the
said tax roll or list in the manner and at the time required by
law, and attach thereto your certificate and the seal of your
office and the seal of your county and corporation, and that you
deliver the same, so sealed and signed, to the treasurer of your
said county, at the time and in the manner required by law, and

LABETTE COUNTY COMMIS'RS v. MOULTON.

219

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

that you do and perform in the proper manner and at the proper
time each and every act and thing by law required to be done
in respect to taxation; and we command you, the said treasurer of said county, to accept and receive the said tax roll or
list from said clerk, and to proceed a8 .provided by law to collect such tax and to publish the list required by law, and to
distrain for said tax, and to advertise lands for sale for the nonpayment of such tax, and to offer the same for sale, and to
strike them off at such sale, all to be done in the manner and
at the time required by law, and to take each and every and
all and singular the process and proceedings, and do and perform each and every act and thing imposed upon you by the law
in respect to the enforcement or collection of taxes, the same in
respect to this tax as to other and general taxes, at the time and
in the manner provided by law, and that you pay the said
moneys to the relator, or into this court for his use."
To this the respondents jointly and severally demurred, and,
for causes of demurrer, assigned the following:
1. Because the court has no jurisdiction of the persons of the
respondents or the subject of the action.
2. Because of defect of parties defendant.
3. Because several causes of action are improperly joined.
4. Because the writ does not state facts sufficient to entitle
the relator to the relief demanded against the respondents.
This demurrer was overruled by the Circuit Court, and a peremptory writ of mandamus awarded (see 2 McCreary,-25), to
reverse which judgment this writ of error has been sued out.
-Mr. B. . Perkdins for plaintiffs in error.-I. This is a proceeding to enforce against a county (Labette) a judgment
obtained against a township in that county (Oswego). In Kansas a township is an independent corporation. Comp. Laws
1879, § 5965. The county officers were in no way connected
with the former suit. Hence this is an original action; and it
is settled that circuit courts have no original jurisdiction in acfarb' ly v. -Madison, 1 Cranch, 137;
tions of mandamus.
.fo-Inte v. WVood, 7 Cranch, 504; Bath County v. Amy, 13
Wall. 244; Graharn v. Nortarn, 15 Wall. 427.-I1. The officers

OCTOBER TERM,

1884.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

of the township of Oswego should have been made respondents in this suit. The failure to make them so is a fatal defect.
-II.
There were several causes of action improperly joined.
-IV. The writ (lid not state facts sufficient to entitle the relator (defendant in error) to the relief demanded against the
respondents and against each and all of them. Mandamus is not
a prerogative writ. It is in the nature of an ordinary action
between the parties, and a writ of right only to the extent to
which the party aggrieved shows himself entitled to the relief
sought. Cilman v. Bassett,33 Conn. 298; Arberry v. Beavers,
6 Texas, 457; .Kendall v. United States, 12 Pet. 524; Cornmonweal v. Dennison, 24 How. 66. Mandamus issues only
when there is a clear legal right, without another adequate legal
remedy. It never issues in doubtful cases. FeePresAssooiation
v. Nichols, 45 Vt. 7; People v. Solomon, 46 Ill. 415 ; Peoplev.
CMcago, 51 Ill. 1, 28; United States v. 0lark County, 95 U. S.
769, 773. When the rights, or acts to be performed are wholly
independent, not one wvrit, but several, will be awarded, and
the application should be several. Hence the writ must be
good as to all demands, and as against all respondents, or it is
bad in whole and as to all. People v. Yates, 40 Ill. 126; State
v.B eloit, 20 Wis. 79, 85; faskin v. Supervisors of Scot Oounty,
51 Mississippi, 406 and authorities cited. It is well settled
that mandamus will not issue -until the officer against whom
it is asked is in default; and he is not in default until
he has been in a condition to perform the act desired, and
has, after demand by the party who has the right to have
it performed, refused to perform it. The duties of these
officers are distinct 'under the laws. A county clerk cannot
act respecting a tax till the commissioners have acted; the
treasurer cannot act until the county clerk has acted. This
proceeding asks that the commissioners shall levy a tax and
deliver the tax roll to the clerk ; that the clerk shall enter it
and deliver the roll to the treasurer; that the treasurer shall
collect the tax; and this though none of the officers were
parties to the original suit. How could the commissioners be
in default if they were not parties to the original suit? or the
clerk be in default till the treasurer had performed his duty?

LABETTE COUNTY COMM31IS'RS v. MOULTON.

921

Opinion of the Court.

or the treasurer be in default until the clerk had performed his?
We know that the recent case of Cherokee County v. Tiscon,
109 U. S. 621, will be cited against us on these points; but we
ask a reconsideration of the question.
_31r. S.

. Brown for defendant in error.

MR. JUSTICE MATTHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.

He stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
The objeQtion that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction to
issue its mandamus to the plaintiffs in error is based upon the
supposition that because they are not parties to the judgment
against Oswego Township, and are not officers of or representatives of that municipal corporation, but are officers of the
county of Labette, the proceeding against them is the exercise.
of an original jurisdiction, which does not belong to that court.
It is quite time, as it is familiar, that there is no original jurisdiction in the Circuit Courts in mandamus, and that the writ issues
out of them only in aid of a jurisdiction previously acquirdd,
and is justified in such cases as the present as the only means
of executing their judgments. But it does not follow because
the jurisdiction immandamus is ancillary merely that it cannot
be exercised over persons not parties to the judgment sought to
be enforced. An illustration to the contrary is found in that
class of cases of which .Yripjpendo-,f v. Hyde, 110 U. S. 276, is
an example.
The question is, whether the respondents, to whom the writ
is addressed, have the legal duty to perform, which is required
of them, and whether the relator has a legal right to its performance from them, by virtue of the judgment he has already
obtained. If so, then they are, as here, the legal representatives
of the defendant in that judgment, as being the parties on
whom the law has cast the duty of providing for its satisfaction.
They are not strangers to it, as being new parties, on whom an
orfginal obligation is sought to be charged, but are bound by
it, as it stands, without the right to question it, and under a
legal duty to take those steps which the law has prescribed as
the only mode of providing means for its payment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884..
Opinion of the Court.

It is next objected that the trustee of Oswego Township is
a necessary party in the mandamus, as the officer charged by
law with the duty of levying and collecting the tax for the
payment of judgments against it; or at least whose. concurrence in the levy is made necessary to the \valid action of the
county commissioners.
The statutes of Kansas which govern this qaestion were considered by this court in the case of Cherokee County Commisoners v. Wilson, 109 UT. S. 621. It was there held to be the duty
of the county commissioners, when the office of township
trustee was vacant, to levy the tax upon the township property
for the payment of township debts, under the general law regulating the subject. In the present case it does not appear
that there was no trustee of the township who could act. But
we are of opinion that in regard to bonds issued for railroad
purposes, and to judgments rendered thereon, for principal or
interest, as in the present case, the concurrence of the trustee
of the township is not necessary to the levy of the tax necessary for their payment, but that the duty is laid upon the commissioners of the county to levy the tax upon the township
for that purpose. This we think is the fair result of a comparison
of the various provisions on the subject contained in the original legislation under which the bonds were issued, with the
amendments passed and in force at the time these proceedings
were begun, including the act of March 9, 1874, Session Laws
of Kansas, 1874, p. 41, and see. 6, ch. 107, Laws of Kansas,
1876. Indeed, it was expressly decided in Cherokee County
F&on, ubi svupra, that in no event was the
Comnmissioners v. IV
assent and concurrence of the township trustee necessary to the
action of the commissioners of the county, as the latter were
required to levy all taxes required by law upon the township,
even though the township trustee refused to consent; and
when it was a matter of discretion and expediency, the judgment of the county commissioners was paramount. As to the
bonds upon which the relator's judgment is founded, we think
it was the legal duty of the commissioners of the county to
make the proper levy of a tax for their payment, without
regard to the trustee of the township.

LABETTE COUNTY COM3IIS'RS v. MOULTON.

223

Opinion of the Court.

It is further objected that the demurrer to the alternative
writ of mandamus should have been sustained by the Circuit
Court, on the ground of a misjoinder of parties defendant,
it being alleged that the duty requled of the county clerk
and that of the county treasurer were separate and -distinct
from each other, and from that of the county commissioners,
that neither the clerk nor the treasurer could act in the collection and payment of the tax until after its levy by the commissioners, and that as to each of those officers it was shown on
the face of the writ that he could not be in default.
The clerk and the treasurer do not, it will be observed, make
returns to the alternative writ of their willingness to perform
their several duties in reference to this tax when the time for
them to act shall arrive; nor are they satisfied with several
demurrers to the writ, on the single ground that, as to them, it
is premature and therefore defective by reason of the misjoinder; but they join with the county commissioners in demurring to the writ, on the ground that it does not state facts
sufficient to entitle the relator to the relief demanded. Their
position in the rec6rd is not altogether consistent with the presumption they claim the benefit. of, that they will each perform
the duty required of him by the law when the time arrives for
its punctual performance.
But the objection does not apply in the present case.
Speaking of the writ of mandaomus, as employed here, this
court, in Riggs v. Johnson County, 6 Wall. 166-198, described
it as "a proceeding ancillary to the judgment which gives
jurisdiction, and, when issued, becomes a substitute for the ordinary process of execution to enforce the payment of the same,
as provided in the contract." An ordinary execution upon a
judgment at law commands the officer to whom it is addressed
to perform a series of acts-to levy on goods and chattels,
lands and tenements of the judgment debtor, and, if on the
latter, to appraise their value, to advertise the same for sale, to
make sale of the same at the time and place and in the manner
prescribed by law, and apply the proceeds to the payment of
the judgment-and these are to be performed successively.
There is no incongruity in such a writ. It would not be com-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

plete or effective without it embraced all the particulars which,
in law, are essential to the full duty contemplated by it, the
performance of which is necessary to secure its benefits to .the
party who sues it out. So here, the object of this writ, though
including many particular steps in obeying it, is, nevertheless,
single, in that it is intended to obtain an end which is the result of the means prescribed. The command of the writ is to
perform the general duty, which is obeyed by performing the
successive steps which constitute it. Clearly, the writ would
not be chargeable with duplicity if addressed to one person, although it commanded the performance of a series of acts, each
of which was a condition of the performance of its successor,
where the right of the relator consists in the result legally
flowing from the combined whole. It can make no difference in
principle that in a particular case the law, instead of casting
the performance of the entire duty upon a single person, has
divided it among several, each to perform but one act in the
series, and each acting independently and not as responsible to
any of the others, but all required to co-operate in the attainment of the single result, and by a continuous and uninterrupted
succession, so as to preserve the integrity and unity of the performance as an entire duty.
The relator is entitled to an effective writ, and he can have it
only on the terms of joining in its commands all those whose
co-operation is by law required, even though it be by separate
and successive steps, in the performance of those official duties,
which is necessay to secure to him his legal right. Otherwise
the whole proceeding is liable to be rendered nugatory and
abortive. For the levy and collection of a tax is not only an
entire thing, although accomplished by successive steps and by
separate officials, but is a continuous transaction, each one
taking it up where his predecessor left it; and if the relator was
compelled to obtain a separate mandamus against each person
charged with the performance of a single service, the very
delay and break in the continuity of the process might be, by
the terms of the law itself, a sufficient answer to each succeeding writ; and if it were not, it would prolong the proceeding
to such indefinite length as to deprive the writ of the very

LABETTE COUNTY COMS'RS v. MOULTON.

225

Opinion of the Court.
character of a remedy. So that, if such a precedent could be
regarded as an innovation upon established practice, it could not
be considered a departure from the principle of the jurisdiction;
for, to quote what Lord Mansfield said in Rex v. Bar er, 3
Burr. 1267, "The original nature of the writ, and the end for
which it was framed, direct upon what occasions it should be
used. It was introduced to prevent disorder from a failure of
justice, and defect of police. Therefore it ought to be used
upon all occasions where the law has established no specific
remedy, and where in justice and good government there ought
to be one."
The present writ, however, is not without precedent, modern and ancient. It is, indeed, precisely like that which was
passed upon in the case of the Cakrokee Coznty Commissioners
v. Wilson, zebi supra, although there the objection was made
by the commissioners alone, who, it was held, were not entitled
to complain on that account.
In the case of Farns-uzorth v. Boston, 121 Mass. 173, cited
and approved in Attarney-General v. Boston, 123 Mass. 460,
where an owner of land, assessed to pay for an improvement,
had, under the statute, a right to surrender his estate, and receive compensation for its value, which the city council sought
to defeat by an attempted vacating of the assessment, which it
was held they could not lawfully do, a, mandamus was issued,
not only to the city council to take the land, but also to the
mayor to sign the description and statement, although he could
not do so, or be in default for not doing so, until the city
council had passed an order taking the land, and although he
might, by the statute, sign the description %nd statement at
any time within sixty days after the taking.
The case of The King v. The 2fayor and Burgesss of Tregony, 8 Mod. 111, was a motion for a peremptory mandamus,
where a former raan&lnmus was directed to the mayor and
burgesses of Tregony, in Cornwall, commanding them, "quod
author'itatemvestram,
elgetis et juretis majorem, &c., se",clunc
&c." "It was moved," says the report, "for a supersedeasto
that mandlarnu, for that the writ was not good, because it was
directed to the mayor and burgesses to elect and swear a
VOL. cxH-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

mayor, whereas the power of electing is only in the burgesses,
and the power of swearing in the mayor alone; so that the
mayor cannot make a return of this writ as directed to him
to elect; nor the corporation as directed to them to swear a
mayor, so that if ihe burgesses should make a return as to the
swearing part, they would be usurpers, and if they do not
make a return, they will be in contempt of this court. Besides, it is incongruous for a mandamus to be directed to sVear
a mayor not yet elected," &c. But the court were all of opinion in this case that they ought to make a return, for the writ
commanding them "quod eligets et jureti&secundwuln uuthoritatem vestram," it shall be taken reddendo singula Singulis, and
to be the return of both. Accordingly, a return having been
made, the objection was renewed, and was further argued, but
the court remained of .the same opinion on this point, and on
the final argument for a peremptory writ, it was finally said
(p. 128): "The objection to the writ is that it is directed ' To
the mayor and burgesses to elect and swear a new mayor,'
which is wrong; for though the mayor and burgesses are to
elect, yet it is the mayor alone who must administer an oath
to the person, for the burgesses cannot; therefore, this direction is wrong. But this may receive a very plain answer by a
reasonable construction of te matter distributively in the manner as directed by the writ, the words being ' eligetis et juretiUs
secundunm. authoirtatem vestr' m, so that it is a writ to the body
corporate to elect, they having the inheritance as to the election of a mayor; and it is a writ to the mayor, who has a
special power to swear the person elected into the office; so
that reddendo singula singulis,the writ is well directed. And
it could not be otherwise, unless there had been two writs
granted, the one to elect, and the other to swear the person
elected ; so that this, being a ministerial writ, is so far good."
The same point had been previously raised and decided in
The Zing v. TIe Mayor of Abingdon, 1 Ld. Raym. 559, by
Chief Justice Holt, who said: "There have been a hundred
writs directed to the mayor and aldermen of London in cases
of acts to be done by them separately." The report continues:
"The second exception to the writ was to that part of the writ

BRADSTREET COMPANY v. HIGGINS.
Counsel for Parties.

which commanded the mayor to swear Sellwood and Spinnage,
that they sued this too soon; for a mandamus ought not to go
until the officer has refused to do the act and his duty; or at
least that there was some person who had right to have the
thing done to them; which was not in this case, because they
were not yet elected. That this was to sue a mandamus quia
timet, and, like the case of an original bearing teste, before the
cause of action accrued. But per Holt, Chief Justice, it willbe well enough in this case, because they are acts depending
the one upon the other; first, they ought to elect him, and then
the mayor ought to swear him. And the writ was held good
and the return disallowed, and a peremptory mandamus was
granted."
We are of opinion, therefore, that there is no error in the
judgment of the Circuit Court, and it is accordingly
A 2 wrmed.

BRADSTREET COMPANY v. HIGGINS.
IN ERROR TO THE CMCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF

ISSOURI.

Submitted October 27, 1884.-Decided November 17,1884.

When the jurisdiction of this court for review of the judgments and decrees of
circuit courts depends upon the amount in controversy, that amount is the
sum shown by the whole record, including counter-claims, and not by the
claims set up by the plaintiff only. HUiltonv. D ckinson, 108 U. S. 165, affirmed.

This was a motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction, it being alleged that the amount in controversy was not sufficient
to give jurisdiction. The facts are stated in the opinion of the
court.
.3fr. T1.Hallett Philli ps (Mr. Carles I. Dobson was
with him) for the motion.
Xr. Yenry Wise Garn'ett,opposing.

