MIDDLETON v. MULLICA.
Opinion of the Court.

express no opinion, because to our minds it is clear that Richardson, by voluntarily releasing, without the consent of Heey
Traver, a part of his junior security on block two to enable
Hyde to raise the money to discharge the debt to Dickson,
was not subrogated to the rights of Dickson under hi- original
security on block one. If Traver had been consulted and had
consented to the keeping alive of the Dickson notes to take the
place of the security of Richardson which had been released,
the case would have been different, but as property bound for
the Dickson debt was in fact used to pay it with the consent
of the junior encumbrancer, no lien upon other property for the
security of the Dickson debt can be kept alive for the benefit
of the releasing junior encumbrancer without the consent of
those whose interests in the other property are to be affected.
The payment to Dickson discharged the debt and all that pertained to its continued existence.
Dreore c ffflrned.

MDDLETON v. IVULLICA TOWNS=IP.
IN

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
Argued October 17, 1884.-Decided December 8, 1884.

An act of the legislature of New Jersey constrted,-to the effect that it authorized certain township officers to execute bonds for the township to raise
money for bounties to volunteers.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
-fr. F. C. Brewster and -r. F. C. Brewster, Jr., for plaintiff in error.
.M. P. Z. 'Foorheesfor defendant in error.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action of debt brought in the couk -below to t~eMr. JUSTICE BRADLEY
-oL. oxn-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

cover the amount of six bonds (or alleged bonds) of the town.
ship of Mullica, in the county of Atlantic and State of iNew
Jersey, one being for $500 and the others for $1,000 each. The
declaration also contains the common money counts. A copy
of the instruments sued on was annexed to the declaration, all
being in the following form:
"United States of America, State of New Jersey.
"[Bond No. 146.]
Amount, $1,000.
"The township of Mullica, county of Atlantic, acknowledge
themselves indebted to Samuel Crowley in the sum of one
thousand dollars, lawful money of the United States; which
sum they promise to pay to the said Samuel Crowley, or to his
order, two years after date hereof, with interest at the rate of
six per centum per annum, payable annually, the aforesaid sum
of one thousand dollars having been borrowed of said Samuel
Crowley, by order of said township committee, pursuant to a
resolution passed January 1, 1864; interest payable at th6 State
Bank at Camden.
"In witness whereof, the said township committee have
caused this bond to be sealed with their seal, and attested by
the signatures of their president and clerk, this 31st day of December, A. D. one thousand eight hundred and sixty-four.
"[L. s.]
EDW'D T. MoKEAl, Clerk.
TimoTRY HENDERSoN, President."
[U. S. Revenue Stamp, 50 cents.]
By one series of counts (six in number) these instruments
were severally declared on as the writings obligatory of the
township, sealed with its seal, and made payable and delivered
to Crowley, as agent of the township, to assist it in piassing
away and transferring the bonds to raise money thereon for its
use and benefit. In another series of counts (also six in number) the instruments are severally declared on as orders of the
township, made by its authorized agents, Henderson, president,.
and MkcKean, clerk, of the township committee, and made payable to Crowley as the agent of the township to pass them
away and raise money on them for the township. All the

NMTDLETON v. MULLICA.
Opinion of the Court.

counts averred that Crowley indorsed and delivered the bonds
or orders to the plaintiff. The defendant pleaded non estfactum
to the first six counts (those in which the instruments were declared on as bonds), and nil debet to the others, and the slatute
of limitations (of six years) to all of them.
At the trial, the plaintiff proved the execution of the bonds
by Henderson, president, and McKean, clerk, of the township
committee, and the indorsement of them by Crowley to the
plaintiff; and also put in evidence a book, called the defendant's bond book, produced by the defendant on the call of the
plaintiff, and having the following heading: "Issue of bonds
by the township of Iviullica in pursuance of a resolution adopted
January 1, 1864.12 At page 7 plaintiff read the following list
of bonds:
Date of Bond.

Dec. 31, 1864.
"9

Xumber. Amount.

145
146
1417
148
149
150

$500
1,000
1,000
1,000
1,000
1,000

To whom iZd.

When due.

Samuel Crowley. Dec. 31, 1866.
"
"
c
" ,
c
"

To show that the bonds were executed by lawful authority,
the plaintiff read two acts of the legislature of New Jersey.
The first (approved March 4, 1864) was entitled "An Act to
legalize certain acts of the township of Mullica, in the county
of Atlantic, relative to raising money to pay bounty to volunteers and to provide for the payment of the same," and recited
and enrcted as follows:
"Wa7 Eis the inhabitants of the township of Mullica, in the
county of Atlantic, did, on the first day of January, Anno
Domini eighteen hundred and sixty-four, vote to pay a bounty
of two hundred and twenty-five dollars to each person volunteering to fill the quota of said township under the calls of the
President of the United States (the said quota being thirtyfour); and whereas the said inhabitants having no authority,
under the laws of the State, to offer said bounty or borrow
money for the payment of the same; therefore,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
. Opinion of the Court.
"1. Be it enacted by the Senate and Genea Assembly of the
State of _frew Jrsey That the said township of Mullica be
authorized to provide for the payment of said bounties the
sum of seven thousand six hundred and fifty dollars, and the
interest thereon, by the issuing of their bonds, or township
orders, bearing interest at the rate of six per centum per annum, and payable at such times as the township committee of
said township may determine; Provided, that not less than
fifteen hundred nor more than twenty-five hundred dollars
shall be raised for the purpose of paying said bonds or orders
in any one year, including the interest thereon.
"3. And be it enacted,That the acts and doings of the township committee and of the inhabitants of the said township of
M ullica, mentioned in the first section of this act, to raise seven
thoiusand six hundred and fifty dollars, and the interest thereon,
to pay bounties to volunteers as aforesaid, to fill the quota
of the said township, are valid in all respects and binding
upon the inhabitants and taxable property of said township."
The other act is not material to the case and need not be
recited.
Upon the evidence thus presented the court below ruled out
the bonds and directed a verdict for the defendant, and the
plaintiff excepted. The question raised by the bill of exceptions is, whether this direction was erroneous ; and this involves
the question whether the officers who executed the bonds had
any authority to do so.
An examination, of the organic laws of the State of New
Jersey shows that the inhabitants of the several townships in
the different counties are corporate bodies, being authorized, at
their annual or special town meetings, "to vote, grant, and
raise such sum or sums of money for the maintenance and support of the poor; the building and repairing of pounds; the
opening, making, working, &c., of roads; the destruction of
.noxious wild animals and birds; for running and ascertaining the lines, and prosecuting or defending the common rights
.of such township, and for other necessary charges and legal
objects and purposes thereof as are or shall be by law ex-

MIDDLtTON v.

=tJLLICA.

Opinion of the Court.

pressly vested in the inhabitants of the several townships of
this State by this or some other act of the legislature."
They are also authorized, at their annual meetings, to elect a
clerk, assessors, collectors, commissioners of appeal in matter
of taxes, chosen freeholders to represent the township in the
county board, surveyors of highways, overseers of the poor,
constables, and a judge, of election; and in addition, to these
officers, all having their appropriate duties to perform, they
are also, by special provision, authorized " to elect five judicious
freeholders, resident within the township, who shall be denominated the towns ip committee, a majority of whom shall be a
quorum, and shall continue in office one year and'until others
are chosen in their stead, which committee shall have authority,
and it is hereby rendered their duty, to examine, inspect, and
report to the annual or other town meetings the accounts and
vouchers of the township officers, and to superintend the expenditure of any moneys raised by tax for the use of the township, or which may arise from the balance of the accounts of
any of the township officers." Besides the duties here specified the township committee is invested with certain other
powers, such as, in certain cases, to fill vacancies in the other
township offices caused by death, removal, refusal to serve, &c.,
and to call special town meetings when they may deem it
necessary; but they have no general authority to act for the
township. This must be conceded; and it is clearly shown by
the cases cited by the counsel for the defendant.
At the same time, it must be admitted that, in view of the
peculiar functions and duties of the township conimittee, they
are altogether the most appropriate officers of the township for
the performance of such a duty as the issuing of township
bonds, whenever such bonds are authorized to be issued, since
the township itself has no permanent presiding officer, or bead,
bv, . only a temporary chairman, called a moderator, who simply
presides over the town meeting by which he is appointed. The
question then arises, did the act of March 4, 186-, give the township committee authority to issue the bonds in question? If
the act is carefully examined it will be seen that it not only
ratified the proceedings of the town meeting held on the 1st of

OCTOBER TERAI, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

January, 1864, voting a bounty of $250 to each person volunteering to fill the quota of the township, but that it authorized
the township to provide for the payment of said bounties by
issaing its bonds at six per cent. interest payable at such times
as the township committee might determine. It ratified what
had been resolved by the town meeting, and authorized the issue
of township bonds to carry that resolution into effect. The
question then arises, who were the proper persons to issue the
The town meeting itself certainly could not do it. Is
bonds
it not the plain inference of the statute that the bonds should
be issued under the direction and supervision of the township
commitfee, as they were to fix the time of payment, and were
the only body which had the general superintendence of the
township finances?
And here it is proper to notice that the proceedings of the
town meeting on the 1st of January, 1864, were not given in
evidence. Of course, the defendants had them in their possession, and could have produced them. We only know so much
of said proceedings as is recited in the act of the legislature.
It is possible that the town meeting, besides voting the bounties
referred to in the act, directed the township committee (as
would be natural) to issue the obligations of the township for
the purpose of raising the money requisite to pay such bounties.
On this point, the bond-book of the township may be entitled
to much weight. It professes to exhibit the "Issue of bonds
by the township of Mullica in pursuanceqf a resolutionadopted
Janualry1, 1864 " and it enumerates in that category the bonds
in question in this suit. That is to say, the township book declares and shows that the bonds in suit were issued in pursuance
of a resolution adopted January 1, 1864; and this declaration
stood there on the book from 1864, when the bonds were issued,
until the trial of the suit in 1871. The resolution thus referred
to must, of course%have been part and parcel of the proceedings
relating to bounties to be paid to volunteers, which were ratified by the act of March 4, 1864.
Taking all these things together, we-are satisfied that, by the
said act, which ratified the said proceedings, expressly including
(as it does) "the acts and doings of the township committee,"

FORTIER v. NEW ORLEANS BANK.
Syllabus.

as well as'of the inhabitants of the township, and authorizing
the issub of bonds to carry out their intentions with such time
of payment as the township committe( should determine, it was
the intention of the legislature to authBorize the execution and
issue of such bonds by the township committee.
There can be little doubt that this conclusion is in accordance
with the justice of the case. Money was raised on these bonds.
The plaintiff testified that he purchased them for value of
Crowley (the payee), and received them from Orowley, or
Henderson, or McKean, he could not recollect which. Evidently the township officers were concerned in the transaction.
At all events, the plaintiff purchased them and paid for them;
and they were duly entered in the township bond-book as bonds
of the township, and there can be little doubt that the township
reaped the benefit of the transaction. We have no doubt that
they are the valid obligations of the township, and that the
court below erred in ruling them out, and in directing a verdict
for the -defendant. They ought at least, to have been given to
the jury under the evidence in the case.
The judgment of the Cireuit Court i8 reversed, and the case
remanded with direetiont to awdrd a venirefacias de novo.

FORTIER v. NEW ORLEANS NATIONAL BANK.
NEW ORLEANS NATIONAL BANK v. FORTIER.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOE
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Argaed November 17, 1084.-Decided December 1, 1884.

A bill was brought in the name of A. B. "in his capacity as president of the
N. 0. National Bank." Throughout the pleadings and all proceedings
below it was treated as the suit of the bank. After appeal it was assigned
for error that it was the suit of A. B., and, as A. B. and the defendant were
citizens of the same State, that this comt was without jurisdiction. Held,
That the defendant was boand by the construction put upon the bill below,
and that the objection to jurisdiction was too late.

