OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

STATE OF MARYLAND, for use of Markley, v. BALDWIN & Others.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.
Arg-ed November 13, 14, 1834.-Decidea December 15, 1884.

A suit on an administrator's bond, taken in the name of a State for the benefit
of parties interested, is, for the purposes of jurisdiction, to be regarded as
a suit in the name of the party for whose benefit it is brought.
Testimony as to admissions and conduct of a deceased person cannot be impeached by proof of that person's statement concerning the character of the
witness testifying to them.
If one of the issues at a trial be whether parties cohabiting together in a State
in which marriage is a civil contract, to which no attending ceremonies are
necessary, were man and wife, it is the duty of the court to direct the jury,
in the absence of statutory regulations on the subject, to the necessity of
proof of some public recognition of the marriage, by which it can be known,
or reputation of the relation may obtain.
A general verdict upon distinct issues raised by several pleas cannot be sustained if there was error as to the admission of evidence, or in the charge
of the cont, as to any one of the issues.

This was a suit on an administrator's bond taken in the name
of the State of Maryland for the benefit of the parties interesvid. It was commenced in a State court of - Maryland,
against citizens of Maryland, and was removed to the Circuit
Court of 'the United States on the ground that the real party
in interest was a citizen of New Jersey. The facts raising the
questions of jurisdiction, and the questions on the merits, are
all fully stated in the opinion of the court.

A36. Albert c0n2slable for plaintiff in error.
3fr. Arc/ibald Sterling, Tr., for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action, brought for the use of Markley, a citizen
of N ew Jersey, upon the bond of the administrators of the
estate of Daniel Lord, deceased, who died intestate in 1866, in
Cecil County, Maryland, of which State he was at the time a

3LARYLAND v. BALDWIN.
Opinion of the Court.

citizen, and in which he owned real and personal property. It
was commenced in the Circuit Court of that county. The
defendants are citizens of Maryland.
Markley filed his affidavit setting forth his citizenship and
that of the defendants, and that he had reason to believe and
did believe that, from prejudice and local influence, he would
not be able to obtain justice in the State court. The action
was thereupon removed to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district. It would appear somewhat singular
that a party should aver his inability to obtain justice, from
the causes stated, in an action brought for his benefit in the
name of the State in one of, her own courts, but from the fact
that the State is only a formal plaintiff, the actual litigation
being between the other parties.
By the law of Maryland the bond of an administrator is
taken to the State, but is held for the security of persons interested in the estate of the deceased. The name of the State is
used from necessity when a suit on the bond is prosecuted for
the benefit of a person thus interested, and, in such cases, the
real controversy is between him and the obligors on the bond.
If the residence of these parties be in different States, the Circuit Court of the United States has jurisdiction.
A statute of Virginia in force in 1809 required'bonds given
by executors for the faithful execution of their duties to be
made payable to the justices of the peace of the county where
letters were issued, but allowed suits to be brought upon them
at the instance of any party aggrieved; and in Browne v.
Strode, 5 Cranch, 303, this court held that the Circuit Court of
the United States for the district had jurisdiction of an action
upon such a bond in the name of the justices of the peace for
the use of a British subject, though the defendants were citizens of Virginia, the real controversy being between them and
an alien.
A statute of Mississippi in force in 1844 required sheriffs-to
execute bonds to the governor of the State for the faithful
performance of their duties, which coald be prosecuted by any
party aggrieved, until the whole penalty was recovered. In
Jfo3Tl'rtt v. Bland, 2 How. 9, an action was brought in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Mississippi in the name of the governor for the use of citizens of New
York against defendants who were citizens of IM'ssissippi, and
on demurrer it was held that the Circuit Court had jurisdiction, this court observing that there was a controversy and a
suit between citizens of New York and citizens of Mississippi,
and there was neither between the governor and the defendants,
that as an instrument of the State his name was on the bond
and to the suit, but in no just view of the Constitution could
he be considered as a litigant party. ":Both," it added, "look
to things not names-to the actors in controversies and suits,
not to the mere forms or inactive instruments used in conducting them, in virtue of some positive law." The justices of the
peace in the one case and the governor in the other were mere
conduits 'through whom the law afforded a remedy to persons
aggrieved, who alone constituted the complaining parties. So
in the present case the State is a mere nominal party; she
could not prevent the institution of the action, nor control the
proceedings or the judgment therein. The case must be
treated, so far as the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the
United States is concerned, as though Markley was alone
named as plaintiff; and the action was properly removed to.
that court.
The declaration, after stating the appointment by the Orphan's
'Court of Cecil County of two of the defendants as administrators, and the execution of the bond by them as principals,
and by the other defendants as sureties, alleges that the administrators took possession of the personal property of the
deceased, paid all his debts, and on the 23d of October, 1867,
passed their account, showing such payment, and that there
was in their hands for distribution the sum of $24,439.43. It
also alleges that Iarkley is a child and heir-at-law of the deceased, and as such entitled to one-fourth part of the personal
estate of which he died possessed; that the administrators have
not distributed the surplus in their hands as required by law,
but have refused to pay him the portion to which he is entitled, although requested so to do, and that thus they have not
discharged their duty.

24ARYLAND v. BALDWIN.
Opinion of the Court.

The defendants filed several pleas, in substance as follows:
1st. That M£arkley was not one of the heirs of the deceased,
and therefore not entitled to a distributive share of his estate;
2d. That the administrators had fully administered upon the
estate and had no property of the deceased, and had not had
since the commencement of the action;
3d. That the personal estate of the deceased was insufficient
to satisfy the debts which they had paid;
4th. That before the commencement of the action they had
paid to creditors of deceased an amount which, with the expenses of administration, exceeded the value of his whole personal
estate which had come into their hands; and
5th. That they had compromised with Marldey for his claim
against the estate, both real and personal, and paid him $3,500,
which he had received in full satisfaction and discharge of his
claim.
Upon these pleas issues were joined and tried by the court
with a jury, which found a general verdict for the defendants.
Judgment having been entered, the case was brought here on
writ of error.

On the trial evidence was introduced bearing upon all the
issues, and if any one of the pleas was, in the opinion of- the
jury, sustained, their verdict was properly rendered, but its generality prevents us from perceiving upon which plea they found.
If, therefore, upon any one issue error was committed, either in
the admission of evideffce, or in the charge of the court, the
verdict annot be upheld, for it may be that by that evidence
the jury were controlled under the instructions given.
Upon the issue made by the first plea, evidence was introduced to establish a marriage between Markley's mother and
the deceased. It showed that her maiden name was Rebecca
Markley; that whilst retaining that name, she lived with him,
he passing also by the name of Markley; that they had several
children; that to her sisters and to one Cross, his son-in-law, he
frequently spoke of her as his wife; that he so called her in
their presence, and she called him her husband, and to the doctor who attended her during her confinement he spoke of her
as his wife. No witness was present at any marriage ceremony,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Coint.

or at any contract of marriage between the parties; a marriage
was inferred from their declarations and their living together.
In explanation of his adopting her name of Markley, one of the
sisters states that he .informed her that he .desired to keep his
marriage secret from his mother, as she was'a Quakeress and
hostile to his marriage out of the society to which she belonged.
On the c sher hand, it appeared, from Qther witnesses, that his
being married was never communicated to his family; that
neither his brothers, sisters, nor intimate companions and associates ever heard of it; and that his mother was an Episcopalian, and therefore his professed reason for keeping his
marriage secret from her was a mere pretence to conceal his
actual relations to the woman with whom he was living, whatever they were. Cross testified that the deceased had admitted
to him his marriage- with Miss Markley, and had given the
reason mentioned foy concealing his own name and taking hers;
also, that the deceased had great confidence in -him, and after
Rebecca's death had spoken of his marriage and stated that he
owed to her all his early success. One of the defendants, called
as a witness for the defence, was permitted, against the objection of the plaifitiff, to testify to conversations with the decefsed
about Cross, and that the deceased had expressed great distrust
of him, calling him anything but an honest man, and stating
that Cross had been in the penitentiary, and that it had cost
-the deceased 500 to get him out. This testimony was clearly
inadmissible; it was mere heresay. Testimony as to the admissions and cpnduct of a person cannot be impeached by his
statements to a third party as to the character of the witness.
The evidence, too, was material. It tended-directly to discredit
Cross and thus weaken the force of his statements respecting
the asserted marriage. It is impossible to say what effect it
may have had on the minds of the jury on the question of the
marriage.
As the case must, for this error, go back for a new trial, it is
proper to say that, by the law of Pennsylvania, where, if at all,
the partieswere married, a marriage is a civil contract, and may
be made per verb de prcesenti, that is, by words in the present
tense, without attending ceremonies, religious or civil. Such is

ARTHUR v. MORGAN.
Syllabus.

also the law of many other States in. the absence of statutory
regulation. It is the doctrine of the common law. But where
no such ceremonies are required, and no record is made to attest the marriage, some public recognition of it is necessary as
evidence of its exister-.e. The protection of the parties and
their children and considerations of public policy require this
public recognition; and it may be made in any way which can
be seen and known by men, such as living together as man and
wife, treating each other and speaking of each other in the
presence of third parties as being in that relation, and declaring
the relation in documents executed by them whilst living together, such as deeds, wills, and other formal instruments. From
such recognition the reputation of being married will obtain
among friends, associates, and acquaintances, which is of itself
evidence of a persuasive character. Without it the existence of
the marriage will always be a matter of uncertainty; and the
charge of the court should direct the jury to its necessity in the
absence of statutory regulations on the subject. Otherwise the
jury would be without any guide in their deliberations.
The law of Pennsylvania, as we are advised, requires, in some
form, such recognition. See -Vath an's Case, 2 Brewster, 149,
153; Commonwealth v,Shwnp, 53 Penn. St. 132.
Judgment reversed and cause ''emanded for a new trial.

ART=UR, Collector, v. MORGAN.
IN

ElhEOR

TO

THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Submitted November 2G, 1884.-Decided December 22, 1884.
A carriage in use abroad for a year by its owner, wno brings it to this country

for his own use here, and not for another person nor for sale, is "household effects" under 2305 Rev. Stat. (p. 484, 2d ed.), and free from duty.
A protest against paying 85 per cent. duty on the carriage, which states that
the carriage is "personal effects," and had been used over a year (as shown

