. 344

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

BRANDIES & Others v. COCHRAiTE & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Argued November 17, 18, 1884.-Decided December 1, 184.
F conveyed to NV, as trustee, real estate in Illinois on trust to permit F's
wife to use and occupy and receive the rents and profits dnring her lifetime and to her own use, and at any time to convey on the written request
of F And the wife, to the person designated, and in case of the wife's death
in the husband's lifetime to convey to the husband for life with remainder
to their children: Held, That, under the laws of Illinois in force when the
rights of the parties became fixed, a judgment creditor of F had no lien at
law upon his interest in the property, and could acquire one only by filing
a bill in equity.
At the common law (in force in Illinois when the rights of the parties became
fixed), the lien of a judgment against one having a power of appointment,
with the estate vested in him until, and in default of, appointment, was
liable to be defeated by execution of the power, even though the purchaser
had actual notice of the judgment.
The general doctrine in equity that where a person has a general power of
appointment, and executes this power, the property appointed is deemed,
in equity, part of his assets, cannot be in~oked to support a claim of a
judgment lien at law upon the antecedent estate, which the exercise of the
power had displaced.

This was a bill in equity, filed by the appellants, the object
and prayer of which was to quiet their title to the ieal estate
described, situated in Chicago, as against the adverse claims of
the appellees. The question in the case was whether the appellants had the legal title to the premises in controversy.
The facts necessary to its determination were as follows:
In March, 1866, the complainants below, now the appellants,
recovered a judgment in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern District of fllinois against Robert Forsythe,
one of the appellees, and George T. Braun, for. $9,665.49 aid
costs, on which execution was issued during the year, and returned not levied, because no property was found on which to
levy.
Prior thereto, in 1861, Robert Forsythe had purchased the
real estate described in the bill, with his own means, from
Horatio G. Loomis, and, according to his directions, a deed

BRANDIES v. COCHRANE.
Statement of Facts.

was made by Loomis conveying the property to William R.
Arthur, as trustee, and to his heirm and assigns, upon the following trusts therein expressed: "To permit Mary E. Forsythe, wife of Robert Forsythe, of Chicago, to use and occupy,
enjoy and receive the rents and profits of said lands and premises, for her life and to her own use, and at any and all times,
upon the order or request in writing of said Mary E. Forsythe
and the said Robert Forsythe jointly, to convey said lots, or
either or any part of them,. to such person or persons as they
may designate; and in case said Mary E. shall die without
issue in the lifetime of her said husband, then to convey said
lands to said Robert Forsythe for life; immediately after the
decease of said Mary E., to hold to him and his use for life,
and to his child or children, if. any lawfully begotten, in fee
simple and remainder, to their use and to them equally as
tenants in common. But if said Robert shall die without lawful issue, then to the children of his brother, Leonard E. Forsythe, and the children of Lydia T. Warrack who may be in
being at the time of said Robert's decease, in fee simple and
remainder, to their use and to them equally as tenants in common. And in case said Robert shall die without lawful issue
in the lifetime of said Mary E., then to convey said lands and
premises to her for life immediately after the death of said
Robert, to hold to her and her own use for life, and to the
children of said Leonard E. Forsythe, and the children of said
Lydia T. Warrack, who may be in being at the time of said
Mary's decease, in fee simple and remainder as aforesaid, to
their use and to them equally as tenants in common. But if
hereafter said Robert shall have child or children born of his
said wife or of any future wife, then instead of the conveyance
aforesaid to the children of said Leonard E. Forsythe and
Lydia T. Warrack, said trustee is to convey said lands to said
Mary E. or to said Robert (as the one may chance to survive
the other), to her or his use for life as aforesaid, and to the
child or children who may be so born to them or him, in fee
simple and remainder, to their use and to them equally as
tenants in common."
Subsequently, upon proper proceedings for that purpose, this

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

deed was' reformed and corrected by a decree in chancery,
whereby it was provided that the conveyance of said Arthu;
the trustee, to be made on the request of the said Robert and
Mary E. Forsythe, when made, should be in fee simple, absolute, and should operate to cut off the several trusts thereafter
specified in said original conveyance to Arthur.
This tproperty was improved by Robert Forsythe by the erection thereon of a dwelling-house, and was occupied by himself
and wife as a residence at the date of the recovery of the appellants' judgment and subsequently during the life of Mrs.
Forsythe.
:Robert Forsythe, on March 26, 1868, was, on his own petition, adjudged a bankrupt by the District Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Illinois, and on July 21,
1868, obtained his discharge.
On November 3, 1869, Robert Forsythe and Mary E. Forsythe joined in a written request to Arthur, the trustee, directing him to convey the premises in controversy to Nathan Corwith, in fee simple. Mrs. Forsythe died on January 1, 1870,
leaving no issue, and on January 4, 1870, Arthur, in pursuance
of the appointment previously made, conveyed the property to
Corwith, as directed. This conveyance was in form absolute,
but it is claimed that it was intended merely as security for an
indebtedness due to Corwith from Forsythe. At any rate,
Corwith conveyed the property to Robert Forsythe by a deed
dated March 12, 1870, and the latter, by a deed of trust dated
March 10, 1870,'in anticipation of the conveyance to himself,
conveyed it to George Scoville, as trustee, to secure to John
Cochrane $15,000 which the latter had lent to Forsythe, and
out of which Corwith had received the amount due -him.
On May 9, 1870, the appellants caused an alias execution to
be issued on their judgment and levied on the premises as the
property of Robert Forsythe; on June '7, 1870, it was sold
under this execution to them, on a bid of the amount due on
their judgment, and on September 9,1871, the time for redemption having elapsed, they received a deed from the marshl.
conveying the title to them.
Robert Forsythe being in default for non-payment of interest

BRANDIES v. COCHRANE.
Argument for Appellants.

on the debt to Cochrane, Scoville executed the power of sale under the deed of trust to him, by a sale to James D. Wallace on
April 17, 1872. The latter had, just prior thereto, on March 8,
1872, acquh'ed whatever title to the premises, if any, had vested
in the assignee in bankruptcy, bya sale and conveyance thereof
from him. Thereupon Wallace re-conveyed the premises, with
some additional property, to George Scoville, as trustee, to
secure the whole amount of principal and interest due to Cochrane, amounting, with the expenses of the transaction, to $17,000, the amount specified in the deed of trust. This arrangement was made for the better security of the debt due to
Cochrane, John Forsythe having become, in consideration
thereof, a guarantor of the notes given therefor.
On May 27, 1872, the complainants, having taken possession
under their claim of title, filed the present bill of complaint, to
which Wallace and Robert Forsythe were made defendants,
praying to have their title quieted as against them.
On May 1, 1876, Scoville executed the power of sale under
the deed of trust to him, and sold the property embraced therein,
including the premises in controversy, to Cochrane, who, on
July 13, 1876, was admitted as a party defendant, and filed his
answer and cross-bill, claiming title in himself, and praying for
a decree for relief. On final hearing, the original bill was dismissed and a decree rendered upon the cross-bill of Cochrane as
prayed for. An appeal was taken from that decree.
.X,. John S. -onk for appellants.-I. On the face of the
trust conveyance, an interest was given to Robert Forsythe, on
which the lien of appellants' judgment attached. The words
used being insufficient to raise a trust for the separate use of the
wife, the deed, in effect, gives the first life estate to Robert,
with remainder to Mary for life. Bowen v. Sebtee & Tfrife, 2
Bush, 112; W1a7de v. Fisher et al., 9 Richardson Eq. 362; aTi3pclase v. ยฃ&mpson, 16 Sim. 485; Vills v. Sayer, 4 Madd. 409;
Jfenshigtom v. .Dolland; 2 Mlyl. & K. 184; Austin v. Austin,
4 Ch. D. 236; Tyler v. Lake, 2 Russ. & Myl. 183; Iartly v.
Hurle, 5 Yes. 540. Conceding the trust to be for ter separate
use, Robert took a vested remainder for life. Jull v. Jacobs,

348

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Appellants.

3 Ch. D. 707; Lainsom v. Lainson, 18 Beav. 1; TFeston v.
Wfeston, 125 Mass. 268; Darlingv. Blanchard,109 Mass. 176 ;
TVight v. Shaw, 5 Cush. 56; TV76ite v. Curtis., 12 Gray, 54;
Blanehar v. Blan4hard,1 Allen, 223. The lien of the judgment attached to Robert's interest, whether vested or contingent. Wtdte v. AoPheeters, 75 Mo. 286; Williams v. Amory,
14 Mass. 20; Eelly v. _Morgan, 3 Yerg. 437; -Lockwoodv. _Nye, 2
Swan, 515; Wiley v. Bridgnan,1 Head, 68; Burton v. Smnith,
13 Pet. 464; Tyndale v. Ware, Jacobs, 212; Smith v. .Angell, 2
Ld. Raym. 783.-I1. Was the lien divested by the exercise of
the alleged power of appointment? (1.) Forsythe's interest
hawing passed to the assignee in bankruptcy, subject to the lien
of the judgment, could not be defeated, nor the lien displaced
by a subsequent exercise of the iower. -Doev. Britain,2 B. &
A. 93. (2.) The power was extinguished ijro tanto by the
judgmeht. Carr v. IIoford, 3 Yes. 650; Cox v. Chamberlain,
4 Yes. 631; Jraund;,ell v. Afaundrell, 7 Yes. 567; Pay v.
Pung, 5 B. & A. 561; Doe-v. Jones,10 B. & C. 459 ; S7eees v.
Shearley, 8 Sim. 153; 3 Myl. & Craig, 112; Taylor v. Stibbert,2
Yes. 437; Wtite v. 1HcPheeters, '75 Mo. 286. (3.) The alleged
appointment to Corwith, being by way of mortgage, could, as
against creditors, operate only pro tanto, if at all. Skeeles v.
Shearley, 3 Myl. & Craig, 112; IWte v. jfcPeeters,'75 Mo.
286; Jones v. Clifton, 101 U. S. 225.-IIL. The power reserved
to Forsythe gave him the equitable fee on which a lien was
created by the judgment. The Illinois statute, in force now,
and at the date of the deed in trust to Arthur, and also at time
of the rendition of judgment, regarding the force and effect of
English common law and statutes, is as follows: See. 1. "The
common law of England, so far as the same is applicable and
of a general nature, and all statutes or acts of the British Parinament made in aid of, and to supply the defects of the common law, prior to the fourth year of James the first, excepting
the second section of the sixth chapter of the forty-third
Elizabeth, the eighth chapter of thirteenth Elizabeth, and
ninth chapter of thirty-seventh Henry Eighth, and which
are of a general nature, and not local to that kingdom, shall be
the rule of decision, and shall be considered as of full force

BRANDIES v. COCHRANE.
Opinion of the Court.

until repealed by legislative authority." Johnson v. Cushing, 15
N. I. 298 ; lassello v. Cornwallis, 2 Vern., 65; .Iolnes v. Coghill, 12 Yes. 265;' Tarbuck v. .arbury, 2 Vern. 510; Smith v.
luerst, 10 Hare, 30.-IV. The judgment was a lien on Forsythe's estate in reversion, which, on the revocation of the trusts
declared in the deed to Arthur, became absolute. TFilliarsv.
Amory, 14 Mass. 20; Eelley v. .organ, 3 Yerg. 437; Lockwood v. N17ye, 2 Swan, 515; Wiley v. Bridgman, 1 Head, 68;
.1ickey v. IHilman, 2 Halst. 180; Burton v. Smith, 13 Pet. 464;
Jacobs v. TFare, 3 Jacobs, 212; Smith v. .Angell, 2 Ld. Raym.
783; Barlow v. Salter, 17 Yes. 479; Conklin v. Conklin, 3
Sandf. Ch. 64; Anderson v. Jackson, 16 Johns. 382.-V.
Cochrane was not entitled to protection as a bona fide purchaser. Gibson v. Jones, 5 Leigh, 370; Peck v. reck, 9 Yerg.
301; Boone v. Childs et al., 10 Pet. 177.
.1r'. George W. Smith (Xr. Edwin F. Bayley was with him)
for appellees.

Mm_J.
JsTwic, I
=mws delivered the opinion of the court.
He stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
It is manifest that it is vital to the appellants' case, that
they should maintain and establish a judgment lien upon the
estate of Robert Forsythe, in the premises in controversy, at
the date of the recovery of the judgment in 1866 ; because the
discharge in bankruptcy of Forsythe, in 1868, released him
from all personal liability on account of the judgment, so that
the subsequent levy of an execution in 1870 could have no
effect except to enforce a lien subsisting at the time of the
adjudication in bankruptcy.
it is accordingly contended on behalf of the complainants,
that their judgment took effect at its rendition as a lien upon
an equitable estate for life, reserved to Robert Forsythe by the
terms of the deed of trust to Arthur, which was not and could
not be displaced by the appointment by virtue of which the
conveyance was made by Arthur, the trustee, to Corwith; that
the power of appointment secured to Forsythe and wife
operated to subject the entire estate, which could be disposed

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

of under that power, and which was the fee simple, to the
claims of creditors reduced to- judgment; and that Robert
Forsythe had an equitable reversion in fee in the trust estate
by reason of the failure of the ultimate limitations alleged to
be void for remoteness, as they were to take effect, according
to the terms of the trust, only after an indefinite failure of
issue, which reversion in fee was subject to the lien of judgments
against him.
The statute of Illinois in force at the time and governing
the case was Rev. Stat. 1845, ch. 57, ยง 1, which, after providing that judgments should be a lien on the real estate of the
judgment debtor, provided as follows: "The term ' real estate'
in this section shall be construed to include all interest of the
defendant or any person to his use, held or claimed by virtue
of any deed, bond, covenant or otherwise, for a conveyance or
as mortgagee or mortgagor of lands in fee, for life or for
years."3
Except so far as modified by this act, the common law on the
same subject was in force in Illinois by express adoption. Rev.
Stat. 1845, ch. 62, ยง 1.
In Spindle v. Shreve, 111 U. S. 542-548, it was stated to be
the law in Illinois that where the legal title to lands is in trustees, for the purpose of serving the requirements of an active
trust, the judgment creditor had no lien and could acquire none
at law, but could obtain one only by filinga bill in equity for
that purpose, according to the provisions of ยง 49 of the Chancery Practice Act of that State. Rev. Stat. 1845, p. 97. It
was otherwise if the trust was merely passive, such as those
described in the section defining real estate as subject to the
lien of judgments, already quoted. iller v. *Davidson,8 Ill.
518; Baker v. Copenba ger, 15 Ill. 103 ; Thornas v. Eckard, 88
Ill. 593.
The rule at common law and the corresponding jurisdiction
of chancery as to equitable estates are fully explained in Aforsell v. First -NationalBank, 91 U. S. 357; -Lessee of Srlitk
v. AfeCann, 24 How. 398; FTreedman'sSavings and Trust Co.
v. Earle,.110 U. S. 710.
In the present instance the trust was an active one, not

BRANDIES v. COCHRANE.
Opinion of the Court.

merely passive. At no time during the lifetime of his wife
could Robert Forsythe call for, or compel from the trustee, a
conveyance of the legal title. On the contrary, the trustee
was required by the terms of the trust, subject to the power of
appointment, to retain the legal title in himself, and to permit
Mrs. Forsythe to use and occupy the property, and to enjoy and
receive the rents and profits thereof during her life and to her
own use; language which, if it cannot be properly construed
to devote it to her separate use, all the more required the protection secured to her actual right by the legal title being
vested in a trustee. The estate of Robert Forsythe, therefore,
under the trust, whether for life or in fee, whether vested or
contingent, was equitable merely, and of that nature which
could not be subjected to sale for payn-ent of his debts except
by the aid of a court of equity. In such cases no lien arises
by operation of law from the .judgment, but only on the filing
of the bill.
On the contrary supposition, that the estate of Robert Forsythe, under the deed of trust to Arthur, was subject at law to
the lien of the appellants' judgment, their title still must fail.
Prior to the enactment of 1 and 2 Vie., ch. 110, it -was settled in England that at law a judgment against the party having a power of appointment, with the estate vested in him
until and in default of appointment, was defeated by the subsequent execution of the power in favor of a mortgagee. Doe
v. Jones, 10 B. & C. 459 ; Tnstall v: T'apres,3 Sim. 286, 300.
And it was held to be immaterial that the purchaser had notice of the judgment, FEato v. Sanxter, 6 Sim. 517; or that a
portion of the purchase money was set aside as an indemnity
against it, Skeeles v. S&early, 8 Sim. 153; S. C. on appeal, 3
Mlyl. & Cr. 112. In that case, Sir John Leach, the vice-chancellor, decided that the effect of the transmission of the estate
by appointment was, that the appointee takes it in the same
manner as if it had been limited to him by the deed -under
which the appointor takes in default of appointment, and, consequently, free and disconnected from any interest that the appointor had in the tenements in default of appointment; that,
as the appointee is in no sense the assignee of the appointor,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

he cannot be affected by judgments which affect only the
estate and interest of the appointor, and, that being so, the
circumstance of his having notice of such judgments is ,immaterial.
The statute of 1 and 2 Vict., c. 110, altered the law in this
respect, by making judgments an actual charge on the debtor's
property, where he has, at the time the. judgment is entered up
or at any time afterwards, any disposing power over it, which
he might, without the assent of any other person, exer:se for
his own benefit; so that it would continue to bind the property,
notwithstanding any appointment. 2 Sugden on Powers, 7th
Lond. Ed. 33; Burton on Real Property, 8th Lond. Ed. 283;
Hotham v. Sne'mville, 9 Beav. 63.
In Illinois the definition of that real estate which is made
subject at law to the lien of judgments, was enlarged by the
act of July 1, 1872, Turd's Rev. Stat. 1882, p. 676, so as to include "all legal and equitable rights and interests therein and
thereto ;" but the rights of the parties in this suit are not affected by it, and must be governed by the principles of the
common law in force when they became fixed.
It is indeed a rule well established in England, and recognized in this country, that where a person has a general power
of appointment, either by deed or by will, and executes this
power, the property appointed is deemed, in equity, part of his
assets, and' subject to the demands of his creditors in preference to the claims of his voluntary appointees or legatees.
This rule is stated by Mr. Justice Gray in Clapp v. Ingra7am,
126 Ma'ss. 200, to have had its origin, perhaps, in' a decree of
Lord Somers, affirlhed by the House of Lords, in a case in
which the person executing the pow-er had, in effect, reserved
the power to himself in granting away the estate. Tzom.son
v. Towne, Prec. Oh. 52; S. . 2 Vern. 319. But it was frequently afterwards applied to cases of the execution of a general power of appointment by will, of property of which the
donee had never any ownership or control during his life. -2.
re Harney's Estate, L. 1R. 13 Ch. Div. 216. That doctrine, however, has no application in the present case for several reasons.
The appellants did not seek such relief in equity as against the

BRANDIES v. COCHRANE.
Opinion of the Court.

estate created by the exercise of the power of appointment by
Robert Forsythe, but claimed a lien at law upon the antecedent estate, which that exercise of the power had displaced
and defeated. At the time when that might have been done,
their judgment had ceased to be a debt against him. by reason
of his discharge in bankruptcy, and the appointees, Corwith
and Cochrane, were not volunteers but purchasers for value.
It is further said, however, that the bankruptcy itself cut off
the power of appointment in Forsythe. If so, it passed to the
assignee in bankruptcy for the benefit of the estate and its
general creditors; was exercised by the sale at which Wallace
became the purchaser, and vested in him a complete title by
virtue of the appointment, displacing and defeating the limitations under the original deed of trust to Arthur; and then
passed to the appellees by virtue of the conveyance from Wallace to Scoville. But it was held in Jones v. Clifton, 101 U.
S. 225, that such a power of appointment does not pass to an
assignee in bankruptcy of the person in whom the power resides.
The case of Wfite v. -JcPheeters,75 Missouri, 286, cited and
relied on by counsel for appellants, does not decide the only
question involved here. That case arose under the Missouri statute, which appears to be broader than that of Illinois
in its definition of real estate subject to seizure and sale on executions at law; and was, in fact, a proceeding in equity by a
creditor's bill to subject the estate, which was subject to the
power of appointment and had been conveyed to a volunteer
in pursuance thereof, to the satisfaction of judgments.
On the whole case, we are of opinion that the decree of the
Circuit Court was correct, and it is accordingly
-Affirmed.
AoL. cxI-23

