FOSTER v. KANSAS.
Syllabus.

had no jurisdiction of the case presented by the petition of
appellant, and its decree dismissing it is
-Affi.'~ned.
In Paulson's case the learned Justice added: This case was
tried at the same time, in the Court of Claims, as the Great
Western Insurance Co. v. the same defendant, and was decided
on the same facts and the same judgment was then rendered.
It was argued in this court with that case, and the judgment of
the Court of Claims is affirmed for the reasons given in the opinion
in that case.

FOSTER v. KANSAS, e.o rel. JOHNSTON,

Attorney-

General.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
Sabmitted October 14, 18S4.-Decided October 27, and November 10,1884.
A writ of error operates as a suspersedeas only from the time of the lodging of
the writ in the office of the clerk where the record to be examined remains.
9 1007 Rev. Stat., concerning stay of execution does not apply to judgments of
highest State courts. Doyle v. Wisconsin, 94 U. S. 50, affirmed.
When a judgment of a State court removes a State officer and thereby vacates
the office, and a writ of error from this court is allowed for the reversal of
that judgment, one appointed to the vacancy with knowledge of the granting of the writ of error on the part of the judge of the Supieme Court of
the State making the appointment, but before the filing of the writ in the
clerk's office where the record remains, is guilty of no contempt of this
court in assuming to perform the duties of the office.
A State law prohibiting the manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors, is
not repugnant to the Constitution of the United States. Bartemeyer v.
Iowa, 18 Wall. 129, and Beer Co. v. ffassachusetts, 97 U. S. 25, affirmed,
Information in the nature of qto warrantois a civil proceeding in Kansas.
Ames v. Kansas, 111 U. S. 449, affirmed.
A State statute regulating proceedings for removal of a person from a State
office is not repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, if it provides for bringing the party into court, notifies him of the case he has to
meet, allows him to be heard in defente, and provides for judicial deliberation and determination. Kefinard v. Louisianra, 92 U. S. 480,
affirmed.

OOTOBER TERMN,

1884.

Argument against the Motion.

The suit below was a proceeding to -remove Foster from the
office of Attorney-General of the State of Kansas.

Judgment

for removal, to reverse which a writ of error was sued out.
The defendant in error moved to dismiss the writ for want of

jurisdiction, and coupled the motion with a motion to affirm
under the judgment. After the writ of error and supersedeas
were obtained from this court, but before presentation in the
court below, one Moore was appointed successor to Foster and
assumed the duties of the office. The other facts connected
with the appointment and assumption of office appear in the
opinion. The counsel for the plaintiff in error obtained a rule
against Moore to show cause why he should not be committed
for contempt in violating the supersedeas. The two motions
were heard together.
-Mr1. 11- IIllet ]tilijjs for the rule and against the motion to
dismiss or aflirm.-The appointment of Moore after the date of
such allowance was nuility, and Moore by accepting the appointment and undertaking to discharge the functions of the office,
acted in gross violation of the stepersedeas. -Unlesswe are correct in this position, the supersedeaswas a mere mockery. Thus
in Greenv. VFan Buskerk, ' Wall. 448, which came here under the
25th section, an order for execution on a judgnent was entered,
notwiths anding the plaintiff in error had obtained a supersedeas,
within ten days after judgment. On application of the plaintiff in error, this court ordered a writ of &ul)ersedeasto issue.
The Chief Justice delivering the unanimous opinion of the court
says: "The unsuccessful party had ten days from that entry
(of judgment) to take out a writ of error and make it a supersedeas; and he duly availed himself of this right by service of
the writ of error on the 30th of February, 1866, and giving the
required bonds." See also SCag~4er-House Oases, 10 Wall. 273,
291 ; Stq/fJord v. [5nion Bank of Iou.siana,.16 How. 135, 139;
Aca1ns v. Law, 16 How. 144, 148. We would confidently submit this view, were t not for the fact that this, court, in the
recent case of .oyle. v. lfisconsin, 94 U. S. 40, has declared
that the provision in the act of 1875, re-enacting the stay of
.ton -days contained in.the act of 1789, has reference only to the

FOSTER v. KANSAS.
Opinion of the Court.

courts of the United States. No reference is made in the
opinion of the court to the previous decisions. We submit that
it cannot be reconciled with those decisions, nor with the long
settled practice of-the court. In Cornrmiesioners v. Goimn; 19
Wall. 661, no bond having been given within the ten days from
judgment, execution issued. The plaintiff in error gave bond
within sixty days. A motion was made that a writ should
issue from this court to restore the plaintiff in error to the
office, from which he had been ousted. under the execution.
The contention'wvas that under the act of June 1, 1872, a party
had sixty days within which to give the bond, and that no
execution could issue during that period. This court, however,,
held, that under the act there was only an absolute stay of execution for ten days from judgnent; that although a bond
might be gi e* within the sixty days, the suersedeas only
dated from the time of the approval and filing of the bond.
In that case the execution had issued prior to the filing of the
bond, and no notice was given that any had been approved.
It nowhere appeared fiom the record when the bond was approved. The court held that under these circumstances the
writ of error operated as a supersedea&only from the filing.
.V. A. I. Willaims (Mr. Garver and .b'. Bond were with
him) for the State of Kansas contra.
MR. CHIEF JusncE WAITE, on the 27th of October, delivered

the opinion of the court on the matter of the rule.
The shbwing-under this rule presents the following facts:
The Supreme Court of Kansas rendered a judgment on the 1st"
of April, 1881, removing Foster, the plaintiff in error, from the
office of county attorney of Saline County. A statute of -the
State makes it the duty of the judge of the District Court of
a county to fill the offic3 of county attorney when a vacancy
exists. A writ of error from this court for the reversal of the
judgment of the Supreme Court was duly allowed in Washington on the 5th of April, and-a supersedeas bond approved, and
a citation signed. Notice of these facts was telegraphed onthe same -day, by the counsel of Foster in Washington, to his

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

counsel in Kansas. On the 7th, the counsel in Kansas called on
the judge of the District Court of the county, and exhibited to
him the telegram and notified him of what had been done in
Washington. After this, and a little before twelve o'clock of
the night of the 7th, the judge appointed Joseph Moore to the
office in place of Foster. The bond of Moore,'which had been
executed on the 7th, and then approved by the clerk of 'the
county, was accepted by the county commissioners on the 8th
of April, and -Moorethereupon assumed to discharge the duties
of his office. Before this appointment was made, an authenticated copy of the record of the Supreme Court removing Foster from the office was presented to the judge. On the same
day, the 8th, the writ of error and supersedeas bond arrived
from Washington, and were duly lodged in the office of the
clerk of the Supreme Court of the State. At the next term of
the District Court, which began on the 12th of May, Moore appeared and acted as county attorney, the judge ruling that he,
and not Foster, was properly in office.
On the 26th of May a rule was granted by one of the justices
of this court requiring Moore to appear here on the second day
of the present term and show cause why he should not be attached for contempt in violating the supersedeas. There is
no dispute about the facts, and the simple question is whether
they make cut a case of contempt on the part of Moore. We
have no hesitation in saying they do not. It was decided in
Board of Commssioners v. Gornan, 19 Wall. 661, which was
followed in Klitchen v. Randolph, 93 U. S.86, that a writ of
error operates as a supersedeas only from the time of the lodging of the writ in the office of the clerk where the record to be
re-examined remains; and in Doyle v. Yiscongln, 9- U. S.50,
that the provisicn of sec. 1007 of the .Revised Statutes, to the
effect that in cases where a writ of error may be a supersedeas
executions shall not issue until the expiration of ten days, does
not apply to judgments in the highest court of a State. We
see no reason to modify these rulings. _ It follows, that the
§upersedeas was not in force when. Moore was appointed to and
,accepted the office.
.The judgment operated of itself to remove Foster and leave

FOSTER v. KANSAS.
Opinion of the Court.

his office vacant. It needed no execution to carry it into effect.
The statute gave the judge of the District Court authority to fill
the vacancy thus created. The judge was officially notified of
the vacancy on the 7th, when the authenticated copy of the
record of the Supreme Court was presented to him. The
operation of that judgment was not stayed by the supersedeas
until the Sth, that being the date of the lodging of the writ of
error in the clerk's office. It follows that the office was in fact
vacant when Moore accepted his appointment, gave his bond,
and took the requisite oath. He was thus in office before the
supersedeas became operative. What effect the supersedeas
had, when it was afterwards obtained, on the previous appointment, we need not consider. This is not an appropriate form
of proceeding to determine whether Foster or Moore is now
legally in office.
The rule is dischargeql.
Mm. CHIEF JUSTICE WAIE, on

the 10th of November, deliv-

ered the opinion of the court on the motions to dismiss and

to affirm.
This record shows that the Attorney-General of the State
of Kansas commenced proceedings in quo 'wa2ranto in the
Supreme Court of the State against John Foster, county
attorney of Saline County, to remove him from office because
he had neglected and refused to prosecute persons who were
guilty of selling intoxicating liquors in the county in violation
of a statute of the State known as the prohibitory liquor law.
Among other defences relied on by the defenadant was one to
the effect that the statute under which the prosecutions were
to be instituted was in violation of the Constitution of the
United States, and therefore void. It was also claimed that
the writ of quo war,wato in Kansas was a criminal proceeding,
and that under the Constitution of the United States the defendant was entitled to a trial in accordance with the criminal
code of procedure. The court ruled against the defendant
on all these claims and defences, and charged the jury that the
sections of the prohibitory liquor law involved in the proceeding were not repugnant to the Constitution of the Uniteo States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
,Opinion of the Court.

The trial .resulted in a verdict against the defendant and
a judgment thereon removing. him from office. This writ of
error was brought to reverse that judgment, and the State now
moves to dismiss the case for want of jurisdiction, and with
that has united a motion to affirm. This can be done under
Rule 6, see. 5, of this court.
As the question of the constitutionality of the statute was
directly raised, by the defendant, and decided against him by
the court, we have jurisdiction, and the motion to dismiss must
be overruled; but, as every one of the questions which we are
asked to consider has been already settled in this court, the
motion to affirm is granted. In Batrneyer v. Iowa, 18 Wall.
129, it was decided that a State law prohibiting the manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors, was not repugnant to the
Constitution of the United States. This was reaffirmed in
Bee, Co. v. fassachusetts, 97 U. S. 25, and that question is
now no longer open in this court. In Ames v. Kansas, 111
U. S. 449, it was decided, at the last term, that the remedy by
information in the nature of quo waleranto, in Kansas, was a
civil proceeding, and in Eennalrd v. Louisiana,92 U. S. 480,
that a State statute regulating proceedings for the removal of
a person from a State office was not repugnant to the Constitution of the United States if it provided for bringing the party
against whom the proceeding was had into court, and notifying
him of the case he had to meet, for givinig him an opportunity
to be heard in his defence, and for the delibeiration and judgment of the court.
Afflrmed.

