OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

nal duties or taxes, before they wer4 paid into the Treasury,
and $500,000 was appropriated "for the purpose of paying"
various specified expenses, including "advertising and any
other expenses of carrying this act into effect." This advertising was an expense of carrying the act into effect, and was
aside from the pay of the collector, and was to be paid out of
the Treasury, as an expense. The allowance of it by the accounting officers or otherwise was not a prerequisite to the
right of Denison to have it credited to him in this suit. Colmvbell v. United States, 107 U. S., 407.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is sffrmed.

ELK v. WIL=KIS.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
DISTRICT OF NIEBASKA.
Argued April 28, 1884.-Decided November 3, 1884.

An Indian, born a member of one of the Indian tribes within the United States,
which still exists and is recognized as a tribe by the government of the
United States, who has voluntarily separated himself from his tribe, and
taken up his residence among the white citizens of a State, but who has not
been naturalized, or taxed, or recognized as a citizen, either by the United
States or by the State, is not a citizen of the United States, within the
meaning of the first section of the Fourteenth Article of Amendmentof the
Constitution.
A petition alleging that the plaintiff is an Indian, and was born within the
United States, and has severed his tribal relation to the Indian tribes, and
fully and completely surrendered himself-to the jurisdiction of the United
States, and still so continues subject to the jurisdiction of the United States,
and is a bonafide resident of the State of Nebraska and city of Omaha, does
not show that he is a citizen of the United States under the Fourteenth Article of Amendment of the Constitution.

This is an action brought by an Indian, in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Nebraska, against the
registrar of one of the wards of the city of Omaha, for refusing
to register him as a qualified voter therein. The petition was
as follows;

ELK, v. WILKINS.
Statement of Facts.

"John Elk, plaintiff, complains of Charles Wilkins, defendant, and avers that the matter in dispute herein exceeds the
sum of five hundred dollars, to wit, the sum of six thousand
dollars, and that the matter in dispute herein arises under the
Constitution and laws of the United States; and, for cause of
action against the defendant, avers that he, the plaintiff, is an
Indian, and was born within the United States ; that more than
one year prior to the grievances hereinafter complained of he
had severed his tribal relation to the Indian tribes, and had
fully and completely surrendered himself to the jurisdiction of
the United States, and still so continues subject to the jurisdiction of the United States; and avers that, under and by virtue
of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States, he is a citizen of the United States, and entitled
to the right and 'privilege of citizens of the United States.
"That on the sixth day of April, 1880, there was held in the
city of Omaha, (a city of the first class, incorporated under the
general lawg of the State of Nebraska providing for the incorporation of cities of the first class,) a general election for the
election of members of the city council and other officers for
said city.
"That the defendant, Charles Wilkins, held the office of and
acted as registrar in the fifth ward of said city, and that as said
registrar it -was the duty of such defendant to register the
names of all persons entitled to exercise the elective franchise
in said ward of said city at said general election.
"That this plaintiff was a citizen of and had been a bonafd-e
resident of the State of Nebraska for more than six months
prior to said sixth day of April, 1880, and had been a bonaftde
resident of Douglas County, wherein the city of Omaha is situate, for more than forty days, and in the fifth ward of said city
more than ten days prior to the said sixth day of April, and
was such citizen and resident at the time of said election, and
at the time of his attempted registration, as hereinafter set
forth, and was in every way qualified, under the laws of the
State of Nebraska and of the city of Omaha, to be registered
as a voter and' to cast a vote at said election, and complied
with the laws of the city and State in that behalf.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

"That on or about the fifth day of April, 1880, and prior to
said election, this plaintiff presented himself to said Charles
Wilkins, as such registrar, at his office, for the purpose bf having his name registered as a qualified voter, as provided by law,
and complied with all the provisions of the statutes in that
regard, and claimed that, under the Fourteenth and Fifteenth
Amendments to the Constitution of the United States, he was
a citizen of the United States, and was entitled to exercise the
elective franchise, regardless of his race and color; and that
said Wilkins, designedly, corruptly, wilfully and maliciously,
did then and there refuse to register this plaintiff, for the sole
reason that the plaintiff was an Indian, and therefore not a
citizen of the United States, and not, therefore, entitled to vote,
and on account of his race and color, and with the wilful, malicious, corrupt and unlawful design to deprive this plaintiff of
hi right to vote at said election, and of his rights, and all other
Indians of their rights, under said Fourteenth and Fifteenth
Amendments to the Constitution of the United States, on
account of his and their race and color.
"That on the sixth day of April this plaintiff presented himself at the place of voting in said ward, and presented a ballot
and requested the right to vote, where said Wilkins, who was
then acting as one of the judges of said election in said ward,
in further carrying out his wilful and malicious desigos aforesaid, declared to the plaintiff and to the other election officers
that the plaintiff was an Indian and not a citizen and not entitled to vote, and said judges and clerks of election refused to
receive the vote of the plaintiff, for that he was not registered
as required by law.
"Plaintiff avers the fact to be that by reason of said wilful,
unlawful, corrupt and malicious refusal of said defendant to
register this plaintiff, as provided by law, he was deprived of
his right to vote at said election, to his damage in the sum of
$6,000.
"Wherefore plaintiff prays judgment against defendant for
$6,000, his damages, with costs of suit."
The defendant filed a general demurrer for the following
causes: 1st. That the petition did not state facts sufficient to

ELK v. WILINS.
Statement of Facts.

constitute a cause of action.

2d. That the court had no juris-

diction of the person of the defendant. 3d. That the court
had no jurisdiction of the subject of the action.
The demurrer was argued before Judge McCrary and Judge
Dundy, and sustained; and the plaintiff electing to stand by
his petition, judgment was rendered for the defendant, dismissing the petition with costs. The plaintiff sued out this
writ of error.
By the Constitution of the State of Nebraska, article 7, section 1, "Every male person of the age of twenty-one years or
upwards, belonging to either of the following classes, who
shall have resided in the State six months, and in the county,
precinct or ward for the term provided by law, shall be an
elector. First. Citizens of the United States. Second. Persons
of foreign birth who shall have declared their intention to become citizens, conformably to the laws of the United States on
the subject of naturalization, at least thirty days prior to an
election."
By-the statutes of Nebraska, every male person of the age
of twenty-one years or upwards, belonging to either of the
two classes so defined in the Constitution of the State, who
shall have resided in the State six months, in the county forty
days, and in the precinct, towvnship or ward ten days, shall be
an elector; the qualification of electors in the several wards of
cities of the first class (of which Omaha is one) shall be the
same as in precincts; it is the duty of the registrar to enter in
the register of qualified voters the name of every person who
applies to him to be registered, and satisfies him that he is
qualified to vote under the provisions of the election laws of
the State; and at all municipal, as well as county or State
elections, the judges of election are required to check the
name, and receive and deposit the ballot, of any person whose
name appears on the register. Compiled Statutes of Nebraska
of 1881, ch. 26, § 3 ;- ch. 13, § 14; ch. 76, §§ 6, 13, 19.
31r. A. J. PopJh'to and Xi. John L. Webster for plaintiff
in error.
Ak. G. ill. Larberton for defendant in error.
VOL cxri-7

OCTOBER TERM,

1884.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. TSTIcs GRAY delivered the opinion of the court. le

stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
The plaintiff, in support of his action, relies on the first
clause of the first section of the Fourteenth Article of Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, by which "all
persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject
to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States
and of the State wherein they reside;" and on the Fifteenth
Article of Amendment, which provides that "the right of
citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or
abridged by the United States or by any State on account of
race, color, or previous condition of servitude."
This being a suit at common law, in which the matter in
dispute exceeds $500, arising under the Constitution of the
United States, the Circuit Court had jurisdiction of it under
the act of March 3, 1875, ch. 137, § 1, even if the parties
were citizens of the same State. 18 Stat. 470; Agnes v.
.Ransas, 111 U. S.449. The judgment of that court, dismissing the action with costs, must have proceeded upon the
merits, for, if the dismissal had been for want of jurisdiction,
no.costs could have been awarded. The .M3ayor v. Cooper, 6
Wall. 247; .2gansfaed & Coldwater ]?aiblay v.
111
ll, U.
S.379. And the only point argued by the defendant in this
court is whether the petition sets forth facts enough to constitute a cause of action.
The decision of this point, as both parties assume in their
briefs, depends upon the question whether the legal conclusion,
that under and by virtue of the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution the plaintiff is a citizen of the United States, is
supported by the facts alleged in the petition and admitted by
the demurirr, to wit: The plaintiff is an Indian, and was born
in the United States, and "has severed -his tribal relation to the
Indian tribes, and fully and completely surrendered himself to
the jurisdiction of the United States, and- still continues to be
subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, and is a bona
fAde resident of the State of Nebraska and city of Omaha.
The petition, while it does not show of what Indian tribe
the plaintiff was a member, yet, by the allegations that he "is

ELK v. WILKINS.
Opinion of the Court.

an Indian, and was born within the United States," and that
"he had severed his tribal relation to the Indian tribes," clearly
implies that he was born a member of one of the Indian tribes
within the limits of the United States, which still exists and is
recognized as a tribe by the government of the United States.
Though the plaintiff alleges that he "had fully and completely
surrendered himself to the jurisdiction of the United States,"
he does not allege that the United States accepted his surrender, or that he has ever been naturalized, or taxed, or in any
way recognized or treated as a citizen, by the State or by the
United States. Nor is it contended by his counsel that there
is any statute or treaty that makes him a citizen.
The question then is, whether an Indian, born a member of
one of the Indian tribes within the United States, is, merely by
reason of his birth within the United States, and of his afterwards voluntarily separating himself from his tribe and taking
up his residence among white citizens, a citizen of the United
States, within the meaning of the first section of the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution.
Under the Constitution of the United States, as originally
established, "Indians not taxed" were excluded from the persons according to whose numbers representatives and direct
taxes were apportioned among the several States; and Congress had and exercised the power to regulate commerce with
the Indian tribes, and the members thereof, whether within or
without the boundaries of one of the States of the Union. The
Indian tribes, being within the territorial limits of the United
States, were not, strictly speaking, foreign States; but they
were alien nations, distinct political communities, with whom
the United States might and habitually did deal, as they
thought fit, either through treaties made by the President and
Senate, or through acts of Congress in the ordinary forms of
legislation. The members of those tribes owed immediate
allegiance to their several tribes, and were not part of the
people of the United States. They were in a dependent condition, a state of pupilage, resembling that of a ward to his
guardian. Indians and their property, exempt from taxation
by treaty or statute of the United States, could not be taxed

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

by any State. General acts of Congress did not apply to
Indians, unless so expressed as to clearly manifest an intention
to include them. Constitution, art. 1, sects. 2, 8 ; art. 2, sect. 2;
Cherokee .Vation v. Georgia, 5 Pet. 1; TForester v. Georgia,
6 Pet. 515; United States v. Rogers, 4 Ilow. 567; United
States v. Ilolliday, 3 Wall. 407 ; Case of tMe Kansas Indians,
5 Wall. 737; Case of tMe _New York Indians, 5 Wall. '761;
Case of the Clicrokee Tobacco, 11 Wall. 616 ; United States v.
TFliskey, 93 U. S. 188; .Pennock v. Commissioners, 103 U. S.
44; Crow -Dog's Case, 109 U7. S. 556; Goodell v. Jackson, 20
Johns. 693; Hastingsv. Farmer,4 N. Y. 293.
The alien and dependent condition of the members of the
Indian tribes could not be put off at their own will, without
the action or assent of the United States. They were never
deemed citizens of the United States, except under explicit
provisions of treaty or statute to that effect, either declaring a
certain tribe, or such members of it as chose to remain behind
on the removal of the tribe westward, to be citizens, or authorizing individuals of particular tribes to become citizens on
application to a court of the United States for naturalization,
and satisfactory proof of fitness for civilized life; for examples
of which see treaties in 1817 and 1835 with the Cherokees, and
in 1820, 1825 and 1830 with the Choctaws, 7 Stat. 159, 211,
236, 335, 483, 488; Vilson, v. WVall, 6 Wall. 83; Opinion of
Attorney-General Taney, 2 Opinions of Attorneys General,
462; in 1855 with the Wyandotts, 10 Stat. 1159; Karrahoov.
Adams, 1 Dillon, 344, 346 ; Gray v. Cqfnan, 3 Dillon, 393 ;
Hicks v. Butrick, 3 Dillon, 413; in 1861 and in March, 1866,
with the Pottawatomies, 12 Stat. 1192; 14 Stat. 763; in 1862
with the Ottawas, 12 Stat. 1237; and the Kickapoos, 13 Stat.
624; and acts of Congress of March 3, 1839, ch. 83, § 7, concerning the Brothertown Indians, and of March 3, 1843, ch.
101, § 7, August 6, 1846, ch. 88, and March 3, 1865, ch. 127,
§4, concerning the Stockbridge Indians, 5 Stat. 351, 647; 9
Stat. 55 ; 13 Stat. 562. See also treaties witl the Stockbridge
Indians in 1848 and 1856, 9 Stat. 955 ; 11 Stat. 667 ; 7 Opinions of Attorneys General, 746.
Chief Justice Taney, in the passage cited for the plaintiff

ELK v. WILEINS.
Opinion of the Court.

from his opinion in Sc6tt v. Sandford, 19 How. 393, 404, did not
affirm or imply that either the Indian tribes, or individual
members of those tribes, had the right, beyond other foreigners,
to become citizens of their own will, without being naturalized
by the United States. His words were: "They" (the Indian
tribes) "may, without doubt, like the subjects of any foreign
government, be naturalized by the authority of Congress, and
become citizens of a State, and of the United States; and if
an individual should leave his nation or tribe, and take up his
abode among the white population, he would be entitled to all
the rights and privileges which would belong to an emigrant
from any other foreign people." 'But an emigrant from any
foreign State cannot become a citizen of the United States
without a formal renunciation of his old allegiance, and an acceptance by the United States .of that renunciation though
such form of naturalization as may be required by law.
The distinction between citizenship by birth and citizenship
by naturalization is clearly marked in the provisions of the
Constitution, by which "no person, except a natural born citizen,
or a citizen of the United States at the time of the adoption of
this Constitution, shall be eligible to the office of President ;"
and "the Congress shall have power to establish an uniform
rule of naturalization." Constitution, art. 2. sect. 1; art. 1,
sect. 8.
By the Thirteenth Amendment of the Constitution slavery was
prohibited. The main object of the opening sentence of the
Fourteenth Amendment was to settle the question, upon which
there had been a difference of opinion throughout the country
and in this court, as to the citizenship of free negroes (Scott v.
San df6id, 19 How. 393); and to put if beyond- doubt that all
persons, white or black, and whether formerly slaves or not,
born or naturalized in the United States, and owing no allegiance to. any alien power, should be citizens of the United
States and of the State in which they reside. Slaugh'ter-House
Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 13; StLrauder v. West 7"irginia, 102 U. S.
303, 306.
This section contemplates two sources of citizenship, and two
sources only: birth and naturalization. The persons declared

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

to be citizens are "all persons born or naturalized in the United
States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof." The evident
meaning of these last words is, not merely subject in some respect or degree to the jurisdiction of the United States, but
completely subject to their political jurisdiction, and owing
them direct and immediate allegiance. And the words relate
to the time of birth in the one case, as they do to the time of
naturalization in the other. Persons not thus subject to the
jurisdiction of the United States at the time of birth cannot
become so afterwards, except by being naturalized, either individually, as by proceedings under the naturalization acts, or collectively, as by the force of a treaty by which foreign territory
is acquired.
Indians born within the territorial limits of the United
States, members of, and owing immediate allegiance to, one of
the Indian tribes (an alien, though dependent, power), although
in a geographical sense born in the United States, are no more
"born in the United States and subject to the jurisdiction
thereof," within the meaning of the first section of the Fourteenth
Amendment, than the children 'of subjects of any foreign
government born within the domain of that government, or
the children born within the United States, of ambassadors
or other public ministers of foreign nations.
This view is confirmed by the second section of the Fourteenth
Amendment, which provides that "representatives shall be apportioned among the several States according to their respective
numbers, counting the whole number of persons in each State,
excluding Indians not taxed." Slavery having been abolished,
ani the persons formerly held as slaves made citizens, this
clause fixing the apportionment of representatives has abrogated so much of the corresponding clause of the original Constitution as counted only three-fifths of such persons. But
Indians not taxed are still excluded from the count, for the
reason that they are not citizens. Their absolute exclusion from
the basis of representation, in which all other persons are now
included, is wholly incbnsistent with their being considered
citizens.
So the further provision of the second section for a propor-

ELK v. WILKINS.
Opinion of the Court.

tionate reduction of the basis of the representation of any State
in which the right to vote for presidential electors, representatives in Congress, or executive or judicial officers or members
of the legislature of a State, is denied, except for participation in rebellion or other crime, to "any of the male inhabitants
of such State, being twenty-one years of age and citizens of the
United States," cannot apply to a denial of the.61ective franchise to Indians not taxed, who form no part of the people
entitled to representation.
It is also worthy of remark, that the language used, about
the same time, by the very Congress which framed the Fourteenth Amendment, in the first section of the Civil Rights Act
of April 9, 1866, declaring who shall be citizens of the United
States, is "all persons born in the United States, and not subject to any foreign power, excluding Indians not taxed." 14
Stat. 27; Rev. Stat. § 1992.
Such Indians, then, not being citizens by birth, can only become citizens in the second way mentioned in the Fourteenth
Amendment, by being "naturalized in the United States," by
or under some treaty or statute.
The action of the political departments of the government,
not only after th6 proposal of the Amendment by Congress to
the States in June, 1866, but since the proclamation in July,
1868, of its ratification by the requisite number of States, accords with this construction.
While the Amendment was pending before the legislatures
of the several States, treaties containing provisions for the
naturalization of members of Indian tribes as citizens of the
United States were made on July 4, 1866, with the Delawares, in 1867 with various tribes in Kansas, and with the
Pottawatomies, and in April, 1868, with the Sioux. 14 Stat.
794, 796; 15 Stat. 513, 532, 533, 637.
The treaty of 1867 with the Kansas Indians strikingly illustrates the principle that no one can become a citizen of a nation
without its consent, and directly contradicts the supposition
that a member of an Indian tribe can at will be alternately a
citizen of the United States and a member of the tribe.
That treaty not only provided for thd naturalization of mere-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

bers of fhe Ottawa, Miami, Peoria, and other tribes, and their
families, upon their making declaration, before the District
Court of the United States, of their intention to become citizens; 15 Stat. 517, 520, 521; but, after reciting that some of
the Wyandotts, who had become citizens under the treaty of
1855, were "unfitted for the responsibilities of citizenship;"
nd enacting that a register of the whole people of this tribe,
resident in Kansas or elsewhere, should be taken, under the
direction of- the Secretary of the Interior, showing the names
of "all who declate their desire to be and remain Indians and
in a tribal condition," and of incompetents and orphans as de-9cribed in the treaty of 1855, and that such persons, and those
only, should ther~nfter constitute the tribe; it provided that
"no one who has heretofore consented to become a citizen, nor
the wife or children of any such person, shall be allowed to
become members- of the tribe, except by the free consent of the
tribe after its new organization, and unless the agent shall
certify that such party is, through poverty or incapacity, unfit
to continue in the exercise of the responsibilities of citizenship
of the United States, and likely to become a public charge."
15 Stat. 514, 516.
Since the ratification of the Fourteenth Amendment, Congress has passed several acts for naturalizing Indians of certain
tribes, which would have been superfluous if they were, or
might become, without any action of the government, citizens
of the United Stateg.
By the a~t of July 15, 1870, ch. 296, § 10, for instance, it
was provided that if at any time thereafter any of the Winnebago Indians in the State of Minnesota should desire to become
citizens of the United States, they should make application to
the District Court of the United States for the District of Minnesota, and in open court, make the same proof and take the
same oath of allegiance as is provided .by law for the naturalization of aliens, and should -.also make proof to the satisfaction
of the court that they were sufficiently intelligent and prudent
to control their affairs and interests, that they had adopted
the habits of civilized life, and had for at least five years before
been able "tosupport themselves and their families; and there-

ELK v. WILKINS.
Opinion of the Court.

upon they should be declared by the court to be citizens of the
United States, the declaration entered of record, and a certificate thereof given to the applicant; and the Secretary of the
Interior, upon presentation of that certificate, might issue to
them patents in fee simple, with power of alienation, of the
lands already held by them in severalty, and might cause to
be paid to them their proportion of the money and effects of
the tribe held in trust under any treaty or law of the United
States; and thereupon such persons should cease to be members of the tribe, and the lands so patented to them should be
subject to levy, taxation, and sale, in like manner with the
property of other citizens. 16 Stat. 361. By the act of March
3, 1873, ch..332, § 3, similar provision was made for the naturalization of any adult members of the Miami tribe in Kansas, and
of their minor children. 17 Stat. 632. And the act of March
3, 1865, ch. 127, before referred to, making corresponding provision for the naturalization of any of the chiefs, warriors, or

heads of families of the Stockbridge Indians, is re-enacted in
section 2312 of the Revised Statutes.
The act of January 25, 1871, ch. 38, for the relief of the
Stockbridge and M unsee Indians in the State of Wisconsin,
provided that "for the purpose of determining the persons who
,are members of said tribes and the future relation of each to
the government of the United States," two rolls should be prepared under the direction of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs,
signed by the sachem and councillors of the tribe, certified by
the person selected by the Commissioner to -superintend the
same, and rethrned to the Commissioner; the one, to be denominated the citizen roll, of the names of all such persons of full
age, and their families, "as signify their desire to separate
their relations with said tribe, and to become citizens of the
United States," and the other, to be denominated the Indian
roll, of the names of all such "as desire to retain their tribal
cha1'acter and continue under the care and guardianship of
the United States;" and that those 'rolls, so made and returned, should be held as a full surrender and relinquishment,
on the part of all those of the first class, of all claims to he
known or considered as members of the tribe, or to be interested

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

in any provision made or to be made by the United States for
its benefit, "and they and their descendants shall thenceforth
be admitted to all the rights and privileges of citizens of the
United States." 16 StatC 406.
The Pension Act exempts Indian claimants of pensions for
service in the army or navy from the obligation to take the
oath to support the Constitution of the United States. Act of
March 3, 1873, ch. 234, § 28; 17 Stat. 574; Rev. Stat. § 4721.
The recent statutes concerning homesteads are quite inconsistent with the theory that Indians do or can make themselves
independent citizens by living apart from their tribe. The act
of March 3, 1875, ch. 131, § 15, allowed to "any Indian born
in the United States, who is the head of a family, or who has
arrived at the age of twenty-one years, aud who has abandoned,
or may hereafter abandon, his tribal relations," the benefit of
the homestead acts, but only upon condition of his "making
satisfactory proof of such abandonment, under rules to be prescribed bythe Secretary of the Interior;" and further provided
that his title in the homestead should be absolutely inalienable
for five years from the date of the patent, and that he should
be entitled to share in all annuities, tribal funds, lands and
other property, as if had maintained his tribal relations. 18
Stat. 420. And the act of March 3, 1884, ch. 180, § 1, while it
allows Indians "located on public lands" to "avail themselves
of the homestead laws as fully and to the same extent as may
now b)e done by citizens of the United States," provides that
the form and the legal effect of the patent shall be that the
United States does and will hold the land for twenty-five years
in trust for the Indian making the entry, and his widow and
heirs, and will then convey it in fee to him or them. 23 Stat.
96.
The national legislation has tended more and more towards
the education and civilization of the Indians, and fitting them
to be citizens. But the question whether any Indian tribes, or
any members thereof, have become so far advanced in civilization, that they should be let out of the state of pupilage, and
admitted to the privileges and responsibilities of citizenship, is
a question to be decided by the nation whose wards they are

ELK v. WILKINS.
Opinion of the Court.

and whose citizens they seek to become, and not by each Indian
for himself.
There is nothing in the statutes or decisions, referred to
by counsel, to control the conclusion to which we have been
brought by a consideration of the language of the Fourteenth
Amendment, and of the condition of the Indians at the time
of its proposal and ratification.
The act of July 27, 1868, ch. 249, declaring the right of expatriation to be a natural and inherent right of all people, and
reciting that "in the recognition of this principle this government has freely received emigrants from all nations, and invested them with the rights of citizenship," while it affirms the
right of every man to expatriate himself from one country,
contains nothing to enable him to become a citizen of another,
without being naturalized under its authority. 15 Stat. 223;
Rev. Stat. § 1999.
The provision of the act of Congress of March 3, 1871, ch.
120, that "hereafter no Indian nation or tribe within the territory of the United States shall be acknowledged or recognized
as an independent nation, tribe or power with whom the United
States may contract by treaty," is coupled with a provision
that the obligation of any treaty already lawfully made is not
to be thereby invalidated or impaired; and its utmost possible
effect is to require the Indian tribes to be dealt with for the
future through the legislative and not through the treatymaking power. 16 Stat. 566; Rev. Stat. § 2079.
In the case of ULite(t States v. Elm, 23 Int. Rev. Rec. 419,
decided by Judge Wallace in the District Court of the United
States for the Northern District of New York, the Indian who
was held to have a right to vote in 1876 was born in the State
of New York, one of the remnants of a tribe which had ceased
to exist as a tribe in that State; and by a statute of the State
it had been enacted that any native Indian might purchase,
take, hold and convey lands, and, whenever he should have
become a freeholder to the value of one hundred dollars, should
be liable to taxation, and to the civil jurisdiction of the courts,
in the same manner and to the same extent as a citizen. N. Y.
Stat. 1843, ch. 87. The condition of the tribe from which he

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

derived his origin, so far as any fragments of it remained within
the State of New York, resembled the condition of those Indian
nations of which Mr. Justice Johnson said in Fletcher v. Peck,
6 Cranch, 87, 146, that they "have totally extinguished their
national fire, and submitted themselves to the laws of the
States;" and which Mr. Justice McLean had in view, when
he observed in Worcester v. Georgia, 6 Pet. 515, 580, that in
some of the old States, "where small remnants of tribes remain, surrounded by white population, and who, by their
reduced numbers, had lost the power of self-government, the
laws of the State have been extended over them, for the protection of their persons and property." See also, as to the condition of Indians in Massachusetts, remnants of tribes never
recognized by the treaties or legislative or.executive acts of the
United States as distinct political communities, Danzell v. Webquish,10S Mass. 133; .Pellsv. lTebquish,'129 Mass. 469; Mass.
Stat. 1862, ch. 184; 1869, ch. 463.
The passages cited as favorable to the plaintiff from the opinions delivered in Ex parte KYenyon, 5 Dillon, 385, 390, in Ex
parte 1?eynolds, 5 Dillon, 394, 397, and in Uited States v.
Crook, 5 Dillon, 453, 461, were obliter dicta. The Case of Reyiwlds was an indictment in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of A'rkansas for a murder in
the Indian country, of which that court had jurisdiction if
either the accused or the dead man was not an Indian, and was
decided by Judge Parker in favor of the jurisdiction, upon the
ground that both were white men, and that, conceding the one
to be an Indian by marriage, the other never was an Indian in
any sense. 5 Dillon, 397, 404. Each of the other two cases
was a writ of habeas corpus; and any person, whether a citizen or not, unlawfully restizained of his.liberty, is entitled to
that writ. Case of the Hottentot Tenus, 13 East, 195; 6se of
-DosSantos, 2 Brock. 493; Tn re Jfaine,14IHow. 103. In'Kenyones Case, Judge Parker held that the court in which the
prisoner had been convicted had no jurisdiction of the subject
matter, because the place of the commission of the act was
beyond tjie territorial limits of its jurisdiction, and, as was truly
said "'this alone would be conclusive of this case." 5 Dillon,

ELK v. WILKINS.
Opinion of the Court.

390. In United States v. Crook, the Ponca Indians were discharged by Judge Dundy because the military officers who
held them were taking them to the Indian Territory by force
and without any lawful authority; 5 Dillon, 468; and in the
case at bar, as the record before us shows, that learned judge
concurred in the judgment below for the defendant.
The law -upon the question before us has been well stated by
Judge Deady in the District Court of *theUnited States for the
District of Oregon. Ii.giving judgment against the plaintiff
in a case resembling the case at bar, he said: "Being born a
member of ' an independent political community'-the Chinook
-he was not born subject to the jurisdiction of the, United
States-not born in its allegiance." .Xe_Yay :y. Campbell, 2
Sawyer, 118, 134. And in a later case he said: "But an
Indian cannot make himself a citizen of the United States
without the consent and co-operation of the governmient. The
fact that he has abandoned his nomadic life or tribal relatipns,
and adopted the habits and manners of civilized people, may be
a good reason why he should be made a citizen of the United
States, but does not of itself make him one. To be a citizen of
the United States is a political privilege which no one, not
born 'to, can assume without its consent in some form. The
Indians in Oregon, not being born subject to the jurisdiction of
the United States, were not born citizens thereof, and I am not
aware of any law or treaty by which any of them have been
made so since." United States v. Osborne, 6 Sawyer, 406, 409.
Upon the question whether any action of a State can confer
rights of citizenship on Indians of a tribe still recognized by
the United States as retaining its tribal existence, we need not,
and do not, express an opinion, because the State of Nebraska
is not shown to have taken any action affecting the condition
of this plaintiff. See Chi'rac v. Chrac,2 Wheat. 259; Fellows
v. Blacksmith, 19 How. 366; United States v. H~olliday, 3 Wall.
407, 420; United States v. Jose.ph, 94 U. S.614, 618.'
The plaintiff, not being a citizen of the United States under
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution, has been
deprived of no right secured by the Fifteenth Amendment,
Judmen afflirmed.
and cannot maintain this action.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Woods, JJ.

MR. JUSTICE

Hflnx, with whom concurred Mit.

JusTicE

WOODS, dissenting

Mr. Justice Woods and myself feel constrained to express
our dissent from- the interpretation which our brethren give
to that clause of the Fourteenth Amendment which provides
that "al l persons born or naturalized in the United States, and
subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United
States and of the State wherein they reside."
The case, as presented by the record, is this .John Elk, the
plaintiff in error, is a person of the Indian race. He was born
within the territorial limits of the United States. His parents
were, at the time of his birth, members of one of the Indian
tribes in this country. More than a year, however, prior to
his application to be registered as a voter in the city of Omaha,
he had severed all relations with his tribe, and, as he alleges,
fully and completely surrendered himself to the jurisdiction of
the United States. Such surrender was, of course, involved in
his act of becoming, as the demurrer to the petition admits
that he did become, a bona Ride resident of the State of Nebraska. When he applied in 1880 to be registered as a voter,
he possessed, as is also admitted, the qualifications of age and
residence in State, county, and ward, required for electors by
the Constitution and laws of that State. It is likewise conceded that he -was entitled to be so registered, if, at the time
of his application, he was a citizen of the United States; for,
by the Constitution and laws of Nebraska every citizen of the
United States, having the necessary qualifications of age and
residence in State, county, and ward, is entitled to vote.
Whether he was such citizen is the single question presented
by this writ of error.
It is said that the petition contains no averment that Elk wastaxed in the State in which he resides, or had ever been treated
by her as a citizen. It is evident that the court would not have
held him to be a citizen of the United States, even if the peti°tion had contained a-direct averment that he was taxed; because its judgment, in legal effect, is, that, although born within
the territorial limits of the United States, he could not, if at his
birth a, member of an Indian tribe, acquire national citizenship

ELK v. WILKINS.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Woods, JJ.

by force of the Fourteenth Amendment, but only in pursuance
of some statute or treaty providing for his naturalization. It
would, therefore, seem unnecessary to inquire whether he was
taxed at the time of his application to be registered as a voter;
for, if the words "all persons born . . . in the United
States and subject to the jurisdiction thereof," were not intended to embrace Indians born in tribal relations, but who
subsequently became bon, 3 de residents of the several States,
then, manifestly, the legal status of such Indians is not altered
by the fact that they are taxed in those States.
While denying that national citizenship, as conferred by that
amendment, necessarily depends upon the inquiry whether the
person claiming it is taxed in the State of his iesidence, or has
property therein from which taxes may be derived, we submit
that the petition does sufficiently show that the plaintiff is
taxed, that is, belongs to the class which, by the laws of Nebraska, are subject to taxation. By the Constitution and laws of
Nebraska all real and personal property, in that State, are subject to assessment and taxation. Every person of full age
and sound mind, being a resident thereof, is required to list
all of his personal property for taxation. Const. Neb., art. 9,
§ 1; Compiled Stat. of Neb., ch. 77, pp. 400-1. Of these pro,
visions upon the subject of taxation this court will take judicial
notice. Good pleading did not require that they should be
set forth, at large, in the petition.- Consequently, an averment
that the plaintiff is a citizen and bonafde resident of Nebraska
implies, in law, that he is subject to taxation, and is taxed, in
that State. Further: The plaintiff has become so far incorporated with the mass of the people of Nebraska that, being,
as the petition avers, a citizen and resident thereof, he constitutes a part of her militia. Comp. Stat. Neb., ch. 56. He
may, being no longer a member of an Indian tribe, sue and be
sued in her courts. And he is counted in every apportionment
of representation in the legislature; the requirement of her
Constitution being, that "the legislature shall apportion the
Senators and Representatives according to the number of inhabitants, excluding Indians not taxed and soldiers and officers
of the United States army." Const. Neb., art. 3, § 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Woods, JJ.

At the adoption of the Constitution there were, in many of
the States, Indians, not members of any tribe, who constituted
a part of the people for whose b6nefit the State governments
were established. This is apparent from that clause of article
1, section 3, which requires, in the apportionment of representatives and direct taxes among the several States "according to
their respective numbers," the exclusion of "Indians not taxed."
This imlies that there were, at that time, in the United States,
Indians who were taxed, that is, were subject to, taxation; by
the laws of the State of which they were residents. Indians
not taxed were those who held tribal relations, and, therefore,
were not subject to the authority of any State, and were subject only to the authority of the United States under the
power conferred upon Congress in reference to Indian tribes
in this country. The same provision is preserved in the Fourteenth Amendment; for, now, as at the adoption of the Constitution, Indians in the several States, who are taxed by their
laws, are counted in establishing the basis of representation in
Congress.
By the act of April 9, 1866, entitled "An Act to protect all
persons in the United States in their civil rights, and furnish
means for their vindication" (14; Stat. 27), it is provided that
"all persons born in the United States and not subject to any
foreign power, excluding Indians not taxed, are hereby declared to be citizens of the United States." This, so far as we
are aware, is the first general enactment making persons of the
Indian race citizens of the United States. -Numerous statutes
and treaties previously provided for all the individual members
of particular Indian tribes becoming, in certain contingencies,
citizens of the United States. But the act of 1866 reached
Indians not in tribal relations. Beyond question, by that
act, national citizenship was conferred directly upon all persons
in this country, of whatever race (excluding only "Indians not
taxed"), who were born within the territorial limits of the
United States, and were not subject to any foreign power.
Surely every one must admit that an Indian, residing in one
of the States, and subject to taxation there, became, by force
alone of the act of 1866, a citizen of the United States, al-

ELK v. WILKINS.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Woods, JJ.

though he may have been, when born, a member of a tribe.
The exclusion of Indians not taxed evinced a purpose to
include those subject to taxation in the State of their residence.
Language could not express that purpose with more distinctness
than does the act of 1866. Any doubt upon the subject, in respect to persons of the Indian race residing in the United States
or Territories, and not members of a tribe, will be removed
by an examination of the debates, in which many distingaished
statesmen and lawyers participated in the Senate of the United
States when the act of 1866 was under consideration.
In the bill as originally reported from the Judiciary Committee there were no words excluding "Indians not taxed"
from the citizenship proposed to be granted. Attention being
called to this fact, the friends of the measure disclaimed any
purpose to make citizens of those who were in tribal relations with governments of their own. In order to meet
that objection, while conforming to the wishes of those desiring to invest with citizenship all Indians permanently separated
from their tribes, and who, by reason of their residence away
from their tribes, constituted a part of the people under
the jurisdiction of the United States, Mr. Trumbull, who
reported the bill, modified it by inserting the words "excludinglindians not taxed." What was intended by that modification appears from the following language used by him in
debate:
"Of course we cannot declare the wild Indians who do not
recognize the government of the United States, who are not
subject to our laws, with whom we make treaties, who have
their own laws, who have their own regulations, whom we do
not intend to interfere with or punish for the commission of
crimes one upon the other, to be the subjects of the United
States in the sense of being citizens. They must be excepted.
The Constitution of the United States excludes them from the
enumeration of the population of the United States when it
says that Indians not taxed are to be excluded. It has occurred to me that, perhaps, the amendment would meet the
views of all gentlemen, which used these constitutional words,
and said that all persons born in the United States, excludillg
VOL. cXiI-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Woods, JJ.

Indians not taxed, and not subject to any foreign power, shall
be deemed citizens of the United States." Cong. Globe, 1st
Sess., 39th Congress, p. 527.
In replying tb the objections urged by Mr. Hendricks to the
bill even as amended, Senator Trumbull said:
"Does the Senator from Indiana want the wild roaming
Indians, not taxed, not subject to our authority, to be citizens
of the United States-persons that are not to be counted in our
government? If he does not, let him not object to this amendment that brings in even [only] the Indian when he shall have
cast of his wild habits,-and submitted to the -lawsof organized
society and become a citizen." Ibid. 528.
The entire debate shows, with singular clearness, indeed,
with absolute certainty, that no Senator who participated in it,
whether in favor of or in opposition to the measure, doubted
that the bill, as passed, admitted, and was intended to admit,
to national citizenship Indians who abandoned their tribal relations, and became residents of one of the States or Territories,
within the full jurisdiction of the United States. It was so
interpreted by President Johnson, who, in his veto message,
said:
"By the first section of the bill all persons born in the United
States, and not subject to any foreign power, excluding Indians
not taxed, are declared to be citizens of the United States.
This provision comprehends the Chinese of the Pacific States,
Indians subject to taxation, the people called Gypsies, as well
as the entire race designated as blacks, persons of color, negroes,
mulattoes, and persons of African blood. Every individual of
those races, born in the United States, is, by the bill, made a
citizen of the United States."
It would seem manifest, from this brief review of the history
of the act of 1866, that one purpose of that legislation was to
confer national citizenship upon a part of the Indian race in
this country-such of them, at least, as resided in one of the
States or Territories, and were subject to taxation and other
public burdens. And it is to be observed that, whoever was
included within the terms of the grant, contained in that act,
became citizens of the United States, without any record of

ELK v. WMLKINS.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Woods, JJ.

their names being made. The citizenship so conferred ,vas
made to depend wholly upon the existence of the facts which
the statute declared to be a condition precedent to the grant
taking effect.
At the same session of the Congress which passed the act of
1866, the Fourteenth Amendment was approved and submitted
to the States for adoption. Those who sustained the former
urged the adoption of the latter. An examination of the debates in Congress, pending the consideration of that amend-.
ment, will show that there was no purpose, on the part of those
who framed it or of those who sustained it by their votes, to
abandon the policy inaugurated by the act of 1866, of admitting to national citizenship such Indians as were separated from
their tribes, and were residents of one of the States or of one
of the Territories, outside of any reservation or territory
set apart for the exclusive use and occupancy of Indian
tribes.
Prior to the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment numerous statutes were passed with reference to particular bodies of
Indians, under which all the individual members of such bodies,
upon the dissolution of their tribal relations or upon the division
of their lands derived from the government, became or were
entitled to become, citizens of the United States by force alone
of the statute, without observing any of the forms required by
the naturalization laws in the case of a foreigner becoming a
citizen of the United States. Such was the statute of March
3, 1839, 5 Stat. 349, relating to the Brothertown Indians, in
the then Territory of Wisconsin. Congress consented that the
lands reserved for their use might be partitioned among the
individuals composing that tribe. The act required the partition to be evidenced by a report and map to be filed with the
Secretary of the Interior, by whom it should be transmitted to
the President; whereupon, the act proceeded, "the said Brothertown Indians, and each and every of them, shall then be
deemed to be, and, from that time forth, are hereby declared
to be, citizens of the United States to all intents and purposes,
and shall be entitled to all the rights, privileges, and immunities
of such citizens," &c. Similar legislation was enacted with

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Woods, JJ.

reference to the Stockbridge Indians. 5 Stat. 646-7; Legislation of this character has an important bearing upon the present
question, for it shows that, prior to the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendnent it had often been the policy of Congress to
admit persons of the Indian race to citizenship hpon their
ceasing to have tribal relations, and without the slightest reference to the fact that they were born in tribal relations. It
shows also that the citizenship thus granted was not, in every
instance, required to be evidenced by the record of a court.
If it be said that the statutes, prior to 1866, providing for the
admission of Indians to citizenship, required, in their execution,
that a record be made of the names of those who thus acquired
citizenship, our answer is, that it was entirely competent for
Congress to dispense, as it did in the act of 1866, with any such
record being made in a court or in any department of the government. And certainly it must be conceded that, except in
eases of persons "naturalized in the United States" (which
phrase refers only to those who are embraced by the naturalization laws and not to Indians), the Fourteenth Amendment
does not require the citizenship granted by it to. be evidenced
by the record of any court, or,of any department of the government. Such citizenship passes to the person, of whatever
race, who is embraced by its provisions, leaving the fact of
citizenship to be determined, when it shall become necessary
to do so in the course of legal inquiry, in the same way
that questions as to one's nativity, domicile, or residence are
determined.
If it be also said that; since the adoption of the Fourteenth
Amendment, Congress has enacted statutes providing for the
citizenship of Indians, our answer is, that those statutes had
reference to tribes, the members of which could not, while
they continued in tribal relations, acquire the citizenship granted
by the Amendment. Those statdtes did not deal with individual Indians who had seveied their tribal connections and
were residents within the States of the Union, under the complete jurisdiction of the United States.
There is nothing in the history of the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment which, inour opinion, justifies the conclu-

ELK v. WILKINS.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Woods, JJ.

sion that only those Indians are included in its grant of national
citizenship who were, at the time of their birth, subject to the
complete jurisdiction of the United States. As already stated,
according to the doctrines of the court, in this case-if we do
not wholly misapprehend the effect of its decision-the plaintiff, if born while his parents were members of an Indian tribe,
would -not be embraced by the amendment, even had he been,
at the time it was adopted, a permanent resident of one of the
States, subject to taxation, and, in fact, paying property and
personal taxes, to the full extent required of the white race in
the same State.
When the Fourteenth Amendment was pending in the Senate
of the United States, M.. Doolittle moved to insert after the
words "subject to the jurisdiction thereof," the words "excluding Indians not taxed." His avowed object in so amending
the measure was to exclude, beyond all question, from the
proposed grant of citizenship, tribal Indians who-since they
were, in a sense, subject to the jurisdiction of the United
States-might be regarded as embraced in the grant. The
proposition was opposed by Mr. Trumbull and other friends of
the proposed constitutional amendment, upon the ground that
the words "Indians not taxed" might be misconstrued', and,
also, because those words were unnecessary, in that the phrase
"subject to the jurisdiction thereof" embraced only those who
were subject to the complete jurisdiction of the United
States, which could not be properly said of Indians in tribal
relations. But it was distinctly announced by the friends
of the measure that they intended to include in the grant
of national citizenship Indians who were within the jurisdiction
of the States, and subject to their laws, because such Indians
would be completely under the jurisdiction of the United
States. Said Mr. Trumbull : "It is only those who come completely within our jurisdiction, who are subject to our laws,
that we think of making citizens; and there can be no objection to the proposition that such persons should be citizens."
Congress. Globe, Pt. 4, 1st. Sess., 39th Cong., pp. 2890 to 2893.
Alluding to the phrase "Indians not taxed," he remarked that
the language of the proposed constitutional amendment was

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Woods, JJ.

better than that of the act of 1866 passed at the same session.
He observed:
"There is a difficulty about the words IIndians not taxed.'
Perhaps one of the reasons why I think so is because of the
persistency with which the Senator from Indiana himself insisted that.the phrase 'Indians not taxed,' the very words
which the Senator from Wisconsin wishes to insert here, would
exclude everybody that did not pay a tax; that that was the
meaning of it; we must take it literally. The Senator from
Maryland did not agree to that nor did I, but, if the Senator
from Indiana was right, it would receive a construction which,
I am sure, the Senator from Wisconsin would not be for, for
if these Indians come within our limits and within our jurisdiction and are civilized, he would just as soon make a citizen of
a poor Indian as of the rich Indian." Ibid. 2894.
A careful examination of all that was said by Senators and
Representatives, pending the consideration by Congress of the
Fourteenth Amendment, justifies us in saying that every one
who participated in the debates, whether for or against the
amendment, believed that in the form in which it was approved
by Congress it granted, and was intended to grant, national
citizenship to every person of the Indian race in this country
who was unconnected with any tribe, and who resided, in good
faith, outside of Indian reservations and within one of the
States or Territories of the Union. This fact is, we think,
entitled to great weight in determining the meaning and scope
of the amendment. Lithograykic Co. v. Sarony, 111 U. S. 57.
In this connection we refer to an elaborate report made by
Mr. Carpenter, to the Senate of the United States, in behalf of
its judiciary committee, on the 14th of December, 1870. The
report was made fin obedience to-an instruction to inquire as to
the effect of the Fourteenth Amendment upon the treaties
which the United States had with various Indian tribes of the
country. The report says: "For these reasons your committee do not hesitate to say that. the Indian tribes within the
limits of the United States, and the individuals, members of
such tribes, while they adhere to and form a part of the tribes
to which they belong, are not, within the meaning of the

ELK v. WILKINS.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Woods, JJ.

Fourteenth Amendment, 'subject to the jurisdiction' of the
United States; and, therefore, that suel Indians have not become citizens of the United States by virtue of that amendment; and, if your committee are correct in this conclusion, it
follows that the treaties heretofore made. between the United
States and the Indian tribes are not annulled by that amendment. ' The report closes with this significant language: "It
is pertinent to say, in concluding this report, that treaty relations can properly exist with Indian tribes or nations only, and
that, viken the members of any Indian tribe are seattered, they
tpeople, and become equally subject
are merged in the maws of our
to the ju'idictionof the United States."
The question before us has been examined by a writer upon
constitutional law whose views are entitled to great respect.
Judge Cooley, referring to the definition of national citizenship
as contained in the Fourteenth Amendment, says:
"By the express terms of the amendment, persons of foreign
birth, who have never renounced the allegiance to which they
were born, though they may have a residence in this country,
more or less permanent, for business, instruction, or pleasure,
are not citizens. Neither are the aboriginal inhabitants of the
country citizens, so-long as they preserve their tribal relations
and recognize the headship of their chiefs, notwithstanding
that, as against the action of our own people, they are under
the protection of the laws, and may be said to owe a qualified
allegiance to the government. When living within territory
over which the laws, either State or Territorial, are extended,
*they are protected by, and, at the same time, held amenable to,
those laws in all their intercourse with the body politic, and
with the individuals composing it; but they are also, as a
quasi-foreign people, regarded as being under the direction and
tutelage of the general government, and subjected to peculiar
regulations as dependent communities. They are ' subject to
the jurisdiction ' of the United States only in a much qualified
sense; and it would be obviously inconsistent with the semiindependent character of such a tribe, and with the obedience
they are expected to render to their tribal head, that they
should be vested with the complete rights, or, on the other

OCTOBER TERM, 18$4.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Woods, JJ.

hand, subjected to the full responsibilities of American citizens.
It 'would not, for a moment, be contended that such was the
effect of this amendment.
"When, however, the tribal relations are dissolved, whei
theheadship of the chief or the authority of the tribe is no
longer recognized, and. the individual Indian, turning his back
upon his former mode of life, makes himself a member of the
civilized community, the case is wholly altered. He then no
longer acknowledges a divided allegiance; he joins himself to
the body politic; he gives evidence of his purpose to adopt the
habits and customs of civilized life; and as his case is then
within the terms of this amendment, it would seem that his
right to protection, in person, property and prixilege, must be
as coniplete as the allegiance to the government to which he
must then be held; as complete, in short, as that of any other
native born inhabitant." 2 Story's Const., Cooley's Edi.,
1933, p. 654.
To the same effect are Eo _part enyo, 5 Dillon, 390; Ew
_arteReynold, Tb. 307; United Sttesv. Crook, Ib. 454; United
Saes v. Elm, Dist. Ct. U. S., Northern District of New York,
23 -Int.Rev. Rec. 419.
It seems to us that the Fourteenth Amendment, in so far as
it was intended to confer national citizenship upon persons of
the Indian race, is robbed of its vital force by a construction
which excludes from such citizenship those who, although
born in tribal relations, are within the complete jurisdiction of
the United States. There were, in some of our States and
Territories at the time the amendment was submitted by Congress, many Indians who had finally left their tribes and come
ithin the complete jurisdiction of the United States. They
were as fully prepared for citizenship as were or are vast numbers of the white and colored races in the same localities. Is it
conceivable that the statesmen who framed, the Coagress which
submitted, and the people who adopted that amendment, intended to confer citizenship, national and State, upon the entire
population in this country of African descent (the larger part
of which was shortly before held in slavery), and by the same
constitutional provision to exclude from such citizenship Indians

ELK 1. WILKINS.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Woods, JJ.

who had never been in slavery, and who, by becoming bna.flde
residents 'of States and Territories within the complete jurisdiction of the United States, had evinced a purpose to abandon
their former mode of life and become a part of the People of
the United States? If this question be answered in the negative, as we think it must be, then we are justified in withholding oiir assent to the doctrine which excludes the plaintiff from
the body of citizens of the United States, upon the ground that
his parents were, when he was born, members of an Indian
tribe. For, if he can be excluded upon any such ground, it
must necessarily follow that the Fourteenth Amendment did
not grant citizenship even to Indians who, although born in
tribal relations, were, at its adoption, severed from their
tribes, and subject to the complete jurisdiction, as well'of the
United States as of the State or Territory in which they
resided.
Our brethL en, it seems to us, construe the Fourteenth Amendment as if it read: "All persons boi'n &sujectto the jurisdiction of, or naturalized in, the United States, are citizens
of the United States and of the State in which they reside ;"
whereas the amendment, as it is, implies in respect of persons born in this country, that they maf claim the rights
of national citizenship from and after the moment they become subject to the complete jurisdiction of the United
States. This would not include the children, born in this
country, of a foreign minister, for the reason that, under
the fiction of extra-territoriality as recognized by international law, such minister, "though actually in a foreign coun-.
try, is considered still to remain within the territory of his
own State," and, consequently, he continues "subject to the
laws of his own country, both with respect to his personal
status, and his rights of property; and his children, though
born in a foreign country, are considered as natives." Halleck's
International Law, ch. 10, § 12. Nor was plaintiff born without the jurisdiction of the United States in the same sense that
the subject of a foreign State, born within the territory of that
State, may be said to have been born without the jurisdiction
of our government. For according to the decision in Cherokee

OCTOBER TERMI, 1884.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Woods, JJ.

-Nationv. Georgqct, 5 Pet. 1', the tribe, of which the parents of
plaintiff were members, was not "a foreign State, in the sense
of the Constitution," but a domestic dependent people, 'in a
state of pupilage," and "so completely under the sovereignty
and dominion of the United States, that any attempt to acquire
their lands, or to form a political connection with them, would
be considered an invasion of our territory, and an act of hostility." They occupied territory, which the court in that case
said, composed "a part of the United States," the title to which
this nation asserted independent of their will. "In all our intercourse with foreign nations," said Chief Justice Marshall, in
the same case, "in our commercial regulations, in any attempt
.at intercourse between Indians and foreign nations, they are
considered as within the jurisdictional limits of the United
States, subject to many of those restraints which are imposed
upon our citizens. . . . They look to our government for
protection; rely upon its kindness and its power; appeal to it
for relief to their wants; and address the President as their
Great Father." And again, in United States v. Rogers, 4 How.
572, this court, speaking by Chief Justice Taney, said that it
was "too firmly and clearly established to admit of dispute that
the Indian tribes, residing within the territorial limits of the
United States, are subject to their authority." The Cherokee
Tobacco, 11 Wall. 616.
Born, therefore, in the territory under the dominion, and
within the jurisdictional limits of the United States, plaintiff
has acquired, as was his undoubted right, a residence in one of
the States, with her consent, and is subject to taxation and to
all other burdens imposed by her upon residents of every race,
If he did not acquire national citizenship on abandoning his
tribe and becoming, by residence in one of the States, subject
to the complete jurisdiction of the United States, then the
Fourteenth Amendment has wholly failed to accomplish, in
respect of the Indian race, what, we think, was' intended by
it; and there is still in this country a despised and rejected
class of persons, with no nationality whatever; who, born in
our territory, owing no allegiance to any foreign power, and
subject, as residents of the States, to all the burdens of govern-

ADAMS COUNTY v. BURLINGTON & MO. RR. CO. 123
Opinion of the Court.

ment, are yet not members of any political community nor entitled to any of the rights, privileges, or immunities of citizens
of the United States.

ADAMS COUNTY v. BURLINGTON & MISSOURI
RAILROAD CO.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF IOWA.
Argaed October 02, 1884.-Decided November 3, 1884.

When a record shows that two questions are presented by the pleadings, one
Federal and one non-Federal, and that the judgment below rested upon a
decision of the non-Federal question, this court has no jurisdiction to review that judgment.

Suit in equity. The facts which make the case are stated in
the opinion of the court.
3JDf. George G. TF'ght and .Xr. F.
plaintiff, in error.

Davis argued for

3tr. T. 2f. Stuart, X'. SamueZ Shllabarger and 3Dr. J.
TVilson, for defendants in error, submitted on their briefs.

f

Mr. CHIEF JuSTioE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity brought by Adams County, Iowa, the
plaintiff in error, on the 23d of December, 1869, against the
Burlington and Missouri River Railroad Company, in a State
court of Iowa, to quiet its title to sixty-six forty-acre lots of land.
The county asserts title under the swamp-land act of September
28, 1850, 9 Stat. 519, ch. 81, and the railroad company under
the Iowa land-grant act of May 15, 1856, 11 Stat. 9, ch. 28.
The company, in its answer, denied the title of the county, on
the ground that the lands were not swamp lands within the
meaning of the swamp-land act, and took issue on every material averment of fact in the bill to support a title under that
act. It then set up its own title under the land-grant act.
The petition averred a selection of the lands in dispute, as

