OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

parties, where, a jury being waived, the cause was tried by the
court, a review of such rulings of the court in the progress of
the trial as were excepted to at the time, and duly presented
by bill of exceptions, and also a review of the judgment of the
court upon the question whether the facts specially found by
the court were sufficient to support its judgment. In other
respects the old law remained unchanged. In the present case
the bill of exceptions presents no ruling of the court made in
the progress of the trial, and there is no special finding of facts.
The general finding is conclusive of the issues of fact against
the plaintiff in error, and there is no question of law presented
by the record of which the court can take cognizance.
It follows that
The judgment of the Circuit Court must be affirmed; and it
is so ordered.
The cases, Tne Town of Sheldon v. C. T Day and The Town
of Sheldon v. T ZT .Fairbanks,both in error to the Circuit Court

of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois, are, in
all respects, similar to the case just decided.
Te judgments in these cases must, therefore, be affirmed; and
it is so ordered.

STREEPER & Another v. VICTOR SEWING MACHINE
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
Submitted December 15, 184.-Decided January 5,1865.

A written agreement between a company making sewing machines, and a consignee to receive and sell them on commission, provided that the commission
should be calculated on the retail prices for which the machines should be
sold, as reported by the consignee, and that attachments should be sold to
the consignee at the lowest wholesale rates. The proceeds of sales of machines, beyond the commission, belonged to the company. In a suit by it
against the consignee and a person liable with him, on a bond for his indebtedness, to recover such proceeds, and the sale price of attachments,
the complaint set forth schedules showing the retail price of each machine
sold, as so reported, and the excess of money, beyond commission, retained

STREEPER v. SEWING MACHINE COMPANY.

677

Opinion of the Court.

by the consignee, and the price of each attachment sold to the consignee:
HrWC, That the complaint was sufficient.
The consignee and another person united in a bond to tho company, conditioned
that the former should pay to it all moneys which should become due under,
or arise from, the written agreement, and waiving notice of non-payment :
Held, That the liability of the surety arose on the bond, and that of the consignee on the bond or the written agreement, and that the statute of limitations in regard to written instruments governed the case.
The condition of the bond extended to the payment of notes made or indorsed
by the consignee, and transferred to the company.
So far as the surety was concerned, his waiver or notice applied to a default by
the consignee.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
2L'. J. G. Sutherland and 3fr. John Pi. _McBi-'A
pellants.

for ap-

.fr. Carks W. Bennett for appellee.

MR.

JUSTICE BLATO- oRD delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought in the District Court of the Third
Judicial District of the Territory of Utah, on the 13th of
June, 1879, by the Victor Sewing Machine Company, against
two persons named Crockwell and Bassett, and two others
named Streeper and Murphy. On the 28th of June, 1875, the
company, of one part, and Crockwell and Bassett, of the other,
entered into a written agreement, whereby the former was (1)
to deliver sewing machines to the latter, as consignees at'
Chicago, on their order; (2) the latter to sell them in Utah Territory, and, if possible, for cash; all promissory notes taken to be
guaranteed by the latter and delivered to the former; indorsement of the nbtes by the latter before sach delivery to be such
guaranty; all notes taken to be payable to the order of the
former, not more than twelve months from the date of sale;
(3) the latter to sell all consignel machines and remit for them
within four months from date of shipment'; on failure to so sell
and remit, the former, after the four months, to be at liberty to
charge the latter with all machines consigned four months, and
not settled for, at their retail price, less forty per cent., and such
amounts to be immediately due on demand; (4) the latter to

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

report every week machines on hand, and those sold, with terms
of sale, and remit the proceeds of sale; (5) on report, and remittance, and approval, the former to credit the latter as follows: On a cash remittaur- of one-half of the retail price of
machines sold, fifty per cent. of their retail price; on sales for
notes running not more than six months from sale, forty-five per
cent. of such retail price; on sales for notes running more than
six, and not more than nine, months from sale, forty per cent.
of such retail price; on sales for notes running more than nine,
and not more than twelve, months from sale, thirty-five per
cent. of such retail price; the latter to be charged with the difference between the amounts remitted and the retail prices reported, and to remit such an amount as will equal the retail
price of the machines reported sold (less said commissions), with
five per cent. of the retail price of machines sold for notes, such
five per cent. to remain with the former till the termination of
the contract, and the payment of all notes taken under it, and,
after deducting therefrom the cost of collecting the notes,
and expenses of settling the contract, the former to pay to
the latter such part of the five per cent. as should be dub to
them; (6) the former to sell parts of their machines at forty
per cent. discount from list prices, and attachments at the lowest wholesale rates, both to be settled for with cash every thirty
days, unless time should be agreed for, when twenty per cent.
should be added to regular cash prices; (7) the former to be
at liberty to terminate the contract, and retake their property at
any time, charging the latter for loss of or damage to machines;
the latter to have the right to take the machines at the retail
price as if new, less forty per cent.; the latter to be sole agents
for certain counties in Utah while satisfactorily performing
the contract; (8) the latter to pay a monthly rent for each
wagon furnished by the former; the former to have the right
to make, on notice, certain variations in the time of the notes;
the latter tW be at liberty, for such machines as they shall dispose of during each month otherwise than for cash or note, to
give their personal notes, on an average of six months' time, at
the retail price of the machines, less forty per cent., or their personal notes on an average of nine months' time, at the retail

STREEPER v. SEWING MACHINE COMPANY.

679

Opinion of the Court.
price of the machines, less thirty-five per cent.; the former to
have the right to terminate and renew this last provision at
their election.
On the 3d of July, 1875, the four defendants executed. on
the back of said agreement, a joint. and several bond, under
seal, to the plaintiff, in the penalty of $3,000, with the following condition: "The condition of this obligation is such, that
if the above bounden George Wallace Crockwell and Charles
Henry Bassett, Jr., shall pay unto said Victor Sewing Machine
Company all moneys due, or which shall become due, to said
Victor Sewing Machine Company, under or pursuant to the
within contract, or which shall arise therefrom, whether by
book accounts, notes, renewals or extensions of notes or accounts, acceptances, indorsements, or otherwise, hereby waiving.presentment for payment, notioe of non-payment, protest
or notice of protest, and diligence, upon all notes now or hereafter executed, indorsed, transferred, guaranteed, assigned, and
shall well and truly keep and perform, in all respects, according to its true intent and meaning, the contract or agreement
to which this obligation is attached, executed between the said
Victor Sewing M achine Company and G W. Crockwell and C.
H. Bassett, Jr., dated at Salt Lake City, the 28th day of June,
1875, then this obligation to be void; otherwise, to remain in
full force and virtue. But said contract may be varied or
modified by the mutual agreement of said Sewing Machine
Company and said G. W. Crockwelland C. H. Bassett, Jr., as
to the manner of carrying on said business, or as to the time
on which notes taken shall be drawn, or as to the compensation to be paid to said G. W. Crockwell and C. H. Bassett, Jr.,
or as to the period at which said G. W. Crockwell and C. H.
Bassett, Jr., shall report to said company for the machines they
may sell, or as to the territory on which said machines shall
be shipped or sold, or as to the place from which said machines
shall be shipped, and such changes and modifications or variations shall in nowise affect or impair our liability' on this
bond."
This suit is brought to recover the amount of the penalty of
the bond. The complaint sets forth in hco verba the agree-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

ment and the bond, and alleges that the defendants failed to
perform the condition of the bond that Crockwell and Bassett
should perform the agreement, in that,(after reciting the provisions of clauses four and five of the agreement), between July
3, 1875, and February 10, 1876, the plaintiff, at the request of
Crockwell and Bassett, consigned to them, under the agreement, divers sewing machines, which they sold before 1878,
but they did not remit the proceeds, or the part to which the
plaintiff was entitled, to the amount of $146.82, "a detailed
and itemized account of which said sales, showing the machines
received from plaintiff and sold by said Crockwell and Bassett,
and the amounts remitted, with the proper credits thereon, and
the amounts due and not remitted, as well as the balance
thereon now due plaintiff, is hereto attached, marked Exhibit
A, and made a part of this complaint." Exhibit A is a commission account, Crockwell and Bassett with the company, containing sales reported, with prices, and notes received, with
dates, times, and amounts, and in which Crockwell and Bassett
are debited with moneys retained by them, and rent of wagon
and collection charges, and a machine consigned over four
months, and commission before allowed and now charged back
on a machine returned, and are credited with their commissions,
and the amounts of the notes taken for the returned machine,
showing a balance of $146.82 due to the plaintiff.
The complaint further alleges, that the defendants failed to
perform the condition of the bond that Crockwell and Bassett
should pay to the plaintiff all moneys due or to become due to
it under the agreement, and should perform the agreement, in
that, the plaintiff, between July 3, 1875, and February, 1876,
under clause six of the agreement, at the request of Crockwell and Bassett, consigned to them parts of machines at forty
per cent. discount from list prices, and attachments at the
-lowest wholesale rates, to be settled for in cash by them every
thirty days; unless time was agreed for, when twenty per cent.
was to be added to regular cash prices; but Crockwell and
Bassett did uot settle therefor, with cash, in thirty days, and
had not paid therefor; that the money which, by clause six,
they were required to pay to the plaintiff, amounted to $87.97;

STREEPER v. SEWING MACHINE COMPAY.

681

Opinion of the Court.
and that "a detailed and itemized account, showing the parts
of machines and attachments so furnished Crockwell and Bassett, and the amounts paid plaintiff therefor, and showing the
amounts which should have been, but w6re not, paid plaintiff
by defendants Crockwell and Bassett, with the balance now
due plaintiff by Crockwell and Bassett, is hereto attached,
marked Exhibit B, and made a part of this complaint." Exhibit B is an attachment account, by items, debiting Crockwell
and Bassett with articles furnished, and giving them credits,
resulting in a balance of $87.97 due to plaintiff.
The complaint further alleges, that the defendants failed to
perform the condition of the bond that Crockwell and Bassett
should pay the plaintiff all monEys due, or which should become due, to it, under the agreement, or which should arise
therefrom, and should perform the agreement, in that, the
plaintiff, between July 3, 1875, and February; 1876, under the
agreement and bond, at the request of Crockwell and Bassett,
consigned to them sewing machines, which they sold after July
3, 1875, and before April, 1876; that, under the bond and
clause eight of the agreement, Crockwell and Bassett, between
the dates named, gave to the plaintiff their personal promissory
notes, for the price of the machines, and at the rates for the
machines, mentioned in the agreement; and that "a list and
"description of said notes is herewith filed, marked Exhibit C,
and male a part of this complaint." Exhibit C shows the date
of each notej the time of its maturity, that all the notes were
made by Crockwell and Bassett and payable to the plaintiff,
and the iunount of each note, or the balance due thereon, exclusive of interest. The complaint alleges that the whole
amount of them is $1,766.10, to which is to be added $609.93,
for interest on them, and $237.60, for attorney's fees for
collection, making, in all, $2,613.63, and that Crockwell and
Bassett have failed to pay that sum and owe it to the plaintiff.
The complaint further alleges, that the defendants failed to
perform the condition of the bond that Crockwell and Bassett
should pay to the plaintiff all moneys due, or which should become due, to it, under the agreement, or which should arise

682

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

therefrom,'and should perform the agreement, in this, that,
between July 3, 1875, and February 10, 1876, the plaintiff,
under the bond and agreement, and at the request of Crockwell and Bassett, consigned to them sewing machines, which,
prior to the last date, they sold, and took therefor the promissory notes of the vendees, payable to the order of the plaintiff,
which notes Crockwell and Bassett indorsed and guaranteed
and delivered to the plaintiff, this being done under clause two
of the agreement; and that "a list and description of said
promissory notes is herewith filed, marked Exhibit D, and.
mnade a part of this complaint." Exhibit D shows the date of
each note, the time of its maturity, and its amount. The complaint alleges that the principal of the notes amounis to $358.83;
and that neither their makers nor Crockwell and Bassett have
paid them, but owe them to the plaintiff.
It thus appears that the suit covers four claims: (1) proceeds
of sales of machines; (2) purchase price of attachments; (3)
personal notes for machines consigned; (4) guaranteed notes
for machines consigned.
Murphy and Streeper answered, denying specifically the
breaches alleged; setting up that all the items in Exhibits A
and B accrued more than two years before the suit was commenced, and it was not commenced within the time prescribed
by the laws of Utah Territory; claiming a further credit
of $203 on Exhibit A; denying that the non-payment of the
notes covered by Exhibit C or by Exhibit D was a breach of
the condition of the bond; and alleging that Crockwell and
Bassett had no notice of the non-payment of the notes covered
by Exhibit D. The answer further sets up, that, in March,
1876, the plaintiff, by its agent, applied to Murphy to become
surety on a second bond, on a new contract with Crockwell and Bassett; and that a settlement, amounting to an
accord and satisfact'on, was had between the plaintiff and
Crockwell and Bassett, as to the matters covered by the
complaint, and its agent informed Streeper and Murphy
thereof, and that the existing bond was discharged, and Murphy signed the second bond on that assurance, Crockwell
and Bassett being then able to indemnify Streeper and Mur-

STREEPER v. SEWING M.ACHINE COMPANY.

683

Opinion of the Court.
phy against liability on the first bond, and having since become insolvent. Crockwell and Bassett also answered.
The cause was referred to a referee to "hear, determine and
report a judgment." He reported findings of fact and conclusions of law. He reported the facts to be as alleged in the complaint, as to the items of Exhibits A, B, C and D, with a credit
on Exhibit A of $31.22, and that there was due from Crockwell and Bassett, on Exhibit C, at least $2,750, exclusive of allowance for attorney's fees, and on Exhibit D over $450, and
due and unpaid from Crockwell and Bassett to the plaintiff, on
account of the several matters set forth in the complaint, more
than $3,000; that the Exhibits fully credited all sums remitted
by Crockwell and Bassett; and that there was no settlement
or accounting between Crockwell and Bassett and the plaintiff,
and no adjustment of their indebtedness to it, and no agreement or accord or satisfaction made in regard to such indebtedness. The report then proceeded: "8th. In March, 1876, a new
contract for the sale of machines was made between the plaintiff and said Crockwell and Bassett, and a new bond given by
the latter, upon which the defendant Edmund t. Murphy became a surety. Pending the negotiations for such new contract,
and before said Murphy became surety on the new bond, he inquired of George Wilkinson, who was the agent of the plaintiff
to negotiate the new agreement, in regard to the past business
and the object of the new bond, and said Wilkinson informed
him, in substance, thac said Crockwell and Bassett had done
well, that the business was satisfactory to the plaintiff, and the
plaintiff was about to give them a new contract, under whieb
they would get a larger per cent. and have a better opportunity
to make money. No other or further representations were made
to said defendant Murphy prior to the execution by him of the
new bond, and said representations were not false. At thattime
no settlement had been made of the accounts, but, from casually
looking over the accounts, it appeared that Crockwell and Bassett had, in the shape of notes and leases, far in excess of what
they owed, and, had the notes turned over to the plaintiff, and
the notes and leases held by them, been good and collectible,
the same would have far exceeded their liabilities. At that

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

time but a small portion of the indebtedness of Crockwell and
Bassett to plaintiff was due, and it was not known but that
the notes and leases taken by Crockwell and Bassett were
generally good and collectible. 9th. About November, 1876,
when the business of plaintiff was taken from Crockwell
and Bassett, and turned over to another party, the said defendant Edmund H. Murphy, in the presence of defendant
Crockwell and others, incuired of said Wilkinson, who was
plaintiff's agent to turn over said business, in regard to the
condition of the business of Crockwell and Bassett, when the
following conversation occurred between said Murphy and
A Jy : So far as the bondsmen are
Wilkinson: 'Q. .Mr. Xu
concerned, how did they stand? A. 316. Wulkinson: So far
as the boys (Crockwell and Bassett) have acted, they could not
do better; everything is satisfactory and the business has been
turned over to another party and everything is agreeable. Q.
If that is the case the bondsmen have nothing further to
bother about? A. No; everything is satisfactory and the
business has been turned over.' This is the substance of representations made at that time, and I find that said defendant
Murphy got the impression that he was released on the bonds.
10th. About the 28th-of March, 1876, and during the negotiation for the, new contract and bond, Crockwell and Bassett,
desiring to obtain the defendant Streeper as surety on the new
bond, called him into their office, and, in the presence of said
Wilkinson, and during a conversation there, Charles H. Bassett informed said Streeper he had nothing to fear; and then
Streeper asked Wilkinson if he was released or relieved on the
first bond, and Wilkinson informed him he had nothing to
fear on that, and made an affirmation which induced Streeper
to believe he was no longer liable. Streeper did not execute
the new bona. 11th. There is no evidence to show that any
change has occurred in the financial condition of Crockwell
and Bassett since the spring of 1876, and I find that no such
change has occurred. 12th. At the time of the commencement
of this action pone of the notes guaranteed by Crockwell and
Bassett, as aforesaid, had been due four years, and there is no
evidence of any change in the financial condition of the

STREEPER v. SEWING MACHINE COMPANY.

685

Opinion of the Court.
makers. 13th. George Wilkinson had no authority from plaintiff to bind the plaintiff by any declaration as to the release of
the said bonds or either of them. And I find he did not intend to make any statement concerning the release which was
untrue, or to deceive or mislead the defendants or any of
them, and his statements were rather in the nature of assent
to, or non-denial of, statements made by Crockwell and Bassett in his presence. I do not find he had or exercised any
such apparent authority as should induce the defendants to
rely on his statements concerning the business of Crockwell
and Bassett or the satisfaction of said bonds, without further
inquiry."
The referee found the following conclusions of law:
"1. The non-payment of the several sums found due and
unpaid from Crockwell and Bassett to the plaintiff, as in the
findings of fact specified, constitute breaches of said bond, and
for which breaches the sureties as well as the principals are
liable.
2. The action on the bond at the time of the commencement
thereof was not barred by the statute of limitations, in respect
to any of said breaches.
3. The plaintiff is not estopped, nor its action barred or affected, against any of the debts, by reason of any representations made to the defendant M urphy or Streeper prior to or
since the execution of the second- bond referred to in* the answer, nor was the execution of the second bond by the sureties
procured by fraud.
4. The plaintiff is entitled to judgment that it have and recover of and from the defendants the sum of three thousand
dollars, and the costs of this action, to be taxed."
Streeper and Mlurphy filed exceptions to the findings of fact
after the seventh, and to all the conclusions of law. Judgment was entered for $3,000 and costs, against all the defendants. Streeper and Murphy appealed to the Supreme Court
of the Territory, which affirmed the judgement. Murphy having afterwards died, his administratrix and Streeper appeaed
to this court. (See Victor Sewing if-acne Co. v. Crockwell, 2
Utah, 557, and I " est Coast Reporter, 428.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

It is assigned for error, that the complaint is insufficient to
support the judgment, because the first two causes of action,
those relating to Exhibits A and B, do not allege the value of
the goods consigned, either by the article or in the aggregate.
The objection made is, that, although the agreement states the
shares to which the plaintiff and the consignees are to be respectively entitled, it fixes no price on the machines. The answer to this is, that the agreement states that the retail prices
for which the machines consigned are sold, as reported by the
consignees, are the prices on which the commissions of the
consignees are to be calculated; and that the agreement fixes
the prices of parts of the machines at forty per cent. discount
from list prices, and the prices of attachments at the lowest
wholesale rates. By the agreement, when the fixed commissions are deducted from the retail prices of sales, the rest belongs to the plaintiff ; and Exhibit A shows the retail price of
each machine sold, as reported by the consignees, and how
much they retained beyond what they were entitled to retain
as commissions, and Exhibit B shows the price of each attachment sold to the consignees. The Exhibits, in connection with
the complaint, make the matter definite.
It is also contended, as to the first two causes of action, that
the liability of the defendants arose on the sale of goods to the
consignees, and that the two years' limitation applies to those
causes 6f action. Murphy and Streeper were not parties to
the agreement. Their liability arose on the bond exclusively.
All the defendants were parties to the bond. This is a suit on
the bond, and what are called by the defendants, causes of action, are only breaches of the condition of the bond. As the
agreement was executory, it was necessary to set out consignments and sales, and resulting amounts due, to establish breaches.
Even as regards the consignees, an action against them, if not
on the bond, would be on the written agreement. The condition of the bond is, that the consignees shall pay all moneys
which shall become due "under or pursuant to the within
contract, or which shall arise therefrom, whether "by book
accoints, notes, renewals or extensions of notes, or accounts."
We are of opinion that, this suit being on a written instru-

STREEPER v. SEWING MACHINE COMPANY.

687

Opinion of the Court.
ment, the limitation was four years, and the action was not
barred.
It is also urged, that Streeper and Murphy are not bound
for the payment of the notes made or guaranteed by the consignees, and that their obligation was discharged when those
notes were made or guaranteed. iBut it appears clear to us
that the condition of the bond is, that the consignees shall pay
all money which shall become due, by their notes, or their indorsbments, or otherwise (the agreement making the indorsement a guaranty of payment). Ltnguage could hardly be
stronger or more full. .Dixon v. Horoyd, '7 ElL. & 131. 903.
It is also urged, that the facts found constitute an estoppel,
as to Murphy and Streeper. The findings of fact negative the
allegations of the answer setting up this defence. What occurred in November, 1876, is outside of any issue raised by the
answer.
A point is made that the complaint does not aver that "Murphy and Streeper had notice of the default of the consignees;
that no notice is shown; and that the bond contains no waiver
of sv "hnotice. Assuming that the point may now be taken,
the findings are silent as to notice, but they show there was
no prejudice for want .of notice. Moreover, the condition of
the bond is absolute, that the consignees shall pay all moneys
which shall become due to the plaintiff under the agreement,
the obligors waiving notice of hon-payment on all n6tes executed, indorsed or guaranteed. -As Murphy and Streeper did
not make or indorse the notes, their waiver could only apply to
default by the consignees.
We see no error in the record, and
The judgment i afirmed.

