OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

MURPHY, Administratrix, v. VICTOR SEWING MA-

CHINE COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRORY

OF UTAH.

Submitted December 15, 1884.-Decided January 5, 1885.

A bond by a principal and a surety was conditioned that the principal should
pay to V all indebtedness existing or to exist from the principal to V under
existing or future contracts between him and V, and waived notice of nonpayment on all notes executed, indorsed or guaranteed by the principal to
V. In a suit on the bond, against the obligors, to recover the amount of
notes executed by the principal to V, and other notes indorsed and guaranteed by him to V : Held, That it was not necessary to allege or show any
notice to the surety of a default by the principal in paying V.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
-r.J. G. Sutherla/nd and -fr. John R. .Ychride for appellant.
.Xr. Cha,1*ls 7. Bennett for appellee.
BL&TcHFo RDdelivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought in the District Court of the Third
Judicial Court of the Territory of Utah, on the 1st of October,
1879, by the Victor Sewing Machine Company, against two
persons named Crockwell and Bassett and one namled Murphy.
On the 11th of March, 1876, the company, of one part, and
Crockwell and Bassett, copartners by that name, of the other,
entered into a written agreement, whereby (1) the former appointed the latter exclusive agents for the sale of the Victor
sewing machine for certain counties in Utah Territory; (2) the
former to deliver the machines, free of charge, at Chicago;
(3) the former to sell the machines to the latter at fifty per
cent. discount from retail list of prices, and parts and attachments at regular agents' prices; (4) settlement to be made by
note at twelve months from first of month following date of
invoice, payable to the former, or its order, at bank in Salt
Lake City, with six per cent. interest, or, in lieu, the latter
may indorse and assign to the former promissory notes, .drawMR. JUsTiCE

MURPHY v. SEWING MACHINE COMPANY.

685

Opinion of the Court.
ing interest, given to the latter, not payable lon~erthan twelve
months from the time they are received by the former.
On the same day, the three defendants executed a joint and
several bond, under seal, to the plaintiff, in the penalty of
$2,000, with a condition, of which all that is material to thi3
case was as follows: "The condition of this obligation is such,
that if the above-bounden Crockwell & Bassett shall well and
truly pay, or cause to be paid, unto the said Victor-Sewing
Machine .Company, any and everr indebtedness or liability
now existing, or which may hereafter in any manner exist, or
be incurred, on the part of the said Crockwell & Bassett to- the
said Victor Sewing Machine Company, whether such indebtedness or liability shall exist in the shape of book accounts, notes,
guaranteed leases, renewals or extensions of notes, accounts, or
guaranteed leases, acceptances, indorsements, or otherwise, or
whether such liability shall arise from the consignment of machines or other property to the said Crockwell & Bassett by the
said Victor Sewing Machine Company, under any existing contract, or any contract which shall be hereafter entered into in
writing by and between the said Crockwell & Bassett and the
said Victor Sewing Machine Company, hereby waiving presentment for payment, notice of non-payment, protest, or notice of protest, and diligence, upon all notes or leases now or
hereafter executed, indorsed, 'transferred, guaranteed, or assigned by the said Crockwell & 'Bassett to the Victor Sewing
Machine Company, then this obligation to be void; but otherwise to be in full force and effect."
This suit is brought to recover the amount of the penalty of
the bond. The complaint sets forth -inkec verba the agreement and the bond, and avers, that, between the 11th of March,
1876, and the 1st of January, 1877, the plaintiff, in pursuance
of the agreement and at the request of Crockwell & Bassett,
sold and delivered to them, Victor sewing machines, of the
value of more than $5,000; that the defendants have broken
the conditions of the bond, in that, Crockwell & Bassett, in
part payment for such machines, made and delivered to the,
plaintiff their four promissory inotes, one for $42.50, dated
April 1, 1876, at 12 months, with interest, one for $1, 16.75,
VOL. CX-44

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

dated :May 2, 1876, at 12 months, with interest, one for $49.50,
dated September 9, 1876, at 9 months; with interest, and one
for $369.47, dated September 1, 1876, at 12 months, with interest, all providing for 10 per cent. interest per annum after
due until paid, and 10 per cent. attorney's fees, if collected by
an attorney; that Crockwell & Bassett, between the dates first
named, resold to purchasers some of the machines, and took
the notes of the purchasers therefor, and, in part payment to
the plaintiff, indorsed and guaranteed the payment of said
notes, and delivered them to the plaintiff, their principal
amounting to $1,012; that Exhibit B to the complaint contains a statement of the date of each note, the date when due,
the name of the maker,. and the amount ;.and that there is due
to the plaintiff on all of said notes over $4,200, for principal,
interest and attorney's fees, less a credit of $1,226.31.
Murphy answered, denying specifically the breaches alleged,
setting up payment of the notes by Crockwell & Bassett, and
averring, that the contract and bond were procured by fraud,
and misrepresentations on the part of the plaintiff, made to
Crockwell & Bassett, and on which they relied, which the plaintiff knew to be untrue, and which are set forth; and that the
defendants were induced to execute the bond by false and
fradulent representations of the plaintiff in this : that the plaintiff represented to the defendants that it was well acquainted
with the business of Crockwell & Bassett, that they were in
good credit, and were good business men, and had promptly
met their obligations, and would make money out of the proposed contract with the plaintiff, whereas the plaintiff knew
that they were then in failing circumstances, and were not able
to pay their debts, and were not good business men, and were
at that time indebted to the plaintiff, and had not met their obligations, and that they would lose money on the proposed contract with the plaintiff; and that the defendants signed the
bond solely on the faith and credit which they gave to those
representations. Crockwell & Bassett also answered.
The cause was referred to a referee to "hear, determine and
report a judgment." lHe reported findings of fact and conclusions of law. He found the facts to be as alleged in the

MURPHY v. SEWING MACHINE COMPANY.

691

Opinion of the Court.
complaint, and that there was due, at the commencement of the
suit, from Crockwell & Bassett, to the plaintiff, in respect of the
matters set forth in the complaint, over $2,000, exclusive of
offsets and attorney's fees; and that the execution neither of
the agreement nor of the bond was procured by any false or
fraudulent representations made to Crockwell. & Bassett, or
either of them, by the plaintiff. The report then. proceeded:
"I find the defendant Edmund H. Murphy did not execute said
bond on or relying upon the representations set forth in the last
defence of the answer of the sureties, and that the material part
of said alleged representations was not made; that he inquired
of George Wilkinson, plaintiff's agent in negotiatingsaid agreement and bond, the .object thereof and the condition of the
business, and said Wilkinson informed said Murphy that the
plaintiff proposed to give Crockwell & Bassett a new contract,
and larger commissions and an opportunity to make more
money; that, so far as they had acted, it was to the satisfaction
of the plaintiff. I find that the business of Crockwell & Bassett
did then appear to be in good condition, and they had thus far
acted to the satisfaction of the plaintiff; that said Wilkinson
made no settlement of the business with Crockwell & Bassett,'
but they had then given and turned over guaranteed notes to
the plaintiff to the full amount of their indebtedness; that said
notes were not due, and their indebtedness to the plaintiff on
cash account very small; that they held in their hands notes
and leases taken on sales of machines, far in excess of their
liabilities, and, had said notes and leases, and the notes guaranteed and delivered to the plaintiff, been good and collectible,
the contrary of which was not then known to the plaintiff or its
agent, the business of Crockwell & Bassett would have been in
good condition; that the said George Wilkinson, in November,
1876, had no authority from the plaintiff except to take the
business out of the hands of Crockwell & Bassett and turn it
over to another party. ie did not have in his possession said
agreement or bond, or the notes mentioned in the complaint,
or exercise or claim to exercise any authority, real or apparent,
in regard thereto."
The referee found the following conclusions of law:

692

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

"1. That there was due from the defendants Crockwell &
Bassett, to the plaintiff, at the time of the commencement of
the action, on account of the matters stated in the complaint,
more than the sum of two thousand dollars, the non-payment
of which constituted breaches of the said bond.
2. That the execution of said bond was not procured by
fraud, and the plaintiff is not barred or estopped from enforcing the same, nor are the sureties thereon, or any of them,
discharged by reason of any matters occurring subsequent to
the execution of the bond.
3. The plaintiff is entitled to judgment against all the defendants, for the sum of two thousand dollars, and interest
at ten per cent. per annum from the commencement of the
action, to wit, the first day of October, i879, and costs of suit,
to be taxed."
Murphy filed exceptions to the findings of fact and the conclusions of law. Judgment was entered for $2,550 and costs.
Murphy appealed to the Supreme Court of the Territory, which
affirmed the judgment, and, he having afterwards died, his
administratrLh appealed to this court.
It is alleged, as error, that the complaint is insufficient in not
alleging notice to Murphy of the default of Crockwell & Bassett; and that no notice is shown. There is no force in this
objection. The condition of the bond is absolute, that Crockwell & Bassett shall pay all inebtedness, the obligors waiving
notice of non-payment on all notes executed, indorsed or guaranteed. As Murphy did not make or indorse the notes, his
waiver could only apply to a default by Crockwell & Bassett.
As to the defences of fraud and misrepresentation set up in
the answer, they are negatived by the findings.
The judgment isafflrmed.

