778

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Counsel for Parties.

the stipulation, the same in its effect for the purpose of a citation as the allowance of an appeal in open court during the
term at which the decree was rendered. But as the bond was
not filed until after the term, a citation or something equivalent was necessary, as matter of procedure, to give the appellees notice that the appeal which had been allowed in term
time had not been abandoned by the failure to furnish the
security before the adjournment. -Dodgev. K,-nowles, 114 U. S.
430; -ewit v. .. lbeirt, 116 U. S. 143. In the present case the
endorsement by the counsel for the appellees of his approval
of the -bondwas the equivalent of such a notice, and there was
no necessity for a citation in form..
The Tnotion is denied.

LEATIEER MANUFACTURERS'

BANhTK v. COOPER.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN

DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Submitted March 7,1887.-Decided March 21, 1887.

Since the act of July 12, i882, c. 290, took'effect, a suit by or against National
Banks cannot be removed from a state court to a Circuit Court of the
United States, unless a similar suit by or against a state bank in like situation with the National Bank could be so removed.
A case does not arise under the laws of the United States simply because
this'court has decided in another suit the questions of law which are
involved.
A case is not removable because a colorable assignment has been made to give
a state court exclusive jurisdiction.
Provident Savings Society v. Ford,
114 U. S. 635, and Oakley v. Goodnow, 118 U. S. 43, on this point affirmed.

writ of error was sued out to review an order of the
Circuit Court remanding the cause to the state court from which
it had been removed.
THIS

.Xr. Gharles X. Da Costa and M'. _Hoel B. Sanborn for
plaintiff in error.
M'. John . Bowers for defendant in error.

LEATHER MANUFACTURERS' BANK v. COOPER.

779

Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WArrE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a' writ of error, brought under § 5 of the act of
March 3, 1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 470, for the review of an order
of the Circuit Court remanding a suit which had been removed
from the Supreme Court of the county and state of New York.
The suit was begun June 1, 1886, by William B. Cooper, Jr.,
a citizen of New York, against the Leather Manufacturers'
National Bank to recover a balance of account due from the
bank to the firm of Ashburner & Co., which had been assigned
to him. The bank was originally.organized under the National
Banking Act, c. 106, 13 Stat. 99, on the 27th of May, 1865, and
its corporate existence was extended May 27, 1885, under the
act of July 12, 1882, c. 290, 22 Stat. 162. Its place of business
is in. the city of New York, in the state of New York.
Section 4 of the act of July 12, 1882, is as follows:
SEC. 4. "That any association so extending the period of
ita succession shall c.ontinue to enjoy all the rights and privileges and immunities granted, and shall continue to be subject
to all the duties, liabilities, and restrictions imposed by the
Revised Statutes of the United States and other acts having
reference to national banking ass6ciations, and it shall continue to be in all respects the identical association it was
before the extension of its period of succession: Pr"ovided,
however, That the jurisdiction for suits hereafter brought by
or against any association established under any law providing for national banking associations, except suits between
them and the United States, or its officers and agents, shall
be the same as, and not other than, the jurisdiction for suitsby or against banks not organized under any law of the United
States which do or might do banking business where such
national banking associations may be doing business w'hen
such suits may be begun: and all laws and parts of laws of
the United States inconsistent with this proviso be, and the
same are hereby, repealed."
On the 23d of September, 1886, the bank presented its petition to the state court for the removal of the suit to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

New York under the act of Mlarch 3, 1875, on the ground of
its being a national bank, and consequently the suit was one
arising under the laws of the United States. The cause was
duly entered in the Circuit Court October 4, 1886, and, on the
9th of the same -month, Cooper moved that it be remanded.
This motion was granted October 22, because § 4 of the act of
July 12, 1882, had taken away from national banks the right
of removing suits under the act of 1875 on the ground of
their being Federal corporations. To reverse that order this
writ of error was brought.
The act of 1882 repeals in express terms "all laws and parts
of laws of the United States" inconsistent with its provisions,
and enacts that jurisdiction for suits thereafter brought by or
against national banks, with few exceptions, "shall be the
same as. and not other than, the jurisdiction for suits by or
against banks not organized under any law of the United
States" doing business where the national bank "may be
doing business when such suits may be begun." This was evidently intended to put national banks on the same fobting as
the banks of the state where they were located for all the purposes of the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States.
The first national banking act, that of February 25, 1863, c.
58, 12 Stat. 681, provided, in § 59, that suits by and against
banks organized thereunder might be brought in any "circuit,
district, or territorial court of the United States held within
the district in which such association may be established."
By the act of June 3, 1864, c. 106, § 57, 13 Stat. 116, there
wa tdded to this, "or in any state, county, or municipal court
in the county or city in which such association is located, having jurisdiction in similar cases." Both these provisions were
carried into § 5198 of the Revised Statutes by the amendatovy
act of February 18, 1875, c. 80, 18 Stat. 320.
The removal of this class of cases from a state court to a
Circuit Court was first provided for by the act of March 3,
1875, in that clause of § 2 which relates to suits "arising under
the Constitution or laws of the United States," as construed in
the raci#c Pailroad Remova Cases, 115 U. S.1. Thus the
Federal and state courts had concurrent jurisdiction for suits

LEATHER MANUFACTURERS' BANK-r. COOPER.

'1-81

Opinion of the Court.'

brought by or against national banks, and a suit of that character begun in a state court could be removed by either party
to a Circuit Court of the United States, if the value of the
matter in dispute exceeded five hundr~d dollars, because, as a
national bank is a Federal corporation, a suit by or against it
is necessarily a suit arising under the laws of the United States.
But the act of 1882 provided in clear and unmistakable terms
that the courts of the United States should not have jurhds;ction of such suits thereafter brought, save in a few classes of
cases, unless they would have jurisdictIon under like circumstances of suits by or against astate bank doing business in
the same state with the national bank. The provision is not
that no such suit shall be brought by or against such a national
bank in a Federal court, but that a Federal court shall not
have jurisdiction. This clearly implies that such a suit can
%either be brought nor removed there, for jurisdiction of such
suits has been taken away, unless a similar suit could be entertained by the same court by or against a state bank in like
situation with the national bank. Consequently, so long as
the act of 1882 was in force, nothing in the way of jurisdiction
could be claimed by a national bank because of the source of
its incorporation. A national bank was by that statute placed
before the law in this respect the same as a bank not organized under the laws of the United States.
A suggestion was made in argument that the case is one
arising under the laws of the United States, for the reason that
the cause of action is identical with that sued on in 1eather
lamufacturers' National Bank v. forgan, 117 U. S. 96, decided by this court at the last term, and in which the principles"of law which go-ern the rights of the parties were determined. Nothing of the kind, however, appears in the record,
and if it did it would not authorize a removal. This is not
that suit, and a case does not arise under the laws of the United
States simply because this court, or anfy other Federal court,
has decided in another suit the questions of law which are
involved.
A case is not removable because a colorable assignment has
been made to give a state court exclusive jurisdiction. Provi-

OCTOBER TERM , 1886.
Statement of Facts.

dent Savings Society v. _Fo'd,114 U. S. 635, followed in Oakley
v. Goodnow, 118 U. S. 43.
The order to remand 'is c firmed.
X-u. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD did not take part in the decision of
this case.

EX 2PARTE HARDING.
ORIGINAL.
Submitted March 16, 1887.-Decided March 21, 1887.

Ex parte Iilson, 114 U. S. 417, affirmed on the point that this court cannot
discharge on habeas corpus a person imprisoned under the sentence of a
Circuit or District Court, in a criminal case, unless the sentence exceeds
the jurisdiction of that court, or there is no authority to hold the prisoner under sentence.
A territorial court is not deprived of its jurisdiction to try a person
indicted for a criminal offence by the fact that an alien sat on the grand
jury that found the indictment, under a provision of a territoial statute
permitting it.
The denial of compulsory process to enable a person charged with crime
to obtain witnesses at the trial in the court below, does not invalidate
the judgment.

T.HE following motion was made in this case:
Now comes the petitioner, by- his counsel, and .moves this
honorable court for leave to file petition praying for the issue
of the writ 9 f habeas corpus and for certiorari, and submits
thereon the accompanying brief.
And it appearing that said petitioner is now under sentence
of death, and his counsel being advised that execution of such
sentence is fixed for the 25th day of March, instant, the
speedy action of this honorable court in the premises is earnestly prayed.
Respectfully submitted.
A. T. BRITTON,
A. B. BROWNE,
J. K. TOOLE,
Consel for Petitioner.

