BOLLES v. BRIMFIELD.
Statement of Facts.

remedy authorized by these statutes, but being an independentaction at law upon: the original liability of the stockholde,'
cannot be maintained, and the Circuit Court rightly so held.

Judgment cafflrnwd.
MIR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD

did"not sit in this case, or take any

part its decision.

BOLLES v. BRIM:FIELD.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

FOR THE

Submitted January 6,1887.-Decided March 7, 1887.
By the act of the legislature of Illinois incorporatio, the Dixon, Peoria
and Hannibal Railroad Company, passed March 5, 1867, authority was
given to certain cities, incorporated towns, and townships, to subscribe
to its stock not exceeding 35,000. At an election duly called and held,
August 3, 1868, the town of Brimfield voted to subscribe $35,000, and at
the same time and place, but without legislative authority therefor, the
same electors voted to make an additional subscription of$15,000. March
31, 1869, the legislature passed an act reciting that the latter sum had
been voted by a majority of the legal voters in said township at said
election, and provided that said election "is hereby legalized and coufirmed, and is declared to be binding upon said township in the same
manner as if said subscription had been made under the provisions of
said charter." The township, by its proper officers, May 5, 1869, issued
bonds for both the subscriptions: -Yeld,
(1) At the time the bonds were issued there was no decision of the highest
court of Illinois denying the power of the legislature, by subsequent enactment, to legalize a municipal subscription to railroad stock which
would have been originally lawful if it had been made, in the mode !it
which it was made, under legislative authority previously granted.
(2) In such case this court is at liberty to exercise its independent judgment
as to the validity of such curative statutes.
(3) Th6 act ofr arch 31, 1869, is not in violation of the constitution of Illinois of 1848. It only gave effect to the wishes of the corporate authorities- the electors-of Brimfield, as ascertained in the customary mode.

Tis was an action at law to recover upon bonds and coupons issued by the defendant in error, a municipal corporation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

Demurrer to the declaration which was ove-ruled. Defendant
declining to answer further, the action was dismissed. The
case is stated in the opinion of the court.
-Mr. Thomas S.
plaintiffs in error.

oCtlelland and 1r. George A. Sanders for

.Mr. fenry B. Hfopkins and .Mr. William T. Hammond
for defendant in error.
2aMin. JUsTicE HRLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

In Anderson v. Santa Anna, 116 U. S. 356, 364, we had occasion to consider the validity of so-much of the act of the
legislature of Illinois of February 28, 1867, in reference to
municipal subscriptions to the stock of the Danville, Urbana,
Bloomington and Pekin Railroad Company, as declared ttiat
where elections had been held, and a majority of the legal
voters of any township or incorporated town declared in favor
of a subscription to the stock of that company, "then and in"
that case no other election need be held, and the amount so
voted for shall be subscribed" as in that act.provided; further,
"that such elections are hereby declared to be legal and valid,"
as though that act had been in force at the time thereof, and
all its provisions had been compli.ed with. Am election was
held in the township of Santa Anna, July 21, 1866, but there
was no authority of law for its being held. It was, however,
conducted in the-customary mode, and the proposition *fora
subscription was sustained by a majority of the legal vofers of
the township. The subscription was made October 1, 1867,
in pursuance of that vote, and of the curative act of Febiuary
28, 186'Z. The validity of bonds issued in payment of the subscription was disputed upon the ground that the last named
act was in violation of the constitution of Illinois. We held,
in-accordance with numerous decisions of this court cited in
the opinion, that subsequent legislative ratification of the acts
of a municipal corporation, which might lawfully have -been
performed under legislative sanction in the first instance, was
equivalent to original authority. We referred, in that case, to

BOLLES v. BRDIFIELD.
Opinion of the Court.

United States 3fortgage Co. v. Gross, 93 Ill. 483, 484, where
the Supreme Court of Illinois said, that "unless there be a
constitutioIal inhibition, a legislature has power, when it interferes with no vested right, to enact retrospective statutes to
validate invalid contracts or to ratify and confirm any act it
might lawfully have authorized in the first instance."
As a municipal corporation, organized for public purposes,
has, as a general rule, and as between it and the state, no
privileges or powers which are not subject at all times, under
the Constitution, to legislative control, and as the legislature
might legally have authorized a subscription by the township
of Santa Anna, with the assent of a majority of its legal
voters, we adjudged that the act of February 28, 1867, to be
within the constitutional power of the legislature to pass.
Does the present case come within these principles?
By the sixth section of an act of the General Assembly of
Illinois, approved March 5, 1867, incorporating the Dixon,
-Peoria and Hannibal Railroad Company, it is provided that
"the several counties in which any part of said road may.hereafter be located,' and the several townships in said. counties
which have adopted or may hereafter adopt township organizations, and the cities and incorporated towns in said counti6, are hereby authorized to subscribe and take stock in said
Dixon, Peoria and Hannibal Railroad Company." 2 Private
Laws Ill. 1867, 601, 606. The act restricted a subscription by
a county to $100,000, and a subscription by a township, city
or town to $35,000.
It is admitted that at an election duly notified and held, on
the 3d day of August, 1868, the town of Brimfield, by a vote
of one hundred and fifty as against fifty-six, lawfully voted to
subscribe $35,000 to the stock of the railroad company, and to
.ssue its bonds therefor. At the same time and place, but
without authority of law, an election was held- to take the
sense of the voters of the town as to an additional subscription
by it of $15,000 to the stock of the same company, for which
coupon bonds should be issued, payable in ten, fifteen and
twenty years. This last proposition was sustained by'a vote
of one hundred and fifty-three as against fifty-five.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court. "

On the 31st of March, 1869, the General Assembly of Illinois passed an act declaring "that a certain election, held in
the township of Brhnfield, -in Peoria County, on the 3d day of
August, 1868, at which a majority of the legaZ voters in said
township, in special town meeting, voted to subscribe for and
take fifteen thousand dollars of the capital stock of the Dixon,
Peoria and Hannibal Railroad Company over and above the
amount authorized to be taken by thecharter of said "Company,
is hereby legalized and confirmed, and is declared to be binding
upon said township, and may be collected from said township,
in the same manner as if said subscription had been made under
the provisions of said charter." 3 Priv. Laws 11. 1869, 372.
Subsequently,'May 5, 1869, the township, by its proper officers, issued to the company its coupon boiids for $35,000, in
pursuance of the vote at the first-named election, and also its
coupon bonds for $15,000, pursuant to the above vote at the
same time and place, payable in ten, fifteen and twenty years
as aforesaid.
The present suit is upon bonds and coupons of the latter
issue. A demurrer to a special plea setting forth these facts
was overruled, and, the plainti I -lecting to stand by the demurrer, the action was dismissed.
From this statement of the case, it is apparent that the
judgment below is inconsistent with the decision in Anderson
v. Santa Anna. It is not disputed that the bonds in suit would
be valid obligations of the town of Brimfield if the election of
August 3, 1868, at which they were v6ted, had been previously
authorized by statute. In other words, according to the s.ttled
doctrines of the Supreme Court of Illinois, it would have been
competent for the legal voters of the town, under legislative
authority for that purpose previously given - su;h voters
being its "corporate authorities" in the meaning of the state
constitution as interpreted by the highest court of Illinois to'have required the subscription to be made, ad the bonds to
be issued, which were in fact made and issued pursuant to the
unauthorized election of August 3, 1868. The question, then,
is, could the legislature, by subsequent ratification, make that
legal which was originally without legal sanction, butwhich

BOLLES v. BRIMFIELD.
Opinion of the Court.

it might, in the first instance, have authorized? A negative
answer to this question would be in conflict with numerous
decisions of this court upon the general question as to the
power of a legislature to enact curative statutes, when not restrained by constitutional provisions -the last of those decisions being Anderson v. Santa Anna. We adhere to what
has been heretofore said by this court upon that subject; and,
in doing so, we do not infringe upon the rule that, in respect
to rights arising under, ahd depending upon the interpretation
of, the constitution and laws of a state, this and other courts
of the United States will accept as controlling the established
doctrines of the highest court of the state, as announced before
such rights accrued. Burgess' v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20, 33 ;
Carroll County v. Smith, 111 U. S. 556, 563. Previous to the
issuing of the bonds in suit, May 5, 1869, there had been no
decision of the Supreme Court of Illinois to the effect that it
was beyond the power of the legislature to enact such a statute
as that of March 31, 1869, or that the legislature could not
ratify and confirm. such acts of a municipal corporation as
would have been lawful if done under previous legislative authority. On the contrary, its deci~ions- prior to that time, as
we endeavored to show in Anderson v. Santa Anna, tended to
sustain the validity, in such cases, of.retroactive legislation.
The first direct decision of the state court, so far as we are
aware, adverse to the validity of such legislation, was Silliman
v. 3farshall, 61 Ill. 218, 226, determined in 1871, after the
bonds in suit were issued. The cases of People exo
rel. iXefCagy
v. Jfayor of C6dcago, 51 Ill. 17,Peopleex rel. Wilson v. Solomon,
51 11. 37, People ex rel. South Prk Comnm' rs v. City of Ch, eago, 51 Ill. 58, Harward v. St. Clair, &~c., -Drainage Co., 51
Ill. 130, and other cases of that class cited by counsel, do not'
touch the question before us; for they decide, in effect, nothing more than that the power to levy taxes for local purposes
could be conferred only upon the corporate authorities of the
municipal body to be affected thereby -the, object of the constitutional provision that "the corporate authorities of counties, townships, school districts, cities, towns, and villages may
be vested with power to assess and collect taxes for corporate

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

purposes," being to define as well the class of municipal 6fflcers upon whom the power of taxation for local purposes
might be" conferred, as the purposes for which such power
could be constitutionally exercised. Quincy v. Cooke, 107
U. S. 549, 5541.
So that, substantially the same question is presented here
that arose in Andron v. Sata Anna. Having a clear conviction that the legislature did not transcend its power in enacting*the statute of March 31, 1869, and there being, to say
the least, at the time the bonds in suit were issued, no adjudication to the contrary in the Supreme Court of Illinois, we
cannot surrender our judgment upon that question and overrule the settled doctrines of this court, in deference to decisions by the state court, made long after the rights of the
plaintiff accrued. Burgess v. Seligman, Ca/rroll County v.
Smith, and Anderson v. Santa Anna. In holding that the
legislature did not violate the constitution o 'the state in
passing the act of March 31, 1869, we do not disregard those
decisions of the state court which hold that the legislature
cannot impose a debt, for local corporate purposes, upon a
municipal body, against the will of its corporate authorities.
For, as often held by the state court, the corporate authorities
of a town like Brihnfield are its legal voters, and they, at the
election of August 3, 1868, gave their consent to.the subscription and bonds in question. The same voters who approved
the subscription of $35,000, at the same time, and by means
of the same election machinery, approved an additional subscription for $15,000. There is no suggestion in the record
that the votes cast for the fatter subscription did not constitute
a majority df all the legal voters of the town. We must. pre-.
sume, upon this record, that the legislature ascertained, as
stated in the act in question, that such a majority had, at the
election of August 3, 1868, voted for the additional subscription of $15,000; and we do not see that the subsequent ratification by the legislature of what had been done by the voters
can be regarded as imposing a debt upon them against their
will. The legislature simply gave effect to the wishes of the
people, as expressed in the customary mode for ascertaining

NEW ORLEANS BANK v. LE BRETON.
Syllabus.

the popular will. GrenadaCountry Squvei'visor8 v. Progdem, 112
U. S. 261, 262; Anderson v. Santa Anna, 116 U. S. 356, 364.
T7te judgment must be reversed and the ease remanded for
It is so
further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
ordered.

NEW ORLEANS NiATIONAL BANKING ASSOCIATION v. LE BRETON.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Argued October 21, 2, 1886.--Decided Marh 21, 1887.

In Louisiana a holder of a first mortgage op real estate, duly executed before a notary with pact de non alienando, is not bound to give notice to
subsequent mortgagees, or to any person but the debtor in possession,
when he proceeds by executory process to obtain seizure and sale of the
mortgaged property to satisfy the mortgage debt.
In Louisiana a mortgage given to secure a future balance on an open unliquidated account is valid; and the acknowledgment of the amount of
the balance by the debtor, before a notmy, is all that is necessary to be
done under the Code, in order to ascertaiu it for the purposes of executory process.
In Louisiana, lnformqlities connected with or growing out of any public sale,
made by any person authorized to sell by public auction, are prescribed
agiiinst by those claiming under the sale after the lapse of five years
from the time of making it, whether against minors, married women, or
interdicted persons.
W, owning a plantation in Louisiana, and beinz embarrassed, agreed -with
several of his creditors and with K, that W should remain in possession
and work the plantation; that K should make annual advances to a stipulated amount to enable him to work it, and should receive and dispose of
the crops and apply their products, first to the payment of his own
account, and next to the payment of the debts -ofthe creditors; and that
for these advances and the balance on his account K should have a first
mortgage on the plantation with pact de non alienando, and that the
debts of said creditors should be secured by, a mortgage subsequent to
the lien to secure K's account. A'second mortgage was afterwards made
to K, with a like ,pact, and with an agreement, in which all joined, that
It should have priority over the first mortgage. The plantation was
worked at a loss, and K having made large advances, W acknowledged
the amount of them before a notary, and K proceeded .by executory pro-

