OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

ALLEN v. ST. LOUIS BANK.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED. STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOwA.
Argued April 9, 1836. -Decided January 10, 1887.
In an action in which ajury has been Waived in writing, and the judgment
of the Circuit Court is for more than 5000, the question whether the
facts set forth in a special finding of the court are sufficient in law to
support the judgment may be reviewed on writ of error, without any
bill of exceptions or certificate of division of opinion:
At common law, a factor has no power to pledge, whether he is intrusted
with the possession of the goods, .or with the bill of lading or other symbol of property.
The statute of Missouri of March 4, 1869, gives no validity to a transfer,
without indorsement in writing, of a bill of lading or warehouse receipt.
The statute of Missouri of MNarch28, 1874, making the ple.dge of goods by
a factor, without the written authority of the owner, a criminal offence,
does not render such a pledge valid as between the owner and the pledgee.
A usage of trade for banks to take pledges from factors, as security for the
payment of the general balance- of account between them, of goods
known to be held by them as factors, is unlawful.
An r-authorizcd pledge by a factor, of goods owned by a partnership of
ANhich he is a member, to secure the payment of his own debt to one who
knows him as a factor only, is invalid against the partnership.
"Attendn que les batiments de commerce entrant dans le port d'une nation autre que celle h laquelle Rs appartienent ne ponrraient 6tre soustraits
dont ce
It lajuridiction terTitoriale, toutes les fois que l'int~rt de l'Itat
port fhit partie se trouve enga-, sans danger pour le bon ordre et la dignitC
du g uvernement;
"Attendu que tout ttat est int~ress6 Ala r6pression des crimes et d~lits
qui pourent tre commis dans les ports de son territoire, non-seulement
par des hommes de l' quipage d'un batiment du commerce Stranger envers
des personues ne faisant pas partie de cet 6quipage, mais m~me par des
homimes de l'6quipage entre eux; soit lorsque le fait est de nature A conipromettre ]a tranquillit6 du port, soit lorsque l'intervention de l'autorit6
locale est r~clam e, soit lorsque le fait constitue un crime de droit commun
que sa gravitC ne permet it aucune nation de laisser inmpuni, sans porter
atteinte at ses droits de souverainet6 juridictionelle et territoriale, parce
que ce crime est par lui-m6me la violation la plus manifeste comme la plus
flagrante des lois que chaque nation est charg6e de faire respecter dans
toutes les parties de son territoire."

ALLEN v. ST. LOUIS BANK.
Statement of Facts.
If a factor, to whom the owner of goods has made a negotiab.le promissory
note and consigned the goods under an agreement between them that
the proceeds of the goods when sold shall be applied to the payment
of the note, indorses the note and pledges the goods to secure the payment of advances made to him by one who knows him to be a factor and
to hold the goods as such, the pledgee is bound to apply the proceeds
of the goods to the payment of the note, and the maker may set up this
obligation in defence of an action by the pledgee on the note.
This court, on reversing a judgment of the Circuit Court for the plaintiff on
a special finding which ascertains all the facts of the case, will order
judgment for the defendant without further trial.

Tn- original action was brought by the St, Louis National
Bank against Augusta B. Allen and her-daughter on la promissory note for $3750, with interest at the rate of ten per cent.
yearly, made by the defendants May 10, 1878, and payable
December 20, 1878, to the order of J. H. Dowell & Co., and
by them indorsed to the plaintiff.
The answer alleged that the plaintiff was bound to apply
in payment of the note the proceeds of certain cotton pledged
to the plaintiff by the payees; and set out the facts attending
the making and indorsement of the note and the pledge of
the cotton, substantially as afterwards found by the court and
stated below, except in the following respects: The answer
alleged that the plaintiff took the note and the cotton with full
notice of the agreement and understanding between the makers
and the payees, and was not a holder of the note in good faith
and for value, but took it as collateral security for preexisting
debts of the payees to the plaintiff. The answer contained no
statement of the general, course of dealing between the payees
and the plaintiff, and no mention of any usage of trade. As a
further defence, the answer alleged that the note had been
paid and satisfied.
The plaintiff filed a replication,' denying all the allegations
of the answer. A jury was duly waived in writing, and the
case was tried by the court, which made this special finding
of facts :
"1st. The promissory note set forth in the petition was
made by the defendants, and delivered by them to J. I.
Dowell for J. I. Dowell & Co., the said J. I. Dowell being

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

the active partner of J. TH Dowell & Co., and as such having
the control and management of their business as cotton factois ;
and such note was so made under the circumstances and for
the purposes hereinafter stated. Said J. H. Dowell procured
said note before its maturity to be discounted by the plaintiff,
who paid to him the amount of said note less the usual discount, and thereupon the said J. IT. Dowell, in the name of
J. IT. Dowell & Co., indorsed and delivered said note to said
plaintiff, by whom it is still held. Said note has not been
paid, unless the facts hereinafter found amount to or operate
as a payment thereof. The amount due on said note with interest to this time, if the plaintiff is entitled to recover thereon,
is the sum of $5377.08. The plaintiff is the bonadfXde holder
of the note sued on, for value, before maturity, without notice
of any of the defences herein claimed, unless notice is to be
implied from the facts hereinafter set forth.
"2d. - At the date of said note and for several years before,
and until March, 1879, J. H. Dowellwas a cotton factor at
St. Louis, Mo.' doing ,business as the active member of J. H.
Dowell & Co., and as such having the control and management of their business as cotton factors,' receiving consignments of cotton for sale on commission from planters and
others, and making advances during the pending season to
their consignors of supplies and cash, to be reimbursed out of
the proceeds of the cotton crops of said consignors when received and sold. Said J. H. Dowell and the defendants were
also partners in the working of a cotton plantation in Clover
Bend, Arkansas, under the firm name and style of Allen &
Dowell; and said J. H. Dowell & Co. of St. Louis acted as
the factors of said Allen & Dowell, receiving the cotton raised
by them each year and disposing of it at St. Louis, and furnishing each season the supplies needed by Allen & Dow6ll
for carrying on the plantation, and charging such advances
to Allen & Dowell in account, and crediting them on said account with the proceeds of the cotton when received and old
or disp6sed of, the accounts being kept with Allen & Dowell
in the same maimer as with other consignors of cotton.
"3d. The note sued on was made and delivered to J. H.

ALLEN v. ST. LOUIS BANK.
Statement of Facts.

Dowell, the active member of the firm aforesaid, under the
name of J. H. Dowell & Co., by the defendants, at or about
its date, at ihe request.of said J. H. Dowell, for the purpose
of being used by him and for his accommodation, to enabla
him to raise funds to furnish the necessary supplies to Allen &
Dowell for operating said plantation during the season of 187I,
and with the understanding between J. H. Dowell and the
defendants (but not with any understanding or knowledge of
the plaintiff) that it should be taken' up and paid by J. H.
Dowell at maturity out of the proceeds of the cotton crop of
Allen & Dowell for that year, when ireceived and sold by
J_ H. Dowell & Co. There was no other or further consideration as between J. H. Dowell and the defendants for the
making of said note. The amount of said note. was credited
by J. H. Dowell for J.H. Dowell & Co. to Allen & Dowell at
its date on account, and at its maturity was charged to Allen
& Dowell on said account as though taken" up aid paid by
J.H. Dowell & Co. But it was not in fact paid or taken up.
The proceeds of the cotton crop of Allen & Dowell for 1878,
consigned to J. H. Dowell & Co., were more than sufficient to
pay and satisfy tho said note, together with all other advances
and charges by J.I. Dowell & Co. to Allen & Dowell, if
such proceeds had been applied to the payment of said note.
The balance in favor of Allen & Dowell on said account was
never paid or settled by J. H. Dowell, and the partnership accounts between the partners composing the firm of Allen &
Dowell have never been adjusted and settled.
"4th. During the year 1878, and until March, 1819, J.H.
Dowell & Co. kept their.bank deposit account with the plaintiff and were very large borrowers of money from said bank.
During the said period the following transactions were had
between J. H. Dowell & Co. and the said bank, concerning all
the cotton consigned to J.H. Dowell & Co., including the
cotton of Allen & Dowell consigned to J. H. Dowell & Co.
The mode of such transactions was as follows: The cotton
being, shipped to J.H. Dowell and Co. by railroad, the bills o'
lading therefor as soon as received'by J.H. Dowell & Co. were
delivered to the bank, which thereupon gave J.H. Dowell &

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

Co. credit in their deposit account for an amount equal in the
aggregate to $40 for each bale, represented by such bill of
lading, taking J. H. Dowell & Co.'s note for said'amount, payable on demand with interest. The amount so credited to J.
i. Dowell & Co.,in their account would be subject to their
check when and so far as th6 balance of account was after such
credit in their favor; but their account was sometimes largely
overdrawn, as was the case with many of the customers or
dealers in St. Louis with the bank. When the cotton represented by such bills of lading arrived in St. Louis, it was delivered by the railroad company transporting it to a cotton warehousing company, which, on receipt thereof, issued therefor
its warehouse receipts, acknowledging the receipt of the cotton
described by number of bales and marks thereof, and undertaking to deliver said cotton to the bearer of the receipts on
demand. Said receipts were then delivered to the bank in
exchange for the bills of lading, which were surrendered and
cancelled.
"It is not shown whether or not the bills of lading or the
warehouse receipts or any of them were indorsed in writing
by J. H. Dowell & Co. or by any one, when transferred to the
bank, there being no evidence on this specific matter.
"The bank knew that the business of J. H. Dowell & Co.
was that of factors, and understood that the cotton represented
by the bills of lading and warehouso receipts, as aforesaid, was
held by J. I. Dowell & Co. as factors, and also knew that
J. Hf. Dowell and the defendants were jointly'interested in owning and operating the plantation in the State of Arkansas.
The bank did not know and made no inquiry as to the ownership of any of the cotton, nor as to the particular dealings of
J. Hll. Dowell & Co. with such owners, nor as to the state of
accounts between them.
"It does not appear that cotton received by J. I. Dowell
& Co. from different consignors was kept distinct or separate
in the transactions above referred to as made with the bhnk,
nor does it appear what particular -transaction included the
cotton of Allen & Dowell or any part of it. During the period
said J. I. Dowell & Co. by J. II. Dowell turned over to the

ALLEN v. ST. LOUIS BANK.
Statement of Facts.

bank, in the manner and for the purposes abdve ,specified, all
the cotton consigned to said firm, including that of Allen &
Dowell.
"5th. The cotton represented by the bills of lading and
warehouse receipts, in the transactions with the bank afore.
said, was sold in the manner following: Sales were negotiated
by J. H. Dowell & Co. by means of samples, and they agreed
with the purchasers as to all the terms of sale, including prices.
When the agreement of sale was thus made, the purchaser
uniformly paid the entire purchase money to the bank, and on
such payment the bank delivered to the purchaser the warehouse receipt held by it, on the presentation of which to the
cotton warehouse the cotton would be delivered. The entire
amount received by the bank for the cotton was credited to J.
H. Dowell & Co. in their deposit account, and at the same
time, and as part of the same transaction, J. H. Dowell & Co.
were required to and did draw and deliver to the bank their
check on the same account for the amount of their demand
notes to the bank, and thereby take up such notes.
"In March, 1879, J. I. Dowell suddenly died, and his estate
proved insolvent. J. H. Dowell & Co.'s account with the bank
was then overdrawn, and they wxere indebted to the bank.
"Tht bank at the time of said Dowell's death held about
1000 balez of cotton through its transactions, as aforesaid, with
J. H. Dowell & Co., some of which were replevied, and some
by the bank sold and the proceeds applied to the payment
pro tanto of the said indebtedness of J. H. Dowell & Co. But
it does not appear, from any testimony in the case; that any
part of the cotton on hand at the time of the death of Dowell
was the Allen & Dowell cotton. All the cotton shipped by
Allen & Dowell to J. H. Dowell & Co. was sold and disposed
of as hereinbefore stated and before the death of J. H. Dowell.
The particular sales, including said cotton of Allen & Dowell,
do not appear. The defendants had no notice of the nonpayment of the note sued on until after Dowelrs death.
"6th.' The borrowing of money from the bank by J. H.
Dowell & Co., the making of notes therefor, and the transactions, as aforesaid, between J, H. Dowell & Co. and the bank

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

concerning the bills of lading and the warehouse receipts and
the final distribution of the cotton and its proceeds, as aforesaid, were all according to the general usage of trade between
banks and cotton factors at St. Louis, Missouri, where the
transactions took place.
"tth. At the time that the note in controversy was made,
another of the same kind was made by and to the same-parties
and as a part of the same transactions, which note was at the
same time discounted by the bank in the same way, and was
at its maturity paid to the bank by J. H. Dowell & Co., and
charged' to Allen & Dowell in account with J. H. Dowell &
Co: against the proceeds of the cotton crop of Allen & Dowell
in 1878."
It was also stated, in the finding of facts, that at the time
of these transactions certain statutes of -Missouriwere in force,
which are copied in the margin.'
1 The statute of March 4, 1869, cQntains the following provisions:

" SECTIOx 1. All receipts issued or given by any warehouseman or other
person or firm, and all bills of lading, transportation receipts and contracts
of affreightment, issued or given by any person, boat, railroad or' transportation or transfer company, for goods, wal'es, merchandise, grain, flour or
other produce, shall be and are hereby made negotiable by written indorsement thereon and delivery in the same manner as bills of exchange and
promissory notes; and no priuteil or written conditions, clauses or provisions, inserted in or attached to any such receipts, bills of lading or contracts, shall in any manner limit the negotiability or affect any negotiations
thereof, nor in any manner impair the rights and duties of the parties
thereto, or persons interested therein; and every such-conditions, clauses
or provisions, purporting to limit or affect the rights, duties or liabilities
created or 'declared in tliis act,.shall be void and of no force or efbect.
"SEC. '2. Warehouse'receipts given by any warehouseman, wharfinger , or
other pqrsonl or firm, for any goods, wares, merchandise, grain, flour, or
other produce or commodity, stored or deposited, and all bills of lading
and transportation receipts of every kind, given by any carrier, boat, vessel,
railrbad, 'transportation or transfer company, may be transferred by indorsement in writing thereon and the delivery thereof so indorsed; and any
and all persons to whon the same may be transferred shall be deemed and
held to be the owner of such goods, wares, merchandise, grain, flour, or
other produce or commodity, so far as to give validity to -any pledge, lien
or transfer, given, made or created thereby, as on the faith thereof; and no
prper'y so stored or de!Ibsite1l, as specifiedI in such bills of lading or :eceipts', shall be: delivered,- excelit on-surrefider and cancellation of such

ALLEN v. ST. LOUIS BANK.
Statement of :Facts.

The Circuit Judge and the District Judge certified that they
were opposed in opinion upon the following questions:
"1st. Whether the transactions between the plaintiff and
J. H. Dowell & Co. concerning the bills of lading, warehouse
receipts, and the sales of cotton, and application of the proceeds, were valid and effectual in favor of the plaintiff and as
against the defendants, at common law.
"2d. Whether said transactions were or not valid in favor
of the plaintiff as against the defendants, by virtue of the statutes of YissourI in respect to bills of lading and warehouse
receipts and thetransfer or negotiability of such instruments,
heretofore set forth.
"3d. Whether such transactions were valid as to the plaintiff against the defendants, by reason of being in conformity to
the'usage and custom of bankers and factors at St. Louis.
receipts and bills of lading; provided, however, that all such receipts and
bills of lading, which shall have the words ' not negotiable ' plainly written
or stamped on the face thereof, shall be exempt from the provisions of this
act." MissourLaws, 1SG9, p. 91.
The statute of March 28, 1874, amends § 12 of the statute of March 10,
1868, so as to read as follows:
"SEcTioN 12. If any commission mercliant, agent or other person storing or shipping any grain, flour, or other produce or commodity, or any
person to whom any such property is consigned, and who shall come in possession of a bill of lading or warehouse receipt for such property, for or on
account of another person or other persons, shall hypothecate, negotiate
or pledge such bill of lading or warehouse receipt, without the written
authority therefor of the owner or consignor of such property; or if, having so disposed of such bill of lading or warehouse receipt, shall fail
to account for and pay over the proceeds thereof forthwith to his principal
or the owner of such property; in either or any of such cases, he shall be
adjudged guilty of fraud, and shall, on conviction, be pufiished by fine not
exceeding five thousand dollars, or by imprisonment in the penitentiary for
a teem not exceeding five years, or by both such fine and imprisonment:
Provided, that nothing herein shall be construed to prevent such consignee
or other person, lawfully possessed of such bill of lading or warehouse
receipt, fr.om pledging the same, to the extent of raising sufficient means
thereby to pay charges for storage and shipment, or advances drawni for
on such property by the owner or consignor thereof; and a draft or order
by such owner or consignor for advances shall be held and taken to be
'written authority,' within the meaning of this section, for the hypothecation of such bill of lading or warehouse receipt, to the extent, and only to
the extent, of raising themeans to meet such draft and to pay such freights
and storage." Missouri Laws, 1874, p. 51.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

"4th. Whether such transactions were valid in favor of the
plaintiff as against the defendants, by reason of the fact that
J. H. Dowell was a partner in.the firm of Allen & Dowell.
"5th. Whether upon the sale of cotton having been finally
made bjr J. H. Dowell & Co., as stated in the findings, J. H..
Dowell & Co. became'debtors only of the consignors of the
cotton, and had the right as to the plaintiff for this borrowed
money out of the proceeds of the sale of such cotton.
"61th. Whether upon the findings the judgment should be
for the plaintiff or for the defendants."
Upon the special finding of facts, and in accordance with
the opinion of the Circuit Judge, judgment was entered, for
the plaintiff in the sum of $5377.08, with interest and costs,
and the d'efendants sued out this writ of error.
JiEr. John _v Rogers, for plaintiffs in error, cited: Gibson
v. Stevens, 8 How. 3841; St. .Louis National Bank v. Ross, 9
Missouri App. 399, 411; Fourath Yational Bank v. St. Louis
Cotton Compress Co., 11 Missouri App. 333; Rice v. Cutler, 17
Wis. 351; TWarner'v. 3artin, 11 How. 209, 224; -3reCombiev.
Davies, 7 East, 5; Atartini v. Coles, I M. & S. 140; Solly v.
Rathbone, 2 M. & S. 298; Cockran v. ITrarna, 2 M. & S. 301;
Uyquha4t v. .iolver, 4 Johns. 103, 116 Gray v. Agnew, 95
II. 315; ,Yewbold v. Vright, 4 Rawle, 195; Rodriguez v.
He]fternan, 5 Johns. Ch.417, 429; 3ferchants' N ational Bank
v. Trenholn, 12 Heiskell, 520; -aufman v..Beasley, 54 Texas,
5,63; Benny v. Rhodes, 18 Missouri, 14 7; X . 59 Am. Dec.
293; Benny v. Pegram, 18 Missouri, 191; S. C 59 Am.
, Co. v. Given, 65 Missouri, 89;
Dec. 298; -Weeler & WFTsoi
Queiroz v. Trueman, 3 B. & C. 342; Graham v. Dyster,
2 Starkie, 21; D'Aubigny v. Duval, 5 T. R. 604; Bariza(1 v. Kellogg, 10 Wall. 383, 390; OeIrichs v. _Fod,23 How.
49, 63; Savings Bank v. rw'rd, 100 U. S. 195, 06; Thornypson v. Riggs, 5 Wall. 663, 679; Vational Ba)k v. Burkhardt,
100 U. S. 686, 692; Lehman v. 31larshall, 47 Ala. 362;
Rogers v. Batchelor, 12 Pet. 221; Dob v. Halsey, 16 Johns.
34; S. C. 8 Am. Dec. 293; Snaith v. Burridge, 4 Taunt.
634; Breu,.sr v. lfoft, 4 Scammon, 378 ; Kelley v. Greenleaf,3

ALLEN v. ST. LOUIS BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

Story, 93; Steiger v. Thied .IationalBank, 2 MeCrary, 494;
S. '. 6 Fed. Rep. 569; Shaw v. Railroad Co., 101 U. S. 557;
2n ith v. Sac County, 11 Wall. 139; Greenbaum v. ifegibben,
10 Bush, 419; First 2Xational Bank v. Boyce, 78 Kentucky,
42; Zrie & Pacyc Dipath v. St. Louis Cotton Conpress
Co., 6 Missouri App. 172; Whitlock v. flay, 58 N. Y. 484:
io.u/,ance Co. v. Kiger, 103 U. S. 352; Price v. ns. Co., 43
Wis. 267; Stevens v. Wilson, 6 1Hill, 512; S. C. in error, 3
Denio, 472; Covell v. Hill, 6 N. Y. 374, 380; ca4twright v.
Tiberding, 24 N. Y. 521, 534; Howland v. WVoodruff, 60
N. Y. 73, 79-80.
31r. Tames Hagerman for defendant in error, (Yr. Frank
H7agerman was with him on the brief,) cited : -KingstonBank
v. Gay, 19 Barb. 459; -Roadh v.
.urk,
9 Heiskell, 708; -4fcCombie v. .Davies, 6 East, 538; Laussatt v. Lippincott, 6 S.
& R. 386; S. C. 9 Am. Dec. 440; Boric v. 2apier,1 McCord,
1; Foley v. Hill, 2 H. L. Cas. 28; Etna . at. Bank v. Fourth
IVIal. Bank, 46 iN. Y. 82; Boyden v. Bank of Cape Fear,
65 No. Car. 13; Allen v. Fourth. .tat. Bank, 37 'N. Y. Superior (5 Jones &' Spencer), 137; Buchanan Farm, Oil Co.
v. Woo Jman, 1 Run, 639; In re Franklin Bank, 1 Paige,
249; S. C. 19 Arm Dee. 413; Phenix Bank v. Risley, 11
U. S. 125; 1iornpson v. Riggs, 5 Wall. 663, 678; .arine Bank
v. Fulton Bank, 2 Wall. 252; Bank of Republic v. _Xfillard,
10 Wall. 152; Clark v. Xoody, 17 Mass. 145, 147; Ifartini v.,
Cole8, 1 M. & S. 140; S'ipley v.i ymer, 1 M. & S. 484; E vans
v. Pollen, 2 Gallison, 13; Kingston v. Wilson, 1 Wash. C. C.
310; Stewart v. Aberdein, 4 M. & W. 211; Catterallv. Kindle,
L. R. 2 C. P. 368; Sweeting v. Pearce, 9 0. B. N. S. 534;
J-iNeilv. Tenth J"VationalBank, 46 N. Y. 325; ifoore t. X[etropolitan Bank, 55 N. Y. 41; Weirick v. _fakaning Bank, 16
Ohio St. 296; Oomdes v. Chandler, 33 Ohio St. 178; Winter v.
Belmnont Xining Co., 53 Cal. 428; Price v. Wisconsin 3lar-ine
& Fire Ins. Co., 43 Wis. 267-269; Henry v. philadelp/ia
Warehouse Co., 81 Penn. St. 76; Pegrarn v.VCarson, 10 Bosworth, 505; Howland v. Wfoodrzqf, 60 N. Y. 73; Locke v.
Lewis, 124 Mass. 1; InternationalBank v. Gernan&
Bank, 71

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

Missouri, 183; Tlty v. _Freedmanzs Savings Co., 93 U. S. 321;
Goodenow v. Tyler, 7 Mass. 36; S. C. 5 Am. Dec. 22.
Mn. JUSTICE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

When a jury is waived in writing, and the case tried by
the court, the court's finding of facts, whether general or
special, has the saiie effect as the verdict of a jury; and
although a bill of exceptions is the only way of presenting
rulings made in the progress of the trial, the question whether
the facts set forth in a special finding of the court, which is
equivalent to a special verdict, are sufficient in law to support
the judgment, may be reviewed on writ of error without any
bill of exceptions. Act of Marcl. 3, 1865,"c. 86, § 4, 13 Stat.
501; IRev. Stat. §§ 649, 700; French v. Edlwards, 21 Wall.
147; Ex _pa te French, 91 U. S. 423. The question whether
the facts found by the court inf the case at bar .are sufficient
to support the judgment below includes the several questions
of law affecting the merits of the case. That .judgment is
for more than $5000, which is sufficient to give this court jurisdiction in error. Act of February 16, 1875, c. 77, § 3, 18
Stat. 316. It is therefore unnecessary to consider whether
those questions are duly stated in the cerificate of division of
opinion,' within the rule affirmed in Tfilliargport Bank v.
.Enapp, 119 U, S. 357.
The leading facts of the case, as found by the Circuit Court,
are as follows:
The original action was on a promissory note mads by the
defendants, payable to the order of J. H. Dowell & Co., and
by them indorsed to. the plaintiff btnk. J. H. Dowell &
Co. were a partnership of cotton factors at St. Louis, in which
Dowell was the active and managing partner. *Dowell was
also a partner with the defendants, under the name of Allen
& Dowell, in the working of a cotton plantation in Arkansas.
The note in suit was made and delivered by the -defendants
to the payees, their factors, to enable them to raise funds to
furnish supplies for working that plantation, and under. an
agreement between the parties that the note should be taken

ALLEN v. ST. LOUIS BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

up and paid by the factors out of the p~roceeds of the cotton
crop of the plantation for the coming season, when received
and sold by them. That crop was consigned to the factors
under that agreement, and its proceeds were more than sufficient to pay this note and all other charges of the factors. It
is not doubted that upon these facts the makers would have
a complete defence to the note in the hands of the payees.
But before the maturity of the note, the payees had it discounted by, and indorsed and delivered it to, the plaintiff
bank, with which they kept their deposit accQunt, and of which
they from time to time borrowed large sums of money. As
soon as they received the bills of lading'of cotton consigned
to them as factors by the defendants or by other persons, they
delivered those bills to the bank, which thereupon gave them
a credit, in their deposit account,. of $40 for each bale, and
took their note for the amount, payable on demand, with
interest. On the arrival of the cotton, it was delivered to
warehousemen, who gave receipts undertaking to deliver it
to bearer, and these receipts were delivered to the bank in
exchange for the bills of lading, which were surrendered and
cancelled. There'was no evidence.that either the bills of lading or the warehouse receipts were indorsed in writing. The
bank knew that the payees of the note in suit were factors,
and that they held the cotton as such. It did not know and
made no inquiry as to the ownership of any of the cotton, or
the dealings of the factors with the owners, or the state of
accounts between them.
The cottoi was sold in the following manner: The factors
negotiated sa~es by means of samples, and fixed the price and
other terms of sale. The bank received the whole price from
the purchasers, and delivered to them the warehouse receipts,
and credited the factors with the amount received, but at the
same time, and as part of the same transaction, required them
to draw, and they did draw. and deliver to the bank, their
checks for the amount of their demand notes held by the
bank. After all the cotton had been sold, there was a large
balance of account due from the fact6rs to the bank.
The substance of the transaction between the factors and

32

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

the bank in regard to the cotton was, that the fa6tors delivered the bills of lading and warehouse receipts to-. the bank to
secure the repayment of money lent them by the bank, and
.thereby made a pledge of the cotton, to secure their own debt;
In.uranee Co. v.Ziger, 103 U. S. '52, 356; and that the bank
sold, on terms negotiated by the factors, the cotton so pledged
to it, and received the price from the purchasers. The notes
and checks which passed between the factors .and the bank
were but forms to carry out the main purpose of the transaction between them, and did not change its nature or effect.
By the common law, a factor or agent for sale has no power
to pledge, whether the owner has intrusted him with the possession of the goods themselves, or with the symbol of them,
as by consigning them to him by a bill of lading in which he is
consignee or indorsee. 2 Kent Com. 625; Yinder v. 7 aw,
2 Mass. 398; Wtarner v. 3fartin, 11 How. 209, 224; PRillNTs
v. Huth, 6 M. & W. 572, 596; Co7e v. N'orthtwestern- Bank, L.
R. 10 C. P. 354, 363. And such was the law of Missouri
before the passage of any statute upon the subject. Benny v.
iodes, 18 Missouri, 147; S. C.59 Am. Dec. 293; Benny v.
Pegram,18 Missouri, 191; S. C 59 An. -Dec. 298.
The essential difference between a power to sell and a power
to pledge is well brought out in a recent ase in the House of
Lords by Lord Chancellor Selborne, who said: "It is manifest
that when a man is dealing with other people's goods, the difference between an authority to sell, and an authority to mortgage or pledge, is one which may go to the root of all the
motives and purposes of the transaction. The object of, a
person who has goods to sell is to turn them into money; but
when those goods are deposited by way of security for money
borrowed, it is a transaction of a totally different character.
If the owner of the goods does not get the money, his object
and purpose are simply defeated; and if, on the other hand,
he does get the money, a different object and different purpose
are substituted for the first, namely, that of borrowing money
and contracting the relation of debtor with a creditor, while
retaining a redeemable title to the goods, instead of exchanging the title to the goods for a title, unaccompanied by any

ALLEN v. ST. LOUIS BANK.
Opiulon of the Court.

indebtedness, to their full equivalent in money." City Bank
v. Bar'row, 5 App. Cas. 664, 670.
The weight and bearing of the cases, cited at the bar, upon
the construction of the statutes of Iissouri annexed to the
finding of facts, cannot be properly appreciated without keeping in mind the provisions of the various statutes under which
those cases arose.
The English Factors' Act of 6 Geo. 4, c. 94, passed in 1825,
enacted in § 2 that any person intrusted with and in possession
of any bill of lading, warehouse receipt or other like document,
should be deemed and taken to be the true owner of the goods
described therein, so far as 'to give validity to any contract
made by him with other persons for the sale or disposition of
the goods, or for the deposit or pledge thereof as a; security for
advances made by them '"upon tho faith of such several documents or either of them;" provided such persons had no notice,
I)y such documents or otherwise, that the person intrusted as
aforesaid was not the actual and obona.Rfde owner of the goods.
The New York Factors' Act of 1830, c. 179, based upon the
afct of 6 Geo. 4, provided in § 3 that every factor or other
agent, intrusted with the possession of any bill of lading,
custom-house permit or warehouse-keeper's receipt for the
delivery of merchandise, and every such factor or agent, not
having the documentary evidence of title, but intrusted with
the possession of any merchandise for the purpose of sale, or
as a security for any advances to be made or obtained thereon,
should be deemed to be the true owner thereof, so far as to
give validity to any contract made by him with any other
person for tho sale or disposition of the merchandise, for any
advances made by such other person "upon the faith thereof."
It will be observed that this section did not in terms repeat
the proviso of the corresponding section of the English act.
But before the enactment in Missouri of any jof the statutes
cited in argument, the construction of this section of the New
York statute had been settled, by decisions of the highest
courts of that state and of this court, to be that the words
"on the faith thereof" were not to be' referred to "merchandise," or to its symbols, but to the words "shall be deemed to
VOL. CXx-3

OCTOBER TERiI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

be the true owner thereof."

In the leading case, Mr. Justice

Bronson, speaking for Chief Justice Nelson, Mr. Justice
Beardsley and himself, said: "The obvious meaning is, that
the factor or other agent who has been intrusted with certain
documentary evidence of title, or with the possession and
ostensible ownership of the property, shall be deemed the
true owner, so far as may be necessary to protect those who
have dealt with him - upon the faith thereof;' that is, upon
the faith, induced by tihe usual indicia of title, that he was
the true owner of the property. The second section of the
British statute, which answers very nearly to the third section
of oar own, contains a proviso which expressly saies the
rights of the true ow-ner where the pledgee had notice that he
was dealing with an agent; and our statute, though framed in
a different manner, was eVidently* designed to prod-ace the
same result. ft is -impossible to suppose that the legislature
intended to enable the factor to commit a fraud upon his pincipal, by pledging or obtaining advances upon the goods. for
his own purposes, when the pledgee or person making the advances knew that he was not dealing with the true owner."
Steve&, v. Milsom (1844), 6 Hill, 512, 514; S'.
C., in Court of
Errors (1846), 3 Denio, 472; JVa'ner v. Jfrtimn (1850), 11
ow 209, 928; Covell v. Hill (1852), 6 N. Y. 374, 380; Cartw2rigit v.
ilmercing (1862), 24 N. Y. 521, 534; 'Dows v.
Greene (1862), 24 N. Y. 638, 64.
See also THwland v. 7ToocZuff (1875), 60 'N. Y. 73, 79, 80; First ff'ational Bank v.
Silaw (1874), 61 N. Y. 283, 301.
If the legislature of Missouri had adopted the words of that
provision of the New York Factors' Act, the meaning of
which had been' thus settled on full consideration by the
highest courts of that state and by this court, there would be
the strongest ground for holding, in accordance with a familiar canon of construction, that it had enacted- those words
with that meaning. Cateacrt v. Robinson, 5 Pet. 264, 280;
JeDonald v. Hovey, 110 U. S. 619, 628; Commohwealt]i v.
]Hfartnett, 3 Gray, 450; Scruggs v. Blair,44 Mississippi, 406;
Wesvesner v. Zann, 39 Wisconsin, 188, 205.
But the statute of Missouri c-' March 4, 1869, differs widely,

ALLEN v. ST. LOUIS BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

in language and in purpose, from the New York Factors' Act
of 1830, and was apparently derived, through §§ 6 and 9 -of
the Missouri statute of March 10, 1868, from the statute of
New York of 1858, c. 326, entitled "AAn act to prevent the
issue of false receipts, and to prevent fraudulent transfers of
property, by warehousemen, wharfingers and others," as
amended by the statute of that state of 1859, c. a53, extending its provisions to bills of lading. None of these provisions
of the Missouri statutes are limited or even addressed to factors or other agents authorized to sell the goods of their prin,
cipals, and intrusted for that purpose with the possession
either of the goods, or of warehouse receipts bills of lading
or other similar 'documents in which such agents are named
as consignees. But their leading object is to regulate the
manner and effect of transferring warehouse receipts and bills
of lading by indorsement.
By § 6 of the statute of Missouri of 1868, (following almost
word for word the statutes of New York of 1858, c. 326, .§ 6,
and 1859, c. 353,) it was enacted that warehouse receipts or
bills of lading "may be transferred by indorsement thereon,
and any person to whom the same may be transferred shall be
deemed aiid taken to be the owner of the goods, wares, merchandise, grain, flour, or other produce or commodity, therein
specified, so far as to give validity to any pledge, lien, or
transfer made or created by such person or persons," that is,
.by the indorsee before mentioned; and by § 9, warehouse
receipts and bills. of lading were made "negotible by indorsement in blank, or by special indorsement, in the same
manner and to the same extent as bills of exchange and promissory notes." Missouri Laws, 1868, pp. 12, 13.
By g 3 of the statute of 1869, those sections of the. statute
of 1868 are repealed. But § 1 of the later statute substantially reenacts § 9 of the earlier one, substituting for the'
words "by indorsement in blank or by special indorsement,"
the words "by written indorsement thereon and delivery,"
and omitting the words "and to the same extent;" and § 2
reenacts § 6, with the substitution, for the words "by indorsement thereon," of the words "by indorsement in writ-

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.-

ing thereon and the delivery thereof so indorsed," and, for
the words "by such parson or persons," of the words "thereby,
as on the faith thereof." Missouri Laws, 1869, p. 91.
The principal provisions of the statute of 1869, then, as to
all warehouse receipts and bills of lading, (except those which
have the words "n1& negotiable" plainly written or stamped
upon their face,) are, first, that they are "made negotiable by
written indorsement thereon and delivery in the same manner
as bills of exchange and promissory notes;" and, second, that
any person "to whom the same may be. transferred shall be
deemed and held to be the owner of the goods," "so far as to
give validity to any pledge, lien or transfer, given, made or
created thereby, as on the faith thereof."
The first provision, while it doubtless gives the indorsee the
right to sue thereon in his own name, does not, for the reasons
fully stated by Mr. Justice Strong in delivering the judgment
of this court in Shaw v. Ra'ilroacl Co., 101 U. S. 557, attach
to such an indorsement of. the symbol of property the same
effect which the common law gives to the indorsement of a
bill of exchange or promissory note for the payment of a sum.
of .money; nor confer upon persons making, upon a bill of
lading indorsed in blank by the dwner, an advance of money
to a subsequent indorser whom they have reason to believe
not to be the owner, the right to hold the goods against the
true owner.
The second provision does not appear to have been brought
to the notice of this court in that case, and presents more difficulty.. It differs from the provision of the Factors' Act of
New York, construed by the courts of that state and by
this court in the cases before cited, in several important particulars: 1st. Any person "to whom the same may be, tran'.
farred" (instead of any person by whom it is transferred)
" shall be deemed and held to be the owner." 2d. The ensuing qualification is, "so far as to give validity to any pledge,
lien or transfer,- given, made or created thereby," which last
word cannot possibly be ieferred to anything but the transfer
aforesaid. 3d. The words "as on the faith thereof" follow
directly afterwards, without any intermediate mention of ad-

ALLEN v. ST. LOUIS BANK.

37

Opiniod of the Court.

vances made by the transferee. In short, the New York Factors' Act declares that any agent intrusted with the possession
of goods, or of the symbol thereof, shall be deemed to be the
true owner, so far as to give validityt o a pledge made by him
to another person for advances made by the latter "on the
faith thereof;" but the Missouri statute-ofly declares that an
indorsee of the symbol of property shall be deemed to be the
owner, so far as to give validity to any pledge made to him
by such indorsement. "as on the faith thereof." The difficulty arises from the introduction of the words "on the faith
thereof," borrowed from the factors'- acfs, into a statute relatingto the negotiability of warehouse receipts and bills of lading, without sufficient regard to the difference in the terms
and the objects of the two classes of statutes.
It may well be that, upoli a view of the whole provision, it
protects only bona fide indorsees. TFitlok v. HTay, 58 N. Y.
484, 487; Steiger v. Third .ational Bantk,,2 cOrary, 494-,
498. But it is by no ileans clear that the mere fact that the
indorsee of the bill of lading.or warehouse receipt knows that
the indorser is .a factor and holds.the goods as such is sufficient proof of bad faith. Under the English Factors' Act of
5 & 6 Vict. c. 39,. extending the provisions of the act of 6 Geo.
4, and protecting, those advances only, which are "made boiw
jfde and without notice that the agent making" the pledge
"has not authority to mdke the same, or is acting mala fXde
in respect thereof against the owner" of the goods, it has b een
held by the highest authorities that knowledge that the agent
making the pledge is a factor, without further notice that he
is acting mala j)e and beyond his autthority, does not deprive
the pledgee of the :protection of the statute. -Vave1awv.
Brownrigg, 1 Sim. N. S. 573, and. 2 D., M. & G. 441; Vickers
v. Hertz, L. R. 2 H. L. Sc. 113; KYalteniach v. lewie, 10 App.
Cas. 617. Yet it may be doubted, whether receiving, from
persons known to be factors and to hold property as such, a
pledge of the symbols of the property, to secure the payment
of the general balance of their bank account with the pledgee,
is consistent with good faith.
We have considered the question of the effect of the words

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

"on the faith thereof," as used in Missouri and elsewhere, at
some-length, because of the large space devoted to it in the arguments-qf counsel, and in order to put the whole matter in a
clearer light. But it is not necessary to express a decisive
opinion upon the meaning of those words, as they stand in the
Missouri statute of 1869, because upon a narrower ground'it
is quite clear that that statute affords no protection to the
plaintiff.
That statute applies only to transfers .of warehouse receiptsand bills of lading by "indorsement in writing thereon and
the delivery thereof so indorsed." The finding of facts contains this*statement: "It is not shown whether or not the
bills of lading or the warehouse receipts or any of them were
indorsed in writing by J. II. Dowell & Co. or by any one,
when transferred to the bank, there being no evidence on this
specific matter." The want of any evidence upon this point
is perhaps to be -explained by the facts, also found and stated,
that upon the delivery of the warehouse receipts to the bank
the bills of lading were surrendere4-und cancelled, and that
the warehouse receipts ran to bearer, and were therefore probably not indorsed. But whatever be the explanation, the fact
remains, that it was not proved, and cannot be-presumed, that
either the bills of lading or the warehouse receipts were indorsed in writing, as required by the statute; and no better
title passes by a transfer of the symbols without such indorsement than by a delivery of the' goods which they represent.
Rice v. Cutler, 17 Wisconsin, 351,358, 359; Hirschornv. Canney, 98 Mass. 149; Eie & Pavi'c Dispatch Co. v. St. Iouis
Co., 6 Missouri App. 172 ; Fourth Yational Bank v. St. -fLouis
Co., 11 Missouri App. 333.
The decision in Price v. WVisconsin Ins. Co., 43 Wisconsin,
267, on which the plaintiff much relied, was based both upon
a warehouse: receipt act differing from that of Missouri in
_allowing the documents to be transferred "by delivery, with
or without indorsement," and in not containing the words "as
on the faith thereof;" and also upon other grounds inconsistent with the judgments of this court in Warner v. Aartin,
and Shaw v. Railroad Co., before cited.

ALLEN v. ST. LOUIS BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

The statute of Missouri of March 28, 1874, affixing a heavy
penalty to the negotiation or pledge of bills of lading or warehouse receipts by an agent, or consignee, without the written
authority of the owner or qonsignor, does not change, the law
as to the validity of the transfer as. between individuals. A
transfer by -an agent, that before was valid as between his
principal and his transferee, is not invalidated by the statute.
Gardnerv. Gager, 1 Allen, 502. And with even stronger reason
a transfer that was wholly invalid before is not rendered valid
,by being made a criminal offence. The proviso that any consignee or agent, lawfully possessed of abill of lading or warehouse receipt, may pledge it to the extent of raising sufficient
means to pay charges for storage or shipment, or for advances
drawn for by the owner or consignor, has no application to
this case; because this pledge wds not made for either of those
purposes, but to secure the. factors' own debt to the pledgee.
Factors having no Po-!er, by the law of Missouri, to make
a pledge of the goods of their principals by a transfer, without
indorsement in writing, of .the bills of lading or warehouse receipts, the finding of the Circuit Court, that the transactions
between the factors and the plaintiff "were all according to
the general usage of trade between banks and cotton factors at
St. Louis," cannbt aid the plaintiff; because the usage attempted to be set up was-nof shown to have been known to
the defendants or to other owners of cotton; and because it
was" contrary to law, in that it undertook to alter*the nature
of the contract between the factors and their principals, which
authorizes them to sell, but not to pledg and in that it would
sustain a pledge by %factor of the goods of several principals
to secure the payment of his own general balance of account
to a third person. Barnard v. _ellogg, 10 Wall. 383; Irwin
v. TWilliar, 110 U. S. 499 ; Arewbold v. T[right, 4 Rawle, 195 ;,
Lehman v. 2Jfarshall,47 Alabama., 362; Ieuckart v. Cooper, 3
Bing. N. C. 99; S. C. 3 Scott, 521; and 2 Hodges, 150; Rzobin,
son v. _lollett, 1. R. 7 H. L. 802.
Nor is the further fact found, that Dowell, the active member of the firm of* 5. H. Dowell & Co., the factors, *as also a
partner with the defendants in the working of the plantation,

1

40

OCTOBER TERMA,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

at all material; because he had not been held out by the defendants as the owner of the property, or as authorized by
them to dispose of it otherwise than as a factor, and was not
understood by the plaintiff to be acting in any other capacity.
.Rogers v. Batolelor, 12 Pet. 221 ; Locke v. Lewis, 124 Mass. 1.
Although the general relation of a bank to its depositor is
that of debtor and creditor, yet when, as in this case, a factor,
holding property in trust for his principal, transfers it to a bank
which has notice of the capacity in which he holds it, the principal may assert his right in the property against the bank, either
by independent suit, or by way of defence to an action by the
bank against him. The defendants in this case were therefore
entitled to have the proceeds of their property, so received by
the plaintiff, applied to the payment of the note in suit. IYational Bank v. Insurance Co., 104 U. S. 54; Baker v. iVw
o"AYir Bank; 100 N. Y. 31; St. Iouis Bank, v. Ross, 9 Missouri
App. 399. As those proceeds are fouid to have been more
than sufficient to pay and satisfy this note and all other charges
of the factors against the defendants, the plaintiff cannot maintain this action.
All the facts of the case being ascertained by the special
finding of the cout below, as they would be by the special
verdict of a jury, there is no reason for awarding a new trial,
but there must be a general, judgment for the defendants.
FortScott v. Hickman, 112 U. S. 150.
Judgment reversed, and case remanded to the Circuit Court,
with di'rections to enter judgment for the original defendantt.

