OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Counsel for Plaintiffs in Error.

the same effect. In the present ease the action is -not on the
decree, but on the appeal bond, and for the recovery of damages arising from the breach, as to which matters inpais,such

as payment or accord and satisfaction, were always a good
plea.
Judgment affikred.
MEYERS v. BLOCK.

MEYERS v. LEVI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COU'RT OF LOUISIANA.
.Argued December 15, 16, 1886.-Decided January 31, 1887.

An injunction bond in an action in the District Court of the United States
for the District of Louisiana conditioned that the obligors "will well and
truly-pay the" obligee, "defendant in said injunction, all such damages as
he may recover against us in case it should be decided that the said writ
of injunction was wrongfully issued," which bond was made under an
order of court, "that the injunction be maintained on the complaining
creditors giving bond and security to save the parties harmless from the
effects of said injunction" is a sufficient compliance with the order of
the court, and when construed with reference to the rule prevailing in
the Federal courts (contrary to that prevailing in the state courts of
Louisiana), that without a bond and in the absence of malice no damages
can be recovered in such case, means that the obligors will pay such
damages as the obligee may recover against them in a suit on the bond
itself, whether iucurred before or after the giving of the bond.
.Bein v. Heath, 12 How. 168, distinguished

TnEsE were actions at law in a state court of Louisiana
against the obligors on an injunction bond given in an action
brought in the District Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana. Judgments for plaintiff, which were
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the state on appeal.
Defendants sued out these writs of error. The facts which
make the Federal question are stated in the opinion of the
court.

)Jfr. John -. Kennard,for plaintiffs in error. -Mr.Tillian
Wirt Howe was with him on the brief.

MEYERS v. BLOCK.
Opinion of the Court.

Xi.

Gus. A. Breaux for defendants in error.

Mm. JusTcn

BgATY delivered the opinion of the court.

These are suits on injunction bonds given by the plaintiffs
in error to the defendants in error respectively, Friedlander
being a surety.
On the 20th of January, 1874, Meyers & Levi, Lehman,
Godchaux & Co., and Michael Frank fied a petition in the
District Court of the United States for the District of Louisiana
to have their alleged debtors, Block Brothers, a firm composed
of Simon and Joseph Block, declared bankrupts; and the petition charged, amongst other things, that the alleged bankrupts
bad, on the 9th of January preceding, sold a certain store of
goods, situated at Opelousas, to Solomon Isaacs, thbir brotherin4aw, with intent to defraud their creditors. At, or immediately after, the filing of the petition in bankruptcy, the
petitioning creditors filed a special petition for an injunction to
prevent Isaacs from disposing of the store or its contents. A
similar petition was filed against David Block, a brother of
the members of the firm of Block Brothers, alleging that the
bankrupts had sold to him another store of goods at Opelousas with intent to defraud their creditors. Writs of arrest and
provisional seizure were issued against the bankrupts, and
injunctions against Solomon Isaacs and David Block, in accordance with the prayers of the several petitions. Applications were immediately made by the parties to set these
proceedings aside, and such a showing was presented to the
District Court that on the 31st of January the following order
was made, to wit:
"The rules to set aside the arrest, provisional seizure and
injunction came up,
when, after hearing the pleadings, evidence and arguments, it is ordered by the court that
the writs of arrest and provisional seizure be set aside, but
that the injunction be maintained on the complaiig creditors
giving bond and security to save the parties harml ss from the
effects of said injunction in such sum as will be 4xed by the
court upon ascertaining the value of the property, , nd to that

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

end the parties shall take their evidence before Register
Kellogg."
Evidence having been. taken under this order, the court, on
the 7th of February, 1874, made the following order, to wit:
"After hearing cbunsel on both sides, it is orderbd by the
court that the complaining creditors do give bond and security
in the sum of $5000 in favor of Solomon Isaacs, and another
bond in the sum of $1500 in favor of David Block, to save the
parties harmless from the effects of the injunction issued ia
this cause."
Bonds were accordingly given in pursuance of these orders,
and the injunctions were retained. Motions to dissolve them,
however, were pressed, and after a large amount of evidence
had been taken and laid before the court, they were dissolved
on the meits on the 18th and 20th of Marah, 1874.
The bonds referred to were executed for the respective penalties required, but the conditions did not follow the precise
terms of the orders. The bond given to Isaacs (with which
that given to Block corresponded) was in the following words,
to wit:
"Know all men by these presents that we, Meyers & Levi,
Meyer Weill, Michael Frank, and Samuel Friedlander, are held
and firmly bound, jointly and severally, unto Solomon Isaacs
in the stun of five thousand dollars, lawful money of the United
States of America, to be paid to the said Solomon, &c. Dated
19th. February, 1874.
"Whereas the said Meyers & Levi, Meyer Weill, and Michael
Frank have pre.sented a petition to the honorable .the District
Court of the United States for the District of Louisiana, praying for a writ of injunction against the said Solomon Isaacs:
Now, the condition of the above obligation is, that we, the
above bounden Meyers & Levi, Meyer Weill, and Michael
Frank, and
, will well and truly pay to the said Solomon Isaacs, the defendant in said injunction, all such damages
as he may recover against us in case it should be decided that
the said writ of injunction was wrongfully issued."
(Signed)
"MEYER WEILL, M. FRANK. LEitMfAxN, GoDCAUX
& Co., MEYERS & Liwi, SA'L

FRIEDLANTDER."

MEYERS v. BLOCK.
Opinion of the'Court.

In January, 1875, suits were brought on these bonds by
Solomon Isaacs and Davifd' Block, respectively, in the Sixth
District Court for the parish of Orleans, to recover the damages sustained by reason of the injunctions, and on the 30th
day of MNarch, 1876, judgment was rendered in favor of Isaacs
for the sum of $3250, with interest from judicial demand, and
costs; and on the 22d of November, 1877, judgment was rendered in favor of Block for $1500, (the whole penalty of tbe
bond,) with interest and c6sts.
These judgments were severally appealed to the Supre ae
Court of Louisiana, and, after much consideration, were iffirmed. The cases are now here on-writs of error to the latter
court; and the same errors are assigned in both cases, namely:
ir.t. The Supreme Court of Louisiana erred in subjecting
the plaintiffs in error td the law and jurisprudence of Louisiana,
when they were parties to an injunction bond given in equity
in and by order of the Federal court.
Second. The Supreme Court of Louisiana erred in holding
that the bond was regular.
TAlrd. The Supreme Court of Louisiana erred in holding
that an action could be maintained on the bond in suit before
its condition was broken.
Fourth. The Supreme Court of Louisiana erred in holding
that the bond in suit, construed with the order requiring it,
could cover and bind the obligors.for damages which had been
sustained before it was given.
For supporting the first three assignments of error, reliance
is mainly placed on the ease 'of Bein, v. lUeath, 12 How. 168.
There an injunction had been obtained in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana to suspend proceedings of seizure and sale under a mortgage, and to
obtain the injunction the complainants were required, by order
of the court, to give bond, with sureties, to answer all damages which the defendant might sustain'in consequence of said
injunction being granted, should the same be thereafter dissolved. The bond given was conditioned that the principal
and sureties would pay to the defendant in the injunction (the
plaintiff in the case of seizure and sale) all such damages as
voL. CXX-14

OCTOBER" TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

she might recover against them in case' it should be decided
that the said injunction was unlawfully obtained; being in
nearly the same form as the, bonds now in controversy. The
case proceeded to hearing, and a decree was made establishing
the mortgage and dissolving the injunction, which decree was
affirmed on appeal to this court. The mortgage debt was over
$11,000, begides interest and costs. The property mortgaged
-was sold for $7000. Suit was then brought, in the same court,
on the injunction bond, the plaintiff claiming not only damages for expense and delay, but ten per cent. per annum on
the amount of the debt. The cause was tried by the court
without a jury. On the trial, the court allowed the plaintiff,
in proof of damages sustained, to give evidence of counsel fees
and other expenses incurred by the plaintiff before the injunction whs issued, and of the value of lawyers' services in: this
.court not paid for, and of the amount of the rents and profits
of the mortgaged premises pending the suit; to all of which
exceptions were 'taken; and judgment was rendered for the
penalty of the bond, the court being of opinion that the damages from the injunction were greater than that amount.
This court, on writ of error brought, reversed the judgment,
Chief, Justice Taney delivering the opinion. The bond was
regarded by this court as a departure from the order requiring
it, and as being in effect equivalent to an injunction bond
given to suspend seizure and sale under the Louisiana practice,
which operates as a security for the debt, as well as the damages arising from the injunction, the same as a recognizance
in error in the English practice. Such a bond requires a recovery against the parties before the condition is broken; that
is, a judgment for the debt in suit. This the court considered
as entirely different from the bond required by a court of
equity as a condition of granting an injunction, and different
from the bond required by the order of the court in that case.
"In proceeding upon such a bond," said the Chief Justice,
"the court would have no authority to apply to it the legislative provisions of the state. The obligors would be answerable for any damage or cost which the adverse party sustained
by reason of the injunction from the time it was issued until

MEYERS v. BLOCK.
Opinion of the Court.

it was dissolved; but to nothing moro. They would certainly
not be-liable for any aggravated interest on the debt, nor for
the debt itself, unless it was lost by the delay, nor for the fees
paid to the counsel for conducting the suit." The Chief Justice also referred to the fact that no recovery had been had
against the parties - nothing but a seizure and sale of the
mortgaged premises-and a dissoltion of the injunction;,
and, therefore, as the court construed the bond, the contingency 'on which the obligors agreed to pay had not happened,
and the condition of the bond was not broken. Under the
construction given to the bond in that case, the court could
not well do otherwise than reverse the judgment of the Circuit Court.
But, according to our view, the bonds sued on in the cases
before us do not demand any such construction. It is plain
that they could not be intended as security for any debtb or
demand in litigation, but as security only for the damagesthat might be sustained by the issuing of the injunctions. The*
condition is to pay "all such damages as he [Isaacs, in the one
case, and Block, in the other] may recover against us in case
it should be decided that the said writ of injunction was wrongfully issued." Recover, how? By the law of Louisiana damages may be recovered for suing out an injunction without
just cause, independently of a bond. 3 La. 291. But this cannot be done in the United States courts. Without a bond nodamages can be recovered at all. Without a bond for the
payment of damages or other obligation of like effect, a party
against whom an injunction wrongfully issues can recover
nothing but costs, unless he can make out a case of malicious
prosecution. It is only by reason of the bond, and upon the
bond, that he can recover anything. When, therefore, the
condition of the bond in these cases declares that the obligors
will pay such damages as the obligee may recover against
them, it must mean that they will pay such damages as he
may recover by a suit on the bond itself. Otherwise it is
senseless and vain. Construed in this way, it is in strict conformity with the order which required it. It is in this way'
that the bonds in question were finally construed by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

Sdpreme Court of Louisiana, and-we think that its construction wa. right. In its opinion in the Block case the court says:
"Under our constrtuction we find no difference in the obligation of parties 'to save David Block harmless from the effects
of. an injunction issued against him,' and the obligation contracted in this bond, ' to pay to David Block, the defendant in
said injunction, all such damages as he may recover against
the obligors in case it should be decided that the said writ of
injunction was wrongfully issued.' We, therefore, hold that
the bond in this case did comply with the condition prescribed
in the judge's order, and that it was a valid bond." The court
.not .only construed the bonds in this way, but decided the
cases upon this view aยง to their meaning and effect, awarding
to the plaintiffs respectively only such damages as arose from
the effects of the' respective injunctions. The actions were
brought to recover such damages. The petition in each case
set forth the facts, showing the injuries which the plaintiff
suitained as the. immediate result of the injunction, and
based his claim to a recovery entirely on the damages arising
from such injuries. The evidence was directed to the establishment of these facts, and conformed to the allegations of
the petition. The court, in its opinion in the case of David
Block, after showing that the bond must be construed as intended to cover these damages, says: "After a careful examination and consideration of the evidence in the record, 'we are
satisfied that plaintiff suffered damages to the full extent of
the amount allowed him by the lower court. The judgment
appealed from is therefore affirmed." In the case of Isaacs,
the court at first reversed the judgment of the inferior tribunal, conceding that the order of the District Court required
security for the entire damages, past as well as future, but
considering the bond as not framed in conformity with it, and
as'iiot covering any damages but such as arose after it was
given, as to which there was no distinct evidence. Supposing,
however, that damages might be recovered against the plantiffs in the injunction independently of the bond, the court
reserved to Isaacs the right to bring a suit for that purpose.
But on a rehearing of the case, and after the argument and

MEYERS v. BLOCK.
Opinion of the Court.

decision in the Block case, the court came to a different conclusion, and held that the bond was in substantial conformity
with the order, and was to be construed as intended to save
the parties harmless from the effects of the injunction, adopting in all things the views expressed in the opinion in the
Block case. It then adds: "This leaves open for consideration the question of the quantum of damages allowed by the
judgment appealed from. We have gone over the evidence
on this point with care and deliberation, and reviewed all the
authorities cited bearing on this point, the same in both cases,
and are satisfied that the amount awarded by the judgment is
fully justified and sustained by the proof and the law." The
court thereupon set aside its former judgment and affirmed
that of the inferior court.
The fourth assignment of error is that the court erred in
holding that the bond, construed with the order requiring it,
bound the obligors for damages sustained before it was given.
The solution of the question raised by this assignment depends
upon the fair construction of the order, and of the bond given
in pursuance of it, and read (as it should be read) in the light
of it. The order was "that the injunction be maintaihed on
the complaining creditors giving bond and security to save
the parties harmless from tMe effc'" of saidinjunction." The
lat words clearly mean all tite cfeets of the injunction. The
condition of the bond was, to pay "all such damages as he
[the obligee] may recover against, us in case it should be
decided that the said writ of injunction was wrongfully
issued." It seems plain to us that all the damages arising
from the wrongful issue of the injunctions were intended to
be covered by the bond as well as by the order; in other
words, that the bond was intended and understood as a
compliance with the requirements of the order. That is the
natural and obvious meaning of its language when the two are
read together; and the parties signing the bcnd must be presumed to have been cognizant of the order under which it was
given.
It is unnecessary to review the authorities on this subject.
It is undoubtedly true, that a surety cannot be held beyond

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

the terms or legal effect of his engagement; and when that
has respect to theconduct or fidelity of the principal, or to

any other matter usually contemplated as arising in the future,
'it is to be interpreted prospectively, and not retrospectively.
But if, from the nature of the case, the subject of guaranty
is a past transaction in whole or in part, aid the language of
the engagement, taken in its natural sense or legal effect, is
broad enough to cover it, such language may properly be
construed to do so.
As to the power of a court of equity to impose any terms
in its discretion as a condition of granting or continuing an
injulnction, there can be no question. This subject is considered in the case of Pussell v. Farley, 105 U. S. 433.
We see no error in the judgments of the Supreme Court
of Louisiana in these cases, and they are affirmed, with costs.
Affirmned.

UNITED STATES v. RAMSAY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Submitted December 20, 1838.- Decided January 17, 18S7.

On the 29th April, 187i, A gave notice to a collector of internal revenue of
frauds upon the revenue by a railroad company, whereby it had become
liable to penalties. In consequence of this information an action was
commenced for the recovery of the penalties, which resulted in a compromise in June, 1874, and the payment of a sum by the company in discharge of its liability. A applied for the informer's share of this sum
under the provisions of ยง 179, act of June 30, 1864, 13 Stat. 305,'as amended
by the act of July 13, 1866, 14 Stat. 145. It was conceded that A was
the informei as clahned, and that he was entitled to the amount claimed,
if-the duty and power to make the payment were not taken away by ยง 39
of the act of June 6, 1872, 17 Stat. 256. repealing those previous provisions. :Payment was refused at the treasury, whereupon claimant brought
suit in the Court of Claims, and obtained judgment for the recovery of Ills
claim. On appeal this court affirms that judgment by a divided court.

SEcTIoN 179 of the act of June 30, 1864, 13 Stat. 305, as
amended by the act of July 13, 1866, 14 Stat. 145, was as

