UNITED STATE'S v. OTIS.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. OTIS.
OTIS v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF C0

S.

Submitted December 20, 1886.-Decided January 24,1S7.

Contacts between th United States and a mail contractor, one for mfiall
station service, and the other for malil messenger service, construed, ill
reference to payment for extra service.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

i'. Assistat Attorney Gener
States.

Howa/id for the United

Xl&. J. Coleman for Otis.
AMn. JUSTICE BLATOFoRD

delivered- the opinion of the court.

These are appeals by both parties from a judgment rendered
by the Court of Claims in favor of George K. Otis against the
United States for $16,445.36. The claims of Otis are founded
on two contracts for carrying the mails, on two routes, No.
6636 and No. 6635. The findings of fact by the Court of
Claims, contained in the record, are set forth at length in the
report of the case in 20 C. Cl. 315. Such of them as are
material are as follows:
As to No. 6636. -Finding No. 1. The United States advertised, March 1, 1877, by an advertisement headed "Jfail
'Station ,S'rvice, ievw York C;ty," for proposals "for carrying
the mails of the United States from July 1, 1877, to June 30,
1881, in the city of New York, as herein specified. Route
No. 6636." The fiidings state that the advertisement designated the points to and from which the mails should be
carried, but those points are not set forth in the findings.
The advertisement then proceeded: "It is to be understood
and agreed that any increase in the service which may be

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

rendered necessary by the removal to other localities of any
of the above named stations, or by any other cause, may be
ordered by the Postmaster General, and shall be paid foryro
crata; and, also, that compensation,Iwo 'ata,shall be deducted
in case of decrease in said service, caused by any such removal
or by the discontinuance of any of said stations."
Under this advertisement Otis made a written proposal "to
carry the mails of the United States from July 1, 1877, to
June 30, 1881, on Route No. 6636, between New York City
post-office and branch offices, state of New York, under the
advertisement of the Postmaster General dated March 1, 1877,"
for the sum of $14,900 per annum. On the 13th of April,
1877, a written contract was executed by the truited States
and Otis, which recited that the proposal of Otis, under said
advertisement, "for the. performance of the mail station service
at the city of New York, in the said advertisement described,"
at the price and for the term above named, had been accepted,
and then proceeded: "Now, therefore, the said contractor and
his sureties do, jointly and severally, undertake, covenant, and
agree with the United States of America to carry the mail of
the United States, using such proper means therefor, and particularly the wagons hereinafter described, as may be necessary to transport:the whole of said mail, -whatever may be its
size or weight, during the term of this contract. . . . And
any new or additional mail station service which may become
necessary and be required by the iPostmaster General during
the term of this contract.

.

.

.

It is further understood

and agreed, that any increase in the service which may be
rendered necessary by the removal to other localities of any
of the above named stations, or by any other cause, may be
ordered by the Postmaster General,, and shall be paid for p?-o
eata; and, also, that com'pensation,pro rata,shall be deducted
in case of decrease in said service, caused by any such removal,
or by the disc'ontinuance of any of said stations..
Otis, while engaged in carrying the mails under this 'contract, and also under the contract for mail messenger service,
set forth hereinafter in Finding No. 2, was directed by the
postmaster in New York City to perform the following trips:

UNITED STATES v. OTIS.
Opinion of the Court.

Eighteen round trips per week-from Station E, No. 465 Eighth
Avenue, to the Hudson River Railroad depot, Thirtieth Streef
and Tenth Avenue; six trips per week from posL-office to
Harlem Railroad depot, Forty-second Street and Fourth
Avenue, 6.30 A.M. train. These trips were duly performed.
The service between Station E and the Hudson River Railroad
depot amounted to 2784 miles. The allowance therefor under
said station service contract would be $657.58. The service
between the post-office and the Harlem Railroad depot
amounted to 2607.82 miles. The allowance therefor under
said station service contract would be $615.97.
As to No. 6635. Finding No. 2. The United States advertised Afarch 1, 1877, by an advertisement headed, "Jfail
.iJfessenger Service, Vew Yo'7k City," for proposals, "for carrying the mails of the United States between the post-office in
the city of New York and the railroad stations and steamboat
landings, and between the several stations where transfer service is required, from July 1, 1877, to June 30, 1881," on Route
No. 6635. The advertisement then proceeded: "The following schedule shows the mail messenger and transfer service
now required at New York; but the accepted bidder under
this advertisement will be required to perform, without additional compensation, any and all new or additional service
that may become necessary during the term of the contract,
whether to and between depots and landings now established
or those which may be hereafter established. -Bids must be
made with this distinct understanding, and must name the
amount per annum for the whole service, and not by the trip.
There will be no diminution of compensation on account of
the discontinuance of such portions of the service as may become ufnnecessary during. the contract term; but deductions
will be made for neglect of duty. . . .

OCTOBER TERM,

1880.

Opinioll of the Court.

" Schedule of service iwwow required.

Location of depot.

Railroad.

o
0

a

Mriles.
Pennsylvaia ............
RPennsylvania...........
..
Erie Railway .............
Northern Railroad of New Jersey

.
Jersey City .d . ..
Foot of Cortlandt Street.
.....
Jersey City ..
Jersey City.
......

1.45
.45
1.63
1.63

New Jersey-and New York . .
Montelair and Greenwood Lake . . .

.....
Jersey City
Jersey City .......

1.63
1.63

Jersey. City .......

1.45

New Jersey Midland ........

..

Central Railroad of New Jersey . . .
Delaw are, Lackawanna, and Western .

Jersey City .......
Hoboken ......

..

Grand Central depot .
New York and New Haven .......
Grand Central depot
..
New York and Harlem .......
New York Central and Hudson River . Grand Central depot
Pier 8, North River .
.......
New Jersey Southern ...
of Whitehall Street.
.Foot
..........
Staten Island ...
Pier 28, North River . .
Fall River Boat landing ........
Lng Island City . .
..........
Long Island ...

54
50
43
12

18
6
6

27
50
57
12

24
6
6

1.63
2.20

49
36

3T
42

3.23
3.23
3.23
.65
.90
.58

50
18
45
12
18
6

44
18
71
12
18
7

3.85

36

36

"T1rnsfers. Grand Central depot to Erie Railway, 3.35
miles, six times a week; Grand Central depot to Pennsylvania Railroad, 3.55 *miles,twenty-four times a week; Grand
Central depot (Boston line) to Grand Central depot (New York
Central and Iudson River line), .35 of a mile, as often as required. The transfer service to include the conveyance of all
cases of post-office supplies for transit through the city."
Under. this advertisement Otis made-a written proposal "to
carry the mails of the United States, from July 1, 1871, to
June 30, 1881, on mail messenger route, :No. 6635, between
the post-office at New York City ald the railroad stations and
steamship landings in said city, including transfers between
stations, and under the advertisement of' the Postmaster
General, dated March 1, 1877," for the sum of $57,900 per
annum. On the 13th of April, 1877, a written contract was
exeouted by the United States and Otis, which recited that
the proposal of Otis, under said advertisement, "for the performance of the mail messenger service at the city of New
York, in the said advertisement described," at the price and
for the term above named, had beeh accepted, and then proceeded: "Now, therefore, the said contractor and his sureties
do, jointly and severally, undertake, covenant, and agree with

UNITED STATES v. OTIS.
Opinion or the Court..

the United States of America to carry the mails of the United
States, uzing such proper means therefor, and particularly the
wagons hereinafter described, as may be necessary to transport
the whole of said mail, whatever may be its size or weight,
during the term of this contract, as followvs, to wit:
"From the N ew York City post-office to the Pennsylvania
Railroad depot (Jersey City) fifty-four (54) times per week;
returning fron said depot to post-office twenty-seven (27) tinie3
per week.
"From the New York City post-office to the Pennsylvania
Railroad depot (foot of Cortlandt Street) and back fifty (50)
times per week.
"From the New York City post-office to the Erie Rnilway
depot forty-three (43) times per week; returning from said
depot to post-office fifty-seven (57) times per week.
"From the New York City post-office to the depot of the
Northern Railroad of New Jersey and back twelve (12) times
per week.
"From the New York City post-office to the New Jersey and
New York Railroad depot eighteen (18) times per week; returning from said depot to post-office twenty-four (24) times
per week.
"From the New York City post-office to the]Montclair and
Greenwood Lake Railroad depot and back six (6) times per
week.
"From the New York City post-office to the New Jersey
Midland Railroad depot and back six (6) times per week.
"From the New York City post-oce to the depot of the
Central Railroad of New Jersey forty-nine (49) times per week;
returning from said depot to post-office thirty-seven (37) times
per week.
"From the New York City post-office to the Delaware,
Lackawanna and Western depot thirty-six (36) times per week;
returning from said depot to post-office forty-two (42) times
per week.
"From the New York City post-office to the New York and
New Haven Railroad-depot fifty (50) times per week; returning from said depot to post-office forty-four (44) times per
week

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

"From the New York City post-office to the New York and
Harlem Railroad depot and back eighteen (18) times per
week.
"From the New York City post-office to the New Yoik Central and Hudson River Railr6ad depot forty-five. (45) times per
week; returning from said depot to post-office seventy-one
(71) times per week.
"From the New York City post-office to the New Jersey
Southern Railroad depot and back twelve (12) times per week.
"From the New York City post-office to the Staten Island
Railroad depot and-back eighteen (18) times per week.
"From the New York City post-office to the Fall River Boat
landing six (6) times per week; returning from said landing to
post-office seven (7) times per week.
"From the New York .City post-office to the Long Island
Railroad depot and back thirty-six (36) times per week.
"11Transfers. Grand Central depot to Erie Railway six times
a week; Grand Central depot to Pennsylvania- Railroad
twenty-four times a week; Grand Central depot (Boston line)
to Grand Central depot (New York Central and Hudson River
line) as often as required.
" The transfer service to include the conveyance of all cases
of post-office supplies arriving for transit through the city;
each and every transfer to be made as often as may be required by the Postmaster General; and will do and perform
all other mail messenger and transfer service now being performed in the safd city of New York, and any and all new or
additional mail messenger or transfer service in the said city,
whether to and between depots and landings now established
And those which may hereafter be established, which may become necessary and be required by the Postmaster General
during the time of this contract, without additional compensation, said service to be performed at such hours of arrival and
departure at and from the above designated points or places,
or those which may be hereafter established, as the, postmaster
at New York City may order and dilect.
"it is hereby stipulated antagreed that the PostmasterGen-

UNITED STATES v. OTIS.
Opinion of the Court.

eral may, if it be required by the public interest, order. new or
additional service which may become necessary to be, performed, which shall b3 performed without additional compensation; also, that he may discontinue or curtail the ervice, in
whole or in part, if in his judgment the public interest shallso
require, he allowing as full indemnity to the contractor one
month's" extra pay on the amount of service dispensed with,
and apro rata compensation for the amount of service retained
and continued."
While Otis was engaged in the performance of this contract, the United States, on the 12th of November, 1878,
directed him to transport mails which theretofore had been
transferred, as required by the contract,'" from the New York
City post-office to the Pennsylvania Railroad depot (foot of
Cortlandt Street) and back, fifty times per week," across the
Hudson River to the Pennsylvania Railroad depot at Jersey
City, in the State of New Jersey. This service Otis performed
from November 12, 1878, to July 1, 1881. The pro Tata
compensation for it, as also its reasonable value, is 15,787.78.
When the contract was executed, this extra service was being
performed by the Pennsylvania' Railroad Company, under
contract with the United States.
The item for the extra service between Station E and the
Hudson River Railroad depot, $657.58, and the item for the
extra service between the foot of Cortlandt Street and Jersey
City, $15,787.78, were allowed by the Court of Claims. The
item for the extra service between the post-office and the Harlem Railroad depot, $615.97, was disallowed.
No error is assigned by Otis as to the disallowance of
the $615.97. But the United States questions the propriety of
the allowance of the other two items. They contend that the
"eighteen round trips per week from Station E, No. 465
Eighth Avenue, to the Hudson River Railroad depot, Thirtieth
Street and Tenth Avenue," were mail miessenger service, under
the contract for Route No. 6635, and not, as held by the
Court of Claims, mail station service, under the cofitract for
Route No: 6636. The argument is made that, mail station
service, under the latter contract, comprehended only service

OCTOBE R TERAI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

between the city post-office and the stations or branch offices,
and did not include service between a station or branch office

and a railroad depot; and that the latter was mail messenger
service, and was governed by the terms of the contract for
Route -o. 6635, which forbade extra compensation in regard
to it. Although it does not appear by the record what points
were designated in the advertisement or .in the contract for
'Route No. 6636, as those between which the mails were to be
carried, the fair inference is that there was no specific desig=.
nation which would include the trips between Statioff -E and
the Hudson River Railroad depot. The opinion of the Court
of Claims says, on this subject, that this service was not
"named in the station contract, but that instrument provided
that any increase in mail station service should be paid forpVo
' ta." It held that the service was, on its face, station service, the mails being taken from A station. The mail station
service for which Otis proposed was designated in his proposal
as "between New York City post-office and branch offices,"
and the "mail station service" named in the contract is referred to as that for which Otis proposed. Any increase in
the service which might be ordered was to be paid for pro
'ata. The service in question was an increase in the service,
beyond that for which the 814,900 per annum was to be paid.
The mail messenger contract for Route No. 6635 did not contemplate mail station service, but only service between the,
main post-office and railroad stations and steamboat -landings.
The $657.58 was, accordingly, properly allowed.
As to the oxtra service to Jersey City, under the contract
for Route No. 6635, the contract covered fifty-four trips per
week, from the New York City post-office to the Pennsylvania
Railroad depot at Jersey City, and ttrenty-seven trips per
week from that depot to that post-office; and also fifty trips
per weekfrom that post-office to the Pennsylvania Railroad
depot at the foot of Cortlandt Stree: and fifty trips per week
from the latter depot to that post-office. The (inding of the
Court of Claims is, that on each ocdasion of a trip under the
item of fifty trips per week from the post-office to the depot
at the foot of Cortlandt Street and back, Otis was required, in

UNITED STATES v. OTIS.
Opinion of the Court.

addition, to carry the mails across the Hudson River, and did
so. These trips were no portion of the trips! contracted for
from the post-office to the Pennsylvania Railroad depot at
Jersey City andl back. It is also found by the Court of
Claims that, when the contract was executed, this extra service in regard to the fifty trips was being performed by the
Pennsylvania Railroad Company, under a contract with the
United States. This extra service was not included in the
routes designated in the contract.
The contract provides that Otis shall "do and perform all
other mail messenger and transfer service now being performed in the said city of New York, and any and all new or
additional mail messenger or transfer service in the said city,
whether to and between depots and landings now established
and those which may hereafter be established, which may
become necessary and be required by the Postmaster General
during the time of this contract, without additional compensation." There is this further provision: ",It is hereby stipulated
and agreed that the Postmaster General may, if it be required
by the .public interest, order new or additional service which
may become necessary to be performed, which shall be performed without, additional compensation."
It is contended for the United States, that, as Otis specifically agreed, in the cpntract, to carry the mails to the Pennsylvania Railroad depot at Jersey City, 54 times, and back 27
times, each week, in addition to carrying them to Cortlandt
Street and back 50 times each week, the extra service across
the river is "new or additional service," and so to be performed
without additional compensation.. But the fair constructibn
of the two clauses of the contract, taken together, is, that the
new or additional service which is to be performed without
additional compensation is new or additional service in the
city of New York, as expressed in the first claise. Especially
is this so, as the contract specifically designates the 54 trips
and the 27 trips as being to and from Jersey City, and then
provides for 50 other trips to Cortlandt Street and 50 back.
Und&r those circumstances, the limitation of the new or .additional service to be performed without additional compensa-

OCTOBER TERM;, 1886.
Opinion of,-the Court.

tion, to such service in the city of :New York, would be natural,
service under the contract, and out of that city, and to Jersey
City, being specially provided for in the case of mails deliverable at a depot of the Pennsylvania Railroad, at Jersey City,
and service under the contract, and out of the city of New
York, being also provided for in, six other instances of delivery
in Jersey City, and one in Hoboken, and one in Long Island
City, at 'places to be reached, only by ferries.

Judgrent afflrned.

UNITED STATES v. COOPER.
'APPEAL FROM1 THE COURT OF CLAMI.
Submitted January 7, 1887. -Decided

January 24, 18S7.

There is nothing in the facts in this case to take it out of the operation of
United States v. Taylor, 104 U. S. 216, where, after consideration, it was
held that the act of August 5, 1861, ยง 36, 12 Stat. 304 was not repealed
by the act of June 7, 1862, 12 Stat. 422; that prior to the application of
the owner of the land sold for taxes for the surplus in the Treasury
aiising from the sale, he had no claim therefof which could be enforced
by suit against the United States; and that the statute of limitations
began to run against it only from the date of hi9 application.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
ir.

Attorney General and ut. Hfeber J. 2fay for appellant.

2f.. Gilbert 3foyers for appellee.
MR. JUsTicE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
In June, 1864, certain parcels of real estate in the county of
Shelby, state of Tennessee, at that time the property of John
C. Cooper, were sold by the United States tax commissioners
for direct taxes, under the act of Congress of August 5, 1861,
and acts amendatory thereof. 12 Stat., pp. 292, 304, c. '45 and
c. 98, p. 422. The taxes, including charges and commissions,
amounted to $33.35. The property was sold for $425. The
surplus, after payment of the taxes, charges, and commissions,

