UNITED STATES v. ARJONA.
Syllabus.

was offered for the ostensible purpose of explaining that part
of the retmun of William Gray, the deputy surveyor, and the
assessment for taxes received in evidence on the part of the
plaintiff below, and in order to show that the taxes alleged to
have been paid by Dr. Thomas Ruston might have been paid
upon other tracts than the Lewis Walker tract in controversy.
It seems to us, however, very clear that the offer was rightly
rejected; that the part of the return offered related to other
lands than the tract in question, was wholly irrelevant to the
issue in the case, and did not tend to prove any material
fact.
Neither was there any error in the other rulings of the court
excepted to, in reference to other offers of evidence by the
defendants below, made with the view of showing that Thomas
Ruston paid taxes and made claims to other surveys in the
name of Lewis Walker than that of the tract in dispute. None
of them tended to show that Ruston was not the owner of the
Lewis Walker tract in controversy, wbatever they may have
shown with reference to his claims to other tracts for which
warrants and surveys had been made in the same name.
This disposes of all the questions. raised by the assignments
of error.
We find no error in the record, and the judgment is accordingly
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. ARTONA.
,ERTXFICATEOF DIVISION FROMN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UITED
STATES "FOR THE SOUTHERN

DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Submitted January 3, 18S7.-Decided March 7, 18S7.

It is within the constitutional power of Congress to enact laws to provide for the punishment of the offences of counterfeiting notes of a
foreign bank or corporation," or of having in possession a plate from
which may be printed counterfeits of the notes of a foreign bank or
corporation; and it is not necessary to allege in an indictment for such
an offence, oe to show, that the notes of such a bank or corporation
are notes of money or issue of a foreign Government, sovereign, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.
power; nor is it necessary to allege that the offence is "an offence against
the Law of Nations."
The counterfeiting of foreign securities, whether national or corporate,
which have been put out under sanction of public authority at homeespecially the counterf~itlng of bank notes and bank bills -Is u offence
against the Law of Nations.
The United States being bound to protect a right secured by the Law of
Nations to another nation or its people, Congress has the constitutional
power to enact laws for that purpose; but this does not prevent a State
from enacting laws to punish the same act when it may be an offence
against the authority of the state as well as that'of the United States.

INxmorENT under the act of May 16, 1884, 23 Stat. 22, to
prevent and punish the counterfeiting within the Vnited States
of notes, bonds, and other securities of foreign governments.
The court below certified a Division in Opinion on several
points. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
_21. .Attorney General for plaintiff.
lr. George F. IWlngate and X1.
defendant.

Augustus A. Ievey for

Mi . CMEF JusTioE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an indictment containing threecount against :Ramon
Arjona, for violations of § 3 and 6, of the act of May 16,
1884, c. 52, 23 Stat. 22, "to prevent and punish the counterfeiting within the United States of notes, bonds, and other
securities of foreign Governments." The first and second
counts were found under § 6 of the statute, and the third
'under § 3.
The statute makes the following things criminal:
1. SEC. 1. Forging or counterfeiting within the United
States, with intent to defraud, "any bond, certificate, obligation, or other security of any foreign Government, issued or
put forth under the authority of such foreign Govermnent, or
any treasury note, bill, or promise to pay issued by such foreign
Government, and intended to circulate as money either by
law, order, or decree of such foreign Government."
2. SEc. 2. Knowingly, and with intent to defraud, uttering,

-UNITED STATES v. ARJONA.
Opinion of the Court.

passing or putting off in payment or negotiation, within the
United States, any forged or counterfeit bonds, &c., such as
are described in § 1.
3. SEC. 3. Falsely making, forging or counterfeiting within
the United States, with intent to defraud, or knowingly assisting therein, "any bank note or bill issued by b- bank or other
corporation of any foreign country, and intended by the law
or usage of such foreign country to circulate as money, such
bank or corporation being authorized by the laws of such
country."
4. SEc. 4. Knowingly uttering, passing, putting off or ten-

dering in payment, within the United States, with intent to
defraud, any such false or counterfeited bank note or bill as is
mentioned in §3, whether forged or counterfeited in the United
States. or not.
5. SEc. 5. Having in possession any forged or counterfeit instruments mentioned in the preceding sections, with intent to
utter, pass, or put them off, or to deliver them to others, with
the intent that they may be uttered or passed.
6. SEc. 6. Having in possession "any plate, or any part thereof, from which has been printed or. may be printed any counterfeit note, bond, obligation, or other security, in whole or in
part, of any foreign Government, bank, or corporation, except
by lawful authority;" or using such plate, or knowingly permitting or suffering "the same to be used, in counterfeiting
such foreign obligations, or any part thereof;" or engraving,
or causing or procuring to be engraved, or assisting "in engraving, any plate in the likeness or similitude of any plate
designed for the printing of the genuine issues of the obligations of any foreign Government, bank, or corpofration;" or
printing, photographing, or in any other manner making,
executing, or selling, or causing "to be printed, photographed,
made, executed, or sold," or aiding "in printing, photographing, making, executing, or selling any engraving, photograph,
print, or impression in the likeness of any genuine note, bond,
obligation, or other security, or any part thereof, of any foreign
Government, bank, or corporation;" or bringing "into the
United States

.

vOL. cxx-31

.

.

any counterfeit plate, engraving, pho-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

tograph, print, or other impressions of the notes, bonds, obligtions, or other securities of any foreign Government, bank,
or corporation."
The first count of the indictment charges AMjona with having "ift his control and custody a certain metallic plate from
which there might then and there be printed in part a counterfeit note in the likeness and similitude in part of the notes
theretofore issued by a foreign bank, to wit, the -bank known
as El Banco del Estado de Bolivar, which said bank was then
and there a bank authorized by the laws of a for6ign state, to
wit, the state of Bolivar, said state being then and-there one
of the states of the United States of Columbia."
In'the second count, he is charged with having caused and
procured "to be engraved a certain metallic plate in the likeness and similitude of a plate designated for the printing of
the genuine issues of the obligations of a foreign bank, that is
to say, of the bank notes of the bank known as El Banco del
Estado de Bolivar, the 'same being then and there a bank
authorized by the laws of a foreign state, to wit, the state of
Bolivar, said state being then and there one of the states of
the United States of Columbia."
In the third count, the charge is that he, "unlawfully and
with intent to defraud, did cause and. procure to te falsely.
made a certain note in the similitude and resemblance of the
notes theretofore issued by a bank of a foreign country, to wit,
the bank known as El Banco del Estado de Bolivar, the same
being then and there a bank authorized by the laws of one of
the states of the United States of Columbia, that is to say, the
state of Bolivar, and the notes issued by the said bank being
then and'by the usage of the said state of Bolivar intended to
circulate as.money?
To this indictment a demurrer was filed, and the judges
holding the court have certified that at the hearing the following questions arose, upon which their opinions were opposed:
1. Whether the third section of the statute is constitutional.
2. Whether the sixth section is constitutional so far as it relates to "foreign banks and corporations."
3. Whether the counterfeiting within the United States of

UNITED STATES v. ARJONA.
Opinfon of the Court.

the notes of a foreign bank or corporation can be constitutionally made by Congress an offence against the law of nations.
4. Whether the obligations of the law 9f nations, as referred
to in the Constitution of the United States, include the punishment of counterfeiting the notes of a foreign bank or corporation, or of having in possession a plate from which may be
printed counterfeits of the notes of foreign banks or porporations, as mentioned in the third and sixth sections, "unless it
appear or isalleged in the' indictment that the notes of said
foreign bank or corporation are the notes or money of issue of
a foreign Government, prince, potentate, state, or power."
5. Whether, if there is power to "so define the law of nations" as to include the offences mentioned in the third and
sixth sections, it is not necessary, in order "to define" the
offence, that it be declared in the statute itself "to be an
offence against the law of nations."
6. Whether the indictment is sufficient in law.
The fourth of the questions thus stated embraces the 4tn,
5th, 6th, th, andt 8th of those certified, and the fifth embraces
the 9th and 10th.
Congress has power to make all laws which shall be necessary and proper to carry into execution the -powers vested by
the Constitution in the Government of the United States, Art.
I, see. 8, clause 18; and the Govermnent of the United States
has been vested exclusively with the power of representing the
nation in all its intercourse with foreign countries. It alone
can "regulate commerce with foreign nations," Art. I, sec. 8,
clause 3; make treaties and appoint ambassadors and other
public ministers and consuls. Art. II, see. 2, clause 2. A'
state is expressly prohibited from entering into any "treaty,
alliance, or confederation." Art. I, sec. 10, clause 1. Thu.all
official intercourse between a state and foreign nations is prevented, and exclusive authority for that purpose given tQ
the United States. The national government is in this way
made responsible to foreign nations for all violations by the
United States of their international obligations, and because of
this, Congress is expressly authorized "to define and punish
. . . offences against the law of nations." Art. I, see. 8,
clause 10.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

The law of nations requires every national government to
use "due diligence" to prevent a wrong being done within its
own dominion to another nation with which it is at peace, or
to the people thereof; and because of this the obligation of
one nation to punish those who within its own jurisdiction
counterfeit the money of another nation has long been recognized. Vattel, in his Law of Nations, which was first printed
at Neuch'tel in 1758, and was translated into English and
published in England in 1760, uses this language: "From the
principles thus laid down, it is easy to conclude, that if one
nation counterfeits the money of another, or if she allows and
-protects false coiners who presume to do it, she does that nation an injury." 1 When this was written money was the chief
thing of this kind that needed protection, but still it was added:
"There is another custom more modern, and of no less use to
commerce than the establishment of coin, namely, exchange,
or the traffic of bankers, by means of which a merchant remits immense sums from one end of the world to the other, at
very trifling expense, and, if he pleases, without risk. For the
same reason that sovereigns are obliged to protect commerce,
they are obliged to support this custom, by good laws, in
which every merchant, whether citizen or foreigner, may find
security. In general, it is equally the interest and duty of
every nation to have wise and equitable commercial laws
established in the country."' Yattel, Law of iNations, Phil.
ed. 1876, Book I, chap. 10, pages 46, 47. In a note by
Mr. Chitty Jn his London edition of 1834 it is said: "This is

I § 105. Des principes que nous venons d'6tablir, i1 est ais6 de conclure,
que si une Nation contrefait la monnale d'une autre, on si elle souffre et
protege les faux-monnayeurs qui osent l'entreprendre, elle lui fait injure.
2 Ii est un antre usage plus moderne, et 'non molus utile an commerce que l'6tablissement de la monnaie: c'est le change, on le ngoce des banquiers, par le moyen duquel un marchaod remet d'un bout du
monde A r'autre des sommes immenses, presque sans frais, et, s'il le vent,
sans peril. Par la meme raison quo les souveraids doivent proteger le commerce, ils sont obliges do soutenir cet usage par de boes
lois, dans lesquelles tout marchand, 6tranger oh citoycn, puisse trouver sa sfiret6. En
genfral, il est kgalement de l'interet et du devoir de toute Nation, d'tablir
chez elle de sages et justes lois de commerce.

UNITED STATES v. ARJONA.

485'

Opinion of the Cour

a sound principle, which ought to be extended so as to deny
effect to .any fraud upon a foreign nation or its subjects." Id.
47, note 50.
This rule was established- for the protection of 'nations in
their intercourse with each other. If there were no such
intercourse, it would be a matter of no special moment to one
nation that its money was counterfeited in another. Its own
people could not be defrauded if the false coin did not come
among them, and its own .sovereignty.would not be violated
if the counterfeit could not under any circumstances be made
to take the place of the true money. But national intercourse
inQludes commercial intercourse between the people of' different nations.. It is " much the duty of a nation to protect
such an intercourse as it -is any other, and that is what Vattel
meant when he said: "For the same reason that sovereigns
are obliged to protect commerce, they,are obliged to support
this custom;" "namely, exchange, or the traffic of bankers,
by means of which a merchant remits immense sums from one
end of the world to the other," " by good laws, in which every
merchant, whether citizen or fofeigner, may find security."
In the time of Yattel certificates of the public debt of a
nation, government bonds, and other. government securities,
were rarely seen in any other country than that in which they
were put out. Banks of. issue were not so common as to need
special protection for themselves or the public against forgers
and counterfeiters elsewhere than at home, and the great
corporations, now so numerous and so important, established by
public authority for the promotion of public enterprises, were
almost unknown, and certainly they had .not got to be'extensive borrowers of money wherever it could be had at home or
abroad on the faith of their quasi public securities. Now,
however, the amount of national and corporate debt 'and of
corporate property represented by bonds; certificates, notes,
bills, and other forms of commercial securities, which are
bought and sold in all the money market$ of the world, both
in and out of the country under whose authority they were
created, is something enormous.
Such being the case, it is easy to see that the same principles

486"

OCTOBER TERI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

that developed, when it became necessary, the rule of national
conduct which was intended to prevent, as far as might be,
the counterfeiting of the money of one nation within the
dominion of another, and which, in the opinion of so eminent
a publicist as Yattel, could be applied to thq foreign exchange
of bankers, may, with just propriety, be extended to the protpction of this more recent custom among bankers of dealing
in for6ign securities, whether national or corporate, which
have been put out under the sanction of public authority at
home, and sent abroad as the subjects of trade and commerce.
-And especially is this so of bank notes and bank bills issued
under the authority of law, which, from their very nature,
enter into and form part of the circulating medium of
exchange- the money- of a country. Under such circumstances, every nation has not only the right to require the
protection, as far as possible, of its 'own credit abroad against
fraud, but the banks and other great commercial corporations,
which have been created within its -own jurisdiction for the
advancement. of the public good, may call on it to see that
their interests 'are not neglected by a foreign government to
whose dominion they have, in the lawful prosecution of their
business, become to some extent subjected.
No nation can be more interested in this question than the
United States. Their money is practically composed of treasury notes or certificates issued by themselves, or of bank bills
issued by banks created under their authority and subject to
their control. Their own securities, and those of the states,
the cities, and the public corporations, whose interests abroad
they alone have the power to guard against foreign national
neglect, are found on sale in the principal money markets of
Europe. If these securities, whether national, municipal, or
corporate, are forged and counter1feited with impunity at the
places -where:they are sold, it is easy to see that a great wrong
will be done to the United States and their people. Any
•'uncertainty about the genuineness of the security necessarily
depreciates its value as a merchantable commodity, and
against this international comity requires that national protection shall, as far as possible, be afforded. If there is neglect

UNITED STATES v. AIRJONA.
Opinion of the Court.

in that, the United States may, with propriety, call on the
proper, government to provide for the punishment of such an
offence, and thus secure the restraining influences of a fear' of
the consequences of wrong doing. A refusal may not, perhaps,, furnish sufficient cause for war, but it would certainly
give just ground of complaint, and thus disturb that harmony
between the-governments which each is bound to cultivate
and promote.
But if the United States, can require. this of another, that
other may require it of them, because international obligations
are of necessity reciprocal in their nature. The right, if it
exists at all, is given by the law of nations, and what is lawfor on6 is,-under the same circumstances, law for the other.
A right secured by the law of nations to a nation, or its
people, is one the United States as the representatives of this
nation are bound to protect. Consequently, a law which is
necessary and proper tQ afford. this protection is one that Con-.
gress may enact, because it is one that is needed to carry into
execution a power conferred by the Constitution on the Gove nment of fhe United States exclusively. There is no authority in the United States to require the passage and enforcement'of such a law by the states. Therefore th6 United
States must have the power to pass it and enforce it themselves, or be unable to perform a duty which they may owe to
another nation, and which the law of nations has imposed on
them as part of their -international obligations. This, however, does not prevent a state from providing for the punishnent of the same thing; for here, as in the case of counterfeiting the coin of the. United States, the act may be an offence
against the authority of i state as well as that of the United
States.
Again, our own people maybe dealers at home in the public
or quasipublic securities of a foreign government, or of foreign
banks or corporations, brought here in the course of our coinmuerce with foreign nations, or sent-here from abroad for sale
in the moncy markets of this country. As such they enter
into and form part of the foreign commerce of the country.
If such se-Ourities can be counterfeited here with impunity, our

OCTOBER TERAM

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

own people may be made to suffer by a wrong done which
affedts a business that has been expressly placed by the Constitution under the protection of the government of the United
States.
It remains only to consider those questions which present
the point whether, in enacting a statute to define and punish
an offence against the law of nations, it is necessary, in order
"to define" the offence, that it be declared in the statute
itself to be "an offence against the law of nations." This statute defines the offence, and if the thing made punishable is
one which the United States are required by their international obligations to use due diligence to prevent, it is an
offence against the law of nations. Such being the case, there
is no more need of declaring in the statute that it is such an
offence than 'there would be in any other criminal statute to
declare that it was enacted to carry into execution any other
particular power vested by the Constitution in the Govermnent
of the United States. Whether the offence as defined is an offence
against the law of nations depends on the thing done, not on
any declaration to that effect by Congress. As'has already
been seen, it was incumbent on the United States as a nation
to use due diligence to prevent any injury to another nation
or its people by counterfeiting its money, or its public or quasi
public securities. This statute was enacted: as a means to that
end, that is to say, as a means of performing a duty which had
been cast on the United States by the law of nations, and it
was clearly appropriate legislation for that purpose. Upon its
face, therefore, it defines an offence against the law of nations
as clearly as if Congress had in express terms so declared.
Criminal statutes passed for enforcing and preserving the neutral relations of the United States with other nations were
passed by Congress at a very early date; June 5, 1794, c. 50,
1 Stat. 381; :June 14, 1797, c. 1, 1 Stat. 520; March 3, 1817, c.
58, 3 Stat. 370; April 20, 1818, c. 88, 3 Stat. 447: and those
now in force are found in Title LXVII of the Revised Statutes. These all rest on the same power of Congress that is
here invoked, and it has never been supposed they were
invalid because they did not expressly declare that the offences
there defined were offences against the law of nations.

ROBBIXS v. SHELBY TAXING DISTRICT.

' 489

Syllabus.

If there is anything more in the eleventh question certified
than has been already disposed of in answering the others, it
is too broad and indefinite for our consideration under the
rules which have been long established regulating the practice
on a certificate of division.
All tMe -questions certified, except the eleventh, 'are anwered
in the affirnwtive, and as to 'that,no pecial awnswer wll be
made.

ROBBIN7S v. SHELBY COUNTY TAXING DISTRICT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT-OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.
Submitted Jauuary 8,1886.-Argued November 5, 1886. -Decided March 7,1887.

Chapter 96, § 16, Stats. Tennessee, 1881, enacting that "all drummers and
all persons not having a regular licensed house of business in the Taxing
District ' of Shelby County,' offering for sale, or selling goods, Wares, or
merchandise therein by sample, shall be requirbd to pay to the county
trustee, th sum of .%10 per week, or-$25-per month for such privilege,"
applies to persons soliciting the sale of goods on behalf of individuals
or firms doing business in another state; and, so far as it applies to them,
it is a regulation of commerce among the state, and violates the provision of the Constitution of the United States which grants to Congress
the power to make such regulations..
Interstate commerce cannot be taxed at all by a state, even -though the same
amount of tax should be laid on domestic commerce, or that which is
carried on solely within the state.
The power granted to Congress, to regulate commerce among the states,
being exclusive when the subjects are national in their character, or 'admit only of one uniform system of regulation, the failure of Congress
ta exercise that power in any case, is an expression of its will that -the
subject shall be left free from restrictions or impositions upon" it by the
several states.
A state may enact laws which in practice operate to affect commerce amoifg
the states - as by providing in the legitimate exercise of its police power
and general jurisdiction, for the security and, comfort of persons and
the protection of property; by establishing and regulating channels for
commercial, facilities; by the passage of inspection laws and laws to
restrict the sale of articles injurious to health and morals; by the infposition of taxes upon avocations within its borders not interfering with
foreign .or interstate commerce or employment, or with business exer-

