VITERBO. v.- FRIEDLAZDER.
S3)labus.

vision of the clause would describer the exact offence charged
against the plaintiff in error and his co-conspirators -that
they went on the premises of the Chinese with the intent to
deprive them of rights and privileges conferred by the
treaty

-the

law of the land -an

intent which they carried

out by forcibly expelling the Chineso from the town and
county of their residence aud business. But without adopting
or rejecting his view, I prefer to place my dissent upon what
I deem the erroneous. construction by the court of the third

clause of § 5336, in holding that it does not cover this case,
but applies only to cases where there has been a forcible resistance to measures adopted by Congress for the execution of a
law, or a treaty of the United States.
The result of the decision is, that there is no national law
which can be invoked for the protection of the subjects of
China in their right to reside and do business in this country,
notwithstanding the language of the treaty with that empire.
And the same result must follow with reference to similar
rights and privileges of the subjects or citizens resident in this
country or any other nation with which we have a treaty with
like stipulations. Their only protection against any forcible
resistance to the execution of these stipulations in their favor
is to be found in the laws of the different states. Such a
result is one to be deplored.

VITERBO v'. FRIEDLANDER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Submitted March 7,1886.-Decided March 21, 1887.

The Civil Code of Louisiana, following the civil law of Rome, Spain, and
France, and differing from the common law, regards a lease for years
as a mere tiansfer of the thing 1ased; and holds the landlord bound,
without any express covenant, to keep it in repair and otherwise fit for
the use for which it is leased, even When the want of repair or the
unfitness is caused by an inevitable accident; and if he does not do so,
authorizes the tenant to have the lease annulled or the rent abated.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.
in construfng those articles of the Civil Code of LQuisiana, which were
originally enacted both in French and in English, the French text may
be taken into consideration for the purpose of clearing up obscurities or
ambiguities in the English text.
The breaking pf a crevasse in the levees by the waters of the Mississippi
River is a fortultous or unforeseen event, within the meaning of the Civil Code of Louisiana; and if in consequence thereof a sugar plantation, leased for live years, with the buildings, mules and implements
necessary for the cultivatl6n of sugar cane, and with the growing crop of
cane (which the lessee agrees to cut and plant as seed cane, and, by way
of reimbursing te lessor for, to leave a certain amount of growing
cane on the plau'tation at the end of the lease), is overflowed for three
months, all the cane destroyed, the canals and clitches necessary for
drainage fille' up, the bridges swept away, and a deposit from three to
six inches deep left over the whole ground, making-it necessary, in"
order to cultivate it as a sugar plantation the following year, to spend
large sunis of money to dig out canals and ditches, repair bridges, and
buy seed cane, the plantation is partially destroyed, or ceases to be fit
-or the use for which it was leased, within the meaning of articles 2697
(266') and 2699 (2669) of that code, and the lessee is entitled to have
the lease annulled; nowitlistanding the provision of aiticle 2743 (2714)
th'at the tenant of a predial estate cannot claim an abatement of rent for
a destruction of a whole or'part of his crop by inevitable accidents,
inless they are of such a nature that they could not have'been foreseen
by either party when the lease was made.

Tuis was a petition; filed O6tober 2, 1884, by a citizen of
France against a citizen of Louisiana, to annul a lease of a
sugar plantation from the defendant to the petitioner for five
years; and alleging that by an extraordinary ris6 of the Mississippi River, which could not have been foreseen, and without
any fault of the lessee, a crevasse was made in the levees of --a
neighboring plantation, the leased plantation overflowed, all
the cane destroyed, and the plantation rendered wholly unfit
for the purpose for which it had been leasedi and that the
petitioner requested the defendant, as soon as the water, from
the crevasse should have withdrawn, to put back the plantation
in the same condition as when leased, and to replace the plant'
cane and stubble, and the defendant refused to do so. By direction of the Circuit .Court, the case was transferred to the
chancery side, and the petitioner filed a bill in equity, containing similar allegations, and. praying for like relief.
The lease in question was dated October 27, 1883, and was

VITERBO v. FRIEDLANDER.
Statement of Facts.

of "a sugar plantation, situated in the parish of St. Charles in
this state, known as Friedlander's plantation," and "all the
buildings, outhouses, fences, sugar-houses, and other appurtenances thereof," (particularly described,) from September 27,
1883, to December 15, 1888, at an annual rent of $5000.
which the lessee agreed to pay; and contained the following
provisions:
"And the said lessor further declared that he does hereby
give unto said lessee all of the growing cane crop of 1883 now
standing in the field, which the said lessee expressly binds
himself to plant as seed cane on said plantation. And to reimburse said lessor for said cane crop, said lessee binds himself
to leave on said plantation for the sole use and benefit of said
lessor, at the termination of this lease, December 15, 1888,
eighty-five acres of full-standed seed cane (such as is usually
,called first year's stubble) which has been thoroughly cultivated, cut at the proper time for saving seed, and carefully
-windrowed, especkidy for seed; and in addition thereto, said
lessee shall also leave on said plantation for said lessor not less
than two hundred acres of stubble from what is called plant
cane, which shall be properly protected in the ground."
"And said lessee binds himself to deliver said plantation at
the expiration of this lease, with the ditches in a good-drain-ing condition, sufficiently so for the proper cultivation of as
much land as may have been under cultivation by said lessee
luring his fourth year's occupancy of said plantation; and the
foregoing clause means that said lessee shall not neglect nor
allow the fillipg up of said ditches during the last year of this
lease any more than ditches usually fill .up in one year on a
well managed sugar plantation in good cultivation."
"And the said lessor further declared that he leaves with
said lessee, to be used in the culture of sugar cane on said
plantation, thirty-four mules," valued at $3700, and implemeifts of husbandry and sugar culture, (partisularly enumerated,) valued at $500; all of which the lessee agrees to return
in kind or value at the expiration of the lease. "
The answer admitted the execution of the lease; and that
in March, 1884, when the waters of the Mississippi River were

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

at their usual spring rise or flood, the levees along its banks
near the leased property gave way, and inundated the country
to some extent; and the demand and refusal to restore the
plantation to its original condition and to replace the cane;
but denied the other allegations of the bill.
After the filing of a general replication, the case was referred to a master, who reported the facts as follows:
"The lessee, on entering upon the lease, according to the
evidence, found the ditches in a bad condition, and no canal
into which to drain the fields, except one on the lower side of
the plantation. In order to prepare the ground for cultivation
of sugar cane, he decided that a more perfect system of drainage was necessary, and he caused a canal to be dug through
the centre of the plantation from the front to the swamp, and
enlarged and deepened the ditches, securing thereby a better
system of drainage."
"In March, 1884-, a crevasse occurred upon what is known
as the Davis plantation, the: back waters from which crevasse
overflowed a large portion of the Friedlander plantation, especially that portion used for cultivation, and it was under
water for several months.
"The damage caused by this overflow I find from the 'evidence to be as follows: The lessee lost, by reason of said overflow, the entire crop of sugar cane of 1884:; that is, the 200
acres of stubble cane. and the 85 acres of plant cane were
destroyed ; the ditches were partially, and in some places
entirely, filled ; the canals, especially the one dug by the lessee, were partially filled, and the bridges generally swept
away; the water remained over the land until July, 1884; a
deposit was left over the land of from three inches t6 six inches.
To cultivate the land as a sugar plantation the following year
(1885), it would require ditches to be redug, the canals to be
opened or cleaned out, the bridges replaced, and seed cane to
be obtained and planted, all at considerable expense, to put
the plantation in the condition it was at date of the crevasse."
"The plaintiff admits the plantation would grow a crop of
-,cane. But it would require a considerable sum of money and
labor to put it in good condition for the growing of cane ; that

VITERBO v. FRIEDLANDER.
Statement, of Facts.

is, it would require seed cane, the canals and ditches to be dug
ofit, and the bridges rebuilt. This work is an incident to the
growing-of a crop of sugar cane annually. Some years it may
require more seed cane, more labor -to put the -canals and
ditches in order, than in others. The land, therefore, has not
ceased to be fit for the purposes for which it was leased; on the
contrary, some of the witnesses suggest that the deposit has
enriched and greatly benefited the land."
The master, after dissussing at length the law of the case,
concluded and reported that the property leased. was not destroyed, and had not ceased to be fit for the purpose for which
it was leased'; that the loss of the growing crop, the partial
filling of the canals and ditches, and the washing away of
the bridges, were not caused by an " unforeseen event ; . that.
equity could give no relief to th'e plaintiff, and that his bill,
should be dismissed.
Exceptions taken by the plaintiff to the master's report, in
regard both to his findirgs of fact and to his conclusions of
law, were overruled by the Circuit Court, and a decree entered
for the defendant, dismissing the bill. .2 Fed. Rep. 320.
The plaintiff appealed to this court, and filed the following
assignment of, errors:
"1st. That-when property leased has been rendered unfit
for the purpose for which it was leased, by the act of God, he
lease is dissolved.
"2d. That the facts show that the plantation leased" as a
sugar plantation has been destroyed, and the lease is at an end.
"3d. That sugar cane, which is in the form of plant and
ritoon or stubbles, is a part and portion of the land, and when
destroyed the destruction annuls the lease.
".4th. That the draining ditbhes and canals, dug by the lessee in fulfilment of his obligation under his lease, become, the
property of the lessor, and when destroyed by a crevasse it becomes the duty of the lessor to put them back in the coidition
they were befoic the,crevasse.
"5th. That when a lessor is duly pup in default to fulfil a
part of his obligations as landlord, and refuses, the lease is
dissolved."

OCTOBER TERAI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

.Ar.Charles Lougue and .Mr'. Albert Voorhies for appellant.
XIfr. George H. Braughn and Hr. Charles F. BucTk for appellee. MR. JUsTICe. Guny, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.

In considering this case, it is important to keep in mind that
the view of the common law of England and of most of the
'United States, as to the nature of a leas3 for years, is not that
which is taken by the civil law of Rome, Spain, and France,
upon which the Civil Code of Louisiana is based.
The common law and the civil law concur in holding that in
the case of an executed sale a subsequent destruction of the property by any cause is the loss of the buyer. -Res perit domino.
They also concur in holding that p3rformance of an executory
obligation to convey a specific thing is excused by the accidental destruction of the thing, without the fault of the
obligor, before the conveyance is made. Taylor v. Caldwell,
3 B. & S.826; Wells v. Calnan, 107 Mass. 514; Pothier, Obligations, nos. 657, 668'; Contrat de Lounage, no. 65; Civil Code
of Louisiana, art. 2219 (2216).
But as to the nature and effect of a lease for years, at a
certain rent which the lessee agTees to pay, and containing
no express covenant on the part of the lessor, the two systems
differ materially. The common law regards such a lease as
the grant of an estate for years, which the lessee takes a title
in, and is bound to pay the stipulated rent for, notwithstanding any injury by flood, fire, or. .external violence, at least
unless the injury is such a destruction of the land as to amount
to an eviction; and by that law the lessor is under no implied
covenant to repair, or even that the premises shall be fit for
the purpose for which they are leased. Fowler v. Bott, (
Mass. 63; 3 Kent Com. 465, 466; Broom's -Legal Maxims
(3d ed.) q13, 214; Doupe v. Genin, 45 N. Y. 119; lfingsbur!i/
v. Westfall, 61 N. Y. 356; Naumberg v. Young, 15 Vroom,
331; Bowe v. Hunking, 135 Mass. 380; .AXanceheter Warehouse Co. v. Carr, 5 C. P. D. 507.

VITERBO v. FRIEDLANDER.
Opinion of the Court.

The civil law, on the other hand, regards alease for years
as a mere trinsfer of -hte use and enjoyment of the property;
and holds the landlord bound, without any express covenant,
to keep it in repair and otherwise fit for use and enjoyment
for the purpose for which it is leased, even when the need of
repair or the unfitness is caused by an inevitable accident;
and if he does not do so, the tenant may have the -lease
annulled, or the rent abated. Dig. 19, 2, 9, 2; 19, 2, 15, 1, 2;.
19, 2, 25, 2; 19, 2; 39 ;"2-Gomez, Variae Resolutiones,. c. 3,
§§ 1-34, 18, 19; Gregorio Lopez, in 5 Partidas, tit. 8 111 8, 22;
Domat, Droit Civil, pt. 1, lib. 1, tit. 4, sect. 1, no. 1; sect. 3,
nos. 1, 3, 6;. Pothier, Contrat de Louage, nos." 3, 6, 11, 22, 53,
103, 106, 139-155.
It is accordingly laid down in the Pandects, on the author'ity of Julian, "if any one has let an estate, that, even if anything happens by vis major, he must make it good, he must
stand by his contract," si quis fundam locaveeit, ut, etiarnsi
quid vi majore accidisset, hoc ei p'Vesta'etur,.pacto standum?,
esee; Dig. 19, 2, 9, 2; and on the autliority of Ulpian, that
"a lease does not change the ownership," non "solet locatio
dominium mutare; Dig. 19, 2, 39; and that the lessee has a
right of action, if he cannot enjoy the thing which he has
hired, si re quam conduxit fai non liceat, whother because
his possession, either of the whole or of part of the field, is
not made good, or a house, or stable or sheepfold, is not
repaired; and the landlord ought to warrant the tenant,
dorninum colono prastare delere, against every irresistible
force, omnenz vim ewi i -eisti non potest, such as floods, flocks
of birds, or-any like cause, or invasion of enemies; and if the
whole crop should be destr6yed by a heavy rainfall, or the
olives should be spoiled by blight, or by extraordinary heat
of the sun, 8oli,8 fervore non assueto, it would be the loss o

the landlord, dxmnurrt domini futurum; and so if the field
falls in by an earthquake, for there must be made good to the
tenant a ficld that he can enjoy, oportere enirm agrunmprwestarl
conductori, ut frui possit; but if 'any loss arises from' defects
in the thing itself, si qua tamen vitia ex ipsa re oriantur,as if

wine turns sour, or standing cor;n is spoiled by worms or

OCTOBER TERV, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

weeds, or if nothing extraordinary happens, sivero nihil extra
eonsetudinen accident , it is the loss of the tenant, damnum
coloni esse. Dig. 19, 2, 15, 1, 2.
So Domat says: "If the tenant is expelled by the act of the
sovereign, by vis major, or by some other accident, or if the
property is destroyed by an inundation, by an earthquake, or
other event, the lessor, who was bound to give the property,
cannot demand the rent, and will be bound to restore so much
of it as he has received, but without- any other damages; for
no one ought to answer for accidents." Droit Civil, pt. 1,
lib. 1, tit. 4, sect. 3, no. 3.1
Poihier brings out the same principles more fully, as applicable to cases resembling the case at bar, saying: "When the
thing leased, which the lessor offers to deliver to the lessee, is
found not to be entire, the lessor having lost a part of it since
the contract, or when it is not in the same condition in which
it was at the time of the contract; when what ls wanting in
the thing, or when the change that has happened in the. thing,
is such that the lessee would not have been willing to hire this
thing, if it had been such as it has since become; in that case,
the lessee has the right to iefuse to receive the thing, and to
demand the annulment of the contract. This takes place,
even if it is by a 'vi major occurring since the contract,
that the thing is no longer entire,. or is, destroyed; as, for
example, if, since the contract, lightning has burned a considerable part of the house that you have, leased to me, and
the rest is not sufficient for me to dwell in with my family;
or, if a field, that you have leased to me, has been inundated
by an overflow of a river, which has left a hurtful deposit that
has spoiled the grass; but in this case I can only demand the
annulment of the bargain, without being able to claim any
damages for its non-execution." 2 Contrat de Lounage, no. '74.
1 "3. Si le preneur est expulsd par le fait du prince, par une force
majeure, ou par quelque autre cas fortuit, ou si 1'h6ritage p~rit par un
d~bordemnent, par un tremblement de terre, on autre 6v~nement, le bailleur,
qui 6tait tenu de donner le fonds, ne pourra pr~tcndre le prix du bail, et
sera terii de rendre ce qu'il en avalt reqn, mais sans aucun autre d~dommagement; car personne ne doit r~pondre des cas fortuits."
"74. Lorsque la chose lou6e, que le locateur ofgre de d~livrer an conducteur, ne se trouve pas entibre, le locateur en ayant perdu une partie depuis le

VITERBO v. FRIEDLANDER.
Opinion of the Court.

Again; after laying down the general principles that "the
tenant, lessee or farmer ought to have an abatement of the
whole rent, when the lessor has not been able to procure him
the enjoyment or the use of the thing leased;" and that "when
the tenant has not been absolutely deprived of the enjoyment
of the thing, but by an unforeseen accident.his enjoyment has
suffered a change and a very considerable diminution, he can
demand a proportionate diminution in the rent, during the
time that his enjoyment has suffered that diminution;" he
says that, according to these principles, "when by vis ma*or,
a farmer has been deprived of the power of gathering the
fruits of one ofthe years of his lease; as if an enemy has
ravaged all the standing corn on the land leased, or all the
fruits yet ungathered have been destroyed by an overflow of
a river, or by a swarm of locusts, or by any like accident; in
all these cases, the farmer ought to have an abatement of the
year's rent;" but that "the accident, which has caused a considerable loss of the fruits, must be an extraordinary accideitt,
and not one of those ordinary and frequent accidents which a
farmer ought to expect. For example, the tenant of a vineyard cannot demand an abatement of his rent for the lo-s
caused by frost, blight or hail, unless it was an extraordinary
frost or hail storm that caused the total loss of the fruits."'I
contrat, on lorsqu'elle ne se trouve pas al mmnie 6tat qu'ellc 6tait lors du
contrat; quand cc qui mauque de la chose, ou quand le chaugement, qui est
arriv6 duns la chose, est tel que le conducteur 'eait pas voulu prendre cette
chose A loyer, si elle se ffilt trouv6n toile qu'elle est devenue lepois; en ce
cas, le couducteur est bien fond6 Arefuser do recevoir la chose, et . demander
la r6solution du contrat. Cela a lieu, quand mGmie cc serait par une force
inajeure survenue depuis le contrat, quo la ohose ne so trouverait plus
entire, on so trouverait d6truite; comme, par exemple, si, depuis le coutrat,
?e feu du ciel avait brftlC une partie consid6rable de la maison quo vous
m'aviez lou6e, et que ce qui en reste ne ffitpas suffisant pour mn'y loger
avec ma famille; o s!une prairie,.que vous m'avie louse, avait W inod~e par un d~bordement de rivi~re, lequel y a laiss6 uun mauvais limon qui
en a gt6 l'horbc; rais, dans ce cas, Jo ne pourrais demander quo la r~solution du ni.rch6, sans pouvoir prdtendre aucuns dommages et int6rdts pour
son iwex6cution."
1 "PFnaiin PrrNcrPr.. Le conducteur, locataire on fermier, dolt avoir la
remise du loyer pour le tout, lorsque le locateur n'a pu lui procurer la jouissauce on l'usage de la chose louse."

OCTOBER' TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

Contrat de Louage, nos. 139-163. See also nos. 300, 4,77;
Introductioi aux Coutumes d'Orlans, tit. 19, nos. 17-22.
The Civil Code of Louisiana affirms the same general principles. A lease is defined to be a contract by which "one party
gives to the other the enjoynlent of a thing" at a fixed price.
.Art. 2669 (2639). "Ie who grants a lease is called the owner
or lessor. He to whom the ' lease-is made is called the lessee or
tenant." Art. 2677 (2647). "The lessor is bound, from the
very nature of the contract, and without -any clause to that
effect: 1. To deliver the thing -leased to the lessee. 2. To
maintain the thing in a bondition such as to serve for the use
for which it is ,hired. 3. To cause the lessee to be in peaceable possession of the thing during the continuance of the
lease." Art. 2692 (2662). "The lessor is bound to deliver
the thing in good condition and free from any repairs. He
ought to make, during the continuance of the lease, all the
rapairs which may accidentally become necessary, except those
which the tenant is bound to make, as hereafter directed."
Art. 2693 (2663). "The, lessor guarantees the lessee, against
all the vices and defects of the thing which may prevent its
being used," even if unknown to the lessor at the time of making the lease, or arising since, if they do not arise from the
fault of the lessee; and to*indemnify him for any loss result', Si ihim rnixcn'n. Lorsque le conducteur n'a pas 6t prIv6 absolume'4t
de la jouissance do la chose, mais que, par un accident impr~vu, sa jouissa- ce a souffert uue alteration et ine diminution trs" considerable, it peut
demander une diminution proportionn~e dans le loyer, depuis le temps que
s. jouissance a souffert cette diminution."
"153. Suivant les priucipes propos6s an paragraphe premier, lorsqunn
fermier a Wt6,par une force majeure, priv6 do pouvoir recueilir les fruits
de quelqu'uue des anndes de son bail; put4, si un parti ennemi a fourrag6
tons les bls cncorm en herbe de Ia terre qu'il tient & ferme, on si tous les
fruits, qui 6taient encore sur pied, out p6ri par une inoulation de rivire,
par un essaim de sauterelles, ou par quelque accident semblable; en tois
ces cas, le fermier doit avoir remise de I'ann6e de ferme."
"163. I1 faut que 'accident, qui a caus6 une perte considerable des fruits,
soit un accident extraordinaire, et non pas de ces accidents ordinaires et
fr~qnens auxquels un fermier dolt s'attendre. Par exemple, le fermier d'une
vigne ne doit pas demander une remise de sa ferme pour la perte qu'a
causde la gel&e, la coulure on la grle, 6, moins que cc no ffit une gelde
o une gr~le extraordinaire qui eft caus la perte totale des fruits."

VITERBO v. FRIEDLANDER.
Opinion df the Cont.

ing from them. Art. 2695 (2665). "The lessee is bound: 1.
To enjoy the thing leased as a good administrator, according
to the use for which it was intended by the lease. 2. To pay
the rent at the terms agreed on." Art. -2710 (2680). The
repairs which the tenant is bound to make are mere petty
repairs inside a house, and repairs of windows, including
"replacing window glass, when _broken accidentally; but not
when broken, either in whole or in their greatest part, by a
hail storm or by any other inevitable accident." Art. 2716
(2686). "The expenses of the repairs which unforeseen events
or decay may xender necessary must be supported by the
lessor, though such repairs be of the nature of those which are
usually done by-the lessee." Art. 2717 (2687). "The lessee
is Only liable for the injuries and losses sustained through his
own fault." Art. 2721 (2691). And the lease "is dissolved by
the loss of the thing leased." Art. 2728 (2699).
The above articles of the Codes of 1825 and 1870, with only
verbal differences, and in the same order, are all to be found
in the Louisiana Code of 1808,1 and all of them, (except that
which designates the parties, and the two last above quoted,
which are but repetitions or corollaries of the others,) in the
Code Napoleon ; 2 and the books, titles and chapters, under
which the various matters are arranged in the Code of 1808,
correspond for the most part to those of the Code Napoleon
of 1807, or Code Civil des Frangais of 1804, and still more
closely to those of the projet or commissioners' report of that
code, which had been published in 1801. 2 Discussions du
Code Civil, 536, note. Chief Justice Martin states that in
1807, when the first Civil Code of Louisiana was reported to
the territorial legislature by Moreau Lislet and Brown, no
copy of the French Code had as yet 'reached New Orleans;
"and the gentlemen availed themselves of the project of that
work, the arrangement of which tliey adopted, and mautatis
mutandis literally transcribed a considerable portion of it."
2 Mlartin's llistor- of Louisiana, 291. The provisions of the
laws of Spain, as they formerly existed in Louisiana, upon the
12 Louisiana Code of 1808, 1ib. 3, tit. 8, arts. 2, 6, 17-19, 26, 30, 31, 35, 40.
Code Napoleon, arts. 1709, 1719-1721, 1728, 1754t, 1755.

.OCTOBER TERl',

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

subject before us, were quite different in their details. Asso
and Manuel's Institutes, lib.' 2, tit. 14; 1 White's Land Laws,
201-204; 5 Partidas, tit. 8, 11.. 1, 4-4, 18-24; Schmidt's Lawof Spain and Mexico, 163-170. It is manifest, therefore, that
the language of these provisions of' the Louisiana Code was
-taken from the French Code.
The Codes of 1825 and 1870 also contain the followin-.
article:
"Art. 2697 (2667). If, during the lease, the thing be totally
destroyed by an unforeseen event, or if it be taken for a purpose of public utility; thb lease is at an end. If it be only
destroyed in part, the lessee may either demand a diminution
of the price, or a revocation of the lease. In neither case hs
he any claim for damages."'
This article was in a more condensed form in the Code of
1808, lib. 3, tit. 8, art. 20, namely: "If by any accident, the
thing leased should be either -totally or partly destroyed, the
lessee may, according to the nature of the case, either claim a
diminution of the rent or the cancelling of the lease, but he
cannot claim to be indemnified." 2
As it now stands, it has been restored to the very words of
the corresponding article 1722 of the Code Napoleon, except
in omitting the words " according to circumstances," suivant
les cironstaves,as affecting the claim of the lessee in the case
of partial-destruction, which were in that article, as well as in
the Code of 1808; and in inserting the words "or if it be
taken for a purpose of public utility," which were not expressed in the Code Napolebn, but would doubtless be implied,
for a taking of property for the public use was always deemed
1Also in French, in the Code of 1825- "Si, pendant la dur~e du bail, Ia
chose lou6e est d~truite en totalit6 par cas fortuit, on est prise pour un
objet d'utilit6 publique, le-bail est rdsi1i de plein droit. Si elle n'est
d6truite qu'en partie, le preneur a le choix de demander une diminution de
prix, ou la rdsiliation du bail. Dans Pun et l'autre cas, i1 n'y a lieu A
aucun ddclommagement."
2And in Feuch: "Si, pendant la dure6 du 'bail, la chose loue est
d6truite, en tout on en partie, par cas fortuit, le preneur pent, suivant les
circonstances, demander, on ine diminution du prix, ou la r~siliation du
bail; mais sans aucun autre dddommagement."

VITERBO v. FRIEDLANDER.
Opinion of the Court.

a species of destruction by vis maor'. Pothier, Contrat de
Louage, no. 65; 3 Duvergier, Droit Civil, no. 332.
The following article, not to be found in so many words in
the Code Napoleon, or in the Louisiana Code of 1808, first
appears in the Code of 1825: "Art. 2699 (2669). If, without any fault of the lessor, tho
thing cease to be fit for the purpose for which it was leased,
or if the use be much impeded, as if a neighbor, by raising his
walls, shall intercept the light of a house leased, the lessee
may, according to circumstances, obtain the annulment of the
lease, but has no claim for indemnity." '
But this article, too, only affirms a reasonable, if not necessary, construction of article 2697 (2667); for the lessor being
held to warrant that the lessee shall enjoy the property for
the use for which it was leased, any cause which makes his
enjoyment impossible has the same effect as if it destroyed
the property. This is clearly shown by Ulpian and by Pothier,
in the various passages above referred to: So Troplong says,
that if the vis majo" lets the thing exist in whole and in all
its parts, but prevents the lessee from taking or keeping the
enjoyment, this case does not come exactly within the letter
of article 1722 of the Code Napoleon; but the spirit should
give life to, the text, rais Zesprit doit venir vivifier le texte ;
and it is certain that this case of vi8 major would give an
opening for an annulment of the lease or an abatement of the
rent. Troplong, Droit Civil, no. 225. See'also 6 Marcad&,
450; Bowditch v. Heation, 22 La. Ann. 356. From the
eirliest times, also, the building up by a neighbor so as to
darken the lights of a house leased was helI to entitle'the
tenant tQ kelief. Dig. 19, 2, 25, 2; Domat, pt. 1, lib. 1, tit. 4,
sect. 3, no. 6; Pothier, Contrat de Louage, no. 325.
Under articles 2697 (2667) and 2699 (2669) of the Louisiana
Code, as under article 1722 of the Code Ifapoleon, it is not, of
1 And in French, in the Code of 1825: "Si la chose cesse, sans le falt du
bailleur. d'&re propre a l'usage pour lequel elle 6tait lou6e, ou si l'usage en
est devenu tr~s incommode, corume si Un voisin, en 6levant ses murs,
lntercepte les jours de la maison louse, le preneur peut,. suivant le cas,
obtenir la rsifiation du bail; mais i1 ne lui est di aucune indemnit6."

OCTOBER -TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court,

cours3, every-destruction of part of the thing leased, or injury
to its fitness for the use for which it was leased, by an unforeseen event or cas fortuit, that entitles the lessee to have the
lease annulled; and it is for the court to decide whether the
destruction or the injury is grave enough. But if by such an
event an important part of the property is destroyed, br the
property is made unfit for its destined use, the lessee has the
right to elect the annulment of the lease, and is not obliged
to be satisfied with an abatement of the rent. Troplong,
nos. 202, 213; 30 Dalloz, Louage, 'nos. 200-202;' 6 Marcad6,
448; 25 Laurent, IDroit Civil, arts. 402-404.
The learned counsel for the defendant much relied on some
dicta of Louisiana judges to the effect that the law of the
State does not favor the abrogation of a lease when the loss or
inconvenience is not caused by the fault of the lessor. Duesau v. Generis, 6 La. Ann. 279; Denman v. Zopez, 12 La.
Ann. 823; Fouclher v. (1qwopin, 17 La. Ann. 321; Penn v.
Kearny, 21 La. Ann. 21, 23. But such dicta cannot be understood as laying down a general rule, in opposition to the express words of articles 2697 (2667) and 2699 (2669) of the
Civil Code. The circumstances of each of the cases in which
they were uttered were quite different from those before us;
in two of them the injury or inconvenience was comparatively
unimportant; and in the other two thegtenant had not surrendered the lease, but remained in possession. In a later case
than any of these, which was one of partial destruction by fire
of a building in a city, the court held that under article 2697
(2667) the lessee, although he might, if he pleased, have the
rent abated, had a perfect right to elect to have the whole
lease annulled. Iiggins v. l7ilner, 26 La. Ann. 544.
All the articles, already cited, except perhaps those regarding tenant's repairs, clearly apply to farms and plantations as
well as to houses; for one of the first articles of the Louisiana
Code on the subject of leases declares, "The letting out of
things is of two kinds, to wit: 1. The letting out houses
and movables. 2. The letting out predial or country estates."
Art. 2676 (2646); Code of l 08, lib. 3, tit. 8, art. 4. And the
corresponding articles in the Code Napoleon, excepting the

VITERBO v. FRIEDLANDER.
Opinion of the Court.

introductory definitions, are placed under the heading "Of
the rules common to leases of houses and of rural property;"
those as to tenant's repairs being placed under the heading
"Of the rules peculiar to leases for hire," that is to say, of
houses and furniture.
The Louisiana Code of 1808, lib. 3, tit. 8, art. 54, as well as
each of the subsequent codes, contains the following article
relating to rural or predial estates oily:
"Art. 2743 (2714). The tenant of a predial estate cannot
claim an abatement of the rent, under the plea that, during
the lease, either the whole or a part of his crop has beendestroyed by accidents, unless tbse accidents be of such an
extraordinary nature that they could_not have been foreseen
by either of the parties at the time the contract was made,
such as the ravages of war extending over a country then at
peace, and where no person entertained any apprehension of
being exposed to invasion, or the like.
"But even in these cases, the loss suffered must have been
equal to the value of one half of the crop at least, to entitle
the tenant to an abatement of the rent.
"The tenant has no right to an: abatement, if it is stipulated
in the contract that the tenant shall ruli all the chances of all
foreseen and unforeseen accidents." 1
To this the following article was added in the Code of 1825;.,
"Art. 2744 (2715). The tenant- cannot obtain an abatement,
when the loss of the fruit takes place after its separation from
the earth, unless the lease give to the proprietor a portion of
1 And in French, in the Codes of 1808 and 1825:

"Le

fermier d'un bien rural ou de campagne ne peut obtenir aucune

remise sur le prix du bail sous pr~texte que, pendant la dur6e de son bail,la
totalit, on partie de sa r6colte, li aurait W6 enlev6e par des cas fortuits,
si ce n'est que ces cas fortuits fussent d'une nature extraordinaire, et doni
1'6v6uement n'a pu raisonnablement Gtre pr~vu, on suppos6 par les parties,
lors di coutrat, tels que les ravages de ]a guerre an milieu d'un pays qui
6tait en paix, et o l'on devait se croire naturellement . l'abri de tout(invasion, et autres cas semblables.
"Encore, pour obtenir cette remise, faut-il que la perte 6prouv~e soit alr
moins de la moiti6 de la r~colte, et que le preueur ne soit pas charg6 par le
bail de tons les cas pr6vus ou impr6vus."

VOL. cxx-46

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

the crop ii kind; in which case the proprietor ought to bear
his share of the loss, provided the tenant has committed no
unreasonable delay in delivering his portion of the crop." 1
These articles take the place of several articles contained in
the Code Napoleon, under the heading "Of the rules peculiar
to leases of rural property," of which the following is a translation: 2

"1'769. If the lease is made for seyeral years, and if, during
the continuance of the lease, the whole or at least the half of
a crop is destroyed by accidents, the tenant may demand an
abatement of the rent, unless he is indemnified by the preceding harvests. If he is not indemnified, the estimate of the
abatement can only take place at the end of the lease, at which
time an account is taken of all the years of enjoyment; and
nevertheless the judge may provisionally relieve the tenant
from paying a part of the rent, by reason of the loss suffered.
'1IM7 . If the lease is only for one year, and the loss is of
the whole of the fruits, or at least of the half, the tenant shall
1 And in French: "Le fermier ne peut obtenir de remise, lorsque la perte
des fruits arrive apr~s qu'ils sont s6pa'r~s de la terre, A moims que le bail ne
donne an propri6tai e une. quotit6 de la rdcolte en nature; auquel cas le
propri'taire doit supporter sa part de la perte, pourvu que le preneur ne fut
pas en demeure de lui d6livrer sa portion de rtcolte."
2 The original text is as follows:
"1769. Si le bail est fait pour plusieurs ann6es, et que, pendant ]a durde
du bail, la totalit6 ou la moiti6 d'une r6colte au moins soit enlevde par des
cas fortuits, le fermier peut demander une remise du prix de sa location, A
moins qu'il ne soit indemuisd par les r~coltes prdcedeutes. S'il n'est pas
indemnis6, l'estimation de la remise ne peut avoir lieu qu'A ]a flu du bail,
auquel temps il se fait une compensation de toutes les anuucs de jouissance; et cependant le Juge pent provisoirement dispenser le preneur de
payer une partie du prix, en raison de ]a perte soufferte.
"1770. Si le bail n'est que d'une ann6e, et que ]a perte soit de la totalit6
des fruits, on an mois de la moitiC, le preneur sera dicharg6 d'une partie
proportionnelle du prix de la location. I1 ne pourra pr6tendre aucune
remise, si la perte est moindre de taoitl6.
"1771. Le fermier ne pent obtenir de remise, lorsque la perte des fruits
arrive ,prs qu'ils sont s6par~s de la terre, & moins que le bail ne donne an
pr6priatire une quotit6 de la r~colte en nature; auquel cas le propriftaire
dolt supporter sa part de ]a perte, pourvu "que le preneur ne fit pas en
demeure de lui de'ivrer sa portion de f:colte. Le fermier ne peut 6gale-

VITERBO v. FRIEDLANDER.
Opinion of the Court.

be discharged from a proportional part of the rent. He cannot claim any abatement, if the loss is less than half.

"1771.

The tenant cannot obtain an abatement, when the

loss of the fruits takes place after they are severed from the
land, unless the lease gives to the landlord a portion of the
crop in kind; in which case the landlord ought to bear .his
part of the loss, provided the tenant has not been guilty of
unreasonable delay in delivering to him his portion of crop.
Likewise, the tenant cannot demand an abatement, when the
cause of the damage was in existence and known at the time
when the lease was made.
"1772. The tenant may be charged with accidents by an
express stipulation.
"1773. That stipulation is understood of ordinary accidents
only, such as hail, lightning, frost or blight. It is not understood of extraordinary accidents, such as the ravages of war,
or an inundation, to which the country is not ordinarily subject, unless the lessee has been charged with all accidents,
foreseen or not foreseen."
The last clause of article 2743 (2714) of the Louisiana Code
was evidently taken from articles 1772 and 1773 of the Code
Napoleon. The rest of the article was apparently derived
from the view expressed by Pothier in his Contrat de Louage,
no. 163, above quoted, which, as has been pointed out by the
commentators on the Code INapoleon, was rejected by the
framers of that code. Troplong, no. 710; 4 Duvergier, no.
183; 9 Duranton, 261. And article 2744 (2715) is copied word
for word from so much of article 1771 of the Code i apoleon.
The decision of the present case mainly depends upon the
true construction of articles 2697 (2667) and 2609 (2669) taken
ment demander une remise, lorsque Ia cause dat dommage 6tait existante et
connue . l'Npoque ofi le bail a &4 pass6.
" 1772. Le preneur peut Gtre charg6 des cas fortuits par une stipulation
expresse.
"1773. Cette stipulation ne s'entend que des cas fortuits ordinaires, tels
que grle, feu du ciel, gele ou coulure. Elle ne s'entend pas des cas fortuits extraordinaires, tels que les ravages de Ia guerre, ot une inondation,
auxquels le pays n'cst pas ordinairement sujet, ih moins que le preneur n'ait
6tW charg6 de tous les cas fortuits, pr6vus ou impr'vus."

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

in connection with article 2743 (2714) of the Civil Code of
Louisiina. But before proceeding to the particular examinati6n of these articles, some other general considerations should
be adverted to.
The ordinary rules of interpretation of statutes are applicabld to the Touisiana Code.
The Code itself lays down as rules for "the application and
construction of laws," that "where the words of a law are
dubious, their meaning may be soughtby examining the context, with which the ambiguous words, phrases and sentences
may be compared, in order to ascertain their true meaning ;"
that "laws in jTari materia, or. upon the same subject matter,
must be con--trued with a reference to each other; what is
clear in one statute may be called in aid to explain what is
doubtful in another;" and that "the most universal and effectual way of discovering the true meaning of a law, when
its expressions are dubious, is by considering the reason and
spirit of it, or the cause which induced the legislature to enact
it." Arts. 16-18 (16-18); Code of 1808, prel. tit. arts. 16-18.
In the same spirit Chief Justice Eustis said: "A statute must
be construed with reference to its 6bject, to the legislation and
system of which it forms a part, in order to ascertain its true
meaning and intent; and if its purpose and well ascertained
object are inconsistent with the precise words of a part, the
latter must yield to the paramount and controlling influence of
the will of the legislature resulting from the whole." Con?rnercialBank v. Foster, 5 La. Ann. 51 6, 517T. And in MTkilders
v. J'ohnson, 6 La. Ann. 634, 638, the court said: -It is a sound
rule of interpretation, in construing an article of the Code with
reference to a subject matter, to take into view the general
system of legislation upon the subject matter, contained in the
same work; and where a provision of the Code is invoked in
derogation of the common rule regulating the subject matter,
the intention so to dcrogate should be clear and beyond reasonable doubt. If an interpretation can be given to the particular
artiole, which, without doing violence to its terms, will make it
harmonize with the general rules and the other provisions of
the Code regulating the subject matter, such interpretation
should be adopted."

VITERBO v. FRIEDLANDER.
Opinion of the Court.

It is to be remembered that the Louisiaiia. Code,-as it was
originally enacted in 1808, and as it was again promulgated.in
1825, and remained in force until 1870, was in French as well
as in English. The Code of 1808, enacted before the admission
of the State of Louisiana into the Union, was entitled "A Digest
of the Civil Laws now in force in the Territory of Orleans, with
alterations and amendments adapted to its present system of
government;" and the act of March 31, 1808, c. 29, declaring
and proclaiming it to be in force in that territory, was published in both languages, and provided that "if, in any of the
dispositions contained in the said digest, there should be found
any obscurity or ambiguity, fault or omission, both the English
and French texts shall be consulted, and shall mutually serve
to the interpretation of [the] one and the other." 1 2 Martins"
Digest, 98, 99.
The Constitution of the State of Louisiana, ever since its
admission into the Union, has provided that all laws shall be
promulgated in the language in which the Constitution of the
United States is written. Constitutions of 1812, art. 6, § 15;
1845, art. 103; 1852, art. 100; 1864, art. 103; 1868, art. 103.
The constitutions of 1845 and 1852 also contained provisions,
that "the secretary of the senate and clerk of the house of
representatives shall b'-conversant with the French and English languages, and members may address either house in the
French or English language;" that "the Constitution and
laws of this state shall be promulgated in the English and
French languages;" and that any amendment of the Constitution, proposed by the legislature, should be published in French
and English before being submitted to the vote of the people.
Constitutions of 1845, arts. 104, 132, 140; 1852, arts. 101, 129,
141. These provisions were omitted in the constitutions of
18641 and 1868; and the Code of 1870 was promulgated in
English only.
But it is a familiar canon of interpretation, that all former
I In French: "Si, dans quelqu'une des dispositions contenue daus ledit
digeste, it se trouve qLielque obscurit6 ou ambiguit6, ou quelque faute on
omission, les deux textes Anglais et Frangais seront consult~s pour s'iuterpr6ter mutuellement."

OaTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opiion of th% Court.

statutes on the same subject, whether repealed or unrepealed,
may be considered in construing the provisions that remain in
force. Bank for Savings v. Collector, 3 Wall. 495; Ex parte
Crow .Dog, 109 U. S. 556, 561. The reasons are no less strong
for -referring to former statutes, embodied in a code of laws, to
aid in the interpretation of that code. Bank of L-ouisiana v.
:Farra',1 La. Ann. 49, 54; United States v. Bowen, 100 U. S.
508, 513; Xyer v. Car Co., 102 U. S. 1, 11; fTfortkern Pacifw
Railroadv. Herbert, 116 U. S. 642; Baldwin v. FraNs, ante,
678. And the Supreme Court of Louisiana has always held that
in construing those parts of the Code which regnact provisions
originally enacted in both languages, both texts may be taken
into consideration to aid in ascertaining their meaning as parts
of one lawr; and obscurities or ambiguities in the English. text
have often been cleared up by referring to the greater precision
of the French text; although, if the two texts cannot be reconciled, the English must prevail. Hudson v. Grieve, I Martin,
143; State v. Dupuy, 2 Martin, 177; Breedlove v. Turner, 9
Martin, 353; Ohretien v. Theard, 2 Martin (N. S.) 582; Borel
v. Borel, 3 Louisiana, 30; Dumford v. Clarks Estate,3 Louis-,
iana, 199, 202; State v. .Moore, 8 Rob. La. 518; State v. .Mix,
8 Rob. La. 549; State v. Ei8,12 La. Ann. 390; State v. Judge
of Eighth District Court,22 La. Ann. 581 ; Lafourche v. Terrebonne, 34: La. Ann. 1230, 1233.
This accords with the judgment of this court in a case arising under the treaty of 1819, by which Spain ceded Florida to
the United States, which was drawn-up in Spanish as well as
in English; the English part declaring that grants of lands
previously made by the king of Spain "shall be ratified and
confirmed to the persons in possession;" and the corresponding clause of the Spanish part declaring that such grants
"shall remain ratified and confirmned" to the persons in possession. 8 Stat. 258, 259. Chief Justice Marshall said: "The treaty
was drawn up in the Spanish as well as in the English language. Both are originals, and were unquestionably intended
by the parties to be identical." "If the English and the Spanish paits can, without violence, be made to agree, that construction which establishes this conformity ought to prevail

VITERBO v. FRIEDLANDER.
Opinion of the Court.

If, as we think must be admitted, the security of private property was intended by the parties; if this security would have
beehL complete without the article, the United States could have
no motive for insisting on the interposition of the government
in order to give validity to the titles which, according to the
usages of the civilized world, were already valid. 1o violence
is done to the language of the treaty by a construction which
conforms the English and Spanish to each other. Although
the words ' shall be ratified and confirmed '-ire properly the
words of contract, stipulating for some future legislative act;
they are not necessarily so. They may import that they ' shall
be ratified and confirmed'by the force of the instrument itself.
When we obsetve that in the counterpart of the same treaty,
executed at the same time by the same parties; they are used
in'this sense, we think the construction proper, if not unavoidable." United States v. Percheman, I Pet. 51, 88, 89.
Upon a comparison of the English text with the French of
so much of the Louisiana Code as bears upon this case, the
greater uniformity and precision of the French text, and its
striking resemblance to the Code Napoleon, make it quite clear
that the French is the original and the English the translation.'
Moreover, in the concluding article 3556 (3522) of verbal definitions, the French words in the Code of 1825 are arranged
alphabetically, with the English equivalent opposite each one,
regardless of its own alphabetical order. In the French col8ar
umn. " Cas fortuits" are defined as "Ev'nemens occaion&
une force d laguelle on ne peut _ap resister," or events caused
by a force that one cannot resist; opposite to which in the
English column is, "Fortuitous event is that which happens by
a cause which we cannot resist." But on turning back to the
other articles, we find the French "ca s fortuit" rendered in
English in various ways; as "unforeseen event," ' as ", unfore3
,seen accident," 2 as "fortuitous event," as "fortuitous accident," 4 as "accident," 5 and as "chance." 6 In one place, "ceza
fartuit ou force majeure" is rendered "fortuitous event or
IArt. (2667).
2Art. (2756).
4Arts. (2290) (2445) (2511).

4

Art. (2216).
6Arts. (2714) (563).
6 Arts. (571) (2870) (2871) (2872).

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

irresistible force," ' and in another, "accidental and uncontrollable events; "2 thus treating the two alternative expressions
as synonymous. In the concluding article, also, "Force" is
defined, both in French and in English, as "the effect of a
power which cannot be resisted;" and "Force m6yewre," vis
major, as "un11fait, un accident que la prudence humaine ne
peut niprevoir emp2cher,"
pi
or a fact or accident which human

prudence can neither foresee nor prevent -- with a corresponding definition of the English equivalent, "1Superior force."
"_Force majeure" is also rendered in different places

"

unfore-

seen events," 3 "overpowering force," 4 and "force," § only;
"J)v nenent deforce iatyeure " as "accident ;" 6 and " a ccidens
de force maje ae" as "inevitable accident."! It cannot, be
doubted, therefore, that the words "unforeseen event" and
"accident," as used in the articles now under consideration,
have the meaning of "fortuitous event " or "irresistible
force."
The Louisiana Code, following the French law and the Code
Napoleon, recognizes two kinds or degrees of what, under various but equivalent names, has been called vis major,casfortuit,
irresistible force, inevitable accident, or unforeseen event; the
one, ordinary, which might have been foreseen by any man of
common prudence as not unlikely to happen at some time;
the other, extraordinary, which could not have been foreseen,
or expected to occur at any time. The distinction is clearly
stated by Domat, and more fully brought out by the commentators on the Code Napoleon; and, as those commentators
have clearly shown, the words "prvus ou imprivuq," as used
in speaking of express stipulations by the tenant, literally,
"foreseen or unforeseen," respectively mean in this connection
those -which could have been foreseen as likely to happen, and
those which could not have been so foreseen. Domat, pt. 1,
lib. 1, tit. 4, sect. 4, no. 6; Troplong, nos. 204, 211, 756; 4
]Duvergier, no. 182; 6 Alarcad&, 508. The concurrent opinions
of the French jurists upon the meaning of the French Oode
are of the greatest weight in the interpretation of similar pro' Art. (1927).
2Art. (2725).

3Art. (2687).
4

Art. (2910).

5 Art. (2917).

6 Art. (783).

7 Art. (2686).

VITERBO v. FRIEDLANDER.

729

Opinion of'the Court.

visions in the Code of Louisiana. Johnson v. Bloodworth, 12
La. Ann. 699,701.
The general purpose and the common rule of the civil law,
as expressed in the Code of Louisiana, are that the lessor shall
secure to the lessee the possession, use and enjoyment of the
thing leased, against everything but the fault of the latter;
and that any loss of the thing, or deprivation-of its use or
enjoyment, by accidents or fortuitous events, shall be borne by,
the lessor and not by the lessee. This appears from th6 general provisions in the articles above quoted, by which the
lessor is bound, from the very nature of the contract of lease,
and without any clause to that effect, not only to deliver the
thing leased to the lessee, but also to maintain it in such a
condition as to serve the purpose for which it is leased, to
cause the lessee to be in peaceable possession of the thing during the continuance of the lease, to make, during its continuance, all repairs, except, some petty internal ones, and to make
even those when rendered necessary by unforeseen events; as
well as by articles 2697 (2667) and 2699 (2669), which apply
both to country estates and to town houses, and entitle the
lessee, whenever by a fortuitous event, and without his fault,'
the thing is either destroyed, or ceases to be fit for the'purpose
for which it has been leased, or its use is much impeded, to
demand the annulment of the lease, and if it is only destroyed
in part, to demand either a revocation of the lease or a diminution of the rent.
Article 2743 (2714) is in derogation of this general purpose
and common rule, and is therefore to be strictly construed.
A comparison of the language of articles 2697 (2"667) and
2699 (2669) with that of article 2743 (2714) discloses substantial differences between the former and the latter, in the cause
of injury, in the thing injured, and in the form of relief, of
which they speak. It will be convenient to' consider these
three points of difference in the inverse order.
First. As to the form of relief: Articles 2697 (2667) and
2699 (2669) deal wholly with the ending, revocation or annulment of the lease, except that in the case of a partial destruction of the thing leased the alternative of a diminution of rent

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

is permitt.ed. But article 2743 (2714) relates to the abatement
of rent only, and does not affect the right of the lessee to have
the lease annulled.
The case of a tenant demanding an abatement of rent, while
retaining his lease, and thereby reserving the opportunity of
reaping profits during the rest of the term, stands on quite
different ground from the case of a tenant seeking to annul
the lease, and thus to -give up all prospective benefits at the
same -time that he is relieved from all burdens.
Second. The injuries spoken of in articles 2697 (2667) and
2699 (2669) are the total or partial destruction of the thing
leased, or its ceasing to be fit for the purpose for which it was
leased. But article 2743 (2714) is limited to a destruction of
the crop only.
There is no doubt that by the civil law, as by the common
law, crops, so long as they are standing and ungathered, are
part of the land to which they are attached; Louisiana Code,
art. 465 (456); Code of 1808, lib. 2, tit. 1, art. 17; Code iNapoleon, art. 520; Pothier, de la Communaut6, no. 45. In
strictness of principle, the title of the standing crops, as of the
land on which they stand, would be in the landlord, and a destruction of the crops might have been considered as a partial
destruction of the land itself, within article 2697 (2667).of the
Louisiana Code, and article 1722 of the Code Napoleon, if no
special provision as to the crops had been added; and such
was the opinion of Troplong. Troplong, nos. 695-697. On
the other-hand, it might be considerdd that as the lessor only
warranted to the tenant the enjoyment of the thing leased,
that is to say, the possibility of enjoying it, and did not warrant to him the fruits of the enjoyment, a destruction of the
crops only, not injuring the capacity of the land to produce
bther crops, ought not to considered as a destruction or injury
of the thing leased. 25 Laurent,. no. 455. The framers of
either code have solved the difficulty by making special provisions with relation to the loss of a crop by fortuitous evEnts,
without otherwise modifying the previous articles which establish the rules applicable to a destruction, by such events, of
the property itself, or of its capacity for the use for which it

VITERBO v. FRIEDLANDER.
Opinion of the Court.

was leased. One of the principal commentators on the Code
Napoleon. after stating the well established construction, above
mentioned, that a general stipulation by the tenant against
accidents is to be understood of ordinary, and not of extraordinary accidents, says that for the same reason if the tenant
,assumes the risk, either of ordinary accidents, or of all accidents whatsoever even if extraordinary;he must be understood
(unless a different intention is clearly manifested)- to stipulate
against accidents causing a loss of the- crops only, and not
against those which deprive him of the use and enjoyment of
the property itself. 6 Marcad6, 508.
Third.' The contingencies guarded against in articles- 2697
(2667) and 2699 (2669) include any unforeseen event, (npeaning
thereby, as we have seen, any fortuitous event or irresistible
force,). whether ordinary or extraordinary, one that might
have been foreseen, as well as one that could not ha- been
foreseen. But in article 2743 (2714) the only accidents relieved against are those "of such an extraordinary nature that
they could not have been foreseen by either of the parties at
the time the contract was made."
Under this article, the Supreme Court of Louisiana in 1861
refused to allow to the tenant of a predial estate an abatement
of the stipulated rent, on account of the destruction of his crop
by an overflow of the Mississippi River, and gave the following reasons for the decision: "The overflow of the Mississippi
River is of such frequent occurrence, that it cannot be -regarded'
as belonging tcf that class of extraordinary and unforeseen accidents which entitle the tenant of a predial estate to an abatement of ient. Indeed, the overflows of this river are so frequent, that a system of levees has been constructed under the
authority of the State, for the purpose of preventing, we may
say, the annual inundation of its banks; and so frequently
have the waters of this river made breaches in the levees, that
even a crevasse itself cannot be considered as an extraordinary
accident in the sense, of article 2714 of the code, and as such
entitle the tenant of a predial estate to a reduction of the
stipulated rent, although such crevasse should be the means of
overflowing the land leased by the tenant, and thereby de-

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

stroying a part or the whole of his crop. The periodical overflow of the waters of a river is not an extraordinary accident;
and if a party seeks to give to an inundation that character,
he must show that it was unusual, unforeseen, and one to
which the country was not ordinarily subjected. See Troplong, du Louage, nos. 207, 211. The frequency of overflows
and crevasses on the Mississippi River is not' disputed in this
case, but is, on the other hand, sufficiently established by' the
evidence." Vinso v. Graves, 16 'La. Ann. 162. That decision has since been followed, without further discussion.
.afasson v. Xurray, 21 La. Ann. 535; Jacson v. Aftichie, 33
La. Ann. 723.
But the utmost extent of those decisions is, that neither an
overflow of the Mississippi River, nor even a crevasse, is an
" extraordinary and unforeseen accident," for a destruction of
a crop caused by which the tenant can have an abatement of
rent under article 2743 (2714). That the court did not intend
to imply, tliat such an overflow or crevasse was not 4n unforeseen accident at all, clearly appears by the carefully guarded
language of the opinion in Vinson v." Graves, as well as by
the reference in that opinion to the passages of Troplong in
which the violence of a river leaving its bed is classed, with
earthquakes and extraordinary snows or rains, as a ca.fortuit,
and is distinguished from the usual rains and snows, and risings
of rivers, which necessarily occur in the order of the seasons,
and the view of earlier jurists is approved, which divides accidents into accustomed and unaccustomed, ordinary and extraordinary. Troplong, nos. 206, 207, 211. - The civilians generally class an inundation under vis mqjor or casfortui . Ulpian
and Domat, ubi supra; 5 Partidas, tit. 8,1. 22; 4 Duvergier,
no. 183 ; 9 Duranton, 261. And TPothier, in a passage already
quoted, states the case of the overflow of a field by a river,
leaving a deposit that spoils the grass, as one of those in which
the tenant is entitled to have the lease annulled. Contrat de
Lounage, no. 74.
The annual rise and overflow of a river may doubtless in
some countries and places be considered as one of the things
,that necessarily occur in the order ?f the seasons. But the

VITERBO v. FRIEDLANDER.
Opiuion of the Court.

bursting of a river through its natural banks or through artificial dikes must generally be regarded as an accident or eas
fortuit, ordinary or extraordinary, according to the frequency
or infrequency with which it takes place in the tract of country in question. In France, " an inundation, to which the country is not ordinarily subject," is expressly ranged, in article
1773 of the Code Napoleon, before quoted, with the ravages
of war, under extraordinary accidents, cas fortuits extraordinaires. In Louisiana, the breaking of the Mississippi through
the levees occuis so often that it is held not to be an extraordinary accident; but that does not take it out of the general
class of accidents or unforeseen events, casfortuits.
The breaking of a crevasse in the Louisiana levees by the
waters of the Mississippi River, causing a plantation to be
overflQwed, must therefore be considered as a cas fortuit, a
fortuitous or unforeseen event, within the meaning and scope
of articles 2697 (2667) and 2699 (2669), entitling the lessee, if,
thereby the plantation is wholly or.partly destroyed, or is rendered unfit for the purpose for which it was leased, to have
the lease annulled; although it is not a cas fortuit extraordinaire, an extraordinary as 'well as an unforeseen accident,
within the meaning of article 2743 (2714), so as to justify an
abatement of rent if the crop only is destroyed.
In the case at bar, the thing leased is a sugar plantation,
with the buildings, mules and implements necessary for the
cultivation and making of sugar, and the growing crop of
sugar cane. This crop is not sold to the lessee absolutely, with
the right to use and conisume it as he pleases; but it is leased
to him as part of the plantation, and to be replanted on the
plantation as seed cane; and he expressly binds himself to do
this, as well as, by way of reimbursing the lessor for this cane,
to leave a certain amount of growing cane bn the plantation
at the end of the lease. These stipulations as to the growing
cane'leased with the plantation, and the growing cane to be
left on the plantation at the end of the lease, do not constitute
a separate contract of exchange of one thing for another, under
article 2660 (2630) of the Louisiana Code; or a letting of moveables, or of things which cannot be used without being destroyed

' 73d:

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

by the use, within the meaning of article 2678 (2648); or a payment of rent in a portion of the crop, under articre 2671 (2641).
But they are parts and incidents of the principal contract of
lease into which the parties have entered; and that -contraot
is the lease of one entire thing, a sugar plantation, with g'owing cane upon it, and otherwise fit for the cultivation of sugar,
to be used and enjoyed as such by the lessee until the end of
the lease, and then to be returned by him to the lessor in like
condition, barring such accidents as may excuse the lessee from
the performance of the contract on his part.
The material facts regarding the cultivation of sugar cane,
as appearing by the evidence returned with the master. report,
are these: Sugar cane is propagated by cutting standing cane
and planting it as seed cane. The cane so cut from one acre
will plant not more than three acres. The plants that spring
up from the seed cane are called plant cane; the roots from
which cane has been cut are called stubble; and the shoots
which spring up in the following years from those roots are
called ratoons (rejetons), and are cut for sugar in the two years
succeeding the first cutting, after which it is usual to plant the
ground anew.
It also-appears that the plaintiff at once performed the obligation, expressly assumed by him in the lease, of cutting the
standing cane leased to him with the plantation, and planting
it as seed cane; and that, when this cane wat a little above
the ground, the inundation took place, the facts concernihg
which, as stated in the master's report, were as follows:
The lessee, upon entering into possession under the lease, in
the autumn of 1883, found the plantation in bad condition for
want of proper drainage, and, in order to prepare the ground
for the cultivation of sugar, dug a new canal and enlarged
and deepened the ditches. Early in the spring of 1884, the,
Mississippi River mad& a crevasse in the levees opposite a
neighboring plantation, and the waters coming through the
crevasse overflowed the plantation leased. By reason of the
overflow, the lessee lost the entire crop of sugar cane of 1884,
the two hundred acres of stubble cane and eighty-five acres of
plant cane were destroyed, the canals and ditches were par-

VITERBO v. FRIEDLANDER.
Opinion of the Court.

tially, and in some places wholly, filled up, and. the bridges
generally swept away. The whole plantatioi remained under
water for three moniths; and wheh the waters went down,
they left a deposit of from three to six inches in depth. To
put the plantation in the condition in which it'was at the time
of the crevasse, and to fit it for cultivation as a sugar plantation in 1885, would require the canals to be oponed or cleaned
out, ditches tb be redug, the bridges replaced, and seed cane
to be obtained, all at considerable expense.
Upon comparing the master's report with the evidence taken
in the case, the above appears to be a fair statement of the
material facts, except that the master wQuld seem to have
overstated the number of acres of stubble cane, and understated the number of acres of plant cane; but that is immaterial, since there is no question of the whole amount of cane
destroyed, or of its having been all the cane on the plantation.
But we cannot concur in the conclusions of the master and
of the Circuit Court, that the property was neither destroyed,
nor rendered unfit for the purpose for which it was leased;
that the loss of the growing crop and the injuries to the plantation were not caused by an "unforeseen event;" and that
the plaintiff was not entitled to relief. As the case is on the
equity side of the court, it is not important to consider how
far those conclusi6ns involved inferences of fact, and how far
they consisted of matter of law.
The object of this suit is not to obtain an abatement of rent,
under article 2743 (2714) of the Civil Code of Louisiana, on
account of the destruction of the crop; but it is to have the
lease annulled, unde'r articles 2697 (2667) and 2699 (2669),
because the plantation has been destroyed or rendered unfit
for the purpose for which it was leased.
That the breaking in and overflow of the waters of the Mississippi River was a fortuitous and unforeseen event, within
the meaning of these articles, necessarily results from the
reasons already stated, which need not be recapitulated. The
remaining question is whether that event destroyed the thing
leased, or rendered it unfit for the purpose for which it was
leased. This .question lies in smaller compass.

OQTOBER TERAI, 1886.
Opiniou of the Court.

The plaintiff had hardly put the plaitation in a condition
suitable for the cultivation of sugar cane, which was the sole,
purpose of the lease, and planted one crop, when the inundation came, putting the plantation under water for three months,
filling up the canals and ditches necessary for its drainage,
sweeping away the bridges, and leaving a deposit from three
necesto six inches deep over the whole land, and making 'it
sary, in order to cultivate the thing leased as a sugar plantation the following year, to spend large sums of money to open
and dig out canals and ditches and replace bridges; and also
destroying all the stubble cane as well as all the plant cane,
and leaving the plantation without any cane upon it, either to
make sugar of, or to cut seed cane from for planting in suc.ceeding yearg
In short, the inundation left the thing leased in such a condition, that it was unfit for the purpose of a sugar plantation,
for which it had been leased, and could not be made fit for
that purpose without spending large, sums of money to restore
it to a condition fit for the cultivation of sugar cane, and to
obtain seed cane elsewhere to start it afresh. It not only
destroyed the whole crop for the year 188-, but it destroyed
the plants which would otherwise have produced, both in that
year and afterwards, cane for making sugar, as well as what
was needed for seed cane, and-destroyed the entire capacity
of the plantation to grow cane and make sugar, until it should
be restored to a condition fit for cultivation and planted anew.
This wds not a mere destruction of a crop for one year, like
the destruction of a crop of wheat, or of grapes, or of apples;
but it was more like the destruction of the vines, or of the
apple trees, from which present and future crops are to be
gathered.
Upon the whole case, we are of opinion that the lease being
of a sugar plantation for the purpose of being used to cultivate
sugar cane, the Injuries proved to the plantation, and to its
capacity for producing cane and sugar, amounted to a partial
destruction of the plantation, or, what is the same thing in
legal effect, to making it cease to be fit for the purpose for
which it was leased; that those injuries were caused by a for-

EX PARTE PARKER,

737

&labus.

tuitous or unforeseen evellt and that under articles 2697 (2667)
and 2699 (2669) of the, Civil Code, construed in the light of'
the other articles that we have cited, and of the priciples bf
the civil law, as eslablished: in Louisiana, the plaintiff was
entitled to have the lease annulled. The decree of the court
be'low dismissing the bill must therefore be reversed; and any
equities of the parties which should affect the form of the
decree may more conveniently be dealt with in that court.
)ecree eversqed, and case remanded to the Circuit Court with
directions to take su hfurther roceedings therein as may
be in conformity with law, and not inconsistent with the

opinirn of this court.

EX PARTE PARKER.
ORIGINAL.
Argued March 7, 1887.-Decided March 21,1887.

A statute of Washin'gton.Territory enacts that "1a part of severAl co-parties
may appeal or prosecute a writ of error; but in such case they must
serve notice thereof upon all the other parties." One of two defendants
in a cause served upon the other written notice, entitled in the cause,'
that'he would, on a day therein named, "Ille a notice of appeal and staybond, and appeal said cause," and added, "You are herewith requested to'
join in said appe!al." The other defendant answered in writing, " I hereby
accept service of the above u6tice," "and decline to join in an appeal in
said cause." Held, that this was an exact and effectual compliance with
the provision of the statute.
A statute of Vashington Territory relating to appeals provides that "in anaction by equitable proceedings, tried upon written testimony, the depositions and all papers which were used as evidence are to be certified up
t in
to the Supreme Court, and shall be so certified, not by transcript,
the original form: but a transcript of a motion, affidavit, or other .per,
when it relates to a collateral matter, shall not be certified unle 6 by
direction of the appellant." In an appeal in equitythe appellant requ -sted
the clerk to "t1ransmit to the Supreme Court all the papers filed in this
VOL. cxx-47

