OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

the terms or legal effect of his engagement; and when that
has respect to theconduct or fidelity of the principal, or to

any other matter usually contemplated as arising in the future,
'it is to be interpreted prospectively, and not retrospectively.
But if, from the nature of the case, the subject of guaranty
is a past transaction in whole or in part, aid the language of
the engagement, taken in its natural sense or legal effect, is
broad enough to cover it, such language may properly be
construed to do so.
As to the power of a court of equity to impose any terms
in its discretion as a condition of granting or continuing an
injulnction, there can be no question. This subject is considered in the case of Pussell v. Farley, 105 U. S. 433.
We see no error in the judgments of the Supreme Court
of Louisiana in these cases, and they are affirmed, with costs.
Affirmned.

UNITED STATES v. RAMSAY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Submitted December 20, 1838.- Decided January 17, 18S7.

On the 29th April, 187i, A gave notice to a collector of internal revenue of
frauds upon the revenue by a railroad company, whereby it had become
liable to penalties. In consequence of this information an action was
commenced for the recovery of the penalties, which resulted in a compromise in June, 1874, and the payment of a sum by the company in discharge of its liability. A applied for the informer's share of this sum
under the provisions of § 179, act of June 30, 1864, 13 Stat. 305,'as amended
by the act of July 13, 1866, 14 Stat. 145. It was conceded that A was
the informei as clahned, and that he was entitled to the amount claimed,
if-the duty and power to make the payment were not taken away by § 39
of the act of June 6, 1872, 17 Stat. 256. repealing those previous provisions. :Payment was refused at the treasury, whereupon claimant brought
suit in the Court of Claims, and obtained judgment for the recovery of Ills
claim. On appeal this court affirms that judgment by a divided court.

SEcTIoN 179 of the act of June 30, 1864, 13 Stat. 305, as
amended by the act of July 13, 1866, 14 Stat. 145, was as

UNITED STATES v. RAMSAY.
Statement of Facts.

follows: "That, where it is not otherwise provided for, it shall
be the duty of the collectors, in their respective districts, and
they are hereby authorized, to prosecute for the recovery of
any sum or sums that may be forfeited; and all fines, penalties, and forfeitures which may be imposed or incurred shall
and may be sued for and recovered, where not otherwise provided, in the name of the UnitedStates, in any proper form
of action, or by any appropriate form of proceeding, before
any circuit or district court of the United States for the district within which said fine, penalty, or forfeiture may have
been incurred, or before any court of competent jurisdiction.
And where not otherwise provided for, such share as the
Secretary of the Treasury shall, by general regulations, provide, not exceeding one moiety, nor more than five thousand
dollars in any one case, shall be to the use 'of the person, to be
ascertained by the court which shall have imposed or decreed
any such fine, penalty, or forfeiture, who shall first inform
of the cause, matter, or thing whereby such fine, penalty, or
forfeiture shall have been incurred; and when any sum is
paid without suit, or before judgment, in lieu of fine,
[penalty,] or forfeiture, and a share of the same is claimed by
any person as informer, the Secretary of the Treasury, under
general regulations to be by him presdribed, shall determine
whether any claimant is entitled to such share as above
limited, -aid to whom the same shall be paid, and shall make
payment accordingly. It is hereby declared to be the true
intent and meaning of the present and all previous provisions
of internal revenue acts granting shares to informers, that no
right accrues to or is vested in any informer in any case until
the fine, penalty, or fbrfeiture in such case is fixed by judg7
ment or compromise, and the amount or proceeds shall have
been paid, when the informer shall become entitled to his legal
share of the sum adjudged or agreed upon and received: Pro:
,vided, That nothing herein contained shall be construed to
limit or affect the power of remitting the whole or any portion
of a 'fine, penalty, or forfeiture conferred on the Secretary of
the Treasury by existing laws."
The Secretary of the Treasury, after the passage of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

above act, issued a circular fixing the amount of informers'
shares, one of which was forwarded to the deceased husband
of the claimant Ramsay at his request.
Section 39 of the act of June 6, 1872, which took effect
August 1, 1872, was as follows:
"That so much of section one hundred and seventy-nine of
the act of July thirteenth, eighteen hundred and sixty-six, as
provides for moieties to informers be, and the same is hereby,
repealed; and the commissioner of internal revenue, with the
approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, is hereby authorized to pay such sums, not exceeding in the aggregate the
amount appropriated therefor, as may in his judgment be
necessary for detecting and bringing to trial and punishment
persons guilty of violating the internal revenue laws, or conniving at the same, in cases where such expenses are noi otherwise provided for by law; and for this purpose there is hereby
appropriated one hundred thousand dollars, or so much thereof
as may be necessary, out of any money in the treasury not
otherwise appropriated."
Section 46 of the same act of June 6, 1872, 17 Stat. 258 was
as follows: "Sec. 46. That all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the provisions of this act are hereby repealed:
Provided, That all the provisions of said act shall be in force
for levying and collecting all taxes properly assessed, or liable
to be assessed, or accruing under the provisions of former acts,
the right to which has already accrued, or wlieh may hereafter accrue, under said acts, and for maintaining, continuing,
and enforcing liens, fines, penalties, and forfeitures incurred
under and by virtue thereof. And this act shall not be construed to affect any act done, right accrued, or penalty incurred under former acts, but every such right is hereby saved,
and:all suits afid prosecutions for acts already done in violation
of any former act or acts of Congress relating to the subjects
embraced in this act may be commenced or proceeded with in
like manner as if this act had not been passed."
The allegations in the claimants' ipetition were as follows:
"The claimant Sarah E. Ramsay is the widow in community
of G. Alexander Ramsay, late of the parish of Orleans, in the

UNITED STATES v. RAMSAY.
Statement of Facts.

state.of Louisiana, deceased, and the claimant Anna E. Wagner is the daughter and sole. heir of said G. Alexander Ramsay, and these claimants have been recognized as such widow
and heir by the civil district court for the said parish of
Orleans, and have been put in possession by said court; of all
the property, real, personal, and mixed, of said Ramsay,
together with all his rights of action including particularly
this claim, and are the legal representatives of said G. Alex. .
ander Ramsay in his personal estate.
"Said G. Alexander Ramsay, on the 29th day of April, in the
year 1871, being cognizant of the fact that the Houston and.
Texas Central Railway Company, a corporation of the state
of Texas, had committed frauds upon the internal revenue of
the United States, and was indebted to the United States in a
large amount for back taxes, and that by its said frauds and
non-payment of taxes it had become liable to heavy penalties,
to wit, in the sum of forty thousand dollars, and having, upon
inquiry made by him, been furnished by the commissioner of
internal revenue with a circular issued by the Secretary of
the Treasury, prescribing the rewards to be paid to informers
who should give information in regard to cases of that character, did inform the said commissioner of internal revenue of
the frauds and delinquencies aforesaid; and-thereupon the
attorney of the United States for the eastern district of Texas
brought suits in the name of the United States, in the district
court of the United States for said district, against the said
Houston and Texas Central Railway Company for forty penalties of one thousand dollars each, which said suits were compromised in June, 1874, before judgment, by the payment by
said railroad company to the United States of fifteen thousand.
gix hundred and ninety-four 'dollars and three. cents, which
sum was divided or distributed into the following items: Five
thousand dollars a or in lieu of penalties; five thousand five
hundred :and twenty-one dollars and eighty-seven cents for
tax unpaid; one thousand eight hundred and thirty-four dollars and ninety-five cents for interest thereon, and three thousand three hundred and thirty-seven dollars and twenty-onE
cents for costs of court.

OCTOBER TERAI, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

"Thereafter, in 1875 and 1876, the said G. Alexander Ramsay
made application to the Secretary of the Treasury for a share
of said sum so received in compromise, but no decision was
made by the said Secretary of the Treasury on his said application, and the said application remained pending in the said
-Treasury Department before the said Secretary until the year
1885, lyvhen said Ramsay applied to the'Secretary of the Treasury to take up said claim to ascertain as required by law
whether the said Ramsay was or was not the informer, to determine the share falling due to him as such under the terms
of the aforesaid circular, and having determined these questions, either to order the claim paid or to refer the claim, under
§,1063 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, to this
court for adjudication. Said Secretary having been thus
requested to decide this question, did, on the sixth day of
November, in the year 1885, adjudicate and decide that the
said Ramsay was the first informer against the -aforesaid railway company; that the inforihation given by him led to the
recovery from said company of penalties amounting to five
thousand dollars; and that the informer's share of that amount
was one thousand seven hundred dollars. Said Secretary,
however, while making the said award, declared that Le preferred not to order the payment of the said amount withoutf a
judicial construction from this court of the question whether
the 179th section of the act ol June 30th, 1864, as amended
by. the act of July 13th, 1866, was or was not repealed
by the 39th section of the act of June 6th, 1872, as to
cases in Which information had been given prior to the
passage of the last-named act. But the said Secretary made
his decision as aforesaid, upon the question of fact as to the
proper informer with the avowed object and purpose of obtaining.from this court a judicial construction of the said 39th section of the act of June 6th, 1872, which construction as applied
to the present case this petition is now filed to obtain. The
claimants therefore claim, under and by virtue of the said
decision and award made by the Secretary of the Treasury,
which decision is annexed to this petition and made a. part
ihereof, one thousand seven hundred dollars. In case, how-

UNITED STATES v. RAMSAY,
Statement of Facts.

ever, this honorable court shall decide that these claimants are
not limited in the amount by the terms of the award of the
said Secretary of the Treasury, then these claimants claim that
the amount of the said G. Alexander Ramsay's share should
be computed upon the entire amount obtained by the United
States from said railway company, and the claimants aver that
the amount prescribed by the original circular of August 14th,
1866, was the sum of two thousand eight hundred and fifty
dollars on the first twelve thousand dollars, and five per cent.
on all over twelve thousand dollars, making the share of said
Ramsay on the said fifteen thousand six hundred and ninetyfour dollars and three cents, the sum of three thousand and
thirty-four dollars and seventy cents, which amount they
claim.
"The said G. Alexander Ramsay, in his lifetime, after failing
to obtain satisfactory action from the Treasury Department,
did, on the third day of September; 1877, file a claim in this
honorable court to recover the amount of his share as informer,
which claim, for the reason that the Secretary of the Treasury
had not yet ascertained and decided that said Ramsay was the
informer in the case, or whether there was any informer, was
by this honorable court on the 5th day of May, 1879, dismissed
for want of jurisdiction. A bill for the relief of the said Ramsay has been sev6ral times presented in Congress, but no action
taken thereon until the first session of the 48th Congress, when
the same was referred to this honorable court, under the act of
March 3d, 1883, for a finding of facts, and a finding of facts
was on the 15th day of May, 1884, made by this court and
reported to Congress, and thereafter, on the 5th day of July,
1884, a favorable report was made on his claim by the Committee on Claims of the House of Representatives, but was not
acted upon by the said House.
"No other action than as aforesaid has been had on this
claim in Congress or by any of the departments.
"The claimants are the sole owners of this claim, and the
only persons interested therein; and no assignment or transfer
of this claim, or of any part thereof or interest therein, has been
made.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statemebt of Facts.

"The Claimants are justly entitled to the amount herein
claimed from the United States, after allowing all just credits
and off-s6ts. The claimants are, and said G. Alexander tRam.say was, citizens of the United States, and have at all times
borne true allegiance to the Government thereof, and have not
in any way voluntarily aided, abetted, or given encouragement
to rebellion against the said Government; and the claimants
believe the facts as stated in this petition to be true. And the
claimants demand Judgment for three thousand and thirty-four
dollars and seventy cents ($303470)."
The "decision and award of, the Secretary!' of the Treasury
annexed to the cldimant's petition was as follows:"
"TREASuR

DEPARTMENT,

" OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY,

"Washington, 1). C., fvember 6, 1885.
A. KING, Esqr:,
"Attorney for G. Alexander Ramsay,
"1420 New York Avenue, Washingto, .D.C.:
"Sm: In your letter of the 31st ultimo, in behalf of your
client, G. Alexander iRamsay, you state that -all you ask is
' that you, Air. Secretary, will adjudicate and decide upon the
evidence before you a plain, simple question- nf fact, never before considered or decided in any manner by yourself or any
of your predecessors, or any of your or their assistants, namely,
whether Mr. Ramsay was, or was not, the first informer
whereby the sum of $5000.00 penalties, and7$10,694.03 tax, interest, and c6sts, were recovered from the Houston and Texas
Central Pailway Company, for frauds upon the revenue; and
that having decided this question, you will refer the case to
the Court of Claims, under § 1063 of the Revised Statutes, for
trial and adjudication.'
"In reply, I have to say that the claim of your client referred
to, although presented to the Secretary of the Treasury in the
year 1875, as shown by the records of this office, has never
been formally rejected by any Secretary of the Treasury.
"The records show also that no Secretary of the Treasury
has ever ascertained and determined whether there was any
"GEoRGE

UNITED STATES v. RAMSAY.
Statement of Facts.

informer in the case referred to, nor has it ever been determined and declared formally by any Secretary whether your
client, i r. Ramsay., was or was not the first informer in this
case.

"All that is shown by the records of this office on this point
is that Mr. Ramsay was notified by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue that he was not entitled to the share for which
lie made application, because the act of June 6,1872, repealing
inforners' shares, went into effect before the case in which he
claimed- the share had been compromised, and that the claim
was merely marked 'too late,' that no finding or award was
made, and that no letter of rejection was written by the Secretary to the claimant.
"In this state of the case I see no objection to complying
with your request, so far as to state that it clearly appears
from the evidence on file in this case that your client, George
Alexander Ramsay, was the first informer against the Htouston
and Texas Central Railway Company, and that the information given by him led to the recovery from said company of
penalties amounting to $5000.00.
"The informer's share of that amount would have been
$1700.00, under the schedule of shares prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury in a circular issued by him, August 14,
1806, pursuant to the authority conferred by § 179 of the act
of June 30, 1864, 13 Stat. 305, as amended by the act of July
13, 1866, 14 Stat. 145. This amount was not paid, because
said § 179 was repealed by § 39 of the act of June 6, 1872, 17
Stat. 256, which took effect August 1, 187I2, § 47, and the
Department held, under the wording of said § 179, viz. :,' That
no right accrues to or is invested in any informer in any case
until the fine, penalty, or forfeiture in such case is fixed by
judgment or compromise, and the -amount or proceeds shall
have been paid,' that unless the amount of the fine, penalty,
or forfeiture had been both fixed and paid to the Govermnent
prior to August 1, 1872, no share of the same could be paid to
the informer, and that as the case in question was not compromised until in 1874, Mr. Ramsay was not entitled to receive
the allotted share.

OCTOBER TEIl,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.,

"That the present Secretary is not bound to accept and act
upon this. construction of the law is made plain by the decision of the Supreme Court of the United States in the case of
.the United States v. XfacDcaniel, 7 Pet. 1, wherein it .is said:
IIt willnot be conteiided that one Secretary has not the same
power as another to give a construction to an act which relates
to the business of his Department.'
"lfevertheless, as the construction referred to has been
applied, as I am informed, to a large number of cases, and has
been acquiesced in from 18M5 to the present time, I prefer not
to set it aside without the authority of a judicial construction,
and therefore I decline to award or order the payment of the
share claimed by Mrr. Ramsay in this case.
,"Itis presumed that upon this official action your client will
nowbe in a condition to prosecute his claim in the Court of
Claims, and that that court will have ffill jurisdiction of the
"Very respectfully,
case.
"D.- A1A-IN G,

~cSecrtay."~
The defendants to this petition filed a general demurrer as
follows:
"And now come the said defendants, by their Attorney General, and demurring to the petition in this cause, state as the
ground thereof that the petition does not allege facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action.
"ROBERT A. HOWARD,
"A'ssistant Attortney General."
The Courts of Claims rendered judgment for the whole
amount of the claim, from which the United States took this
appeal.
hXr. Attorney General and Mir. F. P. .Deweesfor appellant.
Mr. George A. Zing and. h
appellees.
AIR. CMEF JusTIcE WAITE

i.lliam IF. Handlinb for

announced that the judgment of

the Court of Claims was
Aflirned by a Divided Court.

