GIBBS v. CRANDAlL.
Statement of Facts.

398; .Brownv. Colorado, 106 U. S. 95, 97; Chouteauv. Gibson,
111 U. S. 200; Detroit .ailway Company v. Gutlard, 114
U. S. 133. -Here there is nothing of the kind, and in the assignment of errors on the petition in error to the Supreme Court
of the state no reference was made to any constitutional question whatever, except inferentially under that which relates to
overruling the motion for a new trial. Certainly it does not
appear unmistakably on the face of the record that the
S.upreme Court of. the state either knew or ought to have
known that the validity of the statute in question was challenged on account of its repagnancy to the Constitution or
laws of the United States. Brown v. Colorado, supra, p. 97.
Indeed, we know of no provision of the Constitution which
renders such a statute invalid as a whole, and there is nowhere
in the record any claim that in"the charter of the corporation
there was a contract by the state the obligation of which had.
been impaired by the legislation. If there had been, the validity of the statute could not have been challenged except in its
application to tlis charter, .and that was not the objection
made either in the motion for a new trial or anywhere ele
that we can discover.
The writ of er-raris dismissedfor want of jursdition.

GIBBS v.. CRANDALL.
APPEAL FROM THE ciROciT CORT OF TiE UXITED STATES FO. THE
WESTERN DISTRI cT OF LOUISIANA.
Submitted January 7, 1937. -Decided

January 24, 1887.

The parties in this case on both hides being all citizens of Louisiana, it is held
that the facts as stated in the opition of the court show no Teal and substantial dispute or controversy arising under the Constitution or laws ot
the United States, so as to authorize the removal of the case from the
state court of Louisiana, to the Circuit Court of the United States.

THIS was an appeal from a judgment of the Circuit Court
of the United States-for the Western District of Louisiana re-

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

manding to a court of the state a cause which had been removed from it. The base is stated in the opinion of the
court.
.fr. AS.Prentiss -Matt and M'. Wade 1R. Young for appellants.
X21tv. Thomas C. Catchings and .'r.James
appellee.
Met. C= F JUSTICE. WA i
court.

. Coleman for

delivered the opinion of the

This is an appeal under § 5 of the act of March 3, 1875, c.
137, 18 Stat. 470, from an order of the Circuit Court remanding a case which had been removed fromn a state court, on the
ground that the suit was one "arising under the Constitution
and laws of the United States." All the parties, both plaintiffs and defendants, are citizens of Louisiana, and the right of
removal depends entirely on the question whether it appears
on the face of the record tha there is in the case a real and
substantial dispute or controversy arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States; that is to say, whether
"some title, right, privilege, or immunity, on which the recovery depends, will be defeated by one construction of the
ConstitutLon or a law of the United States, or sustained by the
opposite construction." Starin v. New York, 115 U. S.248,
257; Southern Pacific 2ailroad v.. Califorl-na, 118 U. S. 109.
The facts are these: At some time prior to September, 1878,
Thomas J. Martin brought suit in the Eighth District Court of
the parish of Madison, Louisiana, against Thomas W. Watts,
as principal, and Phillip Hoggatt, then in life, as surety, "oh
a contract of ient." Pending this suit Hoggatt died, and Mrs.
Martha A. Gibbs was appointed and qualified as administratrix of his succession. The suit was then revived and afterwards conducted contradictorily with the achninistratrix. At
November term, 1880, a judgment was rendered in favor of
the administratrix, rejecting the demand against the succes-

GIBBS v. CRANDALL.
Opinion of the Court.

sion of Hoggatt. By agreement of Martin and Watts a new
trial was awarded, but it is claimed that the administratrix of
Hoggatt was not a party to this agreement, and that no new
trial was ever ordered as to her. 'At November term, 1881, a
second trial was had and judgment rendered. On appeal to
the Supreme Court of the state this judgment was reversed
and a new judgment given against Natts and the succession
of I-foggatt in solido. At Mlay .term, 1882, of the District
Court a rule was taken on the administratrix of Hoggatt to
show cause why the property of the succession should not be
sold to pay this judgmnent. To this rule the administratrix
made answer, setting up the original judgment in her favor
rejecting the claim, and averring that the subsequent proceedings were null and void as to the succession for lack of jurisdiction. The defence was sustained in the District Court, but
on appeal to the Supreme Court this was reversed, and the
District Court aFterwards, in obedience to the mandate of the
Supreme Court, made the rule absolute and directed the administratrhx to cause the property to be sold to pay the judgment.
In this condition of things the.heirs of Hoggatt, on the 1st
of August, 1885, filed their petition in the District Court against
the administrator of the estate of Martin, who had died pending the original proceedings, and the administratrix of Hoggatr, to restrain the sale which had been ordered and to annul
the judgment of the Supreme Court against the estate, on the
ground that after the original judgment in her favor the administratrix was no longer a party to the suit, and that the
estate was not bound by the subsequent proceedings therein.
In the petition it is averred, in various forms, that the judgment against the administratrix, when she was not a party to
the suit, was "absolutely null and void, as being repugnant to
and in conflict with the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States, and an attempt to deprive these petitioners of their property without due process
of law." On the 3d of August a writ of injunction, as prayed
for, was issued on the allowance of the judge of the District
Court, and the next day this writ and a citation in the snt

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

were served on the administrator of Martin. On the 23l of
October, 1885, the heirs of Hoggatt filed in the state court their
petition for the removal of the suit to the Circuit Court of the
United States, as "a suit of a civil nature, in equity . . . arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States, the
said suit being a bill in equity to avoid the mandate, judgments
and decrees of the honorable the Supreme Court of Louisiana
and of your honorAble court, for the reason that said mandate,
judgments and decrees are repugnant to and in conflict'with
the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States." After the case was entered in the
Circuit Court, Crandall moved that it be remanded, and this
motion "was granted July 20, 1886, the court "being of opinion that the record does not disclose a case withini the jurisdiction of the court."
This order was clearly right. The case as made by the
plaintiffs presents no disputed question of Federal law. If the
administratrix of the estate of Hoggatt was not a party to
the proceediigs after the first judgment in her favor, no one
can claim that the succession she represented was bound by"
what was afterwards done in the suit. All depends on whether
she continued to be in law and in fact a party; and this is to
be determined by the effect of the original judgment in ner
favor, and the form of the proceedings thereafter. This may
involve a consideration 'of the law and practice i Louisiana;
but it is not, so far as anything now appears on the record, at
all dependent for its solution on any construction of the Constitution or lawg of the United States. As was said in GoldTFashing & Tfater Co. v. Jeyes, 96 U. S. 199, 203: "Before
[ttferefore] a Circuit Court can be required to retain 'a cause
under this jurisdistion it must in some form appear upon the
record, by a statement of facts ' in legal and logical form,' such
as is required in good pleading, (1 Chit. P1. 213,) that the suit is
one which Ireally and substantially involves a dispute or controversy' as to a right which depends upon the constructipn or effect
of thu Constitution or some law or treaty of the United States."
It is not enough for the party who seeks a removal of his
cause to say that the suit is one arising under the Constitution.

109

UNITED STATES v.' SCHLESINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

He must state the facts so as to enable the court to see whether
the right he claims does really and substantially depend on a
construction of that instrument. -That has not been done in
this case, and the order remanding the suit is consequently ,
Affirmed-.

TGER.
UNITED STATES v. SCHLE,. -'
ERROR TO

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THfE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Argued January 13, 1887. -

Decided January 24, 1887.

Construing together §§ 2931 and 3011 of the Revised Statutes, the decision of the Secretary of the Treasury, on an appeal from a collector
of customs, as to the rate and amount of duties, is not fnal1 and conclusive, except in a case where, after a protest and appeal, a payment of
duties is made in order to obtain possession of goods, and then a suit is
not brought to recover back the duties within the times and underothe
limitations prescribed by § 2931.
Such decision is not final, in a suit brought by the United States against an
importei, where, on entering goods, he paid the estimated duties, ahd
the goods were delivered to him, and on a reliquidation of the entry
further duties were assessed, and he duly protested, and appealed to the
Secretary, who sustained the action of the collector, the suit being brought
to recover such further duties.
In such suit the defendant may show, as a defence, that the further duties'
were illegally Mssessed.

Tins was an action at law to recover a sum alleged to be
due the United States on imported merchandise. Judgment for
defendant. Plaintiff below sued out this writ of error.' Thecase is stated in the opinion of the the court.
.Jfr. Solicitor Generalfor plaintiff in'error.
Mr.L. S. Dabney and --Mr. William S. 'JITall for defendants

n error.
AJR. JusTIcE BLATcnwoRD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action at law brought by the United States against
the members of the firm ,of Naylor & Co., in the Circuit Court

