41

NEMAIIA COUNTY v. FRANK.
Opinion of the-Court.

NEMAA COUNTY v. FRANK.
ERMOR

CU
TO THE Ciourr

RT OF TAE UrrED STATES

FOR'TEE

DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
j~ubinitted December20, 1886.-Ddclded January,17,1887.

When the defendant in an action at law denies each and every allegation In
the declaration, and puts the plaIntiffonhIs proof,'it is not error to order
stricken from the answer special defences, which maybe" set up under
this general denial.
It has been settled by this court in Davenpors v. Dodge COunty, 105 U. S. 237,
and Blair v. Curaing County, 111 U. S. 363, that coupons like those sued
on in this case are obligations of the county, and that an action may be
maintained against the county upon them.

Tins was an action at law.against a county to enforce the.
payment of coupons on bonds issued by tho. county. The
case is stated in the opinion of the court,.
fr. John M. Atur'tont, 2fr. J. S. &uZ, and Hr. WMater J
L2zmb, for plaintiff in errr.
.Tfr. J..ff. WoolwortA for. defbndant in error.
knR. JusTICE
oMLArHEWS delivered the opinion of the ourt.

This is an action at law brought by Augustus Frank, a citizen of the state of New York, for .the purpose.of enforcing
the payment of the interest coupons on certain municipal
bonds alleged to have been issued by thie county of Nemaha,
on behalf of Brownville -precinct in said county, to aid in the
construction of the Brownville, Fort Kearney and Pacific Railroad, in pursuance of dn act 6f the legislature of the state of
Nebraska. The petition. alleges, that, by virtue of an act entitled "An adt to enable counties, cities, and precincts to borrow money on their bonds, or to issue bonds to aid in the
construction or completion of works of internal improvement
in this state, and to legalize bonds already issued for such pur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

poses," passed on the 15th day of February, 1869, the board
of commissioners of the county of lemaha issued the special
bonds or written obligations of said Brownville precinct, on
the 20th day of August, 1870,' to aid in the construction of the
Bro nville, Fort Kearney and Pacific Railroad, and delivered
the same to the company authorized to construct said road;
that prior to the issue of said bonds the proposition to issue
the same was duly submitted to the voters of said Brownville
precinct, in strict accordance with the provisions of the said
act of the legislature, and that a large majority voted for said
proposition; that, during the years 1871 and 1872, the said
Brownville precinct and the board of county commissioners
duly paid the coupons then falling due by means of a tax
levied for that purpose, but for the years 1878 and 1879 they
have failed and refused to pay the same or to levy a tax therefor. The petition also alleges, that, on or about the 20th of
February, 1871, for a valuable consideration, the bonds and
coupons were transferred in good faith to John Fitzgerald, and
by him to the plaintiff.
An answer was filed by ,Neinaha County, as defendant, containing the following matter:
"The total amount of the bonds so issued and sold, being
one series, under one proposition, amounted to one hundred
thousand dollars. The said bonds and coupons were voted
upon the following contract and conditions and none other:
At the time of the vote for said bonds certain persons were
attempting to organize a railroad corporation under the name
of the JBroN-ville, Fort Kearney and Pacific Railroad Company , the identical same organization named in said bonds,
with a capital stock of two million dollars, but were unable to
organize it because unable to obtain a payment on said amount
of stock of ten per cent. thereof, as required by law, precedent
to the right to do business; they considered and treated said
series of one hundred thousand in bonds as one one-hundredthousand-dollar cash subscription all paid up in cash in advance,
and, also, they treated and considered bonds of the -city of
Brownville, situated within the said precinct of Brownville
mentioned in the petition, of the nominal sum of sixty thou-

NEMAHA COUNTY v. FRANK.
Opinion of the Court.

sand dollars, as sixty thousand dollars cash subscription paid
up in cash in advance, all as- capital stock of said railroad company, aggregating one hundred and sixty thouband dollars, so
considered and treated as cash capital stock paid in; but, by
considering the said bonds of the.nominal sum of $160,000 as
one hundred and sixty thousand dollars in money paid in on
the capital stock, there was still an insufficient amount pail in
to enable the company to do business, there being no cash paid
in except on a few private subscriptions, and not exceeding
ten thousand dollars, so that even by treating said bonds as
money there was still a deficiency of thirty thousand d~l1ars
of the amount prescribed by law as a condition precedent to
the organization of the company for the purpose of transacting
any of the business for which it was sought to be organized.
Defendant, therefore, denies that said railroad company was
ever a corporation with power to transact business or to receive municipal bonds for its aid.
"Defendant, therefore, avers that neither said precinct nor
said county had any power or authority to aid in the organization of said railroad company by subscribing to its stock or in
any other manner. Defendant -further avers, that said pretended railroad company never either filed or recorded its
articles of incorporation, if any it ever had, in any county in
the state of Nebraska, as by law it was compelled to do prior
to its existence as a corporation.
- In the transactions of issuing said bonds by defendant and
of receiving the same by said pretended railroad company,
neither the defendant nor the said company had any power to
act, and all the acts therein on both sides are and ever have
been ultra vi'es and null and void.
"The proposition submitted to the voters of said precinct as
a basis of the right to issue said bonds was a proposition to
subscribe by said precinct one hundred thousand dollars in
stock and shares in the capital stock of said pretended railroad
company, and pay the same in bonds aforesaid.
"The total assessed valuation of all the property in the said
precinct, as shown by the last assessment preceding the issuing
of said bonds, was $920,000, and the issue of 8100,000 in bonds
was in excess of the amount allowed by law."

OCTOBER TERM, -1886.
Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiff having filed a reply, .afterwards, moved the
court to strike out from the ansWer of the defendant all the
foregoing matter as immaterial and irrelevant. This motion
was sustained by the court, to which ruling the defendant
excepted. Upon the pleadings as thus amended the cause
was tried by a jury, who returned a verdict in favor of the
plaintiff, on which judgment was rendered, to reverse which
this writ of error has been sued out and prosecuted.
This ruling of the court in striking out this portion of the
answer is alleged as error. For the purposes of the argument
wc shall assume what is claimed by the plaintiff in error, that
the matter stricken out was material and relevant. The
defences intended to be raised by it were, that in two particulars the bonds in question were void as not"having been issued
in conformity with law. The sections of the btatute of 1869,
in pursuance of which it is alleged they' were issued, are as
follows:
I"SEariox 1. That any county or city in the state of Nebraska
i.hereby authorized .o issue bonds to aid in- the construction
of any railroad, or any other work of internal improvement,
to an amount to be determined by the county commissioners
of such county or the city council of such city, not exceeding
ten per centum of the assessed valuation of all taxable property
in said county or city, Provided the county commissioners or
city council shall first submit the question of the issuing of
such bonds to a vote of th6 legal voters of said county or city,
in the manner provided by chapter nine of the Revised Statutes of the state -of Nebraska, for submittirg to the people of
a county the question of borrowing money.."
"SErmox 7. Any precinct in any organized county of this
state shall ha-ve the privilege of voting to aid works of internal improvement, and be entitled to all the privileges conferred
upon counties and cities by the provisions of this act, and in
such case the precinct election shall be governed in the same
manner as is provided in this act, so far as the same is applicable, and the county commissioners shall issue special bonds
for such precinct, and the tax to pay the same shall be levied
upon the property within the bounds of such precinct. Such

IEMAHA COUNTY v. FRANK.
Opinion of the Court.

precinct bonds shall be the same as other bonds, but shall contain a statement showing the special nature of such bonds."
The averinents in that portion of the answer stricken out
a'e in substance, 1st, that the bonds were illegal and void
because not issued to a company authorized by the statute to
receive them; and, 2d, that they were illegal and void because
issued in excess of the amount of ten per centum of the assesed
valuation of the taxable property in said precinct. The answer.
of the defendant, in addition" to the matter stricken out, contains the following: "Defendant has no knowledge as to
whether the plaintiff is a bona fide holder of said bonds, or
any part thereof, or whether he purchased them before due 46
paid any value therefor, or purchased them at all, and, therefore, for the purpose of raising the issue and procuring the
proof thereon by compulsory process, -defendant denies the
allegations of the petition on that subject, and also denies
each and every allegation contained in said petition, except
such as it has herein expressly admitted in this answer."
This clause in the answer remained and formed the issue
which was .tried: It is a general denial of each ani every
all-,ation of the petition, as no all ation of the petition was
Gtherwise admitted in the answer. It therefore put the plaintiff upon proof of every fact necessary to constitute the cause
of action set out in his petition, and embraced a denial of the
legality and validity of the bonds, and the lawfulness of their
issue and delivery. It required the plaintiff to shr6w by competent proof that he was the owner of the. coupons sued on,
taken from bonds in fact executed by the defendant, issued in
accordance with law, and delivered to a party competent
to receive the title. It permitted proof on the part of the
defendant of every fact which tended to establish that the
bonds were illegal and void. It follows, therefore, that every
defence which was open to the defendant under that portion
of the answer sti'icken out was equally open to it under the
answer as it stood at the trial. The plaintiff obtained no
-advantage, and the defendant suffered no detriment , by the
ruling of the court requiring that portion of the answer to bp
stricken out. The action of the court in granting the motion

' OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

did not, therefore, prejudice the defendant. It does not
appear from this record what took place at the trial. There
is no bill of exceptions which shows what evidence, if any, the
defendant offered, or whether any that he did offer was rejected. For aught that appears, the very matters which he
might have offered'in evidence, under that portion of the
answer stricken out, were in fact offered and received under
the pleadings as they stood at the time of the trial.
It seems also to be objected to the judgment rendered
against the county of Nemaha that the coiupons sued on are
not the obligations of the county. It is said that the bonds
are precinct bonds, issued by the county commissioners of the
county, the duty to pay which rests upon the precinct alone;
the mode of-payment being by means of a tax to be levied by
the county commissioners upon the property within the bounds
of the precinct. It is, therefore, argued that no action will lie
against the county in respect to these bonds and coupons,
except in case of the refusal of the county commissioners to
levy the tax when it ought to be levied, when a mandamus is
the sole remedy, being the one prescribed by the statute. This
question has been set at rest by the previous decisions of this
court. Davenport v. -Dodge County, 105 U. S. 237, and Blair
v. Cuming County, 111 U. S. 363, are decisions upon the very
point arising under the same statute.
There is, therefore, no error in the record, and
T/e judqment is affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. SYMONDS
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIM.
Submitted December 6, 1886.-Decided January 10, 1887.

The sea-pay given to officers of the navy by Rev. Stat. ยง 1556 may be earned
by services performed under orders of the Navy Department in a vessel
employed, by authority of law, in active service in bays, inlets, roadsteads, or other arms of the sea, under the general restrictions, regula-

