ROBBIXS v. SHELBY TAXING DISTRICT.

' 489

Syllabus.

If there is anything more in the eleventh question certified
than has been already disposed of in answering the others, it
is too broad and indefinite for our consideration under the
rules which have been long established regulating the practice
on a certificate of division.
All tMe -questions certified, except the eleventh, 'are anwered
in the affirnwtive, and as to 'that,no pecial awnswer wll be
made.

ROBBIN7S v. SHELBY COUNTY TAXING DISTRICT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT-OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.
Submitted Jauuary 8,1886.-Argued November 5, 1886. -Decided March 7,1887.

Chapter 96, ยง 16, Stats. Tennessee, 1881, enacting that "all drummers and
all persons not having a regular licensed house of business in the Taxing
District ' of Shelby County,' offering for sale, or selling goods, Wares, or
merchandise therein by sample, shall be requirbd to pay to the county
trustee, th sum of .%10 per week, or-$25-per month for such privilege,"
applies to persons soliciting the sale of goods on behalf of individuals
or firms doing business in another state; and, so far as it applies to them,
it is a regulation of commerce among the state, and violates the provision of the Constitution of the United States which grants to Congress
the power to make such regulations..
Interstate commerce cannot be taxed at all by a state, even -though the same
amount of tax should be laid on domestic commerce, or that which is
carried on solely within the state.
The power granted to Congress, to regulate commerce among the states,
being exclusive when the subjects are national in their character, or 'admit only of one uniform system of regulation, the failure of Congress
ta exercise that power in any case, is an expression of its will that -the
subject shall be left free from restrictions or impositions upon" it by the
several states.
A state may enact laws which in practice operate to affect commerce amoifg
the states - as by providing in the legitimate exercise of its police power
and general jurisdiction, for the security and, comfort of persons and
the protection of property; by establishing and regulating channels for
commercial, facilities; by the passage of inspection laws and laws to
restrict the sale of articles injurious to health and morals; by the infposition of taxes upon avocations within its borders not interfering with
foreign .or interstate commerce or employment, or with business exer-

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.
cised under authority of the Constitution of the United States; and in
other ways indicated in the opinion of the court, subject in all cases
to the limitations therein defined: but the statute of the State of Tennessee, considered in this opinion, is not such a law.

THIS was an information in a state court of Tennessee,
against the plaintiff in error, for doing business in the Taxing
District of Shelby County in that state, as a drummer on behalf
of a firm doing business in Cincinnati, Ohio, without a license
as required by the provision of the statute of Tennessee,
which is set out in the opinion of the court. The defendant
was found guilty, and this judgment was affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the state on appeal. 13 Lea, 303. The defendant sued out this writ of error. The cause was submitted
at the last term of court. The court, on the 8th of March,
1886, ordered it argued; and argument was heard accordingly
at this term. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
J.Mh. Euke E TF'rigld for plaintiff in error.
.Edmondson was with him on the brief.

-Yr. -F T.

-Mr.S. P. Wfalker for defendant in error.
MnIE JusTIoE BRADLEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case originated in the following manner: Sabine Robbins, the plaintiff in error, in February, 1884, was engaged at
the city of .Mremphis, in the State of Tennessee, in soliciting
the sales of goods for the firm of Rose, Robbins & Co., of
Cincinnati, in the State of Ohio, dealers in paper, and other
articles of stationery, and exhibited samples for the purpose
of effecting such sales,- an emplqyment usually denominated
as that of a "drummer." There was in force at that time a
statute of Tennessee, relating to the subject of taxation in the
Taxing Districts of the state, applicable, however, only to the
Taxing Districts of Shelby County, (formerly the city of Memphis,) by which it was enacted, amongst other things, that
--All drummers, and all persons not having a regular licensed
house of business in the Taxing District, offering for sale or

ROBBINS v. SHELBY TAXING DISTRICT.
Opinion of the Court.

selling goods, wares, or merchandise therein, by sample, shall
be required to pay to the county trustee the sum of $10 per
week, or $25 per month, for such privilege, and no license
shall be issued for a longer period than three months."
Stats. Tennessee, 1881, c. 96, ยง 16.
The business of selling by sample and nearly sixty other
occupations had been by law declared to be privileges, and
were taxed as such, and it was made a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not less than five, nor more than fifty dollars,
to exercise any of such occupations without having first paid
the tax or obtained the license required therefor.
Under this law, Robbins, who -had not paid the tax nor
taken a license, was prosecuted, convicted and sentenced to
pay a fine of ten dollars, together with the state and county
tax, and costs; and on appeal to the Supreme Court of the
state,, the judgnent was affirmed. This Writ of error is
brought to review the judgment of the Supreme Court, on
the ground that the law imposing the tax was repugnant to
that clause of the Constitution of the United States which
declares that Congress shall have power to regulate commerce
among the several states.
On the trial of the cause in the inferior court, a jury being
waived, the following agreed statement of facts was submitted
to the court, to wit:
"Sabine Robbins is a citizen and resident of Cincinnati,
Ohio, and on the- day of, 1884, was engaged in the
business of drumming in the Thxing District of Shelby County,
Tenn.; i.e., soliciting trade by- the use of samples for the
house or firm for which he worked as a drummer, said firm
being the firm of 'Rose, Robbins & Co.,' doing business in
Cincinnati, and all the members of said firm being citizens
and residents of Cincinnati, Ohio. While engaged in the act
of drumming for said firm, and for the claimed offence of not
having taken out the required license for doing said business,
the defendant, Sabine Robbins, was arrested by one of the
Memphis or Taxing District police force and carried before
the Hon. D. P. iadden, president of the Taxing District, and
fined for the offense of drumming without a license. It is

492

OCTOBER TERM, 1880.
Opinion 9f the Court.

admitted the firm of 'Rose, Robbins & Co.' are engaged in
the selling of paper, writing materials,, and such articles as
-areused in the book stores of the Taxing District of Shelby
County, and that it was a line of such articles for the sale of
which the said defendant herein was drumming at the time of
his arrest."
This was all' the evidence, and thereupon the court rendered
judgment againstthe 'defendant, to which he excepted, and a
bill of exbeptions was taken.
The principal question argued before the Supreme Court of
Tennessee Was, as to the constitutionality of the act which
imposed the tax on drummers; and the court decided that it
was constitutional and valid.
That is the question before us, and it is one of great importance to the people of the United States, both as it respects
their business interests and their constitutional rights. It is
presented in a nutshell, and does not, at this day; require for
its solution any great elaboration of argument or review of
authorities. Certain principles have been already established
by the decisions of this court which will conduct us to a satisfactory decision. Among those principles are the following:
1. The Constitutipn of the United States having given to
Congress the power to regulate commerce, not only with foreign nations, but among the several states, that power is necessarily exclusive whenever the subjects of it are national in their
character, or admit only of one uniform system, or plan of
regulatioii. This was decided in the case of Cooley v. Board
of Wardens of the _Port of Philade phia, 12 How. 299, 319,
and was virtually involved in the case of Gibbons v. Ogden, 9
Wheat1, ,rnd has been.cohifirmed in many subsequent cases,
amongst others, in Brown v. -Maryland,12 Wheat. 419; The
Passenger Cases, ' How. 283; Crandall v. .Yevalx, 6 Wall.
35, 42; Ward v. ILaryland, 12 Wall. 418, 430; State Freigt
Taw Oases, 15 Wall. 232, 279;, Henderson v. Mayor of .T ew
York7, 92 U. S. 259, 272 ; Railroad,Co. v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465,
469; -Mobilev. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691, 6971; Gloucester Ferry
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 I. S. 196, 203; Wabash, &c., Railway Co. v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 557.

ROBBINS v. SHELBY TAXING DISTRICT.
Opinion of the Court.

2. Another established doctrine of this court is, that where
the power of Congress to regulate is exclusive the failure of
Congress to make express regulations indicates, its will that the
subject shall be left free from any restrictions or impositions;
and any regulation of the subject by the states, except in matters of local concern only, as hereafter mentioned, is repugnant
to such freedom. This was held by Mr. Justice Johnson in
(ibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 222, by Mr. Justice Grier in the
Passenger Cases, 7 How. 2,83, 462, and has been affirmed in
subsequent cases. Statepeight Tax Cases, 15 Wall. 232, 279;
Railroad Co. v. HMusen, 95 -U. S. 465, 469 ; Teltan v. _fMissouri,
91 U. S. 275, 282; Mobile v. .Zimlall, 102 U. S. 691, 697;
Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622, 631; 1 ralling v. fichigan,
116 U. S. 446, 455; Pickard v. Pullman Southern Car Co.,
117 U. S. 34; TFabash, &c.,Railway Co. v. Illinois, 118 U. S.
557.
3. It is also an established principle, as already indicated,
that the only way in which commerce between the states can.
be legitimately affected by state laws, is when, by virtue of its
police power, and its jurisdiction over persons, and property
within its limits, a state provides -for the security of the lives,
limbs, health, and comfort of' persons and the protection of
property; 'or when it does those things which may otherwise
incidentally affect commerce, such as the establishment and
regulation of highways, canals, railroads, wharves, ferries, and
other commercial facilities; the passage of inspection laws to
secure the due quality and.measure of products and commodities; the passage of laws to regulate or restrict the sale of
articles deemed injurious to the health or morals of the coM-'
munity; the imposition of taxes upon persons residing within
the state or belonging to its population, and upon avocations
and employments pursued therein, not directly connected with
foreign or interstate commerce orwith some other employment
or business exercised under authority of the Constitution and
laws of the United States; and the imposition of taxes upon
all property within the state, mingled with and forming part
of the great mass of property therein. But in maling such
internal regulations a state cannot impose taxes -4pon persons

OCTOBER TERM,. "1886.
Opinion of the Court.

passing through the state, or coming into it merely for a temporary purpose, especially if connected with interstate or foreign
commerce; nor can it impose such taxes upon property imported
into the state from abroad, or from another state, and not yet
become part of the common mass of property therein; and no
discrimination ,cn be made, by hny such regulations, adversely
to the persons or property of other states; and no regulations
can be made directly affecting interstate commerce. Any taxation or regulation of the latter character would be an-unauthorized interferencewith the power given to Congress over the
subject.
-For authorities on this last head it is only necessary to refer
to those already.cited.
In a word, it may be said, that in the matter of interstate
commerce the United States are but one country, and are and
must be subject to one system of regulations, and not to a multitude of systems. The doctrine of the freedom of that commerce, except as regulated by Congress, is so firmly established
that it is unnecessary to enlarge further upon the subject.
In view of these fundamental principles, which are to govern our decision, we may approach the question submitted to
.usin the present case, and inquire whether it is competent for
a state to lvy a tax or impose any other restriction upon the
citizens or inhabitants of other states, for selling or seeking to
sell their goods in such state before they are introduced therein.
Do not such restrictions affect the very foundation of interstate trade? How is a manufacturer, or a merchant, of one
state, to sell his goods in another state, without, in some way,
obtaining orders therefor? Must he be compelled to send
them at a venture, without knowing whether there is any demand for them? This may, undoubtedly, be safely done. with
regard to some products for which'there is always a market
and a demand, or where the course of trade has established a
general and unlimited demand. A raiser of farm produce in
New Jersey or Connecticut, or a manufacturer of leather or
wooden ware, may, perhaps, safely take his goods to the city
of New York and be'sure of finding a stable and reliable market for them. But there are hundreds, pu-haps thousands, of

ROBBINS v. SHELBY 'rAXLNG-DISTRICT.

495.

Opinion of the Court.

articles which no person would think of exporting to, another
state without first procuring -anorder for them. It is true, a
merchant or manufacturer in one state may erect or hire a
warehouse or store in another state, in which to place' his
goods, and await the chances of being able to sell them. But
this would require a warehouse or a store in every state with
which he might desire to trade. Surely, he.cannot be compelled to take this inconvenient and expensive course. In certain branches of business,' it may be adopted with advantage.
Many rnanufacturers do open houses or places of business in
other states tha-A those in which they reside, and send their
goods there to be kept on sale. But this' is a matter of convenience, and not of compulsion, and would neither suit the
convenience nor be within the abilitkr of many others engaged
in the same kind of business, and would be entirely -unsuited
to many branches of business. In these cases, then, what shall'
the merchant or manufacturer'do, who wishes to sell his goods
in other states? Must he sit still in his factory or warehouse,
and wait for the people of those states to come to him? - This
would be a silly and ruinous proceeding.
The only other vay, and -the one, perhaps, which most exteusively prevails, is to obtain orders from persons residing or
doing business in those other states. But how is the merchant
or manufacturer t& secure such orders? If he may be taxed
by such states for doing so, whoshall limit the tax? It may
amount to prohibition. 'To say that such a tax is not a burden upon interstate commerce, is to speak at least unadvisedly
and without due attention to the truth of things.
It may be suggested that the merchant or manufacturer'hds
the post-office at his command, and may solicit orders through
the mails. We do not 'suppose, however, that any one would
seriously contend that this is the only way in which his business can be transacted without being amenable to exactions on
the part of the State. Besides, why could not the State to
which his letters might be sent, tax him for soliciting orde's
in, this way, as well as in any other -%yay ?
The truth is, that, in numberless instances, the most feasible;
if not the only practicable, way for the merchant or manufac-

OCTOBER,' TERM,, 1886.
Opiniou of the Court.

tuter to obtain orders in other states is to obtain them by personal application, either by himself, or by some one employed
by him for that purpose; and in many branches of business he
must necessarily exhibit samples for the purpose of deterinining the kind and quality of the goods he proposes to sell, or
which the other party desires to purchase. But the right of
taxation, if it exists. at all, is not confined to selling by sample.
It embraces every act of sale, whether by word of mouth only,
or by the exhibition of samples. If the right exists, any New
York or Chicago merchant visiting New Orleans or Jacksonville, for pleasure or for his health, and casually taking an order for goods to be 'sent, from his warehouse, could be made
liable to pay a tax for so doing, or be convicted of a misdemeanor for not having taken out a license. The right to tax
would apply equally as well to the principal as to his agent,
and to a single act of sale as to a hundred acts.
But it will be said that a denial of this power of taxation will
interfere with the right of the state to tax business pursuits and
callings carried on within its limits, and its rights to require
licenses for carrying on those which are declared to be privileges.
This may be true to a certain extent; but only in those cases
in which the states themselves, as well as individual citizens,
are subject to the restraints of the higher law of, the Constitution. And this interference will be very limited in its operation. It will only prevent the levy of a tax, or the requirement
of alicense, for making negotiations in the conduct of interstate commerce; and it may Well be asked where the state
gets authority for imposing burdens on that branch of business
any more than for imposing a tax on the business of importing from foreign countries, or even on that of postmaster or
United States marshal. The mere calling the business of a
drunner a privilege cannot make it so. Can the state legislature make it a Tennessee privilege to carry on the business of
importing goods from. foreign countries? If not, has it any
better right to make it a state privilege to carry on interstate
commerce? It seems to be forgotten, in argument, that the
people of this country are citizens of the United States, as
well as of the individual states, and that they have some rights

ROBBINS v. SHELB

TAXING -DISTRICT.

Opinion of the" Court.

under the Constitution and laws of the former independent of
the latter, and free, froii any interference or restraint from
them.
To deny to the state the power to lay the tax, or require
the license in question, will not, in any perceptible degree,
diminish its resources or its just power of taxation. It is very
true, that if the goods when sold were in the state, and. part
of its general mass of property, they would be liable to taxation; but when brought into the state in consequence of the
sale they, will be equally liable; so that, in the end, the state
will derive just as much revenue from them as if they were
there before the sale. As soon as- the goods are in the state
and become part of its general mass of property, they will
become liable to be taxed in the same manner as other property
of similar character, as was distinctly held by this court in
the case of Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S: 622. When goods
are sent from one state to another for sale, or, in consequence
of a sale, they become part of its general property, and amenable to its laws; provided that no discrimination be made
against them as gobds from another state, and that they be
not taxed by reason of being brought from another state, but
only taxed in the usual wayas other goods are. Brown v.
Htouston, qua supra; .3fachine Co. v. Gage, 100 UT. S. 676.
But to tax the sale of such goods, or the offer to sell them,
before they are brought into the state, is a very different
thing, and seems to us clearly a tax on interstate commerce
itself.
It is strongly urged, as if it -were a material point in the
case, that no discrimination ismade between domestic and
foreign drummers - those of Tennessee and those of other
states; that all are taxed alike. But that does not meet the
difficulty. Interstate commerce cannot be taxed at all, even
though the same amount of tax should be laid on domestic
commerce, or that which is carried on solely within the sfate.
This was decided in the case of T1e State _Feight Tax, 15
Wall. 232. The negotiation of sales of goods which are in
another state, for the pmrpose of introducing them into the
state in which the negotiation is made, is interstate commerce.
VOL. cxx-32

OCTOBER TERAM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

A New Orleans merchant cannot be taxed there for ordering
goods from London or iNew York, because, in the c ie case, it
is an act of foreign, and, in the other, of interstate. commerce,
both bf which are subject to regulation by Congress alone.
It would not be difficult, however, to show that the tax
authorized by the State of Tennessee in the present case is discriminative against the merchants and manufacturers of Other
states. They can only sell their goods in Memphis by the
employment of drummers and by-means of samples; whilst
the merchants and manufacturers of Memphis, having regular
licensed houses of business there, have no occasion for such
agents, and, if they had, they are not subject to any tax erefor. They are taxed for their licensed houses, it is true; but
so, it is presumable, are the merchants and manufacturers of
other states in the places where they reside; and. the tax on
drummers operates greatly to their disadvantage in comparison
with the merchants and manufacturers of Memphis. And
such was undoubtedly one of its objects. This kind of taxation is usually imposed at the instance and solicitation of
domestic dealers, as a means of protecting them from foreign
competition. And in many cases there may be some reason
in their desire for such protection. But this shows in a still
stronger light the unconstitutionality of the tax. It shows
that it not only operates as a restriction upon interstate commerce, but that it is intended to have that effect as one of its
principal objects. And if a state- can, in this way, impose
restrictions upon interstate commerce for the benefit and protection of its own citizens, we are brought back to the condition
of things which existed before the adoption of the Constitution,
and which was one of the principal causes that led to it.
If the selling of goods by sample and the employment of
drummers for that purpose, injuriously affect the local interest
of the states, Congress, if applied to, will undoubtedly make
such reasonable regulations as the case may demand. And
Congress alone can do it; for it is obvious that such regulations
should be based on a uniform system applicable to the whole
country, and not left to the varied, .discordant, or retaliatory
enactments of forty different states. The confusion into which

ROBBINS v. SHELBY TAXING DISTRICT.

499

Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C. J., Field, 3., Gray, 3.

the commerce of the country would be thrown by being subject to state.legislation on this subject, would be but a repetition of the disorder which prevailed under the Articles of Confederation.
To say that the tax, if invalid as against drummers from
other states, operates as a discrimination against the drummers
of Tennessee, against whom it is conceded to be valid, is no
argument; because, the state is not bound to tax its own drummers; and if it does so whilst having no power to tax those of
other states, it acts of its own free will, and is itself the author
of such discrimination. As before said, the state may tax its
own internal commerce; but that does not give it any right to
tax interstate commerce.
T/kejudgment of tw Supreme Court of Tennessee is reversed,
and the plaintifin error must be discharged.
MRh. CHIEF JusTIcE

TICE FIELD and MP.

WAITE, with whom concurred Mr,. JusGRAY, dissenting.

usTii

I am unable to agree to this judgment. The case, as I understand it, is this:
In January, 1879, the State of Tennessee abolished the charter of the city of Memphis and created the Taking District of
Shelby County as its successor. By a statute passed April 4,
1881, to provide means for the support of the Taxing. District,
it was, among other thing , enacted "that all drummers and
all persons not having a licensed house of business in the Taxing District, offering for sal6 or selling goods, wares, or merchandise therein by sample, shall be required to pay to the
county trustees the sum of $10 per week,, or $25 per month,
for such privilege, and no license shall be issued for a longer
period than three months."
Sabine Robbins, a citizen of Ohio, employed by the firm of
Rose, Robbins & Co., also citizens of Ohio, engaged in business
as merchants at the city of Cincinnati, in that state, has been
convicted of a violation of this statute because he solicited
trade for his firm in th Taxing District, bythe use of samples,
without a license. This it is now decided was wrong because

500

OCTOBER TERAI, 1886.
Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C.J., Field, J., Gray, J.

the statute under which the conviction was had, in so far as it,
applies to the business in which Robbins was engaged, is a
regulation of interstate commerce, and, therefore, repugnant to
the commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States.
To this I cannot give my assent.
The license fee is demanded for the privilege of selling goods
by sample within the Taxing District. The fee is exacted'from
all alike who do that kind of business, unless they have "
licensed house of business" in 'the district. There is no discriinnation between citizens of the state and citizens of other
states. The tax is uponthe business, and this I have always
understood to be lawful, whether the business was .carried on,
by a citizen of the state under whose authority the exaction
wa made, or a citizen of another state, unless there was discrimination against citizens of other states. In O8borne v.
.Xobile, 16 Wall. 481, it is said "the whole court agreed that
a tax on business parried on within the state, and without discrimination between its citizens and the citizens of other states,
might be constitutionally imposed and collected." And I cannot believe that if Robbins had opened an office for his business
within the Taxing District, at which he kept a-d exhibited his
samples, it would be held that he would not be liable to the
tax, and this whether he stayed there all- the time or came
only at intervals. But what can be the difference in principle,
so far as this question is concerned, whether he takes a room
permanently in a business bloek of the district where, when he
comes, he sends his boxes and exhibits his wares, or engages a
room temporarily at a hotel or private house and- carries on
his business there during his stay? Oi even whether he takes
his sample boxes around with him to his different customers
and shows his wares from them? In either case he goes to the
district to ply his trade and make his sales from the goods he
exhibits. He does not sell those gcods, but he-sells others like
tlem. It is true that his business was to solicit orders for his
principals, but in doing so he bargained for them, carried on
business for them in the district by means of -the samples of
their goods, which had been furnished him for that purpose.
To all intents and purposes le had his goods with him for sale,

ROBBINS v. SHELBY TAXING DISTRICT.

501

Dissenting Opinion: Waite, C. J., Field, J., Gray, 3.

for what he sold was like what he exhibited as the subjects of
sale. I am unable to see any difference in principle between a
tax on a seller by sample and a tax on a peddler, and yet I can
hardly believe it would be contended that the provision of the
same statute now in question, which fixes a license fee for all
peddlers in the district, would be held to be unconstitutional in
its application to peddlers who came with their goods from
another state and expected to go back again.
As the law is valid so far as the inhabitants of the state are
concerned, no inhabitant can engage in this business unless he
pays the tax. If citizens of other states cannot be taxed in
the same way for the same business, there will be discrimination against the inhabitants of Tennessee and in favor of those
of other states. This could never have been intended by the
legislature, and I cannot believe the Constitution of the United
States makes such a thing necessary. The Constitution gives
the citizens of each state all the privileges and immunities of
citizens in the several states, but this certainly does not guarante6 to those who are doing business in states other than their
own immunities from taxation on that business to which citizen s of the state where the business is carried on are subjected.
This case shows the need of such authority in the states.
This Taxing Distfict is situated on the western boundary of
Tennessee. To get into another state it is only necessary to
cross the Mississippi River to Arkansas. It may be said to be
an historical fact that the charter of Memphis was abolished
and the Taxing District established because of the oppressive
debt.of Memphis, and the records of this court furnish abundant evidence of the heavy taxation to which property and business within the limits of both the old corporation and the
new have been for many years necessarily subjected. Merchants in Tennessee are by law required to pay taxes on the
amount of their stocks on hand and a privilege tax besides.
Under these circumstances it is easy to see that if a merchant
from another state could carry on a business in the district :by
sending his agents there with samples of his goods to secure
-orders for deliveries from his stock at home, he would enjoy a

OCTOBER TERM; 1886.

502

Syllabus.

privilege of exemption from taxation which the local merchant
would not have unless in some form he could be subjected to
taxation for what he did in the locality. The same-would be
true in respect to all inhabitants of the state who were sellers
by sample in this district, but who had no place of business
there. And so they, like citizens of other states, were required to pay for the privilege. Thus all were treated alike,
whether they were citizens of Tennessee or of some other
state, and under these circumstances I can see no constitutional objection to such a taxation of citizens of the other
states for their business in the district..
I have -treated the case as a conviction of a "drummer" for
.selling goods by sample. That is what. Robbins was found
guilty of, and that is what this statute makes an offence. The
license is only required of "drummers and all persons not having a licensed house of business in the Taxing District, offering
for sale or selling"goods, wares, or merchandise therein by sample.". The Supreie Court of Tennessee decided that this
means nothing more than that any person who sells by sample shall pay the tax, and to that I agree. It will be time
enough to consider whether a non-resident can be taxed for
merely soliciting orders without having samples when such a
case arises.. That is not this case.

MR.

TUSTIcE

FIELD and AIR. JusnTit GRAY concur in this

dissent.

CORSON v-.MARYLAND.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF MARYLAND.
Argued A ril 5, 1886. -Reargued November 5, 1886.-Decided March 7,1887.

The Code of Maryland provided that "no person or corporation other than
the grower, maker, or manufacturer, shall barter -or sell, or otherwise
dispose of, or shall offer for sale any goods, chattels, wares, or merchandise within the state, without first obtaining a-license in the manner
herein prescribed;" that the application for the license should state on
oath "the amount of said applicant's stock of goods, wares, and mer-

