UNITED STATES v. PACIFIC RAILROAD.
Syllabus.

have been prosecuted in such court to recover thereon if no
assignment had been made, ecept in cases of promissory notes
negotiable by. the law merchant, and bills of exchange." One
of the warrants is payable to Z. King, and the other to Z. King,
or order. The latter is not indorsed by him in blank or to
the order of the plaintiff. Plainly, therefore, upon any view
of the statute, the plaintiff, as the holder or owner of the warrants, could not maintain a suit in the court below, unless
King could have sued in that court, had he not sold the warrants. But it does not appear that King could have maintained.the suit. There is no averment as to his citizenship, nor
does his citizenship otherwise-appear from the record. We
must, therefore, presume, on this writ of error, that th6 Circuit Court was without jurisdiction.
It will be for the court below to determine whether an
amendment of the pleadings upon the point of jurisdiction
will be proper.
The plainfiff in error must pay the costs in this court. Pe2ve
V. Fordyce, .119 U. S. 469 ; Everhart v. ffuntsville College,
ante, 223.
Reverded.

UNITED STATES v. PACIFIC RAILROAD.
PACIFIC IRAILROAD v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF 6LAfts.
Submitted January 10, 1887. -Decided

January 31, 1887.

Thle United States are not responsible for the injury or destruction of
private property caused by theirimili f ry operations during the late civil
war; nor are private parties chargeable for works cousti ucted on their
property by the United States to facilitate such operations.
Accordingly, where bridge, Pn the line of a railroad were destroyed during
the civil war by either of the contending forces, their subsequent rebuilding by the United States as a measure of military necessity, withont the
request of, or any contract with, the owner of the. railroad, imposes no
liability upon such owner.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

THESE were appeals from the Court of Claims.
stated in the opinion of the court.

The case is

Xr. Attorney General and Xr. E. If. Watson for.the United
States.
_Yr. John F. .Dillon and .lfr. James Coleman for the Pacific
Railroad Company.
MfL. JusTIcE FIELD

delivered the opinion of the court.

The Pacific Railroad Company, the claimant in this case, is
a corporation created under the laws of Missouri, and is frequently designated as the Pacific Railroad of that state, to
distinguish it from the Central Pacific Railroad Company
incorporated under the laws of California, and the Union
Pacific Railroad Company incorporated under an act of Congress, each of which is sometimes referred to as the Pacific
Railroad Company.
From the 14th of August, 1867, to the 22d of July, 1872, it
rendered services by the transportation of passengers and
freight, for which the United States are indebted to it in the
sun of $136,196.98, unless they are entitled to offset the cost
of labor and materials alleged t6 have been furnished by them,
at its request, for the construction of certain bridges on the
line of its road. .,The extent and value of the services ren'dered are not disputed. It is-ony the offset or charge for the
bridges which'Is in controversy; and that charge arose in this
"wise: During'the civil war, the State of Missouri was the
theatre otactive military operations. It was on several occasions invaded by Confederate forces, and between them and
the soldiers of the Unioif conflicts were frequent and saugui,nary. The people of the Otate were divided in their allegiance, and the country was ravaged by guerilla bands. The
railroads'of the state, as a matter of course, were damaged by
the contending forces; as each deemed the destruction of that
me 'hs of transportation necessary to defeat or embarrass the
movements of ttk bttier. In October, 1864, Sterling Price, a
noted Confederate officerat the head of a large force, invaded
the state anil advanced rapidly towards St. Louis, approach-

UNITED STATES v. PACIFIC RAILROAD.
Opinion of the Court.

ing to within a few days' march of the city. During this
invasion, thirteen bridges upon the main line and southwestern branch of the company's road were destroyed. General
Rosecrans was in command of the Federal forces in the state,
and some of the bridges were destroyed by his orders, as a
military necessity, to prevent the advance of the enemy. The
record does not state by whom the others were destroyed;
but their destruction having taken place during the invasion,
it seems to have been taken for granted that it was caustd by
the Confederate forces, and this conclusion was evidently
correct. All the bridges except four were rebuilt by the'company. These four were rebuilt by the government, and it is
their cost which the government seeks to offset against the
demand of. the company. Two of the four (one over the Osage
River and one over the Moreau River) were destroyed by
order of the commander of the Federal forces. The other.
two, which were over the M aramee River, it is presumed, were
destroyed by the Confederate forces.
Soon after the destruction of the bridges, and during the
same month, General Rosecrans summoned to an informal
conference, in St. Louis, several gentlemen regarded as proper
representatives of the railroad company, being its president,
the superintendent and the engineer of the road, 4nd several
of the directors. The court below makes the following finding as to what there occurred:
"By General Rosecrans it was stated that the immediate
rebuilding of the: bridges was a military necessitkr; that he
should expect and require the company to do all in their power
to put the roads in working order at the arliest possible moment; and that he intended to haye what work they did not
do done by the government, and withhold from the freight
earnings of the road a sum sufficient to repay the government
for such outlays as in law and fact it should be found entitled
to have repaid.
"The gentlemen present assured General Rosecrans, that
they would-.do all in their power to rebuild the bridges and.
put the roads in working order at the earliest moment, but
they at the same time represented that several of the bridges,

.OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

as they believed, had been destroyed by the proper military
authority of the United States, and that 'n such cases the
government was properly responsible for the loss, and should
replace the bridges. Those which -the public enemy had destroyed they conceded that the company should replace.
"General Rosecrans replied in substance: ' Geritlemen, thh
question of the liability of the government for repairing damages to this road is one of both law and fact, and it is too
early now to undertake. the investigation of that question in
this stirring time. I doubt myself whether all t~e damages'
which you say the government should be responsible for, will
be found liable to -be laid to the charge of the government.
INevertheless, whatever is fair and right I should like to see
done. You tell me now, and I have been informed by some
,of your representatives individually, that the company's means
are - insufficient to make these large repairs and make them
promptly. Therefore, I want to say to you that, as a military
necessity, we must have the work done, and shall be glad to
have the company do everything it can, and I will undertake
to have the remainder done, and we will reserve out of the
freights money enough to make the government good for that
to which it shall be found to be entitled for rebuilding any or
all of the bridges, and we will return the freights to you or
settle with you on principles of law and equity.'
"The gentlemen interested in the company reiterated their
view of the case, that the company should pay for bridges destroyed by the public enemy, and that the government should
replace at its own cost the bridges destroyed by its own military authorities."
The court also finds that these mutual representations and
assurances were not intended or understood on either side to
form a contract or agreement binding on the government or
the comp-ny; that no formal actioll upon them was taken by
the board of directors; and that there was no proof that they
were ever communicated to the directors, except as may be
inferred from subsequent facts and circumstances mentioned;
but that the "bompany, through its directors and officgrs,
promptly exerted itself, to its utmost' power, to restore the

UNITED STATES 'v. PACIFIC RAILROAD.
Opinion of the Court.

roads to running order, and to that end co6perated with the
government.
At the same time, General Ro~ecrans informed-the Secretary'
ef War that the rebuilding of the bridges was "essential, and a
great military necessity " in the defence of the state, and requested that Colonel Myers should be authorized. "to have
them rebuilt at once, the United States to be reimbursed the
cost out of freight on the road." The Secretary referred the
matter to the Quartermast~r General; who recommended that
General. cCall im,Superintendent of M1ilitary. Roads, be directed to take the necessary measures. immediately for that
purpose: The Secretary approved the recommendation, ind
General McCallum was thereupon ordered to cause the bridges
to be rebuilt by the quickest and- surest means possible. It
does not appear that the company had any notice of these
communications or-of the order..
The bridge over the Osage River was destioyed on the 5th
of October; 1864, by order of the officer commanding the 6entral distiict of Missouri, acting under instructions from General Rosecrans to "use every means, in'his power to prevent
the advance of the eneany." "The courtfinds that the destruction was ordered for that 'purp6se, and that the exigency appeared to the officer, and in fact was, of the gravest character,
and an imperative. military necessity. The government rebuilt the bridge at an expensb of .896,152.65; and this sum it
seeks to charge against the company.
The bidge across the. Moreau was also destroyed by command of the same officer, under the same military exigency.
The company commenced its reconstruction, but -before it was
completed, the work was washed away by a freshet in th
river. The government afterwards rebuilt it at an expense
of $30,801; and this sum it also seeks to charge .against the
company.
Th6 two bridges across the Maramec were destioyed during
the invasion, as already stated, but not by the forces of the
United Sta{es. They were, however, rebuilt by the government as a military necessity, at an expense of $54,595.24; and
this sum, also, it seeks to charge against the company. The

OCTOBER TERM,. 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

Court of Claims allowed the cost of three of the bridges to be
charged against the company, but rejected the charge for the
fourth-the one over the Osage River. The United States
and the claimant both appealed from its judgment; the claimant, because the cost of the three bridges was allowed; the
United States, because the charge for one of the four was
disallowed.
The cost of the four bridges rebuilt by the government
amounted to $181,548.89. The question presented is, whether
the company is chargeable with their cost, assuming that there
was no promise on its part, express or implied, to pay for them.
That there.was no express promise is clear. The representa.
tions and assurances'at the conference called by General Rosecrans to urge the rebuilding of the bridges were not intended
or understood to constitute any contract: and it is's6 found,
as abdve stated, by the court below. They were rebuilt by
the government as a military necessity to enable the Federal
forces to carry on military operations, and not on any request
of or contract with the company. As to the two bridges destroyed by the Federal forces, some of the officers of the company at that conference insisted that they should b6- rebuilt
by the government without Zharge'to the company, and,
though they appeared to consider that those destroyed by the
enemy should be rebuilt by the company, there was no action
of the board of directors on the subject. What was said by
them was merely an expression of their individual opinions,
which were not even communicated to the Board. Nor can
any such promise be implied from the letter of the president
of the company to the Quartermaster General in -November,
subsequent to the destruction 'of the bridges, informing him
that the delay of the War Department in rebuilding them had
prompted the company to "unusual resoirces" ; that it was
constructing the bridges over the Gasconade and the Moreau
Rivers, and that the only bl-idge on the main line to be replaced by the government was the one over the Osage River, the
company having replaced all the smaller, and was then replacing all the larger ones. The letter only imparts information
as to the work done and to be done in rebuilding the bridges

UNITED STATES v. PACIFIC RAILROAD.
Opinion of the Court,

on the main line. It contains no promise, as the court below
seems to have thought, that, 'if the government would rebuild
the brilge over the Osage River, it should b reimbursed for
any other it might rebuild on the main line of the company.
Nor do we think that any promise can be implied from the
fact that the company resumed the management and operation of the road after the bridges were rebuilt; but on that
point we will speak hereafter. Assuming, for the present, that
there was no such implication, we are clear that no obligation
rests upon the company to pay for work done, not at its request or for its benefit, but solely to enable the government to
carry on its military operations.
It has been held by this court in repeated instances that,
though the late war was not between independent nations,
yet, as it was between the people of different sections of the
country, and the insurgents were so thoroughly organized and
formidable as to necessitate their recognition as belligerents,
ilhe usual incidents of a war between independent nations
ensued. The rules of -war, as' recognized by the public law of
civilized nations, became applicable to the contending forces.
Their adoption was seen in the exchange of 'prisoners, the
release of officers on parole, the recognition of 'flags of truce,
and other arrangements designed to mitigate the rigors of
warfare. The inhabitants of the Confederate States on the
one hand, and of the states which adhered to the Union on
the other, became enemies, and subject to be trea.td as such,
without regard to their individual opinions or dispositions;
while during its continuance commercial intercourse between
them was forbidden, contracts between them were suspended,
and the courts of each were closed-to the citizens of the other.
Bmown v.. ffiatt, 15 Wall. 17"7 18.The war, whether considered with reference to the number
of troops 'in the field, the extent of military operations, and
the number and character of the engagements, attained proportions unequalled in the history of the present century.
fore than a million of men were in the arniies on each side:
The injury and destruction of private property caused by their
operations, and by measures il'edeAry ifor their safety and

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

'Opinion of the Court.

efficiency, were almost beyond calculation. For all injuries
and destruction which followed necessarily'from these causes
no compensation could be claimed from the government. By
the well settled doctrines of public~law it was not responsible
for them. The destruction or injury of private property in
battle, or in the bombardment of cities and towns, and in
many other ways in the war, had to be borne by the sufferers
alone as one of its consequences. Whatever would embarrass
or impede the advance of the enemy, as the breaking up of
roads, or the burning of bridges, or would cripple and defeat
him, as destroying his means of subsistence, were lawfully
ordered by the commanding general. Indeed, it was his
imperative duty. to direct their destruction. The necessities
of the war called for and justified this. The safety= of the
state in such cases overrides all considerations of private loss.
Salusopuliis then, in truth, supypema lex.
These views are sustained in treatises of text-writers, by the
action of Congress, and by. the language of judicial tribunals.
Re publica v. Sparhawk, 1 Dall. 357; Parham v. The Justices,
9 Geo. 341; Taylor v. .Yashville & Chattanooga Railroad,6
Coldwell, 6-16; .fayor v. lord,.18Wend. 126.
Vattel, in his Law of Nations, speaks of damages sustained
by individuals in war as of two kinds- those done by the
state and those done by the enemy. And after mentioning
those done by the state deliberately and by way of precaution,
as when a field, a house, or a garden, belonging to a private
person, is taken for the purpose of erecting on the spot a town
rampart or other piece of fortification; or when his standing
corn or hls storehouses are destroyed to prevent their being of
use to the enemy; and statingthat such damages are to be made
good to the individual, who should bear only his quota of the
loss, he says: ." B u t there are other damages, caused by inevitable necessity, as, for -instance, the destruction caused by the
artillery in retaking a town from the enemy. These are
merely accidents; they are misfortunes which chance deals
out to the proprietors on whom. they happen to fall. The
sovereign, indeed, ought to show an equitable reg-ard for the
sufferers, if the situation of his affairs will admit of it; but 'no

UNITED STATES v. PACIFIC RAILROAD.
Opinion of the Court.

action lies against the state for misfortunes of this nature for losses which she has occasioned, not wilfully, but through
necessity and by mere accident, in the exertion of her rights.
The same may be said of damages'caused by the enemy. All
the subjects are exposed to such damages; and woe to him
on whom they fall! The members of a society may well
encounter such risk of property, since they encounter a similar
risk of life itself. Were the state strictly to indemnify all,
those whose property is injured in this manner, the public
finances would soon be exhausted, and every individual in the
state would be oblie(f to contribute his share in due proportion, a thing utterly impracticable."
Book III, c. 15, §
232.
Three cases in Congress, one before the House of Representatives in 1'97, and two before the Senate, one in 1822 and
one in 1872, illustrate this doctrine. In the first of thes, a
ir. Frothingham, of Massachusetts, presented a petition to
the House of Representatives, asking compensation for 'a
dwelling-house, the property of his mother, burned at Charlestown, in March, 1'776, by order f General Sullivan, then
commanding the American troops at that place. The Cominittee on Claims, to whom it was referred, made a report
that they found that the house for which compensation was
sought was, with several other buildings in the vicinity, at
that time in possession of the British troops; and that, for
1 Mais d'autres dommages sont causes par une ncessit

inevitable: tels

sont, par ecxemple, les ravages de l'artillerie, dans une ville quc l'on reprend
stir l'enuneini. Ceux-ci sont des accidents, des maux de ]a for'une, pourles
propri~taires sur qui ils tombent. Le souverain doit Cquitablem-nt y avoiAgard, si l'6tat de ses affaires le li permet; ma-s on n'a point d'action contre l1'tat pour des malheurs de cette nature, pour des reftcs qu'il n'a poijit
cauqes librement, mais par n6cessit6 et par ,ccident, en usant de ses droits.
J'ii dis autant des dommages caus6s par 'ennemi. Tons les sujets sont
expos6s Aces loninages; malhcur I. celui sur quiHils tombent! O peut bien,
,lans trc socict6, courir ce risque pour les biens, puisqu'on le court pour
la vie. Si I'Utat devait a la rigucur dd'mmager tons ceux qui perdent de
cette mnanitre, les finances publiques seraient bient~t 6puise6s; il faudrait
que chacur. contriuat du sien, dans une juste proportion, ce qui serait impraticable. Vattel Droit des Gens, Liv. 3, c. 15, § 232; Vol. 3, p. 115, ed.
Pradicr--Fodgre, Paris, 1863.

'OCTOBER

TERM,. 1886.

Opinion of the Court.

the purpose of dislodging them, the general sent .a party of
troops with orders to set fire to the buildings, which was
done accordingly ; and that they apprehended that the loss of
houses and other sufferings by the general ravages of war
'had never been compensated by this or any other govermuent;
that in the history of our Revolution, sundry decisions of
Congress against claims of this nature might be found; and
that the claim presented rested upon the same basis with all
others where sufferings arose from the ravages of war: As
the government had not adopted a general rule to compensate
indlividuals who had suffered in a similar manner, the committee were of opinion that the prayer of the petitioner could
not be granted; and no further action was had upon the claim.
American State Papers, Class XIV, Claims, p. 199.
In the second of "the cases' referred to, a Mr. Villiers, 6f
Louisiana, presented a petition to the House of Representatives, stating that during the invasion of 'the- British in
1814-15, after the enemy had landed near the city of New
Orleans, in order to prevent him from bringing up his cannon
and other ordnance to the city, General Morgan, commanding the Louisiana militia, caused the levee to be cut through,
at or near the plantation of the petitioner, whereby the
greater part of his plantation was inundated, and remained
so till after the departure of the invading army from the
state; that in consequence the petitioner had suffered great
losses in the destruction of his sugar cane, cane plants, and in
the expenses of repairing 'the levee, appraised at $19,250; for
which he prayed compensation. The Committee on Claims,
to whom the petition was referred, recommended that its prayer
should not be granted, on the ground that the losses were
sustained in the necessary operations of war, for which the
United States were not liable; 'and their recommendation was
.adopted. American State Papers, Class XIV, Claims, p. 835;
Annals of Congress, 17th Cong., 1st Sess., Part 1, p. 311.
The third of the cases referred to is that of J. Milton Best,
which was much discussed in the Senate. His claim was for
the value of a dwelling-house and contents destroyed by order
of the officer commanding ihe Union forces in defence of the

UNITED STATES v. PACIFIC RAILROAD.
Opinion of the Court.

city of Paducah, Kentucky, in March, 1864. The city being
attacked by the Confederates in force, the Federal troops,
numbering seven hundred, were withdrawn into Fort Anderson. The claimant's house, which'was about one hundred atnd
fifty yards from the fort, was taken possession of by the sharpshooters of the enemy, who did great execution picking off
men at the guns within the defences. They were driven from
the house by shells from the fort and gunboats, and late that
night- the Confederates retired from their assault without success. They appeared with reinforcements the next morning,
and the Union officer/regarding his command in great peril,
his ammunition being nearly exhausted, gave orders for the
destruction of all houses within musket-range of the fort. The
claimant's loyalty was unquestioned. The officers i4 command
at the post from time to time during the war testified to his
reliability and the effective aid he rendered the Union cause.
The Senate Committee on Claims reported the case as-one
presenting the "simple question of who, shall pay for the destruction of a loyal citizen's property, destroyed by the order
of a commanding officer to save his imperilled army, at the
claimant's home, a place never in-possession of the enemy, and
in a nonseceding state." Upon this question they say: "It
appears to your committee that the facts establish a just claim
against the government for private property taken and destroyed to prevent a greater destruction of its own property
and the massacre of its troops.".
They Teported that "the injuries to the claimant's house, by
shelling out the rebels in the battle of the 25th of March [the
day preceding the destruction of the property], may be r-garded as a casualty by the general ravages of wari which might
properly be deducted from the amount of loss proved by
claimant," and they made what they deemed a proper deduction on that account in the bill presented by them for the payment of the damages. The bill was intended to cover the
value of his property at the time it was burned to prevent its
use by the r~inforced enemy on the following day. In the
debate which followed, it was contended by advocates of the
bill, that while the damage by shelling from our own fort

2 38.

OCTOBER " TERM

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

during the battle came within the ravages of war, the subsequent burning of the house to prevent its being used by the
sharpshooters of the enemy was a taking by the government
of private property for public use, fdr which compensatioi
should be made.
The bill passed in the S~nate January 5, 1871, but was not
acted upon:by the House during that Congress. It again passed
in the Senate, April 8, 1872, and in the House, -May 18, 1872.
It was vetoed by the President June 1, 1872. In his message
to the Senate the President, after speaking of the claim as one
for compensation on account of the ravages of war, and observing that its payment would invite the presentation of
demands for very large ums of money against the government
for necessary and unavoidable destruction of property by the
army, said: "It is a general principle of both international
and'inunicipal law tht all property is held subject, not only
to bi taken by the government for public uses, in which case,
under the Constitution of the IJhited States, the owner is en-titled to just compensation, but also subject to be temporarily
occupied, or even actually destroyed, in times of great public,
danger, and wbn the public safety demands it; and in this
latte, case governments do not admit -a legal obligation on
their part t9 compensate the owner. The temporary occupation of, injuries to, and destruction of property caused by
actual and necessary military operations, is genera~ly considered to fall within the lastmentioned principle. If a government makes compensation under such circumstances, it is a
matter of bounty rather than of strict legal right." Cong.
Globe, 42d Cong., 2d Sess., Part V, p. 4155.
The message was referred to the Committee on Claims, and
on the 7th of February, 1873, it was reported back with a
recommifendation that the bill be passed, the objections of the
President to the contrary notwithstandiig. On the 241th of
the same month, the bill was reached on the calendar and was
passed over upon objection. No furthersaction was ever taken
upon it in the Senate,, and consequently it never reached the
House.
The claim has been repeatedly presented to Congress since,

UNITED STATES v. PACIFIC RAILROAD.
Opinion of the Court.

but has never been considered by either House.- The principle
that, for injuries to or destruction of private property in necessary military operationis during the civil war, the government
is not responsible is thus consideed established. Compensation has been made in several such cases, it is true; but it has
generally been, as stated by the President in: his veto message,
"a matter of bounty rather than of strict legal right."
In what we have said as to the, exemption of government
from liability for private property injuv-ed or destroyed during
war, by the operations of armies in the field, or by measures
necessary for their safety and efficiency; we do not mean to
include claims where property of loyal citizens is taken for the
service of our armies, such as vessels, steamboats, and the like,
for the transport of troops and munitions of war; or buildings
to be used as storehouses and places of deposit of war material,,
or to house soldiers or take care of'the sick, or claims for supplies seized and appropriated. In such cases, it has been- the
practice of the government to make compefisation for the
property taken. Its obligation to do so is supposed to rest
upon the general principle of justice that compensation should
be made where private property is taken for public use,
although the seizure and appropriation of private property
under such circumstances'by the military authorities may not
be within the terms of the constitutional clause. .Jfitcell v.
Harmony, 13 How. 115, 1341; .United States.v. Bussel, 13
Wall. 623.
While the government cannot be charged for injuries to, oi
destruction of, private property. caused by military operations
of armies in the field, or measures taken for their safety andefficiency, the, converse of the doctrine is equ£lly true, that
private parties cannot be charged for works constacted on
their lands by the government to further the operations of its
armies. Military necessity will justify the destruction of property, but will not compel private parties to erect on their own
lands works needed by the government, or to pay for such
works when erected by the government. The cost of building
and repairing roads and bridges to facilitate the movements of
troops, or the transportation of supplies and munitions of war,
must, therefore, be borne by the government.

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

It is true that in some instances the works thus, constructed
may, afterwards, be used by the owner; a house built for a
barrack, or for the storage of supplies, or for a temporary
fortification, might be converted to some purposes afterwards
by the owner of the land, but *thatcircumstance would impose
no liability upon him. Whenever a structure is permanently
affixed to real property belonging to an individual, without
his consent or request, he cannot be held responsible because
of its subsequent use. It becomes his by being annexed to the
soil; and he is not obliged to remove it to escape liability.
*He is not deemed to have accepted it so as to incur an obligation to pay for it, merely because he has not chosen to tear it
down, but has seen fit to use it. Zottman v. San Francisco,
20 Cal. 96, 107. Where structures are placed on the property
of another, or repairs are made to them, he is supposed to
*have the right to determine the manner, form, and time in
which the structures shall be built, or the repairs be made, and
the materials to be used; but upon none of these matters was
the company consulted 'in the case before us. The government regarded the interests only of the army; the needs or
wishes of the compally were not considered. No liability,
therefore, could be fastened upon it for work thus done.
We do not find any adjudged cases on this particular point;
*hether the government can claim compensation for structures
'erected on land of private parties, or annexed to their property,
not by their request, but as a matter of military necessity, to
enable its armies to prosecute their movements with greater
efficiency; and we are unable to recall an instance where such
a claim has been advanced.
it follows from these views, that the government can make
no charge against the railroad company for the four bridges
constructed by it from military necessity. The court will
leave the parties where the war and the military operations of
the government left them.
The judgment of the 6urt of Claims must, therefore, be
reversed, and judgment be entered for the full amount
claimed by the railr'oadcom2pany for its services; and it
is so ordered.

QUINCY v. STEEL.
Counsel for Appellant.
United ,States"' v. Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company.
Same counsel as in the last case. Mr. Justice Field delivered the
opinion of the court. It is agreed by counsel of the parties that
this case involves the same question as that decided in United Statt.
v. Pacific Railroad, and, therefore, on the authority of that
decision, the judgment below is
Affirmed.

QUINCY v. STEEL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted January 4, 1887.-

Decided January 31, 1887.

The city of Quincy, Illinois, in 1877 contracted with an Illinois corpoiation
to supply it with gas for four years. Disputes arose, payments were in
arrear, and in May, 1881, the city notified the company that it would be
no longer bound by the contract. A, a citizen of Alabama, on the 13th,
August, 1885, filed a bill in equity in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Southern District of Illinois, setting forth that the company had a
claim against the city recoverable at law, that he had at different times
tried to induce the directors to enforce it, that he was, and for more than
four years had been, a stockholder in the company, that he had not succeeded in inducing the directors to institute suit, that his last request
was made August 1, 1885, that the claims were about to be barred by'the
statute of limitations, and he asked for a mandamus to compel the payment of the company's debt. The respondent demurred. This court sustains- the demurrer, on the ground that the real contest being between
two Illinois corporations, the proper remedy was an action at law by one
of those corporations against the otherupon the contract, and that A has
not, by the averments in his bill, brought himself within the directions
prescribed by Equity Rule 94, 104 U. S. ix-x, respecting suits brought by
stockholders in a corporation against 'the cor'poration and other parties,
founded on rights which might be properly asserted by the corporaton.

Tmis was a bill in equity. Respondent demurred. Decree
for complainant, from which respondent appealed. The case
is stated in the opinion of the court.
-Yr. George A. Anderson, _3r. Joselh N. Carter, -Mr.Willianm H. Govert, and -2M. L. . Berger for appellants.
VOL. cxx-16

