OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

MARTIN

TIIOMPSON.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF GAIFORNIA.
Submitted January 24, 18S7.-Decided February 7, 1887.

An action at law in a state court of California by A against B, to recover
the value of a crop raised on laud occupied by B who claims as preamptor,
adversely to A, claiming under the State, by B's labor and at B's expense,
does not involve the title to the land, and the issue presents no Federal
question.

Tis was a motion to dismiss, united with a motion to affirm.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.AIr. 21ich. .ilbdlany for the motion.
No appearance against it.
Mr.CmiinF

JUSTicE WAiTE

delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought by Martin, the defendant in error in
D ,'and & TAonzptson v. _lfartin, just decided, to recover of
Thompson, one of the plaintiffs in error, a crop of wheat raised
by him during the year 1878 on the land described in that case,
which he took from the possession. of Martin in 1876,and occupied adversely thereafter. -The cout has found as a fact that
Martin never had possessipn of the crop before the commencement of this suit, and that it was raised by Thompson with his
own labor and at his own expense while he held exclusive possession of the land adversely to Martin and claiming title.
From this it is clear that the question of the title to the land
was not necessarily involved in this case, and on looldng into
the opinion, which in California forms partof the record, we
find that the decision was put entirely on the ground that the
owner of land out of possession catinot recover from one in
possession, holding adversely under claim of title, the crops
raised by him in cultivating the soil. The remedy in such a

SPEIDEL v. HENRICI.
Statement of Facts.

case is by an appropriate action for the recovery of the possession of the land and damages for the detention. This does not

present a Federal question, and
-Themotion to dismiss is granted.

SPEIDEL v. UEN-RIOI.
APPEAT

FROM THE CIROUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued December 14, 1886.-Decided March 7, 18S7.

The general rule that express trusts are not within the statute of limita'tions does not apply to a trust openly disavowed by the trustee with the
knowledge of the cestui que trust.
Implied trusts are barred by. lapse of time.
A court of equity will not assist one who has slept upon his rights, and
shows no excuse for his laches in asserting them.
If a bill in equity shows upon its face that the plaintiff, by reason of lapse
of timne and of his own laches, is not entitled to relief, the objection
may be taken by demurrer.
A bill in equity against persons holding a fund avowedly in trust for the
common benefit of the members of a voluntary association, living together as a-commuhity and subject to its regulations, cannot, whether
the trust is lawful or unlawful, be maintained by one who has left the
community, and for fifty years afterwards taken no step to claim any
interest in the fund.

Tins was a bill in equity, filed June 7, 1882, by Elias
Speidel, a citizen of Ohio, against Jacob Herici and Jonathan
Lenz, trustees of-the Harmony Society of Beaver County in
the State of Pennsylvania, and citizens of Pennsylvania, and

containing the following allegations:
That the plaintiff's parents lived in the kingdom of Wurtemburg in Germany up to the year 180-, "engaged in farming
and well to do, and without any education or knowledge of
the world or of business, but devout Christians, members of
,the Established Protestant Church of that country, and earnest
seekers after §piritual light and their salvation."
That at the same time there lived in the same neighbor-

