UNITED STATES v. PARKER.
Opinion -of the Court.

are of opinion that, as a matter of fact, and even concedingthat A-.B. Cook was a competent witness, the assignment by
him to his w ife is not gatisfactorily proved to have been made
or delivered prior to the transaction of June 14, 1880. The
evidence on that point is conflicting, and it would not be pyofitable to discuss it in detail. As the suit cannot be maintained
without proof of the assignment,
The decree i8 affirmed.

UNITED STATES 'v. PARKER.
ERROR TO THE Cmcurr COURT OP THE ItITED STATES FOR TE
DISTRICT OF NEVADA.
Argued January 3,1837.-

Decided January 24, 1537.

A judgment entered upon motion of defendant's attorneT of record that "it
appearing that the subject-matter in this suit has been adjusted and
settled by the parties, it is therefore ordered that this cause be, and the
same is, hereby dismissed," is a judgment on the merits, final in form
and nature, and is a bar to a subsequent suit against the defendant for
the same cause of action. This rule also prevails in Nevada by statute.
Geu. Stat. Nevada, 1885, § 3173.
The difference between a retraxit and a non-suit pointed out.
As pleadings in Nevada are required to be construed in a sense to support
the cause of action or defence, and as facts in the record not fully set
forth in defendant's plea clearly show that the cause of action sued on
in this case is the cause of action in'the judgment pleaded in bar; Hehd:
that the defendant's plea sufficiently avers allthe facts necessary to constitute the former judgment a bar to this action.

.fMr. Solicitor General for plaintiff in error.
.Mr'. . J. illyer for defendants in error.
Stewart was with him on the brief.
MR.

TusTICE

MATTHEWS

.Mr'. T[Villam X.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action at law commenced by the United States,
on the 18th of November, 1885, against Hubbard G. Parker,
as principal, and William AM.Stewart, as surety, upon an offi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court

cial bond executed on the 12th day of March, 1861, in the
penal sum of $20,000, the condition of which was that, whereas
the said Hubbard G. Parker had been appointed superintendent
of Indian affairs for Nevada, and had accepted such appointment, if the said Hubbard G. Parker should at all times carefrilly discharge the duties thereof, and faithfully expend all
public moneys and honestly account for the same, and for all
public property which should or might come into his'hands,
Swithout fraud or delay, the obligation should be void.
It is alleged' in the complaint, that, after the execution of
the bond, and while the defendant Parker still held 6nd remained in said office, and prior to November. 18, 1869, the
plaintiff placed in his hands various and sundry large sums of
money, to be expended by -him for the benefit of the Indians
of Nevada, and to be properly accounted for by him. That
on said November 18, 1869, "there, then, and ever since has
remained and now remains of said moneys in said defendant
Parker's hands, unexpended and unaccounted for, the sum of
$6184.14;1 and he having failed to account for or to return
the same to the plaintiff, judgment is prayed for against the
defendants for that amount, with interest thereon at the rate
of six per cent. per annum from: November 18, 1869.
The defendants filed the following answer:
"That heretofore, to wit, on the 27th day of November,
A.D. 1871, the above-named plaintiff commenced an action in
the Circuit Court of the United States, Ninth Circuit and
District of Nevada, against said above-named defendants, upon
the official bond of the defendant Hubbard G. Parker, as
superintendent of Indian affairs for Nevada, (the same identical
bond as set out in the complaint herein,) to recover the sum
of fifteen thousand one hundred and eight and .f%. ($15,108.62)
dollars, together with interest and costs. That said action
was commenced by the filing of a complaint and the issuance
of summons thereon in due form of law. That the said defendants appeared in said action by their attorneys, Ellis & King,
and on, to wit, December 15, A.D. 11871, filed their answer
to the complaint, and, among other things, denied that there
was any balance due the United States from the said defend-

UNITED STATES v. PARKER.
Opinion of the.Court.

ant, Hubbard G. Parker, as superintendent of Indian affairs
for Nevada, or otherwise. That said United States Circuit
Court had jurisdiction of the parties and the subject-matter
of said action.
"That afterwards, and on, to wit, the 1st day of December,
A.D. 1873, said cause came-on for trial 'm the said Circuit
Court of the United States and District of Nevada, before
Hon. Lorenzo Sawyer, Circuit Judge, and Hon. E. W. Hillyer,
United States District Judge for Nevada, the plaintiff being
represented by its duly authorized and appointed attorney for
the District of Nevada, Jonas Seely, and the defendants being
represented by their attorneys, Messrs. Ellis & King.
"That thereupon the defendants, by their attorneys, presented to the court a statement of accounts duly certified by
the Second Auditor and Second Comptroller of the Treasury
Department of plaintiff, showing that said defendant Hubbard
G. Parker's accounts with the United States as superintendent
of Indian affairs for Nevada had been settled and adjusted,
and that the said defendant Parker was discharged from all
claims of the United States as superintendent of Indian affairs
for Nevada, or otherwise, and that said Parker was not indebted to the United States in any sum whatever as superintendent of Indian affairs for Nevada, or otherwise.
"Whereupon in open court, on motion of defendants' attorneys, th6 district attorney representing the United States c6ns3nting thereto, the following judgment was duly made and
entered, to wit :
"' Upon motion of Ellis & King, attorneys for defendants,
and it appearing to the court that the subject-matter in this
suit has been adjusted and settled by the proper parties in
Washington, it is therefore ordered that this cause be, and the
same is, hereby dismissed.'
."Defendants further aver that said judgment so as aforesaid
made and entered is a bar to any and all claims of. the plaintiff
in this action against each and all of the .said defendants, and
that the said plaintiff is estopped thereby, and ought not to
have or maintain this action.
"And for further and separate answer defendants aver that

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

on the 21st day of June, A.D. 1872, the said defendant Hubbard G. Parker, as superintendefilt of Indian affairs for Nevada,
made a full settlement with proper officers of the United
States of all his a cc6unts as superintendent of Indian affairs
for Nevada, and his accounts were finally adjusted and settled
by the Second Auditor and Second Comptroller of the Treasury Department of plaintiff, whereby he was fully discharged
from all obligations and demands of the United. States as
superintendent of Indian affairs for Nevada., or otherwise.
"Defendants further aver that the pretended claim against
these defendants for six thousand one hundred and eighty-four
and -q ($6184.14) dollars is founded upon a pretended ':eadju-'ment of the accounts of the said defendant Parker by the
Second Audito' -and Second Comptroller' of the Treasury
Department of plaintiff, made on the 25th day of June, A.D.
1884, and that such pretended readjutment was made without
authority of law. That the said settlement and adjustment
made on the 21st day of June, A.D. 1872, aforesaid, was final
and conclusive, and a bar to the pretended claim for $61 84.14
.herein,-or any claim of the United States against these defendants, or either of them."
To this answer the plaintiff demurred, on the ground that
it did not state facts sufficient to constitute a bar to the cause
of action set out in, the complaint. This demurrer was overruled; and, the attorney for the plaintiff resting his case upon
the demurrer, judgment was entered in favor of the defendants, to reverse which the United States have sued out and
now prosecute this writ of error.
In the view which we take of the case, it is not necessary to
consider the validity of the second defence set up in the answer. The points relied upon by the plaintiff in error, so far
as the, first defence is concerned, are, 1st, that*the former
judgment relied on as an estoppel does not appear to be for
the same cause of action as that on which recovery is now
sought; and, 2d, that the judgment is not a final judgment on
the merits. The two actions are upon the same bond, but it
is alleged that it does not sufficiently appear that the recovery
sought 'in the two actions is upon the same breach. In the

UNITED STATES v. PARKER.
Opinion of the Court.

first action the amount alleged to be due was $15,108.62, the
action having been.brought November 27, 1871. On the trial
on December 1, 1873, the averment is that the defendants
presented to the court a statement of accounts, duly certified
by the Second Auditor and Second Comptroller of the
Treasury Department, showing thit the defendant Parker's
accounts with the United States as superintendent of Indian
affairs for Nevada had been settled- and adjusted, and that
Parker was thereby discharged from all claims of the United
States against him as superintendent of Indian affairs for
Nevada, or otherwise, and that said Parker was not indebted
to the United States in any sum whatever as superintendent
of Indian affairs for Nevada, or otherwise.
It is stated, by way of recital in the judgment itself, that it
tis appeared to the court, "that the subject-matter in this
slut has been adjusted and settled by the proper parties in
This recital, together with the judgment
Washington."
founded on it, was entered by the consent of the attorney
representing the United States, who thus in open court officially adhnitted the effect of the evidence to be as clahed.
The present action was begun on the 18th of November, 1885,
but the breach alleged occurred on November 18, 1869, the
judgment demanded being for the amount stated then to have
become due, with interest thereon from that date. The cause
of action, therefore, arose and existed at that time, and if in
existence now it must have been so at the date of the trial of
the first action, to wit, December, 1) 1873. It is, therefore, a
fair and reasonable, if not a necessary, inference that the
amount alleged to be due in the present action was part of
the larger amount sought to be recovered in the former action.
It is not material-that the two stuns are not identical; it is
sufficient that the smaller was part of the larger amount. In
the first cause there might have been a recovery, if the proof
had justified* for a sum less than that demanded. It was
found and adjudged by te court in that cause, not only that
the whole sum demanded was not due, but that there was.
nothing due from the defendant to the United. States; and if
nothing was then due, the amount now sought to be recovered

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

must have been adjudged not to have been due; for if due
now, according to the averments of the complaint, it was due
from a "time prior to the date of that trial and judgment.
is that it was due on and from November 18,
.The
1869.averment
It may be, according to the rule ofp.Leacang at common
law, where a former juddm'dnt is set up* by way .of a bar to
the action as an estoppel, the plea in this case would not be
regarded as sufficiently 'ertain, for want of an express'averment that the amount sought to be recovered in this action
was part of the same amount sought to be recovered in the
prior action. But the rules of the common law as to pleading
are not in force in Nevada, where the procedure is regulated
by a statutory code, which governs the practice of the courts
of the United States sitting therein in comfmon law cases by
virtue of § 914 of the Revised Statutes. This code, like other
similar codes regulating the practice of the state courts, has
relaxed the strictness bf the common law rulei of pleading,
so that now, instead of construing pleadings strictly against
the party, they are to be construed liberally in his favor, for
the furtherance of justice.
Section 70 of the Civil Procedure Act of the State of Nevada,
approved Mfarch 8, 1869 (Laws of 1869, p. 206), being § 3092
of the General Statutes of Nevada of 1884, is as follows: "In
the construction of a pleading for the purpose of determining
its effect, its allegations shall be liberally construed with a
view to substantial justice between the paries."
In commenting on this section, the Supreme Court of Nevada,
in _Ferguson v. Tirginia& Truckee Ratiload,13 Nevada, 184,
191, uses the following language: "But the rule of construing
pleadings most strongly against a pleader has been replaced in
this state by the more liberal rule prescribed in § 70 of
the Practice Act. This section is the sam4 as § 159 of the
New York Code. The result of the decisions in that state
seems to be, that, on a general demurrer, the allegations of a
complaint will be construed as liberally in favor of the pleader
as, before the code, they would have'i~een construed after the
verdict for the plaintiff. That il, they will be construed in
such a sense as to support the cause of action or the defence.

UNITED STATES v. PARKER.
Opinion of the Court.

Moak's Van Santvoord's IT, 3d ed., side page 771 et seq., and
cases cited. In this state a similar doctrine has been declared
in State v. Central Pacij*e 0o., 7 Nevada, 99, 103."
Applying this rule, it becomes quite clear that the pleading
in question sufficiently avers all the facts necessary to constitute
the former judgment, a bar to the present action'.
The second question is, whether the judgment rendered in
the first action was final. It is claimed to be equivalent only
to a non-suit, and therefore not resjudicata. A judgment of
non-suiit,whether rendered because of the failure of the plaintiff
to appear.and prosecute his action, or because upon the trial
he fails to prove the particulars necessary to ifiake good his
action, or when rendered by consent upon an agreed statement
of facts, is not conclusive as an estoppel, because- it does not
determine the rights of the parties. Hfomer v. Brown, 16 How.
354; 3fan71attan life Is. 6o. v. Brougtlon, 109 U. S. 121;
lHa7.demam v. United States, 91 U. S. 584. But a non-suit is to
be distinguished from a retraxit. .Minor v. fJfecianics' Bank,
1 Pet. 46. lBlackstone defines the difference as follows: "A
retraxitdiffers from a non-suit in this: one is negative and the
other positive. The non-suit is a mere default or neglect of
the plaintiff, and therefore he is allowed to begin his suit again
upon payment of costs; but a retraxit is an open, voluntary
renunciation of his claim in court, and by this he forever loses
his action." 3 Blackstone Com. 296. And it has been held
that a judgment of dismissal, when based upon and entered in
pursuance of the agreement of the parties, must be understood,
in the absence of anything to the contrary expressed in the
agreement and contained in the judgment itself, to amount to
such an adjustment of the merits of the controversy, by the
parties themselves through the judgment of the court, as will
constitute a defence to another action afterwards brought upon
the same-cause of action. Bank of Commonweait v. fop kins,
2 Dana, 395; 3lferritt v. Campbell, 47 Cal. 542. It is clearly
so, when, as here, the judgment recites that the subject-matter
of the suit had been adjusted and settled by the parties. This
is equivalent to a judgment that the plaintiff had no cause of
action, because the defence of the defendant was found to be

OCTOBER TERAI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

sufficient in law and true in fact. Upon general principles of
the common law, regulating the practice and procedure of
courts of justice, it must be held that the judgment here in
. question was rendered upon the merits of the case, is final in
its form and nature, and must have the effect of a bar to the
)resent action upon the same cause.
If its effect is to be determined by the statutes of Nevada,
the same conclusion will be reached. The Civil Practice Act
of that state, passed March 8, 1869, Gen. Stat. Nevada., 1885,
3173, is as follows:
"An action may be dismissed or a judgment of non-suit
entered in the following cases: First. By the plaintiff himself
at any time-before trial, upon the payment of costs, if a counter-claim has not been made. If a provisional remedy has
been allowed, the undertaking shall thereupon be delivered by
the clerk to the defendant, who may have his action thereon.
Second. By either party upon the written consent of the other.
Third. By the court when the plaintiff fails to appear on the
trial, and the defendant appears and asks for the dismissal.
Fourth. By the court, when upon trial and before the final submission of the case the plaintiff abandons it. Fifth. By the
court, upon motion of the defendant, when upon the trial the
plaintiff fails to'prove a sufficient case for the jury. The dismissal mentioned in the first two subdivisions shall be made
by an entry in the clerk's register. Judgment may thereupon
be entered accordingly. -In every other case the judgment
shall be rendered on the merits."
It thus appears that there are five instances in which the
dismissal of an action has the force only of a judgment of
non-suit; "in every other case," the statute provides,- "the
ju(gment shall be rendered on the merits." If the case at bai'
is not included among the enumerated cases in which a dismissal is equivalent to a non-suit, it must, therefore, lie a judgment
on the merits. In the present case the suit was not dismissed
by the plaintiff himself before trial, nor by one party upon the
written consent of the other, nor by the court for the plaintiff's failure to appear on the trial, nor by the court at the trial
for an abandonment by the plaintiff of his cause; neither was

HUNTINGTON

v. WORTHEN.

Syllabus.

it a dismissal by the court upon motion of the defendant, on
the ground that the plaintiff had failed to prove a sufficient
,case for the jury at the trial. The judgment was rendered
upon the evidence offered by the defendants, which could only
have been after the plaintiff had made out aprimafaciecase.
That evidence was passed upon judicially by the court, who
determined its effect to be a bar to the cause of action. This
was confirmed by the consent of the attorney representing the
United States. The judgment of dismissal was based on the
ground of the finding of the court, as matter of fact and matter
of law, that the subject-matter of the suit'had been so adjusted
and settled by the parties that ihere was no cause of action
then existing. This was an asce:%ainment judicially that the
defence relied upon was valid and sufficient, and consequently
was a: judgment upon the merits, finding the issue for the
defendants. Being, as already found, for the same cause of
action as now sued upon, it operates as a bar to the present
suit by way of estoppel.
Te judgment isafflwvmed.

HUNTINGTON v. WORTHEN.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES. FOR

TE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.

LITTLE ROOK & FORT S]MITH RAILWAY v.
WORTHEN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.
Submitted January 6,1887.-Decided January24, 1887.

The statute of Arkansas of March 31, 1883, § 46, whichdirects the board
of railroad commissioners not to include the embankments, tunnels, cuts,
ties, trestles, or bridges of railroads in the schedule of the property of
railroad companies, prepared by them for the purpose of assessment of
taxes, is in conflict with the provisions in the Constitution of the State
of 1874, relating to the assessment and taxation of property within the
state.
VOL. cxx-7

