LACLEDE, BANK v. SCHULER.
Opinion-ofthe Court.

LACLEDE BANK v. SCHULER.
SCHULER V. LACLEDE BANK.
APPEALS

FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT

Or THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Submitted January 7,1887. -Decided

March 7, 1887.

Without deciding the mooted question whether a check or draft of a person
on a bank ifi which he has deposits operates as an equitable assignment of
the fund so on deposit to the holder ef the check to the amount of it, it
is clear that such check or draft does not bind the fund in the hands of
the bank until it has notice of the draft or check by presebtation for payment. or otherwise.

Until then, other checks drawn afterward may be paid, or other assigfiments of the fund, or part of it, may secure priority by giving prior
notice.

APPEA. and cross-appeal from a decree upon a bill in
equity, filed by Schuler against, the' Laclede Bank. The case

is stated in the opinion of the court.
Jfr. David P. Dyer for Schuler.
_1r. J. E.

cfEeigan for the Laclede Bank and Craig.

MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal and cross-appeal from a decree of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Missouri.
Harrison B. Schuler, a citizen of the state of Kansas,
brought his bill in that court against the Laclede Bank, a corporation under the laws of the state of Missouri, and j. T.
Craig, a citizen of the state of Texas. The substance of the
bill is, that the plaintiff is the-owner and holder of a draft, or
bank check, drawn by C. W. Israel & Co. on the Laclede
Bank, for the sum of $11,250.00, dated at Henrietta, Texas,
October 21), 1885, in favor of the plaintiff, which was duly
presented for payment on the 26th day of that month; And

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

that payment was refused, as the Laclede Bank alleged, on
the ground that 0. W. Israel & Co., the drawers of the draft,
had, on October 24, 1885, made an assignment under the laws
of Texas for the benefit of their creditors, of which the said
Laclede Bank had been advised by telegraph. . The bill, proceeds upon the idea that there Were funds in the hands of the,
Laclede Bank to the credit of C. W. Israel & Co. on the presentation of said check for payment, which ought to be applied
for that purpose, and charges that, notwithstanding the genoral assignment for the benefit of creditors made by C. W.
Israel & Co. on October 24, 1885, the check in question, made
in favor of the plaintiff on October 20, 1885, was an assignment or appropriation of so much of those fuiids to the
benefit of complainant which he is entitled to enforce in this
suit.
J. T. Craig, who had become substituted for Davidson, the
assignee of C. W. Israel & Co., was also made a party to the
suit, and appeared and filed an answer.
. The apswer of the Laclede Bank, while admitting most of
the statements made in the bill, is very long and-recites many
things not material to the issue as we look upon it, but relies
upon two substantial defences to the suit. The first of these
is, that on the morning of the 26th day of October, 1885, it
received the following telegram from C. W. Israel &' Co. :
"Hlenarietta, Texas, 24, [meaning the 24th of October,] Laclede
Bank, St. L.: We assigned this da r in favor of S. Davidson ;
hold funds subject to his order. C. W, Israel & Co." It alleges
that this telegram was forwarded to the bank as a night
message on Saturday night, and, although duly received at
the telegTaph -office, was only delivered at 8 o'clock on Ionday morning, and that the check in favor of complainant was
presented at the opening of the bank at 1-0.15 on the same
morning, which was the first notice that they had of it. The
answer insists that the general assignment, with the notice of
it by telegraph, was a complete revocation of the Schuler
check, as well as all other checks drawn against this defendant
by C. W: Israel & Co., and that the assignment, with this prior
notice to the bank, vested in the assignee the better right to

LACLEDE BANK v. SCHULER.
Opinion of the Court.

any funds of said C. W. Israel & Co. in the hands of the bank
The answer also sets"up transactions between -C. W. Israel &
Co. and the bank by which said C. AV. Israel & Co. would be
indebted on a settlement of the transactions between the two
banks to the Laclede Bank in a sum beyond anything which
they then held on deposit to the credit of 0. W. Israel & Co.
A part, however, of the transactions which go to make up this
claim of set-off against C. W. Israel & Co. consisted of a note
or notes discounted by the Laclede Bank for said C. W. Israel
& Co., but which hadinot yet matured. The answer also sets
up that C. W. Israel & Co. and the Laclede Bank were corresponding banks, one being in Texas and the other in St.
Louis, Missouri, and that there had been a long course of dealing between them, and for this reason they had discounted
the notes of C. W. Israel & Co. without any other sufficient
security.
Craig, as assignee for C. W. Israel & Co., filed a separate
answer, in which he sets out mainly the same matters found
in the answer of the Laclede Bank, and 'he also makes a part
(f his answer the assignment of C. W. Israel & Co. to
Davidson for the benefit of all their creditors.
There were no replications to either of these answers, but
a stipulation is fied in regard to facts that are agreed upon
by the parties, which. closes with this paragraph: "All other
facts in the bill and answer not inconsistent herewith are to
be taken as part of this agfeed statement."
The decree of the court was as follows:
"This cause came on for hearing at this term of the court
on the bill of complaint, answers of defendants, and stipulations on file, and the court, being fully advised concerning
the premises, finds that at the date of the presentation to the
said Laclede Bank of the check set out in the bill of complaint
there was to the credit of the account of 0. W. Israel & Co.
in said bank the sum of $5912.41 subject to the payment
of said check, and that said check operated in equity as an
assignment of said sum as against said defendants to said
complainant.
"It is, therefore, ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the
VOL. cxx-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

said complainant have and recover of and from said defendants the said sum of $5912.41, together with interest at six
per cent. per annum from the 26th day of October, 1885,
amounting to $6073.99, and it is further ordered that execution issue therefor against said defendant, the Laclede Bank."
From this decree both Schuler and the bank appealed.
The assignee, Craig, did not appeal.
The question of how far and under what circumstances a
check of a deposifor in a bank will be considered an equitable
assignment to the payee of the check, of all or any portion of
the funds or deposits to the credit of the drawer in the bank,
is one which has been very much considered of late years in
the courts, and about which there is not a unanimity of opinion. In this court it is very well settled that such a check,
unless accepted by the bank, will not sustain an action at law
by the drawee against the bank, as there is no privity of
contract between them. 3farine Bank v. Fulton Bank, 2
Wall. 252; Bank qf ?epublic v. 3fillard, 10 Wall. 152; First
.Afational Bank of Vashingtan v. Witman, 9- U. S. 343.
But while this may be considered as the established doctrine of this court in regard to the rights of the parties at law,
and is probably" the prevailing doctrine in nearly all the
courts, it is urged in this case and several respectable courts
have so decided, that such a check is an appropriation of the
amount for which it is drawn of the funds of the drawer in
the hands of the bank. Roberts v. Austin, Corbin & Co., 26
Iowa, 315; Fogaties v. State Bank, 12 Rich. (S. C.) Law,
518 [S. C. 'T8 Am. Dec. 468]; Milunn v. Bureh, 25 Ill. 32;
German Savings Inst. v. Adae, 1 McCrary C. C. 501.
But however this doctrine may operate to secure an equitable interest in the fund deposited in the .bank to the credit
of the drawer after notice to the bank of the check, or presentation to it for payment- a question which we do not
here decide- we are of opinion, that, as to the bank itself.
the holder of the fund, and its duties and obligations in regard
to it, the bank remains unaffected by the execution of such a
check until notice has been given 6o it or demand made upon
it for its payment.

LACLEDE BANK v. SCHULER.
Opinion of the Court

In the case before us -it is a conceded fact that before the
bank had any knowledge or notice whatever of the check on
which the plaintiff brings this suit, it had received a distinct
notification from the drawer of that check that he had made
a general assignment for the benefit of his creditors, with an
express direction to holdthe funds subject to the order of the
assignee. Therefore, even if the check could be congidered as
an attempt on the part of C. W. Israel & Co. to assign or
appropriate this amount in the hands of the bank to Schuler,
the general assignmant for the benefit of all their creditors of
all their assets, including those in the hands of the bank, was
made and brought to the attention of the bank with directions
to turn them over to this assignee before it had any notice of
the check in favor of Schulen.
The learned judge who decided the case on the circuit rested
his judgment, in an opinion which is found in the record, on
the proposition that, as between these two equities, namely,
the equities of the general creditors under the assignment to
Davidson, and this implied assignment in equity by the drawing of the cheek, the latter was superior. In this it would
seem that he was somewhat influenced by the fact that he
was enabled to trace the sources of some of the deposits to
the credit of 0. W. Israel & Co., in the Laclede Bank, to
money which in a roundabout way had been collected for the
payment of a debt to Schuler, and had finally been deposited
to the credit of C. W. Israel & Co. in the Laclede Bank. But
there is no allegation in the bill, nor any evidence in the testimony, nor any reason to believe that the bank knew anything
of this connection between the sums received from several of
the banks with which Israel was connected at different times
and the debt of Schuler. This is expressly denied, and we
can see no reason why the bank should be held in any way to
regard the deposit made by 0.W. Israel & Co. as, in law or
in equity, funds in which Schuler had an interest. It must,
therefore, be left entirely out of the argument in the contest
between the bank and Schuler.
Apart from this matter, it is not easy to see any valid reason why the assignment of an insolvent debtor, for the equal

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

beneft of all his creditors, and all his property, does not confer
on those creditors an equity equal to that of the holder of an
unpaid check upon his banker. The holder of this check comes
into the distribution of the funds in the hands of the assignee
for his share of those funds with other. creditors. The mere
fact that he had received a check, a few days before the making of the assignment, on the bank, which had not been presented until after the general assignment was made and notified
to the bank, does not seem, in and of itself, to give any such
superiority of right. The assignment was complete and perfect,
and vested in the assignee the right to all the property of the
assignor immediately upon its execution and delivery, with
due formalities, to the assignee, and the check of this assignee,
like the check of Israel & Co., could have -been paid by the
bank with safety, if first presented. The check given by the
same assignor a few days before was only an acknowledgment
of a debt by that assignor, and blcame no valid claim upon
the funds against which it was drawn until the holder of those
funds was notified of its existence. 'This, we think, is the fair
result of the authorities on that subject.
In the case of 8.pain v. Hamilton's Adninistrator,'lWall.
604, 624, this court says:
"Any order, writing, or act which makes an appropriation
of a fund, amounts to an equitable assignment of the fund.
The reason is, that the fund being a matter not assignable at
law, nor capable of manual possession, an -appropriation of it
is all that the nature of the case admits of, and therefore it is
held good in a court of equity. As the assignee is generally
entitled to all th. remedies of the assignor, ,,o he is subject to
all the equiti~es'betveen the assign6r and I s debtor. But in
order to perfect' his title against the debtor it is indispensable
that the assignee should immediately give notice of the assignmept to the debtor, for otherwise a priority of right may be
obtained by a subsequent assignee, or the debt may be discharged by a payment to the assignee before such notice."
The sar, principle is also laid down in Christmasv. Russell,
f4 Wall. 69; StbryIs -Eq. Juris. §§ 1041, 1057, 1035a. See
especially the authorities cited in note 1 to this latter section.

CARTER COUNTY v. SINTON.
Syllabus.

See also Weard v. iforrison, 25 Vt. 593, 599, and Loomig v.
Loomis, 26 Vt. 198.
For these reasons we are of opinion that at the time of the
presentation of the check to the bank, the bank held no funds
subject to its payment, whether we consider the -delivery of it
by 0. W. Israel & Co. to Schuler as intended to create an
equitable assignment or not. An earnest effort ismade in the
argument of counsel in this court to impeach the general
assignment as being void under the laws of Texas, where it
was made, and also in the state of IMissouri, whero this fund
was. As there is nothing in the statute of Xissouri which
would make this assignment absolutely void, and there is
nothing brought to our attention to prove that it was void by
the laws of Texas, and as the assignment, though mentioned
in the original bill of complainant, is not assailed, nor any
ground set forth to show its invalidity, we do not think there
is any reason why it should not be held in this proceeding to
be a valid assignment. As this assignmpnt had the effect
when the bank was notified of it to transfer to the assignee all
right to any funds in its hands which Israel could assert, we
need not consider the other questions connected with the case.
The result of these views is, that
The decree against the bank must be reversed and the case
,remanded,with insteuctions to dLsmiss the bill.

CARTER COUNTY v. SINTON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

E

DISTRICT OF XENTUCKY.
Submitted January 7,1887.-

Decided March 7, 1887.

When the title of a statute of a state clearly and distinctly expresses the
whole object of the legislature in the enactment, and there is nothing in
the body of the act which is not germane to what is there expressed, the
act sufficiently complies with a requirement in the constitution of the
State that no law "shall relate to more than one subject, axd that
shall be expressed in the title;" although some provisions in the act

