OCTOBER' TERM,

1886.

Syllabus.

rate and distinct, and, according to all the decisions, he is in
such case entitled to recover the two compensations. In the
forimer casa, he performs the added duties unrder his appoint
,ment to a single place, and the statute has provided that he
shall receive no additional compensation for that class of duties
unless it is so provided by special legislation. The case of
United States v. Brindle, 110 U. S. 688, in which an Indian
agent received large additional compensation for services connected With the sale of lands belonging to the Indians of his
agency, which was affirmed in this court, was upon the ground
that these additional services were performed for the benefit of
the Indians, and the statute implied the payment of a reasonable compansation for such services. See also Converse v.
,$t&"s,
2f How. 463.
T]ie United
These views require the affirmance of the judgment of the
Court of Claims; and it is so ordered.
Affirmed.

KIRBY v. LAKE SHORE & MIICHIGAN SOUTHERN
RAILROAD.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UKITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued 'November 15, 16, 18S.-Decided January 10, 1897.
When relief is asked in equity in courts of the United States on the ground
of fraud, time will not run in favor of defendant until discovery of the
fraud, or until, with reasonable diligence, it might have been discovered;
and this rule is not affected in the State of New York by the provisions
of § 382 of the Code of that sthte as amended in 1877 in so far as they
may be construed to modify it.
A statute of a state which provides that "the iime which shall have elapsed
between the death of any person and the granting of letters testamentary
or of administration on his estate, not exceeding six months, and the
period of six months after the granting of such letters shall not be
deemed any part of the time limited by any law for the commencement
of actions by executors or administrators," does not give the party claiming the benefit of its proiisions both periods of six months therein mentioned, but only such time, not exceeding six months, as elapsed after

KIRBY v. LAKE SHORE, &c., RAILROAD.
Statement of Facts.
the death of the testator or intestate, before the granting of letters, and
the additional time of six months after the granting of letters.
In a state where the statutes authorize ancillary letters to be issued on a
will proved in another state, on depositing in the office of the probating
court a certified copy of the will and its probate, the executor cannot
prevent the statute of limitations of the State from running against him
in a court of the United States, sitting in the State, by an unreasonable
delay in taking out ancillary letters. -

Tmis case was heard in the court below upon demurrers to
an amended bill and to an amended bill in the natuw. of a supplemental bill. The demurrers were sustained and the bill
dismissed upon the ground that the. suit was barred by the
statute of limitations of the State of New York.
The material facts admitted by the demurrer were as follows:
The appellant, the plaintiff below, was the executor of John
T. Alexander, who died, at his domicil in the State of Illinois,
on the 21st of August, 1876. He received his letters testamentary from the proper court in that state on the 6th of September of the same year. On the 7th of April, 1880; ancillary
letters were issued to him by the Surrogate of the county of
New York, in the State of New York. 2 Rev. Stat. N. Y.
(2 ed.), marginal page 67, § 68. (Albany, 1836.)
This suit was brought April 9, 1880. Its object was to obtain a decree setting aside sundry'settlements of accounts had
by the firm of J. T. & G. D. Alexander & Co. (composed of John
T. Alexander, G. D. Alexander, and William Fitch, and to be
hereafter called Alexander & Co.) with certain railroad corporations, defendants below, in reference to various business
transactions between the parties. Those transactions arose
under an agreemen, partly written and partly verbal, entered
into May 28, 1870, between those corporations and Alexander
& Co., relating to the shipment of horned cattle and hogs- by
the latter over the roads of the former between designated
points, and at specified rates of freight. The agTeement took
effect June 10, 1870, and was to continue in force one year,
during which period Alexander & Co. were-not .toship horned
cattle or hogs over any rival road between the points named.
In the event there was a reduction of iates, Alexander & Co.
were to have the benefit of the lowest rates between those

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

points charged by either of the defendant corporations or by
any other rival corporation. The agreement contemplated
settlements between the parties from tinte. to time and the
payment by .Alexander & Co., on each shipment, of the rates
specified in the agreement. But thee aw-ounts so paid, when
in excess of the lowest rates charged by.the defendant corpo-rations, or either .of them, or by other rival corporations, were
to be-held by the defendants in trust for the shippers and repaid to the latter, by way of "drawbacks," on each occasion
when the accounts between the parties were stated and settled.
These settlements were had monthly-or oftener. At each
of them Vanderbilt, the testator of the individual defendants,
in behalf of the railroad corporations, claimed to have peculiar
facilities for obtaining information in reference to rates, and
promised to keep Alexander & Co. (who had no means of obtaining such information) fully advised in the premises. In
reply to specific inquiries addressed to him on the occasion of
each'of such settlements, he represented that the rates charged
by his companies to that firm were not higher than those
charged by rival corporations. Relying upon such representations, Alexander & Co. consummated the various settlements
upon the basis suggested by Vaiderbilt. They, however, subsequently ascertained that the rates charged by the defendant
corporations, as well as by rival corporations, to shippers between the points named, and during the same period, were
much lower than those charged Alexander & Co., and that
the representations to the contrary by the defendant corporations were knowingly false, and made with the intent to cheat
and defraud said firm. The bill alleges that the truth, as to
what were the current rates for the period covered by the settlements, was fraudulently concealed by the defendant corporations from Alexander & Co., and that said frauds were not,
and could nct have been, discovered by the latter until on or
about April 16, 1873.
The settlements between the parties, it may be stated, covered more than two hundred shipments of cattle and hogs, the
freights upon which aggregated nearly $350,000, or about
$9000 per week, from June 10, 1870, to March 14, 1871, when

KIRBY v. LAKE SHORE, &c., RAILR AD.
Statement of Facts.

the contract was cancelled by mutual consent. Immediately
thereafter the partnership of Alexander & Co. was dissolved
and its affairs adjusted.
G. D. Alexander was adjudged to be a lunatic by the
proper court in Illinois on the 3d day of April, 1872, and.is
still of unsound mind. A conservator of his estate was shortly
thereafter selected, but in reference to that appointment the
bill charged that it was a nullity, and that no valid appointment was made until uly 3, 1880. As to Fitch, the remaining' partner, he, on April 12, 1879, brought an action in one of
the courts of New York for the purpose of enforcing the liability to him, individually, of the defendant corporations and
Vanderbilt, on account of the nmatters in this suit set forth,
but, by proceedings had after the commencement of this litigation, his interest in the claim preferred in his own suit was
sold, one Taylor becoming the purbhaser thereof, and subse:
quently Fitch's suit was dismissed, by the procurement of the
defendants, for want of -prosecution. The plaintiff stated that,
at the time of Taylor's purchase, Fitch, by his laches, had lost
any individual rights he might theretofore have had in said
claim; and that Taylor had not succeeded to any substantial
interest capable of being enforced herein. -He also averred
that both Fitch and the present conservator of the estate of
G. D. Alexander declined, upon request, to unite as coplaintiffs in this suit.
It was further alleged by the plaintiff, that the receipted
freight bills having been surrendered to the defendant corporations at the time of the settlements ith them, he had no
means of ascertaining the amount justly due to said fimn, by
way of drawbacks, except from the freight bills, checks, and
vouchers.in the possession or under the control of said corporations.
The prayer of the bill was, that the before-mentioned settlements be opened and set aside, that a reaccounting be had in
respect of all of said transabtions, and that, upon final hearing, the plaintiff have a decree for the difference between the
amount of "drawbacks" repaid to Alexander & Co. at the
time of the settlements and the amounts which that firm were

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

entitled to receive upon each settlement, with interest thereon
from the time they were respectively payable.
.M>. John C. Fay and A&r. George Norris for appellant.
-r. Joseph . )l&cDonald was with them on the brief.
2fr. John E.Burrill for appellees.
after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
AIR.

JusTioE

HARLAN,

The case made by the plaintiff is clearly one of which a
court of equity may take cognizance. The complicated
nature of the accounts between the parties constitutes itself
a sufficient ground for going into equity. It would have
been difficult, if not impossible, for a jury to unravel the
numerous transactions involved in the settlements between
the parties, and reach a, satisfactory conclusion as to the
amount of drawbacks to which Alexander & Co. were
entitled on each settlement. 1 Story Eq. Juris. § 451.
Justice could not be done 'except by employing the methods of investigation peculiar t6 courts of equity. When to
these considerations is added the charge against the defendants of actual concealed fraud, the right of the plaintiff to
invoke the jurisdiction of equity cannot well be doubted.
Did the Circuit Court err in adjudging that the suit was
barred by the statute of limitations?
By the Code of Civil Procedure of New York in force prior
to September 1, 1871, the period o'f six years was prescribed
as the limitation for "1. An action upon a contract, obligation, or liability,
express or implied," except a judgment or sealed instrument.
"6. An action of relief, on the ground of fraud, in cases
which heretofore were solely cognizable by the court of
chancery; the cause of action in such case not to be deemed
to have accrued until the discovery by the aggrieved party of

KIRBY v. LAKE SHORE, &c.,

RAILROAD.

Opinion of the Court.

-the facts constituting the fraud."

Voorhees' Code, § 91 ; 4th

ed. 86; 5th ed. 69-70.
The Code which went into operation September 1, 1877,
prescribed the like limitation for actions upon contracts, obligations, or liabilities, exTress or implied, other than judgments
or sealed instruments; but, in place of subdivision 6 of § 91
of the old Code, was substituted the following:
"5. An action to procure a judgment, other than for a sum
of money, on the ground of fraud, in a case which, on the
thirty-first day of December, 1846, was cognizablo by the
court of chancery. The cause of action in such it case is not
deemed to have accrued until the discovery, by the plaintiff or
the person under whom he claims, of the facts constituting the
fraud." N. Y. Code, as amended in 1877, § 382.
The Circuit Court, deeming the jurisdiction in equity and at
law to be concurrent in cases like this, was of opinion that the
question of limitation is controlled by the local statute, and,
upon the authority of C4a2'r v. Tiompson,. 87 N. Y. 160,
adjudged that this action was not, within the meaning of
§ 382 of the Code, one "to procbre a judgment, other than
for a sum of money, on the ground of fraud ;" and that, consequently, the causa of action accrued upon the commission of
the alleged frauds (which was in 1871), and not at the date of
their discovery, on the 16th 6f April, 1873. As this view is
controverted by the appellant, and is the main ground upon
which appellees rely for an affirmance of the judgment below,
it must be exapained.
It is not clear that the decision in Carrv. Tkcmpson goes
as far as the cirwit judge supposed: That was an action
against an agent to'recover moneys obtained from his principals and converted to his own use, by means of false and fictitious accounts, rendered from time to time, and -Which he represented to be correct and just. Fraud although charged, was
not regarded by the state court as the basis of the action.
It was not deemed a suit to recdver damages for the fraud
practised, but one merely to recover damages for the violation
of the agent's contract or obligation to account justly and honestly to his principals. The sole question, the state court said,

OCTOBER TERM,- 1886.
Ophiion of the Court.

presented by the complaint and answer, was whether the agent
properly performed his duty. It also was careful to say:
"It is to be observed that the complaint is not framed for
the purpose of opening an account stated; it does not allege
the existence of such an account as an obstacle to a recovery,
which requires the aid of equity. to remove; nor, indeed, does
the answer set uP any such defence." These, remarks, in connection with the further declaration, that the words "an action
to procure a judgment, other than for a sum of money, on the
ground of fraud," sufficiently describe "a case in which judgment for an accounting is sought in addition to, and as a
means of reaching, a judgment for money," lead us to doubt
whether that court would hold, in a case like the present, that
the time for commencing the action begins to run from the
commission, not from the discovery, of the fraud.
*Be. that as it may, it is an established rule of equity, as
administered in the courts of the United States, that, where
relief is asked on the ground of actual fraud, especially if such
fraud has been concealed, time will not run in favor of the
defendant until the discovery of the fraud, or until, with
reasonable diligence, it might have been discovered. iYeader
v. lYorton, 11 Wall. 442, 458; Prevost v. Gratz, 6 Wheat. 481;
.Mickoud -v. Girod, 4 How. 503, 561; VFeazie v. Filliams,
How. 134, 14:9, 158; Browmb v. Bueaa Vita, 95 U. S. 157;
JRosentkal v. Walker, 111 U. S. 185, 190; 2 Story Eq. §
1521a; Angell on Limitations. In Bailey v. Glover, 21 Wall.
342, 3417, it was said, that, "in suits in equity, where relief is
sought on the ground of fraud, the authorities are without
conflict in support of the doctrine that, where the ignoranca
of the fraud has been produced by affirmative acts of the
guilny party in coifcealing the facts from the other, the statute
will not bar relief, provided suit is brought within proper time
after the discovery of the fraud. We also think that in suits
in equity the decided weight of authority is in favor of the
proposition that, where the party injured by the-fraud remains
in ignorance of it without any fault or wa4t of diligence or
care on his part, the bar of the -tatute does not begin to run
until the fraud is discovered, though 'there be no special cir-

KIRBY v. LAKE SHOR,

&c., RAILROAD.

Opinion of the Court.

cumstances or efforts on.the part of the party bommitting the
fraud to conceal it from the 'knowledge of the other party."
In the same case it was said: "To hold that by concealing. a
fraud, or by committing a fraud in a manner that it concealed
itself, uitil such time.as the party committing the fraud could.
plead the statute of limitations to protect it, is to make the
law, which was designed to prevent fraud, the means by which
it is made successful and secure." See, also, Traer v. Clews,
115 U. S. 528, 538. These observations were made with reference to an act of Congress prescribing a fixed time within
which a suit between an assignee in bankruptcy and persons
asserting adverse rights in property conveyed to such assignee
should be brought. (They are peculiarly applicable to a local
statute, which, if followed, would impair the power of the
courts of the United States to enforce the settled principles
of equity in suits of which they have, by the Constitution and
the. laws of the United States, full jurisdiction. While the
courts of -the Union are required by the statutes creating them
tb accept, as rules of decision, in trials at common law, the
laws of the several states, except where the Constitution, laws,
treaties, and statutes of the United States otherwise provide,
their jurisdiction in equity cannot be impaired by the local
statutes of the different gtates. in which they sit. In' Uiled
States v. Howlazd, 4 Wheat. 108, -115, Chief Justice Marshall,
speaking for the court, said, that, as the courts of the Union
have a chancery jurisdiction in every state, and the judiciai'y
act confers&.the same chancery powers on all, and gives the
same rule of decision, its jurisdiction must be the same in all
the states. The same view was expressed by Mr. Justice
Curtis in his work -on the jurisdiction of the courts in the
United States (p. 13), when he observed that "the equity
practice of the courts of the United States is the same everywhere in the United States, and they administer the same
system of equity rules and equity jurisdiction throughout the
whole of the United States without regard to state laws."
So, in Payne v.- Z
,,'*Wall. 425, 430, it war said: "We'
have repeatedly held ('that the jurisdiction of, the courts of
the United States over controversies between citizens of differ-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

ent states cannot be impaired by the laws of the states, which
prescribe the modes of redress in their courts, or which regulate the distribution of their judicial power.' If legal remedies are sometimes modified to suit the changes in the laws of
the states, and the practice of their courts, it is not so with
equitable. The equity jurisdiction of the courts of the Unit6d
States is the same that the High Court of Chancery in England possesses, is subject to neither limitation or restraint bystate legislation, and is uniform throughout the different
states of the Union." See, also, Robinson v. Campbell, 3
Wheat. 212, 221, 222; Royle v. Zackarie,6 Pet. 632, 648, 658;
ivingston v. Story, 9 Pet. 632, .656; Stearns v. Page, 7 How.
819; Russell v. Southard,12 How. 139, 147; 2Peves v. Scott, 13
How. 267, 272; Barber v. Barber, 21. How. 582, 592; Green
v. Creighton, 23 How. 90, 105. In view of these authorities,
it is clear that the statute of New York upon the subject of
limitation does" not affect the power and duty of the court
below - following the settled rules of equity--to adjudge

that time did not run in favor of defendants, charged with
'actual concealed fraud, iantil, after such fraud was or should,
with due diligence, have been discovered. Upon any other
theory the equity jurisdiction of the .courts of the United
States could not be exercised accotding to rules and principles applicable, alike in every state. It is undoubtedly true,
as announced in adjudged cases, that courts of equity feel
themselves bound, in cases of concurrent jurisdiction, by the
statutes of )imitation that govern courts of law in similar circumstances, and that sometimes they act upon the analogy of
the like limitation at law. But these general rules must be
taken subject to the qualification that the equity jurisdiction
of the courts of the United States cannot be impaired by the
laws of the respective states in which they sit. It is an inflexible rule in those courts; when applying the general limitation
prescribed in cases like this, to regard the cause of action as
having accrued at the time the fraud was or should have been
discovered, and thus withhold from the defefndant the benefit,
in the computation of time, of the period during which he
concealed the fraud.

KIRBY v. LAKE SHORE,

&c.,

RAILROAD.

Opinion of the Court.

It results that even if this be not an action "to procure a
judgment, other than for a sum of money, on the ground of
fraud," within the meaning of the New York Code of Proce(lure, the limitation of six years, being applied here, does not,
s adjudged below, commence from the commission of the
alleged frauds.
Can the suit be maintained if the cause- of action is to be
deened to have accrued from the discovery of the fraud ? In
DNrke v. Smith, 16 Wall. 390, 401, where the local statute
prescribed six years for the commencement of actions for fraud,
the court, after observing that equity acts or refuses to act in
analogy to the statute, said: "We think a court of equity willnot be moved to set aside a fraudulent transaction at the suit
of one who has been quiescent during a period longer than
that fixed by the statute of limitations, after he had knowledge of the fraud or after he was put upon.inquiry with the
means of knowledge accessible to him." Without inquiring
whether the plaintiff was not gujlty of such gross laches, in
applying for relief, as deprived him of all right to the aid of
equity, and giving him -.
the benefit of the limitation of six
years, to be computed from the.discovery of -the fraud, there
seems to be even then no escape from the conclusion that the
suit was not brought in time. Seven years, lacking only seven
days, elapsed after the discovery of the frauds by the plaintiff's
testitor before suit was brought..
The plaintiff, however, contends that he had seven years
within which to sue. This position is supposed to be justified
by the New York statute, which declares that "the time
which shall have elapsed between the death of any person
and the granting of letters testaaentary or of administration
on his estate, not exceeding six months, and the period of six
months after the granting of such letters, shall not be deemed
any part of the time limited by any law for the comnnencement of actions by executors or administrators." Rev. Stat.
N. Y. pt. iii, c. 8, tit. 3, art. 1, § 9, 1st ed. vol. 2, p. 448.
[Repealed. See Sess. Laws, 1877, vol. 1, p. 468, c. 417.]
If this statute has any application to a case where the cause
of action accrued in the lifetime of the testator or intestate, it

140

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opiniou of the Court.

cannot avail the plaintiff. It does not give the party claiming
the. benefit of its provisions both of the two periods of six
months therein mentioned, but only such time, not exceeding
six months, as elapsed after the death of the testator or intestate before the granting of letters, and the additional time of
six months after the graning of letters. Here only sixteen
days intervened -between the death and the granting of letterm
testamentary. In computing the time for suing there must
be .excluded only these sixteen days and the six mopths immediately succeeding that period. In other words - applying
that statute to the case in hand - the plaintiff had only
six years six months and sixteen.days, after the discovery
on April 16, 1873, of,the alleged frauds, within which to sue;
whereas, this action was not brought until seven years, lacking
only seven days, after the alleged frauds were discovered.
We do not conceive that the time of granting the'ancillary
letters testamentary -in New York can affect the question.
The will having been proved in Illinois, the place of domidil,
there was nothing to prevent the immediate issue of letters
upon it in New York. By the laws of that state, no further
probate was necessary; a certified copy deposited in the office
of the surrogate was all that was required. As this was in
the executor's power to have done at any time, he can hardly
claim that his own,voluntary delay should extend the period
which equity considers reasonable for the institution of a suit.
2 N. Y. Rev. Stat. (2d ed.), marg. paging 67, § 82; Civil Code,

§ 269A.
The decree i8 ffirmed.

