KANSAS ENDOWIENT ASSO. v. KANSAS.

103

. Opinion of the Court.

KANSAS ENDOWMENT ASSOCIATION v. KANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT' OF XANSAS.
Submitted Januar&6, 1857.- Decided January 24,1887.

An averment in a motion for a new trial'(contained in a record, brought up
in error from a state court) that a statute of the state upon which th:
suit was based is "unconstitutional and void," may apply to the, cou
stitution of the stdte, and, taken by itself, raises no question for decision
below, which this court can review in error.

T E case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Xfr. George TF. .De CamT and Xr. J Jay Buck for plaintiff
in error.
.Mr.S. B. Bradford Attorney General of Kansas, Z1f. -Edwim
A. Austin, and _Yr. 'iarlsB. Smith, for defendant in error.
YM.

CHIEF JUSTIcE WAr E

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This was a suit begun by the state of Kansas in the District
Court of Lyon County against the Endowment and Benevolent
Association of Kansas, for a forfeiture of its charter because it
had neglected to comply with the requirements of chapter 131
of the laws of Kansas of the year 1885, approved March 7,
1885, "providing for the organization and control of mutual
life insurance companies in this state."
The case was submitted without pleadings on an agreed statement of facts,
from which it appears that the corporation was organized
under the general laws of Kansas, Janiary 1, 1885, with t.e
following objects:
"1st. To guard its members, to a gTeat extent, against the
ills of pecuniary want during life, and especially during the
period of inflyn old age, and at their death to make a provision for their families and friends, which latter is, supposed to
be the only physical anxiety of dying'man.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opin:ou of the Cour&

"2d. To create a fund to be paid to the members of the
society, in accordance with rules and regulations thereof,
whereby the members may the better be enabled to perpetuate
and sustain their membership, which in so doing will secure to
them and their dependents the continued support and protection of the association.
."3d. To encourage and promote benevolence, industry, and
charity among its members,"The district court gave judgment against the corporation,
but on what ground does not appear, except as it may be
inferred from the following reasons assigned in support of a
motion for a new trial:
"1. Thatsaid chap. 131 is unconstitutional and void.
"2. For eiror of law occurring at the trial and excepted to
by the defendant.
"3: That the facts of this case do not warrant either the
conclusion of law made by the court or the judgment herein
rendered."
W hen the case went to the Supreme Court of the state on a
petition in error, the following was the assignment of errors:

"1. The said court erred in rendering judgment for said
plaintiff below.
"12. The conclusions of law and the judgment are not authorized or warranted by the facts of the case.
." 3. Said court erred in overruling the motion of the defendant below for a new trial."
From this statement it is clear that we have no jurisdiction,
as no Federal question appears affivmnatively on the face of the
record. It is true that in the motion for a new trial the question of the 6onstitutionaiity of chapter 131"of the acts of 1885
was presented; but that is not enough, since it is nowhere shown
that any provision of the Constitution of the United States
was relied onl. The suggestion in the motion applies as well
to the -constitution of the state as to that of the United States,
and it has long been settled that we have no jurisdiction unless
it distinctly appears that a question under the Constitution or
a law of the United States not only might have been but actually was raised and decided. C'owell v. Randell, 10 Pet. 368,

GIBBS v. CRANDAlL.
Statement of Facts.

398; .Brownv. Colorado, 106 U. S. 95, 97; Chouteauv. Gibson,
111 U. S. 200; Detroit .ailway Company v. Gutlard, 114
U. S. 133. -Here there is nothing of the kind, and in the assignment of errors on the petition in error to the Supreme Court
of the state no reference was made to any constitutional question whatever, except inferentially under that which relates to
overruling the motion for a new trial. Certainly it does not
appear unmistakably on the face of the record that the
S.upreme Court of. the state either knew or ought to have
known that the validity of the statute in question was challenged on account of its repagnancy to the Constitution or
laws of the United States. Brown v. Colorado, supra, p. 97.
Indeed, we know of no provision of the Constitution which
renders such a statute invalid as a whole, and there is nowhere
in the record any claim that in"the charter of the corporation
there was a contract by the state the obligation of which had.
been impaired by the legislation. If there had been, the validity of the statute could not have been challenged except in its
application to tlis charter, .and that was not the objection
made either in the motion for a new trial or anywhere ele
that we can discover.
The writ of er-raris dismissedfor want of jursdition.

GIBBS v.. CRANDALL.
APPEAL FROM THE ciROciT CORT OF TiE UXITED STATES FO. THE
WESTERN DISTRI cT OF LOUISIANA.
Submitted January 7, 1937. -Decided

January 24, 1887.

The parties in this case on both hides being all citizens of Louisiana, it is held
that the facts as stated in the opition of the court show no Teal and substantial dispute or controversy arising under the Constitution or laws ot
the United States, so as to authorize the removal of the case from the
state court of Louisiana, to the Circuit Court of the United States.

THIS was an appeal from a judgment of the Circuit Court
of the United States-for the Western District of Louisiana re-

-

