THE L. P. DAYTON.
Statement of Facts.

THE L. P. DAYTON.
APPEAL FROMt THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED. STATES FOR
THE SOUTHENIt
DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued January 21, 24, 187.-Decided February 7, 1887.
If a vessel in tow by one steam-tug collides on navigable waters with avesscl in tow by another steam-tug and is injured, and the two tugs are libelled
in one proceeding in admiralty to recover damages for the injuries sustained, the burden of proof is on the libellant to establish negligence
against each tug separately; and admissions in the answer on the part
of' one tug cannot be used against the other tug to relieve the injured
vessel of this burden.
The rule which presumes fault in case of a collision against a vessel in motion
in favor of one at anchor does not apply to the case of a vessel moved
by a steam-tug colliding with another vessel moved by another steam
tug.
If' a vessel towed by a steam-tug, colliding with a vessel towed by another
steam-tug, libels the other steam-tug, its rights in the suit and its standing
in court will be the same which its own steam-tug would have had, in
case the collision had been directly with her; but if it libels its own steamtug, the latter is responsible, under its contract of towage, only for the
results happening from the want of ordinary care on its part.
The relative position of the steam-tug of the other tow to the appellant
and its tug, before and up to the instant before the accident, and its action
during that time, were not such as to constitute a violation of Rev, Stat.
ยง 4233, rule 19, that " if two vessels under steam are crossing so as to
involve risk of collision, the vessel which has the other on her own starboard side shall keep out of the way of the other."

THE appellant, Thomas McNally, filed his libel in a cause of'
collision, civil and maritime, against th6 steam-tug L. P.
Dayton, the steam-fug James Bowen, and the float or scow
called Number Four, in the District Cotirt of the United
Stptes for the Southern District of New York. The second.
article of the libel set out the cause of action as follows:
"2d. Heretofore, to wit, on the fourteenth day of February,
1879, the boat or barge Centennial, of the burden of about
300 tons, of which boat your libeilant was master, was taken
ii. tow by the steam-tug L. P. Dayton at the pier foot of
Fifty-ninth Street, New York harbor, to be towed by the said
VOL. cxx-22

OCTOBER TERI,- 1886.
Statement of Facts.

tug to the'Erie basin, near Atlantic docks, New York harbor.
She was taken at or about five and one-half o'clock in the
afternoon of that day. She was loaded with a valuable cargo,
to wit, six thousand four hundred and fifty bushels, or thereabouts, of red wheat. She was then stanch and seaworthy.
When the L. P. Dayton left Fifty-ninth Street pier she had
in tow four boats or barges, of which the boat Centennial
was one; these were placed two on the port side of the said
tug and two on her starboard side. The Centennial was
the inside starboard boat -that is, the one lashed to the starboatd side of the tug Dayton. The Centennial was a boat
one hundred and three feet in length, and when fastened to
the tug, as aforesaid, her bow projected some twenty feet beyond the bow of the said steam-tug. The eiening was quite
clear and starlit. The tug and tow being made up as'aforesaid
proceeded down- the river, the tide being ebb, until about opposite Eagle pier, Hoboken, when the tug put into shore and
there left one of the boats that had been fastened to her port
side.
"After the port boat had been left at the Eagle pier as
aforesaid, the tug, with the remaining three boats, resumed
her course, proceeding down the river. When about opposite
Pier 1, ihorth River, and when about three hundred yards
from the New York shore, the said boat Centennial was run
into by the float or scow called Number Four, which was
then in tow of the steam-tug James Bowen, and received
such injuries that she very soon thereafter sunk with her cargo.
At the time of the collision darkness had set in, and your
libellant is unable to speak of his own knowledge with entire
accuracy of the movements of the vessels aforesaid. But he
is informed and believes the truth to be as follows, that is
to say:
"Before the collision aforesaid the steam-tug James Bowen,
having the float or scow Number Four lashed to her port
side, was proceeding from some point on the East River to the
Long Dock, Jersey City. She had rounded the Battery, and
at the time of the collision was on a course opposite or nearly
opposite the course then Leing taken by the tug L. P. Dayton

I THE L. P. DAYTON.
Statement of Facts.

and her tow. Through the carelessness of both of the persons
in charge of the L. P. Dayton and of the James Bowen
and the scow, the said tows were not kept clear of each other,
though therewas ample space of water in which to have done
so, but were so negligently handled that the float or scow
aforesaid bore right down on and struck full on her stem the
boat Centennial, staving in her whole bow and causing her
to sink in about ten minutes.
"Your libellant and his son were on board the Centennial
at the time of the collisi6n, but it was not possible for them
to do anything to prevent the same. The Centennial was
entirely under the control and subject to the direction of the
tug-boat L. P. Dayton, having neither propelling nor steering power of her own.
"Your libellant alleges that both the steam-tugs aforesaid
were in fault in the following respects:
"First. Neither tug-boat observed the signals of the other,
the observation of which might have and would have prevented danger.
."Second. N~either tug-boat made use of the proper
signals
for avoiding a collision in time to avoid the same.
"Third. The tug-boat Bowen did not reverse her movement, or did not do so in time to prevent a collision.
"Fourth.. Neither tug-boat was provided with a suitable
and competent watch at and before the time of the collision.
"Fifth. The tug-boat James Bowen improperly changed
her course before the collision, having put her wheel to 'port
and made an effort, apparently, to pass under the bows of the
Dayton and her tow.
"But your libellant alleges, in general, negligence against
both the said tugs, and requires them to make definite answer
of the facts pertinent to the collision, which will clearly show
either that both were equally to blame, or to blame in unequal'
degree, though neither entirely free from blame; but, for
the reasons above mentioned, your libellant's boat, the Centennial, was in nowis6 to blame or responsible for the collision
aforesaid."
And also alleged negligence against the steam-tugs in addition, as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

"That on the night and at the time of the collision the tide
was a strong ebb, that the tug Bowen and her tow were
proceeding against the tide, and that it was negligence in her
not to have kept more to the westward than she did, and
thereby have avoided the tug Dayton and her tow, as might
easily trave been done had the proper care b~en used in observing the Dayton's lights and signals.
"And, further, that the said tug Bowen and her tow kept
too near the New York shore in rounding the Battery and
making up the North River.
"That7 the tug Bowen was also negligent in respect of not
having a proper light set on her port side, or in permitting the.
same to be covered and obscured by certain cars or carriages
at that time on the deck of the float, which was on her port
side.
"That the tug Bowen was also negligent in not answering the signals of the tug Dayton when they were approaching each other.
"That the tug Dayton was at fault in proceeding at tQo
great a speed, the tide being a strong ebb and the wind
northwest.
not' hav"That the tug Dayton was likewise negligent 'in
ing a proper light set on the extreme starboard and forward
end of her tow.
"That the person in charge of the wheel of the Dayton
at the time of and before the collision was unfit for such
duty, being a man of near and imperfect sight, and genetally
incompetent. "That the tug Dayton, after twice blowing her whistle,
did not keep on her course, but ported her wheel and went to
starboard, showing her red light to the Bowen and the float
before reversing and attempting to go back.
"That neither the Dayton nor the Bowen had a watchman or lookout on her forward deck."
Hugh J. Jewett, Receiver of the Erie Railway Company,
claimant of the float or scow called Number Four filed his
answer 6n her behalf, in response to the tharges of the libel.
It was admitted, however, that no cause of action appeared

THE L. P. DAYTON.
Statelnent of Facts.

against the scow Number Four both in the courts below and
upon the argument in this court. It is, therefore, not necessary to consider the answer filed on its behalf.
Daniel Shea intervened as owner of the tug James Bowen,
and answered the charges of the libel as follows:
"Third. That this respondent has no knowledge of the matters contained in the second 1hrticle of said libel preceding the
allegation in the said article contained, to the effect that the
boat Centeniial was run into by the float or scow Number
Four, and he therefore neither admits nor denies the same,
but leaves the libellant to make such proof thereof as he may
be advised; that, so far as the allegations of the said article
relate to the collision between the said boat Centennial and
the float or scow called Number Four, which occurred on
the 14th day of February, 1879, and the causes thereof, this
respondent, upon information and belief, denies the said allegations of said article, and each and every one of them, except
so far as the same are hereinafter expressly admitted.
"And this respondent, upon information and belief, says that
the facts in respect to said collision and the causes thereof are
as hereinafter stated, and not otherwise, that is to say:
"On the evening of the 14th day of February, 1879, at
about half-past six o'clock, the said steam-tug* James Bowen,
at Williamsburg, in the waters of the East River, took in tow
the said float or scow Number Four, the said float or scow
being lashed to the port side of said tug James ]3owen,, and
the said tug James Bowen, with the said float or scow in
tow as aforesaid, proceeded down the East River, bound for
Long Dock, Jersey City; that the tide was ebb, the wind
moderate from northwest; that the said tug James Bowen
and the said float or scow were both stanch, properly manned
and equipped; that the said tug was provided with a bright
headlight dn the forward end of her house, and with red and
green lights on her port and starboard sides respectively, and
with two white lights on the flagstaff aft, and that the said
float was provided with a white headlight near the bow, all
of said lights being properly placed and burning brightly;
that the said tug James -Bowen was provided with a. compe-

OCTOBER 'kERAI, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

tent pilot and lookout, properly placed on the tug, and that a
lookout was also stationed forward on the roof of the float or
scow; that the said tug James Bowen, with the said float or
scow in tow as aforesaid, proceeded down the East River to
the Battery, and on rounding the Battery into the North
River encountered considerable ice, and in consequence was
running very slow; that after getting clear of the ice the said
tug, with the said scow in tow as aforesaid, was headed for
the, Jersey City abattoir. At this time there was outside of
the said float, and about one hundred feet distant from the
port side. thereof, the steam-tug W. H. Vanderbilt, with two
barges in tow astern on a hawser ;-ziat. said tug W. H. Vanderbilt, with her said tow, was proceeding in the same direction and at a little faster rate of speed than the James Bowen;
that after the said James Bowen, with the said scow or float
in tow, had gotten into clear water and was heading as last
aforesaid, a boat was discovered by her pilot coming down the
river with a tow, which subsequently turned out to be the
L. P. Dayton; that at the time the said approaching tug
and tow were discovered the green light of the tug L. P.
Dayton was visible, and she appeared to those in charge of
and navigating the tug James Bowen, including the lookout
on the float, to be going .to the eastward, between the said
James Bowen and the New York shore, whicf was then
about three hundred yards distant. At a proper distance the
pilot in charge of the James Bowen blew two blasts of his
,steam Whistle, to which the approaching tug, L. P. Dayton
responded with two blasts of her whistle, and the pilot in
chalge of the said James Bowen thereupon put his wheel to
starboard, heading as close to the westward as could safely be
done without danger of colliding with the tug W. H. Vanderbilt or the barges in tow thereof, which were, as before
stated, on the port side of the said float, beading in the same
direction; that notwithstanding the signal which had been
given by the James Bowen, and which had been answdred
by the L. P. Dayton, the pilot of the said L. P. Dayton,
instead of keepijig his course or putting his wheel to starboard
so as to pass the said James Bowen on her starboard side, so

THE L. P. DAYTON.
Statement of Facts.

changed his course as to shut out his green light and bring his
red light in view of those navigating the James Bowen;
that thereupon, it being evident that the said tug L. P. Dayton could not cross the bow of the James Bowen and of the
said float in tow thereof without imminent danger of collision,
the pilot in charge of the James Bowen immediately rang
his bells to slow, stop, and back; that said signals were
promptly answered by the engineer of the James Bowen,
and that at the time of the collision the heading of the James
Bowen and of the float in tow thereof was about stopped,
and that those in charge of the said L. P. Dayton and the
canal-boats or barges in tow thereof so navigated the same
that the bow of the canal-boat or barge on the starboard side
of the L. P. Dayton was brought into collision with the bow
of the said float or scow Number Four with such force as to
break the tow-line from the said scow or float Number Four
to the James Bowen, and to crush in the bow of the said
barge or canal-boat on the starboard side of the L. P. Dayton,
and that, as this respondent is informed and believes, the said
barge or canal-boat was the barge or canal-boat called the
Centennial in the libel in this cause mentioned, and that in
consequence of said collision the said barge or canal-boat
Centennial subsequently sank; that the place where the said
collision occurred was about opposite Pier 1, North River, and
from three hundred to three hundred and fifty yards from the
head of said pier.
"And this respondent, upon information and belief, says
that the said collision was in no way occasioned by any fault
on the part of the said float or scow Number Four, or of the
said tug James Bowen, or of those in charge thereof, but
was occasioned by and due wholly to the fault of those navigating and in charge of the said tug L. P. Dayton and the
said barges or canal-boats in tow thereof in the following respects :
"1. That the pilot in charge of the tug L. P. Dayton and
of the said canal-boats in tow thereof, including the said Centennial, was not a competent person for the purpose, being a
man of near and imperfect sight and generally incompetent.

OCTOBER TERMi,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

"2. That the L. P. Dayton, at the time of the said collision, while navigating the waters of the Hudson River and
engaged in towing canal-boats or barges, failed and omitted to
have white lights placed in the extreme outside of the tow on
either hand.
"3. That the pilot in charge of the said tug L. P. Dayton
and the canal-boats or barges in tow thereof, after -having
received and answered the signal of two blasts from the steam
whistle of the James Bowen, instead of keeping to the eastward and passing the said James Bowen on her starboard
side, improperly changed his course so as to cross the bows
of the said James Bowen, thereby bringing the bow of the
said canal-boat Centennial into collision with the said float
or scow Nmnber Four.
",4. That the said tug L. P. Dayton, when danger of collision became imminent, did not in season reverse her engine, so
as to prevent a collision.
"5. That the said tug-boat L. P. Dayton was not provided with a suitable or competent lookout properly stationed
at and before the time of the collision.
"6. That the said tug L. P. Dayton was also negligent in
proceeding at too great a rate of speed, the tide being ebb and
the wind from the northwest.
'"1. That the said tug L. P. Dayton, after twice blowing
her whistle as aforesaid, did not keep on her course, but ported
her wheel and went to starboard, showing her red light tothe, James Bowen and the said float before reversing and
attempting to go back.
"And this respondent, upon information and belief, says
that the said collision was in no way due to any fault on the
part of the said scow or float Number Four or of the said
tug ffaies Bowen, and upon information and belief he denies
each and every allegation in the said libel and in the supplement filed thereto contained charging or imputing any fault
or negligence whatever to the said float, or those in charge
thereof, or the said tug James Bowen, or those in charge
thereof, and each and every allegation in the said libel contained respecting the said collision, except as hereinbefore expressly admitted."

THE L. P. DAYTON.
Statement of Facts.

Arthur B. Twombly, as surviving partner of Whitney &
Twombly, intervened as owner of the steam-tug L. P. Dayton, and answered the libel as follows:
"Second. This respondent admits that on the 14th day of
February, 1879, the boat Centennial, of the burden of about
300 tons, and of which the libellant was master, was taken
in tow by the steam-tug L. P. Dayton, at the pier foot of
Fifty-ninth Street, New York, to be towed to the Erie basin,
at about half-past five o'clock P.m., and that she was loaded
with a cargo of wheat, of the quantity of which he is not
informed, nor is he informed whether the said boat was then
staunch and seaworthy, but leaves the libellant to make such
proof in reference thereto as he shall be advised.
"He admits that when the Dayton left Fifty-ninth Street
pier she had in tow four boats, two on each side, and that the
Centennial was the inside starboard boat; that she was one
hundred and three feet in length, and that hor bow projected
some twenty feet beyond the bow of th e steam-tug L. P.
Dayton; that the evening was clear and starlit and the tide
ebb, and that the tug landed one of the boats that had been
on her port side at the Eagle pier, Hoboken, and that she
thereafter pursued her course with the remaining three boats,
and that when about opposite or a short distance above Pier
No. 1, North River, and about three hundred yards from the
piers on the New York shore, the Centennial was run into
by the sdow Number Four, which was then in tow of the
steam-tug James Bowen, and received such injuries that she
sank with her cargo.
"And he admits that the said scow was lashed on the port
side of the James Bowen and that the said tug and scow
were proceeding from a point in the East River to the Long
Dock, Jersey City, and that at the time of the collision she
was on a course opposite or nearly opposite the ourse then
being taken by the L.P. Dayton and her tow.
"He denies that it was through any carelessness of the persons in charge of the L. P. Dayton that said tows were not
kept clear of each other.
"He admits that the Centennial was under the control

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Argument for Appellant.

and subject to the direction of the L. P. Dayton, having neither propelling nor steering power of her own.
" And as to the various allegations of fault on the part of
the L. P. Dayton, he denies the same and each one of them.
"And as to the allegations in said libel in respect to the
damages sustained by the libellant, he has no knowledge and
leaves the libellant to his proof thereof.
"nd he further avers that said tug L. P. Dayton was
wholly without fault which caused or contributed to said collision, and the same was wholly caused by fault of those on
board and in charge of the said tug James Bowen and said
scow Number Four, as alleged in said libel.
"And he alleges that the tug L. P. Daytoil was well and
properly manned and had the requisite lights set and. urning
brightly according to law, and that the tow was in all respects
properly made up; that the two tugs were approaching in
such a *ay that the proper course was for each to pass on the
starboard side of each other, and that the proper measures
were taken by said tug L. P. Dayton to pass in that manner
and the proper signals were blown, but that said tug James
Bowen failed to give heed to said signals and to take proper
measures to pass on the starboard hand-of said tug L. P. Dayton and the boats in her tow, but so negligently navigated as
to bring the said scow against the said boat Centennial and
also the boat on the port side of the L. P. Dayton."
The case was heard in the District Court on the pleadings
without testimony, and a decree was passed dismissing the
libel. 10 Ben. 430. On appeal to the Circuit Court, the case
was again submitted on the pleadings alone, when the same
decree was rendered. 18 Blatchford, 411. The present appeal was from that decree, and presents the single question of
law:whether upon the pleadings, without testimony, there is
error in that decree.
-Mr. EdwairdD. A3c Carthy, for appellant, cited : The Scioto,
2 Ware, 359; Tie iVat!7us, 1 War6, 529; Tie Alabamna and
The Gamecock, 2 U. S. 695; Ihe Jotnzson, 9 Wall. 146;
Sproul v. Hlermingway,- 14 Pick. 1; S. C. 25 Am. Dec. 350;

THE, L. P. DAY'TZON.

347

Argument for Appellee.

Sturgis v. Bowyer, 24 How. 110; The Atlas, 93 U. S. 302; Clark
v. Barnwell, 12 How. 272; Canfield v. Balt. &3Ohio 1?ailroad,
93 N. Y. 532; Stokes v. Salton8tall, 13 Pet. 181; Platt v. fibbard, 7 Cowen, 497; Clark v. Spence, 10 Watts, 335; Beardslee
v.Rihardson,11 Wend. 25; . C 25 Am. Dee. 596; Doorman
v. Jenkins, 2 Ad. & El. 256; Ware v. Gay, 11 Pick. 106; C]iyistie
v. Griggs,2 Canpb. 79; TransportationCo. v. Downer, 11 Wall.
129; The 3falpesia, L. R. 4 P. C. 212; The Benmore, L. R. 4
A. & E. 132; The Abraham,, 2 Aspin. 34 ; The Bolina, 3 N. of
Cas. 208; Scott'v.L-ondon, &c., .Dock Co., 3 H. & C. 596; The
Quickstep, 9 Wall. 665; Dutton v. The Epress, 3 Cliff. 462; Te
.51)res8 Olcott Adm. 258; S. C.1 Blatchford, 365; The Pihode
Island, Olcott Adm. 505; Treadwell v. Joseph, 1 Sumner, 390;
The John Adams, 1 Cliff. 404:; The Iochlibo, 3 W. Rob. 310;
Te Gautier,5 Ben. 469; The Sea Nymrph, Lush. 23; The Webb,
14 Wall. 406; The Brazos, 14 Blatchford, 446; Ins. Co. v. IVewton, 22 Wall. 32; Carver v. Tracy, 3 Johns. 427; Wailing v.
Toll, 9 Johns. 141; .Pennerv. Lewis, 10 'Johns. 38; Credit
v. Brown, 10 Johns. 365; Burmon v. Ioodbridge,2 Doug. 781;
)eex v. .lews, 4 C. & P. 221; Delaimater v. Pierce, 3 Denio,
315; Bearss v. Copley, 10 'N. Y.. 93; Barnes v. Allen, 30
Barb. 663; TrimlestaA v. Kernmie, 9 C1. & Fin. 749, .780-784;
Jforrison,v. Clark, 7 Cush. 213; Cent. Bridge Co. v. Butler,
2 Gray, 130; de .7emours v. Vance, 19 How. 162; Pope v.
Nickerson, 3 Story, 465; 277te Olement, 2 Curtis, 363.
IJLf. Joseph. _. _Mosher, for .the L. P. Dayton (Mr. James E.
Cfaienterwas with him on the brief), cited: Transportation,
.Line v. Hlope, 95 U. S.297; Te Xiargaret, 94 U. S.4941; The
Webb, 14 Wall. 406; The Brazos, 14 Dlatchford, 446; The
Brooklyn, 2 Ben. 5417; Thw Frank G. Fowler, 21 Blatchford,
410; The X Tandercook, 24 Fed. Rep. 472 ; The Quickstep, 9
Wall. 665; The Deer, 4 Ben. 352; The TIT. . Gladwish, 17
Blatclhford, 77; The B. B. Saunders, 23 Blatchford, 378 The
.enSwCamrpion, Abbott Adm. 202; Te Tillianm Young,
Olcott Adm. 38; The -AThtune, Olcott Adm. 483, 493; The
Beeze, 6"Ben. 14; The C'olmnbu, Abbott Adm. 884;, The
Su-mmit, 2 Curtis, 150; The Ern, 3 Cliff.. 456, 460; The

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.
T'iallisto, 2 IHughes, 128; The Ligo, 2 Iiagg. Adm. 356, 360;
The Bolina, 3 N. of Cas. 209; Tle Adolph, 4 Fed. Rep. 730;
The 2ra:pesia,L. R. 4 P. 0. 212; The Abraham, 2 Asp. N. S.
34; The Benmore, L. R. 4 A. & E. 132.

_I'. Milliar D. Shipman for the Bowen.
Xfr. Charles .
-Da Costa, for appellant,* cited the following cases not cited by -Mr. 2fcOarthy : Thte George, 9 Jur.
Pt. 1,670; Phe Vitoria, 3 W. Rob. 49; The Telegraph, 1
Spinks, 427; S. C. 8 Mkdoore P. C. 167; The Hibernia,4 Jur.
N. S. Pt. I, 1244; The Bothnia, 2 Law Time. N. S. 160; The
.Despatch, 3 Law Times N. S. 219; The Annapolis, 5 Law
Times N. S. 326; The Kepler, 2 P. D. 40; -The Glengarry,2
P. D. 235; The Andalusian,, 3 P. D. 182; The la Cahapool,
7 P. D. 217; The George Roper, 8 P. D.-119; The Louisiana,
3 Wal. 1641; The Granite State, 3 Wall. 310; The Syracuse,
12 Wall. 167; The Clarita and Clara, 23 Wall. 1; The
Belknap, 2 Lowell, 281; Sterling v. T.e Jennie .0ushnan, 3
Cliff. 636; The Jul*
ia -3f Hallock, Sprague, 539; The B-'idgeport, 7 Blatchford, 361; The -Delaware,20 Fed. Rep. 797;
The Brady, 24 Fed. Rep.-"O0; The Charlotte Raab, Brown
Admh. 453; Hall v. -Littl, 2 Flipp. 153; The Fremont,"3
Sawyer, 571; Rose v. Transportation 6., ยง0 Blatchford, 411;
2!ullen. v. St. Joh, 57 N. Y. 567; Seybolt v. -. Y., Lake Erie
& TVestern, Railroad, 95 N. Y. 562; Feital v. .3fiddlesex
Railroad,109 Mass. 398; Philadelphia& Reading Railroad
v. Anderson, 94 Penn. St. 351; Iron,Railroadv. 3owery, 36
Ohio St. 418; Pittsburg,Cincinnati & St. Louis Railroad v.
W illiam , 74 Ind. 462; Eagle Packet Co. v. De Fies,94 111.
598; Byre v- Boadle, 2 H. & C. 721; Bridges v. North
London, Railway, L. R. 6 Q. BP 377.

Mrz. JUSTICE MATTHEWS, after stating the case as reported
above, delivered the opinion of the court.
he ground on'whichxthe Oi-uit-Court proceeded is, that as
the libel alleges neligence, and fault in various particulars
as against the tug L. P. IDayton and the tug James Bowen,

THE L. P. DAYTON.
Opinion of the Court.

which are denred in the several answers of the respective claimants, in opposition to which the libellant has proven no negligence or fault on the part of either, the libel inust be dismissed,
as the burden of proof lies upon the libellant to establish a case
of negligence against one or the other, or both of the respondents, and that this burden of proof is not changed or shifted
by reason of any allegations of fault contained in the answer
of either respondent as against the other.. On the other hand,
it is contended on the part of the libellant, that while it is true
that each of the defendants denies the negligence charged
against it, yet both the answers show that the loss must have
been occasioned by the fault of one of the defendants, and- that
being so, the law casts upon each defendant the burden of
making good its allegations of fault against the other, in order
to exonerate itself.
The proposition is stated by one of the counsel for the appellant, in his printed argument, as follows: "A vessel, without
propelling or steering power, lashed to the side of a tug, is
sunk, as the result of a collision between such tug and another
one. In a libel filed by the tow against both tugs, to which
answers are interposed, in neither of which is negligence causing or contributing to the collision attributed to the tow and
by which each tug seeks to exculpate its6lf and inculpate the
other, a pri mfrnkde case of negligence arises without the necessity of proving the specific acts of negligence by either or both
tugs, and that the decree to be entered in favor of the libellant,
either against one tug alone or against both, is, dependent
entirely upon the nature of the evidence which it is incumbent
upon the tugs to *produce,in order to dgtermine as between
themselves the issues so made by them by their respective
.I
answers."
The propriety and soundness of this rule is supposed in argument to rest upon two general grounds: 1st. It is contended
that the tow which was injured by the collision is in the same
category, as respects both tugs, as that of a vessel at anchor
injured by a collision with a moving vessel, where the burden
of proof is upon the latter to show that it was without fault, or
that the disaster was the result of fault on the part of the com-

OCTOBER TERM,, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

plaining party. 2d. That where it appears, as in the present
case, that the tow, being helpless as to its own navigation, was
without fault on its part, and it is manifest, from the circumstances appearing, on the pleadings, that the collision was
caused either by the fault of one or the other of the tugs, or
was the result of inevitable accident, the burden of proof rests
upon each to establish such facts as excuse it. The argument
is,
that such a disaster could only occur from fault of navigation,
or from that vis m or which is styled inevitable
accident;
that by the supposition the appellant is free from fault; that
consequently it must be that either there was fault on the other
side br inevitable accident, in either of which cases it is incumbent upon the respondent affirmatively to establish its excuse.
It is also contended for the appellant, that if the truth of
the general rule must be admitted, that he who seeks judicially
to establish a claim based upon an alleged default of his adversary must affirmatively establish by proof the facts which justify his complaint; and that the burden of proof, as a principle
of general jurisprudence, is assumed by the plaintiff, unless -the
cause of action is confessed or admitted judicially by the defendant;. yet, it is also true, that if the defendant accompanies a
general denial of the'alleged cause of action with the admission
of such facts as in law constitute his liability, the plaintiff's
case is in fact admitted without other proof. And that, in this
aspect, the libellaut was entitled to a decree below on the basis
of certain admissions of fact in each of the answers inconsistent
with the general denials of fault,
.In our opinion, the burden of proof was upon the appellant
to establish a case of negligence against each of the tugs sepa.ratly and independently., The rule which presumes fault in
a case of collision, against a vessel in motion in favor of one at
anchor, does not apply. In the present case, the' toW, which
whs injured, was not at rest as respects either of the tugs. As
against the ]3owen, the movement and navigation of the tow
was under the control and management of the Dayton; and
in a suit against the Bowen, the tow can have no other or
greater rights, and no -other of better standing in court, than
would the Dayton have had in case the collision had been

THE L. P. DAYTON.
Opinion of the Court.

directly with her, because the tow in such a suit is identifieq
with its own tug, so far, at least, that she cannot escape the
consequences if the collision was caused 'wholly or in part by
the fault of that tug. The Civilta and L7te Restless, 103 U. S.
699; Sturgis v. Boyer, 24 How. 110; The J. H Gautler, 5
Ben. 469; he Cleadon, Lush. 158.
It follows, therefore, that, as respects the Bowen, 'the same'
burden of establishing the fault charged against it rests upon
the libellant in this case, as the law would impose upon the
Dayton if she were the libellant prosecuting for damages
on its own behalf, as to which there could be no question.
As between the tow and its tug, the Dayton, the contract
of towage involves a responsibility for loss upon the tug only
by reason of the want of ordinary care; for a tug is not a common carrier, and does not insure the safety of its tow. In some
cases the facts of the collision, as admitted in the pleadings,
might constitute apr-mafaeie case of negligence, which would
impose upon the tug the duty of explanation and exoneration;
but no such presumption of fault arises in the present case.
Here there was a collision between the tow of one tug and the
tow of another, which may have been caused by a fault of navigation upon the part,of one or both of the tugs. Each charges
fault against the other. As the matter stands, it is indeterminate, being a mere matter of controversy to be adjudged between them upon proof of all the circunstances. In favor of
the injured tow, the libellant in this case, there is no presumption o! fault as against either, nor aga-nst both jointly. There
is hlo presumption against-the Bowen, for the reason we have
already stated; fhere is none against the Dayton,* because
on her behalf all the alleged negligence is denied, and the contrary allegations of the libel canfhot be legally maintained
merely by corresponding allegations in the answer of the
Bowen. To hold otherwise would require that in every
case, as between the tow and its tug, the latter should be
required affirmatively to establish its defence against the presumption of its negligence. There is no ground, in reason or
authority, for making such an exception to the general rule,
which requires the plaintiff, in the first instance, to establish

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
OpinITOn -of the Court.

by proof the allegations of its complaint.

It does not tend to

establish such an exception that it appears by the record 'that
one or th'e other of the respondents must have been so in fault
.s to be liable for the consequences. It still remains that there
is a controversy as to which of the two is guilty, and no decree
can pass without affirming the liability of one or both. That
affirmation must stand upon proof, unless it appears on the
record which, one of the two is at fault, or that both are.
Neither is it material that the facts of the case and -the
causes of the collision are peculiarly within the knowledge ofthe respondents. 'It is alleged in the present case,'as one of
the inconveniences of the libellant's situation, that it would be
compelled, in order to establish the allegations of the libel, -to
resort to the te'stimony of 'hose navigating the respective tugs,
and thus call -witnesses interested to exonerate the vessel to.
which they were attached. We are not aware, however, of
any ground on which such an inconvenience can affect the
rule of law wlich governs the rights of the parties. And perhaps it is counterbalanced by the corresponding interest on
the part of each set of witnesses to fix the fault upon. the
opposing vessel.
It is further argued on the part -of the appellant, that it Was
entitled to a decree below, as against the Bowen, on the
ground of admissions, in the answer filed on its behalf, affirmatively showing negligence and a violation of the rules of navigation tending to produce a collision. .This aspect of the case
was .disposed of by the Circuit Court in the opinion of Mr.
Justice Blatchford, which we adopt, as follows:
"It is urged for the libellants that the answer of the Bowen
shows that she had the Dayton 6n her starboard side, with the
courses of the two vessels crossing so as to involve risk of collision, and that, 'therefore, under rule:19 of ยง 4233 of the Revised Statutes, it was the duty of the Bowen to keep put of
the -way of the Daytoff, and, as she, did not, ap'i-nafaciecase
of negligence is thus made out against her by her answer.
This is an error. The facts stated in the answer of the Bowen
do not show that.the courses of the two tugs were crossing
when- the Bowen discovered the Daytoii. On the contrary,

THE L. P. DAYTON.

353

Opinion-of the Court.

the green light of the Dayton was then visible to the Bowen,
and not her red light, and the Dayton appeared to be going
between the Bowen and the New York shore, to the eastward,
and in a direction which would cause her green light to still
be visible to the Bowen, and her red light to be still invisible.
This would ensure safety and no collision; and, to ensure it
still more, the Bowen blew two whistles and the Dayton answered with two whistles. After that the Bowen starboarded.
Even if -before so starboarding, and while so starboarding the Bowen is to be considered as having the Dayton on her'
starboard side, with the courses of the two vessels crossing,
(which is by no means clear on the averments in the answer of
the Bowen,) her answer shows that she took proper measures
to keep out of the way of the Dayton; that such measures
were assented to at the time by the Dayton as proper, and
that then the Dayton changed her course and went across the
1)ow of the ]Bowen. Under these circmnstances the Bowen
slowed, stopped, and backed.
"The answer of the Bowen states substantially that there
was imminent danger of collision if she kept on. There is
nothing in all this to show negligence in the Bowen. When
the Dayton so came suddenly across the bow of the Bowen, a
case was not made 'within rule 19, 'although in that position
the Bowen had the Dayton on her starboard side, and their
comses were crossing; and even if it were, the answer shows
-that the Bowen cid all she could to keep out of the way of the
Dayton.
"The libel, so far from alleging that it was a fault in the
Bowen to slow, stop, and back, alleges, as a fault in her, that
she did not reverse, or did not do so soon enough. The isolated fact of her slowing, stopping, and backing cannot be.
taken away from the connection in which it is found in the
answer and separated fr~m the cirommstx-ces under-which the
answer states it occurred, particuily as the libel states distinctly that it was a fault in her not to reverse." 18 Blatchford, 411, 418.
Decree affi med.
VOL. cxx-23

