-

UNITED STATES. v. NORTHWAY.

327

Statement of Facts.

UNITED - STATES v. NORTRWAY.
CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION FROM THE

CIROUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STA.TES FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

Argued January 4,5,1887.-Decided February 7,1887.
The question whether either of the counts in an indictment charges an
offence under the laws of the United States, is too vague and general to
be certified in a Certificate of Division of Opinion..,
An indictment charging that the defendant, "as lxesiddnt and agent" of r
national bank, -did the acts forbidden by Rev. Stat. § 5209, does not
vitiate the counts in which he is so described.
In an indictment, under Rev. Stat. § 520a, for wilfully misapplying the funds
of a national bank, it is not necessary to charge that the moneys and
funds alleged to have been misapplied had been previously intrusted to
the defendant; since a wilful and criminal misapplication of the funds
of the association may be made by its officer or agent without having
previously received them into his manual possdssion,
In eharging, in an indictment, the president of a bank with aiding and ktbettiug its cashier in the misapplication of the funds of the bank, it is.
not necessary to aver that h4 then and there knew that the person so
aided and abetted was.the cashier. ,
An indictment which charges in substance that the defendant was president
and agent of a certain national bank theretofore duly organized and established,, and then existing and doing business, under the laws of the
United States, and that, being such president and agent, he did than and
there "wilfuUy and unlawfully* and with intent to injure the said
national banking association, and without the knowledge and consent
thereof, abbtract and convert to his own use certain. moneys and funds
,of the property of the said association of the amount and value," etc.,
sufficiently describes and identifies the crime of abstracting the funds'of
the bank created by ReV. Stat. § 5209.
An indictment which charges that the defendant "was then and there
president and agent' of a certain national banking association, to .wit:
[naming the association] theretofore duly organized and established, and
then existing and doing busines at [naming the place] under the laws
of the United States," sufficiently §tates that that bank was otganized
under the national banking act, or to carry on the business of banking
under a law of the United States.

THIs was a certificate of division of opinion as to the sufficiency of the counts in an indictment for abstracting and
misapplying the funds of a national bank. The case is stated
in the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

.Ifr.Solici.or Generalfor the United States.
.3i. J. B. Burrows and I.& A. J. _Marvin for the defendant.
MR. JUSTICE MAI'iEws delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 23d of April, 1885, the grand jury for the Eastern
Division of the Northern District of Ohio returned an indictment, apparently founded upon § 5209 of the Revised Statutes,
against Stephen A. Northway, as president and agent of the
Second National Bank of Jefferson, a national banking association. On July 13, 1885, the record was, on motion of the
district attorney, remitted to the Circuit Court. There are
fifty-.ine counts in the indictment; all of these were 4uashed
except counts 2, 12, 15, 16, 28, 30, and 46, to each of which
the defendant interposed a general demurrer., This demurrer
came on for hearing before the Circuit Court, composed of the
circuit judge and the district judge for that district, who certify
to us that on the hearing they were divided and opposed in
opinion on the following questions :
"1st. Whether either of said counts charges defendant with
an offence under the laws ofthe LTnited States.
" d. Whether the charging of the defendant with committing the acts therein charged against him as 'president and
agent' did not vitiate said counts of said indictment.
"3d. Whether under § 5209 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States it was necessary in the indictment to charge
that the moneys and funds alleged to have been embezzled
and inisapplied, or either, had been previously intrusted to
the defendant.
"4th. Whether it is necessary in charging said defendant
with aiding aiid abetting Sylvester T. Fuller, cashier of said
bank, as in counts sixteen, twenty-eight, and forty-six, with
the misapplication of the funds of said bank, to charge that
the defendant then and there knew that said Fuller was such
cashier.
"15th. Whether said second cbunt sufficiently describes and
identifies the crime of abstracting the funds of the bank created
by the act of Congress.,

tNITED STATES v. NORTHWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

"6th. -Whether the indictment sufficiently states that the
Second National Bank of Jefferson was organized under the
national banking act, or to carry on the business of banking
under a law of the United States."
Section 5209 of the Revised Statutes, under which this indictment appears to have been drawn, is as follows:
"SEc. 5209. Every president, director, cashier, teller, clerk,
or agent of any association, who embezzles, abstracts, or wilfully misapplies any of the moneys, fuhds, or credits of the
association; or who, without authority from the directors,
issues or puts in circulation any of the notes-of the association;
or who, without such authority, issues or puts forth any certificate of deposit, draws any order or bill of exchange, makes
any acceptance, assigns any note, bond, draft, bill of exchange,
mortgage, judgment, or decree,; or who makes any false entry
in any book, report, or -statement of the association, with in-tent, in either case, to injure or defraud the association or any
other company, body politic or corporate, or any individual
person, or to deceive any officer of the association,. or any
agent appointed to examine the affairs of any such association;
and every person who with like intent aids or abets any officer,
clerk, or agent in any violation of this section, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall Tie imprisoned not less than
five years nor more than ten."
We proceed to dispose of the several questions certified to
us .intheir order.
1st. The question whether either of said counts charges said
defendant with an offence under the laws of the United States,
which is the first one certified, we decline to answer, for the
reason that it is too 'vague and general, within the act of Congress authorizing certificates of this character and the repeated
decisions of this court.
2d. We are of opinion- that charging the defendant with
committing the acts therein charged against him"as "president
and agent" did not vitiate the counts of the indictment in
which that description is ontained. The only grounds- on
which the 'contrary conclusion could be predicated are. that
the allegation is either too uncertain or is contradictory.

OCTOBER TERAM, 1886.
Opiuion of the Court.

The allegation is not uncertain, as it might have been if 'it
had been "president or agent." In that case, it might have
been urged, that, as the offence was charged to have been
committed by the defendant either as president or agent, it,
was uncertain in which of these capacities he was charged.
For, although it might be said that a president is ex oflciv
agent of the association, there may be many agents who are
not president. Here the description is that he was "president
and agent," and dommitted the offence charged in some
capacity described by both terms. N~either is the description
contradictory, because he may be both president and agent.
There is no repugnance in the two characters. Even on the
supposition that the statute means to make a distinction
between the two offices of president and agent, thete is
nothing in the nature of either to prevent them both being
held at the same time by one person, and the acts charged
may in contemplation of law have been committed by him
in both capacities.
A fwotiori may this be the case, if every president of such
an association is to be held by virtue of his office to be also,
within the meaning of the 'act, an agent of the association.
In that case, the use of the iwords "and agent" would be
mere surplusage in the indictment.. Being already included
within the meaning of the word "president," it does not add
anything to the description to introduce the words "and
agent." This question is, therefore, answered in the negative.
3d." The twelfth count of the indictment charges that the
defendant, with proper allegations of time and place, "was then
and there president and agent of a 'certain national banking
association, to wit, 'The Second" iNational Bank of Jefferson,'
theretofore duly organized and established, and then existing
and doing business, in the village of Jefferson and county of
Ashtabula, 'in the division and district aforesaid, under the
laws of the United States; and the said Stephen A. Northway, as such president and agent, then and there had and
received in and into his possession certain of the'moneys and
funds of said banking association of the amount and value
of twelve thousand dollars, to wit,

.

then and there

UNITED STATES 'v. NORTHWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

being the property of said banking association,
.
and
then and there being in the possession of said Stephen A.
Northway, as such president and agent aforesaid, he, the said
Stephen A. Northway, then and there
.
wrongly,
unlawfully, and with intent to injure and defraud said banking association,- did embezzle and convert to his, said Stephen
A. Northway's, own use," &c.
The fifteenth count is for wrongfully, unlawfully, and
wilfully misapplying certain described *funds of the bank,
with intent to injure the association, and without the knowl-,
edge and consent thereof, by paying and causing to be paid
to certain persons, out of the moneys, funds, and credits then
and there belonging to the property of -the association, a large
sum of money in the purchase'by him, the said North way,
for the use, benefit, and advantage of himself, of a large
number of shares of the capital stook of certain stock companies. It is not alleged in this count that the moneys and
funds so alleged to have been misapplied had previously come
into the possession of the defendant by virtue of his office
and character of president and agent.
In respect to the counts for embezzlement, it is quite clear
that the allegation is sufficient, as it distinctly alleges that the
moneys and funds charged to have been embezzled were at
the time in the possession of the defendant as president and
agent. This necessarily means that they had come into his
possession in- his official character, so that he held them in
trust for the use and benefit of the association. In respect
to those funds, the charge against him is that he embezzled
them by converting them to his own use. This ,ve think
fully and exactly describes the offence of embezzlement under
the act by an officer and agent of the association.
With respect to the fifteenth count, and other similar counts
charging a wilful misapplication of the funds of the bank, this
allegation is omitted; that is, it is not alleged that the moneys
tnd funds charged to have been misapplied had previously
come into the possess:on of the defendant. Neither do we
think this to be nece3sary to a description of the offence. A
wilful and criminal misapplication of the funds of the associa-

332

OCTOBER TERM, i886.
Opiniou of the Court.

tion may be made by an officer or agent of the bank without
having previously received them into. his manual possession.
In the case of the United States v. Britton, 107 U. S. 655, 669,
the offence of wilfully misapplying the funds of a banking
association, as defined by the statute, was considered with
reference to the facts in that case. It was there held that. a
wiful aild criminal misapplication of the funds, as defined .by
§ 5209, did not include every case of an unlawful application
of funds, inasmuch as in the very statute itself there were
other instances of unlawful misapplication, evidently not embraced within the intention of § 5209. For that reason it was
held, in that case, that it was necessary to specify the particulars of the application, so as to distinguish that charged in
the indictment as wilful and criminal from those others contemplated by the statute which were unlawful but not criminal ; and it was held to be of the essence of the criminality
of the misapplication that there should be a conversion of the
funds to the use of the defendant, or of some person other
than the association, with intent to injure and defraud the
association, or some other body corporate or natural .person.
iNow, if in addition it be necessary to the commission of the
offence of wilfully misapplying the funds of the bank that they
should have come previously into the possession of the defendant in his official capacity, so that he could be said to have
been intrusted with their possession, all distinction between
the offences of wilfully misapplying the funds and of embezzlement would disappear. But it is evidently the intention of the
statute not to use the words "embezzle" and "wilfully misapply" as synonymous. In order to misapply the funds of the
bank iAis not necessary that the officer charged should be in
actual possession of .them by virtue of a trust committed to
him. He may abstract them from the other funds of the bank
unlawfully, and afterwards criminally misapply them, or by
virtue of hi§ pfficial relation .to the bank he may have such
control, direction, and power of management as to direct an
application of the funds in such a manner and under such circumstances as to constitute the offence of wilful misapplication. 'And when it is charged, as in the counts of this indict-

UNITED STATES v. NORTHWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

ment, that he did wilfully misapply certain funds beloilging to
the association, by causing them to be paid out to his own use
and benefit in unauthorized and unlawful purchaes without
the knowledge and consent of the association, and with the
intent to injure it, it necessarily implies that the acts charged.
were done by him in his official capacity, and by virtue of
power, control, and management which he was enabled to
exert by virtue of his official relation. This, we think, completes tle offence intended by the statute of a wilful misapplication of the moneys and funds of a national banking association. We, therefore, answer the third question in the negative.
4th. The fourth question is whether it isnecessary, in charging the defendant with aiding and abetting Sylvester T. Fuller,
the cashier of the bank, with the misapplication of its funds,
to charge that the defendant then and there knuw that said
Fuller was such cashier. We answer this question in the
negative. The counts in question charge Fuller with having
made the misapplication of the funds of the bank as cashier.
They further allege that the defen&ant, being president :and
agent of the association, wilfully, knowingly, and unlawfully,
and with intent to injure said banking association, before the
misdemeanor was committed, "did aid, abet, incite, counsel,
and procure the said Sylvester T. Fuller, he, the said Fuller,
then and there being cashier and agent as aforesaid, so as
aforesaid to wrongfrlly, unlawfully, and wilfully misapply,"
&c. We do not think it is necessary, in an indictment for this
offence, to charge any scienter more distinctly. The acts
charged against Fuller could only be committed by him .by
virtue of his official relation to the bank; the acts charged
against the defendant likewise could only be committed by
him in his official capacity. Both are alleged to be officers of
the same corporation. The knowledge that each had of the
official relation of the other is necessarily implied in the coex-

istence of this official relation on. the part of both towards the
same corporation. It is as cashier that Fuller was aided and
abetted by the defendant iii the commission of his offence.
This allegation necessarily imputes knowledge of his official
character.

OCTOBER TERM,, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

5th. The secoiid count of the indictment is for the offence
of abstracting the moneys and funds of the association. In
substance, it charges that the defendant was president and.
agent of the Second National Bank of Jefferson, theretofore
duly organized and established, and then existing and doing
business, under the laws of the United States; and that thedefendant, being president and agent as aforesaid, did then
and there "wilfully and unlawfully, and with intent to injure
the said national banidug association, and without the knowledge and consent thereof, abstract and convert to his, the said
Stephen A. Northway's, own use certain moneys and funds
of the property of said association, of the amount and value,"
&c. We see no reason to doubt the sufficiency of this description of the offence. , It is true that the word "abstract," as
used in this statute, is n',t a word of settled technical meaning
like'the word "embezzle" as used in statutes defining the
offence of embezzlement, and the words "steal, take; and
carry away," as used to define the offence of larceny at common law. It is a word, however, of simple, popular meaning,
without ambiguity. It means to take or withdraw from, so
that to abstract the funds of the bank, or a portion of them,
is to take and withdraw from the possession and control of the
bank the moneys and funds alleged to be so abstracted. This,
of course, does not embrace every element of that which under
this section of the statute is made the offence of criminally
abstracting the funds of the bank. To constitute that offenbe,
within the meaning of the act, it is necessary that the moneys
and funds should be abstracted from the bank without its
knowledge and consent, with the intent to injure or defraud it
or some other company or person, or to deceive some officer of
the association, or an agent -appointed to exaiine its affairs.
All these elements are contained in the description of the
offence in the count in question; the count is, therefore, suffi
cient within the decisions of this court upon similar statutes.
United Stated v. J1'1ls, 7 Pet. 138 ; United States v. Simmons,
96 U. S. 360; United States v. Carll, 105 U. S. 611; Vnited
States v. Britton, 107 U. S. 655.
Unlike the word "misapply," as used in the same section,

UNITED STATES v. NORTHWAY.

335*

Opinion of the Court.

the word "abstract" is.not ambiguous, because it does not
appear from other parts of the statute that there are two
'or more kinds of abstracting, both unlawful, but only one
described as a criminal offence. The word "abstract,," as used
in the statute, therefore, has but one meaning, being that which
is attached to it in its ordinary and popular use. It is to be
accepted with that meaning in framing an indictment under
the section, which is not required, in order to be sufficient, to
contain more than those allegations which are necessary, when
added to the allegation of abstracting, to complete the descrip-'
tion of the offence intended by the statute. This the count in
question sufficiently does.
It is contended, however, on behalf of the defendant, that.
the offence of "abstracting "' the moneys and funds of the
bank under this section of the statute is exactly equivalent
to the offence of larceny, and that it can only be'technically
and appropriately described by the words used to describe the
offence of larceny. So that the charge should have been "did
abstract, take, and carry away." The answer to this point, it
seems to us, is twofold: If, as is contended, an analysis of the
section of the statute demonstrates that the legislative intent
was simply to describe the offence of larceny by an officer or
agent of the bank of its funds, then there is no ambiguity or
uncertainty in using the word " abstract " in the indictment,
as used in the statute, fully to describe the offence charged;
for, according to the argument, it can mean nothing else, and
the legislature, by substituting the word "abstract" for the
words which are required technically to describe the offence
of larceny, have justified the, use of the same word in the*
indictment. fBut, in the next place, we do not admit the
proposition that the offence of "abstracting " the funds of
the bank under this section is necessarily equivalent to the
offence of larceny. The offence of larceny is not complete
without the animus furandi,the intent to deprive the owner
of his property, but under § 5209 an officer of the bank may
be guilty of "abstracting -" the funds and money and credits
of the bank without that particular intent. The statute may
be satisfied with an intent to injure-or defraud some other

OCTOBER TERM,- 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

company, body politic or corporate, or individual person, than
the banking association whose property is abstracted, or merely
to deceive some other officer of the association, or an agent
appointed to examini its affairs. This intent may exist in a
case of abstracting withbut that intent -which is necessary to
constitute the offence of stealing. We answer the fifth
question, therefore, in the affirmative.
6th. The sixth question is whether the indictment sufficiently
states that the Second National Bank of Jefferson was organized under the national binking act, or to carry on the business of banking under the laws of the United States. The
language of the indictment is that the defendant "was then
and there president and agent of a certain national banking
association,.to wit : ' The Second National Bank of Jefferson,'
theretofore duly organized and establish6t and then existing
and doing business at the village of Jefferson and county of
Ashtabula, in the division and district aforesaid, under the laws
of the United States."
We do not understand the. necessity pf this question; the
allegation seems to be perfectly explicit. Th6 defendant is
charged-by virtue of his office as president and agent of a
national -banking association, to wit: The Second National
Bank of Sefferson, which, it is further alleged, had been theretofore duly organized and established and was then existing
and doing business under the laws. of the United States. This
can mean only that it was organized and established as a banking association under the act of Congress authorizing the or*ganization and establishment of -national banks, and that it
was in existence and doing business at the time of the alleged
offence as sudii natiqnal banking association, because it could
not be organized and established and existing and doing business under the laws of the United States in any other dapacity.
This question is accordingly answered in the affirmative.
These answers will be accordingly certified to the Circuit
Court.

