HARMON v. ADAMS.
Opihion of the Court.

tend at the term of the court at which any such action is
proposed to be taken, who shall be associated with the
county judge and cofistitute the county court for the
occasion."
It is sufficient to say that, as that provision, by its terms,
only applies to laws "hereafter enacted," that is, enacted after
the general statutes went into operation, it cannot affect the
present case, which-depends upon the cbnstruction to be given
to an act passed in 1868.
As the court below erred in sustaining the demurrer to the
original petition,
The judgment is 'reversed, 'with. directions to overrule tkat
dermurrer, and for such other proceedings*as may be consistent with this opinion.

HARMON v. ADAMS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted January 10, 1887.-Decided February 7, 1887.

An agreement by the payee of a promissory note to release the maker from
the payment of the principal on the payment, in advance each year, until
p:.yee's death, of interest at a rate above the legal rate, is no defence in asuit by the payee's executor, without proof of such payment until is
defth,

Assumsrr on a promissory note. Judgmbnt for plaintiffs.
Defendant sued out this writ of*error. The case is stated, in
the opinion of the court.
Mrb. Ckarkes EI. WVood and 3.
in error.
Afr. John P'.
MR. JusTiCE

Robert -Doyle for plaintiff

Fileo* for defendants in error.

MATrHEwS delivered the opinion of the court.

This whs an action of assumpsit, brought in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois, on
September 25, 1885, the plaintiffs being executors of Jacob

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opinion of thb Court.

Harmon, deceased, citizens of Indiana, and the defendants citizens of Illinois. The action was fomunded on a promissory note
signed by the defendants, dated March 1, 1875, payable one
year after date to 'the order of Jacob Harmon, for $15,000,
with interest at ten per cent. per annum, from date until paid,
with a proviso that if the note was collected by suit the judgment should include a reasonable fee for the plaintiffs' attorney. A copy of the note, with the indorsements thereon, was
set out with the declaration, showing that the interest thereon
had been paid to March 1, 1885. The plea was the- general
issue. The case was tried by a jury, who returned a verdict in
favor of the plaintiffs below, the judgment on which is brought
into review by this writ of error.
From the bill of exceptions it appears that the following
took place on the trial:
"Upon the said trial the defendants introduced proof tending to show that there was a verbal agreement between themselves -and Jacob Harmon, the payee of the note, that if they
would pay the interest regularly, at the rate of ten per cent.
per annum, as called for by the note, until, his death, they
should be acquitted of the payment of the principal -in other
words, that the money represented by the note was given to
them upoh condition that they should pay the interest thereon,
duking the life of Jacob Harm6n, at the rate of ten per cent.
per annum.
"The defendants also offered to prove that in the forepart
of the year 1880, after the said note in suit had become due,
they offered to pay Jacob Harmon the amount then due on
said note, with interest, and proposed to do so, unless he would
reduce the interest; whereupon the said Jacob Harmon verbally'agreed that if they would continue to pay him the interest
upon the sum of money represented by said note during his
life, and pay in November of each year the interest in advance
for four months, or, if they failed to pay the interest, in advance for four months, should pay interest upon the interest
so unpaid, then the said defendants should be acquitted of and
released' from the payment of the principal sum of.said note
at the death of said Jacob Harmon, which the court refused

HARMON r. ADAMS.
Opinion of -the Court.

to be pemitted to be proved, and the defendants tlien and
there excepted.
"And the court being of opinion that the facts so offered in
evidence by the defendants, and the said facts which the dofendants offered to prove, would not make a sufficient defence
at law, if proven" in the said case, directed the jury to return a
verdict for the plaintiff therein, and the verdict was taken accordingly; to all of which the defendants then and there duly
excepted."
These rulings of the court are now assigned for error. In
support of the assignments of error, the ilaintiffs in error
maintain this proposition, viz.: That an agreement by the
payor, after the note becomes due, to keep the money and pay
interest thereon at the rate of ten per cent. per annum till the
death of the payee, constitutes a sufficient consideration for an
agreement 6n the part of the payde that he will then consider
the note cancelled and paid, where the payor from the time of
such agreement coutinues'to pay such interest on the note un.
til the death of the payee. This proposition should be considered in connection with the fact that in the year 1879, and
therefore after the note in suit had become due, the interest
laws of Illinois were so changed as to make eight per cent.
per annum the maximum rate of interest that could be thereafter contracted for. iurd's General Statutes, 1885, chap. 74,
p. 736.
The agreement proved, and that to prove which evidence
was offered, were both unilateral. The promise alleged was
by the payee of the note, not in consideration of a promise, on
the part of the payor, but on condition that he perform what
was to be done; viz.: payment of the interest it the rate and
in the mode agreed until the death of the payee. It became
essential, therefore, to the defence, to establish the fact that
this undertaking had been fully performed, by proof of the
payment of the interest as agreed until the death of Jacob
Tlarmon. This fact is assumed in the brief of the counsel for
the plaintiffs.,in error, but it nowhere appears in the record.
The bill of- exceptions does not state when Jacob Harmon
died; it does not appeaf elsewhere in the record. All we can

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

know from that is that he must have died before the institution
of the suit, which was began by his executor3 on September
25, 1885, but whether before or after March 1, 1885, we cannot infer, that being the date up to which interest was paid.
If he died after that date, then the condition on which his
promise could be enforced against his executors had not been
fulfilled. On this point, therefore, the defence failed.
Judgment affirmed.
Harmonv. Adams. Error to the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern District of Illinois.
Ir. Justice M3atthews: The
record in this case involves no other questions than those just decided'in the foregoing case. The judgment is therefore

Affirmed.

DURAND v. MARTIN.
ERROI TO THE SUPREME coU-Rr OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted January 13, 1887. -Deeided

February 7, 1887.

Lands listed to California as indemnity school lands, and patented by the
State, are not open to predmptiou settlement while in possession of the
patentee.
The act of March 1, 1877, 19 Stat. 267, "relating to indemnity school lands
in the State of California," was a full and complete ratifiction by Congress, according to its terms, of the lists of indemnity school selections
which had been before that time certified'to the State of California, by
the United States as indemnity school selections, no matter how defective or insufficient such certificates might originally have been, if the
lands included in the lists were not any of those mentioned in ยง 4, and if
they had not been taken up in good faith by a homestead or preemption
settler prior to the date of the certificate.

Tins was an action to recover the possession of land in California, brought, and prosecuted to final judgnent, in the courts
of that state. The facts which make the Federal case for this

court are stated in the opinion of the court.

