QUINCY v. STEEL.
Counsel for Appellant.
United ,States"' v. Atlantic and Pacific Railroad Company.
Same counsel as in the last case. Mr. Justice Field delivered the
opinion of the court. It is agreed by counsel of the parties that
this case involves the same question as that decided in United Statt.
v. Pacific Railroad, and, therefore, on the authority of that
decision, the judgment below is
Affirmed.

QUINCY v. STEEL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted January 4, 1887.-

Decided January 31, 1887.

The city of Quincy, Illinois, in 1877 contracted with an Illinois corpoiation
to supply it with gas for four years. Disputes arose, payments were in
arrear, and in May, 1881, the city notified the company that it would be
no longer bound by the contract. A, a citizen of Alabama, on the 13th,
August, 1885, filed a bill in equity in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Southern District of Illinois, setting forth that the company had a
claim against the city recoverable at law, that he had at different times
tried to induce the directors to enforce it, that he was, and for more than
four years had been, a stockholder in the company, that he had not succeeded in inducing the directors to institute suit, that his last request
was made August 1, 1885, that the claims were about to be barred by'the
statute of limitations, and he asked for a mandamus to compel the payment of the company's debt. The respondent demurred. This court sustains- the demurrer, on the ground that the real contest being between
two Illinois corporations, the proper remedy was an action at law by one
of those corporations against the otherupon the contract, and that A has
not, by the averments in his bill, brought himself within the directions
prescribed by Equity Rule 94, 104 U. S. ix-x, respecting suits brought by
stockholders in a corporation against 'the cor'poration and other parties,
founded on rights which might be properly asserted by the corporaton.

Tmis was a bill in equity. Respondent demurred. Decree
for complainant, from which respondent appealed. The case
is stated in the opinion of the court.
-Yr. George A. Anderson, _3r. Joselh N. Carter, -Mr.Willianm H. Govert, and -2M. L. . Berger for appellants.
VOL. cxx-16

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

Jfr. TM
icz
lf
MRI.

3.eFadon for appellee.

JUSTICE MILL-EX

delivered the opinion of Lhe court.

This is an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Southern District of Illinois.
James W . Steel, the complainant in the Circuit Cqurt, is a
citizen of Alabama, and he brings his bill against the city of
Quincy, a municipal corporation of the State of Illinois, and
the Quincy Gas Light and Coke Company, also a corpcvationq
of that state. He sets out a contract between the city of
Quincy and the gas company, dated February 14, 187.7, the
only parts of which in this connection of any importance being
that the gas company was to furnish a certain number of
lighted lanips for the streets of said city, for which the city
agreed to pay a fixed price per annum. This contract was to
continue for five years. The city failed to pay the full amount
due for gas in any one year, but paid a part of the bill on each
year as long as the gas company continued to furnish the *as.
On -May 11, 1881, the city passed an ordinance declaring that
it no longer recognized -as binding the agreement between it
and the gas company, under which the gas had been furnished,
and notifying the company of that fact. The company, however, continued to furnish gas until November, 1883.
Instead of a suit by the gas company against the. city of
Quincy, in an action at law to enforce the rights of the company uy a judgment, and by an appropriate writ of mandamus
if the city did not pay the judg.nent, the present suit is brought
by Mr. Steel in Iais" own name, on the ground that he is a
stockholder in the gas company; and, as the allegations on
this branch of the subject, on which he relies as his authority'
to 'maintain this suit, are important, they are given here verbatim from the bill.
lHe says "that your orator is advised and believes, and so
states the fact to be, that the said company has a just and
valid claim against said city of Quincy- and one recoverable
ip the courts by sonie suit or suits in the name of said company; that your orator has at different times endeavored to

QUINCY v. STEEL.

243

Opinion of the Court.

induce the board of directors of said company to institute a
suit or suits to recover the said claim against said city; that
your orator now is, and for more than four years last past has
been, a stockholder in said company; that he now has, and
during the entire period last aforesaid has had, seventy-five
shares of the capital stock of said company; that said lastnamed endeavors have been made while your orator was said
stockholder; that so far, and u to noiv, your orator has not
succeeded in persuading said directors to institute as aforesaid;
that your orator, on August 1, 1885, caused to be addressed to
said board a communication in writing, directing and requiring
said board to resolve to at once institute suit against said city
of'Quincy, in the name of said company, in such court or
courts as wene proper, for the recovery of said claim; t]bat said
board of directors laid said communication upoA the table, as
your orator is informed and believes, and therefo'e so states,
and refused to agree to comply with the request therein contained; that whatever claim said company has by reason of
the matters and things above alleged will be barred in consid.erable part before a meeting of the stockholdcrs of said company will occur; that a part of said claim either has been or is
al)out to be barred by the statute of limitations; that further
delay in bringing suit will result in a part of said claim being
barred by thd statute of limitations; and that this suit is
brought in good faith, and for the collection of, and to compel
the collection of, what your orator believes to be a meritorious
claim."
The decree of the court below was rendered on a demurrer
to the bill ified by the city of Quincy, which, being overruled,
the city refused to plead further, and decree was thereupon
fendered against it. This decree, made on the 1st day of
March, 1886, among other things, "orders, adjudges, and
decrees that said The Quincy Gas Light and Coke Company
have and recover of said defendant city of Quincy the sun of
836,116.21." It then makes provision for the enforcement
of this decree by certain orders concerning future annual
appropriations to be made by the city for panent out of its
annual tax levy.

OCTOBER TERAI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

We are of opinion that the demurrer of the city of Quincy
should have been sustained, for the reason that Mr. Steel shows
no sufficient ground why he should have been permitted as a
stockholder of the gas company to sustain this bill. In order
to do this the circumstances must be such as to justify the
court, in the interest of justice, to override two cardinal principles of Federal jurisprudence. One of these is, that the litigants in the Federal courts, where the right to sustain such
litigation depends upon the citizenship of the parties, shall be
citizens of different states. In this case the real right of action
and the real contest before the court, if it had proceeded, would
have been between the two corporations, organized under the
laws of Illinois, and existing and doing business in the same
place, to wit, the gas company and the city of Quincy. By
sustaining this bill the gas company recovers a judgment in
terms against the city for the 'amount in controversy under the
contract.
The other principle which it is necessary to override is, that
in the Federal Dourts the distinction between actions at.law
and suits in equity has always been kept up. In the -present
case it is but a plain suit to recover damages on a written contract by the one corporation against the other on account of a
violation of that contract, except as Mr. Steel endeavors to
bring himself into the case as having rights which he cannot
enforce in a court of law. It is purely and simply a suit to
recover money on a written contract in an action in the nature
of assumpsit.
If, therefore, Mr. Steel, by virtue of being a citizen of Alabama, has any right to prosecute this suit in a court of the
United States, and in a court of equity instead of a court of
law, it is very bbvious that he shou-ld make this right plain.
Prior to 1875 cases had come into the courts of the United
States, especially into the Circuit Courts, where citizenship had
been simulated, and parties improperly made or joined either
as plaintiffs or defendants, for the purpose of creating a case
cognizable in the Circuit Courts originhlly, or removable thereto
from the state courts; and as it very frequently occurred that
both plaintiffs and defendarits were willing to seek that court

QUINCY v. STEEL.
Opinion of the Court.

in preference-to the state courts, it had been found very difficult to prevent these improper cases from being tried in those
courts. In the act of March 3, 1875, an attempt was made to
correct this evil; and by the fifth section of that act it was
declared "that if, in any suit commenced in a Circuit Court,
or removed from a state court to a Circuit Court of the United
States, it shall appear to the satisfaction of said Circuit Court,
at any time after such suit has been brought or removed thereto,
that such suit does not really and lubstantially involve a dispute or controversy properly within the jurisdiction of said
Circuit Court, or that the parties to said suit have been impiroperly or collusively made or joined, either as plaintiffs or defendants, for the purpose of creating a case -ognizable or removable
under this act, the said Circuit Coiirt 9fial1 proceed no further
therein, but shall dismiss the suit or remand it to the court
fron.whence it was removed, as justice may require."
In the cases of Hawes v. Oakland, 104 U. S. 450, and Hun,
tington, v. Palme', 104 U. S. 482, the question 'of the growth
of the form of invoking Federal jurisdiction, where it does not
otherwise exist, by the attempt of a corporation which cannot
ste in the Federal court to bring its grievance into that court
by a suit in the name of one of its stockholders who has the
requisite citizenship, was very much considered. In order to
give effect t6 the principles there laid down this court at that
term adopted Rule 94 of the Rules of Practice for Courts of
Equity of the United States, which is as follows:
" "Every bill brought by one or more stdckholders in a corporation, against the corporation and other parties, founded
on rights which may properly be asserted by the corporation,
must be verified by oath, and must contain an allegation that
the plaintiff was a shareholder at the time of the transaction
of which he complains, or that his share had devolved on him
since, by operation of law; and that the suit is not a collusive
one to confer on a court of the United States jurisdiction of a
case of which it would not otherwise have cognizance. It must
also set forth with particularity the efforts of the plaintiff to
secure such action as he desires on the part of the managing
directors or trustees, and, if necessary, of the shareholders, and

.2-.16

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion. of the Court.

the causes of his failure to obtain such action."

104 U. S.

IX-X.

The bill in the present case, although verified by oath, is
far from complying with the letter or the spirit of this rule.
It does not contain an allegation that the plaintiff was a shareholder at the time of the transaction of which he complains,
althouigh the allegation on that subject includes a part of the
time in which the city of Quincy failed to pay for its gas; but
inasmuch as the sworn allegation in the, bill.was made on the
18th day of August,1885, and he there swears that he had
been the owner of the stock on which he brings this suit over
four years, it is easy to suppose that he acquired this stock
after the 11th day. of May, 1881, on which day the city by its
official action notified the gas company that it repudiated the*
contract and would no longer be bound byit. And it is not
an unreasonable supposition that the gas eompany, forseeing
litigation which it might be desirable for that company to
have carried on in a Federal court, immediately after receiving notice of that resolution had this stock placqd in the
hands of Mr. Steel for the purpose of securing.that object, and
though the suit was delayed for two or three years, it was
prdbably because the city continued to pay some partof the
demand for the gas furnished by the company. The bill does
not contain the allegation expressly prescribed by,this rule,
that "the suit is not a collusive one to confer on a court of
the tYnited'States jurisdiction of a case of which it would not
otherwise have cognizance." The allegation of the bill, "that
this suit is brought in good faith, and for the collection of, and
to compel the collection of, -vhat your orator believes to be a
meritorious claim," is by no means the equivalent of this provision of the rule, for it may very well be understood that the
party who is seeking to, enforce a debt which he believes.to be
due-is acting in good faith for the purpose of compelling its collection, while he may be well aware that he is imposing upon
the court to which he actually resorts a jurisdiction which
does not belong to it.
The rule also requires that he must set forth with particularity his efforts to secure action on the part of the managing

QUINCY &. STEEL.

247'

Opinion of the iOourt.

directors or trustees of the corporation of which he is a member, and, if necessary, of the shqreholders, and the causes, of
his failure to obtain such action. In' the case before us he
seems to have made but a single effort to induce the directors
of the gas company to institute a suit against the city to v -,
cover the money, and this.was by a communication in writing
addressed to the board, August 1, 1885. No, copy of that letter is produced, but it is said that the board of directors laid
the communication on the table. No copy of the order of thie
board upon that subject is produced; no effort at conversation
with any of the directors, or any earnest effort of any kind
upon his part to induce the.directors to bring the suit is shown
in the bill; no attempt to call the attention of the shareholders
to this matter during the four years in which he said he was
a shareholder, and during which time the city was failing to
pay its debt to the gas company, nor any effort at any of the
meetings of the shareholders or of the directors to induce them
to enforce the rights of the company against the city, is shown.
The most meagre description possible of a bare demand in
writing, made sixteen days before the institution of this suit,.
is all we have of the efforts which he should have made to induce this corporation to assert its rights. This letter was addressed to the board of directors, August 1, 1-885, from what
point is not stated, but it may reasonably be inferred that it
was from Alabama, .of which state he was a citizen. The bill
itself is sworn to the 13th day of August thereafter. How long
a time was left for the consideration of this question by.the
board of directors, and what earnest efforts Mr. Steel may have
made to induce their favorable action, may be easily inferred
from the speed with whIch the bill wag sworn to in Alabama
and filed after he addressed his letter to the board. The inference that the whole of this proceeding was a preconcerted
and simulated arrangement to foist upon the Circuit Court of
the United States jurisdiction in a case which did not fairly
belong to it, is very strong.
In the case of H'awes v. Oakland, -104 U. S. 450, 461, .in
speaking of this perfunctory effort to induce the' trustees of the
corporation to act, it is said: "He (the plaintiff) must make

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

an earnest, not a simulated, effort with the managing body of
the corporation to induce renedial action on their part, and
this must be made apparent to the court. If time permits or
has permitted, he must show, if he fails with the directors, that
he has made an honest effort to obtain action by the stockholders, as a body, in the matter of which he complains. And
he mijst show a case, if this is not done, where it could not be
done, or it was not reasonable to require it." Again it is said:
"He merely avers that he requfested the president and directors
to desist from furnishing water free of expense to the city,
except in case of fire or other great necessity, and that they
declined to do as he requested. No correspondence on the
subject is given. No reason for declining. . . . No attempt
to consult the other shireholders to ascertain their opinions
or obtain their action. But within five days after his application to the directors this bill is filed."
In the case of Huntington v. Palmer, 104 U. S. 482, 483, the
court says: "Although the company is the party injured by
the taxation complained of, which must be paid out of its treasury if paid at all, the suit is not brought in its name, but in
that of one of its stockholders. Of course, as we have attempted
to show in the case just mentioned, JHawesv. Oakland,this cannot be done without there has been an honest and earnest effort
by the complainant to induce the corporation to take the necessary steps to obtain relief." See Detroit v. Dean, 106 U. S.537.
We think upon the face of the bill in this case 'there is an
eitire absence of any compliance with the rule of practice laid
down for equity courts in such cases, and of any evidence of
an earnest and honest effort on the part' of the complainant to
induce the directors- of the gas coimpany to assert the rights.
of that corporation. On the contrary, the clear impression
left upon reading the bill is, that it is an attempt to have a
plain common law action tried in. a court of equity, and the
rights of parties decided in a court of the United States who
have no right to litigate in such a court, and that there isno
sufficient reason in the bare fact hat Mr. Steel is a stockholder in the corporation which justifies such a proceeding.
"Ifother evidence were wanting of the soundness of our in-

UNITED STATES v. DUNN.
Statement of Facts.

ferences on this subject, it is to be found in the fact that while
the decree in this casewas rendered, on the 1st day of March,
1886, a suit Was commenced by the gas company .gainst the
city of Quincy, on the same causes of action, in the Circuit
Couit of Adams County, in the State of Illinois, on the 31st
day of March of the same year. This fact was brought to the
attention of the Circuit Court of the United States at the same
term in which the decree now appealed from was rendered, by
a petition to vacate and set aside the decree, which that court
overruled. It seems very obvious that the gas company, having obtained through the instrumentality of this collusive suit
by Mr. Steel a decree settling its rights against the city of
Quincy, then brought in.its own name a suit in the state court,
which it had not dared to do until those rights were adjusted
in a court of the United States.
We are of opinion that the demurrer to the plaintift's bill
ought to have been sustainedand the bill dismissed. The
decree is, therefore, reversed, and the case remanded to the
Circuit Court with 'instructionsto that efect.

UNITED STATES v. DUNhN.
APPEAL FRO1 THE COURT OF CLAIM.
Submitted January 3, 1887. -Decided

February 7, 1887.

Service by an officer of the navy as an enlisted man in the marine corps Is
to be credited to him in calculating his longevity pay under the act of
March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 472, 473, c. 97.
The marine corps is a military body, primarily belonging to the navy, and
under control of the Naval Department, with liability to be ordered t6 service in connection with the army, and in that case under the command of
army officers.

Tns was an appeal from the Court of Claims.
stated in the opinion of the court.

The case is

