OCTOBER TERU, 1886.
Syllabus.

such a delay; not on the ground of an express and lawful
trust, because the express trust stated in the bill, and constantly avowed by the trustees during this long period, was
wholly inconsistent with any trust which would sustain his
claim; not o the ground that the express trust stated in the
bill was unlawful and void, and therefore the trustees held the
trust fund for the benefit of,all the contributors in proporti6n
to the amounts of their contributions, because that would be
an implied or resulting trust, and barred by lapse of time. In
any aspect o' the case, therefore, if it was not strictly'within
the statute of limitations, yet the plaintiff showed so little
vigilance and so great laches, that the Circuit Court rightly
held that he was not entitled to relief in equity.
It is proper td add that this decision does not. rest in any
degree upon the judgments of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania and'of this court, in the cases cited at the bar, in favor
of the trustees of the Harmony Society in suits brought
against them by other members, because each of those cases
differed in its facts, and especially in showing that the society
had written articles of association, which are not disclosed by
this bill
k4iber v. Rapp, 5 Watts, 351 (S. C.30 Am. Dec.
327); Baker v..Xiacdrieb, 19 How. 126
-DecreeaJffrmid.

ROLSTON v. M ISSOURI FUND COtVMhISSIONERS.
MISSOURI FUND COIMMISSIQNERS v. ROLSTON.
APPEALS

FROM THE

CIRCuIT

THE, WESTERN

COURT OF THE

N ED STATES FOR

DisTRiCr OF MISSoUmI.

Argued December 1, 2, 1886.-Decided March 7,1887.

-The State of Missouri havifig loaned itscredit to the Hannibal and St. Joseph
Railroad Company for 93,000,000,*upon a first lien of the road.and
property of the company, the legislature on the 20th February, 1865,
authorized that bompnany to mortgage its road and property to trustees
to-secure an issue of bonds to that amount, and further enacted that
whenever those trustees should "pay into the treasury of the state a sum

,ROLSTON v. MISSOURI FUND 'COMRS.
Statement of Facts.
of money equal in imount to all indebtedness due or owing by said coifipany to -the state, and all liabilities incurred by the state by reason of
'having issued her bonds and loaned the same to scid company as a loan
of the -credit of the state, together with ill interest that has and may at
the time when such payment shall be made have accrued and remaiin
unpaid by said company, and such fact shall have been certified to the
governor of the state by the treasurer," the governor should "make
over, assign, and convey to the. trustees aforesaid all the first liens and,
mortgages now held by the state." The act further required the state
treasurer to receive of, the trustees in payment of the e3,000,000 anv*
outstanding bonds of the state, bearing not less than six per'cent. Interest, or any ofthe unpaid coupons thereof at their par value. , Held,that
thi7s meant- that -if-payment was made in money, and not in state bonds
or coupons,.it must be of an amount equal to the face.vAlue of the bond."
is sued to the company and the acrqed interest thereon to the time of
payment, togeflher with sucl .furthet sum, if any, As -would be necessary.
to enable the state to cancel then, or withih-hreasbnable tlm."threafter ,
$3,000,000 of Its, oiptstandingliabilities,-bearhig-iuterest at tbe xateofsix
per-cent..-per-aninul,.
The act of the General Assembly of Missouri of Mtarch 26d,-1881, to provde
for the transfer to'thg sinking fund of surplus money in the treasury,
recognrzed the act of February 20,'1865, providing for the yeductioi1 of
the state indebtedness, and constituted an agreement, on the-part of the'
state, that -all moneys 'paid into-the treasury by'.the railroad company
should- be-put. Into fhb statedebt sinking fuh-,-ffch-f all optiao bo.L
bhould bq called in and paid as soon as it couldh~-wftilly be done; and
the'use of the money so paid in taking up six Ier cent. bonds of the state
operated to discharge the company from liability for the payment of
either the f'rificipal or interest of an equal amount of the bonds which
had beenjssued for its benefit.
The provision of the Constitution of the State-of Missouri which went into
effect November 39, 1865, relating to the lien held by thstate upon any
railroad, or to the relea-e of. the indebtedness of any corporation t? the
state, do not prevent the state nuthorities from complying with the requirements of the acts of February 20, 1865, and March 25, 1881, respecting the lien upon theHaunibal and St. Joseph Railroad and the debt of
that company to the-state, when the company has performed the aptS
* required by the statutes to be done uponits part.
This suit is brought to compel state officers to do what a statute of the state
requires them to do, and is not a suit against the state, but against the
officers. Louisianav. Jumel, 107 U. S. 711, distingaished.

Tms was a bill in equity to restrain the fund commissioners
of the State of Missouri from selling the :Hanhibal and St.-

Joseph Railroad. Both parties appealed.
in the opinion of the court.

The case is stated

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion 6f the Court.

-Mr.John F. Dillon and _fr. Elhu Root for Rolkton and
others. 31. Sidney Bartlett also filed a brief for same.
3fr. 12. A. De Ar2mond and .Ar. John B. HUenderson (Air.
George f &~ieldswas on their brief), fqr: the Missouri Fund
Commissioners. Air. B. G. Boone, Attorney General of Mis,
souri filed a brief for same.
M . CHIEF

JUsTIoE WAjTE

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a suit in equity brought by Rosewell G. Rolston,
Heman Dawd, and Oren Root, Jr., trustees in a mortgage
made by the Hannibal and St. Joseph Railroad Company, a
Missouri corporation, to restrain the executive'officers of Missouri from selling the mortgaged property under prior statutory mortgages in favor of the state, on the ground that the
liability for which the earlier liens were created had been
satisfied, and that they as trustees, were entitled to an assignment of those liens. The material facts are these:
The Hannibal and St. Joseph Railroad Company was incorporated by the State of Missouri under a statute for that
purpose, approved February '16, 1847, to build and operate a
railroad from Hannibal, on the Mississippi River, to St. Joseph,
on the Missomi. Stats. Missouri, 1847, 156. To expedite the
construction of the road the state passed an act, which was
approved February 22, 1851, Stats. Missouri; 1851, 265, to issue
to the company its own bonds as a loan of credit, redeemable
at the pleasure of the legislature at any time after the expiration of twenty years from the date of their issue, with interest,
payable semiannually, at the rate of six per cent. per annum,
in the city of New York, on th b first days of January and
July in each and every year. The acceptance of .these bonds
by the company was to operate as a mortgage on its road "for
securing the payment of the principal and interest of the sums
of money for -vhich such bonds shall . . . be issued and
accepted. . . ." The company also became bound to." make

provision for punctual redemption of the said bonds som issued
to them,

.

.

.

and for the punctual payment of

the interest which shall accrue thereon in such manner as tb

ROLSTON v.

ISSOURI FUND COM'RS.

Opinion of the Court.

exonerate the treasury of" the-". state from any advances of
money for that purpose." If default should be made by the
company in the payment of either the principal or the interest,
the governor was authorized to sell the road at auction, first
giving a r&tuired notice.
. Under the authority of this-statute bonds were issued by the
state to the company at different times between December 28,
1853, and- September 24, 1856, to the amount of $1,500,000,
for which the company. and its railroad became boun! in the
manner specified.
On the 10th of December, 1855, the bompany not having
then completed its road, another act was passed by the General Assembly, Stats. Missouri, 1855, !No.2, 472, authorizing a
further loan of the credit of the state, in bonds, to the amount
of $1,500,000. These were to be thirty years bonds. Section
2 of this act was as follows:
"ยง 2. The loan of the state's credit under this act shall be,
and it is hereby declared to be, upon the condition of a flist
lien or mortgage, as contained.and reserved in the act of February 22, 1851, hereinbefore recited, and the same shall in all
respects be held to be an extension of the loan of state credit,
under the said mortgage provisions, securing the state in this
as in the former loan, upon the same equal and unrestricted
basis; as to each and every bond of the state so issued, under
said acts or either of them."
Under this authority other state bonds were issued to the
company to the prescribed amount, maturing as follbws:
.
$ 500,000
......
November 10, 1886 ....
..
1,000,000
February 28, 1887 .........
On the 20th of February, 1865, the following act of the
General Assembly of Missouri was approved. Stats. Missouri,
1865, 84.
"A AcrT to Provide for Reducing the Indebtedness of the
State.
"Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
Missouri, as follows:
"SCrxo 1. The Hannibal and St. Joseph Railroad Company is hereby authorized to issue its bonds, signed by the.

OCTOBER TERM, 188.6;
Opinion of the Court.

president and countersigned by the secretary of- the. company,
in sums of one thousand dollars each, with coupdns attached,
bearing interest, payable semiannually, at the rate. of six per
cent. per annum, and having, not less than ten years to run,
and to the amount of three millions of dollars, the payment of
the same, with the accruing interest, to be secured by. a morfgage or deed of trust conveying to three trustees, to be named
therein, by and -with appropriate forms of expression, and for
the purpose of securing the payment of said bonds and inter,est, and for np other purpose, on the road of said company,
with all its franchises, rolling-stock, and appurtenances, subject, however, to all the liens and liabilities existing in favor
of the state by virtue of any law of the state at the time said
bonds may be issued and delivered.
"SicTiox 2.. Whenever the trustees provided for in the first
section of this act shall pay into the treasury of the 9tate a
sum of money equal in amount to all indebtedness due or
owing by said company to the state, and all liabilities incurred,
by the state by reason of having issued her bonds and loaned
the same to said company as a loan of the credit of the state,
together with all interest that has and may at the time when
such payment shall be made have accrued and remain unpaid
by said company, and such fact shll have been certified to
the Governor of the state by the treasurer, who is hereby
directed to make such certificate, then the Governor of the state
is hereby authorized and required to make over, assign, and
convey to the trustees aforesaid. all the first liens and mortgages now held by the state under the provisions of an act of
the legislature of the state app.roved February 22, 1851, to
secure the payment of a loan, of the credit of the state to said
railroad company in the sum of one million five hundred thousand dollars;. and also of an act of the legislature approved
December 10, 1855, to secrete the payment of a like loan of
the credit of the state in the sum of one million five hundred
thousand dollars; and such conveyance shall, by appropriate
expressions, convey to said trustees all and singular the rights,
titles, and interests held by the st.ate under the several acts of
the legislature, as aforesaid, in and to said railroad, its rolling-

ROLSTON v. MISSOURI FUND COM'RS..
Opinion of the Court.

stock, franchises, and appurtenances, to hold the same as security for the payment of the bonds of the road authorized by
the first section of this act, and the interest thereon, with full
power to sell and dispose of the sa'me, in case of the failure of
said company to meet and pay, at maturity, the interest or
principal of said bonds, or any of them, and to have and exer-

cise all the rights and powers which belong to the people of,
the State of Missouri, and which, by the provisions of the acts
of the legislature, as aforesaid, they might have exercised by
and through the Governor of the state: P'rovided,That nothing in this act shall be construed so as to render the State of
Missouri liable in any case for the payment of th bonds ov
interest thereon, authorized to be issued by the first section of
this act.
"SECTION 3. The treasurer of the state is hereby authorized
and directed to receive of the trustees aforesaid, in payment of
three millions of dollars, and interest, as provided in the second
section of this act, any of the outstanding bonds of the qtate
bearing no less than six per cen.t. interest, or of the unpaid
coupons thereof, at their par value.
"SECTIoN" 4. The true intent and meaning of this act is to
place the persons and parties who may hold the bonds of the
road authorized to be issued by the first section of this act,
through the. trustees herein provided, in the same legal position
which the people of the State of. Missouri now hold, with full
powers to act in the premises as the said state, by its Governor, might have done; and it shhll be the duty of such trustees to proceed to advertise and. sell the road with its appurtenances, as aforesaid, and in the manner provided for the Sale.
of the same bv the Governor of the state in the acts of the
legislature aforesaid, whenever they shall receive a request so
to do in writing, signed by psrsons and parties representing
not less than one third of the bonds authorized to be issued by
the first'section of this act, and which may bb still outstanding,
but only in case the said railroad company shall have made
default in the payment of the principal or interest on said bonds
when the same has become due, and all needed authority to do
the same shall be maintained, and all needed- decrees shall be

OCTOBER, TERAM,

188Q.

Opiniou of the Court.

'issued by and in any court of competent jurisdiction in this
state, either in, law or equity, and such sale, so made as herein
provided, shall be deemed and held in all respects good and
-valid in law.
"SECTION 5. The provisions of this act shall not be construed
to modify, release, exonerate, discharge, or relieve said railroad
company from any duty, liability, obligation, penalty, or forfeiture to which, under formner'laws, said company may be
liable to the people- of the State of Missouri, on any account
whatever, except from the payment of the several sums of
money as is in this act provided.
"SETION 6. This act to take effect from and after its passage."
,'When this act was passed, it is said in the brief of the Attorney General, "the bonds of the state were worth in the market
from 65 to 69 cents on'the dollar, and there were outstanding,
on January 1,1865, state aid bonds loaned to different railroad
companies to the amount of many millions of- dollars, beside
$833,000 of other state bonds, and over $5,000,000 of past due
coupons on state aid bonds loaned to the railroads." The testimony shows conclusively that no interest had been paid on
any of the aid bonds except those of this company since January 1, 1861.
On the 21sb of March, 1874, an act of the General Assembly
of Missouri, "to authorize the issue of new state bonds in
renewal of certain other bonds heretofore issued to the Hannibal and St. Joseph Railroad Company, and to maintain and
perpetuate the first lien of the state to secure the payment
thereof," was approved. Stats. Missouri, 1874, 123. Down to
this time the company had not availed itself of the privileges
of the act of February 20, 1865, .but it had promptly met and
provided for, at maturity, the interest on all its state bonds.
By this new act it was provided taat whenever the owner or
owners of any of the bonds issued to the company under the
authority of the act of February 22, 1851, "1shall present such
bond or bonds for renewal to the treasurer bf the state, and
shall satisfy such treasurer that he or they are the real and
bo-na~fde holders and owners of such bond or bonds, and that

ROLSTON v. AIISSOURI FUND COM'RS.
*0pinion of the Court.

the same have not been paid by the state, or by the said company, and that they, have not been taken up and placed in the
hands of the trustees to secure the payment of other bonds
issued by said company, as authorized by the act entitled ' An
act to provide for reducing the indebtedness of the state,'
approved February P0, 1865, the treasurer shall certify the
facts to the Governor of the state, and thd Governor shall
thereupon cause to be issued in renewal of such old bonds, and
deliver to the holder or holders thereof, ne*-bonds 'of the State
of Missouri, in lieu thereof, said bonds to be signed by the Gov-

ernor and countdrsigmed by the Secretary of State, sealed with
the seal of the state, and registered in the office of the state
auditor, and they shall be of the same denomination and tenor
of the old bonds, for which they are to be exchanged ; and
they shall have the same rate of. interest with like coupons,
and be payable in the same time and manner as said old
bonds."
Ample provirion was then made for the preservation of
the.original security, and the company was made liable for the
payment of the renewal bonds to the same extent and in the
same way it had been for the originals. The company formally
accepted the provisions of this act, and under it renewal bonds
were issuedto the amount of $1,499,000, one of the-original
bonds for $1000 having been paid. These renewal bonds mature
as follows:
July 1, 1894. ....
............
.$500,00
July 1, 1895 ...
.......
.......
203,000
January 1, 1896 .................
165,000
July 1, 1896 .......
.
.......
.
614,000
July 1, 1897 .......
............
17,000
The comipany having at all times met tLe interest on these
bonds as it matured, as well as that on the bonds issued under
the act of 1855, the board of- directors, on the 19thof January,
1881, adopted. a plan for refunding its debt, which contemplated a discharge of its obligations to the state in the way
provided for in the act of February 20, 1865. A few days
previous to this time the officers of the state had been infor-

OCTOBER TERMi 1886.

Opinion of the ,Court.

mally approaehed on the subject,' but on that day negotiations
were regularly opened by the following letter from the president of the company to the Governor of the state:
"Hon. THoS. T. CrrNDEN,
" Governor of the State of Xissouri.
"DAR Smg: It is the desire of the directors of the Hannibal
and St. Joseph Railroad Cqmpany to relieve the State of
Missouri from the burden which the state -assumed in pursuance of a wise and liberal policy to aid the construction of the
road when the company was in its infancy.
".Tbe interest upon the three millions of state aid bonds has
been regularly paid by us, including the coupons due January
1st 1881. We now wish to pay into the treasury of the state
the entire sum of principal and the accrued interest since that
date, -in fulfilment of the obligation which rests 'upon the
.company to provide for the payment of bonds. This course
appears to have been conternmlated in the .act of the Legislature of the State of Missouri, enfitled IAn act to provide for
reducing the indebtedness of the state,' approved February'
26th, 1865. So long a time has elapsed since the passage of
that abt that we have considered it our duty. to communicate
with you upon the subject, in the first instance, in 6rder that
there may be a full understanding and qoperation -in the
action of the railroad company and the officers of the state.
"'We should b.e very glad to receive any suggestion which
may occur to you affecting the convenience of the state, or
the duties of the officers of the state, depending upon our
proposed action. It is our desire to complete the transaction
as soon as possible after the period which must expire before
'a meeting of the c6mpany can be had to approve the necessary arrangements.
"I remain, with great respect, your obedient servant,
"Wm. Down, President."
After this letter was received by the Governor, Mr. Walker,
the auditor of state, went to New York, where he had an

ROLSTON v. MIISSOURI FUND" COM'RS.

399 "

Opinion of the Court.

interview with the officers of the company. At this interview
,propositions were made on both sides, but no conclusion was
reached. On the return of Mr. Walker from New York he
made a report in writing to the Board of Fund Commissioners, under date of February 24, 1881, giving an account
of what he had done 'and the suggestions he had made. ' This
report was communicated by the Governor to the General"
Assembly the next day, accompanied by a message, of which
the following is a copy:
"ExEcuTrvE OmaIcE,

February 25, 1881.
"Sm: I have the honor to lay before you a communication
from Hon. John Walker to the Board of Fund Commissioners
of Missouri: Mr. Walker, as a member of that board, recently
visited the city of New York' for the purpose of conferring
with the officers of the Hannibal and St. Joseph Railroad
Company in regard to the proposition of that company to
discharge the full amount of what'it claims is its preseit
indebtedness to the state. The, result of Mr. Walker's cQnference with those officials is fully set forth in the accomnpanying communication.
"I recommend that you adopt such legislation as will enable'
the Find Commissioners to use. or dispose of- whatever sum,
if any, may be accepted by the state from the Hannibal and
St. Joseph IRailroad Company.
"I do hot mean to say that the state will accept the sum of
$ 3,000,000 in complete satisfaction of the liability incurredby the state in aid of said company. I think the liability
extends to the maturity of the bonds;' and as the company
has heretofore met its obligations to the state promptly, andhas thereby secured the confidence of- -the people of the state,.
who were for many years in doubt as to the final result of our
complications with that road, I trust that it will be equally as
.honorable in the future, and so act as to retain the confidence.
which its past conduct has .inspired-.
"In case the whole or any part of the money due from the.
*"CrrY OF JvFEmhsoi,

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Coult.

company is accepted, its receipt ought not, to find us unprepared for its, prompt and profitable disposal.
"Very respectfully,
"THos. T. 0EITTDEN.
"ion. T. p: BAsHAw, Speaker of the House of Representatives."
Afterwafds the General Assembly passed the following act,
which was hpproved March 26, 1881. Stats. Missouri, 1881,
191:

"AN AcT to provide for the transfer to the state sinking
fund [of] any surplus money that may be in.the state treasury, not necessary to defray the current expenses of the
state government and to meet the appropriations made
by law, and to authorize the Fund Commissioners to
invest the same. in the redemption or purchase of the
bonds of the state and bonds of the United States, Hannibal and St. Joseph Railroad bonds excepted.
"Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
Missouri, as follows:
"SECTIONT
1. Whenever there is any money in the state
treasury not necessary to defray the current expenses of the
state government and to meet the appropriations made by
law, it shall be the duty of *thestate auditor, and he is hereby
authorized and required, to transfer the same to the credit of
the State Sinking Fund for the purpose of paying the state
debt, of any portion thereof, and the .ifiterest thereon as it
.becomes due.
"SEc. 2. Whenever there is sufficient money in the sinking
fund to redeem or purchase one or more of the bonds of the
State of Missouri,,such sum is hereby appropriated for such
purpose, and the Fund Commissioners shall immediately call
in for payment a like amount of the option bonds of the state,
Imown as 'five-twenty bonds.' Provided, That if there are
-no option bonds which can be called in for payment, they
may invest such money in the purchase of any of the bonds
of the state, or bonds of the United States, the Hannibal and
.St. Joseph Railroad bonds excepted."

ROLSTON v. MISSOURI FUND COM'RS.

101

Opinion of the Court.

On the 30th of April, 1881, the company executed to
Rolston, Dowd, and Roof, trustees, a mortgage such as was
contemplated by the act of February 20, 1865, and in which
the provisions of that act were recited, to secure an issue of
bonds to the amount of $ 3,000,000. -These bonds were negotiated by the trustees, and with the money realized therefrom,
and $90,000 furnished by the company, they, on the 20th of
June, 1881, paid to the treasurer of state the full face of the
bonds of the state for which the company was liable, and the
unpaid interest thereon, to fall due July 1 thereafter, the total'
amount of principal and interest being $3,090,000, and demanded from him the certificate provided for by the act of
February 20, 1865, to entitle them to an assignment from the
Governor of the liens of the state. The treasurer thereupon,
gave the tristees a receipt, of which the following is a copy:
"TREASURER'S OFFICE,

STATE OF MISSOURI,

CITy
r
op JrFFE soN, June

20, 1881.

"Received of R. G. Rolston, Heman Dowd, and Oren Root,,
Jr., trustees Hannibal & St. Joseph Railroad Company, three
million and ninety thousand dollars ,0% on account of the
statutory mortgage now held by the State of Missouri against
said railroad.
"In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand, and
affixed my seal of office the day.and year above.
"$ 3,090,000.
(Signed)
PHIL. E. CHAPPELL,
"1Tr'eas-urer."
(The State treasurer's seal of office.]

At the same time he gave to them the following certificatei
"To Tnom&s T. CiuTTENDEx,
"Governor of fissouri.
"I, Phil. E. Chappell, treasurer of the State of Missouri, do
hereby certify that R. G. Rolston, Heman Dowd, and Oren
Root, Jr., trustees, have paid into the treasury of the State of Missouri three millions, and ninety thousand dollars, ($3,090,000,),
under the act entitled 'An act to provide for reducing the
indebtedness of the state,' approved February 20, 1865, on
VOL. Cxx--26

OCTOBER TERIM,. 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

account of the statutory mortgaie the state holds .against the
Hannibal & St. Joseph R.ilroad Company.
"Given under my hand this 20th day of June, 1881.
"(Signed)
PHIL. E. CHAPPELL,
"State "Treasurer."
He refused to put the certificate in any other fbrm, although
requested t6 do so by the company:
No special provision was made by the company for the payment of the interest which fell due January 1, 1882, and on
such failure' the Governor threatened to take measures for the
enforcement of the lien which the state -held under its statutory mortgages as upon a default by the companj in the, payment of interest. Thereupon the trustees began this suit,' on
the dth of January, 1882, which was at first against the Governor alone, to have him execute the assignment provided for
by the act of 1865, and also to enjoin him from selling the
road under the statutory mortgage. On the filing of the bill
a temporary restraining order was granted by the circuit'
judge. Afterwards, on the 10th of February, 1882, the court
in session, being of opinion that the payment which had been
made did not operate as a satisfaction of the obligation of the"
company 'to the state under the act of 1865, refused to grant
a temporary injunction, but did not pass further on the rights
of the parties. .?olston v. C&rittenden, 10 Fed. Rep. 254; S C.
3 McCrary, 332. The company thereupon, to stop a sale by
the Governor, paid to the state the interest which fell due January 1, 1882, and the cause proceeded without any injunction.
Afterwards, on the 20th of iMarch, an amended and supplemental bill was filed, on leave of the court, by which Chappell,
the treasurer of state, and Walker, the auditor, were added as
parties, and the railroad company also. The Governor and
auditor, with whom was united D. H. McIntyre, were also
proceeded against as Fund Commissioners of the state; so that,
if necessary, a decree might be had for a.return of the money
which had been paid. In other respects the prayer of the bill
was not materially changed. Answers and replications were
filed and testimony taken. After hearing upon bill, answers,

ROLSTON i.

M1ISSOURI FUND 'COM'RS..

403

Opinion of the Court.

replication and proofs, a decree wag entered September 15,
1882, to the effect that the trustees were entitled under the,
act of 1865 to an assignment by the Governor of the liens of
the state upon payment, to the treasurer of state, of a sum of
i..oney, which, together with that already paid, if it had been
applied and invested within a reasonable time in accordance
with the provisions of the act of March 26, 1881, would have
indemnified the state against loss by reason of its obligation
to pay interest on the bonds to their maturity, and "that the.
complainants were and are entitled to have the said $3,000,000
paid as aforesaid to the said treasurer of the State of Missouri,
under the provisions of the aforesaid act of February 20, 1865,
applied and invested under and in .accordance with the provisions of the said act of March 26, 1881, to .the payment of
the option bonds of the State of Missouri known as 5-20 bonds
as rapidly a they were subject to call and payment, and. in
the meantime, and until such bonds became subject to call and
payment or other portions of the state debt or interest thereon
became due, to have the remaining and unapplied balance of
the said moneyp invested in bonds of the United States at'the
market rates, and when any portion of the said 5-20 bonds
became or should become subject to call and payment, or any
portion of the state debt or interest thereon became or should
be subject to redemption or payment, to have. the said moneys
applied from time to time to the redemption or payment
thereof."
The case was then referred to a master to ascertain and report "what sum, including the said $3,000,000, was necessary
to indemnify the state as aforesaid, if the same were applied
and invested as hereinbefore provided within reasonable time
in the exercise of due diligence by the officers of the state
after the 20th of June, 1881." In this decree the Governor
was enjoined from selling the road until a final judgment in
the cause.
From the report of the master it appears that after the order
of the court referring the case, the state officers used.$1,446,000
of the money that had been paid in by the companyto take up
and pay an. equal amount. of option and other bonds of the

OCTOBER TERML 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

state which might have been called in at different times before
while the money was in the treasury to the credit of the sinking fund. -The remainder of the money was then invested, as
it might have been before, in state bonds and United States
bonds, at rates which would yield an interest on the investment equal to three per cent. per annum.
The court below gave a decree finding the amount to be paid
to the state before the trustees could claim an assignment of
the prior liens, calculated on the basis of applying the payment
to taking up the bonds which had been issued to the company
as they matured, and crediting the fund w.th six per cent. interest on the amount actually used to take up other bonds than
those issued to the company at the rate of six per cent. from
the time it ought to have. been so used, and on the remainder
at the rate of three per cent. per annum, which it was agreed
was all that the investment that had been made in the purchase
of. state bonds and United States securities would produce.
The amount thus found to be due.was $4'6,049.27, and interest at the rate of three per cent. per annum from May 11,
1883.
The officers of the state claimed that the amount due should
have been ascertained by charging the company with the face
of the bonds and interest to the date of their maturity, and
crediting it only with the amount invested and the interest
thereoh at the rate of three per *cent.until. actually used to take
up the bonds for which the company was liable.
Each of the parties appealed from this declee.
What the state did under the acts of 1851 and 1855 was to
loan its credit to the railroad company. For this purpose it
issued its bonds, with coupons for semiannual interest attached,
redeemable part at the end of twenty years and part at the
end of thirty. These bonds were delivered to the company to
be disposed of- to raise mondy to enable it to expedite and
secure the completion of its railroad, and in this way the state
incurred , liability for the company not pnly to pay the principal of the bonds to the holders thereof, but also to pay the
interest semiannually, at the rate of six per cent. per annum,
on some, for at least twenty years, and on others for thirty.

ROLSTON v. MISSOURI FUND COM'RS.
Opinion of the Court.

The holder could not be required to take the principal and stop
the interest until the state had the right by the terms of the
bond to pay the principal. This was the liability of the state
to the holders of the bonds for the benefit of the company, and
the corresponding liability of the company to the state was to
provide the state with the means for the punctual payment of
the interest as it matured during the whole time the bonds had
to run, and of the principal when it fell due. The company
could no more require the state to take the principal before it
became due and stop interest thereafter, than the state could
require the bondholders to do the same thing. The liability of
the company to the state was identical with that of the state
to the bondholders, for the duty of the company was to make
such provision for the payment of both interest and principal
as would "exonerate the treasury of the state from any advances of money for that purpose."
This was the condition of the liability of the parties to and
for each other under the original statutes when that of February 20, 1865, was enacted, during the late civil war, while the
state was largely in default for interest on its debt and when
of necessity its securities were much depreciated. The avowed
purpose of the statute was, according to its title, to reduce the
indebtedness of the state, and it related only to the Hannibal
and St. Joseph Company, which was not in default for either
the interest or the principal of -the bonds it was bound to make
provision for. That company was authorized to raise money
to get up the lien on its property in favor of the state, and
pass it over to the holders of the new security upon the faith
of which the money was to be got. Such a transfer could be
obtained by paying "into the treasury of the state a sum of
money equal in amount to all indebtedness due or owing by
said company to the state, and all liabilities incurred by the
state by reason of having issued her bonds and loaned the
same to said company as a loan of the credit of the state,
together with all interest that has and may at the time when
said payment shall be'made have accrued and remain unpaid
by said company," (ยง 2,) or by delivering to the treasurer" any
of the outstanding bonds of the state bearing no less than six

406

6CTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

per cent. interest or

. . . unpaid coupons thereof at their par
value," amounting to "three millions of dollars'and interest:"
that is to say, to the amount of the bonds issued to the company by the state and the accrued interest thereon, which had
not already been paid by the company. (ยง. 3.) This, a's we
construe the statute, means that if payment is made in money
and not in state bonds or coupons, it must be of an amount
equal to the face value of the bonds issued to the company and
the accrued interest thereon to the time of payment, together
with such further sum, if any, as -ould be necessary to enable
-the state to cancel then, or within a reasonable time thereafter, three millions of dollars of its outstanding, liabilities,,
bearing interest at the rate of six per cent. per annum.
This, we think, is shown in many ways. The avowed purpose of the act was to reduce the debt of the state. This could
not be done by a simple payment by the company .to the state
of the amount of the bonds for which that company w'as liable. To reduce the debt there must be a payment by the state
to its own creditors and an actual cancellation of its own obligations. As by accepting the money the state discharged the
company from all further obligation to provide for the pay-.
ment of the principal or the interest of the bonds for which it
had become bound, it was necessary, in order to save the state
from loss in the transaction, that the payment by the company
should be.enough to enable the state to take up nd cancel an
equal amount of its other indebtedness bearing the same rate
of interest. The apparent object of the statute was to relieve
the state to 'some extent from its immediate embarrassments.
There was then existing a past due interest-bearing debt in.the
shape of unpaid coupons, amounting to more than the face
value of the bonds for which the company was liable, and if
the payment had been made t or about that time, the money
could have been used at once in discharging an equal amount
of debt then due and unpaid, Without loss to the company or
the state. Looked at in the light of the surrounding circumstances, the statute appears like a (plan by the state to get
relief to some extent from its present embarrassments by an
arrangement which would be equivalent to an issue of new

IEOiSTON v. MISSOURI 'FUND 0OM'RS.
Opinion of the Court.

bonds, payable at the times when th6se which had been lent
to the company'fell due. Apparently the -state was in no condition to borrow at favorable rates upon its own credit, and so
a scheme was devised by which the prior lien of the state
upon the railroad of this company might be used for that purpose, without any actual loss to the state and possibly with
some advantage to the company, for the company was allowed.
to make its payment in any of the bonds or past due coupons
of the state bearing six per cent. interest at their par value,
and if these could be got at a discouiit the company would be
correspondingly a gainer.
Thus it appears that if the payment had been made at or
near the time the statute was enacted, an equal amount of the
interest-bearing debt of the state, which was immediately press-,
ing for payment, could have been taken up, and a cancellation
of the obligations of the company secured. But no such payment was made, and the question now is whether, sixteen years
afterwards, when the credit of the state had been reestablished
without any help from the company, and when ali its six per
cent. interest-bearing securities were commanding a high *premium, the payment of the same amount would produce the
same effect so far as the company was concerned.
Under the statute of 1865, as has already been seen, if payment was made in money, it must be of a sum, in addition to
the face of the bonds, which would enable the state to take up
and cancel an equal amount of its other six per cent. indebtedness then outstanding. Accordingly, when the company offered
the amount of the face of the bonds only, aiid interest, the
state officers insisted upon more, and, the parties failing to
come to a satisfactory understanding on the subject, the whole
matter was referred by the Governor to the General Assembly
then in session. The statute of March 26, 1881, was the result
of this reference, and, construed in connection with the circumstances which surrounded its enactment, it maybe looked upon
as a direction to the state officers to take the money when
offered by the company and use it as fast as needed to pay the
option bonds when they were called in, which must be done at
the earliest possible moment, and in the redemption and pay-

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

ment of other state bonds as they fell due. Whatever amount
was not so used at once was to be invested and kept invested
until it should afterwards be needed for that purpose. In this
way the act of 1865 was recognized as being still in force, with
the effect we have already given it, and the use of the money'
paid into the treasury by the company in taking up the six
per cent. bonds of the state, whether option bonds ol others,
was made to operate as a discharge of the company from all
liability for the payment of either the principal or interest of
an equal amount of the bonds which had been issued for its
benefit. Tho Fund Commissioners were also required to use
the money as fast as it was needed for the payment of called
or maturing bonds.
With this statute in force the company paid and the state
officers received the money in question. There is some conflict of testimony as to what took place between Mfr. Walker,
the auditor of state, and the officers of the company, in New
York, in February, 1881, and also as to what occurred between
the company and the state officers when the payment was
made in June of the same year; but we have not deemed it
necessary to'give either of these matters any considerable
attention, because the officers of the state could only do what
was authorized by the statutes which were enacted for the
government of their conduct in the matter, and the rights of
the parties depend alone upon the legal effect of those statutes.
By the constitution of Missouri, which went into effect in
1875, Art. X, ยง 14, it is made the duty of the legislature to
levy and collect annually a tax sufficient to pay the accruing
interest on the bonded debt of the state, and to reduce the
principal thereof annually $250,000. This $250,000 is to be
paid into and made a part of the- sinking fund of the state.
The tax thus provided for has been regularly levied and collected.
From the report of the master it now appears that e1,446,000
'of the money paid in by the company was actuially used by
the Fund Commissioners on or before the 23d of August,
1882, in taking up option and other bonds of the state, and
that if this sum had been actually applied for that purpose at

ROLSTON v.

ISSOURI FUND COM'RS.

Opinion of the Court.

the times when the bonds so taken up became subject to call
or payment, and the remainder of the fund had been applied
to taking up other bonds of the state as they became due and
payable, after making due allowance for the proper use of the
$250,000 constitutional sinking fund each year, including the
year 1881, it would require a further payment by the company, on the third day'of October, 1882, of $153,646.46,. to
entitle the company to a discharge of its liability to the state
on account of the bonds, and the trustees to an assignment of
the liens of the state. It is conceded that the calculation of
the master is right. The only question is as to the correctness
of the principles on which it rests, and of this we are satisfied.
In passing the act of March 26, 1881, the state substantially
said to this company that any money it paid into the treasury
under the act of 1865 should be put into the sinking fund and
used as soon as it was needed to meet the maturing debt of
the state, and that in order to use it at the earliest possible
moment all option bonds should be called in and paid as soon
as it could be done according to law. Inasmuch as, before
the act of 1881 was passed, the state had by its constitution
made it inperative that a certain amount should be raised
each year by taxation and paid into the sinking fund to be
applied to the liquidation of the state debt, it is but right that
this should be exhausted as far as available before the money
of the company is used, but after that is exhausted the statute
made it the duty of the commissioners to use any other money
there might be in the fund to pay its bonds, whenever the
right to make such payment should be complete. The state
was not required to do this, but it did it, and the executive
officers must govern themselves accordingly. . It may be true,
that if no such provision had been made, money might have
been got by the state to take up such of its maturing bonds
as could not be met by the accumulations of the annual contributions to the sinking fund out of the tax which the constitution had provided for that purpose, at a less rate of interest
than. six per cent., and thus a saving made, but this was for
the consideration of the legislature when it passed the statute,
not for the btate officers afterwards. The state had the right

. .110 -

4CTOBER TEtRU,' 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

to pass the. law, and when passed it was binding on those
whose, duty it was to obey.
It was said; however, in argument, that if the acts of 1865,
arid 1881 are construed in this way they are invalid, because
in conflict with the following provisions of the Missouri constitution, which went into effect November 30, 1875:
Article IV., See. 50. "The General Assembly shall have no
power to release or alienate the lien held by the state upon
any railroad; or in any wise change the tenor or meaning, or
pass any act explanatory thereof; but the same shall be
enforced in accordance with the original terms -upon which it
was acq uired."
Sec. 51. "The- General Assembly shall. have no power torelease or extinguish, or authorize the releasing or' extinguishing, in whole or in part, the indebtedness, liability, or obligation of any corporation or individual, to this state, or to any
county or other npunicipal corporation therein."
The Supreme Court of Missouri did say in ,State v. Chafell,
74 Mo. 335, a suit brought by these trustees to compel the
state treasurer to give them a certificate of payment in the
form required by the act of 1865 to enable them to get from
the G6vernor an assignment of the state's liens, that if the
statutes required the acceptance of the $3,090,000 at the time
it was paid in full satisfaction of the liability of the company
to the state they ware unconstitutional and void. But here
the question is whether the same result must follow when the
statutes are construed so as to require the payment of a sum
of money which will enable the state to take up an equal
amount of its other indebtedness bearing an equal rate of
ihterest, and we have no hesitation in saying, it does not. Section 50 deals with the lien, and section 51 with the "indebtedness, liability, or obligation." The lien cannot be released or
alienated until the debt is extinguished, and the debt cannot
be released or extinguished except in the manner contemplated by the law under which it was created, or by something legally equivalent. Here there is a payment of the obli-'
gation in advance of its maturity, with a view to the use of
the money so paid by the state in taking up other debts at

ROLSTON v. 11I$SOURI. FUND' COM'RS.,

411

Opinion of the Court.

their maturity for which no other provision has been made.
This is, in our opinion, the legal equivalent of a payment of
the liability of the company in accordance with the original
terms on which it was created. By the acts under which the
payment was made the money was appropriated for use in
this particular way. In the meantime it 'was to be kept
invested until that use could be made, the company indemnifying~he state against its liability for interest in the meantime.
A statute having such an effect violates neither the letter nor
the spirit of the constitution, which was no doubt intended, as
was said by the Supreme Court of AMissouri in the case just
cited, to prevent the" frittering away" and "extinguishment"
of "the liens held by the state on railroads" without payment
in full. The payment in this case in the way which the statutes contemplate will be the complete legal equivalent of such.
a "payment in full."
It is next contended that this suit cannot be maintained
because it is in its.effect a suit against the state, which is prohibited by the Eleventh Amendment of the Constitution of
the United States, and _ouisiana v. Jmel, 10 U. S. 711, is
cited in support of this position. But this case is entirely different from that. There the effort was to compel a state officer to do what a statute prohibited him from doing. Here the
suit is to get a state officer to do what a statute requires of
him. The litigation is with the officer, not the state. The
law makes it his duty to assign the liens in question to the
trustees when they make a certain payment. The trustees
claim they have made this.payment. The officer says they
have not, and there is no controversy about.his duty if they
have. The only inquiry is, therefore,, as to the fact of a payment according to the requirements of the law. If it has been
made, the trustees are entitled to their decree. If it has not,
a decree in their favor, as the case now stands, miust be denied;
but as the parties are all before the court, and the suit is in
equity, it may be retained so as to determine what the trustees
must do in order to fulfil the law, and under what circumstances the Governor can be compelled' to execute the a ssignment which has been provided for.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

7e decree of the Circuit Court is reversed, sofar as itfixed
the amount to be paid to get an assignment qf the lien, and
the cause remanded 'with instructions to strike out the sum.
of $476,049.47, with interestfrom Mlay 11, 1883, as the
arountfound due, and insert in lieu thereof $153,646.46,
and interest at the rate.of three per cent. per annum from
October 3 1882. In all other respects the decree is affirmedi
each _party to pay its own costs in this court, the exepenses
of printing the record and thefees of the clerk for super,vision to be taxed one half to each.
M[R. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD

took no part in the decision of

this case.

GRIER v. WILT.
A-PPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNTED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE.
Submitted January24, 1886.-Decided Mdrch 7, 1887.

In view of the state of the art, claim 4 of letters-patent No. 190,368, granted
to Asa Quincy Reynolds, May 1, 1877, for an "imorovemeut in automatic
fruit-driers," namely, "4. in combination with a fruit-drier, the outer
wall of which is made up of the frames of the several trays, as explained,
a suspending device, operating substantially as described, and supporting said drier from a point in or on the lowermosgt tray thereof, for the
objects named," is not infringed by an apparatus constructed in accordance vith the description in letters-patent No. 221,056, granted to George
S. Grier, October 28, 1879, for an ,t improvement in fruit-driers."
In a suit in equity for the infringement (f letters-patefit, prior letters-patent,
though not set dp in the answer, are receivable in evidence to show the
state of the art, and to aid in the construction of the claim of the patent
sued on, though not to invalidate that claim on the ground of want of
novelty, when properly construed.

Tins was a bill in equity to prevent the infringement of
letters-patent. *Decree for a perpetual injunction, from which
the defendants appealed. The case is stated in the opinion of
thpcourt.

