OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

7e decree of the Circuit Court is reversed, sofar as itfixed
the amount to be paid to get an assignment qf the lien, and
the cause remanded 'with instructions to strike out the sum.
of $476,049.47, with interestfrom Mlay 11, 1883, as the
arountfound due, and insert in lieu thereof $153,646.46,
and interest at the rate.of three per cent. per annum from
October 3 1882. In all other respects the decree is affirmedi
each _party to pay its own costs in this court, the exepenses
of printing the record and thefees of the clerk for super,vision to be taxed one half to each.
M[R. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD

took no part in the decision of

this case.

GRIER v. WILT.
A-PPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNTED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE.
Submitted January24, 1886.-Decided Mdrch 7, 1887.

In view of the state of the art, claim 4 of letters-patent No. 190,368, granted
to Asa Quincy Reynolds, May 1, 1877, for an "imorovemeut in automatic
fruit-driers," namely, "4. in combination with a fruit-drier, the outer
wall of which is made up of the frames of the several trays, as explained,
a suspending device, operating substantially as described, and supporting said drier from a point in or on the lowermosgt tray thereof, for the
objects named," is not infringed by an apparatus constructed in accordance vith the description in letters-patent No. 221,056, granted to George
S. Grier, October 28, 1879, for an ,t improvement in fruit-driers."
In a suit in equity for the infringement (f letters-patefit, prior letters-patent,
though not set dp in the answer, are receivable in evidence to show the
state of the art, and to aid in the construction of the claim of the patent
sued on, though not to invalidate that claim on the ground of want of
novelty, when properly construed.

Tins was a bill in equity to prevent the infringement of
letters-patent. *Decree for a perpetual injunction, from which
the defendants appealed. The case is stated in the opinion of
thpcourt.

GRIER v. WILT.
Opinion of the Court.

.Th. F. 0. _1cCleary for appellant.
31k. Samuel A. Duncanr
appellee.

and

'. Leonard .

Curti, for

Mt.JusTicE BiATclwoRD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity brought in the Circuit Court of the.
United States for the District of Delaware, by John F. Wilt
against George S. Grier, for the infringement of letters-patent
No. 190,368, granted to Asa Quincy Reynolds, May 1, 1877,
for an "improvement in automatic fruit-driers.". The specification, drawings, and claims of the patent are as follows:
"Figure 1 [p. 414] is a partial section and elevation of my
improved fruit-drier, showing the same as being located over an
ordinary stove, and illustrating a shnple means of elevating the
machine. Fig. 2 [p. 415] is a similar view, .showing the drier
as located over a large furnace, as in the. most extensive dryhouses. Fig. 3 [p. 416] is a perspective view, illustrating the
improved drier in a position removed from over an ordinary
cooking-stove. Fig. 4 [p. 417] is a perspective view of a fragment of a square tray or section, -showing more plainly the
metallic lining and the sockets and pins, which may be conveniently used in this form of tray. Fig. 5 [p. 418] is a similar
view of a fragment of a round tray or section, showing also
the tin or metallic lining. Like letters of reference in all the
figures indicate corresponding parts.
"The object of my invention is to simplify the construction
of the fruit-driers in common use, both for domestic and factory
purposes, reducing the cost, increasing the efficiency, and rendering them easier to be manipulated, and at the same time
fire-proof, and capable of being enlarged or contracted at the
pleasure of the operator; to accomplish all of which it (the
invention) consists in certain details of construction and combination of parts, as will be hereinafter fully described, and then
pointed out in the claims.
"In Fig. 1, N is an ordinary stove or heating-drum, over
which is located the drier, consisting of a number of trays so
constructed as that any one will receive a similar one above

414:

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.
.Fg,1.

GRIER v. WILT.
Opinion of the Court.
xig. 2.

OCTQBER TERAI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

and also fit over a similar one below. For the lighter forms
of driers I propose to make these trays of the ordinary sieves,
or build them in the same manner, with perhaps two or more
braces beneath the foraminated bottom, to give it sufficient
.Fig. 3.

strength to support the weight of fruit. 1K is the main body
of the tray, having a surrounding hoop, L. The several trays
being of one size (save the uppermost, to be hereinafter
described), it will be observed that each one will form a section of the wall of the drier, no matter what its position, and
that this wall may be increased in height as much as desired
or found necessary.

GRIER v. V-ILT.
Opinion of the Court.

"A is a crane and B a rope or chain running over it and controlled by the windlass 0. From the cross-bars 0 the ropes or
chains G depend, and these are made to suspend the drier
through the medium of the handles H H, &c., upon each tray.
In order to prevent the drier from tipping when elevated, three
or more handles should be employed in connection with a corresponding number of chains or ropes, G.
.Fig. 4.

"At 1PI
is shown an iron ring, supported slightly above 'the
top of the stove N, and upon which the lower tray rests. The
drier is built.-up as follows: Fruit having been suitably disposed
in a tray, the hooks upon the lower ends of the ropes G are
placed under two or more of the handles 11 H, on- the lowermost tray of the drier aheady over the stove, and the whole is
elevated, by means of the windlass 0, a trifle more than the
depth of one tray. The fresh tray is then placed upon the ring
M, and those above lowered upon it, being so guided by the
hands that the hoop of the one to which the ropes are attached
will fit over the top of the one placed thereunder. In this way
the drier may be built as high as desired by the successive
introduction of trays below. The swinging crane and windlass
combined is regarded as the simplest means lilcely to be employed for elevating the drier.
"As the drying progresses and the trays are 6levated, thQ
fruit therein becomes more and more compact or shrivelled
up, leaving- a comparatively free passage for the heated air
through the body of the drier, in consequence of which very
VOL. Cxx--27

OCTOBER TERAI, 1886.
Opinion ofthe Court.

much of said air would pass off without accomplishing the
work intended, and, the partially-cured fruit occupying considerably:less space than the fresh, it is desirable that one or
more smaller-sized trays be provided for its reception. Upon
the top of the uppermost of the main series- of trays I place
a flange, F, having a circular opening, with upwardly-projecting collar, over which flange is located the tray E, made
in all respects similar to those below save as to its size. This
flange serves to contract the flue formed by the series of trays
below, and, if the partially-dried fruit be placed in the tray
ig. 5.

E, it will partially retard the flow of the air, and thus utilize
so much thereof as would otherwise be wasted in the completion of the drying process. Above the flange F any number
of small trays, E, may be placed, being matched one upon the
other in a manner.similar to those below.
"Within each tray I propose to place a metallic lining, t t,
(preferably of bright tin,) the object of which is to protect the
wood of the trays from heat and prevent moisture from penetrating the same.
"In Fig. 2 the series of trays forming the dry-house is shown
as located over a large furnace placed below the flooring Q.
This form is intended for the larger sizes of dry-houses, and
is not different in rinciple or construction from that already
described, except in that no hoops are illustrated as being
placed upon the trays. These may be connected or matched
with each other by any desirable and appropriate means.

GRIER v. WILT.
plinion of the Court.

"It may be found advantageous to construct the trays in
other forms_ than crmular, as indicated A- ig. 4,,wherein the
pin p and socket P are secured atsuitable points upon the
outside, and arranged to engage with'similar sockets and pins
upon the trays above and-below, after the manner adopted in
'molders' flasks' and the like.
"With the swinging crane the drier may be removed from.
over the stove, as shown at Fig. 3, when the ordinary cooking
operations may-be Performed and the drier returned at pleas;
ure; or, if desirable, the drier may -be-elevated above the
stove, leaving sufficient space between the two for the cocking
utensils, and thus the 'drying and cooking processes be conducted simultaneously.
"At D, Figs. I aid 2, is a~swivel comiecti6n, by means of
which the series of trays may be revolved, and thus the drying equalized throughout.
"As fast as the fruit is thoroughly cured the trays Qge
removed from the top, and may then be inserted at bottom,
after having been charged with a fresh-supply.
"In all fruit-driers it is observed that the material is liable to
contract or shrivel in such a manner as to open passages for
the heated air, in consequence of which the fruit in the trays
is unequally dried, the air passing off through these passages
without coming in contact with the surrounding fruit. This
difficulty has given rise to numerous inventions calculated to
obviate it, among the most noticeable of which are revolving
trays and revolving covers or shields for said trays. These
are found in practice expensive to build, difficult t6 handle
and move, and liable to get out of order;, and it, is a very
important feature of the present invention to do away with
all these- objections.. This I accomplish by the introduction
of a fan-wheel calculated to retard the ascending currents of
heated air, and to distribute them uniformly across the whole
area of the fruit-containing tray. In Fig. 1, the wheel W,
composed of a series of inclined blades, is pivoted between the
two bars g g, which are attached to the metallic lining t,
before .alluded to. It is sufficiently elevated above the foraminated bottom, I, as not. to -interfere with the placing of fruit

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

upon said bottom, if desired. The inclined blades cause the
wheel to be rapidly revolved by the ascending currents of air,
and these, meeting with a resistance, are compelled to pass
by the blades in a uniform manner, said blades being so cut
or separated as that they shall permit the passage of an equal
quantity of air at every point below the bottom of the tray
placednext above. Any number of these fans may be placed
in the series of trays, as is apparent from the construction
above described. They are automatically operated, not liable
to get out of repair, and they are found to be very efficient
for the purposes intended. If the currents of air be very rapid
and strong, the revolutions of the wheels are correspondipgly
rapid, and thus, under all circumstances, the currents are automatically regulated and always evenly distributed. For the
larger-sized driers the wheel W may advantageously be placed
.immediately over the funnel-mouth S, conducting the heated
air from the furnace below, as in Fig. 2. It may be pivoted
in any desirable way, and other fans may be distributed
throughout the series of trays. When the trays are made in
square form, one fan, occupying as much space therein as
possible, will be found to work satisfactorily. If the trays be
made oblong, then two fans might be introduced, the better
to occupy the necessary space. They should, of course, be
made to work upon the same level. These wheels have now
come to be denominated 'flutter-wheels,' and I desire to be
understood as not limitii'g my invention to any particular
number to be employed, to any specified location of said
wheels in the drier, or to any particular method of suspending
the saa*e, so long as they are made to revolve independently
of the trays, and to accomplish the results intended.
"Having thus fully described my invention, what I claim as
new and desire to secure by letters-patent is "11. In combination with a series of fruit-drying trays, located
one above the other, a second or supplementary series smaller
than the first, and adapted to operate as and for the purposes
explained.
"2. The plate F, adapted to cover the flue formed by the
lower series of trays, and to receive and hold the upper series,

GRIER v.. WILT.
Opinion of -the Coirt.

the whole being arranged and combined substantially as set
forth.
"3. In combination with a fruit-drying tray, a fan-wheel
operated by the ascending currents of heated air, movable
independently of said tray, and adapted to equalize the currents of air, in the manner set forth.
"4. In combination with a fruit-drier, the outer wall of which
is made up of the frames of the several trays, as explained, a
suspending device, operating substantially as described, .and
supporting said drier from a p.oint in or on'the lowermost tray
thereof, for the objects named.
"5. In combination with a fruit-drier adapted to be elevated,
in the manner described, and suspended above a stove or furnace, a suspending device substantially as shown, provided
with a swivel-connection, as and for the purposes set forth."
Infringement of the 4th claim only is alleged, the defendant's
apparatus being that described in letters-patent No. 221,056,
granted to him -October 28, 1879, for an "improvement in
fruit-driers." The description and drawings of that apparatus,
in the specification of that patent, are as follows:
"The nature of my invention consists in the construction
and arrangement of a fruit-evaporator, as will be hereinafter
more fully set forth. In order to enable others sldlled in the
art to which my invention appertains to make and us6 the
same, I will now proceed to describe its construction and operation, referring to the annexed drawings, in which Figure 1 [p.
422] is a side elevation of my improved fruit-evaporator. Fig.
2 [p.423] is a sectionalview of the same. Fig. 3 [p. 423] shows
the bottom of the drier. Fig. 4 [p. 423] is a vertical section
of the roof. Fig. 5 [p. 422] shows one of the boxes with removable trays.
"A represents a bed-frame, of suitable dimensions, provided
with four upright posts, B B, between which the boxes are
placed for forming the walls of the evaporator and holding
the trays. In the bottom frame, A, are two straight bars, C C,
crossing each other at right angles, in the centre, and dividing
the bottom of the evaporator into four equal divisions. In
each division is arranged a series of inclined slats, a a, and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.

422

Opinion of the Court.

yi~qa

T~5.

GRIER v. WILT.
Opinion of the Court.

~2.

493

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

four series of said slats are inclined outward in the four different'directions, whereby, Wvhen the evaporator is set over the
furnace, the current of hot air, as it ascends, is directed to the
sides of the machine. D D represent the boxes which go to
form the walls of the evaporator, and which are open at top
and bottom. Each box contains one or more removable trays,
b, which rest upon cleats cZ on the inside of the box. The upper
edges of the side bars of each box D are made V-shaped, while
in their under edges are made corresponding grooves, so that
the boxes will fit close together and can easily be moved back
and forth. The outer sides of these side bars of the boxes
have two or more horizontal notches, x x, at each end, into
which take pivoted pawls A A. These pawls are pivoted to
vertically-movable posts or uprights I I, which are connected
to the stationary corner-posts B D by means of rods or bars,
m, attached to each post I, and passing vertically through eyes
i in a groove on the stationary post 3. Each movable upright
I is provided with a rack-xar, n, and the two rack-bars on the
same side of the evaporator are operated by pinions y on a
horizontal shaft, 11. The two shafts 31 H, on opposite sides
of the evaporator, are operated by worms J J on a shaft, K,
at one end of the evaporator, said worms taking into gearwheels L L on the ends of the shafts 1E
H. The shaft K is
provided with hand-wheels AIM ffor turning the same.
"In operation, the first box, having its tray or trays filled
with fruit, is pushed in over the heater or furnace, and after
being there, say about ten minutes, more or less, as desired, it
is raised up by the gearing and the pawls 76, attached to the
movable uprights I, and another or second box similarly filled
with fruit pushed in under the first, and the first lowered
down on the second, and so on until twenty or more boxes
with trays have been arranged to form the evaporator. It will
be noticed that with my mechanism I lift each box independently of the others, so that I can lift a portion above, leaving
the boxes of the lower part stationary, by disengaging the
pawls below. This enables the operator to examine any one
or more of the boxes by sliding them out while those above
are suspended.

GRIER v. WILT.
Opinion of the Court

"N represents the cover with central stack 0. This cover is
put on the first box to cause a draft, and it is raised by resting
on the top or first box, so that the evaporator is complete at
all times, whether one or twenty, or more, boxes are inserted.
"In the cover t is a bottom, P,which does not extend to the
outer edges of the cover, thereby causing the vapor and
heated air to be drawn from the middle to the sides to dry
evenly; and it also aids in carrying off the fumes of the sulphur, when such is used to bleach the fruit.
"I am aware that a fruit-evapprator has been made with upright sliding bars or posts provided with gring-pawls, which
pass under the trays to support the same, but in such case the
pawls are inaccessible, and none of them can be thrown out of
the way; whereas in my case the perator can easily disengage
any one or more pawls on each post, so as to lift any one or
more boxes, or all'the boxes together, as may be desired."
The case'was brought to a hearing on pleadings and proofs,
the main issue raised by the answer, and contested, being that
of infringement. The Circuit Court entered a decree in favor
of the plaintiff, awarding a perpetual injunction and a reference as to profits and damages, in pursuance of which a final
decree was rendered against the defendant .for $1918.97, with
interest and costs, from which he has appealed.
The Circuit Court, in its' decision, (5 Fed. Rep. 450,) said:
"This patent" (the plaintiff's) "is for an imprpvement in automatic fruit-driers, and its peculiarity and novelty consist in
mechanical arrangements and devices b'y which a stack of
trays, fitting into each other, the outer edges of which constitute the outer side of the staek of trays or drying-house, are
moved upwards, and suspended by attachments to the lower
tray, in order that a fresh tray of fruit can be inserted at the
bottom, and the process repeated at pleasure, thus building up
the drying-house or stack from the bottom. It is not contended that the patentee is the inventor of the movable trays,
the outer walls of which constitute the drying-house. It is
admitted that the existence of such trays, for such purpose, is
old in the art; but the complainant contends that the patentee is the originator of an idea, which is a novel and useful

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

one, of raising the stack of trays from a point on the lowermost tray of the stack, thus making an opening for the insertion of a fresh tray containing fruit, and in this manner building the stack up from the bottom Instead of from the top;
the object and value of the patent consisting, not in
*
the use. of any special machinery for elevating the stack for
the purlo s intended, but the elevation and opening of the
said stack at the bottom, for those purposes, .byany machin. The court is,
eiy best calculated to attain that end. .
therefore, of the opinion, that any attempi by defegadant, or
any other person, to elevate the stack of trays so constructed
as aforesaid, and from a point at or -on the lowermost tray
thereof, so as t9 insert new trays at the bottom successively,
by anymechanism whatever, adapted to accomplish that purpose, and which is a mebhanical equivalent, to the means
employed by the complainant, is an infringement of his
patent.
"The two machines, as will be manifest upon reference to
the specifications and drawings in the respective patents, are
alike in principle, having a stack in each case composed of sections of trays, fitting upon and into each other, the outer wall
of which makes up and forms :the exterior of said stack or
drying-house;, and they are also alike in their purpose and
capacity of being moved upward from a point in or on the
lowermost tray, and of being suspended in that position, so as
to admit the insertion of fresh trays in succession. They are
unlike in their respective appliances and devices by which these
objects are accomplished, and also in the facility by which intermediate trays between the top and bottom can be removed.
The devices by which the trays in the complainant's patent are
elevated in the manner described, for the purposes mentioned,
are the cord and pulley passing over an upright crane, regulated
by a windlass, or wheel and axle, With its ratchet and pawls,
..

the point of suspension

.

being directly over

the centre of the stack; and from the ends of the cross-bars to
which the rope passing through the pulley is attached, depend
ropes or chains, which are attached by hooks to handles upon
the lowermost tray to be removdd, thus contributing both a

GRIER v. WILT.
Opinion of tfie Court.

lifting and suspending device.
ing the defendant's inventifn

.

.

'.

.

.

. The machine embodyexhibits the following

means for effecting the elevation of the stack of trays, and
their suspension, for the purpose of allowing new trays to be
inserted at the bottom,- to wit, four movable uprights, each
having a series of pivoted pawls, and arranged to slide in four
stationary posts, secured in a frame, in combination with a
series of boxes, or trays, having notches in their sides, whereby
the boxes may be lifted independently of each other, or. all
together. The power is applied through the medium of two
worms, situated at each end of a drum, or shaft, extending
along the side of, and -at least the width of, the stack to be
lifted. These worms engage into appropriate cog-wheels, affixed
Lo two other drums, or shafts, running at right angles to the
first-named shaft, on opposite 'sides of the stack, and extend
horizontally the length of the same. Upon each of these lastmentioned shafts are geared, at the ends of the same, smallcog-wheels, which, in turn, gear into vertical rack-bars on the
four sliding-posts of the machine. The power is applied by
means of a crank'at the end of the first-named drum or shaft.
"N ow, here is undoubtedly a- contrivance and device by
which the novel and useful invention, first patented Iin the
Reynolds patent,

. .

of elevating the stack of trays from

a point in or on the lowermost tray thereof, so as to permit the
insertion of a fresh tray at the .bottom, is accomplished. It
matters not whether this device has the capacity of lifting the
upper trays in the series, so as to open the same for inspection
or for any other purposes. So long as it accomplishes the purpose, or possesses the capacity, of moving up the whole serieS"
of trays from a point on the lowermost tray of the same, so as
to permit the introduction of a fresh tray, it is, in that respect,
an infringement of the complainant's patent; nor is this conclusion altered because of any supposed advantages gained by
the greater facility afforded by the Grier patent in opening the
stack at any point above the lowermost tray, for purposes of
inspection, or otherwise.

.

.

.

The court, upon the best

consideration it can give to this subject, has come to the conclusion that the defendant in this cause has used, in the eleva-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

tion and suspension of the stack of trays in this drier, mechanical appliances and contrivances which, while they differ
somewhat in form from those used by the complainant, are
mechanical substitutes and equivalents for the same; and in
the use of the same for the accomplishment of the same results
as those produced by the complainant's invention, the defendant has infringed upon the exclusive rights secured to the complainant."
The specification of. the plaintiffs patent states that the
invention "consists in certain details of construction and combinations of parts." The existence in a fruit-drier of movable
trays, the outer walls of which constitute the drying-house,
being old, the subject of the fourth claim is the arrangement,
in a fruit-drier with such trays, of a suspending device connected
with the drier in or on the lowermost tray, so as to raise that
tray, with all the trays above it, and allow the insertjon, underheath all, of a fresh tray, and then lower the trays above it,
and couple the suspending device again to the lowermost tray,
and so on. This is the effect or result of the mode of operation of the devices. The claim, however, is not for a process,
but is only for mechanism. The decision of the Circuit Court
seems to be based on the view, that the claim covers all methods of raising the lowermost tray with those above it, if opportunity is given to. insert a fresh tray underneath; and that,
while the appliances and devices of the plaintiff and defendant
are unlike each other, the defendant infringes because he attains
the same result, of inserting a fresh tray underneath, while the
trays before iiserted are moved up and held up by a force
imparted to the lowermost one of them. The decision describes
the invention as consisting in -"elevating the stack of trays
from a point in or on the lowermost tray thereof, so as to permit the insertion of'a fresh tray at the bottom;" and it, in
effect, regards all mechanism for causing such elevation in
such manner as a mechanical equivalent 'for the patented
mechanism, because the result is to allow a fresh fray to be
inserted underneath. And this is the view urged here by the
appellee.
The defendant introduced in evidence three United States

GRIER v. WILT.
Opinion of the Court.

patents -one to Adam Snyder, No. 48,733, July 11, 1865, for
a "fruit-drier"; one to Joseph B. Okey and Ferdinand A.
Lehr, No. 108,289, Octobr 11, 1870, for an "improvement in
fruit-driers" - and one to Joel Orlando Button, No. 155,286,
September 22, 1874, for an "improvement in frit-drierS."
Their introduction was objected. to by the plaintiff, because
they were not set up in the answer. But they were receivable
in evidence to show the state of the art, and to aid in the construction of the plaintiff's claim, though not to invalidate that
claim on the ground of want of novelty, when properly construed. Vance v. Cinz~pbell, I Black, 427, 430.; Railroad Co.
v. .Ditbois, 12 Wall. 47, 65; Brovm v. -Piper,91 U. S. 37, 41;
Eachus v. Broomall, 115 U. S. 429, 434.
The Snyder patent and the Okey and Lehr patent show,
each of them, in a fruit-drier, a series of trays, arranged one
above another, so that the frames of the trays form the wall-.
of the drier. The Button patent shows a fruit-drier, within
which is a movable frame, which carries racks that rest upon
each other. The racks are inserted through a door immediately above the frame, one by one, and each one is separately
elevated on the frame by cam levers till it is held by springcatches, which move back while a rack is being elevated, and
as soon as it passes spring out and support it, while the frame
is being lowered for another rack. Each rack goes up with
the frame, and, having been inserted at the extreme bottom,
it carries up. the racks above it, when it reaches them, and so
on until they can be successively taken out at the top. The
frames of the trays, which thus rest on each other, constitute,
in a measure and to a degree, the walls of a chamber in whichthe drying takes place.
Movable trays, the outer walls of which constituted the drying chambers, being old, and apparatus having existed. before
to raise a tray or rack, and a column of racks above it, and insert a fresh one at the bottom, and the two having been used
in connection, the fourth claim of the plaintiffs patent must
be limited to the mechanism described and shown. The Circuit Court made no reference to the Button patent.'
The plaintiff's patent describes and claims "a suspending

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

device, operating substantially as described." The defendant
has no such suspending device. The plaintiff has a crane, with
suspended ropes, and his lowermost tray, while being raised,
necessarily carries on it the weight of all the trys and fruit
above it. In the defendant's apparatus each tray can be lifted
independently of the others, and each tray is supported independently, so that the weight of the series of trays, and of the
fruit on them, need not rest entirely on the lowermost tray.
This result being different from that in the plaintiff's device,
the mechanism is different and is not an equivalent of that of
the plaintiff any more than the plaintiff's is the equivalent, of
Button's. The .fourth claim of the patent, if valid, cannot be
construed so as to cover the' defendant's apparatus.
The decree of the Circuit Court isreversed, and the case is
remanded to that court, with a direction to dismiss the bill
of complaint, with costs.

HOPT v. UTA-H.
ERROR TO THE SUPREE COURT OF THE TER

ORY OF UTAH.

Argued January 21, 1887.-Decided March 7,1887.

Evidence, or what purports te be evidence, in a criminal case, printed in a
newspaper, is "a statement in a public journal" within the meaning of
the act of Utah declaring that no person shall be disqualified as a juror
by reason of his having formed or expressed an opinion upon the matter
or cause to be submitted to him, "founded upon public rumor, statements
in public journals, or common notoriety, provided it appear to the court,
-upon his declaration under oath or otherwise, that he,can and will, notwitiqtanding such an opinion, act impartially and fairly upon the matters
submitted to him."
The judgment of the court as to the competency of the juror upon his
declaration under oath or otherwise, as above, is conclusive.
When a challenge by a defendant in a criminal action to a juror, for bias,
actual or implied, is disallowed, and the juror is thereupon peremptorily
challenged by the defendant, and excused, and an impartial and competent juror is obtained in his place, no injury is done to the defendant, if
until the jury is completed he has other peremptory clhallenges which he
can use.

