OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

BOFFINGER v. TUYES.
ERROR To THE

CIROUr

COURT OF THE

EASTERN DISTRICT

UNITED

STATES

FOR

OF LOUISIANA.

Argued January 14,17, 1887. -Decided

January 31, 1897.

The payment, after an adverse decree in the appellate court, of an agreed
sum in compromise and settlemetit of his liability, by a surety on an appeal bond to the attorney of record in the suit; fully authorized by his
principal to make the settlement and compromise, and a written receipt,
signed by the attorney as attorney of record, stating that the money is
paid "in fall satisfaction of the decree rendered against" the surety,
constitute an accord and satisfaction which can be set up in an action
against the surety on the appealtbond; and proof that the proposition
for compromise was made by defendant and accepted by plaintiff in the
original suit, with the expectation that the litigation would be termiliated, and that, notwithstanding this, other parties had taken a further
appeal to this court to which the surety was not a party, is not admissible to vary the force of the satisfaction.

THIS was an action agai.st sureties in an appeal bond.
J-udjinent for defendants, to review which plaintiffs sued olit
this writ of error. The case is stated in the opinion of the
court.
Xr&. 0. B. Sansum for plaintiffs in error.
-Mr. Richrd If Browne for defendants in error. 3tr.
Charles E. Schmidt and .Xr. CMarles B. Singleton were with
him on the brief.
M R. JusnCE MATrHEwS delivered the opinion of the court.

In a maritime cause of collision arising on the waters of
the Mississip.pi River, the owners of the steamboat Sabine
filed their libel in the District Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Louisiana, against the steamboat
Richmond, to recover damages for the loss alleged to have
been occasioned by the fault of the latter. The owners and
claimants of the Richmond, being the plaintiffs in error in this

BOFFINGER v. TUYES.

Opinion of the Court.
cause, defended against the libel filed by the owners of the
Sabine, and also filed a cross libel, alleging damdge to the
Richmond in the collisibn caused by the fault of the Sabine,
and claiming damages therefor. A decree was rendered in
-this cause-june 5, 1873, against the steamboat Sabine and her
owners, Sarah C. Shirley, R. F. Fuller, and America B. Selby,
and Nathaniel C. Selby, her husband, together with Alfred
Moulton, Charles Cavaroc, Jules-Tuyes,-and Achille Chiapella,
the four last named being sureties for the owners of the
Sabine in a bond for the sum of -$8000, conditioned to pay
any dam'ages adjudged in favorof thje owners of the Richmond
as cross libellants in the suit, which -the libellants had been
required by the court to give. The amount of 'the decree
against the owners of the Sabine, as principals, was $9750
damages, besides costs, and against each of the four named
sureties the sum of $2000, that being the amount limited in
the obligation as the several liability of each. From this
decree all the parties appealed to the- Circuit. Court of rthe
United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana. For the
purpose of perfecting the appeal, Fuller, Moulton, Cavaroc,
Tuyes, and Chiapella executed and filed an appeal bond in
the sum of $20,000, the condition of which was that if they
should prosecute their appeal to effect, and answer all damages
and costs, and satisfy whatever judgment might be rendered
against them if they failed to make their appeal good, the
obligation should be void; and on this bond J. W. Hincks and
Pierre S. Wiltz, two of the defendants in error, were sureties,
each in the sum of $5000.
The 6aus6 was heard on this
appeal in the Circuit Court on the 11th of March, 1876, when
a decree was rende'ed in the cause, dismissing the original
libel, maintaining the cross libel, and condemning the original
libellants, the owners of the steamboat Sabine, together with
their sureties in the original bond of. $8000, viz., Moulton,
Cavaroc, Tuyes, and .Chiapella, to pay to the owners of the
steamboat Richmond as damages the sum of $7392.60, with
costs. The decree of the Circuit Court as against Moulton,Cavaroc, Tuyes, and Chiapella, sureties as aforesaid, was
several as against each in the sum of $2000, that being the

OCTOBER TER,1, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

amount for which they respectively bound themselves. From
this decree of the Circuit Court the owners of the steamboat
Sabine, the original libellants, together with the Merchants'
Mutual Insurance Company, the. Mechanics' and Traders'
Insurance Company, the Factors' and Traders' Insurance
Company, the New Orleans Mutual Insurance Company, the
Sun Mutual Insurance Company, the New Orleans Insurance
Association, the Crescent Mutual Insuraice Company, and
the Commercial Insurance Company-, all which insurance coinpanies were libellants and intervenors in certain other similar
causes consolidated with that of the original libel of the
owners of the Sabine against the Richmond, joined in an
appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States from the.
several decrees rendered in the consolidated causes, including
that in which the present defendants in error were parties.
The bond given for the prosecution of that appeal to the
Supreme Court was in the sum of five hundred dollars, and
did not operate as a supersedeas. The defendants in error in
this cause were not parties to this appeal. The appeal from
the decree of the Circuit Court was heard at the October
term, 1880, of the Supreme *Court,when it was ordered and
decreed that the decree of the Circuit Court appealed from
should be an(I the sane was affirmed. Subsequently an execution was issued on the decree of the Circuit Court, running
against Moulton, Cavaroc, Tuyes, and Chiapella, for the sum
of $7292.60, with interest at'five per cent. per annum from
March 11, 1876, and costs. Motions were made on Mlay 3,
1881, on behalf of Moulton and Tuyes, d(efendants in that
execution, to quash the same on the ground that the said
decree, as against each of the said sureties, had been satisfied
and diseharged. These motions came on to be heard June 16.
1881, on consideration whereof they were allowed, and the
writ of leri facias quashed, and the marshal ordered to desist
from any further proceedings thereunder.
The plaintiffs in error thereafter, on the 7th of March, 1882,
being the owners of the steamboat Richmond or their representatives, commenced this action against the defendants in
error, as parties to the appeal bond given for the prosecution

BOFFINGER v. T1TYES.
Opinion of te

201

Court.

of the appeal frbm the original decree of the District Court to
the Circuit Court. The defendants rely upon two defences:
1st, That the matters in controversy were finally adjudged in
their favor by the Circuit Court on the motion to quash. the
execution issued against them on its decree, so as to constitute
an estoppel upon the principle of res judicata; 2d, That the
decrees of the Circuit Court against them respectively were
discharged'by payments made and accepted in full satisfaction
thereof, by way of compromise, prior to the appeal taken by
the other parties to the Supreme Court of the United States.
The cause came on to be heard before the Circuit Court on
May 29, 1883, when the parties, having duly waived the intervention of a jury, submitted the cause to the court; on .consideration whereof, the court rendered judgment in favor of
the defendants. The object of the present writ of error ijto
reverse that judgment.
It appears from the bill of exceptions taken on the trial that
the plaintiffs below, to maintain the issues on their part; put
ihas evidence in said cause the appeal bond, decree and final
judgment, and the mandate of the Supreme Court of the
United States, as the same are described and referred to in the
plaintiffs' petition, and also the amount of costs taxed in the
cause, amounting to the sum of $1593.45, and rested their case.
Thereupon the defendants, to maintain the issues on their part,
put in evidence, among other matters, the following:
1st. The decree rendered by the District Court against the
owners of the Sabine in favor of the cross libellants, the
owners of the Richmond, showing the amount decreed against
the sureties on the bond of $8000 to be the sum of $2000 each.
2d. The decree of the Circuit Court in the same cause in
the amount of $7392.60 in solido against the owners of the
steamer Sabine, and against the sureties on the original bond
for $8000 inthe sum of $2000 each.
3d. The petition and allowance of the appeal from that
decree to the Supreme Court of the United States, together
with the appeal bond for the prosecution thereof.
4th. The record of the proceedings in the Circuit Court on
the motion to quash the execution, together with the judg-

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

ment of the court allowing said motion and quashing the said
execution.
5th. Four written papers signed by Kennard, Howe & Prentiss, attorneys of record for the ow~iers of the steamer Richmond in the proceedings in admiralty, showing payments made
by the parties respectively in satisfaction of the decree of the
Circuit Court against them, which papers are as follows:
"U. S. Circuit Court.
"Sarah C. Shirley et als. v. Str Richmond.
"Rec'd, New Orlears July 3d, 1876, from Jules Tuyes, Esq.,
security on the bond given by libellants in the above cause to
respQnd to the cross libel filed by N. S. Creen et al., clahnants
of the steamer Richmond, the sum of eleven hundred and
sixty-six Tv dollars in full satisfaction of decree rendered
against him in above entitled cause, and I hereby subrogate
him to the rights of N. S. Green and owners of the st'r Richmond.
(Signed)
"KExYNARD, HowE & PIzEmTIss,
"At.t'ysfor Owners of Richmond."
"Received, New Orleans, Sept. 28th, 1876, from Home Ins.
Co., fifteen hundred dollars in full f all claims against said
company arisinig out of a certain bond given in case No. 7057,
U. S. Circuit Court (admiral appeal), entitled Sarah C. Shirley
& others v. St'r Richmond & others, and M5Ierchants' Mutual
Ins. Co. v. St'r Sabine & others (consolidated); said bond,
signed for $2000 by Alf. Moulton for the Home Co:, being
given to secure the payment of whatever judgment the Richmond and owners, cross libellants, should obtain against the
Sabine owners. The above sum is in full settlement as a cornpromise of the Home Ins. Co.'s liability.
(Signed)
"KEM",
),HowE & PRENTISS,
"Att'ys for Richtmond & Owner's."
"U. S. Circuit Court.
"Sarah 0.Shirley et als. v. St'r Richmond.
"Received, New Orleans, July 3d, 1876, from the New
Orleans Insurance Association, for account of Mr. C. Cavaroc,

203 "

BOFFINGER v. TUYES.
Opinion of the Court.

security on the bond given by libeliants in the above eause to
respond to the cross libel filed by N. S. Green & al., claimants
of the st'r Richmond, the sum of $1166.66 dollars,, in full satisfaction of decree rendered against said 0.Cavaroc in above
entitled cause, and I hereby subrogate the said New Orleans
Insurance Association to the-rights of N. S. Green and owners
of the st'r Richmond.
"$1166.66.

(Signed)

KENAaD, HowE & PPR

T'rss,

"Att'ys for Owners of Bichmond."
"U. S. Circuit Court.
"Sarah C. Shirley & als. t,.
St'r Richmond.
"Received, New Orleans, July 3d, 1876, from Mr. A. Chiapella, security on the bond given by libellants in the above
cause to respond to the cross libel filed by N. S. Green & al.,
claimants of the st'r Richmond, the sum of eleven hundred
and sixty-six - dollars, in full satisfactibn of decree rendered
against him in above entitled cause, and I hereb~y subrogate
him to the rights of N. S. Green and owners of the st'r Richmond.
(Signed)
"KE.IArCD, HowE & PExnTIss,
"Att'y~sfr Owners of iielrnwnd."
It was then proved by Johrl Kennard, a member of the
firi' of Kennard, Howe & Prentiss, that he signed the papers
by the firm name of Kennard, Howe & Prentiss, who were
the attorneys for the steamer Richmond; that he received the
sums of money in the said papers severally mentioned, and
that he executed the said papers under plenary authority fiom
the plaintiffs to make the compromise. The plaintiffs then
offered to prove by the same witness that the proctors for the
owners of the steamer Sabine opened a negotiation with him
to compromise said case, and offered to pay the sum of $5000
for a compromise of the litigation then pending between the,
parties, and threatened an appeal from the decree and judgment of the Circuit Court, which had been rendered in favor of
the owners of the steamer Richmond, unless said money should
be accepted and said compromise effected; and that for the pur-

OCTOBER TERM: 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

pose of ending said litigation he accepted said money and compromised said case; that it was expressly agreed by the-parties
to that cause that said litigation was then ended, and that no
appeal should be taken from the said decree and judgment
of the Circuit Court. To this offer and evidence the defendants objected on the ground that the papers in evidence constituted a contract in writing between the parties, and that no
parol evidence impeaching them could be received. The court
sustained the objection, and refused -to hear the evidence, to
which ruling the plaintiffs excepted.
It is not important to determine what effect, if any, should
be given to the proceedings and order of the Circuit Court on.
the motion of the defendants Tuyes and Moulton to quash the
execution issued on the decree against them. It does not
appear from the record of these proceedings on what .ground
the judgment of the courmt was placed, and in its terms it is
not final, as it merely quashes the particular writ of execution
then in the marshal's hands, and directs him to take no further
proceedings thereunder. If it had been based upon a finding
of a payment of the decree, or of an accord and satisfaction,
equivalent to payment, and had directed satisfaction of the
decree to be entered-of record, as it clearly had power to do
in such a proceeding, the judgment would have been conclusive as a defence to the bond in suit, notwithstanding the
summary character of the proceeding. United ,States v. X21Lemore, 4 How.286; PerN s v. Fourniquet,14, ,ow. 328.
But the introduction of the record of these proceedings as
evidence did not prejudice the plaintiffs in error, for the other
evidence in the cause, and which no doubt is the same on
which the Circuit Court acted in that proceeding, shows an
accord and satisfaction eqdiivalent to a payment of the decree,
and, in equity, to a satisfaction and discharge. It is so expressed in each of the papers executed at the time, which,
although they are in one sense receipts acknowledging the
payment of money, are also written evidence ol an executed
agreement by which the money was received in full payment
and settlement of the decree and of the bond given for its
payment now sued on. It is shown that the attorneys for the

BOFFINGER v. TUYES.
Opinion of the Court

owners of the Richmond, who signed those receipts, were fully
authorized to do so. The ontract in each case is with the
individual defendant for a satisfaction of the decree rendered
against him severally. The payment and receipt of the money
in pursuance of the agreement amounted to a release of errors,
so that there was a valuable consideration to sustain the contract whereby a less sum than the amount due by the decree
was received in fall payment.
The offer on the part of the plaintiffs in error to prove by
parol another condition of the contract, viz., that the other
defendants, the owners of the steamboat Sabine, and the intervenors 'and other parties, the several insurance companies who
had become parties to the appeal, should not take and perfect
an appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States, was
rightly rejected, because such parol evidence necessarily varied
and contradicted the written agreement of the parties. The
papers in evidence established a complete accord and satisfaction fully performed, in pursuance of an agreement to extinguish the liability of the defendants by reason of the original
decree, and so to satisfy the obligation 9f the bond on which
they are sued. The right of the defdndants to appeal from
the decree, and the fact that they had declared their intention
to do so, created such a dispute in respect to their liability as
made it a proper subject of compromise. A compromise was
made and fully performed on their part; they paid the money,
which was received in payment of the decree, and took no
appeal. It is not now open to the plaintiffs iM error to treat
this payment merely as a credit on account and hold the defendants to their original liability. United States v. Chih.
12 Wall. 232; Oglesby v. Attriii, 105 1U. S. 605.
The technicality difficulty, that there can be no satisfaction
and discharge of a judgment or decree, except by matter of
record, .M2itdtell v. Hawley, 4 Denio, 414; S. C. 47 Am. Dec.
260, cannot b e interposed. At common lawv actual payment
of a debt of record could not be pleaded in bar of an action
for the recovery of the debt. This has been changed by statute both in England and in this country, and no reason can
be assigned why an accord and satisfaction should not have

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Counsel for Plaintiffs in Error.

the same effect. In the present ease the action is -not on the
decree, but on the appeal bond, and for the recovery of damages arising from the breach, as to which matters inpais,such

as payment or accord and satisfaction, were always a good
plea.
Judgment affikred.
MEYERS v. BLOCK.

MEYERS v. LEVI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COU'RT OF LOUISIANA.
.Argued December 15, 16, 1886.-Decided January 31, 1887.

An injunction bond in an action in the District Court of the United States
for the District of Louisiana conditioned that the obligors "will well and
truly-pay the" obligee, "defendant in said injunction, all such damages as
he may recover against us in case it should be decided that the said writ
of injunction was wrongfully issued," which bond was made under an
order of court, "that the injunction be maintained on the complaining
creditors giving bond and security to save the parties harmless from the
effects of said injunction" is a sufficient compliance with the order of
the court, and when construed with reference to the rule prevailing in
the Federal courts (contrary to that prevailing in the state courts of
Louisiana), that without a bond and in the absence of malice no damages
can be recovered in such case, means that the obligors will pay such
damages as the obligee may recover against them in a suit on the bond
itself, whether iucurred before or after the giving of the bond.
.Bein v. Heath, 12 How. 168, distinguished

TnEsE were actions at law in a state court of Louisiana
against the obligors on an injunction bond given in an action
brought in the District Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana. Judgments for plaintiff, which were
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the state on appeal.
Defendants sued out these writs of error. The facts which
make the Federal question are stated in the opinion of the
court.

)Jfr. John -. Kennard,for plaintiffs in error. -Mr.Tillian
Wirt Howe was with him on the brief.

