OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

cording to the "value" of the goods at the time and place of
exportation. The importer stated that "value," in the foreign
coin, in his invoice and entry. The statute as to computation
applied as of the date of entry, to such entered value. Hence
it could not affect the question to show that the "cost" of the
goods abroad, computing the rouble at a lower rate, as of the
date of. exportation, was twelve cents or less per pound:
Judgment armed.

ROBERTS

v.

PH(ENIX LIFE INSURANCE
PANY.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT -OF THE
THE DISTRICT OF
Argued January 12, 13, 188. -Decided

UNITED

COM-

STATES

F011

OENTUCKY.
Janury 24, 1887.

In a suit in equity by a wife against a life insurance company and her husband, in the Circuit Court of the United States in Kentucky, to recover,
as assignee of her husband by a written assignment, the amount insured
by a policy issued by the company in favor of the husband and his
assigns, on the life of a debtor of his, for $20,000, the husband having,
after the date of such assignment and before the death of the debtor,
delivered the policy to the company, with a written assignment by him
to it, indorsed on the policy of "all right and title to the within policy,"
and expressing a consideration of $4000, and received the $4000, the
Circuit Court having dismissed the bill, this court, on appeal, affirmed the
decree, on the ground that the assignment to the wife was not satisfactorily proved to have been made or delivered before the transaction
between the husband and the company.

Xr. fffar. .1undy and -Yr. Samuel Shellabargerfor appellant.
_J'r. Augustus E. Tillon for appellee.
MR.JUSTICE

BLATCHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

On the 27th of August, 1872, the Phoenix Mutual Life Insurance Company, of Hartford, Connecticut, a Connecticut

ROBERTS v. PH(ENIX LIFE IZ1S. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

corporation, issued a policy,-No. 66,488, whereby, in consideration of the representations made to them in the application
for the policy, and the sum of $1024 to it duly paid "by A.
B. Cook, creditor," and of the annual payment of a like
amount on or before the 27th day of August in every year
during the continuance of the policy, it assured the life of
William G. Harvison, of Louisville, Kentucky, in the amount
of $20,000, for the term of his natural life, the amount of the
insurance tQ be paid, after the death of Harvison, "to the said
A. B. Cook, creditor, and his executors, administrators, or
assigns," "any indebtedness to the company on account of this
policy being first deducted therefrom." The policy was in
force at the death of Harvison, which occurred August 25,
1880. Fannie M. Cook, the wife of said A. B. Cook, both of
whom resided at Louisville, Kentucky, commenced a suit in
March, 1881, in a state court of Kentucky, against the company, to recover on the policy $17,340, with interest, being
the amount of the policy, less certain premium notes. She
based her claim to recover on a written assignment, which she
alleged had been executed by her husband, A. B. Cook, and
delivered to her, on the 19th of September, 1872, twenty-three
days after the date of the policy, and which was in these
words:
"This instrument of writing certifies that the policy No.
66,488 I have taken out on the life of Wm. G. Harvison, for
twenty thousand ($20,000) dollars in the Phcenix Mutual Life
Insurance Company, of Hartford, Connecticut, was taken out
by me for the sole benefit of my wife, Fannie M. Cook; and I
hereby de6lare that the above-mentioned life policy of 820,000,
and the money secured thereby, is given and assigned to my
said wife as separate estate, and shall continue to be the separate estate of my said wife; and whether the said Harvison
dies before or after me, my said wife shall have and receive
and huld said money as her separate estate and for her separate and sole benefit, to dispose of as she may think proper.
"Witness my hand this 19th day of September, 1872, at
A. B. CooK."
Louisville, Ky.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court

The suit was removed into the Circuit Court of the United
Sttes for the District of Kentucky, where the plaintiff filed a
bill in equity making the company and A. B. Cook defendants, and praying judgnent against the company for the
$17,340 and interest. The company answered, setting up
vNarious defences, on which issue was joined. A. B. Cook also
answered. On a hearing on proofs, the court dismissed the
bill, without delivering any opinion, oral or written. The
plaintiff appealed to this court. She has since died, and her
executrix has been substituted as plaintiff.
It appears, by the proofs, that A. B. Cook, on the 14th of
June, 1880, and before Harvison's death, received from the
company $4000, and delivered to it the policy and the following instrument, signed by him, indorsed on the policy:
"LouisviLL-E, Ky., June 14, 1880.

"I hereby sell, transfer, and assign to the Phoenix 2Mut.
Life Ins. Co. of Hartford, Conn., all right and title to the
within policy on the life of W. G. Harvison, in consideration
of the sun of ;our.thousand dollars in hand paid, b'y draft on
the said Co., and a return of the premium notes.
A. B. CooK."
Among the defences set up and urged by the defendant
were: (1) that A. B. Cookc, who was a witness for his wife,
was not a competent witness for her under the statutes-of
Kentucky; (2) that no assignment of .the policy by A. B. Cook@
to his wifo was ever in fact executed and delivered ;. (3) that
Fannie A. Cook had no insurable interest in the life of Ilarvison, and, therefore, could not become assignee of fhe policy ;
(4) that the statement in the application for the policy, that
HIar.vison was not addicted to the habitual use of spirituous
liqubrs was untrue; (5) that after the policy was-issued the
habits of Harrison became, as to the use of spirituous liquors,
so far different from his habits as to such use representel in
the application, as to make the ri~k more than ordinaril:
hazardous.
Without considering any of the other questions raised, we

UNITED STATES v. PARKER.
Opinion -of the Court.

are of opinion that, as a matter of fact, and even concedingthat A-.B. Cook was a competent witness, the assignment by
him to his w ife is not gatisfactorily proved to have been made
or delivered prior to the transaction of June 14, 1880. The
evidence on that point is conflicting, and it would not be pyofitable to discuss it in detail. As the suit cannot be maintained
without proof of the assignment,
The decree i8 affirmed.

UNITED STATES 'v. PARKER.
ERROR TO THE Cmcurr COURT OP THE ItITED STATES FOR TE
DISTRICT OF NEVADA.
Argued January 3,1837.-

Decided January 24, 1537.

A judgment entered upon motion of defendant's attorneT of record that "it
appearing that the subject-matter in this suit has been adjusted and
settled by the parties, it is therefore ordered that this cause be, and the
same is, hereby dismissed," is a judgment on the merits, final in form
and nature, and is a bar to a subsequent suit against the defendant for
the same cause of action. This rule also prevails in Nevada by statute.
Geu. Stat. Nevada, 1885, ยง 3173.
The difference between a retraxit and a non-suit pointed out.
As pleadings in Nevada are required to be construed in a sense to support
the cause of action or defence, and as facts in the record not fully set
forth in defendant's plea clearly show that the cause of action sued on
in this case is the cause of action in'the judgment pleaded in bar; Hehd:
that the defendant's plea sufficiently avers allthe facts necessary to constitute the former judgment a bar to this action.

.fMr. Solicitor General for plaintiff in error.
.Mr'. . J. illyer for defendants in error.
Stewart was with him on the brief.
MR.

TusTICE

MATTHEWS

.Mr'. T[Villam X.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action at law commenced by the United States,
on the 18th of November, 1885, against Hubbard G. Parker,
as principal, and William AM.Stewart, as surety, upon an offi-

