260"*,

OCTOBER TERhf, 1886.
Syllabus.

case of the Twin-Lick Oil Co.. v. Jiarbury, 91 U. S. 592,."the
authorities to the point of the necessity of the exercise of the
right of rescinding or avoiding a contract or transaction as
,oon as it may be reasonably done, after the party, with whom
that right is optional, is aware of the facts which gave him
that option, are numerous.

.

.

.

The more important arb

as follows: Badger v. Badger, 2 Wall. 87 ; Harwood v. 1. 1?.
Co., 17 id. 78; 2arsh,v. lVtmore, 21 id. 178; Tigers v.
Pike, 8 01. & Fin. 650; TFentworth v. Iloyd, '32 Beav. 467;
Follansbee v. Kilreth, 17 Ill. 522; .C. 65 Am. Dec. 691."
See also Gold i3Iining Co. v. National Bank, 96 U. S. 640;
Law v. Cross, 1 Black, 533.
It is said that the release was without consideration, because
M oran Brothers had the means in their hands to pay the
drafts, of the property of the defendants, but we think the
finding of facts clearly disproves that; indeed, the court found,
as a matter of fact, that the defendants were then insolvent,
and that Moran Brothers had no funds in their hands out of
which they could have paid the drafts. It is obvious, therefore, that the consideration for this release was the voluntary
payment by Moran Brothers of the existing protested drafts
of the plaintiff company out of their own means and not out
of the means Of the defendant corporation. We think this
was a sufficient consideration to support the release.
therefore, afirmed.
The judgment o the Circuit Court is,

BEARD v., NICHOLS.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCOIXT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF AIASSACHUSETTS.

.Argued December 22, 188.-Decided January 31, 1887.

Webbing made of india-rubber, wool, and cotton, and known as "wool elastic 'webbing," is subject to duty as webbing made of wool, or of'which
-wool is a component material, at fifty cents per. pound and in addition
thereto fifty per cent: ad valorem; and not as webbing composed wholly
or in part of india-rubber, it thirty-five per cent. ad valorem.

BEARD 'v. NICHOLS.
Opinion of the Court.

Tins was an action at law to recover back duties alleged to
havd been illegally exacted. Judgment for plaintiff, to review
which defendant sued out this writ of error. The case is
stated in the opinion of the court.
.X&. &oZMt General for plaintiff in error.
..ul. Charles Levi Woodkry for defendants in error.
Mm.

CIF JUSTICE WA r

delivered the opinion of the court.

The single question in this case is as to the duty payable in
the latter part of 1878 and the early part of 1879 on !' webbing
made of india-rubber, wool, and cotton," and known as "Wool
elastic webbing," as distinguished from "Union elastic webbing," made of rubber, silk, and cotton, and "Cotton elastic
webbing," made of rubber and cotton. It is used for gores
and gussets in the manufacture of Congress boots, and, without the rubber, would not be adapted to that use. In. its
manufacture it is not wrought by hand or braided by machinery, but-is woven in a loom.
In the court below, three clauses of § 2504 of the Revised
Statutes were brought under consideration, to wit:
First. Schedule L, "Wool and woollen -goods," Rev. Stat.
p. 472: "Webbings, beltings, bindings, braids, galloons, fringes,
gimps, cords, cords and tassels, dress trimmings, head-nets,
buttons, or barrel buttons, Qr buttons of other forms" for tassels
or ornaments, wrought by hand or braided by machinery,
made of wool, worsted, or mohair, or of which wool, worsted,
or mohair is a comp6nent material: fifty cents per pound, and,
in addition thereto, fifty per centum ad valorem."
Second. Schedule M, "Sundries," Rev. Stat. p. 477: "Indiarubber, articles composed of. - Braces; suspenders, webbing,
or other fabrics, composed wholly or in part of india-rubber,
not otherwise provided for thirty-five per centum ad valorem."
zthird. Schedule L, "Wool and woollen goods," Rev. Stat..
p. 471: "Woollen cloths, woollen shawls, and all manufactures
of wool of every, description, made wholly or in part of wool,

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

not herein otherwise provided for: fifty cents per pound, and,
in addition thereto, thirty-five per centum ad valorem"
In this court, however, it was conceded by the Solicitor
General, in his argument for the collector, that, as the third
clause does not specifically provide for webbing, and both the
others do, that clause would not be relied on here. The precise question to be determined is, therefore, whether these
goods are dutiable as "webbing . . . composed wholly or
in part of india-rtbber," at tbirty-five per cent. ad valorem, or
as "webbing .
made of wool,
or of which wool
is a component material," at fifty cents per pound,

and, in addition thereto, fifty per cent. ad valorem. The collector exacted the larger duty, and this suit was brought to
recover back the difference between that and the smaller one.
The court below gave judgment against the collector, and, to
reverse that judgment, this writ of error was sued out.
In the tariff act of August 30, 1842, c. 210, § 5, subdivision
Tenth, 5 Stat. 555, was this provision: "On india-rubber oilcloth, webbing, shoes, braces, or suspenders, or other fabrics
or maufactured articles composed wholly or in part of indiarubber, thirty per centuin ad valorem." In the act of July 30,
1846, c. 74, § 11, Schedule C, 9 Stat. 44, this was the language:
" Braces, suspenders, webbing, or -other fabrics, composed
wholly or in part of india-rubber, not otherwise provided for."
The same provision, was made in the act of March 2, 1861,
c. 68, § 22, 12 Stat. 191, and in the act of July 14,1862, c. 163,
§ 13, 12 Stat. 556, which increased the duties on these articles
five per centumn ad valorem. In the last of these acts, § 8,
p. 552, was the following provision: "On manufactures of
india-rubber and silk, or of inia-rubber and silk and other
materials, fifty per centum ad valorem." These provisions of
the acts of 1861 and 1862 were reenacted in substantially the
same language as part of the Revised Statutes. That in relation to manufactures of india-rubber and silk, and india-rubber
and silk and other materials, is found in § 2504, immediately
preceding the second of the clauses above referred to.
In 1873, while the acts of 1861 and i162 were in force, and
before the enactment of the Revised Statutes, Davies & Co.

BEARD v. NICHOLS.
Oionion of the Court.

imported into New York '.suspender

or braces manufactured

of rubber, cotton, and silk," and the collector exacted a duty
of fifty per centum ad valorem as upon a manufacture of indiarubber and silk and other materials; but this court held in
Arthur v. Davies, 96 U. S. 135, that they were only dutiable
at the rate of thirty-five per centum ad valorem, as suspenders
or braces composed wholly or in part of india-rubber, and that
they were not "otherwise frovided for," as manufactures of
india-rubber and silk and other materials, because for thirty
years before the importation in that case, "and in four different statutes, braces and suspenders, composed wholly or in part
of india-rubber, had been a subject of duty eo nomine." During, the same year Faxon, Elms & Co. imported into Boston
from Liverpool webbing which was a manufacture of indiarubber, silk, and cotton, known as "Union Gusset," "Union
Web," or "Union Elastic Web," and used in the manufacture
of the gores or gussets of Congress boots. In this case, also,
the collector exacted a duty of fifty per centum ad valorem,
under § 8 of the act of 1862, as on manufactures of india-rubber
and silk and other mateials, but this court held at its October
term, 1878, in Faxeon v. Russel, not reported, on the authority
of Arthur v. Davies, that the goods were only dutiable as webbing composed wholly or in part of india-rubber.
These cases, with which we are entirely satisfied, are conclusive upon the questions here involved. Ever since 1842 "webbing" composed wholly or in part of indiarrubber has been a
subject of duty eo -nomin, and it-is no more otherwise provided
for, as .webbing composed wholly or in part of wool than it
would be as a mapufacture of india-rubber and silkc, or of
india-rubber and silk and other materials, if silk had been one
of its component parts.
27ie judgment is aftrmed.

