OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

device, operating substantially as described." The defendant
has no such suspending device. The plaintiff has a crane, with
suspended ropes, and his lowermost tray, while being raised,
necessarily carries on it the weight of all the trys and fruit
above it. In the defendant's apparatus each tray can be lifted
independently of the others, and each tray is supported independently, so that the weight of the series of trays, and of the
fruit on them, need not rest entirely on the lowermost tray.
This result being different from that in the plaintiff's device,
the mechanism is different and is not an equivalent of that of
the plaintiff any more than the plaintiff's is the equivalent, of
Button's. The .fourth claim of the patent, if valid, cannot be
construed so as to cover the' defendant's apparatus.
The decree of the Circuit Court isreversed, and the case is
remanded to that court, with a direction to dismiss the bill
of complaint, with costs.

HOPT v. UTA-H.
ERROR TO THE SUPREE COURT OF THE TER

ORY OF UTAH.

Argued January 21, 1887.-Decided March 7,1887.

Evidence, or what purports te be evidence, in a criminal case, printed in a
newspaper, is "a statement in a public journal" within the meaning of
the act of Utah declaring that no person shall be disqualified as a juror
by reason of his having formed or expressed an opinion upon the matter
or cause to be submitted to him, "founded upon public rumor, statements
in public journals, or common notoriety, provided it appear to the court,
-upon his declaration under oath or otherwise, that he,can and will, notwitiqtanding such an opinion, act impartially and fairly upon the matters
submitted to him."
The judgment of the court as to the competency of the juror upon his
declaration under oath or otherwise, as above, is conclusive.
When a challenge by a defendant in a criminal action to a juror, for bias,
actual or implied, is disallowed, and the juror is thereupon peremptorily
challenged by the defendant, and excused, and an impartial and competent juror is obtained in his place, no injury is done to the defendant, if
until the jury is completed he has other peremptory clhallenges which he
can use.

HOPT v. UTAH.
Opinion of the Court.
The opinion of a physician, after making a post-mortem xaminatlon of the
deceased, who came to his death by a blow inflicted upon his head, as to
the direction from which the blow was delivered, is admissiblb in
evidence.
If the evidence produced in a criminal action be of such a convincing character that the jurors would unhesitatingly be governed by it in'the
weighty and important matters of life, they may be said to have no reasonable doubt respecting the guilt or innocence of the accused, notwithstanding the uncertainty which attends all human evidence. Therefore,
a charge to the jury that if, after an impartial comparison and consideration of all the evidence, they can truthfully say that they have an abiding
conviction of the defendant's guilt, such as they would be willing to act
upon in the more weighty and important 'matters relating to their own
affairs, they have no reasonable doubt, is not erroneous.
An allusion, in the final argument to the jury by the counsel for the prosecution, to the case as -having been many times brought before the tribunals, is not a ground for reversing a judgment under the statute of
Utah, which declares that on a new trial the "former verdict cannot be
used or referred to either in evidence or argument."

Tins writ of error was sued out by the defendant below,
who was indicted, tried and convicted of murder, to review
the proceedings and judgment there. The case is stated in
the opinion of the court.
-Y. Benjamin Sheeks and -r. P. L. Wfilieam8 for plaintiff
in error.
.Xr. Assistant Attorney General Xawury for defendant in
error.
Ym.

JusTiocE

FiLD

delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant below, the plaintiff in error here, Frederick
ilopt, was indicted in the District Court of the Third Judicial
District of Utah, in December, 1880, for the murder of John
F. Turner on the 3d of the preceding July. He was four
times convicted in that court, upon this indictment, of murder in the first degTee. The judgment of 'death pronounced
against him on each previous conviction was reversed by this
court. The decisions are found in 104 U. S. 631; 110 U. S.
574; and 114 U. S. 488. The .last conviction took place in
September, 1885; judgment was passed in October following;

,OCTOBER TERM,

188u.

Opinion of the Court.

and on appeal to the Supreme Court of the territory it was
raffirmed in January, 1886, except as to the time of its execution ; that was to be fixed by the -DistrictCourt, to which the
cause was remanded for that purpose. To secure a reversal of
this judgment the case is brought before us on a, writ of
error.
The errors assigned are: Ist, the ruling of the trial court
upon challenges to several jurors; 2d, the admission in evidence of the opinion of a witness as to the direction from
which the blow was delivered which caused the death of the
deceased; 3d, the instruction to the jury as to the meaning
of the words "reasonable doubt;" and, 4th, the reference on
the argument by the district attorney to previous trials of the
case.
1st. Four persons summoned as jurors were examined on
their voir dire, and challenged by the defendant, one for
actual bias, under § 241 of the"act of the territory regulating
proceedings in criminal cases, passed in 1878; and the other
three for both actual and implied bias. Actual bias is defined
by that act to be "the existence of. a state of mind, on the
part of a juror, which leads to a just inference in reference to
the case that he will not act with entire impartiality."
The juror Young, challenged as having that state of mind,
that is, for actual bias, testified that he had heard of the case,
but had never talked with any one who pretended .to know
about it; that he had impressions as to the guilt or innocence
of the defendant, but could not say that he had ever formed
any opinion on the subject, and did not remember that he had
ever expressed any; that possibly his impressions were strong
enough to create, from sympathy, some bias or prejudice, but
he thought he could sit on the jury and be guided by the evidence, and try the case impartially as if he had- never heard
of it before. Upon this testimony, the court was of opinion
that he was a competent juror; and accordingly the challenge
was disallowed. In this ruling we see no error. The juror
was then peremptorily challenged by the defendant, and was
excused.'

That act also provides, in § 242, that a challenge for implied

HOPT v. UTAH.
Opinion-of the Court.

bias may be taken for all or any of the following causes, and
for no other:
1. Consanguinity or affinity within the fourth, degree to
the person alleged to be injured by.the offence charged, or on
whose complaint the prosecution was instituted, or to .the
defendant;
2. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward, attorney.
and client, master and servant, or landlord and tenant, or
bing a member of the family pf the defendant, or of the person alleged to be injured by the offence charged, or on whose
complaint the prosecution was instituted, or in his employment on wages;
3. Being the 'party adverse to the defendant in a civilaction, or having complaint against or being accused by him'
in a criminal prosecution;
4. Having served on the grand jury which found the indictment, or on a coroner's jury which inquired into the death of
a person whose death is the, subject of the indictment;
5. Having served on a trial jury which has tried another
person for the offence charged in the indictment;
6. Having been one of the jury formerly sworn to tiy the
same indictment, and whose verdict was set aside, or which
was discharged without a verdict, after the case was submitted
to it;

7. Having served as a juror in a civil action brought against
the defendant for the act charged as an offence;
S. Having formed or expressed an unqualified opinion or
belief that the prisoner is guilty or not guilty of the offence
charged;
9. If the offence cha-ged be punishable with death, the
entertaining of such conscientious opinions as would preclude
his finding the defendant guilty; -in which case he -must
neither be permitted nor compelled to serve as a juror.
The act provides, in § 244, that, "in a challenge for implied
bias, one or more of the causes stated in § 242 must be alleged."
(Laws of 1878-, pp. 111, 112.)
Another act of the territory, passed in March, 1884, declares
that "no person shall be disqualified as a juror by reason of
voL. cxx-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

having formed or expressed an opinion upon the matter or
cause to be submitted to such jury [juror], founded upon
public rumor, statements in public journals, or common notoriety; provided it appear to the court, upon his declaration,
under oath or otherwise, that he can'and will, notwithstanding such an opinion, act impartially and fairly upon the
matters submitted to him. The challenge may be,oral, but
must be entered in the minutes of the court or of the phonographic reporter."' (Laws 1884:,.p. i24.)
The juror Gabott, challenged for both actiil and implied
bias, testified on his direct examination, in'substance, as fol-

lows: that.he had heard of the case through the newspapers,
and read'what was represented *to be, the evidence; that he
had talked about it since' that time; that he did not think he
had ever expressed an opinion on the case, but that he had
formed a qualified .opinion; that is, if the evidence were true,
or the reports were true; that he had an opinion touching the
guilt or innocence of the accused which it would take evidence
to 'remove; but that he thought he could go into the jurybox and sit as if he had never heard of the case, and that
what he had heard would not make the, least difference. * On
his cross-examination, he testified that he knew nothing about
the case, except what he had read from time to time in the
public press; that, if what he had heard turned out to be the
facts in the case, he had an opinibn, otherwise not; that is,
his 6pinion was a qualified one, and that, according to his
present state of mind, he could sit on the jury and determine
the case without reference to anything he had heard; that he
was not conscious of any bias or prejudice that might prevent
him from dealing with the defendant impartially; and that
he thought he could try the case according to the law and the
evidence given in court. Oi his reexamination he further
stated that he would be guided by the evidence altogether,
without being influenced by any opinion he might then have,
or may have previously formed.
The court held that the juror was competent. By the express terms of the statute of 1884 he could not be disqualified
as a juror for an opinion formed or expressed upon statements

HOPT v. UTAH.
Opinion of the Court.

in public journals, if it appear to the court, upon his declaration under oath or otherwise, that he could and would, notwithstanding such an opinion, act impartially and fairly upon
the matters submittcd to him. We think that evidence, or
what purports to be evidence, printed in a newspaper is a
"statement in a public journal" within the meaning of the
statute; and that the judgment of the court upon the competency of the juror in such cases is conclusive.
The juror Winchester, who was also challenged for actual
and implied bias, testified that he had heard of the .case
through the papers; that he had heard it talked of some years
ago; that he believed he had heard what purported to be the
evidence as given in the newspapers on previous trials, and
believed he had formed and expressed an opinion as to the
guilt or innocence of the accused, and though it was an unqualified opinion, it was not a fixed or settled one; that at the
time he read the papers, he had formed such an opinion as
would have required testimony to remove it from his mind,
and if his memory was refreshed as to the testimony there
would probably be a renewal of the opinion he had formed;
that he had not talked with any one, and could hardly tell the
circumstances now; that he believed that his mind was free
from any impression, and that he could sit on the jury and try
the case precisely'as if he-had never heard of it or read of
any of the facts. To inquiries of the court, the juror repeated,
in substance, what he had previously said, that he thought he
could sit in the jury-box and try the case according to the
evidence without reference to any opinion he may then or
theretofore have formed; that he could try defendant impartially according to the evidence, and that he would do so.
The court thereupon held that he was competent, and the
challenge was disallowed. This ruling disposed of the challenge, and the judgment of the court, for the reasons stated,
was conclusive under the statute of farch, 1884. The defendant thereupon peremptorily challenged the juror, and he was
excused.
The fourth juror, Harker, who was challenged for actual
and implied bias by the defendant, was examined on his voir

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

dirne, but after hearing his testimony the challenge was disallowed; and thereupon the district attorney peremptorily
challenged him, and he was excused.
The challenges for implied bias fell, as there was no specification of the orounds for such challenges, as required by § 242
of the act of 1878.
In capital cases in Utah, the government and the accused
are each allowed fifteen peremptory challenges. (Laws of
Utah of 1884, c. 48, § 24.) Notwithstanding the peremptory
challenges made by the defendant to two of the jurors, he
had several such challenges which had not been used when
the jury was completed. If, therefore, the ruling of the court
in disallowing the challenges to the two for bias, actual or
implied' was erroneous, no injury to the defendant followed.
Those jurors were not on the jury, and impartial and competent jurors were obtained in their place, to whom no objection was made. _fayes v. issouri, ante, 68; Xignmo v. The
State, 16 Ohio St. 221 ; Erwin v. The State, 29 Ohio St. 186, 190.
It is therefore only the ruling on the challenge to the juror
Gabott which can properly be assigned as error here; and, for
the reasons stated, that ruling was in our judgment correct.
2d. The deceased came to his deaih from a blow inflicted
upon the left side of his head, which crushed his skull. A postmortem examination of the body-was made by a physician,
who was allowed, against the objection of the defendant, to
give his opinion as to the direction from which the blow was
delivered, after he had stated that his 6xamination of the body
had enabled him to form an intelligent opinion upon that
point. The ground of the objection was that the direction in
which the blow was delivered was not a matter for the opinion of an expert, but one which should be left to the jury.
The court overruled the objection, and the defendant excepted.
The witness stated, as his opinion, that the blow was delivered
from behind and above the head of the person struck, and from
the left toward the right. This testimony was supposed to
have some bearing upon the case when considered in connection with the fact that the accused was a left-handed man.
On the following morning, counsel on behalf of the prosecu-

HOPT v. UTAH.
Opinion of the Court.

tion moved that this evidence should be stricken from the record, and the jury be instructed to disregard it. The counspei
for the defendant did not object to that, but Ece wished the
record to show that the application was made on the following morning. The court thereupon instructed the jury that
the evidence was stricken out, and that they were not to consider it at all. The defendant now contends that it was error
to admit the evidence, and that the error was not cured by
striking it out and the instruction to th jury. To this the
answer is, 1st, that the evidence was admissible; and; 2d, that,
if not admissible, the error was pured by the evidence being
stricken out with the accompanying instruction.
. The opinions of witnesses are constantly taken as to the
result of their observations on a great variety of subjects. All
that is required in such cases is that the witnesses should be
able to properly make the observations, the result of which
they give; and the confidence bestowed on their conclusions
will depend upon the extent and completeness of their examination, and the ability with which it is made. The court
below, after observing that every person is competent to express an opinion on a question of identity, as applied to persons in his family or to handwriting, and to give his judgment
in regard to the size, color, and weight of objects, and to make
an estimate as to time and distance, cited a great number of
cases illustrative of this doctrine. We quote a passage containing them. "He may state his opinion," says the court,
"with regard to sounds, their character, from what they proceed, and the direction from which they seem to come. State
v.
nh'orn, 46 . T. 497; Commonwealth v. Pope, 103 Mass.
440; Commonwelth v. Dorsey, 103 Mfass. 412. Non-experts
have been allowed to testify whether certain haixs were
human, Comnzwnwealth v. Dorsey, 103 Mfass. 412; that one
person appeared to be sincerely attached to another, Je-ee v.
I elson, 4 Cowen, 355 [S. C. 15 Am. Dec. 384]; as to whether
another was intoxicated, People v. Eastwood, 14 N. Y. 562;
as to whether a person's conduct was insulting, Raisler v.
.'pringer,38 Ala. 703 [8. C. 82 Am. Dec. 736]; as to resemblance of foot-tracks, Hotchkiss v. Germania,Ins. Co., 5

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
-Opinion of the Court.

Hun,.90 ;. as to value of property, when competent, Brown v.
H~oburger, 52 Barb. 15; Bank v. 3fudgett, 44 N.. Y. 614;
Bedell v. Long Island Railroad,44 N. Y. 367; Sw,,n, v.
.Afiddlesex Co., 101 Mass. 173; Synder v. Western Union
Tel. Co., 25 Wis. 60; Brackett v. Edgerton, 14 Minn. 174; as
to market value of cattle derived from newspapers, Cleveland,
&c.,
Railroadv. Perkins,17 Mich. 296; -vhether there ws hard
pan in an excavation, Vurrierv. Boston & Afaine Railroad,34
N. H. 498; whether one acted as if she felt sad, Culver v.
Dwigd, 6 Gray, 444; as to rate of speed of a railroad train on
a certain occasion, Detroit, &c., Railroadv. -on Steinburg, 17
Mich. 99 ; as to whether noisome odors render a dwelling uncomfortable, Kearney v. Farrell,28 Conn. 317 [S. C. 73 Ain.
Dec. 677] ; 'vhether the witness noticed any change in the intelligence or understanding or any want of coherence in the
remark of another, Barker v. Comims, 110 Mass. 477; -Taek
v. Hunt, 116 M ass. 237."
Upon the same principle, the testimony of the physician as
to the direction from which the blow was delivered was admis-

sible.

It was a conclusion of fact which he would naturally
-

draw from the examination of the wound. It was not expert.
testimony in'the strict sense of the term, but a statement of a
conclusion of fact, such as men who use their senses constantly
draw from what they see and hear in the daily concerns of life.
Conn. Zife
sn. Co. v. Lathrop, 111 U. S. 612, 620. But,
independently of this consideration, as to the admissibility
of the evidence, if it was erroneously' admitted, its subsequent
withdrawal from the case, with the accompanying instruction,
cured the error. It is true, in some instances, there may be
such strong impre:9sions made upon the minds of a jury by illegal and impqroper testimony, that its subsequent withdrawal
will not remove the effect caused by its admission; and in that
case the original objection may avail on appeal or writ of error.
Bit such instances are exceptional. The trial of a case is not
to be suspended, the jury discharged, a new one summohed,
and the evidence retaken, when an terror in the admission of
testimony can be corrected by its withdrawal with proper instrucdions from the court to disregard it. We think the present

HOPT v. UTAH.
OpAnion of the Court.

case one of that kind. State v. .May,4 Devereux, Law, 328, 330;
Goodnow v. Hill, 125 Mass. 587, 589; Smith v. T~Hitman, 6
Allen, 562; H1awes v. Gustin, 2 Allen; 402, 406; Dillin v. T]he
Peope, 8 Mich. 351, 369; 8Sjiecht v. Hfoward 16 Wall. 564.
3d. The instruction to the jury, which is the subject of
exception, relates to the meaning of the words "reasonable
doubt," which should control them in their decision. The following is that portion which bears upon this subject:
"The court charges you that the law presumes the defendant innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.
That if you can reconcile the evidence before you upon any
reasonable hypothesis consistent with the defendant's- innocence, you should do so, and in that case find him not guilty.
You are further instructed tbat you cannot 'findthe defendant
guilty unless from all the evidence you believe him guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.
"The court further charges you that a reasonable doubt is a
doubt based on reason, and which is reasonable in view of all*
the evidence. And if, after an impatial comparison and consideration of all the evidence, you can candidly say that you
are not satisfied of the defendant's guilt, you have a reasonable doubt; but if, after such impartial comparison and consideration of all the evidence, you can truthfully say that you
have an abidipg conviction of the defendant's guilt, such as
you would be willing to act upon in the more weighty and
impoitant matters relating to your ovn affairs, you have no
reasonable doubt."
-The word "abiding" here has the signification of settled and
fixed, a conviction -vhich may follow a careful examination
and comparison of the whole evidence. It is difficult to conceive what imount of conviction would leave the mind of a
juror free from a reasonable doubt, if it be not one which is so
settled and fixed as to control his action in the more weighty
and important matters relating to his own affairs. Out of the
domain of the exabt sciences and actual observation there is
no absolute certainty. The.guilt of the accused, in the majority
of criminal cases, must necessarily be deduced from a variety
of circumstances leading to proof of the fact. Persons of

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

speculative minds may in almost every such case suggest possibilities of the truth being different from that established by
the most convincing proof. The jurors are not to be led away
by speculative notions as to such possibilities.
In Cormnonwealth v. Webster, 5 Cush. (Hass.) 295, 320, [S. C'.
52 Am. Dec. '711,] the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts
stated in its charge that it was not sufficient to establish a probability, though a strong one arising from the doctrine of
chances, that the fact charged against the prisoner was more
likely to be true thafi the contrary, and said: "The evidence
must establish the truth of the fact to a reasonable and moral
certainty; a certainty that convinces and -directs the understanding, and satisfies the reason and judgment of those who
are bound to act conscientiously upon it. This we take to be
proof beyond reasonable doubt."
The difficulty with this instruction is, that the words "to a
reasonable and moral certainty" add nothing to the words
"beyond a reasonable doubt;" one may require explanation
as much as the other. In Commonwealth v. Costey, 118 Hass.
1, the same court. held that, as applied to a judicial trial for
crime, the two phrases were synonymous and equivalent, and
that each signified such proof as would satisfy the judgment
and consciences of the jury that the crime charged had been
committed by the defendant, and so satisfy them as to leave
no other reasonable conclusion possible. It was there also
said, that an instruction to the jury that they should be satisfied of the defendant's guilt beyond- a reasonable doubt, had
often been held sufficient, without further explanation. In
many cases it may undoubtedly be sufficient. It is shhaple, and
as a rule to guide the jury is as intelligible to them generally
as any which could be stated, with respect to the conviction
they should have of the defendant's guilt to justify a verdict
against him. But in many instances, especially where the case
is -at all complicated, some explanation or illustration of the
rule may aid in its full and just comprehension. As a matter
of fact, it has b~en the general practice in this country of
courts holding criminal trials to give such explanation or illustration. The rule may be, and often is, rendered obscure by

HOPT v. UTAH.
Opinion of the Court.

attempts at definition, which serve to create doubts instead of
removing them. But an illustration 'like the one given in this
case, by referenc6 to the conviction upon which the jurors
would act in the weighty and important concerns of life, would
be likely to aid them to a right conclusion, when an attempted
definition might fail. If the evidence produced be of such a
convincing character that they would unhesitatingly be governed by it in such weighty and important matters, they may
be said to have no reasonable doubt respecting the guilt or
innocence of the accused, notwithstanding the uncertainty that
attends all human evidence. The instruction in the case before us is as just a guide to practical men as can well be given;
and if it were open to criticism it could not have misled the
jury, when considered in connection with the further charge,
that if they could reconcile the evidence with any reasonable
hypothesis consistent with the defendant's innocence they
should do so, and in. that case find him not guilty. The evidence must satisfy the judgment of the jurors as to the guilt
of the defendant, so as to exclude any other reasonable conclusion.
The instruction is not materially different from that given
by Lord Tenterden, as repeated and adopted by Chief Baron
Pollock, in Rex v. Xfuller. "I have heard,"- said the Chief
Baron, addressing the jury, "the late Lord Tenterden frequently
lay down a rule which I will pronounce to you in his own language: I Itis not necessary that you should have a certainty
which does not belong to any human transaction whatever.
It- is only necessary that you should have that certainty with
which you should transact your own most important concerns
in life.' No doubt the question before you to-day -involving
as it does the life of the prisoner at the bar- must be deemed
to be of the highest importance; but you are only required to
have that degree of certainty with which you decide upon and
conclude your own most important transactions in life. To
require more would be really to prevent the repression of crime,
which it is the object of criminal courts to effect." 4 Fost. &
Fin., 388-89, note. We are satisfied that the defcndant was in
no way prejudiced by the instructions of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

4th. On the final argument to the jury, the counsel for the
prosecution alluded to the case as the most remarkable one
ever tried in the territory, and to "the many times it had been
brought before the tribunals." To this latter remark exception
was taken. Thereupon the remark was withdrawn" by the
counsel, and the court said to the jury that the case was to be
tried on the evidence, and that they were not to consider it
with respect to any previous trial, but only on the evidence
given on this trial. The counsel for the defendant now cbntends that this allusion was in conltravention of that section of
the act of the territory regulating proceedings in criminal
cases, which declares that "the granting of a new trial places
the parties in the same position as if no trial had been had,'
and that "all the testimony must be produced anew, and the
former verdict cannot be used or referred to either in evidence
or'in argument." (Laws of Utah of 1878, p. 126, § 311.) -The
object of this law was to prevent the accused from being prejudiced by reference to any former conviction on the same indictment. There Was, in fact, no reference to any verdict on a
previous trial, but merely a mention of the times the case had
been before the courts, so as to magnify its importance. If
allusions to previous trials, such as were here *made,were to
vitiate a subsequent trial, a new element of uncertainty would
be introduced into the administration of justice in criminal
cases. We do not see that the defendant was in any way
prejudiced by such reference. The fact that previous trials
had proved unavailing may perhaps have induced greater care
and caution on the part of the jury in the consideration of the
case.
The judgment of the court below is
fflrnwd-

_______

PLU=MMER v. SARGENT.
APPEAL

FROM' THE

cMCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTICT OF CONNECTICUT.

Argued January 10,11, 1887.-Delided March 7,1887.
The reissued letters-patent No. 2355, dated September 11, 1866, granted to
the Tucker'Manufacturing Company as assignee of Hiram Tucker, for

