GRANT v. PIICENIX LIFE INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

GRANT 'v. PH(ENIX LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
GRANT and Another v. SAME.
ORIGINAL MOTION IN TWO CAUSES PENDING IN THIS COURIT ON AP
PEAL FROM THE SUPREM1E COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLU-IA.
Submitted January 7,1837. -Decided

January 31, 1S87.

In a suit for foreclosing a mortgage, it appearing that a receiver has
been appointed of the mortgaged premises, and that the mortgagor, appellant, is unable to pay the cost of printing the record on appeal, and
that there are rents and profits in the receiver's hands collected during
the pendency of the suit, the court orders tlle receiver to pay to the clerk
the stim estimated to be necessary to complete the cost of printing the
record.

THE following motion was filed in these cases:
"The-above appellant [Grant] moves the honorable the Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States, that Brainard
I=.
Warner the receiver, appointed by the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia in Equity Cause 4291, be directed to
turn over to the Clerk of this Honorable Court out of the
rents and profits in his hands the amount of $5500, for costs
accruing or to accrue, in the hearing of the cause, and for
counsel fees as set forth in the petition, for the following
reasons:
"First. Because the rents and profits are not mortgaged to
the appellee, and said appellee has no right nor just claims to
the fund in the hands of the said Warner.
"Second. Because the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia in General Term, has once finally decided that said
rents and profits belong to the appellant, and discharged a receiver for that reason, and turned over the property and
funds to the appellant by the decree of said court.
"Third. Because at the time' of the appointment of said
Warner, the cause stood precisely as it stood on*February 12,
1878, when the court discharged the former receiver, and
because appellant was refused a hearing by the court below

OCTOBER TER313 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

on said appointment which was made by an interlocutory
order and not being continued in the final decree of June 16,
1883, said appointment was superseded thereby.
"Fourth. Because the appellee has delayed the cause for
many years by violating the rules and practices of- the court,
and thereby has caused the "destrfiction of the property and
loss of the ients and profits.
"Fifth. 'Because without receiving the amount prayed for in
his petition, appellant will not be able to properly present his
case. to your Honorable Court, and will thus be prevented from
obtaining the right and justice to which he is entitled.
"Sixth. Because of many other manifest reasons appearing
of record and set forth i. the petition."
Leave was granted to both sides to file briefs.
X1&. H. TVBlair for the motion.
-MR. CHIEF JusTIcE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

We find that the cost- of printing the record in
$1327.00
............
No. 165 has been ...
and that the estimated clerk's fees in the same case
900.00
.
.................
are ......
............. . .. . $2927.00
In all ...
Of this the appellant has paid:
1. To the printer ... ........ .$552
952.00
........ .400
2. To the clerk ...
Leaving a balance of ...

....

$1275.00

which the appellanit representahimself as unable to pay, and
the urinter will not allow the requisite number of the printed
copies to be delivered for use at the hearing until his claim is
satisfied. The money in the hands of the receiver has been
collected from the rents of the mortgaged property during the
pendency of the suit. We, therefore, direct that there be paid
by the receiver to the clerk of this court the sum of $1275, to
be by him used in payment of the amount now due for printing the record, -andthe amount of his own taxable fees in the

WINCHESTER' -v.

HEISELL.

Opinion of the Court.

case, not already paid by the appellant. " A copy of this 6rder
may be certified to the colrt below so that it may be carried
into effect by an appropriate order of that court upon, the
receiver.
The, motion papers now. on file do not show that the matters
involved in the appeal in'No. 1201 are of a character to make
it proper to direct that the clerk's costs and the expense of
printing the record in that ease be paid by the receiver. Except as to the payment of clerk's fees and printer's charges in
No. 165 as above, the motions are overruled.
.Motion,9ranted in part dnd denied in part as to jrst suit;
and denied as to second.

WINOHESTER v. HEISKELL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TENNESSEE.
Submitted January25, 1887.-Decded January 31, 1887.

The court restates what was decided in Winchester v. Heiskell, 119 U. S. 450,.
and, on petition for rehearing, adheres to it.

Tnis was a petition for a rehearing in the case decided in 119
U. S. 450-453.
Mre. B. X. Zstes for the petitioner.
MR. CIF

JUSTIcE

W~ir

delivered the opinion of tle"

court.
This petition is denied, but inasmuch as the petitionersthink
that the points on which they relied for a reversal of the judgment were not clearly understood, we will restate what was.
decided.
1. We held that, as the suit of Townsend v. Jones was pencIing when Townsend filed his petition in bankruptcy, and when
he made his assignment to Winchester, the assignee, WinchesvoL. cxx-18

