OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

not made subject to any claim of any of these appellees. An
amendment of that decree, made on the 2d of March, 1886,
prior to the sale, provided "that the sale of the property hereinbefore ordered shall pass to the purchaser a title thereto,
free and discharged of all liens and claims, including the two
classes of claims mentioned in the sixth paragraph of said
decree." The question of the existence and priority of those
claims is, therefore, one open for consideration on these appeals.
The various questions above stated as being raised by the
appellees, which are not particularly adverted to, have been
fully considered, and it is not regarded as necessary to further
remark upon them, or upon the special points made in regard
to the particular claims of the appellees, as the views on which
we have rested the case seem to us to be controlling on those
questions and points.
The decree of the Circuit Court, made October 9th, 1886, is
Pei~ersed, in so far as it decrees that the claims of the five
appellees are prior, superior,andparamnount to the lien of
the mortgages or deeds of trust mentioned in the decree of
February 16th, 1886, and of the bonds secured thereby;
and in so far as it provides for the payment to the appellees, out of the fund in the registry of the court, of the
several sums of money specifed in, the said decree of the
.9th of October, 1886 and the case is remanded to the Circuit Court, with a direction to take such further proceedings as shalZ. not be inconsistent with this opinion.

BALDWIN v. FRANKS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Suibmitted April 26, 188. -Decided

Marcb 7,1887.

Congress has power, under the.Constitution, to provide for the punishment
of persons guilty of depriving Ch1inese subjects of any of the rights,
privileges, immunities, or exemptions guaranteed .to them by the treatY

BALDWIN v. FRANKS.
Statement of Facts.
of November 17, 1880; but Congress has not made such provision in
§ 5519, Rev. Stat., nor in § 5508, nor in § 5336.
Section 5519, Rev. Stat., is unconstitutional as a prbvision for the punish-,
ment of a conspiracy, within a state, to deprive an alien of rights guarauteed to him therein by a treaty of the United States: whether It can be
enforced in a territory, against persons conspiring there with that object
is not now decided.
?2ited States Y. Reese, 92 U. S. 214, affirmed, and applied to the facts in
this case.
To give' effect to the rule that when part of a statute is constitutional and
part is unconstitutional, that which is .constitutional will, if possible, be
enforced, and that which is unconstitutional will be rejected, the two
parts must be capable of separatign, so fthat each can bd read by itself;
limitation by construction is ,lot separation
Packet Co. v. Keokuk, 95 U. S. r,,:and Presser v. Bllinois, 116 U. S. 252, distinguished.
In describing the offence against a citizen of the United States for which
punishment is provided byRev. Stat. § 5508, the word "citizen" is used
in its political sense; with the same meaning which it has in the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution; and not as being synonymous
-vith"resident," "inhabitant," or "person."
To constitute the offence described in the first clause, of Rev. Stat. § 5336,
it is not enough -that a law of the United States is violated, but there
must be a forcible resistance to a positive assertion of their authority as
a government.
To constitute an offence under the second clause of Rev. Stat. § 5336 there
must be a forcible resistance to the authority of the United States while
they are endeavoring to carry their laws into execution.

PETITION for writ of hahea8 6orppU.

The.petitioner set forth

that he was arrested by the defendant in error, United States
Marshal for the District of California,, under a warrant issued
by a commissioner of the Circuit Court of the United States
charging him with conspiring with others to deprive certain
subjects of the Emperor of China "of the equal protection of
the laws and of equal privileges and immunities under the
laws." The petition set- forth the warrant, describing the
alleged illegal acts, and closed with this averment and prayer:
"And your petitiofier claims and avers that the said commissioner of the said Circuit Court had no jurisdiction or authority to issue the said warrant, or to commit your said petitioner to the custody of the said United States Marshal, for
the said offence alleged in the said complaint, nor has the said

OCTOBER TERM1, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

2Marshal any warrant or authority of law to confine your said
petitioner or restrain him of his liberty, as aforesaid; that the
offence charged in the said complaint, and for which the said
warrant was issued,, and for which your said petitioner is now
being held in confinement, is one purely of state jurisdiction,
and over which the Government of the United States and its
tribunals have no jurisdiction whatsoever. That your petitioner is a citizen of the United States and of the state of
California, and that said offence is alleged to have been committed in the county of Sutter and within the jurisdiction of
said state; Wherefore, to be relieved of said unlawful, detention and imprisonmen, your petitioner prays that a writ of
habeas corpus, to be directed to the said J. C. Franks, may
issue in this behalf, so that your petitioner may be forthwith
brought before this court to do, submit to, and receive what
the lawvt may require."
The court below refused the writ. The petitioner then sued
out this writ of error.
Mr. A. L. Hfart for plaintiff in error.
ilk. fall .3eAlZisterfor defendant in error.
AIR. CHIEF JUsTICE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error brought by Thomas Baldwin, the
plaintiff in error, for the review of a judgment of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of California refusing his discharge, on a writ of habeas eypus, from the custody
of the marshal of the district, and the questions presented for
consideration arise on a certificate of the judges, holding the
court, of a division of opinion between them in the progress of
the trial. The record shows that Baldwin was-held in custody
by the marshal, under a warrant issued by a commissioner of
the Circuit Court, on a charge of conspiracy with Bird Wilson,
William. Hays, and others to deprive Sing Lee and others,
belonging to "a class of Chinese aliens, being
.
.
subjects of the Emperor of China, of the equal protection of the
laws and of equal privileges and immunities under the laws,

BALDWIN v. FRANKS.
Opinion of the Court.

for that said
.persons
so belonging to the class of
Chinese alieis did then . .
reside at the town of Nicolaus,
in said county of Sutter, in said State of Californid, and were
engaged in legitimate business and labor to earn a living, as
they had a right o do, and they at that time had a right to
reside at said town of Nicolaus,
and engage in legitimate business and labor to earn a living, under and by virtue
of the treaties existing, and which did then exist, between the
Government of the United States and the Emp6ror of China,
and the Constitution and laws of the 'United States; but,
nevertheless, while said
persons were . . . so
residing and pursuing their legitimate business and labor for
the purpose aforesaid, said conspirators . . . did,
having conspired together for that purpose, unlawfully and
with force and arms, violently and with intimidation, -drive
and expel said persons, . .
belonging to said class of
Chinese, . . .
from their residence at said town of Nicolaus, . .
and did
.
.
deprive them . .
of the
privilege of conducting their legitimate business and of the
privilege of laboring to earn a living, and, without any legal
process, . -. . placed. said Chinese aliens
.
under
unlawful restraint and arrest, and so detained them for several
hours, and . ...
by torce and arms, and with violence afid
intimidation, placed them . . . upon a steamboat barge,
then plying on the Feather River, and drove them from their
residence and labor and from said county."
The questions certified relate only to the sufficiency of this
charge for the detention of the prisoner. There are nine questions in all, the first six having reference to § 5519 of the
Revised Statutes, and the others to §§ 5508 and 5336, as the
authority for the prosecution. The fourth fairly presents
the whole case as it arises under § 5519, and that is as follows:
"14. Whether a conspiracy of two or more persons in the
State .of California, for the purpose of depriving Chinese residents, lawfully residing in California, in pursuance of the
provisions of the several treaties between the United States
and the Emperot of China, of the right to live and pursue
their lawful vocations at the town of Nicolaus in said State,

682

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

and in pursuance of such conspiracy, actually, forcibly expelling such Chinese from 'said town, in the manner shown by
the record, is: 1. A violation of and an offence within the
meaning of §. 5519 of the Revised Statutes of the United States.
2. Whether said section, so far as it applies to said state
of facts and such Chinese residents, and makes theacts stated
an offence against the United States, is constitutional and
valid? "
The seventh presents all the points for consideration under
§§ 5508 and 5336, as follows:
"'7'. Where two or more persons, with or without disguise,
go upon the premises of Chinese subjects, lawfully residing in
the State of California, with intent to prevent and hinder their.
free exercise or enjoyment of any right secured to them by
the several treaties between the United States and the Emperor of China, and, in pursuance of such conspiracy, forcibly
prevent their exercise and enjoyment of such rights, and expel
such Chinese subjects from the town in which they reside:
"Whether (1) such acts so performed constitute an offence
within the meaning of the provisions of § 5508 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States ? and,
"(2) If so, whether the provisions of said section, so making
said acts an offence, are constitutional and valid ?
"(3) Whether sudh acts so performed constitute an offence
within the meaning of that clause of § 5336 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States, which makes it an offence for
two or more persons in any state to conspire, 'by force, to
prevent, hinder, or delay the execution of any law of the
United States,' or within the meaning of any other clause of
said sedtion? and,
"1(4) Whether said section, so far as applicable to the facts
stated, is a constitutional and valid law of the United States?"
The precise. question we have to determine is not whether
Congre s .has the constitutiohal authority to provide for the
punishthent of such an offence as that with which Baldwin is
eharged, but whdther it has so done.
-That the treaty-making power has been surrendered by the
§tates and given to the United States, is unquestionable. It is

BALDWIN v. FRANKS.
Opinion of the Court.

true, also, tlat the treaties made by the United States and in
force are part of the supreme law of the land, and that they
are as binding within the territorial lints of tho states as
they are elsewhere throughout the dominion of the United
States.
Articles II and II of a treaty between the United States
-and the Emperor of China, concluded November 17, 1880, and
proclaimed by the President of the United States, -October 5,
1881, are as follows:
"AATCLE I.
Chinese subjects, whether proceeding to the
United States as teachers, students, merchants, or from curiosity, together with their body and household servants, and
Chinese laborers who are now in the United States, shall be
allowed to go and come of their own fre6 will and accord, and
shall be accorded all the rights, privileges, immunities and
exemptions which are accorded to the citizens and subjects
of the most favored nation."
"A.ArTicr IL. If Chinese laborers or Chinese of any other
class, now either permanently or temporarily residing in the
territory of the United States, meet with ill treatment at the
hands of any other persons, the Government of the United
States will exert all its power to devise measures for their protection and to secure to them the same rights, privileges,
immunities, and exemptions as may be enjoyed by the citizens
or subjects of the most favored nation, and to which they are
entitled by treaty." 22 Stat. 827.
That the United States have power under the Constitution
to provide for the punishment of those who are guilty of depriving Chinese subjects of any of the rights, privileges, immunities, or exemptions guaranteed to them by this treaty, we
do not doubt., What we have to decide, under the questions
certified here from the court below, is, whether this has been
done by the sections of the Revised Statutes. specially referred
to. These sections are as follows:
"SEc. 5519.

If two or more persons in any state or territory

conspire, or go in disguise on the highway or on the premises
of another, for the purpose of depriving, either directly or indirectly, any person or class of persons of the etqual protection

684

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

of the laws, or of equal privileges and immunities under the
laws; or for the purpose of 'preventing or hindering the constituted authorities of any state or territory from giving or securing to all persons within such state or territory the equal
protection of the laws; eaph of such persons shall be punished
by a fine of not less than five hundred nor more than five
thousand dollars, or by imprisonment, with or without hard
labor, not less.than six months nor more than six years, or by
both such fine and imprisonment."
"SEc. 5508. If two or more persons conspire to injure,
oppress, threaten, or intimidate any citizen in the free exercise
or enjoyment of any right or privilege secured to him by
the Constitution or laws of the United States, or because of
his having so exercised the same; or if two or more persons
go in dis'guise on the highway, or on the premises of another,
with intent, to prevent or hinder his free exercise or enjoyment of any right or privilege so secured, they shall be fiined
not more than five thousand dollars, and imprisoned not more
than ten years; and shall, moreover, be thereafter ineligible
to any office, or place of honor, profit, or trust created by the
Constitution or laws of the United States."
"SEc. 5336. If two or more persons in any state or territory conspire to overthrow, put down, or to destroy by force
the Government of the United States, or to le' y war against
them, or to oppose by force the authority thereof ;. or by force
to prevent, hinder, or delay the execution of any law of the
United States; or by force to seize, take, or possess any property of the United States contrary to the authority thereof;
each of them shall be punished by a fine of not less than five
hundred dollars and not more than five thousand dollars; or
by imprisonment, with or without hard labor, for a period not
less than six months, nor more than six years, or by both such
fine and imprisonment."
As the charge on which Baldwin is held in custody-was
evidently made under § 5519, and that is the section which
was most considered in the court below, we will answer the
questions based on that first. It provides for the punishment'
.
for
.
of those who "in any state or territory conspire

BALDWIN

v. FRANKS.

Opinion of the Court.

the purpose of depriving, either directly or indirectly, any'
person or class of persons of the equal proteetion of the laws,
or of equal privileges or immunities under the laws."
In United States v. Harris, 106 U. S. 629, it was decided
that this section was unconstitutional, as a provision for the
punishment of conspiracies of the character therein mentioned,
within a state. It is now said, however, that in that case the
conspiracy charged was by persons in a state against a citizen
of the United States and of the state, to deprive him of the
protection he was entitlkd to under the laws of that state, no
special rights or privileges arising under the Constitution,
laws, or treaties of the United States being involved; and it is
argued that, although the section be invalid so far as such an
offence is concerned, it is good for the punishment of those
who conspire to deprive aliens of the rights guaranteed to'
them in a state, by the treaties of the United. States., In
support of this argument reliance is had on the well settled
rule that a statute may be in part constitutional and in part
unconstitutional, and that under some ciricumstances the part
which is constitutional will be enforced, and only that which
is unconstitutional rejected. To.give effect to this rule, however, the parts- that which is constitutional and that which
is unconstitutional - must be capable of separation,. so that
each may be read--by itself. This statute, considered as a
statute punishing conspiracies in a state, is not of that chardicter, for in that 'connection it has no parts within the meaning of the rule. Whether it is separable, so that it can be
enforced in a territory, though not in a state, is quite another
question, and one we are not now called on to decide. It
provides in general terms for the punishment of all who
conspire for the purpose of depriving any person, or any class
of persons, of the equal protection of the laws, or of equal
privileges or immunities under the laws. A single provision,
which makes up the whole section, embraces those who conspire against citizens as well as those who conspire against
aliens - those who conspire to deprive one of his rights under
the laws of a state, and those who conspire to deprive him of
his rights under the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the

OCTOBER, TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

United States. The limitation which is sought must be made,
if at all, by construction, not by separation. This, it has often
been decided is not enough.
Thus, in Urnited States v. Reese, 9 U. S. 214, the indictment
was against two of the inspectors of a municipal election in
Kentucky,. under §§ 3 and 4 of the act of May 31, 1870, c. 114,
16 Stat. 140, which provided in general terms for the punishment of inspectors who should wrongfully refuse to receive
the vote of a citizen when presented under certain circumstances, and for the punishment of those who by unlawful
means hindered or delayed any citizen from doing any act
required to be done to qualify him to vote, or from voting at
any election. There was nothing in either of the sections
to limit their opetation to a refusal or hindrance " on account
of the race, color, or previous, condition of servitude" of the
voter, and it was held that they were unconstitutional because,
on their face, they were-broad enough to cover wrongful acts
without as well as within the 'constjtutional power of Congress.. An attempt was made there as here to limit the
statute by construction, so as to make it operate only on that
which Congress might rightfully.prohibit and punish; but to
this the court said, p. 221: "For this puipose we must take
these'sections of the statute as they are. We are not able to
reject a part which is unconstitutional, and retain the remainder, because it is not p-ssibleto'separate that which is unconstitutional, if there be any such, from that which is not. The
proposed effect is not to be attained by striking out or disregarding words that are in the section, but-by inserting those
that are not now. there. Each of the sections must stand as
a whole, or. fall altogether. The language is plain. There is
no room for construction, unless it be as to the effect of the
Constitution. The question then to be determined is, whether
we can introduce words of limitation into a penal statute so as
to make it specific, when, as expressed, it is general only."
This was answered in the negative, the court remarking: "To
limit this statute in the manner now asked for would be to
make a new law, not to enforce an old one."
Following this were the .Ta Me-Mark Cases, 100 U. S. 82, in

BALDWIN v. FRAXIKS.
Opinion of the Court.

which there were indictments undpr §§ 4 and 5 of the act of
August 14, 1816, c. 274, 19 Stat. 141, "to punish the counter.feiting of trade-mark goods and the sale-or dealing in.
of counterfeit trade-mark goods." Of this act the court said, speaking
through Mr. Justice Miller, p. 98, that its broad purpose "was to
establish a universal system of trade-mark registration, for the
benefit of all who had already used a trade-mark, or who wished
to adopt one in the future, without-regard to the character of
the trade to which it was to be applied or the residence of the
owner, with the solitary exception that those who resided. in
foreign countries which extended no such privileges to us were
excluded from them here." A statute so broad and sweeping
was then held not to be within the constitutional grant of
legislative power to Congress, but p. 95, "whether the trademark bears such a relation to commerce in general terms as
to bring it within congressional control, when used or applied
to the classes of commerce which fall within that control,"
was properly left undecided. The indictment, however, presented a case in Which the defendant was charged with having
in his possession counterfeits and colorable imitations of the
trade-marks of foreign manufacturers, and it was suggested
that if Congress had power to regulate trade-marks used in
commerce with foreign nations and among the several States,
this statute might be held valid in that class of cases, if no
further; but the court decided otherwise, and in so doing said,
p. 98:" While it may be true that when one part of a statute
is valid and constitutional, and another part is unconstitutional
and void, the court may enforce the valid part, where they are
distinctly separable, so that each can stand alone, it is not
within the judicial prbvince to give to the words used by Congress.a narrower meaning than they are manifestly intended
to bear, in order that crimes may be pimished wlich are not
described in language that brings them within the constitutional power of that body." And again, further on, after citing United States v. Reese, and quoting from the opinion in
that case, it was said, p. 99: "If we should, in the case before
us, undertake to make by judicial construction a law which
Congress did not make, it is quite probable we should do what,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinign of the Court.

if the matter were now before that body, it would be unwilling to' do;' namely, make a trade-mark law which is only partial in its operation, and which would complicate the rights
which parties would hold, in some instances under the act of
Congress, and in others under State law."
The same questioVL was also considered and the former decisions approved in United States v. JHar is, supra; and in the
Virginia C'opo Cases, 114 U. S. 269, 305, it was said that
"to hold otherwise would be to substitute for the law intended
by the legislature one they may never have been willing by
itself to enact."
I; is suggested, however, that Packet Co. v. Keokiik, 95 U.
S. 80, and Presserv. Illinois, 116 U..S. 252, are inconsistent
with United States v. Reese and the Trade-iMark Cases ; but we
do not so understand them. In Packet Co. v. KEeokuk, the
question arose upon an ordinance of the cit of Keokuk establishing a wharf on the Mississippi River and the .rates of
wharfage to be paid f6r its use. In its general scope the
ordinance was broad enough to include a part of the shore of
the river declared to be a wharf, which was in its natural. condition and unimproved. The city.had, however, actually built,
paved, and improved a Wharf at a large expense within the
limits of the ordinance, and the charges then in question were
for the use of the facilities thus provided for receiving and discharging cargoes. An objection was made to the validity of
the ordinance, because it provided for charges to be paid for
the use of the unimproved bank as well as for the improved
wharves, but the court said, p. 89: "The ordinance of Keokuk
has imposed no charge upon these plaintiffs which it was beyond the pdwer of the city to impose. To the extent to which
they are affected by it there is no valid objection to it. Statutes that are constitutioial in part only will be upheld so far
as they are not in conflict with the Constitution, provided the
allowed and prohibited parts are severable. We think a severance is possible in this case. It may be conceded that the
ordinance is too broad, and that some of its provisions are
When zhose provisions are attempted to be
unwarranted.
enforced, a different question may be presented." That was

BALDWIN v. FRANKS.
Opinion of the Court.

not a penal statute, but only a city ordinance regulating'wharfage, and the suit was civil in its nature. The only question
was whether the packet company was bound to pay for the
use of improved wharves when the ordinance, taken in its
breadth, fixed the charges and required payment for the use of
that part of the established wharf which was unimproved as
well as that which was improved. The precise point to be
determined was whether, under those circumstances, the vessel
owners were excused from paying for the use of that which
was improved.
In Presserv. Illinois, the indictment was for a violation of
the provisions of one of the secti6ns of the Military Code of
Illinois, and it was claimed that the whole code was invalid,
because in its. general scope and effect it was in conflict with
Title XVI of the Revised .Statutes of the United States upon
the subject of "The Militia." But the court held that, even if
the first two sections of the code, on which the objection rested,
were invalid, they were easily separable from the rest which
could be maintained. The objectionable sections related to
the em'olment of the militia in the state generally, and the
rest to the organization of eight thousand men as a" volunteer
active militia." This evidently brought that case within the
rule which controls the determination of this class of questions,
that the constitutional part of a statute may be enforced and
the unconstitutional part rejected "where the parts are so distinctly separable that each can stand alone, and where the
court is able to see and. to declare that the intention of the
legislature was that the part pronounced valid should be enforcible, even though the other part should fail." l7iryinia
(ozpon Cases, 114 U. S. at p. 305. As was said in Iouisiana
v. Allen, 103 U. S. 80, 84: "The point to be determined in all
such cases is whether the unconstitutional provisions are so.
connected with the general scope of the law as to make it
impossible, if they are stricken out, to give effect to what
appears to have been the intent of the legislature."
Applying this rule to the present case, it is clear that § 5519
cannot be sustained in whole or in part in its operation .within
a state, unless United States v. Harris is overruled, and this
VOL. cxx -44

OCTOBER TERM1,

1886:

Opinioh of the Court.

we §ee no occasion for doing. That case was carefully considered at the time, and subsequent reflection has not changed
our opinion as then expressed. For this reason'we answer the
second branch ;f the fourth question, which has been certified
in the negative. This disposes of all.the other points included
in the first six questions, and no further answer to them is
necessary.
We come now to the questions certified, which arise under §
5508. That this section is constitutional was decided in -E
parte.,YrrougA, 110 U. S: 651, and United States v. WaddelZ,
112 U. S. -76. The real question to be determined, therefore,
is, whetherwhat is charged to have been done by Baldwv. constitutes an offence within the meaning of its provisions.
The section is found in Title LXX, c. 7, of the Revised

Statutes embracing "Crimes against the Elective Franchise
and Civil Rights of Citizens," and it provides for the punishment of those "who conspire to injure, oppress, threaten, or
intimidate any citizen in the free exercise or enjoyment of any
right or privilege secured to him by the Constitution or laws
of the United States, or because of his having exercised the
same;" and of those-who go in companies of two or more "in
disguise on the highway, or on the premises of another, with
intent to prevent or hinder his free exercise or enjoyment of
any right or privilege so secured." The person on whom the
wrong to be punishable must be inflicted is described as a
citizen. In the Constitution and laws of the United States the
word ",citizen" is generally, if not always, used in a political
sense to designate one who has the rights and privileges of a
citizen of a state or of the United States. It is so used in section
1 of Article XIV of the amendments of the Constitution, which
provides that "all persons born or naturalized in the United
States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of
the United States and of the state wherein they reside," and
that "no state shall make or enforce, any law which shall
abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United
States." But it is also sometimes used in popular language to
indicate the same thing as resident, inhabitant, or person.
That it is not so used in § 5508 in the Revised Statutes is quite

BALDWIN v. FRANKS.
Opinion of the Court.

clear, if we revert to the original statute from which this section was taken. That statute was the act of Mvay 31, 1870, c.
114, 16 Stai. 140, "to enforce the Right of Citizens of the
United States to. vote in the several States of this Union, and
for other purposes." It is the statute which was under consideration as to some of its sections in United States v. Reese,
supra,and from its title, as well as its text, it is apparent that
the great purpose of Congress in its enactment was to enforce
the political rights of citizens of the United States in the several states. Under these circumstances there cannot be a doubt
that originally the word "citizen" was used in its political sense,
and as the Revised Statutes are but a revision and consolidation of the statutes in force December 1, 1873, the presumption
is thiat the word has the same meaning there that it had originally.
This particular section is a substantial re-enactment of § 6
of the original act, which is found among the sections that deal
exclusively with the political rights of citizens, especially their
right to vote, and we'e evidently intended to prevent discriminations in this particular against voters on account "of race,
color, or previous condition of servitude." Sometimes, as in
§§ 3 and 4, the language is broader than this, and therefore, as
decided in United States v. Reese, those sections are inoperative, but still it is everywhere apparent that Congress had it
in mind to legislate for citizens, as citizens, and not as mere
persons, residents or inhabitants.
This section is highly penal in its character, much more so
than any others, for it not only provides as a punishment for the
offence a fine of not more than five thousand dollars and an
imprisonment of not more than ten years, but it declares that
any person *convicted shall "be thereafter ineligible to any
office, or place of honor, profit, or trust created by the Constitution or laws of the United States." It is, therefore, to be
construed strictly; not so strictly as to defeat the legislative
will, but doubtful words are not to be extended beyond their
natural meaning in the connection in which they are used.
Here the doubtful word is "citizen," and it is used in connection
with the rights and privileges pertaining to a man as a citizen,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court

and not as a person only or an inhabitant. And, besides, the
crime has been classified in the revision among those which
relate to the elective frahchise and the civil rights of citizens.
For these reasons we are satisfied that the word "citizen," as
used in this statute, must be given the same meaning it has in
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution, and that to
constitute the offence which is there provided for, the wrong
must be cone to one who is a citizen in that sense.
It is true that the word "citizen" only occurs in the first
clause of the section, but in the second clause there is nothing
to indicate that any other than a citizen was meant, and the
section of the original statute from which this was taken has
nothing from which any different inference can be drawn.
That clearly deals with citizens alone, and the revision differs
from it only in a re-arrangement of the original sentences and
the exclusion of some superfluous words. Sections 5506 and
5507, which immediately precede this'in the revsion, clearly
refer to political rights only, for they both relate to the privilege of voting, § 5506 being for the protection of citizens in
terms, and § 5507 being for the protection of those to whom
the right of suffrage is guaranteed by the Fifteenth Amendment of the Constitution. It may be that by this construction
of the statute some are excluded from the protection it affords
who are as much entitled to it as those' who are included; but
that is a defect, if it exists, which can be cured by Congress,
but not by the courts.
We therefore answer the first subdivision of the seventh
question certified in the negative. The second subdivision
need not be answered otherwise than it has leen elsewhere
in this opinion.
It remains only to consider that part of the questions certified which relates to § 5336. That section provides for the
punishment of those who conspire, 1, "to overthrow, put down,
or "destroy by force the government of the United States, or to
levy war against them, or to oppose by force the authority
thereof;" or, 2. "by force to prevent, hinder, or delay the executidn of any law of the United States ; "-or, 3, "by force to
seize, take, or possess any property of the United States con-

BALDWIN v. FRANKS.
Opinion of the Court.

trary to the authority thereof," This is a re-enactment of
similar provisions in the act of July 31, 1861, c. 33, 12 Stat.
284, "to define and -punish certain Cofispiracies," and in that
of April 20, 1871, c. 22, § 2, 17 Stat. 13, "to enforce the Provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of
the United States, and for other Purposes."
It cannot be claimed that Baldwin has been charged with a
conspiracy to overthrow the government or to levy war within
the meaning of this section. Nor is he charged with any attempt to seize the property of the United States. "All,,therefore, .depends on that part of t)je section which provides a
punishment for "opposing" by force the authority of the
United States, or for preventing, hindering, or delaying the
"execution" of any law of the United States.
This evidently implies force against the government as a
government. To constitute an offence under the first clause,
the authority of the government must be opposed; that is to
say, force must be brought to resist some positive assertion of
authority by the government. A mere violation of law'is not
enough; there must be an attempt to prevent the actual exercise of authority. That is not pretended in this case. The
force was exerted in opposition to a class of persons .who had,
the right to look to the government for protection against
such wrongs,' not in opposition to the government while
actually engaged in an attempt to afford that protection.
So, too, as to the second clause, the offence consists in preventing, hindering, or delaying the government of the United
States in the execution of its laws. This, as well as the other,
means something more than setting the laws themselves at
defiance. There must be a forcible resistance of the author-.
ity of the United States while endeavoring to carry the laws
into execution. The United States are bound by their treaty
with China to exert their power to devise measures to secure
the subjects of that government lawfully residing within the
territory of the United States against ill treatment, and if
in their efforts to carry the treaty into effect they had been
forcibly opposed by persons who had conspired for that purpose, a state of things contemplated by the statute would have

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

ariseli. But that is not what Baldwin has done. His conspiracy is for the ill treatment itself, and not for hindering or
delaying the United States in the execution of their measures
to prevent 'it. His force was exerted against the Chinese
people, and not against the government in its efforts to protect them. We are compelled, therefore, to answer the third
subdivision of the seventh question in the negative, and that
covers the fourth subdivision.
This disposes of the whole case, and, without answeking the
questions certified more in detail,
1P' reverse the judgment of the Circuit Court, ahd remand
the case for further proceedings not incon&itedt with this
apnion.
NE[ JusricE IH Ax

dissenting.

By the treaty of 1880-1881, with China, the Government
of the United States agreed to exert all its power to devise
measures for the protection, against ill treatment at the hands
of other persons, of Chinese laborers or Chinese of any other
class, permanently or temporarily residing, at the time, in
this country, and to secure to them the same rights, privileges,
immunities and exemptions to which the citizens or subjects of
the most favored nation are entitled, by treaty, to enjoy here.
It would seem from the decision in this case, that if Chinamen,
having a right, under the treaty, to remain in our country, are
forcibly driven from their places of bsiness, the Government
of the United States is without power, in its own courts, to
protect them against such violence, or to punish those who, in
this way, subject them to ill treatment. If this be -so, as to
Chinamen lawfully in the United States, it must be equally
true as to the citizens or subjects of every other foreign natioh,
residing or doing business here under the sanction of treaties
with their respective governments.
I do not think that such is the present state of the law, *and
must dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court.
It is conceded in the opinion of the court to be within the
constitutional power of Congress to provide - as by § 5508 of

,BALDWIN v." FRANKS
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

the Revised Statutes it has done-that " if two o more persons conspire to injure, oppress, threaten, or intimidate any
citizen in the free exercise or enjoyment of any right or privilege secured to him bythe Constitution or laws of the United
States, or because of his having so exercised the same; or: if
two or more persons go in disguise on..the highway, or on the
premises of another, with intent to prevent or hinder his free
exercise or enjoyment of any right or privilege so secured,
they shall be fined," &c. It is also conceded that, in the
meaning of that section, a treaty between this Government
and a foreign nation is a "law" of the United States ;and that
the wrongs done by Baldwin and others to the subjects of the
Emperor of China, named in the warrant, prevented the free
exercise and 'enjoyment of rights and privileges secured to
those'aliens by the treaty between .the United States and
China. I concur in these views, but am unable to assent to
the proposition that the offence charged is not embraced by
the foregoing section or by any other valid enactment of Congress.
My brethren hold that § 5508 degcribes only wrongs done to
a "citizen;" in other words, that Congress did not intend, by
that section, to protect the free exercise or enjoyment of rights
secured by the Constitution or laws of the United States,
except where citizens are concerned. This, it seems to me, is
an interpretation of the statute which its language neither
demands nor justifies. Observe, that the subject with which
Congress was dealing was the protection of "any right or privilege" secured by the Constitution or laws of the United
States. There. is, perhaps, plausible ground for holding that
the first clause of § 5508 embraces only a con Piracy directed
against a "citizen." But the succeeding clause describes two
other and distinct offences, namely, the going of two or more
persons "in disguise on the highway," and the going of two
or more persons "on the _premi8e of another

"-

that is, upon

the premises of another persom - with intent, in either case, to
prevent or hinder the free exercise or enjoyment by such person of any right or privilege secured to him by the Constitution or laws of the United States. The use of the word

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

"another," instead of "citizen," in the latter clause, shows
that, in respect of rights and privileges so secured, Congress
had in mind the protection of persons, whether citizens or not.
In this view, the statute is not unlike the Fourteenth Amendment, the first section of which recognizes as well rights
appertaining to citizenship as rights belonging to persons.
Baldwin and others, according to the statements in the warrant, certainly did go "on the premises of another," with the
inten to interfere with rights which the court concede are
secured by treaty, and, therefore, by the supreme law of the
land. Chew Heang v. United States, 112 U. S. 536, 540;
Head .Money Cases, 112 U. S. 580. In iny judgment the case
is within both the letter and spirit of the statute. It is, however, excepted by the court from its operation by imputing
to Congress the purpose of wifhholding national protection
from those who do not happen to enjoy the privileges of
American citizenship, - a purpose inconsistent with the obligations which the nation has assumed by treaties with other
countries. I cannot think it possible that Congress, while providing for the punishment of two or more persons, who go- on
the prenises of a citizen, with intent to prevent his free exer'cise or enjoyment of rights secured by the Constitution or
laws of the United States, purposely refrained from providing
for the punishment of the same persons going on the premises
of one, not a citizen, with intent to prevent the enjoyment by
the latter of rights secured by the same Constitution and laws.
The rule of .interpretation which the court lays down, if applied in other cases, will lead to strange results. We have
statutes which give "to every person who is the head of a
family, or who ha, arrived at the age of twenty-one years, and
is a citizen of the United States, or who has filed his declaration of intention to become such, as required by the naturalizatipn laws," &c., Rev. Stat. §§ 2289, 2290, and 2291, the right,
fdr purposes of a homestead, and under certain conditions, to
enter unappropriated public lands. The party making the
entry, or, if he be dead, his widow, &c., will be entitled ultimately to receive a patent, provided he resides upon and cultivates the land for a certain length of time, and provided, in

BALDWIN v. FRANKS.

1.697

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

the .case of the foreigner, he shall have become a citizen of
the United States prior to his application for a patent. Now,
suppose that an entry is made, under the homestead statute,
by a citizen, and a similar entry is made at the same time,, in
the same locality, by one who has only filed his declaration of
intention to become a citizen. During the period of residence
upon and cultivation of the lands both of the parties so making
entries are, we will suppose, forcibly driven from the land by
a lawless band of persons, with the intent to prevent them
from perfecting their respective rights to a patent. In the
case of the citizen thus wronged,.we held in United States v.
Waddel, 112 U. S. 76, that he may invoke the protection
given by § 5508, and in that way have the wrong-doers punished in a court of the United States as therein prescribed.
But in the case of the person who has only declared his intention to become a citizen, the wrong-doers cannot be reached
by indictment in a court of the United States, because, under
the decision in this case, that section only furnishes protection
to citizens.
It is said -though I believe no such suggestion is made by
the court - that the words "if two or more persons go in disguise on the highway, or on the premises of another," apply
only when the offenders are "in disguise." I cannot suppose
that Congress intended to make a distinction between wrongdoers going in disguise "on the premises of another," for the
purpose of interfering with rights secured by the Coistituti6n
or laws of the United States, and wrong-doers who openly and
without masks enter upon the same premises with a like unlawful purpose. It intended, rather, to guard the homes of all
persons against invasion by combinations of lawless men, who
seek, by entering those homes, to prevent the :ree exercise of
rights secured by the Constitution or laws of the United States.
If the clause had read, "if two or iiore persons go on the
highway in disguise, or on the premises of another," it would.
never occur to any one that the words ,"on the premises of
another" were qualified by the words "in disguise." The free
exercise of personal rights secured by the United States should
not be made to depend upon the trifling circumrstance that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

words "in disguise" precede,- rather than follow, the words
"on the highway."
In my judgment the going of two or more persons, whether
openly or ir disguise, on the premises of another, whether the
latter be a citizen or not; with intent to prevent hiq free exercise or enjoyment of a right secured by the Constitution or
laws of the United States,' was made by § 5508 an offence.
against the United States.
I feel obliged also to express my non-concurrence in so much
of the opinion of the court as holds that Congress is without
power under the Constitution to make it-as by § 5519 of the
Revised Statutes it is made -an. offence against the United
States for two or more persons, in any state, "to conspire, or
go in disguise on the highway, or on the premises of another,
for the purpose of depriving, directly or indirectly, any person
or class of persons of the equal protection of the laws, or of
equal privileges or immunities under the laws; or for the
purpose of preventing or hindering the constituted authorities
of any state

.

.

.

from giving or securing to all persons

within such state
.
the equal protection of the laws."
It is not necessary, in this case, to inquire what is the full
scope of that clause of the Fourteenth Article of Amendment,
which provides that "no state shall

.

.

.

deny to any per-

son within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws."
It is sufficient to say, that that provision does something 1tore
than prescribe the duty and limit the power of the states.
Taken in connection with the fifth dection, conferring upon
Congress power to enforce the Amendment by appropriate leg-.
islation, that provision is equivalent to a declaration, in affirmative language, that every person within the jurisdiction of a
state has a righft to the equal protection of the laws; just as
the prohibition in the Thirteenth Amendment, against the
existence of slavery, operated not only to annul state laws
upholding that institution, but to establish "universal civil
and political freedom throughout the United States." and to
invest every individual person within their jurisdiction with
the right of freedom, Civil Rights Cases, 109 U. S.3, 20; and
just as the prohibition in the Fifteenth Amendment, against

BALDWIN v. FRANKS.
Dissenting .Opinion: Harlan, 3.

the denial or abridgment of the right of citizens of the United
States to vote, on account of their race, color, or previous condition of servitude, operated to invest such citizens with "a
new constitutional right," which "comes from the United
States," namely, "exemption from discrimination in the exercise of the elective franchise, on account of ,race, color, or previous condition of servitude." Unite. States v. Cruikshank,
92 U. S. 542; United States v. Reese, 9,- U. S. 214.
In the Civil Rights Cases, p. 23, above cited, it was held
that Congress,' under its express power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, the provisions of the Thirteenth Amendment,
could, so far as necessary or proper, enact legislation, "direct
and primary, operating upon the acts of individuals, whether
sanctioned by state legislation or not," for ,the purpose of
eradicating "all forms and incidents of slavery and involuntary
servitude." And since, in the matter of voting, the exemption
of citizens from discrimination on account of race, color, or
previous condition of servitude is a right which :" comes from
the United States," and is "granted or secured by the United
States," United States v. Cruiksk wk above cited, can it be
doubted that Congress, under its express power to enforce the
Fifteenth Amendment, by appropriate legislation, could make
it an offence against the United States for two or more persons
to conspire to deny or abridge the citizen's right to vote, on
account of his race or color? Is there any, redognized exception to the general rule that Congress may, by appropriate
legislation, secure and protect rights, derived from or guaranteed by the Constitution or laws of the United States? Believing that these questions must be answered in the negatiVe,
I am unable to perceive any constitutional objection to § 5519;
certainly, none of such a serious character as to justify this
court in holding that Congress, by enacting it, has transcended
its powers. If the United States is powerless to secure the
equal protection of the laws to persons within the jurisdiction
of a state, until the state, by hostile legislation, or by the
action of her judicial authorities, shall have denied such protection, and can even then interfere only through the courts
of the Union in suits involving either the validity of such state

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

legislation, or the action of the state authorities, it is difficult
to understand why Congress was invested with power, by
appropriate legislation, to enforce the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment; for, without such power of legislation,
the courts of the Union are competent to. annul any state laws
or reverse any action' of state judicial officers, which deny .the
equal protection of the laws to any partidular person or class
of persons. Indeed, since the organization of the government,
there has existed a remedy in the courts of the Union for any
denial, in a state court, of rights, privileges, or immunities
derived from the United States. It seems to me that the main
purpose of giving Congress power to enforce, by legislation,
the provisions of the Amendment was, that the rights therein
granted or guaranteed might be guarded and protected against
lawless combinations of individuals, acting without the direct
sanction of the state. The denial by the state of the equal
protection of the laws to persons within its jurisdiction may
arise as well from the failure or inability of the -state authorities to give that protection, as from unfriendly enactments.
If Congress, upon looking over the whole ground, determined
that an effectual and appropriate mode to secure such protection was to proceed directly against combinations of individuals,
who sought, by conspiracy or by. violent means, to defeat the
enjoyment of tue right given by the Constitution, I do not see
upon what ground the courts can question the validity of legislation to that end.
There is another view of this question which seems to be
important.. In United States v. Waddell, 112 U. S. 76, and
again in this case, the court has sustained the power of Congress to enact § 5508, which, among other things, makes it an
offence against the United States for two or more persons
to "go in disguise on the highway, or on the premises of
another," with intent to prevent or hinder his free exercise
or enjoyment of any right or privilege secured by the Constitution or laws of the United States. Now, it is difficult to
understand why, if Congress can do this, it may not make it
an offence for the same persons (§ 5519) to "go in disguise on
the highway, or on the premises of another, for the purpose

BALDWIN v. FRANKS.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

of depriving, directly or indirectly, any person or class of.
persons, of the equal protection of the laws." The only possible answer to this suggestion is to say that "the equal protection of the laws" is not a right or privilege secured by the
Constitution of the United States. But that, it, seems to me,
cannot be said, without doing violence to the language of that
instrument, and defeating the intention with which thd people
adopted it.
It was long since announced by this court that "Congress
must possess the choice of means, and must be empowered to
use any means which are in fact conducive to the exercise
of a power granted by the Constitution." United States v..
Fis/ker, 2 Cranch, 358. And in XlcCulloch v. .aryland, 4
Wheat. 361, 421, Chief Justice Marshall, spealing for the
court, said: "The sound construction of the Constitution must
allow to the national legislature that discretion, with respect
to the means by which the powers it confers are to be carried
into 'execution, which will enable that body to perform the
high duties assigned to it in the manner most beneficial to the
people." In view of these settled doctrines of constitutional.
law, I am unwilling to say that it is not appropriate legislation for the enforcement of the right, given by the Constitution, to the equal protection of the laws, for Congress to make
it an offence against the United States, punishable by fine and
imprisonment, for two or more persons in any state to conspire, or go in disguise on the highway, or go on the premises
of another, for the purpose of depriving him of the equal protection of the laws.
Mu.

Js TiCE

FTnu dissenting.

I agree with the majority of the eotirt in its construction of
the dlfferent sections of the 1evised-StAtites which have 'been
under consideration in this case, except the third .clause of
53336, and the last clause of § 5508.
The third clause of § 5336 declares that if two or more persons in any state or territory conspire "by force to prevent,
hinder, or' delay the execution of any law of the United

702

OCTOBER TERU, '188.
]Dissenting-Opinion: Field, J.

Statds," 'each of thein shall -be punished by a fine of not less
than $500 or more than $5,000, or by imprisonment, with or
without hard labor, for a period of not less than six months or
more than six years; or by both such fine and imprisonment.
By the treaty with China of 1868 the United States recognize the right of Chinese to emigrate to this country, and declare tfhat in the United States the subjects of that empire
shall enjPy the same privileges and immunities in respect to
residence which are enjoyed by citizens or subjects of the most
favored nation.
The complaint aga'inst the plaintiff in error is, that he conspired with others to expel by force from the town of Kicolaus,
and the county of Sutter, in the State of California, the subjects of the Emperor of China, who were residing and doing
business there, and in furtherance of the conspiracy entered
the homes of certain persons of that class, seized them, and
forcibly placed them upon a barge on Feather River, on the
bank of which the town .of lNicolaus is situated, and drove
them from the county, and thus deprived them of privileges
and immunities conferred by the treaty.
For this alleged offence the plaintiff in error, with others,
was arrested. 'On application for a habeas corpus for his discharge, the judges of the Circuit Court were divided in opinion.
This court holds that a conspiracy thus violently to expel the
Chinese from"the county and town where they resided and did
business, and thus defeat the provisions of the treaty, was not
a conspiracy to prevent or hinder by foroe the execution of a
law of the United States, although a treaty is declared by the
Constitution to be the supreme law of the land.
Under the Constitution, a treaty between the United States
and a foreign nation is to be considered in two aspects -as a
c6mpact between the two nations, and as a law of our country.
As a compact, it depends for its enforcement on the good faith
of the contracting parties, and to carry into effect some of its
provisions may require legislation. For any infraction of its
stipulations importing a contract, the courts can afford n6
redress except as provided by such legislation. The matter is
one to be settled by negotiation between the executive depart-

BALDWIN v. FRANKS.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

ments of the two governments, each government being at lib-.
erty to take such measures for redress as it may deem advisa,
ble. Foster v. NYeilson; 2 Pet. 253, 314; Head .Money Cases,
112 U. S. 580, 598; Taylor v. Morton, 2 Curtis, 454, 459; In
re AA Lung, 9 Sawyer, 306; S. C. 18 Fed. Rep. 28.
But in many instances a treaty operates by its own force,
that is, without the aid of any legislative enactment; and such
is generally the case when-it declares the-rights and privileges
- which the citizens or subjects of each nation may enjoy in the
country of the other. This was so with the clause in some of
our early treaties with European nations, declaring that their
subjects might dispose of lands held by them in the United
States, and that their heirs might inherit such property, or the
proceeds thereof, notwithstanding their alienage. Thus the
treaty -with Great Britain of 1,794 provided that British subjects then holding lands in the United States, and American
citizens holding lands in the dominions of Great Britain, should.
continue to hold them according to the nature and tenure of
their respective estates and titles therein, and might grant, sell,
or devise the same to whoni they pleased, in like manner as if
they were natives, and that neither they nor their heirs nor
assigns should, as far as might respect the said lands, and the
legal remedies incident thereto, be regarded as aliens. Art. 9,
8 Stat. 122. A clause.to the same purport, and embracing also
movable property, was in the treaty with France of 17,78, art.
11, 8 Stat. 18, and also in that of 1800, art. 7, 8 Stat. 182. It
required no legislation to give force to this provision. It was
the law of the land by virtue of the Constitution, and congressional legislation could not add to its efficacy. Whenever invoked by the alien heirs, the rights it conferred were enforced
by the Federal courts. Chiracv. Chirac, 2 Wheat. 259;. Carveal v. Banks, 10 Wheat. 181; Hughes v. Edwards, 9 Wheat.
489, 496. See also the Treaty with the Swiss Confederation of
1850, art. 5, 11 Stat. 590; Hauenstine v. Lynham, 100 U. S. 483.
This is so also with clauses, found in some treaties with foreign nations, stipulating that the subjects or citizens of those
nations may trade with the United States, and, for that purpose, freely enter our ports with their ships and cargoes, and

OCTOBER TERM," 1886.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

reside and do business here. Thus the treaty of commerce
with Italy of February 26, 1871, provides that "Italian citizens in the United States, and citizens of the United States in
Italy, shall mutually have liberty to enter, with their ships and
cargoes, all the ports of the United States and of Italy respectively, which may be open to foreign commerce. They shall
alsohave liberty to sojourn and reside in all parts whatever of
said territories." Xrt. 1, 17 Stat. 815. These stipulations operate by their own force; that is, they require no legislative
action for their enforcement. Treaty of commerce with Great
Britain of 1815, art. 1, 8 Stat. 228; renewed and continued for
ten years by art. 4 of the treaty of 1818, 8 Stat. 249 ; and continued indefinitely by art. 1 of the treaty of 1827, 8 Stat. 361;
treaty with Bolivia of May 13, 1838, art. 3, 12 Stat. 1009;
treaty with *CostaRica of July 10, 1851, art. 2, 10 Stat. 917;
treatT- with Greece of December, 1837, art. 1, 8 Stat. 498;
treaty with, Sweden and Norway of July 4, 1827, art. 1, 8
Stat. 346.
The right or privilege being conferred by the treaty, parties
seeking to enjoy it take whatever steps are necessary to carry
the provisions into effedt. Those who wish to engage in commerce enter our ports with their ships and cargoes; those who
wish to reside here select their places of residence, no congressional legislation being required to provide that they shall
enjoy the rights and privileges stipulated. All that they can
ask, and all that is needed, is such legislation as may be necessary to protect them in such enjoyment. That they have, I
think, to some extent, in the clause punishing any conspiracy
to prevent or hinder by force the execution of a law of the
United States. The section in which this clause appears is a
reenactment in part of the act of July 31, 1861, and declares,
among other things, a conspiracy of two or more persons to
overthrow by force the Government of the United States, or
to oppose by force its authority, or "by force to prevent, hinder, or delay the execution of any law of the United States,"
or by force to seize and possess any of their property against
their authority, to be a high crime, and prescribes for it severe
punishment. As thus seen, the section is not intended as a

BALDWIN v. FRANKS.
Dissenting Opjnion: Field, J.

protection against isolated or occasional acts of individual per-,
sonal violence. For such offences the laws of the states makeample provision. It is, intended to reach con&iacties against
the supremacy and authority of the Government of the United
States, and against the enforcement of its laws. .It is directed
not only against those who conspire to overthrow the goternment, but those also who conspire to defeat the execution of
its laws, including under the latter treaties as well as statutes,
and thus permanently deprive others of the rights, benefits,
and protection intended to be conferred by such laws. In the
case before us, the purpose of the alleged conspirators was to
permanently deprive the Chinese residing in Nicolans - not
any particular Chinese, but all of that class of persons- of the
right of residence conferred by the treaty. That right, is not
limited to any particular place; it may be exercised wherever
it is lawful for any one to reside without encroachment upon
the equal right of others. The conspirators well knew, as every
one in California knows, the provision of the treaty and its
meaning, and their purpose was to nullify and defeat it.
A treaty, in conferring a right of residence, requires no congressional legislation for the enforcement of that right; the
treaty in that particular is executed by the intended beneficiaries. They select their residence. They are not required, as
said above, to reside in any particular place, or do business
there. A conspiracy to prevent by force a residence in the
town or county selected by them appears to me, therefore, to
be a conspiracy to prevent the operation - that is, the execution -of a law of the United States, and to be within the
letter and spirit of the third clause of § 5336. If the conspirators can expel the Chinese from their residence in the town
and county of their. selection without being amenable to any*
law of the United States, they can, with like exemption from
legal liability, expel the Chinese from the entire state, and
thus utterly defeat the stipulations of the treaty.
So, also, a conspiracy to prevent by force ships beloiging to
subjects of a foreign nation - not any particular ship, but ships.
generally belonging to them- from entering, our ports with
their cargoes would, in my judgment, be a conspiracy to preVOL. cxx--45

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

vent by force the operation of the treaty- with that nation,
which stipulates that its, subjects shall have that privilege.
And in all other cases where a clause of a treaty conferring
rights or privileges operates by its own terms and does not require congressional legislation to give it effect, a conspiracy to
prevent by force their enjoyment is a conspiracy to prevent by
force the execution of a law of the United States; that is, to
prevent its having, with respect to the rights and privileges
stipulated, any effectual operition. I do not see how Cofigresscould improve the matter, or do more than it has already
done, by declaring that those who thus conspire 'by force to
deprive parties of the rights or privileges conferred by a treaty
should be punished. Its declaration to that effect would be no
more than what the present law provides.
The last clause of § 5508 declares that-"if two or more persons go in disguise on the highway,: or on the premises of
another, with intent to prevent or hinider the free exercise or
enjoyment of any right or privilege so secured, [by the Constitution or laws of the United States,] they shall be. fined not
more than five thousand dollars, and imprisonid not more than
ten years; and shall, moreover, be thereafter ineligible to any
office or plac6 of honor, profit, or trust created by the Constitution or laws of the United States."
I do not agree with the, majority' of the court that this
clause is limited in its apiplicatioh only to offences against bitizens. The first clause of the section is thus limited, but, in my
judgment, the last is more extensive, and reaches an invasion
of the premises of any one, whether 'citizen-or alien, by two or
more persons for the unlawful purposes mentioned. But I am
not clear that the qualification of going "in disguise" on the
highway does not also extend to the going on the premises of
another - and thus render the clause inapplicable to the case
before the court; though there is much force in the view of
Mr. Justice Harlan, that the clause should'be" read as though:
its words were: "If two or more persons go on the highway
in disguise, or on the premises of another, with the intent,"
'&c., thus making the words "in disguise" apply only to the
oftence on the highway. If his view be correct, the last pro-

VITERBO. v.- FRIEDLAZDER.
S3)labus.

vision of the clause would describer the exact offence charged
against the plaintiff in error and his co-conspirators -that
they went on the premises of the Chinese with the intent to
deprive them of rights and privileges conferred by the
treaty

-the

law of the land -an

intent which they carried

out by forcibly expelling the Chineso from the town and
county of their residence aud business. But without adopting
or rejecting his view, I prefer to place my dissent upon what
I deem the erroneous. construction by the court of the third

clause of § 5336, in holding that it does not cover this case,
but applies only to cases where there has been a forcible resistance to measures adopted by Congress for the execution of a
law, or a treaty of the United States.
The result of the decision is, that there is no national law
which can be invoked for the protection of the subjects of
China in their right to reside and do business in this country,
notwithstanding the language of the treaty with that empire.
And the same result must follow with reference to similar
rights and privileges of the subjects or citizens resident in this
country or any other nation with which we have a treaty with
like stipulations. Their only protection against any forcible
resistance to the execution of these stipulations in their favor
is to be found in the laws of the different states. Such a
result is one to be deplored.

VITERBO v'. FRIEDLANDER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Submitted March 7,1886.-Decided March 21, 1887.

The Civil Code of Louisiana, following the civil law of Rome, Spain, and
France, and differing from the common law, regards a lease for years
as a mere tiansfer of the thing 1ased; and holds the landlord bound,
without any express covenant, to keep it in repair and otherwise fit for
the use for which it is leased, even When the want of repair or the
unfitness is caused by an inevitable accident; and if he does not do so,
authorizes the tenant to have the lease annulled or the rent abated.

