CASES -ADJUDGED
3H TIM

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OTOI6 ER TERM, 1886.

WILDENHU.S'S
APPEAT

FROM TIHE

CIRCUIT COURT

THE DISTRICT OF

CASE.
OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

NEW JERSEY.

Argued December 7, 1886.-Decided January 10, 1887.1

A Circuit Court of the United States has jurisdiction to issue a writ of
habeas corpus to determine whether one of the crew of a foreign vessel in a port of the United States, who is in the custody of the state
authorities, charged with the commission of a crime, within the port,
against the laws of the state, is exempt from local jurisdiction under
the provisions of a txeaty between the United States and the foreign
nation to which the vessel belongs.
Unless exempted by treaty, a foreign merchant vessel, entering a port of
the United States for purposes of trade, is subject to the local law, and
the local courts may punish for crimes committed upon the vessel, within the port, by one foreigner upon another foreigner.
Article XI of the Convention between Belgium and the United States of
March 9, 1880, 21-Stat. 781, conferring power upon Belgian consuls in
the United States to take cognizance of differences between captains,
officers, and crews of Belgian merchant vessels which are in ports of
the United States, and providing that the local authorities shall not interfere except when a disorder arises of such a nature as to disturb tranquillity or public order on shore or in the port, does not apply to a case of
I The docket title of this case was "No. 1288. Charles Mali, Consul of
His Majesty the King of the Belgiaus, and Joseph Wildenhus, Gionviennie
Gobnbosich, and John J. Ostenmeyer, Appellants, v. The Keeper of the
Common Jail of Hudson County, New Jersey."
VOL. Cxx-1

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.
felonious homicide committed on board of a Belgian merchant vessel in
a port of the United States, and does not deprive the local authorities
of the port of jurisdiction over such a crime so committed by one Belgian upon the person of another Belgian, both belonging to the crew of
the vessel.
THIS appeal brought up an application made to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of New Jersey,
by Charles Mali, the "Consul of His Majesty the King of the
Belgians, for the States of New York and New Jersey, in the
United States," for himself as such consul, "and in behalf of one
Joseph Wildenhus, one Gionviennie Gobnbosich, and one John
J. Ostenmeyer," for the release, upon a writ of habeas corpus,
of Wildenhus, Gobnbosich, and Osteineyer from the custody
of the keeper of the common jail of Hudson County, New
Jersey, and their delivery to the consul, "to be dealt with
according to the law of Belgiun." Th e facts on which the
application rested were thus stated in the petition for the writ:
"Second. That on or about the sixth day of October, 1886,
on board the Belgian steamship Noordland, there occurred
an affray between the said Joseph Wildenhus and one Fijens,
wherein and whereby it is charged that thd said Wildenhus
stabbed with a knife and inflicted upon the said Fijens a mortal wound, of which he afterwards died.
" Third. That the said Wildenhus is a subject of the Kingdom of Belgium and has his domicil therein, and is one of the
crew of the said steamship Noordland, and was sueh when
the said affray oc-iirred.
"'Fourth. That the said Fijens was also a subject of Belgium
and had his domicil and residence therein, and at the time of
the said affray, as well as at the'time of his subsequent death,
was one of the crew of the said steamship.
"_Fifth. That at the time said affray occurred the said
steamship Noordland was lying moored at the dock of the
port of Jersey City, in said state of New Jersey.
"Sixlht. That the said affray occurred and ended wholly
below the deck of the said steamship, and that the tranquillity
of the said port of Jersey City was in nowise disturbed or
endangered thereby.

WILDENHUS'S CASE.
Statement of,Facts.

That said affray occurred in the presence of several witnesses all of whom were and still are of the crew of-the
said vessel, and that no- other person or persons except those
of the crew of said vessel were present or near by.
"EUig th. Your petitioner therefore respectfully shows unto
this honorable court that the said affray occurred outside of
the jurisdiction of the said state of New Jersey.
"VKinth. But, notwithstanding the foregoing facts, your
petitioner respectfully further shows that the, police authorities of Jersey City, in said state of New Jersey, have arrested
the said Joseph Wildenhus, and also-the said Gionviennie
Gobnbosich and John X. Ostenmeyer, of the crew of the said
vessel (one of whom is a quartermaster thereof), and that said
Joseph Wildenhus has been committed by a police magistrate,
acting under the authority of the said sthte, to the common
jail of the county of Hudson, on a charge of an indictalle
offence under the laws of the said state of New Jersey, and is
now held in confinement by the keeper of the said jail, and
that the others of the said crew arrestedas aforesaid are also
detained in custody and confinement as witnesses" to testify in
such proceedings as may hereafter be had against the said
Wildenhus."
ARTICLES 8, 9, and 10 of a royal decree of the King of the
Belgians, made on the 11thl of March, 185T, relating to consuls
and consular jurisdiction, were as follows: I
"Seventh.

I ArT. S.

Nos consuls ont le droit de discipline sur les navires de com-

merce belges dans tons les ports et rades de leur arrondissement.
En mati~re de dflits ou de crimes, Us font les actes d'instruction, conform6ment aux prescriptions du Code disciplinaire et p6nal de la marine
marchande.

Ils r~clament, aux termes des conventions on des lois en vigneur, ,e concours des autorit6s locales pour rarrestation et la remiSe . bord des marins
dserteurs.
AnT. 9. Hors le cas ofi la tranquillit6 du port aurait 6t compromise par
l'Wv-nement, le consul r~clamera contre toute tentative que ferait r'autoritA
locale, de connaitre des crimes ou d6lits commis, Abord d'un navire beige,
par un homme de l'6quipage euvers uu hommb soit du mme 6quipage, soit
de '6quipage d'n autre navie beige.
II fera les d6marches convenables pour obtenir que la connaissance de
l'aflaire lui soit remise Iafln qt'elle soic ult6rieurement jug~e d'apr~s les

lois beiges.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

"ART. 8. Our consuls have the iight of discipline on Belgian
merchant vessels in all the ports and harbors of their district.
"In matters of offences or crimes they are to -make the
examination conformably to the instructions of the disciplinary and penal code of the merchant service.
"They are to claim, according to the terms of the conventions and laws in force, the assistance of the local authorities
for the arrest and taking on board of deserting seamen.
"ART. 9. Except in the case where the peace of the port
shall have been compromised by the occurrence, the consul
shall protest against every attempt that the local authority
may make to take cognizance of crimes or offences committed
on board of a Belgian vessel by one of the ship's company
towards one, either of the same company, or of the company
of another Belgian 'vessel.
"He shall take the proper steps to have the cognizance of
the case turned over to him, in order that it be ultimately
tried according to Belgian laws.
"Aar. 10. When men belonging to the company of a Belgian vessel shall be guilty of offences or crimes out of the ship,
or even on board the ship, but against persons not of the company, the consul shall, if the local authority arrests or prosecutes them, tale the necessary steps to have the Belgians so
arrested treated with humanity, defended and tried impartially."
The application in this case was made under the authority
of these Articles.
ARTiCLE XI of a Convention between the United States and

Belgium "concerning the right.;, privileges, and innunities of
consular officers," concluded March 9, 1880, and proclaimed
by the President of the United States, March 1, 1881, 21 Stat.
776, 781, is as follows:
"The respective consuls-general, consuls, vice-consuls, and
AnT. 10. Lorsque les hommes appartenant Al'6quipage d'un navire belge
se rendent coupables de d~lits ou de crimes hors du navire, ou meme & bord
d . navire, mais eivers des persounes 6trangbres a 1'6quipage, le consul, si
l'autorit6 locale les arrte ou procde contre eux, fera les d6marches n6cessaires pour que les Belges ainsi arr&t6s soienttrait~s avechumanit, d6feudus
et jL.g~s impartialement. RIglements Consulaires, Bruxelles, 1857, page 70.

WILDENHUS'S CASE.
Argument for Appellants.

consular agents shall have exclusive charge of the internal
order of the merchant vessels of their nation, and shall alone
take cognizance of all differences which may arise, either at
sea or in port, between the captaifis, officers, -and crews, without exception, particularly with reference to, the adjustment
of wages and the execution of contracts. The local authorities shall not interfere, except when the disorder that has
arisen is of such a nature as to disturb tranquillity and public
order on shore, or in the port, or when a person of the country
or not, belonging to the crew, shall be -concerned therein.
"In all other cases, the aforesaid authorities shall confine
themselves to lending aid to the consuls and vice-consuls or
consular agents, if they are requested by them to do so, in
causing the arrest and imprisonment of any person whose
name is inscribed on the crew list, whenever, for any cause,
the said officers shall think proper."
The claim of the consul was, that, by the law of nations,
and the provisions of this treaty, the offence with which Wildenhus was charged is "solely cognizable by the authority of the laws of the Kingdom of Belgium," and that the
State of New Jersey was without jurisdiction in the premises.
The Circuit Court refused to deliver the prisoners to the consul and remanded them to the custody of the jailer. 28 Fed.
Rep. 924. To reverse that de,ision this appeal was taken.
.l>. F. R. Coudertand _311.Edward -. Jones for appellants.
I. The offence in question in this case is exclusively cognizable by the authority of the Kingdom of Belgium. (1) Under
the general rules of international law, to which the practice of
the United States conforms; and (2) By virtue of treaties
between the United States and Belgium.
Mr. Wheaton, in his work on International Law, says:
"International law, as understood among civilized nations,
may be defined as consisting of those rules of conduct which
reason deduces, as consonant to justice,,fron? the nature of the
society exiisting anopg independent nations, with such definitions and modifications as may be established by general con-

OCTOBER. TERM, 1883.
Argument for Appellants.•

sent."

Wheat. Tt. Law (Dana's ed.), § 14; see also Halleck,

Int. Law, 42; I Kent Com. 3. The sources and evidence of
international law, aside from written conventions and treaties,

are the tect-writers of authcr'ity,showing what is the approved,
usage of nations, or the general opinion respecting their mutual
conduct, with the definition's and modifications introduced 'by
general consent.. Wheat. Int. Law (Dana's ed.), § 15; 1 Kent
Com. 18, 19. This "law of nations" is a part of the law of
the land, and is obligatory upon the courts of the United
States. The Amelia, 1 Cranch, 1; S. C.4 :Dall. 34; Tho
Charming Betsy, 2 Cranch, 04, 118; The iYereide, 9 Cranch,
388; The -Estrella, 4 Wheat. 298; Hfolmes v. Jennison, 14
Pet. 540, 569; Hfenfleld's Case, Whart. St. Tr. 49-66. The
general rule is well established, that the vessels of a nation are
to be considered as a part of its territory, and the persons on
board of them are deemed, to be within the jurisdiction of such
nation, and are protected and governed by the laws of the country to which such vessel belongs. Vattel Law of Nations,
Book 1, c. 19, § 216; Wheat. Int. Law, 3d ed. 157; Wheat.
Int. Law (Dana's ed.) § 106; 1 Kent .Com. 26; Crapo v.
-Ylly,'16 Wall. 610; In,re _A Sing, 13 Fed. Rep. 286; Poison
Int. Law, 25; 1 MassO Droit Commercial, 421, 423; 1 Ortolan
Diplomatie de la Mer, 4th ed., Paris, 1864, 252, 292; ilalleck
Int.Law, 172, 173; 1 De Clerq et de Vallat Guide Pratique des
Consulats, 366; 2 De Clerq Formulaires des Chancelleries, 65;
1 Requelino Derecho Internacional, 243, 245.
The doctrine of the general international law is also in
accordance with the established prlactice of the United St.tes.
In cemmenting on the cases of The _Newton and The Sally
referred to by M. Mass6 , M. Ortolan very forcibly and pertinently observes: " These two cases are interesting from
another point of view, which shows that the Americans, contrary to the: opinion of one of their writers on international
law, Mr. Wheaton, claim national jurisdiction of offences committed on board of their merchant vessels in a foreign port,
when these offences have taken place only between the men of
the crew, and the tranquillity of the port has not been broken;
in other words, this maritimepower adopts-he same Triciples
that we d."

WILDENHUS'S CA SE.
Argument for Appellants.

The actiot of our goyernmeit, through its consuls at Ahtwerp and Marseilles, in the cases of Tie Newton and The Sally,
in 1806, was soon afterwards followed by legislation affirming
the principle of international law, declared and assented to by
the two'nations in those capes. The'Crimes Act of March 3,
1825, c. 65, 4 Stat. 115, 116, after defining certain crimes committed at sea and other places within the admiralty jurisdiction of the United States, proceeds as follows:
"Sec. 5. And be it further enacted, that if any Offence shall
be committed on board of any ship or vessel, belonging to any
citizen or citizens of the United States,.whil lying in aportor
place within the jurisdiction of any foreign state or sovereign,by any person belonging to the company of said ship, or any
passenger, on any other person belonging to the company of
said ship, or any other passenger, the same offence shall b3
cognizable and punishable by the proper Circuit Couirt of the
United States, in the same way and manner, and under the
same circumstances, as if said offence had been committed on
board of such ship or vessel on the high seas, and without the
jurisdiction of such foreign sovereign or state; ._provided,
alway , That if such offender shall be tried for such, offence,
and acquitted or.convicted th6reof, in .any competent courb of
such foreign - state or sovereign, he shall not be subject to
a'other trial in'any court of the United States."
The act of 1825 is carried into the present Revised Statutes,
and the section here referred to reproduced in §§ 730, 5339,
and 5345 of the latter. Since the passage of the act of 1825,
numerous convictions have been had. in Federal courts for
crimes committed on board American vessels in foreign ports.
See, among others, United State v. Stevens, 4 Wash. C. C.
547; United States v. Seagrist, 4 Blatchford, 420; United
States v. Bennett, 3 Hughes, 466. In the case last cited, the
rule is explicitly asserted that "the law of the United States
follows an American vessel wherever she may be on navigable
waters, so that an offence committed on board such vessel is
an offence against the United States, thwug[l the vessel be in a
harbor or river of a foreign country."
The act of 1825 was followed in 1833 by the following in-

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Argument for Appellants.

structions issued by Mr. Livingston, as Secretary of State,
to the consuls of the United Siates in foreign countries. "Art.
36. Where piracy, mutiny, or any other offence against the

laws. of the United States shall-have been committed on board
of any vessel of the Uhited States coming into the consular
district, it is the duty of the consul, after taking the depositions necessary to establish the facts, to apply to the local authorities for means of securing the offenders while they remain
in port, and to provide the means of sending them, without
delay, to the United States for irial; and in all such cases
where the vessel, on board which the offence was committed,
is not bound to the United States, the consul is directed to
procure two of the principal witnesses to be sent home with
the person accused; and he is, at the same time, to transmit
certified copies of all the depositions he has taken in relation
to the offence; an exact detail of all its circumstances; and
such information as may be-necessary to secure the conviction
of the offenders." Consular Regulations of March 2, 1833.
See also for the Diplomatic action of the government, Mr.
Webster to Lord Ashburton, August 1,,1842.
II. The offence in question is exclusively cognizable by the
authority of Belgium by virtue of treaties existing between
that -country and the United States. The provision of the
treaty under which this proceeding is brought is as follows:
.AnTiLE XI. - The respective consuls-general, consuls, viceconsuls, and consular agents shall have exclusive charge of the
internal order of the merchant vessels of their nation, and shall
alone take cognizance of differences which may arise, either at
sea or in port, between the captains, officers, and crews, without
exception, particularly in reference to the adjustment of wages
and the execution of contracts. The local authorities shall
not interfere, except when the disorder that has arisen is of
such a nature as to disturb tranquillity and public order on
shore, or in the port, or wtien a person of -the country or not
belonging to the crew, shall be concerned therein."
As the Kingdom of Belgium, in its language, laws, and political history, is so intimately connected with the late Kingdom and present Republic of. France, it -may be useful, in

WILDENHUS'S CASE.
Argument for Appellants.

order to arrive at a proper interpretation of the meaning of
this article of the Belgian treaty, to recur to similar pr6visions
to be found in the treaties of France with the United States.
The earliest provision upon the subject in question in a treaty
to which the United States was a party, is to be found in the
8th Article of the treaty, between this country and France, of
November 14,1'88. That Article is as follows:
"ARTICLE VIII. - The consuls or vice-consuls shall exercise police over all *thevessels of their respective nations, and
shall have on board the said vessels all power and jurisdiction
in civil matters in all the disputes which may there arise; they
shall have an entire inspection over the said vessels, their
crew, and the changes and substitutions there to be madL; for
which purpose they may go on board the said vessels whenever
they may judge it necessary. Well understood that the functions hereby allowed shall be confined to the interior of the
vessels, and that they shall not take place in any case, which
shall have any interference with the police of the ports where
the said vessels shall be."
The same provision was in substance reenacted by the
treaty between the, United States and France, of February 23,
1853, in the 8th .Article. In every substantial respect these
treaties correspoid with the Belgian. In commenting upon
the French treaties relative t6 the subject in question, M. Ortolan says:
"Various public treaties contain special clauses relative to
the right of police, and of jurisdiction on Frenci merchant
vessels in foreign ports. Notwithstanding differences in the
wording, the most important and recent are drawn ir accordance with the spirit of the preceding principles; that is to say,
in the sense of a distinction to be made between crimes or
offences which do not extend beyond the interior and between
men of the crew of the vessel, andthose which concern the
police of the port and compromise its tranquillity. Such was
already in 1788 the, convention of the 14th November between
France and the United States." Ortolan Diplomatie de la
Mer, 4th ed., p. 278.
M. Mass6, in the passage above referred to, says: "A dis-

OCTOBER TERM1,

1886.

Argument for Appellants.

tinction is to he made bet*een crimes and offences which' disturb the order of the place where the foreign vessel is, and
those which disturb only tMe internctal order of the e-ip - Eet
ceux qui ne portent atteinte qu'A l'ordre intirieur du bdtimnent]. The former belong to the territorial jurisdiction; the
latter are cognizable only by the nation to whict belongs the
vessel or the fla." ]urther on, in speaking- of the cases of
Th _YNewton and Die Sally, after referring to crimes that affect
the i'6ice of the port, he says: "It is otherwise in case of
offences committed on board of the foreign vessel by a man
of the crew against another man of the same crew, because it
concerns the internal discipline of the vessel - [parce qu'il
s agit alors de la disci.line ;Mtereure dtu vaisseau]- in which
the local authority should not interfere when its assistance is
not called for, or the tranquillity of the port is not broken."
See also Dana's Note to Wheaton, §§ 95, 153; and for the
principles for construing treaties see United States v. Payne,
8 Fed. Rep. 883; Jfauenstein v. Lyniam, 100 U. S. 483.
Since this class of treaties has been concluded, some modifications have been made in the instructions to consuls. See
Consular Regulations of 1814, % 172-175, 194-196. These
show that the rule of general international law, originally
laid down in the cases of The .tewton and The Saly, and asserted in this case, is considered by the United States as being
embodied in all the recent treaties with foreign nations, in
which the present treaty with Belgium is included.
If this be not so, then the United States has receded from
its position in the cases of The Jiewton and The Sally, and re-pudiated the act of 1825, and A ticle 36 of the Consular
Regulations of. 1833. There is no evidence to show such
recession and repudiation. On the contrary, the tendency of
the whole history of, the government has been in the direction of enlarging and extending the immunities and exemptions of its citizens from the authority of foreign nations.
The attitude and action of the executive department of the
government upon questions of foreign relations furnishes a
rule for observance by th6. judicial department, and in all
cases that may arise with regard to questions of international

WILDENI-US'S CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

law it is the duty of the courts to adopt the determinatioi of
the other branch of the government upon such, questions a's
the basis of their decisions. Umited States - v.-Pa wr, 3
Wheat. 610, 634; The Divina Pastora,4 Wheat. 52, 63; The
Santssina T,'inidad, 7 Wheat. 283, 337; froster v. YTeilswn,
2 P et. 253, 307. See also the able review of the decision
of the Supreme Court of New York in the McLeod case,
written by Judge Tallmadge and published in the Appendix
to 26 Wendell, 663, 684.
.1!>. Coudert and .fr. Jones also argued that the Federal
courts had power to release the prisoners by'writ of ka73eas

o :pus.

.Ak. C. ff.

..

in)feld for appellee.

MR. CnIF J1STIE WAITE, after stating the case as above
-reported, delivered the opinion of the court.

By § 751 and '53 of the Revised Statutes the -courts of the
United States have power to issue writs of 'habeas eoqou,
which shall extend to prisoners in jail when they are in ,, custody in violation of the Constitution or a law or treaty of th
United States," and the question- we'hax'e to consider is,
whether these prisoners are held in violation of the provisions
of the existing treaty between the United States and Belgimn:
It is part of the law of civilized nations that when a mrchant vessel of oDe counti'y enters the ports of another for
the purposes of trade, it subjects itself io the law of the place
to which it goes, 'unless by treaty or otherwisb the two ioun:
tries have come to some different unde&standing or agreement; for, as was said by Chief' Justice. Marshall in Tie
Exehanye, 7 Cranch,' 116, 144, "it would be'.obviously inconvenient and dangerous' to societ , and( would bubject the laws
to continual infraction, and the government to degradation, if
such . . . merchants did not owe tempordr§ and lcal
allegiance, and were not amenable'to "the jurisdiction f , the
country."
United Stcites v. _Diekdnma, 92 U. S. 520; 1 'Philhlimore's int. Law, 3d ed. 483, § 351 ; T'iviss' Lawof Nations

OCTOBER TERMi

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

in Time of Peace, 229, § l59.; Oreasy's Int. Law, 167, § 176;
Halleck's Int. Law, 1st ed. 171. And the English judges have
uniformly recognized the rights of the courts of the .country
of which the port is part to punish crimes committed by one
foreigner on another in a foreign merchant ship. Regina v.
Cunningham,Bell 0. 0. 72; . C. 8 Cox 0. C. 104; Regina v.
Anderson, 11 Cox C.C.198, 20 1; . C. L. R. 1 C.0. 161, 165 ;
Regina v. Keyn, 13 Cox C. C.403, 486, 525; S. C. 2 Ex. Div.
63, 161, 213. As the ow-ner has voluntarily taken his vessel
for his own private purposes to a place within the dominion of
a government other than his own, and from which he seeks
protection during his stay, he owes that government such allegiance for the time being as is due for the protection to
which he becomes entitled.
From experience, however, it was found long ago that it
would be beneficial to commerce if the local government would
abstain from interfering with the internal discipline of the
ship, and the general regulation of the rights and duties of
the officers and crew towards the vessel or among themselves.
And so by comity it came to be generally understood among
civilized nations that all matters of discipline and all things
done on board which affected only the vessel or those belonging to her, and did not involve the peace or dignity of the
country, or the tranquillity of the port, should be left by
the local government to be dealt with by the authorities of the
nation to which the vessel belonged as the laws of that nation
or the interests of its commerce should require. But if crimes
are committed on board of a character to disturb the peace and
tranquillity of the country to which the vessel has been brought,
the offenders have never by comity or usage been entitled to
any exemption from the operation of the local laws for their
punishment, if the local tribunals see fit to assert their authority.
Such being the general public law on this subject, treaties and
conventions have been entered into by nations having commercial intercourse, the purpose of which was to settle and define
the rights and duties of the contracting parties with respect
to each other in these particulars, and thus prevent the inconvenience that might arise from attempts to exercise conflicting
jurisdictions.

WILDENHUS'S CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

The first of these conventions entered into by the United
States after the adoption of the Constitution was .with France,
on the 14th of November, 1188, 8 Stat. 106, "for the purpose
of defining and establishing the functions and privileges of
their respective consuls and vice-consuls," Art. 'VIHof which
is as follows:
"The consuls or vice-consuls shall exercise police over-all
the vessels of their respective nations, and shall have on board
the said vessels all power and jurisdiction in civil matters, in
all the disputes which may there arise; they.shall have an
entire inspection over the said vessels, their crew, and the
changes and substitutions there to-be made; for which purpose they may go on board the said vessels whenever they
may judge it necessary. Well understoed that the functions
hereby allowed shall be confined to the interior of the vessels,
and that they shall not take place in any case which shall have
any interference with the police of the ports where, the said
vessels shall be."
It was when this convention was in force that the cases 'of
TIe Sally.and TI'e iYewton; arose, an account of 3vhich is given
in Wheaton's Elements of International Law (3d ed.) 153, and
in 1 Phillimore's International Law (3d ed.) 48 and (2d ed.)
4_)T7. The Sally was an American merchant vessel in the port
of Marseilles, and The Newton a vessei of a similar character
in the port of Antwerp, then under the dominion of France.
In the case of The Sally, the mate, in the alleged exercise of
discipline over the crew, had inflicted a severe wound on one
of the seamen, and in that of -The 'Arewto one seaman had
made an assault on another seaman in the vessel's boat. In
each case the proper consul of the United States claimed
exclusive jurisdiction of the offence, and so did the local
authorities of the port; but thd-Council of State, a branch of
the political department of the gov~rnmnent of France to which
the matter was referred, pronounced against the local tribunals,
"considering that one of these cases was that, of an' assault
committed in the boat of the American ship N'ewtom, by one
of the crew upon another, and the 6ther was that of a severe
wound inflicted by the mate of the American ship S-idly upou

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

one of the seamen for having made use of the boat without
leave." This Was clearly because the things done were not
such as to disturb "the peace or tranquillity of the port."
Wheaton's Elements Int. Law 3d ed. 154. The case of The
Sally was simply a quarrel between certain of the crew while
constructively on board the vessel, and that of The iYewt,
grew out of:a punishment inflicted by an officer on one of the
crew for disobedience of orders. Both were evidently of a
character to affect only the police of the vessel, and thus
within the authority expressly granted to the consul by the

treaty.
No other treaty or convention bearing on this subject, to
which our attention has been called, was entered into by the
United States until a treaty with Swdden and Norway, on the
4ih of September, 1816, 8 Stat. 232, wherm it was agreed, by
Art. 5, that: "The consuls and their deputies shall have the
right, as such, to act as judges and arbitrators in the differences which may arise between the captains and crews of the
vessels of the nation whose affairs are intrusted to their care.
The respective governments shall have no right to interfere in
matters of this kind, except, the conduct of the captain or crew
shall distiu'b the peace and tranquillity of the country in which
the vessel may be, or tbe consul of the place shall fed himself
obliged to resort to the interposition and support of the executive authority to cause his decision to be respected and maintained. It being, nevertheless, understood that this kind of
judgment or award shall not deprive the contending parties
of the right which they have, on their return, to recur to the
judicial authorities of their own country."
Substantially te same provision is found in treaties or conventions concluded with Prussia in-1 828, Art X, 8 Stat. 382;
with Russia in 1832, Art. VIII, id. 448; with Greece in 1837,
Art. XII, id. 504: with Hanover in 1840Art. VI, id. 556;
with Portugal also in 1840, Art. X, il. 564; wlth the Grand
"Duchfof Mfecldenburg-Schwerin in 1847, Art. IX, 9 Stat. 016;
with Oldenburg in 1847, id. .868; with Austria in 1848, Art.
IV, id. 946; with the Hanseatic Republics in 1852, Art. I,
10 Stat. 961; with the Two Sicilies in 1855, Art. XIX, 11 Stat.

WILDENHUS'S CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

650; with Denmark in 1861, Art.I, 13 Stat. 605; and with
the Dominican Republic in 1"867, Art. XXVI, 15 Stat. 487.
In a convention with New Grenada concluded in 1850 the
provision was this:
"They [the consuls, &c.] may cause proper order to be
maintained on board of vessels of their nation, and may decide on the disputes arising between the captains, the officers,
and the members of the crew, unless the disorders taking
place on board should disturb the public tranquillity, or persons not belonging to the crew or to the nation in whose service the consul is employed; in which case the local authorities
may interfere." Art. III, clause 8, 10 .Stat. 903.
Following this was a convention with France, concluded in
1853, 10 Stat. 996, Art YIII of which is as follows:
"The respective consuls-general, consuls, vice-consuls, or
consular agents, shall have exclusive charge of the internal
order of the merchant vessels of their nation, and shall alone
take cognizance of differences which may arise, either at sea
or in port, between the captain, officers, and crew, without exception, particularly in reference to the adjustment of wages
and the execution of -contracts. The local authorities shall
not, on any pretext, interfere in these differences, but shall
lend forcible aid to the consuls, when they may ask it, to
arrest and imprison all persons composing the crew whom
they may deem it necessary to confine. Those persons shall
be arrested at the sole request of the consuls, addressed in
writing to the local authority, and supported by an official
extract from the register of the ship or the list of the crew,
and shall be held, during the whole time of their stay in the'
port, at the disposal of the consuls. Their release shall be
granted at the mere request of the consuls made in writing.
The expenses of the arrest and detention of those persons shall
be paid by the consuls."
The same provision in substantially the same language was
embraced in a convention with Italy in 1868,Art. XI,15 Stat.
609 ; and in another with Belgium, also in 1868, Art. XI, 16
Stat. 761. This convention with Belgium continued in force
until superseded by that of 1880-81, under which the present
controversy arose.

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

The form of the provision found in the present convention
with Belgium first appeared in a convention with Austria concluded in 1870, Art. XI, 17 Stat. 827, and it is found now in
substantially the same language in all the treaties and conventions which have since been entered into by the United
States on the same subject. See the conventions with the
German Empire in 1871, Art. XIII, 17 Stat. 927; with the
-Netherlands in 1878, Art. XI, 21 Stat. 668; with Italy in 1881,
Art. I, 29 Stat. 832; with Belgium in 1881, as stated above;
and with Roumania the same year, Art. XI, 23 Stat. 714.
It thus appears that at first provision was made only for
giving consuls police authority over the interior of the ship
and jurisdiction in civil matters arising out of disputes or
differences on board, that is to say, between those belonging
to the vessel. Under this police authority the duties of the
consuls were evideitly confined to the maintenance of order
.and discipline on board. This gave them no power to punish
for crimes against the peace of the country. In fact, they
were expressly prohibited from interfering with the local
police in matters of that kind. The cases of Tkie Sally and
The lVewtom are illustrative of this position. That of Te
Sally related to the discipline of the ship, and that of -T71e
IMewton to the maintenance of order on board. In neither
case was the disturbance of a character to affect the peace or
the dignity of the country.
In the next conventions consuls were simply made judges
and arbitrators to settle and adjust differences between those
on board. This clearly related to such differences between
those belonging to the vessel as are capable of adjustment
and settlement by judicial decision or by arbitration, for it
simply made the consuls judges or arbitrators in such matters.
That would of itself exclude all idea of punishment for crimes
against the State which affected the peace and tranquillity of
the port4 but, to prevent all doubt on this subject, it was
expressly provided that it should not apply to differences of
that character.
Next came a form of convention which in terms gave the
consuls authority to cause pfoper order to be maintained on

WILDENHUS'S CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

board and to decide disputes between the officers and crew,
but allowed the local authorities to interfere if the disorders

taking place on board were of such a nature as to .disturb the
public tranquillity, and that is substantially all there is in the
convention with Belgium which we have now to consider.
This treaty is the law-which now governs the conduct of the
United States and Belgium towards each other in this particular. Each nation has granted to the other such local" jurisdiction within its own dominion as may be necessary to maintain
order on board a merchant vessel, but has reserved to itself
the right to interfere if the disorder on board is of a nature
to disturb the public tranquillity.
The treaty is part of the supreme law of the United States,
and has the same force and effect in New Jersey that it is
entitled to elsewhere. If it gives the consul of Belgium exclusive jurisdiction over the offence which it is alleged has
been colmnitted within the territory of New Jersey, we see
no reason why he may not enforce his'rights under the treaty
by writ of hiabeas eoipus in any proper court of the United
States. This being the case, the only important question left
for our determination is whether the thing which has been
done - the disorder that has arisen--on board this vessel is
of a nature, to disturb the public peace, or, as some writers
term it, the "public repose" of the people who look to the
state of New Jersey for their protection. If the thing done
"the disorder," as it is called in the treaty - is of a character to affect those on shore or in the port when it becomes
known, the fact that only those on the ship saw it when it
was done is a iiiatter of no moment. Those who are not on
the vessel pay no special attention to the mere disputes or
quarrels of the seamen while on board, whether they occur
under deck or above. Neither do they as a rule care for anything done on board which relates only to the discipline of
the ship, or to the preservation of order and authority. Not
so, however, with crimes which from their gravity awaken a
public interest as soon as they become known, and especially
those of a character which every civilized nation considers
itself bound to provide a severe punishment for when comVOL. CXX-2

OCTOBER TEhM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

mitted within its own jurisdiction. In such cases inquiry is
certain to be instituted at once to ascertain how or why the
thing was done, and the popular. excitement rises or falls -as
the news spreads and the facts become known. It is not alone
the publicity of the act, -orthe noise and clamor which attends
it, that fixes the nature of the crime, but the act itself. If
that is of a character to awaken public interest when it becomes known, it is a "disorder" the nature of which is to
affect the community at large, and consequently to invoke the
power of the local government whose people have been disturbed by what -was done. The very nature of such an act
is to disturb the quiet of a peaceful.community, and to create,
in the language of the treaty, a "disorder" which will "disturb tranquillity"and public order on shore or in the port."
The principle which'governs the whole matter is this: Disorders which disturb only the peace of the ship or those on
board are to be dealt with exclusively by the sovereignty of
the home of the ship, but those which disturb the public peace
may be suppressed, and, if need be, the offenders punished by
the proper .authorities of the local jurisdiction. It may not
be easy at all times to determine to'which of the two jurisdictions a particular act of disorder belongs. Much will undoubtediy depend on the attending circumstances of the particular
case, but all must concede that felonious homicide
is a subject
for the local jurisdiction, and that if the proper authorities
are proceeding with the case in a regular way, the consul has
no right to interfere to prevent it. That, according to the
petition for the habeas cOrpus, is this case.
This is fully in accord with he practice in France, where the
government has been quite as liberal towards foreign nations
in this particular as any other, and where, as we have seen in
the cases of The Sally and -:Te2ewton, by a decree of the
Council of State, representing the political department of the
government, the-French courts we- prevented frpm exercising
jurisdiction. But afterwards, in 1859, in the case of JadlY, the
mate of an American merchantman, who had killed one of
the crew and severely wounded another on board the ship, in
the port of Havre, the Court 6f Cassation, the highest,judicial

WILDENFUS'S CASE.
Opinion of the Court.

tribunal of France, upon full consideration held, while the
Convention of 1853 was in force, that the French courts had
rightful jurisdiction, for reasons which sufficiently appear in
the following extract from its judgment:
"Considering that it is a principle of the lIw of nations that
every state has sovereign jurisdiction throughout its territory;
1"Considering that by the terms of Article 3 of the Code
Napoleon the laws of police and safety bind all those who
inhabit French territory, and that consequently foreigners,
even traneunte, find themselves subject to those lawa;
"Considering that merchant vessels entering the port bf a
nation other than that to which they belong cannot be withdrawn from the territorial jurisdiction, in any case in which
the interest of the statd of wnich that porf-forms part finds
itself concerned, without danger to gooal order and to tfie
dignity of the government;
"Considering that every state is interested in the repression
of crimes and offences that may be committed in the ports of
its territory, not only by the men of the ship's company of a
foreign merchant vessel towards men not forming part of that
company, but even by men of the ship's company among themselves, whenever the act is of a nature to compromise'the tranquillity of the port, or the intervention of 'the -local authority
is invoked, or the act constitutes a crime by common law,'
(droit eommun, the law common to all civilized nations,) "the
gravity of which does not permit any nation to leave it unpun.ished, without impugning its rights of jurisdictional and territorial sovereignty, because that crime is in itself the most
manifest as well as the most flagrant violation of the lavs
which it is the. duty of,every nation to cause to be respected in
all parts of its territory." 1 1 Ortolan Diplomatie de la Mer
(4th ed.), pp. 455, 456; Sirdy (N.S.), 1859, p. 189.
The judgment of the Circuit Court isaflirmed.
I ,Attenda que c'est un principe du droit des gens que chaque ftat a Ia.
juridiction souveraine dans r6tendue de tout son territoire;
"Attendu qu'aux termes de P'article 3 du Code, Napol6on, leslois de
police et de siaret$ obligent tous ceux qui habitent le teritoire franais, et,
que, par suite, les 6trangers, minme transpuntesy s'y trouvent soumis;
-

