OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

4th. On the final argument to the jury, the counsel for the
prosecution alluded to the case as the most remarkable one
ever tried in the territory, and to "the many times it had been
brought before the tribunals." To this latter remark exception
was taken. Thereupon the remark was withdrawn" by the
counsel, and the court said to the jury that the case was to be
tried on the evidence, and that they were not to consider it
with respect to any previous trial, but only on the evidence
given on this trial. The counsel for the defendant now cbntends that this allusion was in conltravention of that section of
the act of the territory regulating proceedings in criminal
cases, which declares that "the granting of a new trial places
the parties in the same position as if no trial had been had,'
and that "all the testimony must be produced anew, and the
former verdict cannot be used or referred to either in evidence
or'in argument." (Laws of Utah of 1878, p. 126, § 311.) -The
object of this law was to prevent the accused from being prejudiced by reference to any former conviction on the same indictment. There Was, in fact, no reference to any verdict on a
previous trial, but merely a mention of the times the case had
been before the courts, so as to magnify its importance. If
allusions to previous trials, such as were here *made,were to
vitiate a subsequent trial, a new element of uncertainty would
be introduced into the administration of justice in criminal
cases. We do not see that the defendant was in any way
prejudiced by such reference. The fact that previous trials
had proved unavailing may perhaps have induced greater care
and caution on the part of the jury in the consideration of the
case.
The judgment of the court below is
fflrnwd-

_______

PLU=MMER v. SARGENT.
APPEAL

FROM' THE

cMCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTICT OF CONNECTICUT.

Argued January 10,11, 1887.-Delided March 7,1887.
The reissued letters-patent No. 2355, dated September 11, 1866, granted to
the Tucker'Manufacturing Company as assignee of Hiram Tucker, for

PLUMMER v. SARGEN'T.
Opinion of the Court.
an improved process of bronzing or coloring iron, and No. 2356, of like .
date and grantee for the product resulting from that'process, are in fact
for but one invention, and the new article of manufacture: called Tucker
bronze is a product which results from the use of the process described
in the patent, and not one which may be produced in any other way: and
they are not infringed by the manufacture, by the defendants, by the diferent process used by them, of an article which cannot be distinguished,
by mere inspection, from Tucker bronze.

Tmis was a bill in equity to restrain the infringement of
letters-patent.. 'Decree that the bill be dismissed, from which
the complainant appealed. The case is stated in the opinion
of the court.
,ALr. Elihk
appellant.

G. Loomis and Xr. James E. _faynadier for

X2f.: John _Y Beach and Mr. CMarles . XfitzeZfl for
appellees. .M'. John S. Beach was with them on the brief.
Yx. JUSTICEp

IATTrHEWS

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in.equity to restrain the alleged infringement
6f reissued letters-patent Nos. 2355 and 2356, dated September
11, 1866, granted to the Tucker XM'anufacturing Company, as
assignee of Hiram Tucker, and owned by the complainant;
the former being for an improved process of bronzing or coloring iron, the latter for the product resulting from that process.
The specifications in the reissued patent No. 2355 are as
follows:
"Metals have heretofore, been lacquered or bronzed by the
application of a solution of resin and metallic powders or salts,
and dried by exposure to air or heat. Iron has been japanned
by covering its surface with oily solutions of asphaltum and
pigments and subsequent application of heat sufficient to produce hardness. These are well known operations.
"My invention consists in a process of covering iron with
a very thin coating of oil, and then 'subjecting it to heat, the
effect of which is to leave upon the iron a firm film, which is
very durable, and gives the iron a highly ornamental appearance,'like that of bronze.
"In practice I proceed as follows: The surface of the iron

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

is cleansed from sand, scale, or other foreign matter, and
where fine effects are desired the surface is best made smooth
or polished. Under given conditions of heating and oiling the
finer the polish, the lighter is the bronze tint produced. In
cases where ornamentation is obtained by relief the salient
parts should be the most highly polished or most smoothly
surfaced in order that the color produced upon them shall not
be so deep as' it is on these parts which are in.the rear, so as
to imitate thereby more nearly the effects of genuine bronze,
in which its natural oxidation is apt to be worn somewhat
away from its salient parts, and therefore lighter in color.
"When the iron is thus prepared,, I cover it -with a very thin
coating of linseed oil, or any oil which is the'equivalenit therefor, for the purpose here specified (such a coating as I find
best attained by applying the oil with a trush, and then rubbing off the oiled surface thoroughly with a rag, sponge, or
other suitable implement), and then place it in an oven, where
it is submitted to a degree of heat which may be measured by
an intensity sufficient to change a brightened surface of clean,
unoiled iron to a color varying from a light straw color to a
deep blue, the lowest degree of heat producing the lightest
colored changes and the lightest bironze, and the highest
degree of heat producing the darkest colored changes and the
darkest bronze. It is important that the coating of oil be
made extremely thin, as a coating of any material thickness
will leave a rough or varied -surface after the heat is applied.
As the oiled iron becomes heated the color obtained will be
bronze, of an intensity corresponding to the degree of heat
employed; but it should be observed that the heat may be
made so intense and so long continued as to destroy the oil,
in which case the iron will lose the bronze tint acquired and
will assume the dark blue shade.
"The perfection of the results obtained under these instructions will of course depend, in a considerable degree, upon the
dexterity and watchfulness of the operator in applying the oil
and in regulating the heat.
"In practice I prefer to use boiled linseed oil. When the
desired shade of bronzing is obtained, the iron is removed from

PLUMMER v'. SARGENT.
Opinion of the Court..

the oven or furnace, and, if desired, may again be treated with
oil as before, .even if not cool, and then again submitted to the
action of heat, as described, and the operation of oiling and
heating may be repeated indefinitely, each repetition deepening the shade of the bronzing. I recommend that at each
repetition the degree of heat should be less than the degree
immediately before employed; and in oiling and heating more
than once I recommend for the second and succeeding oilings
the use of a dry hog-hair brush to take off the surplus oil.
The process may be carried to such an extent by repetition of
oiling and heating as to produce a very dark color; black even
may be thus produced.
"I have specially described linseed oil as preferred by me
for the practice of my invention because of its good drying
quality and its capacity of giving a good, uniform, smooth
filn when spread thinly upon the iron, as before described.
"Slight variations from the degree of heat-above mentioned
may be allowed without departing from the principlo of my
invention.
"What I claim and desire to secure by letters-patent
is the
process of ornamenting iron in imitation of bronze by the application of oil and heat, substantially as described."
Reissued patent No. 2356 is for a new article of manufacture,
but the descripti6n of the method is the same as that contained
in the specifications in the patent for the process; the claim,
however, being as follows: "What I claim and desire to secure
by letters-patent is the new manufacture hereinabove described,
consisting of iron ornamented in imitation of bronze by the
application of oil and heat, substantially as described."
These two reissues were based upon the surrender of a prior
original patent, dated December 15, 1863, covering lioth claims.
These reissued patents were the subject of litigation before
M[r. Justice Clifford in Tucker v. The Tucker .Xlanufacnt ng
Co rnpany, 4 Clifford, 397, and before Judge Lowell in Tucker
v. Burditt, 5 Fed. Rep. 808, and Tucker v. -Dana,7 Fed.
iRep. 213. The decree below was in favor of the defendants
on the ground that there was no infringement. Tucker v.
Sargent & Co., 19 Blatchford, 538. The infringement alleged

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

was in the matiufacture and sale of cast-iron butts, samples of
which were produced and marked as exhibits. These ar6
described in the opinion of "the Circuit Court; from whose
decree this appeal is prosecuted, as follows:
:'These butts are colored in this way: The sunken parts
are first covered .with a black japan, and this coat of 'blacking
is baked in an oven at a temperature not exceeding 320 degrees
Fahrenheit. Ths japanning of the sunken parts is immaterial.
It is not really claimed to be a Tucker bronzing. The object
probably is to make a marked contrast between the sunken
and salient parts of the butt. All but the sunken parts are
then ground and subjected to a heat-of 480 degrees Fahrenheit,
which colors the iron a dark straw color. The ground" parts
of one of the exhibits are nearly or quite blue. A coat -of
copal varnish of substantial thickness is then put on and
baked in a heat of not over 300 degrees Fahrenheit. This
produces a material coating of oxidized varnish upon the surface of the iron, which can be scraped up by a rapidly drawn
knife-blade as a shaving rolls up before the knife of a plane.
It was not claimed by the defendant that the varnish was not
oxidized by the heat. No proof was offered by the plaintiff
in regard to the oxidation of the iron during the second heating, and I do not think it of importance. The plaintiff relies
upon the uncontradicted fact that by successive applications
of heat the iron and varnish were oxidized, and if an iron surface oxidized by heat with a coating of varnish oxidized by
heat necessarily make Tucker bronze, then the defendant infringes the plaintiff's patents."
In order to determine the question of infringement it is
necessary to consider the state of the art at the date of the
patent. It appears from the evidence that one F. W. Brocksieper, in the employ of certain firms and companies, the
predecessors of the defendant, between 1849 and 1859, as a
foreman in the ornamental department of their work, in the
year 1857, introduced into the business a mode of treating hathooks, coat-hooks, jamb-hooks,, sash-fasteners, match-boxes,
looking-glass frames, and cast-iron horses for saddlers' windows, in the following way :

PLUMMABER v. SARGENT.
Opinion of the Court.

"We had the castings cast with a facing, so as to come out
of the sand very nearly entirely free of sand, then those castings rolled, drilled and countersunk, the highest parts or the
prominent parts of the ornaments brightened with sand-paper
or emery-paper, brushed clean from dust, then sized and
baked. In order to handle them easy,' those hooks, we had
them fastened on a block with a spring and sized them in
quantities as they were - oidered, let them stand long enough
so that the size would not stick to the fingers, then we put
them in pans, or on hooks, and put them in the kiln to bake.
The size was a. mixture of equal parts of 'turpentine, copalvarnish, and linseed oil, and was .applied in a very thin coat,
put on with a stiff, fine brush as lightly as he could. The
kiln was heated to 420 degrees Fahrenheit. Several batches
of hoolks of from twelve dozen to twenty-four dozen each, between one hundred dozen and two hundred dozen sashfasteners, about one hundred looking-glass frames, and horses
in 'considerable quantities,' were muade and sold. The matchboxes were probably made in larger quantities."
It was contended by the plaintiff that this process was not
the same as that covered by his patents, for two reasons: 1st,
because, as he claimed, the iron was not oxidized by the heat;
and, 2d, because the coating of size was too thick to make gennine Tucker bronze. The Circuit Court, in its opinion in this
case, agreed upon this point with the plaintiff, that the process
and article produced were different from those covered by the
plaintiff's patents, on the ground that the coating of baked size
over the iron was too thick, although it held that Brocksieper's
method must have resulted in oxidizing the iron. The inference
was that bright cast iron oxidized and covered with a coat of
oxidized oil, varnish, or size might be, but was not necessarily,
Tucker bronze. The latter 'roduct and process were defined
by that court in its opinion as follows:
" Tucker bronze is a new surface of the iron produced by the
joint oxidation or by the successive oxidations of the iron and a
film of oil or varnish thereon, by means of high heat, and is not
a new coating of oxidized oil or varnish upon the iron. The oil
must be applied in such a way that after oxidation there is no

OCTOBER TERAI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

substantial covering of baked oil upon the surface of the iron.
The surface of the iron is a bronzed surface, because the film of
the oil is so thin and is so closely united with the pores of the
iron as to be almost a part of it, and does not form a substantial covering like a coat of varnish over the surfa6c of the iron.
"In Tucker bronze'.which has been subjected to one heat,
the film of oil can with difficulty be scraped off with a knife.
When the iron has had two or three successive applications of
oil, and has been heated two or three times, the oil comes off
by scraping in the form of little flakes or of powder.
"Tucker's disc6very was, that bright cast iron, covered with
a thin film of oil, would take on, by the action of high heat, a
new surface resembling bronze."
It was found from the evidence that the defendant covered
the oxidized surface of iron with an oxidized coat of varnish,
doing no more than what Brocksieper did in 1857, except that
he did it in two successive stages instead of one, and for that
reason there was no infringement. Although there are two
patents, one for a process and the other for a product, there is
in fact but one invention; and it may be assumed that the new
article of manufacture called Tucker bronze is a product which
results from the use of the process described in the patent, and
not one which may be produced in any other way. So that,
whatever likeness may appear between the product of the
process described in the patent and the article made by the
defendants, their identity is not established unless it is shown
that they are made by the same process. The specimens
exhibited in the case, as made by Brocksieper, have not the
same external appearance as Tucker bronze; they are easily'
distinguished by inspection, and the process employed by
Brocksieper seems to differ from that of the Tucker patents
only in respect to the thickness of the sizing of oil or varnish
applied upon the surface of the iron, unless the peculiarity of
the Tucker bronze can be attributed to the fact that the thin
filnrof oil or varnish was applied upon.the surface of the iron
before the application of the heat, and not after. For, although
the patent contemplates and describes successive applications
of heat, yet in each case it is to an oiled surface of iron. On

PLUMMER v. SARGENT.
Opinion of the Court.

the other hand, the method employed by the defendants consists, first, in subjecting the cleansed surface of the iron to a
heat of 480 degrees Fahrenheit, sufficient to change its color
by oxidizing, and then applying a coat of copal varnish and
heating again to a point not in excess of 300 degrees Fahrenheit, which, while sufficient to harden and color the varnish by
what is called the process of oxidation, yet is not sufficient to
oxidize the iron itself. It is difficult, if not impossible, to distinguish by the eye the result of this process from Tucker
bronze made according to the patents, but the two processes
differ in the particulars pointed out; the effect in Tucker bronze
appearing to, be produced by the joint oxidation of the iro.
and the oil, while in the defendant's product the result is attained by successive heatings, first of the iron, and then of the
iron and oil, the heat, in the second step of the process, not
being sufficient to cause a joint oxidation of the iron and the
oil.
It seems necessarily to follow from this view either that the
Tucker patents are void by reason of the anticipation pracfised by Brocksieper, or that the patented process and product
must be restricted to exactly what is described, that is, to a
simultaneous and joint oxidation of the iron and the oil after
the application of the oil to a cleansed surface of cast iron.
To that extent the patents may be sustained, but -upon that
construction they do not include the process and product of
the defendants; there is consequently no infringement.
In opposition to this conclusion it.is contended, on the part
of the appellants, that the witnesses who testify to the
methods employed by Brocksieper in 1857 have cbnfounded
in their memory the actual facts .in regard to that method as
then practised with processes subsequytly employed, and
which could have been learned only after the issue of the
Tucker patent in 1863; and in coroborat'on of that criticsm
upon this evidence it is shown that -reproductions of the
Brocksieper method, made under the eye of the examiner by
a competent expert, during the progress of the taking of the
testimony, were not distinguishable in appearance from Tucker
bronze made according to the patents. We are not, however,
voL. cxx-29

OCTOBER TERM, -1886.
Statement of Facts:.

-

able to adopt that view of the evidence. The fact that by
careful workmanship the products are indistinguishable by
mere inspection does not establish the identity of the 'processes, and as the patent for the product must be limited to an
article made by the particular process, the inquiry must be
determined by a comparison between the methods 'actually
employed. As that used by the defendants differs from that
described in the patent, just as that employed by Brocksieper
does, the process of the defendants cannot be construed as an
infringement without at the same time declaring that used by
Brocksieper to be an anticipation.
The decree of the Circuit Court must, therefore, be
Affimed.

ROSEN-BAU-M v. BAUER.
ROSENBAUM

v. SAN FRANCISCO.

nD STATES FOR THE
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UN
OF
CALIFORNIA.
DISTRICT
Submitted Jauuary 17, 1887.-Decided

farc 7, 1887.

A Circuit Court of the United States cannot acquire jurisdiction, by removal from a state court, under § 2 of the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137
(18 Stat. 470) of an original proceeding to obtain a mandamus against
•the treasurer or the.board of supervisors of a city, to compel them to
take action, in accordance with a statute of the state, to pay the interest
or principal of bonds issued by the city.
Section 716 of the Revised Statutes, giving power to a Circuit Court to
issue all writs not specifically provided for by statute, which may be necessary for the exercise of its jurisdiction, and agreeable to the usages
and principles of law, construed in connection with §§ 1 aid 2 of the act
of 1875, operates to prevent the issuing by the Circuit Court of a writ of
mandamus, except in aid of a jurisdiction previously acquired by that
court.

THsE actions were commenced in a state court of Califor-

nia, were removed thence into the Circuit Court of the United
States on the plaintiff's motion, and were remanded to the

