OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Mames of Counsel.

superipr authority. The integrity and value of the judicial
system, as aai institution for the administration of- public and
private justice, rests largely upon this wholesome principle.
That principle has been disregarded in the present case by
the Supreme Court of Louisiana in failing to give due effect to
the decree of the Circuit Court of the United States as sufficient
evidence in support of the defence of the plaintiff in error in
this action, so far as it is an action for the recovery of damages
for a malicious prosecution.
Thejudgmwnt of the Supreme Court of louisianaon the bo d
itseof, for damages occasioned by its breach, against the
principal and surety, is not attacked in this proceeding.
i is so far afflrmed. .Butthat part which constitutes a
judgment against the Crescent City .Live-Stock Landing
and VSa.ughter-House Company solely, for damagesfor the
malicious prosecution, is reversed, -and the cause is remanded for further proceedings therein.not inconsistent
with this opinion; and it i so ordered.
LITTLE ROCK,AND FORT SVITH RAILWAY v. HUNTINGTON.
.- PFlr

FROM- THE
TE

CIROUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANqSAS.

Submitted January 6,1887.--Decided January 24, 1887.

A mortgage of a railroad and of lands granted by Congress to aid in its
construction to trustees, which directs the trustees to apply moneys
"arisingfrom the sale of the lands to the payment of the coupons attached,to ,the bonds secured by the mortgage, also authorizes them
t6 purchase therewith over-due coupons which have been cut from
those bonds and have been deposited with the trustees of the mortgage
for the purpose of securing scrip iisued to the holders of those coupons,
-with the object of extending the payment of the amount due on them
beyond the time of payment named in them.
'BILL

in equity. The case is stated in the opiniQn of the

court.

Mr. Williamr S. Rogers for appellant.
-Mfr. C. F Huntington for appellees.

LITTLE ROCK, &c., RAILWA:Y v. ,HUNTINGTON.- 1Q1
Opinion of the Court.

iMR. JusTnI

FiEnr delivered the opinion of the court.

The Little Rock and Fort Smith lpilway is a corporation
organized under the'laws of Arkansas, and the defendants are
citizens of -Massachusetts, and trustees under a mortgage or
deed of trust execut ed to them by the corporation on the 19th
of December, 1874. The bill is filed to enforce the performance of certain trusts devolving upon the defendants under
that instrument.
By the act of Congress of Xuly 28, 1866, a grant of land was,
made. to the State of Arkansas, to aid in the construction of a
railroad from Little Rock to Fort Smith.' The grant was of
ten alternate sections of land on each side of the road, with a •
right of way over land of the United Statea tathe width
of two hundred feet.
-By legislation of Arkansas, in 1869, the right to the lands
thus granted by Congress became vested in the Little Rock
and Fort Smith Railway Company. In December following,
that corporation executed a mortgage upon its road, equipm'ents, .franchises, and property to secure its bonds to be
issued thereunder to the amount of $3,500,000, and in June,
1870, it executed a second mortgage upon the same property
;to secure its bonds to be issued to the amount of five millions
of dollars. *The bonds were issued, but the company defaulted
in. their payment, and both mortgages were foredlosed, and
the property was sold under a decree of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Arkansas.
The purchasers at such sale, under a statute of Arkansa§,
organized thenvselves into a corporation, and adopted as their
corporate name that of the Little Rock and Fort Smith Railway, and became vested with all the rights, privileges, powers,
and franchises of the former corporation, together with the
lands granted to that company by .the acts of Congress. and
of the legislature of Arkansas.
This new company, the plaintiff herein, in order to provide
means for the completion and equipment of its road, and for
othe# purposeg, issued and negotiated a series of. bonds,
amounting in 'the aggregate to three millions of dollars,
VOL. Cxx-1

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

payable to bearer at the end of thirty years from January
1, 1874, with interest coupons payable semi-annually at
the rate of seven per cent. per' annum, free from any United
States tax. The bonds were issued in denominations of one
thousand dollars each, from No. 1 to 2000 inclusive, and in
denominations of five hundred dollars each, from numbers
2001 to 4000 inclusive. To secure their payment, principal
and interest, the company executed a mortgage, or deed of
trust, bearing date December 19, 1874, upon its road, franchises, rights, and lands, to the defendants, Hluntington and
Ripley, in trust, among other things, to apply the moneys
arising from the lands of the company, after deducting the
expenses of executing the trust, as follows:
1st, to the.payment of the coupons or inferest warrants attached to the bonds, as fast as they shall become due and payable, to the extent that the net earrnings from the business of
the road shall be insufficient for that purpose.
2d, to the purchasing and cancelling of such outstanding
bonds as can be -obtained,at their market value, not exceeding,
however, a premium of ten per cent.; and
3d, to the payment of such of the bonds as shall not have
been purchased in accordance with these provisions, when the
same shall become due and payable.
All the trust moneys coming to the trustees, not applied or
used in adcordance with the above provisions, were to be invested in United States securities, or, lent from time to time in
such manner as by the law of Mfassachusetts is permitted to
savings banks. The interest derived from such investments or
loans was to be applied by the trustees to the payment of the
bonds or coupons. '
The bill alleges that, after the execution of this mortgage,
the company completed its railroad from Little Rock to Fort
Smith, within the time, and in the manner required by the acts
of Congress and of Arkansas, and thereby became the owner
of 1,057,000 acres of land, as certified by the Secretary of th3
Interior to the state, all of which, and the proceeds of sales,
were subject to the trusts and charges imposed by the mortgage or deed of trust; that the corporation has disposed of all

ITTLE ROCK, &c., RAILWAY v.' IIUNTINGTON. 163
Opini6u ,of the Court.

the bonds authorized to be issued under the mortgage, but that
of the lands there still remain'unsold 623,000 acres; that, during the years 1877, 1878, and,1879, and the first six months of
the year 1880, the net earnings derived from the operation
of the road, even when united .vith the proceeds of the sales of
lands, were insufficient to meet the coupons or interest, warrants
attached to the bonds maturing on January 1, 1878, July I,
1878, January 1, 1879, July 1, 1879, and January 1, 1880;
atid thereupon an agreement was made between the-corporation and the holders of the bonds and,coupons. payable on
those dates, by which the holders surrendered, to the,defendants, trustees, the coupons, and the corporation issued to them
negotiable scrip or certificates by which it promised to pay the
trustees, or bearer, the amount of -the coupons surrendered, in
jen years from their maturity, with interest at the rate of seven
per cent. per annum, payable semi-annualy, the corporation
reserving the right to pay the scrip.'and interest at any time
previous to its maturity.,
'The. scrip or certificate also 'provided that the trustees should
hold the coupons surrendered, as collateral security for the paynent of the scrip thus issued therefor, and that the coupons
6hould not-be surrendered or cancelled until the -scrip should be
paid. The coupons maturing .on July 1, 1883,'and Janpary
1, 1884, were also unpaiaI,-and a similar arrangement was"
made with the holders of these coupons by the issue of scrip
for them; so that the whole amoufit of scrip issued for coupons
thus unpaid was S636,000.
The bill also alleges that out of the moneys received from
the sale -of the lands since the execution of- the mortgage, the
trustees have bought and cancelled bonds amounting to $536,-0,besides appropriating moneys to aid the corporation in"
paying the interest coupons attached to the bonds; that since
the year 1881 the trustees have appliedthe net proceeds of the
sales to the purchase and cancellation of the .bonds, and -no
part thereof to the purchase and cancellation of the said scrip,
or the coupons held bjr them as collateral security for the. pay-'
ment of that scrip; that for several years, the net' earnings_ of
the road have been more than sufficient to enable the corpo-

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

ration to pay its current coupons and the interest upon the
scrip; that the corporation has notified the trustees, that it
was no longer necessary to retain any portion of the'proceeds
of sales for the payment of the interest coupons to mature
hereafter; that the net earning of the road would, in all probability, be a~mple for that 'purpose, and, by reason of the increased earnings, will continue to be more than ample to pay
the coupons as they severally become due and payable; and
that the price of the bonds has greatly risen in value, and the
premium thereon has varied the past year from thirteen to seventeen per cent., so that under the mortgage the trustees are
no longer able to purchase such bonds, being limited by the
mortgage to the payment of ten per cent. premium.
The bill also alleges that 623,000 acres of the lands of the
company remain unsold , that the trustees hold contracts for
lands sold, upon which partial payments have beeif made, but
upon which deeds are not to be executed until the purchase
money and interest are fully paid, amounting in the aggregate
to more than the'sum of $428,691; and that in the ordinary
course of business, the trustees and their successors will have
large amounts of money from sales thereof, which must be
applied by them in accordance with the provisions of the
mortgage, and in the order of priority, before the moneys can
be invested, as provided therein; thht the trustees have refused
to apply any of the said money to the payment of the outstanding coupons for which the scrip mentioned was given;
-that such coupons draw interest at the rate of seven per cent..
and any investment of such moneyp by the trustees can only
be made so as to obtain a much smaller rate of interest, and
that, therefore, it would be greatly to the advantage of the
corporation, and to the bondholders, that such moneys should
be applied to taking up the outstanding coupons. The trustees, in their answer to the demand of the corporation that
the moneys be so applied, have expressed a willingness to so,
apply them, but they entertain doubts as to their authority so
to do, unless directed by order of the court.
The mortgage, as is seen by its terms, contemplates that
the proceeds of sales of lands shall be applied to the payment

LITTLE ROCK, &c.,, RAILWAY v. HIUiNTLNGTON. 165
Opinion of the Court.

of the interest coupons to the extent that the earnings of the
road are insufficient for that purpose. The contract, by which
the time to pay those coupons, for which the scrip was issued,
was extended for ten years, does not release the corporation
from its obligation, provided it is in funds from the earnings
of the road and the sales of its lands. The coupons are not
cancelled, but are- still held as collateral security for the scrip
issued. The inability of the company to pay such coupons
from the earnings of the road, combined with "the proceeds of
the sales of the lands, which led to the contract for the scrip,
no longer exists, and there is no legal impediment in the way
of the trustees taking up such coupons, notwithstanding the
contract deferring their compulsory payment for ten years.
The money received from the sales of the lands cannot be
used in purchasing the bonds of the company, which are now
at more than ten per cent. premium, and the trustees are.
restricted.in their payment to that premium. Any investment under the law of Massachusetts would bring them only
a moderate interest, probably not exceeding -four per cent.
The coupons draw seven per cent. There is, therefore, a
manifest propriety and justice in the demand of the corpora,
tion that the surplus money from the sales of its lands, instead
of being thus invested, should be applied to taking up the
outstanding coupons. And it is the plain duty of the trustees,
in the execution of their trust, to make the proceeds of the
sales of lands as available as possible for the extinction of the
indebtedness of the corporation, first on its coupons, and then
upon its bonds, so long as the same, can be bought at a,
premium not exceeding ten per cent.
The decree of the court is,
therefore, reversed, and the cause
remanded with directions to enter a decree in accordance
with, th'is opinion.

