OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion -of the Court.

ST. TAMMANY WATER WORKS v. INEW ORLEANS
WATER WORKS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIROUI

COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Submitted December 3",
1886.-Decided January 10, 1887.

On similar facts, with reference to the same corporate grant, Are Orleans
WaterlVorksCo. v.1?ivers, 115. U.S. 674, is affirmed to the point that a legislative grant of an exclusive right to supply water to a municipality and
its inhabitants, through pipes and mains laid in the public streets, and
upon condition of the performance of the service by the grantee, is a
grant of a franchise vested in the state, in consideration of the performance of a public service, and, after performance by the grantee, is a contract protected by the Constitution of the Uited States against state
legislation, and against provisions in state constitutions, to impair it.
'THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

M. G. Z. Hall for appellant.
.Af. J.R. Beckwith and Xr. E. H. Farrarfor appellee.
:Mm. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of th, court.
The parties to this appeal are corporations of the state of
Louisiana. The New Orleans Water 'Works Company was
created by a special act of the General Assembly of Louisiana,
passed -March 31,. 1877,and was given the exclusive right, for
fifty years from the date of its charter, "of supplying the city
of New Orleans and its inhabitants with water lrom the Mississippi River, or any other stream or river, by means of pipes
and conduits, and for erecting and constructing aniy necessary
works or engines or machines for that purpose." It was vested
with authority to construct canals and trenches for conducting
"the water of the rivers from any place or places it may deem
fit, and to raise and construct such dykes, mounds, and reservoirs as may be required for secring axfd carrying a full supply of pure water to said city and its inhabitants," and "to

TAMMANY WATVER W'KS v. N. 0.'WATER W'KS.

65

Opinion of the Court.

lay and .place any number of conduits or pipes or aqueducts
.

.

.

through or over any of the stre3ts of the city of New

Orleans." It was required to proceed, immediately after its
organization, in the "erection of new works and 'pipes sufficient in capacity to furnish a full and adequate supply of
water, to be drawn, from the Mississippi River, or elsewhere,
as may be judged most expedient."
In New Orleans Water Wfore Co. v'.Rivers, 115 U. S. 674,
681, which involved the validity of a municipal 'ordinance
granting to one Rivers the privilege of bringing water from
the Mississippi River into his hotel, in the city of New Orleansby means of mains and pipes laid in its streets -it was adjudged that so much of the company's charter as .gave it the
exclusive privilege before mentioned was, within the meaning
of the: Constitution of the United States, a contract protected
against impairment, in respect of its obligation, by that provision of the state constitution of 1879 abolishing the monopoly features in the charters of all then existing corporations
other than railroad corporations; consequently, that that ordinance was void as interfering with the contract rights of the
company.
It was also decided that "the right to dig up aid use the
streets and alleys of New Orleans for the purpose of placing
mains and pipes for supplyipg the city and its inhabitants with
water .is a franchise belonging to the state, which she could
grant 'to persons or corporations upon such terms as she
deemed best for the public interests';" and since "the object
to be attained was a public one, for which the state could
male proiion
"by
legislative enactment, the granting the
franchise could-be accompanied with such exclusive privileges'.
to the grantee, in respect of the subject of the grant, as in the
judgment of the legislative department would best promote
the public health and the public comfort, or the protection of
public'and private property.": But it was also decided that,,
notwithstanding the exclusive privileges granted to the conpany, "the power remains with the state or with the municipal government of New Orleans acting under legislative
authority to make such regulations as will secure to the public
VOL. CXX-5

OCTOBER TER31, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

the uninterrupted use of the streets as well as prevent the distribution of water unfit for use, and provide for such a continuous supply, in quantity, as protection to property, public
and private, may require;" and that rights and privileges
arising'from contracts with the state are "subject to regulations for the protection of the public health, the public morals,
and the public safety, in the same sense as are all contracts
and all property, whether owned by natural persons or corporations."
The St. Tammany Water Works Company was organized ;-n
1882, under the general laws of Louisiana relating to corporations. Its articles of association declare the object of its incorporation to be "to furnish and supply the inhabitants of the
city of New Orleans and other localities coTitiguous to the line
of its works with an. ample'tupply of pure, clear, and wholesome water from such rivers, streams, or other fountain
sources as may be found most available 'for such purpose," and
to that end to lay pipes and conduits and construct and maintain such system of water works as may be required for the
purposes of its organization.
This company being about to take active steps to obtain
authority for bringing into New Orleans the waters of the
Bogue Falaya River in the parish of St, Tammany, and distributing the same by means of pipes, mains, and conduits
placed in the streets of that city parallel with those constructed,
by the New Orleans Water"Works Company, the present suit
was brought by the latter corporation for the purpose of
obtaining an injunction against all attempts by the appellant,
its agents, and employ~s to infringe upon the exclusive privileges granted to the appellee. The answer admits the material facts alleged in the bill, but insists that the charter of the
appellee, so far as it granted the exclusive privileges in question, could be set aside, repealed, or abolished by the state,.or
by the legislature, or by the municipal government of New
Orleans, in the exercise of police functions. The controlling
question is as to the effect of the before-mentioned provision
of the state constitution- upon the exclusive rights granted to
the plaintiff by its charter.

TAIiANY WATER W'KS v. 14. 0. WATER W'KS.

67

Opinion of the Court.

As the exclusive right, of the appellee to supply the city of
New Orleans and its inhabitants with'water was not restricted
to water drawn from the Mississippi River, but embraced
water from any other stream, it is impossible to distinguish
this case in principle from that of the N'ew Orleans Water
Works. Company v. Rivers. Upon the authority of the latter
case, it must be held that the carrying out by appellant of its
scheme for a system of water works in New Orleans would be
in violation of the rights of the appellee, and that the state
constitution of 1879, so- far as it assumes to withdraw .the
exclusive privileges granted to the alpellee, is inconsistent
with the clause of the national 'Constitution foibidding a state
from passing any law impairing the obligation of contracts.
It is, however, contended, in behalf of the St. Tammany
Water Works Company, that the water from the Bogue Falaya
River is shown by the proof to be .pure, uncontaminated by
saline or organic matteri to any appreciable extent, and to be
more suitable for drinking, washing, cooking,,manufacturing,
and other puiposes, than thewater drawn from-the Mississippi
River and distributed through" the .city by the New Orleans
Water Works Company.. -And "uponthese 'facts is based the
suggestion that 'the people of New Orleans cannot be prevented, by the contract the appellee has with the -state, from
obtaining, .through any lawful" agency, such water as is most
beneficial to their healthor best adapted for business or public
uses. Touching this and similar suggestions by counsel of the
appellait, it is sufficient to say that no question aises in the
present case as to whether the state or.the municipal government of New Orleans may n9t, if the public health or the
public comfort so rbquire, compel the appellee, now having
the exclusive right of--supplying the city of New Orleans and
its inhabitants with water distributed throigh pipes laid in
the streets of that municipality (or if it refuses, employ other
agencies) to supply water' from some river or stream other
than the Mississippi. No such action has been had either by
the state or by the city, and, consequently, there was no substantial dispute between the plaintiff and the city. The latter
has not given its assent to the use by the St. Tanunany Water

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Counsel for Defendant in Error.

Works Company of the public streets for the distribution of
water by means of pipes laid in them, nor has it, so far as the
record shows, determined that the -public health would be
better protected, or the public comfort subserved, by supplying the people with water from the Bogue Falaya River rather
than from the Mississippi River. These are matters which
neither the appellant nor individual citizens may determine
for the constituted authorities. In what mode such questions
may be determined, so as to be binding upon the appellee,
need not be considered until they actually arise in proper
form.
The legal effect of the decree is only to prevent the St.
Tammany Water Works Company, under any power it now
has, from laying pipes, mains, and conduits, in and through
the streets of New Orleans, for supplying that city and its
inhabitants with water. It is, therefore, upon the authority
of the former case,
Aflr;ned.

EAYES v.

MISSOURI.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MtISSOU-RI.
Submitted January 3, 18S7.-Declded

January 17, 187.

A statute of a state which provides that in capital cases, in cities having a
population of over 100,000 inhabitants, the state shall be allowpd fifteen
peremptory challenges to jurors, while elsewherQ in the state it is allowed in such cases only eight peremptory challenges, does not deny the
equal protection of the laws to a person accused and tried for murder
in a city containiqg over 100,000 inhabitants; and there was no error in
refusing to limit the state's peremptory challenges to eight.

THE

case which makes the Federal question is stated in the

opinion of the court.
lifr. Jeff. Chandler for plaintiff in error.
.. &. B. G. Boone, Attorney General of Missouri, for defendant in error.

