' OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

did not, therefore, prejudice the defendant. It does not
appear from this record what took place at the trial. There
is no bill of exceptions which shows what evidence, if any, the
defendant offered, or whether any that he did offer was rejected. For aught that appears, the very matters which he
might have offered'in evidence, under that portion of the
answer stricken out, were in fact offered and received under
the pleadings as they stood at the time of the trial.
It seems also to be objected to the judgment rendered
against the county of Nemaha that the coiupons sued on are
not the obligations of the county. It is said that the bonds
are precinct bonds, issued by the county commissioners of the
county, the duty to pay which rests upon the precinct alone;
the mode of-payment being by means of a tax to be levied by
the county commissioners upon the property within the bounds
of the precinct. It is, therefore, argued that no action will lie
against the county in respect to these bonds and coupons,
except in case of the refusal of the county commissioners to
levy the tax when it ought to be levied, when a mandamus is
the sole remedy, being the one prescribed by the statute. This
question has been set at rest by the previous decisions of this
court. Davenport v. -Dodge County, 105 U. S. 237, and Blair
v. Cuming County, 111 U. S. 363, are decisions upon the very
point arising under the same statute.
There is, therefore, no error in the record, and
T/e judqment is affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. SYMONDS
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIM.
Submitted December 6, 1886.-Decided January 10, 1887.

The sea-pay given to officers of the navy by Rev. Stat. § 1556 may be earned
by services performed under orders of the Navy Department in a vessel
employed, by authority of law, in active service in bays, inlets, roadsteads, or other arms of the sea, under the general restrictions, regula-

UNITED STATES v.

T MONDS.

Opinion of the Court.
tions and requirements that are incident or peculiar to service on the
high seas.
The authority of the bead of an Executive Department to issue orders and
regulations under directions of the President to have the force of law is
subject to the condition that they conflict with no act of Congress: and
an order by the Secretary of the Navy that a service shall not be a sea
service which Congress has directed shall be a sea service is invalid.

THIS was an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
2fr. Attorney General and 31vr. F. P. Dewees for appellant.
31'. John Paul Jones and Mr. Robert B. Lines for appellees.
MR. JusT E HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

The question in this case is, whether certain services of the
appellee, a lieutenant in the navy of more than five years'
standing, were performed "at sea," within the meaning of
§ 1556 of the Revised Statutes. That section provides as,
follows:
"The commissioned officers and warrant officers on the'
active list of the navy of the United States; and the petty
officers, seamen, ordinary seamen, firemen, coal-heavers, and
employis in the navy shall be entitled to receive annual pay
at the rates herein stated after their respective designations:
Lieutenants, during the first five years after date of
commission, when at sea, $2400; on shore duty, $2000; on
leave or waiting orders, $1600; after'five years from such
date, when at sea, 8$600; on shore duty, $2200; on leave or
waiting orders, $1800."
By an order of the Secretary of the Navy, June 30, 1881,
the officer commanding the United States training-ship New
Hampshire, then at Norfolk, Virginia, was authorized to enlist
,officers' stewards, cooks, and servants, such*as were allowed
for a vessel with her complement of officers, the order declaring that her officers "will be considered as attached to a vessel
commissioned for sea service the same as other apprentice
training vessels." On the first day of April, 1882, Symonds,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

in obedience to orders, assumed the post of executive officer
of the. New Hampshire, and thereafter. discharged the duties
o that position, which were similar to those performed by
executive officers of cruising ships. He also discharged other
duties of a character more exacting and arduous than those
on board of any other class of naval vessels. There was no
change in the nature of his services after lie reported for duty
as executive officer of the New Hampshire. He.was required
tO have his quafters on board, to wear his uniform, to mess on
the vessel, and was not permitted by the rules of the service
to live with his family. When he reported on board that ship
she was stationed at Narragansett Bay, and, during most of
his service thereon, was the flag-ship of the training squadron,
On the seventh day of July, 1882, the then Secretary of the
Navy issued an order to the effect that "on and after the first
day of August next, the New Hampshire, the kinnesota, the
Intrepid, and the Alarm will not be considered in commission
for sea service." There was, however, no change in the status
of the ship on or after August, 1882, her equipment and complement of officers being those of a cruising ship.
From April 1, 1882, to July 31, 1882, appellee was allowed
sea-pay, and commutation of rations at thirty cents per day;
but from the latter date he was allowed only shore-pay of an
officer of his grade, without rations or commutation therefor.
This suiit was brought by appellee to recover the difference
between pay for sea and shore duty as regulated by § 1556 of
the Revised Statutes.
Section 1571 of the Revised Statutes - which is a reproduction of the third section of an act of June 1, 1860, increasing
and regulating the pay of the navy, 12 Stat. 27, - provides
that "no service shall be regarded as sea service except such
as shall be performed at sea, uader the orders of a Department
and in vessels employed by authority of law." It is not disputed that the seiwices of Symonds were performed under the
orders of the Secretary of the Navy, and in a vessel employed
with authority of law. If they were performed "at sea,," his
compensation therefox is absolutely fixed by § 1556. Does
the statute confer upon the Secretary of the -Yavy, acting

UITED STATES v. SYMONDS.
Opinion of the Court.

alone or by direction of the President, the power to declare a
particular service to be shore service if, in fact, it was performed by the officer "when at sea," under the orders of the
Department and on a vessel employed with authority of law?
By the navy regulations of 1876, it was declared that "duty
on board a sea-going vessel of the Navy in commission, on
board a practice ship at sea, or on board a coast-survey vessel
actually employed at sea, will be regarded by the Department.
as sea service." p. 85. Assuming that the first clause of that
regulation contemplates services at sea under the orders- of the
Department, in a vessel employed with authbrity of law, it is
clear that all the different kinds of services described therein
are services performed at sea in the meaning of § 1556. But
they are to be deemed such, not because the Secretary of the
Navy has announced that the Department will so regard them,
but because they are, in fact, services performed at sea, and,
not on shore. If the regulations of 1876 had not recognized
services "on board a practice ship at sea" as sea services, the
argument in behalf of the government -would imply that they
could not be regarded by the courts, or by the proper account-.
ing officers, as sea services; in other words, that the Secretary
of the Navy could fix, by order, and conclusively, what was
and what was not sea service. But Congress certainly did not
intend to confer authority upon the Secretary of the Navy to
dliminish an officer's compensation, as established by law, by
declaring that to be shore service which was, in fact, sea
service, or to increase his compensation by declaring that to
be sea service which was, in fact, shore service. The authority
of the Secretary to issue orders, regulations, 'and instructions,
with the approval of the President, in reference to matters
connecter with the naval establishment, is subject to the condition, necessarily implied, that they must be consistent with
the statutes which have been enacted by Congress in reference
to the navy., He may, with the approval of the President,
establish regulations in execution of, or supplementary to, but
not in conflict with, the statutes defining his powers or conferring rights upon other. The contrary has never been held
by this court. What we now say is entirely consistent with
VOL. c-x\X-4

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

Gratiotv. United States, 4 How. 80, and Ex parte Reed, 100
U. S. 13, upon which the government relies. Referring in the
first case to certain army regulations, and in the other to
certain navy regulations, which had been approved by Congress, the couit observed that they had the force of law. See
also Smith v. Thitney, 116 U. S. 181. In neither case, however, was it held that such regulations, when in conflict with
the acts of Congress, could be upheld. If the services of
Symonds were, in the meaning of the statute, performed "at
sea," his right to the compensation established by law for sea
service is as absolute as is the right of any other officer to his
salary as established by law. The same observations may be
made, in reference to the order of the Secretary of the Navy
of J'uly 1, 1882, which - without modifying the previous
order that Symonds should perform the duties of executive
officer of the New Hampshire-declared that that ship would
not be considered as in commission for sea service after August
1, 1882. It does not appear that the Secretary had any pur-pose, by his order, to affect the pay of the officers of the ship
as fixed by the tatute. Other reasons doubtless suggested
the propriety or necessity of its being issued. But his order
is relied upon here as depriving Symonds of the right to seapay after the date last named. For the reasons stated, that
order could not convert the services of Symonds from sea
services into shore services, if they were, in fact, performed
when "at sea."

We concur in the conclusion reached by the Court of Claims,
namely, that the sea-pay given in § 1556 may be earned by
services performed under the orders of the Navy Department
in a vessel employed, with authority of law, in active service
in bays, inlets, roadsteads, or other arms of the sea, under the
general restrictions, regulations, and requirements that are
incident or peculiar to service on the high sea. It is of no
consequence, in this case, that the New Hampshire was not.
during the period in question, in such condition that she coulfd
be safely taken out to sea beyond the main land. She was a
training-ship, anchored in Narragansett Bay during the whole
time covered by the claim of appellee, and was subject to such

UNITED STATES v. BISHOP.
Opinion of the Court.

regolations as would have been enforced had she been put in
order and used for purposes of cruising, or as a practice ship
at sea. Within the meaning of the law, Symonds, when performing his duties as executive officer of the New Hampshire,
was "at sea."
Judgment afrmed.

UNITED STATES v. BISHOP.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Submitted December 6,1886.-Decided January 10, 1887.

This case is affirmed on the authority of United States v. Symonds, just
decided (ante, 46).

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mrt. Attorney General and _-Yr. F. P. JDewees for appellant.
-1". Joen,Paul Jones and 31r. Robert B. Lines for appellee.
MR. JVSTIcE ILALA.N delivered the opinion of the court.

This case does not differ in principle from that of United
States v. Symonde, just decided.
Bishop is now, and has been for more than four years, a
lieutenant-commander in the navy. By direction of the Secretary of the Navy, he assumed the duties of executive officer
of the training-ship Mffinnesota, on the 18th of April, 1884.
During the period of such service that vessel was stationed in
New York harbor, cruising and moving about under her own
power. Her machinery and equipment were kept in order, and
she was perfectly seaworthy, capable, upon short notice, of
being used in a protracted cruise.
The duties of Bishop, while such executive officer, were
more arduous and confining than those of officers of similar
grade upon vessels in foreign waters.

