HUNTINGTON

v. WORTHEN.

Syllabus.

it a dismissal by the court upon motion of the defendant, on
the ground that the plaintiff had failed to prove a sufficient
,case for the jury at the trial. The judgment was rendered
upon the evidence offered by the defendants, which could only
have been after the plaintiff had made out aprimafaciecase.
That evidence was passed upon judicially by the court, who
determined its effect to be a bar to the cause of action. This
was confirmed by the consent of the attorney representing the
United States. The judgment of dismissal was based on the
ground of the finding of the court, as matter of fact and matter
of law, that the subject-matter of the suit'had been so adjusted
and settled by the parties that ihere was no cause of action
then existing. This was an asce:%ainment judicially that the
defence relied upon was valid and sufficient, and consequently
was a: judgment upon the merits, finding the issue for the
defendants. Being, as already found, for the same cause of
action as now sued upon, it operates as a bar to the present
suit by way of estoppel.
Te judgment isafflwvmed.

HUNTINGTON v. WORTHEN.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES. FOR

TE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.

LITTLE ROOK & FORT S]MITH RAILWAY v.
WORTHEN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.
Submitted January 6,1887.-Decided January24, 1887.

The statute of Arkansas of March 31, 1883, ยง 46, whichdirects the board
of railroad commissioners not to include the embankments, tunnels, cuts,
ties, trestles, or bridges of railroads in the schedule of the property of
railroad companies, prepared by them for the purpose of assessment of
taxes, is in conflict with the provisions in the Constitution of the State
of 1874, relating to the assessment and taxation of property within the
state.
VOL. cxx-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

'TiE following is th6 case stated by the court.
In the firsi of the above-entitled cases the .plaintiff, the Little RoQ4 and Fort Smith Railway, is a corporation created
under the laws of Arkansas, and operates a railroad from. Little Rock to Fort Smith in that state, running through several
counties in its route. The'defendants are the sheriffs of those
counties,'and ex bficio collectors of taxes therein. The suit
was brought to enjoin them from collecting certain taxes assessed and levied for the year 1885 on what is termed in the
revenue act of the state as the "railroad track" of the corporation, upon the alleged ground ,that the Board of Railroad
Commissioners,of the state exceeded its powers by -including
unauthorized, elements in the estimate of itsvalue. That term
"railroad track" embraces all fixed railroad property of the
corporation, and is assessed for purposes of taxation as real
estate.
In the secona of the above-entitled cases the plaintiffs, who
are citizens of Massachusetts, and trustees under a mortgage
executed by the railway company upon its railroad and land
grant, fied their bill of complaint against the same collectors
to. restrain the collection of the same taxes. Subsequently the
bill was amended by joining the county 6lerks of the s~veral
counties on the line of the railway as defendants, with prayers
for injunctions r.estraining them from doing the several acts
which the revenue act requires them' to perform in connection
with and subsequently to the sale of the railroad track
By a statute of Arkansas, passed in 18S3, the Governor, Secretary of State, and Auditor of Public Accounts were constituted a Board of Railroad Commissioners for the state, and
required on the first Monday of-April of each year to ascertain
the value of all property, real and personal, of every railroad
company existing under the laws of the state, including
therein the railroad track, rolling-stock, water and wood stations, passenger and freight depots, offices, and -furniture.
And it was made the duty of the company in March, 18S3,
and every second yea? thereafter when required, to prepare
and file with the Secretary of State a statement or, schedule

HUNTINGTON v. WORTHEN.
Statement of ]Facts.

showing the length of its maiti and side-tracks, switches and
turn-outs in each county, in which the road is located, and in
each city and town through or into which its road may run;
also the value of all improvements, stations and structures, including the railroad track located on the right of way; but
the statutb declares that "&ue schedule shall not inelude, nor,
value, embank rnents, tunnels, cuts, ties, trestles, or bridges."
The statute also required the Board of Railroad Commissioners to meet on the first '.Monday of April 'in each year, at
the office of the Secretary of State, and examine the lists or'
schedulks of the description and value of the railroad track of
the railroad companies filed with the Secretary of State; and
if the schedules are made out in accordance with the provisions
of the act, and, in the opinion of the Board, the valuation of
the railroad track is fair and reasonable, it shall appraise the
-same, and the Secretary of State shall certify to the assessor.
of each county, in which the railroad is located, so much of the
list as values the railroad track located in the county and in
any city or town thereof; and the assessors shall list and
assess the same as real estate.
The Little Rock and Fort Smith Railway, under this statute,
made a return of the length of its main and side-tracks ; and
of the value thereof ; and of the improvements and structures,
including the railroad track oh its right of way3 but omitted
in its estimate the value of the embankments, tunnels, cuts,
ties, trestles, and bridges, following in ,this respect the directions of the statute.
At a subsequent meeting, the Board passed a resolution declaring that all property of railroad companies in the state
should be assessed at its true value, without regard to the restrictions and limitations mentioned, by which the value of the
embanlanents, tunnels, cuts, ties, trestles, and bridges is excluded from the schedule of their property; that, after full
examination and consultation, it had determined that such
limitations and restrictions were unconstitutional, and that it
was not bound thereby. The several railroad companies were,
therefore, requested to render full statements of their property
of whatever kind or description, and the true value thereof,

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

without regard to the restrictions and limitations mentioned.
A hearing was accorded to the companies by the Board; but
its conclusion was not changed, and it proceeded to include in
the assessment of the railroad track the value of the embankinents, tunnels, cuts, ties, trestles, and bridges. The assessment
was thereby largely increased. The plaintiff thereupon colimenced the present suit to restrain the collection of the taxes,
setting forth the matters above mentioned, and alleging that
it was unable to state to what extent the assessment of its
property was increased by this action of the Board, as the in-.
crease was incapable of separation from the whole. It 'chaxged,
therefore, that the whole assessment was vitiated and rendered
void by this unlawful action of the Board, and prayed an injunction to restrain the collection of the taxes based upon it.
The defendants appeared in the suit and demurred to the
complaint. The court in which the suit was commenced sustained the demurrer and dismissed the suit. The Supreme
Court of the state, on appeal, affihned the decree of the court
below, and the case is now brought here for review.
In the second suit -the

one from the Federal court -the

defendants appeared and pleaded in bar the decree in the
above case inthe state court, and also, by leave of the court,
demurred to the complaint. The court sustained the demurrer
and dismissed the bill. From its decree the case is brought
here on appeal.
.r. C. IF. Iuntington for appellants and plaintiff in error.
r.Daniel TF Jones, Attorney General of Arkansas, for
appellees and defendants in error.
]M. JusTIcE FIELD, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.

The constitution of Arkansas of 1874 provides that "all
property subject to taxation shall be taxed according to its
value, to be ascertained in such manner as the general assembly shall direct, making the same equal and uniform through-

HUNTINGTQN v. WORTHEN.
Opinion of the Court.

out the state," and that "no one'species of property, from
which a tax may be collected, shall be taxed higher than
another species of property of equal value."
The following property is declared to be exempt from taxation: "Public property used exclusively for public purposeg;
churches used as such; cemeteries ,tsed exclusively as such;
school buildings and apparatus; libraries and grounds used
exclusively for school purposes; and buildings and grounds
and materials used exclusively for public charity." And the
constitution declares that "all' laws exempting property from
taxation- other than is provided" therein "shall be void.-'As thus seen, no part of the property of railroad companies
in the state is exemlt from taxation, and any law which
exempts it is in express terms declared to be void. But laws
which indirectly produce such 'exemptibn must be equallyT
inoperative. That cannot be accomplished indirectly which
the organic law declares shall not be done directly The
assessment of property, that is, the appraisement and estimate
of its value, is the basis upon. which the amount of the tax is
fixed. A law, therefore, omitting from assessment portions ot
any particular property, thus lessening the estimate of its
value, has the effect of exempting it to that extent from taxation. That result cannot be accomplished, as well observed
by the Supreme Court of the state, under the guise of regulating the duties of assessors.
When, therefore, under the advice of the Attorney General,
the Board of Railroad Commissioners treated as invalid the
direction of the-statute, that the value of embanklments, tunnels, cuts, ties, trestles, afid bridges should not be included in
the estimate of the raih'oad track, it obeyed the constitution,
rather than the legislature. "It may not be a wise thing, as a
rule, for subordinate executive or ministerial officers to undertake to pass upon the constitutionality of legislation prescribing their duties,. and to -disregard it if in their judgment it -is
invalid. This may be a hazardous proceeding to themsdlves,
and productive of .great inconvenience to the public i but still
the determination of the judicial tribunals can alone settle the
legality of their action. An unconstitutional act is not a law;

OCTOBER TERM1, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

it.inds no one, and protects no one. Here the conflict between the constitution and the statute was obvious, and the
Board had the advice of the highest legal officer of the state;
and his conclusion was sustained by the judgment of the
Supreme Court of the state. The unconstitutional part of the
statute was separable from the remainder. The statute
d6claxed that, in, making its statement of the value of its
property, the railroad company should omit certain items;
that clause being held invalid, the rest remained unaffected,
and could be fully carried out. An exemption, which was
invalid, was alone taken from it. It is only when different
clauses of an act are so dependent upon each other that it is
evident the legislature would not have enacted one of them
without the other - as when the two things provided are necessary parts of one system -that the whole act will fall with
the invalidity of one clause. When there is no such connection and dependency, the act will stand, though different parts
of it are rejected.
As to the objection which the counsel of the plaintiffs in error
in the State case, and of the appellants in the Federal case, raise,
that the action of the Board of Railroad Commissioners was
in conflict with that clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Constitution of the United States, which declares that no
state shall deprive any one of property without due process of
law, we can only say, we do not perceive its application. The
complaint of the plaintiffs in error and appellants is, that the
Board of Railroad Commissioners did not follow the act of
the legislature. If that act was valid, no ground lay for
complaint that the state had (lone anything to deprive the
company of its property without due process of law. If the
act was, in the particulars mentioned, unconstitutional, as
the Supreme Court of the state afterwards held, there was no
just ground :of complaint thai the Railroad Commissioners
had refused to follow its directions.
Irn the State case the writ is dismissed,there being ao Federal
question in,6olved. In the Federal case, the decree of the
cort below is ajfflNred.

