OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

HIBERNIA INSURANCE

COMPANY

v. ST. LOUIS

TRANSPORTATION COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Argued January 17,1887. -Decided

January 31,1887.

In a suit in equity by an insurance company against a transportation company, and the transferee of its property, to recover the amount paid by
the insurance company, as insurer of goods alleged to have been lost, in
transportation, by the negligende of the transportation company; Held:,
without passing on any other question, that negligence was not proved,
and that the loss happened by perils excepted in the contract of transportation.

THis was a bill in equity. The court below dismissed the
bill; and plaintiff appealed. The case is stated. in the opinion
of the court.
.Xr. 0. A. Sansilm for appellant.
ilbr. Given Calmjpbell, for appellees, submitted on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE. BLATOrFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the

United States for the Eastern District of Missouri, by the
Iibernia Insurance Company, a Louisiana corporation, against
the St. Louis and New Orleans Transportation Company and

the Babbage Transportation Compiny, two Missouri corpora.
tions, and Henry Lowery, a citizen of Missouri.
The bill alleges that in August, 1879, the Babbage Company, of which Lowery was president and director, being
engaged in transporting merchandise for hire on the'Mississippi
River from St. Louis to New Orleans by means of certain
steam tdw-boats and barges which it owned, contracted with
the firm of Gordon & Gomila to transport for it from St. Louis
to N ew Orleans a quantity of wheat, "the dangers of the
river, fire, and collision only excepted;" that it loaded a part

HIBERNL4. INS. CO. v. ST. LOUIS. TRANS. CO.

167

Opinion of the Court.

of the wheat on the barge Sallie Pearce, which it took in tow
by its tow-boat John Means ;'and that, by negligent navigation
on the part of the Babbage Company, the barge broke away
from the tow-boat, and was allowed to drift down the river
until she brought up against a steamboat which was lying at
rest along the bank on the Missouri side of tho river, aid-was
broken and crushed, so that some of the wheat was lost in. the
river and some of it was damaged by water.
The bill also alleges that, in September, 1879, one Pleasants
owned certain rye, corn, oats, and hay, which were at- St.
Louis, on the barge Colossal; that the ,Babbage Company
contracted with Pleasants to carry those goods on that barge
from St. Louis to New Orleans, "the dangers of navigation,
fire, expl6sion, collision, bridges, and all other known and unknown obstructions excepted ;" and that the company, by its
tow-boat E. Al. Norton, took the barge in tow, and' the towboat was so negligently managed that she drew the barge
against an obstruction then visible and known to the master,
pilot, and officers of the tow-boat, and the barge was broken,
and allowed by them to remain, without any attempt to rescue
the goods, and nearly all of them were lost.
The bill also alleges that the plaintiff, as insurer of the
goods in both cases, paid to Gordon & Gomila and Pleasants,
$19,633.16.
The bill also alleges that, in January, 1880, the Babbage
Company, by Lowery, as its president, sold all its property,
consisting of four steam tow-boats and thirteen barges, to the
St. Louis Company; that such sale was without consideration,
and fraudulent as against the rights of the plaintiff as a crediStor of the Babbage Company ; and that Lowery and the St.
Louis Company had notice of the fraud.
The bill waives an answer on oath, and prays that the court
will decree payment of said debt to the plaintiff, with interest;
that the St. Louis Company be restrained from disposing of
any of said property until the plaintiff's debt shall be paid; and
that until that time the plaintiff have a lien on said property.
The defendants demurred to the bill for want of equity; for
want of privity between the plaintiff and the defendants; and

OCTOBER TETM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

for multifariousness. The court, 3 McCrary, 368, dismissel
the bill as to Lowery, and overruled the demurrer as to the
other defendants, with leave to them, to answer, holding that
it was not necessary that the plaintiff should recover a.judgment at law against the Babbage Company before bringing
this suit.
The defendants then put in a plea to that part of the bill
which relates to the transfer of the property and asks for
relief by a lien and an injunction, denying the fraud and
alleging the bone ftdes of the transaction. They, at the same
time, put in an answer to the part of the bill not covered by
the plea, denying the negligence, and averring that the losses
were due to the perils of navigation. There were special replications to the plea and the answer.
Proofs being taken on the plea, the court, 4 McCrary, 432,
overruled it, on a hearing, holding that the allegations of the
bill involved in the plea were established, and .that the debts
of the Babbage Company could be enforced in equity against
the other company to the extent of the property received by
the latter.
The case was afterwards brought to a hearing on proofs on
the issues raised by the answer, and the court, 5 MIcCrary, 397,
dismissed the bill. The plaintiff has appealed. The Circuit
Court held, as to the Sallie Pearce, that the contract was that of
a common carrier; that, as to the Colossal, it was immaterial
whether the contract was that of towage merely, or that of
common carrier; and that each disaster was cause4 by an
inevitable accident, falling within the excepted dangers of
the river and of navigation,- alleged in the bill*as forming
part of each contract. - We concur in this conclusion. In the
first case a sand reef had been recently formed in the channel;
the pilot of the tow-boat had no reason to suppose it was
there; and she was being handled with sdll and care when
the accident occurred. In the second case, the Colossal wa3
unseaworthy when she started. The tow-boat was prudently
navigated, but the river bank had shortly before caved in, and
a tree from the land had fallen into the river, its presence
being unknown, ,mud the Colossal struck it under water, caus-

UNITED STATES v.' HILL.
Syllabus.

ing the accident, there being no want of care, sidll, or attention on the part of those in charge of the tow-boat, either
before or after the occurrence, in regard to the navigation or
the saving of the cargo of the Colossal.
The appellees have contended in this court that the rulings,
of the Circuit Court as to the demurrer and the plea were erroneous, but, without passing on those questions, we aMrm the
decree, for the reason stated.

Aflrmed.

UNITED STATES v. HILL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
DISTRICT OF XL&SS

STATES

FOR THE

CHUSETTS.

Argued December 20, 1886. -Decdd

January 31, 1887.

It was thd custom in the United States courts in Massachusetts, from 1839
to December, 1884, known and approved by the judges, f~r the clerk to
charge $3 as fees in naturalization proceedings. The clerk of the District Court never included those fees in his returns. That fact was known
to the judges to whom his accounts were semi-annually exhibited, and by
whom they were passed without objection in that particular. Relying
on that custom, and believing that those fees formed no part of the
emoluments to bd returned, the clerk of the District Court appointed in
1879 did not include those iees in his accounts. This was known to the
district judge when he examined and certified the "accounts, and his
accounts so made out, to July, 1884, were examined and adjusted by thm
accounting officers of the Treasury. Under a rule made by the. District
Court in 1855, the clerk had charged and received the $3 as a gross sum,
for examining, in advance of thieh presentation to the court, the application papers, and reporting to the court whether they were in conformity with law; and had made no division for specific services, according
to any items of the fee bill in §§ 823 et seq. of th6 Revised Statutes. In a
suit brought in December, 1884, on the official bond of the clerk, against
him and his surety, to recover the amount'of the naturalization fees;
Held:
(1) The provision in § 823, taken from § 1 of the act of February 26,
1853, c. 80, 10 Stat. 161, that the fees to clerks -shall be "taxed
and allowed," appliesiprima facie, to taxable fees and costs in ordinary suits between party and party, prosecuted in a court; and ther
is no specification of naturalization'matters in the fees of clerks.

