OCTOBER TERM , 1886.
Statement of Facts.

dent Savings Society v. _Fo'd,114 U. S. 635, followed in Oakley
v. Goodnow, 118 U. S. 43.
The order to remand 'is c firmed.
X-u. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD did not take part in the decision of
this case.

EX 2PARTE HARDING.
ORIGINAL.
Submitted March 16, 1887.-Decided March 21, 1887.

Ex parte Iilson, 114 U. S. 417, affirmed on the point that this court cannot
discharge on habeas corpus a person imprisoned under the sentence of a
Circuit or District Court, in a criminal case, unless the sentence exceeds
the jurisdiction of that court, or there is no authority to hold the prisoner under sentence.
A territorial court is not deprived of its jurisdiction to try a person
indicted for a criminal offence by the fact that an alien sat on the grand
jury that found the indictment, under a provision of a territoial statute
permitting it.
The denial of compulsory process to enable a person charged with crime
to obtain witnesses at the trial in the court below, does not invalidate
the judgment.

T.HE following motion was made in this case:
Now comes the petitioner, by- his counsel, and .moves this
honorable court for leave to file petition praying for the issue
of the writ 9 f habeas corpus and for certiorari, and submits
thereon the accompanying brief.
And it appearing that said petitioner is now under sentence
of death, and his counsel being advised that execution of such
sentence is fixed for the 25th day of March, instant, the
speedy action of this honorable court in the premises is earnestly prayed.
Respectfully submitted.
A. T. BRITTON,
A. B. BROWNE,
J. K. TOOLE,
Consel for Petitioner.

EX PARTE HARDING.
Opinion of the Court.

The petition accompanying the motion contained the following averments.
That the grounds and facts upon which your petitioner
relies, and did rely, upon the trial of the said cause, are:
First. That your petitioner is deprived of his liberty, and
is about to be deprived of his life, without due process of law,
as guaranteed by Article V, Amendments to the Constitution
of the United States, in this: That the indictment upon which
defendant was prosecuted, tried, convicted, and sentenced .was
not found by a legal grand jury of the Territory and District
wherein the said crime was alleged to have been committed;
that said grand jury was not composed wholly of citizens of
the United States-the peers of your petitioner; that one of
the grand jurors of the grand jury, which found and returned
the said pretended indictment., was an alien; therefore the
said indictment was and is absolutely null and void.
Second. That the act of the Territory of Montana entitled
"An Act Defining the Qualifications of Jurors," Session
Laws Montana Territory, p. 57, 1881, under and by virtue of
which said grand jury was selected and impanelled, is in
derogation of Article VI of the Amendmeints to the Constitution of the United States, and of the laws of the United
States in such case provided, in this: That said act authorized
any male person of .lawful age, other than a citizen of the
United States, as competent to serve on said grand jury.
Third. That, at the pretended trial of your petitioner, he,
said petitioner, was denied by said court his rights under
Article VI of the Amendments to the Constitution of the
United States, in this: He was by said court denied of his
right to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in
his favor.
Ymit. CurEF JusTiCE-WA=1T

delivered the opinion of the court.

This motion is denied. This court has no jurisdiction for
the discharge on habeas corpus of a person imprisoned under
the sentence of a territorial court in a criminal case, unless the
sentence exceeds the jurisdiction of that court, or there is no

781

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

authority to hold him under the sentence. Ex Tarte T7lson,
114 U. S. 417, 420, and the cases there cited. The fact that
a law of the territory allowed an alien who had declared
his intention to become a citizen of the United States to sit
on a grand jury, and that an-alien did in fact sit on the jury
that found the indictment against this' petitioner, did not
deprive the court of its jurisdiction for his trial under the
indictment.- The objection, if it be one, goes only to the regularity of the proceedings, not to the jurisdiction of the court.
The same is true of the allegation in the petition that the
petitioner was denied his right to have compulsory process for
obtaining witnesses in his favor. For such errors or irregularities, if they exist, a judgment is not void, and a writ of
habeas corpus gives this court no authority for their correction.
.Xotion denied.

