FARLEY v. KITTSON.
Syllabus.

as may be incurred by ok arise from the culpable act or neglect"
of said appellees.
The decree below is reversed so far as it gives the appelees
interest.',qpr the aggregate amount paid'by ther *into the
treasury qf the State, at the 'rateof eight per cent. per
anatum fi'orl the time of such payment ; and the cause is
remandedq with directions to allow interest upon that
anount,from the date of payment, at the 'rate only of .
per cent. per annnmr. In all other 'espects the decree ,
aflrned. The appellant will have its costs in this court.

FARLEY v. KITTSON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF 3IfINESOTA.
Argued March 29, N, 1SS6.- Reargued December 8,9, 186.--Decided February 7, 1857.

At the hearing upon a plea in equity and a general replication, no fact is in
issue but the truth of the mattel pleaded.
Objections to the equity of the plaintiff's claim, as stated in his bill, cannot
be taken by plea.
A plea in equity, though under oath, and negativing a material averment in
the bill, is no cvidence in the defendant's favor.
A bill in equity to enforce a contract between the plaiutiffand the defendants to purchase for theia joint benefit the )onds,secured by mortgages, of
two railroads, of one of which the plaintiff was receiver, and of the.other
general manager under the trustees in the mortgage, alleged that heperformed the agreement on his part; that the defendants purchased the"
bouds through an agent of the bondholders, and afterwards purchased
the railroads under decrees of foreclosure, and entered iWto possession
and made large profits, and refused to account to the plaintiff for his
share; and that the plaintiff, pleading the negotiations for the purchase
of the bonds, informed the agent of the bondholders of his interest, and
at all times answered to the best of his knowledge and ability all inquiries of the bondholders or tliei" agent, or of the trustees or any person
interested in the property, and always acted honestly and in good faith
towards ali ;uch persons. The defendants filed a plea, averring that
neither the agent nor the bondholders had any notice of the plaintiff's interest until after the sale of the railroads under the decrees of fore-

OCTOBER TER-M,

1886.

Statement of Facts.
closure, and that the agreement sued onl was a breach of his trusts as
receiver and as manager, and did not entitle him to relief in equity. A
general replication was filed, and at the hearing the truth of the fact
averred in the plea was disproved, Hfeld, that the plea must be overruled, and the defendants ordered to. answer the bill.

Tnis was a bill in equity by Jesse P. Farley against :Norman
W. Kittson, James J. Hill, and the St. Paul, Minneapolis and
Manitoba Railway Company, -which, as amefnded by leave of
court, contained the following allegations:
That in 187 6 the plaintiff and Kittson and Hill aigreed
together to acquire by purchase .or contract, for their joint
and equal benefit, all that could be obtained of the bonds
of the St. Paul and Pacific Railroad Company and the First
Division of the St. Paul and Pacific Railroad Company, two
corporations existing under the laws of Minnesota,'and owning
railroads in that state, those bonds being then outstanding
and for sale at a large discount, and secured by mortgages
upon the railroads, then in process of foreclosure; that the
object of the agreement was to buy the railroads at the
foreclosure sales, using the bonds in payment, and thereby to
acquire the railroads; that it was also agreed that, in order
to obtain from one Donald A. Smith and other capitalists
the funds required for the enterprise, Kittson and Hill might
use or give them an interest therein, but that all the interest
not so used or given should be retained and held for the joint
and equal benefit of the plaintiff and Kittson and Hill.
That it was further agreed between the plaintiff-and Kittson
and Hill that the details of the negotiations for procuring the
necessary funds and for the .purchase of the bonds should be
principally conducted and managed by Kittson and Hill, and
the persons so given an interest in the enterprise, and that the
plaintiff "should furnish such facts, information and advice,
and render such aid and assistance therein, from time to time,
as shouldcbe required of him."
That the plaintiff 1'had knowledge, not possessed by any
of the other parties, as to the whereabouts and situation of
said bonds, the rated value thereof by holders, the mode
whereby and the channel through which the same could be

PARLEY v. KITTS6N
Statement of Facts..

reached and procured, also ii respect to the situation, imount,
character and value of the lines of railroad and property
mortgaged to-secure said bonds, and in respect to the pending
suits for the foreclosure of said mortgages, and that the
services of the plaintiff in respect to all of said matters, and
his cobperation, were indispensable to the success of said
enterprise."
That thereupon Kittson procured funds from Smith and
one George Stevens, and agreed to give them a share in the
enterprise, the amount of which was unknown to the plaintiff,
but was believed by him to be one half; and that the rest
belonged to the plaintiff Kittson and Hill in equal shares.
That pursuant to the agreement between the plaintiff and
Kittson and Hill negotiations were opened in 1877 and carried
on until 1879, resulting in the purchase of bonds amounting
in the aggregate, at their face value and interest, to more
than $25,000,000; and thatthe purchases of bonds were made
by and in the name of Smith, Stevens, Kittson and Hill, but
for the purpose of being used in the purchase of the railroads
when offered for sale under foreclosure decrees, and under
and in pursuance of the agreement between the plaintiff and
Kittson and Hill.
That "throughout said negotiations for the purchase of said
bonds, and in the purchases thereof, the plaintiff was continuously called upon by the said Kittson and Hill for facts
and information, advice and cooperation in respect thereto,
and at their request furnished and rendered the same, pursuant
to the aforesaid agreements and understandings between them;,
and that said negotiations were only successful through and
by means of the advice and coperation of the plaintiff, and
the facts and information peculiarly within his knowledge
as aforesaid, and imparted by him to the said Kittson and
fi1, at their request, under said understandings and agreements."
That most of the purchases of bonds were made under an
agreement with the holders that they should not be paid forjill the railroads were sold under decrees of foreclosure, and
that the sellers of the bonds should then have the option of
VOL. cxx-20

OCTOBER TER12'i 1886.
Statement of Facts.

being paid in cash, or of tpking new bonds issued by a company to be organized by the purchasers, and secured by mortgage upon the same property.
. That nearly all the bonds were owned in Holland, and that
one John S. Kennedy was agent of a large majority of the
bondholders, with full authority to take such actiol! in respect
to them as he thought best, and was a trustee in all the mortgages, except one for $15,000,000 on the First Division of the
St. Paul and Pacific Railroad, and was the agent of the holders
of more than $11,000,000 of the bonds secured by that mortgage ; and that all the foreclosure suits had been commenced
by his order, and were prosecuted under his general control
and direction.
That the plaintiff "was appointed receiver of the property
of the St. Paul and Pacific Railroad Company, and was made
general manager of the lines of road of the First Division of
the St. Paul and -PacificRailroad Company, under the trustees
in said mortgages in possession thereof, upon the recommendation and at the instance and request of said Kennedy."
That after the agreement between the plaintiff and Kittson
and Hill, and before the decrees of foreclosure, and before the
purchase of any of the bonds, and while negotiations were
pending for the purchase of the bonds-represented.by Kennedy,
"the plaintiff informed the said Kennedy of his said interest
and connection with the said Kittson and Hill in the project
for the purchase of 'said bonds; and that the said Kennedy had
full notice and knowledge that he was so connected therewith
and interested therein, .nd fully approved and sanctioned the
same;" that the negotiations for the purchase of the bonds
were mainly had with Kennedy as agent of the bonholders,
and the bonds purchased were placed in the hands of Kennedy
and his partner, one Barnes, to be held until paid for as agreed,
and were so held, and only delivered upon being so paid for;
and that Kennedy strongly recommended the bondholders to
sell their bonds upon the terms offered by Smith, Stevens,
Kittson and Hill, as the best disposition of them that could
be made.
That "to all inquiries made by said Kennedy, 6Ir any of the

FARLEY

v. KITTSON.

Statement of Facts.

trustees in said mortgages, or by any of the holders of any of
the bonds secured thereby, or by any one. interested in the
property under his charge as manager or receiver, he [the
plaintiff] at all times gave full and true answers and information to the best and utmost of his knowledge and ability, and
kept the said Kennedy fully informed of all facts, matters and
things coming to his knowledge affecting said property, and in
all things acted honestly and in good faith towards all persons
interested in the property under his control as receiver and
manager as aforesaid."
That the defendant railway company was a corporation organized under the laws of Mlinhesota in May, 1879, by Kittson,
Hill, Smith and Stevens, for the purpose of taking, holding'
and managing the mortgaged railroads, for the use and benefit
of the parties interested in the purchase of the bonds; and
that those four persons were directors and officers of this company and had control of it.
That in March and April, 1879, foreclosure decrees were.
entered in"
the pending suits, directing the sale by auction of
the mortgaged railroads, and allowing outstanding bonds to
be taken in payment for an amount equal to what they would
be entitled to by way of dividends under those decrees; that
in May and June, 1879, the railroads were sold accordingly,
and, by direction and procurement of Kittson, Kill, Smith and
Stevens,' purchased by the defendant railway company, for
the use and benefit of the parties interested in the purchase of
the bonds as aforesaid, including the plaintiff, and all the
bonds purchased were then used in payment; that the defendant company paid nothing for the railroads, but took them
without consideration, except the consideration furnished and
provided by the plaintiff and Kittson, Hill, Smith and Stevens,
which consideration, aside from the bonds, was furnished by
Smith and Stevens as aforesaid; that property worth- in all
over $15,000,000 was thereby vested in the company, for the
use and benefit of the plaintiff and Kittson, Kill, Smith and
Stevens, in proportion to their respective interests, and the
company had notice at the time of the purchase that the plaintiff was jointly interested with Kittson and Hill.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1886.
Statement of Facts.

That the defendant company in June, 1879, issued and negotiated new bonds to the amount of $8,000,000, secured by
mortgage of the railroads, and with these bonds paid for all
the bonds purchased as aforesaid, and all other expenses of the
enterprise; and had since, under the control and management
of Kittson, Hill, Smith and Stevens, held and operated the
railroads and made large net profits.
That the capital stock of this company was $15,000,000,
which represented the property acquired, and was part of the
profits resulting from the enterprise ; that other profits amounting to many hundred thousand dollars had also been divided
between Kittson, Hill, Smith and Stevens; and that a large
amount of stock had been distributed among- them, of which
Kittson and Hill received 57,646 shares, being part of that to
which the plaintiff, Kittson and Hill were entitled under the
arrangement with Smith and Stevens, but that the company
neglected and refused to deliver any of the stock to the
-plaintiff.
That Kittson and Hill never questioned, but always admitted,
the plaintiff's right to share equally with them, until after the
organization of the defendant company in May, 1879, and
then at first only suggested to him that his share ought not to
be equal to theirs, because they had, as they claimed, been
required to advance some money in carrying out the enterprise; but now.the defendants, confederating to defraud the
plaintiff, refused to account with him, or to.deliver to him any
stock, or to pay him any of the profits of the enterprise, and
ignored and disregarded all his right' in the premises.
The bill prayed for a discovery, for an account, and that the
plaintiff be adjudged to be entitled to an equal share with
Kittson and Hill in the enterprise and its profits, and they be
ordered to pay aid turn over to him one third of the moneys,
bonds -nd stocks received by them, and the railway company
be ordered to issue to him his proportion of stock, and to recognize his rights in its stock and proerty as equal to those of
Kittson and Hill, and for further relief.
To this bill the St. Paul, Minneapolis and Manitoba Railway
SCoimpany demurred for want of equity, and Kittson and Hill
filed a plea.

FARLEY v. KITTSON.
,Statement of Facts.

The plea, after setting out with particularity the various
issues of bonds, secured- by mortgages, by the St. Paul and
Pacific Railroad Company, and by the First Division of the
St. Paul and Pacific Railroad Company, afid the appointment
of successive trustees under those mortgages; and alleging
that, upon a bill filed in 1873 by, Kennedy and others, on
behalf of all the bondholders under a mortgage of $15,000,000
on the first of those Vailroads, Farley was appointed by the..
court, on August 1, 1873, receiver of that railroad, and accepted the trust, and took possession of and managed the road
from that date until it was sold and delivered to the defendant
railway company under a decree of foreclosure, as stated in
the bill; that on October 9, 1876, Kennedy and two others, as
trustees, under and pursuant to mortgages on the second of
those railroads, took possession of it; and that from that date
until it was delivered to the purchaser .under a decree of foreclosure, those trustees held and operated it, and Farley was
the general manager of it for them, and had full control of the
management thereof; continued and concluded as follows:
"That the said plaintiff never at any tine informed thie said
Kennedy, nor any of the holders of any of said mortgage
bonds, of his interest in the project for purchasing said bonds,
or of his interest in the project of acquiring by means of said
bonds the said mortgaged property, which he alleges in his
bill of complaint; nor did the said Kennedy, nor any of said
bondholders, know, suspect, or have aiy information or belief,
at any time until after the confirmation of all said foreclosure
sales, that the plaintiff ever claimed to have any such interest,'
or any interest in said projects, or either of them.
"And these defendants say, that as receiver of said lines
covered by said $15,000,000 mortgage the said plaintiff could
not lawfully make the agreement with these defendants mentioned in the bill of complaint, or engage in the enterprise,
therein mintioned, of purchasing the bonds of said $15,000,000
issue, or in the enterprise of purchasing the said mortgaged
property; and that the making of such an agreement and the
embarking in such an enterprise by him was a breach of trust
on his part as such receive, and a fraud on the holders of the

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Statement of Facts.

bonds of said $15,000,000 issue, and was a fraud upon this
court, whose receiver he was.
"And that as general manager for the trustees in said mortgages of the lines of railroad of said First Division Company
the said plaintiff occupied a position of trust and confidence
toward his employers, the said trustees, and towards the holders
of the bonds secured by said mortgages; and that by making
,the agoeement and engaging and continuing in the enterpriser
of purchasing the said bonds and said mortgaged property mentioned in his said bill, the said Farley was guilty of a breach
of trust towards and a fraud upon the said trustees and the
said bondholders.
"And these defendants say that by reason of the said fidiaciary positions occupied by the plaintiff, as aforesaid, he is not
entitled to the aid of a court of equity to enforce as against
these defendants any of the agreements mentioned in said bill,
or any rights claimed by him and growing out of said agreements.
"Therefore these defendants do plead all and singular the
matters aforesaid in bar to the plaintiff's said bill, and pray the
judgment of this honorable court whether they should be compelled to make any further answer to the said bill, and pray to
be hence dismissed, with their reasonable costs and charges in
this behalf most wrongfully sustained."
Annexed to the plea were a certificate of counsel, that it was
in their opinion well founded in point of law; and an affidavit
of the defendant Hill, that the plea was true in point of fact,
and was not interposed for delay, and that the defendant Kittson was absent from the State and District of Minnesota.
The plaintiff filed a general replication to the plea, and on
his motion the demurrer of the railway company and the plea
of Kittson and Hill were set down for hearing. The demurrer
of the company was overruled, and on its application it was
ordered that the plea of Kittson and Hill should stand as the
joint and several plea of all the defendants.
The case was then heard'upon thq bill, plea, replication, and
proofs. The only evidence introduced was a stipulation in writing of counsel that the avermnents of the plea, preceding those

FARLEY v. KITTSON.
Opinion of the Court.

above quoted in full, were true; the bill on which the plaintiff
was appointed receiver; an order passed by the court on that
bill on May 31, 1878, reciting that Stevens, Smith, Kittson and
Hill, under an agreement between them and the bondholders,
dated March 13, 1878, were the equitable owners of $11,400,000 of the $15,000,000 issue of bonds, and authorizing Farley
as receiver to finish the roads with money to be supplied by
them; and the deposition of the plaintiff, the substance of
which was, that before the completion of the purchase of the
bonds he informed Kennedy by a letter (which could not be
found) that Kittson and Hill had offered him an interest in it,
in answer to which Kennedy, on February 25, 1878, wrote him
a letter (which he produced), acknowledging the receipt of his
letter, and saying, "We think it will pay you to take an interest with Kittson and Kill, and we are glad to hear that they
have offered it to you;" but that the plaintiff did not disclose
to Kennedy that he had already the same interest that Kittson
and Hill had, because he had agreed with them that he would
not make the fact public, for fear that the stockhold3rs might
hear of it and apply to the court to have him removed and
another receiver appointed, to the detriment of the enterprise,
and of the interests of the bondholders; and that he did not
inform the court of his interest when the order of May 31,1878,
was made.
The Circuit Court, assuming it to be proved that the plaintiff
informed Kennedy of his interest, yet held that the agreement
of the plaintiff with Kittson and Hill was unlawful and void,
and on that ground sustained the plea and dismissed the bill.
4 McCrary, 138. The plaintiff appoaled to this court.
-Yre. Geo'ge F. EdImunds and Mer. fen ry D. Beam for appellant. .3fr. Edward . Cooke was with them on the brief.
Xr1. William Of, Evarts and .31. GeorgeB. Young for appellees. .31>. ff. R. Bigelow was with them on the brief.
MR. Tus'Wrc

GnAY,

after stating the case as above reported,

delivered the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

-

A brief abstract of the pleadings will help to make clear
what is presented for decision upon this record.
The suit was brought by Farley to enforce an agreement by
which he and the defendants Kittson and Hill agreed to purchase, for their joint and equal benefit, the bonds, secured by
mortgages, of two railroads, of one of which he was receiver,
by appointment of the court, and of the other of which he
was the general, manager, by appointment of the trustees
named in the mortgages.
The bill alleged the making of the agTeement; that its
object was, by means of the bonds so purchased, to purchase
the railroads at sales under decrees of foreclosure -in suits then
pending; that it was agreed that Kittson and Hill should
conduct the negotiations for procuring the necessary funds and
purchasing the bonds, and the plaintiff .should furnish such
facts, information and advice, and render such assistance, from
time to time, as should be required of him; that the plaintiff
had knowledge, not possessed by the other parties, as to who
held the bonds and at what rate, and how they could be procured, and as to the nature and value of the railroads, and as
to the pending suits for foreclosure, and his services and cohperation were indispensable to the success of the enterprise;
that he performed the, agreement on his part; that Kittson
and Hill obtained the requisite funds from other persons, and
purchased the bonds from the bondholders 'through one Kennedy, the .authorized agent of the latter, and afterwards purchased the railroads at sales under decrees of foreclosure; that
pending the negotiations for the purchase of the bonds, the
plaintiff informed Kennedy of his interest, and his connection
with Kittson and Hill, in the project to purchase them; that
the plaintiff at all times, to the best of his knowledge "and
ability, gave full and true answers and information to all
inquiries made by Kennedy, or by any of the trustees or bondholders, or by any person interested in the property under his
charge as receiver and as manager, and kept Kennedy- fully
informed of all matters coming to ihis knowledge affecting the
property, and in all things acted honestly and in good faith
towards all persons interested in it; that Kittson and 1ill had

FARLEY v. KITTSON.
Opinion of the Court.

organized a new corporation, which was joined aLs a defendant;
and that the defendants had thereby obtained a great amount
of property and of profits, and had refused to account to the
plaintiff for his share. The bill prayed for a discovery, an
account, and other relief.
The individual defendants filed a plea, which, on the motion
of the defendant corporation, was ordered to stand as its plea
also, consisting of three parts:
First. A restatement in detail of some of the f5.cts alleged
generally in the bill.
Second. Averments that the plaintiff never informed Ken-,
nedy or any'of the bondholders of his interest in the project
for purchasing the bonds and thereby acquiring the mortgaged
property, as alleged in the bill; and that neithe Kennedy nor
the bondholders knew, suspected, or had any information or
belief, that the plaintiff had or claimed to have any interest in
the project, until after the foreclosure sales.
Third. Averments that the making by the plaintiff of the
agreement sued on, and his engaging in the enterprise of purchasing the bonds and thereby acquiring the railroads, were,
as to that railroad of which he was receiver, unlawful, a breach
of his trust as such receiver, and a fraud upon the bondholders
and the court; and, as to the railroad of wichhe was general
manager for the trustees under the mortgages, a breach of
trust towards the trustees and the bondholders, and a fraud
upon them;. and that by reason of the fiduciary positions so
occupied by him the plaintiff was not entitled to the aid of a
couit of equity to enforce the agreement or any rights grTowing out of it.
To this plea the plaintiff filed a general replication, and the
hearing in the Circuit Court was upon the issue thus joined.
The pleader and the court below appear to have proceeded
upon thfe theory that by a plea in equity a defendant may
aver certain facts in addition to or contradiction of those
alleged in the bill; and also not only, if he proves his averments, avail himself of objections in matter of law to the case
stated in the bill, as modified by the facts proved; but even,
if he fails to prove those facts, take any objection to the case

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

stated in the bill, which would have been open to him if he
had demurred generally for want of equity.
But the proper office of a plea is not, like an answer, to
meet all the allegations of the bill; nor like a demurrer,
admitting those allegations, to deny the equity of the bill;
but it is to present some distinct fact, which of itself creates a
bar tQ the suit, or to the part to which the plea applies, and
thus to avoid the necessity of making the discovery asked for,
and the expense of going into the evidence at large. Mitford
P1. (4th ed.) 14, 219, 295; Story Eq. P1. §§ 649, 652.
The plaintiff may either set down the plea for argument, or
file a replication to it. If he sets down the plea for argument,
he thereby admits the truth of all the facts stated in the plea,
and merely denies their sufficiency in point of law to prevent
his recovery. If, on the other hand, he replies to the plea,
joining issue upon the facts averred in it, and so puts the defendant to the trouble and expense of proving his plea, he
thereby, according to the English chancery practice, admits
that if the particular facts stated in the plea are true, they are
sufficient in law to bar his recovery; and if they are proved to
be true, the bill .nust be dismissed, without reference to the
equity arising from any other facts stated in the bill. Mitford
P1. 302, 303; Story Eq. P1. § 697. That practice in this particular has been twice recognized by this court. Hvgthe. v.
Blake, 6 Wheat. 453, 472; Rhode Island v. -Massaechsetts,14
Pet. 210, 257. But the case of Phode Island v. -fassacusetts
ar'ose within its original jurisdiction in equity, for outlines of
the practice in which the court has always looked to the practice of the Court of Chancery in England. Rule 7 of 1791,
1 Cranch, xvii, and 1 How. xxiv; Rule 3 of 1858 and 1884, 21
How. v, and 108 U. S.574. And the case of H-ughes v Blake,
which began in the Circuit Court, was decided here in 1821,
before this court, under the authority conferred upbn it by
Congress, had established the Rules of Practice in Equity in
the Courts of the United States, one of which provides that
"if upon an issue the facts stated in the plea be determined
for the defendant, they shall avail hm as far as in law and
equity they ought to avail him." Rule 19 in Equity of 1822,

FARLEY v. KIITSON.

315

Opiuion of the Court.

7 Wheat. xix; Rule 32 in Equity of 1842, 1 How. li. The
effect of this rule of court when the issue of fact joined on a
plea is determined in the defendant's favor need not, however,
be considered in this case, because it is quite clear that at a
hearing upon plea, replication and proofs, no fact is in issue
between the parties but the truth of the matter pleaded.
In a case so heard, decided by this court in 1808, Chief Justice Marshall said: "In this case the merits of the claim cannot be examined. The only questions before this court are
upon the sufficiency of the plea to bar the action, and the sufficiency of the testimony to support the plea as pleaded." Stead
v. Course, 4 Cranch, 403, 413. In a case before the House of
Lords a year afterwards, Lord Redesdale "observed, that a
plea was a special answer to a bill, differing in this from an
answer in the common form, as it demanded the judgmoent, of
the court, in the first instance, whether the special matter
urged by it did not debar the plaintiff from his title'to that
answer which the bill required. If a plea were allowed,
nothing remained in issue between the parties, so far as the pI a
extended, but the truth of the matter pleaded." "Upon a plea
allowed, nothing is in issue between the parties but the matter
pleaded, and the averments added to support the plea." "Uponargument of a plea, every fact stated in the bill, and not denied by answer in support of the plea, must be taken for true."
Roche v. Ilorgell, 2 Sch. & Lef. 721, 725-727.
The distinction between a demurrer and a plea dates as far
back as the time of Lorl Bacon, by the 58th of whose Ordinances for the Administration of Justice in Chancery, "a demurrer is properly upon matter defective contained in the bill
itself, and no foreign matter; but a plea is of foreign matter
to discharge or stay the suit, as that the cause hath been
formerly dismissed, or that the plaintiff is outlawed or excommimnicated, or there is another bill. depending for the same
cause, or the like." Orders in Chancery (Beames's ed.) 26.
Lord lIedesdale, in his Treatise on Pleadings, says: "A plea
must aver facts to which the plaintiff may reply, and not, in
the nature of a demurrer, rest on facts in the bill." Mitford

Pl. 297. And Mr. Jeremy, in a note to this passage, corn-

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

inenting on the ordinance of Lord Bacon, observes, "The
prominent distinction between a -plea and a demurrer, here
noticed, is strictly true, even of that description of plea which
is termed negative, for it is the affirmative of the proposition
which is stated in the bill;" in other words, a plea, which
avers that a certain fact is not as the bill affirms it to be, sets
up matter not contained in-the'bill. That an objection to the
equity of the plaintiff's claim, as stated in the bill, must be
taken by demurrer and not by plea, is so well established, that
it has been constantly assumed and therefore seldom stated in
judicial opinions; yet there are instances in which it has been
explicitly recognized by other coirts of chancery, as well as
by this court. Billing v. -Right, 1 Madd. 230 ; Steff v. Andrews, 2 YMadd. 6 ; Fahric v. Dodge, 9 Paige, 149 ; Phelps v.
Garulow, 3 Edw. Oh. 139; 1??hode Island v. -fassachuseff, 14
Pet. 210, 258, 262; 3Vational Bank V. Insurance Co., 104

U. S. 5,

6.

It oi4ly remains to apply these elementary principles of equity
pleading to the case before us.
The averments in the first part of the plea, restating. in
detail some of the facts alleged in the bill, were admitted by
stipulation of counsel in writing to be true, and no controveisy
arose upon them.
The substance of the averments in the second part of the
plea was that neither Kennedy, nor the bondholders whose
agent and representative he was, had any notice or knowledge
that the plaintiff had or claimed to have Any interest in the
project set forth in the bill, until after the sales of the railroads
under decrees of foreclosure. The matter of fact thus averred
was put in issue by the replication. The testimony of the
plaintiff, (in connection with Kennedy's letter to him,) which
was uncontradicted, and was the"only evidence upon the matter
pleaded, shows that Kennedy, before the completion of the sale
and purchase of the bonds, knew that the plaintiff was to have
an interest in th6 project, although he may not have known
the extent of that interest, or that it had been already acquired.
The want of any notice to Kennedy and thb bondholders,
averred in the plea, was thus disproved.

FARLEY v. KITTSON.
Opinion'of the Court.

The plea, indeed, is supported by the affidavit of one of the
defendants that it is true in point of fact. But the oath of the
party to its truth in point of fact is added only for the same
purpose as the certificate of counsel that in their opinion it is
well founded in matter of law, in order to comply with the 31st
Rule in Equity, the object of which is to prevent a defendant
from delaying or evading the discovery sought, without showing that the plea is worthy of the consideration of the court.
Ewing v. Bright,, 3 Wall. Jr. 134; T'all v. Stubbs, 2 Ves. & B.
354. An answer under oath is evidence in favor of the defendant, because made in obedience to the demand of the bill for a
discovery, and therefore only so far as it is responsive to the
bill. Seitz v. 3itcell,94 U. S. 580. But a plea, which avoids
the discovery prayed for, is no evidence in the *defendant's
favor, even when it is under oath and negatives a material
averment in the bill. ffeartt v. Corning, 3 Paige, 566.
The allegations of the bill, that the plaintiff at all times, to
the best of his knowledge and ability, gave full and true
answers to all inquiries made by Kennedy or any of the trustees or bondholders, or any person interested in the property
under his charge as receiver and as manager, and in all things
acted honestly and in good faith towards all persons interested
in it, were not denied by the plea, and therefore, for the purposes of the hearing thereon, were conclusively admitted to be
true. So much of the plaintiffs testimony, as tended to show
that he intentionally concealed his interest from the stockholders and from the court, was outside of the averments of the
plea, and therefore irrelevant to the issue to be tried.
The plaintiff having neither moved to set aside the plea as
irregular for want of an answer supporting it, nor set down
the case for hearing upon the bill and plea only, but having
replied to the plea and the only issue of fact thus joined having
been determined by the evidence in his favor, it.is unnecessary
to consider whether the averments of fact in the second part of
the plea ought to have been supported by an answer, or
whether, if proved, they would have made out a defence to
the bill.
The averments in the third part of the plea, that, by reason

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

of the plaintiff's position as receiver and general manager of
the railroads, his entering into the agreement sued on, and
engaging in the enterprise of purchasing the bonds and thereby
acquiring the railroads, were unlawful, and did not entitle him
to the aid of a court of equity to enforce the agreement or any
rights growing out of it, were averments of pure matter of law,
arising upon the plaintiff's case as stated in the bill, and affecting the equity of the bill, and therefore a proper subject of
demurrer, and not to be availed of by plea.
The result is, that the principal question considered by the
court below and argued at the bar is not presented in a form
to be decided upon the record -before us; and that, for the
reasons above stated, and as suggested in behalf of the plaintiff
at the reargument, the plea was erroneously sustained, and
must be overruled, and the defendants ordered, in accordance
with the 34th Rule in Equity, to answer the bill.
.Decree rteversed, and case rtemanded, with di'eelions to overrule the plea, and to order the defendants 'to answer the
bill.

PENSACOLA ICE COMPANY v. PERRY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF"FLORIDA.
Submitted December 20, 1886.-Decided February 7, 1887.

It appearing by the reeorld in this court that the Verdict at the trial of
an action of ejectment in the Circuit Court of the United States sitting

in Florida did not state the quantity of the estate or describe the land,
the judgment was reversed and the cause remanded for a new trial
THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

.Xr. Willianm A. Blount for plaintiff in error.
.A&. TWayne _3e Veagh for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

