OCTOBER TERAI,

1886.

Syllabus.

and admiralty cases, in the circuit and district courts, shall
conform, as near as may be, to the practice, pleadings, and
forms and modes of proceeding existing at the time in like
causes in the courts of record of the state within which such
circuit or district courts are held, any rule of court to the contrary notwithstanding." Effect may be given in the present
case to this-provision of the statute, without running counter
to § 716. The fallacy of the argument against the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court, in such cases, is in construing § 716 as an
exception out of the general grant of jurisdiction to that court
over all suits in which the controversy is between citizens of
different states; whereas it is a general grant of power to issue
all writs necessary to the exercise of their jurisdiction-a
power which would probably have been implied without an,
express grant.
In our judgment, the cases ought not to have been remanded,
and that the judgments of the Circuit Court remanding the
same should, be reversed.

IERRON v. DATER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE' UNITED

STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued January 19, 20, 1887.- Decided March 7, 1887.

In Pennsylvania a warrant and survey, and payment of the purchase money,
confer a legal estate as against all but the Commonwealth, together with
a legal right of en-,ey which will support ejectment; and this action of
ejectment may be maintained by the owner who paid the purchase money,
without any conveyance from the person in whose name the ."pplication
was made and the warrant issued.
The plaintiff in an action of ejectment in Pennsylvania, to prove title, offered
in evidence certified copies of (1) an application numbered 12,969, in the
names of six separate persons for six geparate tracts of four hundred
acres each, adjoining lands of A; (2) of old purchase voucher, dated
November 26, 1793, also numbered 12,969, in the same names, with like
quantities of land also adjoining lands of A; (3) of old purchase blotter
dated June 14, 1794, also numbered 12,969, at the side of which were

HERION 'v. DATER.
Opinion of the Court.
written the words: "A gen'l rec't wrote," and in the body of which,
after the number and date and the name of A, were the words "6 W'r'ts
of 400 a's Am't, 2400 a's 50s p. c!t p'd specie ch. £60 = =. Fees 60
p'd, rem'r charge of 168 D's. Ree't d'd." .Held, (1) That these documents were competent evidence to prove the payment of the money and
by whom itwas paid; (2) That the money for the six tracts was all paid
in full by A; (3)That he was the owner of the warrant by virtue thereof;
(4) That notwithstanding the differences between the date of the application and warrant (November 16, 1793), and the date of the receipt of
the purchase money (June 14, 1794), the issue of the warrant was, in
view of the settled practice in Pennsylvania, evidence of the payment of
the purchase money stfficient to establish prima facie a legal title in A,
which was not liable to be -overcome by a subsequent patent from the
Commonwealth, purporting on its face, but not otherwise proved, to be
counected with the warrant and survey, and under which Ro claim of
title had been asserted for more than seventy-five years.
When the Orphans' Court in Pennsylvania has jurisdiction of a subject
matter, its orders, judgments, and decrees therein cannot be impeached
collaterally.
The plaintiff in ejectment in Pennsylvania having proved title to the premises by establishing a warrant and survey and payment of the purchase
money perfected by return of the deputy surveyor into the land office,
-evidence on the part of the defendant of a subsequent patent from the
Commonwealth, with no proof of its connection with the warrant and
survey except recitals to that effect in it, is inadmissible.
E

TEc
TmrNu,.Plea: The general issue.

Judgment for plain-

tiff. Defendant sued out this writ of error. The case is stated
in the opinion of the court.
-ili. R. P. AlZlen for plaintiffs in error. _MP. A. H -)ill and
31r. John G. Reading, Jr., were with him on the brief.
--Yr. ToAn 1V Byon and 3/r. James Ryon for defendants in
error. .Xr. Samuel Iinn was with them on the brief.
Mm.

TusTicE MhrnEws

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action of ejectment brought by the defendants in
error in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western
District of Pennsylvania to recover possession of a tract of
land situated in Northumberland and Columbia counties, containing about two hundred and thirty acres. There was a
VOL. Cxx-30

OCTOBER TERm,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

verdict and judgment in favor of the plaintiffs below, to reverse which this writ of error is brought.
Both parties claim title under the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. It appears from the bills of exception taken during
the progress of the trial that the plaintiffs put in evidence a
certified copy of a document called an application, No. 12,969,
as follows:
"William Elliott applies for four hundred acres of land on a
branch of Roaring Creek, adjoining Dr. Thomas Ruston's
lands, in Catawissa Township, iNorthumberland County.
".Joseph Tyson applies for four hundred acres of land lying
one mile north of a road leading from Reading to Sunbury,
adjoining Dr. Thomas Ruston's other land, in Catawissa Township, in.North'd County.
"William Shannon applies for four hundred acres of land
lying one mile north of a road leading from Reading to Sunbury, adjoining other lands of Dr. Thomas Rtiston in Catawissa
Township, North'd County.
"Lewis Walker applies for four hundred acres of land lying
one mile north of a road leading from Reading to Sunbury,
adjoini ng Dr. Thomas Ruston's other lands, in Catawissa
Toivnship, North'd County.
"Nathaniel Brown applies for four hundred acres of land
on a branch of Roaring Creek, adjoining Dr. Thomas Ruston's
lands, in Catawissa Township, North'd County.
"Ebenezer Branham applies for four hnndred acres of land
on a branch of Roaring Creek, adjoining Dr. Thomas Ruston's
lands, in Catawissa Township, North'd County."
Also a certified copy of old purchase voucher No. 12,969, as
follows:
"26 November, 1793.
Certified copy of old purchase
voucher No. 12,969. JoseIh Tyson, 400 a's lying one mile
north of a road leading from :Reading to Sunbury, adjoining
Dr. Thomas Ruston's other land, in Northumberland County.
"William Elliott- 400 a's situate on a branch of Roaring
Creek, adjoining Dr. Thomas Ruston's other land, in Catawissa Township,- said county.
"Lewis Walker -400
a's lying one mile north of a road

HERRON

v.

DATER.

Opinion of the Court.

leading from Reading to Sunbury, adjoining Dr. Thomas Ruston's other land, in said county.
"William'Shannon-400 a's lying one mile north of a road
leading from Reading to Sunbury, adjoining Dr. Thomas Ruston's other lands, in said county.
" Ebenezer Branham- 400 a's on a branch of Roaring Creek,
joining Dr. Thomas Ruston, in said county.
"Nathaniel Brown -400 a's on a branch of Roaring Creek,
joining land of Dr. Thomas Ruston, in said county.
"Amount, £60-interest from date thereof.
'[On the side]: A gen'l rec't wrote."
The plaintiffs also offered in evidence a copy of old purchase
blotter No. 12,969, as follows:
"1794,
12969.
June 14.
Dr. Ruston. 6 W'r'ts of 400 a's An t,
2400 a's, 50s p. c't p'd specie oh.,
£60 = =
Fees 60s p'd, rem'r charge of 168 D's.
"Re't d'd."
To this the counsel for. the defendants objected on two
grounds: 1st, that the warrant to Lewis Walker appearing to
be dated November 26, 1793, it was not competent to prove
payment of the purchase money by Ruston on- June 14, 1794;
and, 2d, that if any title whatever accrued to Ruston, it would
be but a resulting trust, as the plaintiffs did not propose to
follow it with any evidence showing a conveyance of the legal
title to 'Ruston or those claiming under him, or any possession
of the land by him or them, or the bringing of any action of
ejectment to recover it within twenty-one years from the date
of the warrant. The objections were overruled, and an exception taken.
The plaintiffs also put in evidence a copy of the warrant to
Lewis Walker, dated the 26th of November, 1793, for 400
acres adjoining Dr. Thomas Ruston's other lands; and a copy
of a survey for Lewis Walker, dated the 22d of October, 1794,
in pursuance of the warrant, containing 3711 acres. The
survey was followed by a certified copy of the retdrn made
by William Gray, deputy surveyor, into the land office, show-

OCTOBER TERAI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

ing that on February 23, 1795, he returned to the land office
the Lewis Walker survey for 3711 acres. Warrants and
surveys of five other tracts were introduced in evidence in
connection with the warrant and survey of the Lewis Walker
tract, being the same tracts of land which are mentioned'in
the application and purchase voucher. The plaintiffs then
traced title into Nicholas Le Favre by virtue of a judgment
against Thomas iRuston in 1796, and levy on lands of the
defendant Ruston, including the Lewis Walker tract, and a
sale and conveyance of the same to Le Favre by a marshal's
deed. Nicholas Le Favre having died, his will was achnitted
to probate on the 12th of August, 1815, on which day William
R. Smith took out letters of administration with the will
annexed. A schedule attached to the will of the testator, of
his lands in Pennsylvania, inclhded the Lewis Walker tract
for 3711 acres. In 1836, William IR. Smith, the administrator
with the will annexed of Nicholas Le Favre, petitioned the
Orphans' Court of Philadelphia for an order to sell real estate
to pay the debts of the decedent. By further proceedings
upon said application in the Orphans' Court of Northumberland County, where a portion of the lands of Le Favre were
located, a decree of sale was obtained, and the Lewis Walker
tract, among others, was sold on the 9th of May, 1837, to
Joseph Brobst,.as the property of Nicholas Ie Favre. A deed
was made to Brobst for the land, and the sale confirmed in
Northumberland County, where the lands were located. By
sundry mesne conveyances the title of Brobst was vested in
the plaintiffs below.
There was evidence tending to show that the lands in controversy were wild and unimproved until 1864, when the
parties through whom the plaintiffs claim title took actual
possession thereof, and improved the same by the erection of
a house and sawmill, and put to work a corps of men for the
purpose of proving the coal veins. These operations and
expenditures were continued for a period of about eighteen
months, at a cost of between $40,0O0 a-d $50,000, when the
work was suspended as not being profitable, but possession
was maintained through agents and tenants until 1875, when
the defendants took forcible possession, claiming title.

IHERRON v. DATER.
Opinion of the Court.

The defendants below objected to the admission in evidence
*of the records from the Orphans' Court of Philadelphia,
showing the proceedings resulting in the sale of the lands of
Nicholas Le Favre to Joseph Brobst, on the grou:nd that the
debts of the decedent, as set forth in the petition of the
administrator, to pay which the order of sale issued, were
barred by the statute of limitations and their lien extingaished, by reason of which it was claimed that the Orphans'
Court had no jurisdiction to grant the order. The objection
was overruled, and an exception taken.
There was also evidence introduced by the plaintiffs, which
was objected to, tending to show payment of taxes by those
under whom th6 plaintiffs claim.
The defendants below offered in evidence on 'their part an
application of Daniel Reese, Lewis Walker, and others, filed
in the land office November 26, 1793, indorsed "Ent'd by
Win. Lane for Daniel Rees;" also the warrant from the Commonwealth to Lewis Walker for 400 acres, dated November
26, 1793; also the survey to Lewis Walker made October 22,
1794, in pursuance of the warrant of November 26, 1793, describing the tract in dispute; and then offered a certified copy
of a patent from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania to Peter
Grahl, dated April 12, 1*797, for the same tract, which patent
contained a recital to the effect that Lewis Walker, by deed
dated November 27, 1793, had conveyed the said tract with
the appurtenancs to Peter Grahl. Counsel for the plaintiffs
below objected to the introduction in evidence of this patent
on the ground that Dr. Ruston held a prior title to the land
from the Coimnonwealth. This objection was sustained, the
court refusing to allow the patent to be read to the jury, to
which the defendants excepted.
The defendants below then renewed the offer of the patent
to Peter Grahl for the land in dispute, in connection with an
offer to prove a connected chain of title from Peter Grahl to
themselves, to be followed by proof that they took actual
possession of the land in dispute in 1875, paid taxes by redeeming the land from tax sales, made improvements, extended
large sums of money in opening coal mines, and have ever

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

since held actual possession of the land; and also that Nicholas
Le Favre, who purchased the alleged title of Dr. Ruston at
marshal's sale on October 11, 1803, received notice in October,
1814, of the title of Peter Grahl under the patent to him, and
that the plaintiffs below, when they purchased at sheriff's sale
in 1872, received notice of the same facts. This offer was rejected, and an exception duly taken.
The court below also refused to allow the defendants to read
in evidence certain parts of the return of William Gray, deputy
surveyor, to the commissioners of Northumberland County,
made in 1796, other parts of which had been read by the
plaintiffs below, in order to show that the taxes paid by Dr.
Ruston on the lands which he did in fact ofn in the same
county, and paid into the same office during the same time,
were paid to or by a different person than the taxes paid on
the land. in dispute; and to show that there was another tract
surveyed by the Commonwealth in the same locality and in
the same county in the name of Lewis Walker as warrantee,
which was claimed by Dr. IRuston. These offers were also
rejected by the court, to which ruling the defendants excepted.
The court below charged the jury, among other things, as
follows:
"The plaintiffs put in evidence a certified copy of an ancient
paper, dated November 26th, 1793, on file in the land office,
designated as old purchase voucher No. 12,969, and in connection therewith a certified copy of an entry, under date of June
14th, 1794, from the old purchase blotter in the land office.
These documents were offered to show, and they are evidence
tending to show, that Dr. Thomas IRuston was the owner of
the Lewis Walker warrant, and paid to the Commonwealth
'the purchase money for said tract of land."
And also:
-1The plaintiffs have shown that by sundry mesne conveyances the title which Nicholas Le Favre thus acquired became
vested in them prior to the bringing of this action. In connection with their paper title the plaintiffs gave evidence tending to show that for many years they and those under whom

HERRON v. DATER.
Opinion of the Court.

they claim asserted title to the land and paid taxes thereon
without any hostile claim being set up against them until the
year 1875, when the defendants took possession. If the evidence on the part of the plaintiffs is believed by the jury, it
makes out a prirn facie case for the plaintiffs, and they are
entitled to your verdict upon this branch of their title."
To these charges the defendants excepted. These several
rulings of the court are now assigned for error.
In the case of Sin v. Irvirn, 3 Dall. 424, which was an
ejectment for land lying in Pennsylvania, decided by this court
in 1799, it was said that, in that state, "payment, or, as in this
case, consideration passed, and a survey, though unaccompanied by a patent, gave a legal right of entry which is sufficient
in ejectment. Why they have been adjudged to give such
right, whether from a defect of chancery powers or for other
reasons of policy or justice, is not now material. The right once
having become an established legal right, and having incorporated itself as such with property and tenures, it remains a
legal right notwithstanding any new distribution of judicial
powers, and must be regarded by the common law courts of
the United States in Pennsylvania as a rule of decision."
The case of Evans v. Patterson,4 Wall. 221, 230, decided in
1886, was similar. In that case Mjfr. Justice Grier, delivering the opinion of the court, said : "The case cannot be made
intelligible without a brief notice of the very peculiar land law
of Pennsylvania. The proprietors of the province, in the beginning, allowed no one man to locate and survey more than
three hundred acres.* To evade this rule in after times, it was
the custom. for speculators in land to make application in the
names of third persons, and, having obtained a warrant, to
take from them'what was called a "deed-poll" or a. brief conveyance of their inchoate equitable claim. Pennsylvania, until
of late years, had no courts of equity. Hence, in an action of
ejection, the plaintiff might recover without showing a legal
title. If he had a prior inchoate or equitable title, either as
trustee or emstui que trust,he might recover. The courts treated
the applicant, or warrantee, as trustee for the party who paid
the purchase money, or paid even the surveying fees; for the

OCTOBER TERM; 1886.
Opinion of the CourC.L

purchase money, under the location or application system, was
not paid at the time, and sometimes never. When the state
succeeded to the title of the proprietors, the application system
was abandoned, and warrants were granted on payment of the
purchase money for the number of acres for which his warrant
called. Hence, where the claimant of the warrant was unable to
show his deed-poll, he might recover by showing that he paid the
purchase money; that the warrantee whose name was used was,
therefore, trustee for him. And an ejectment might also bemaintained in the name of the warrantee, although he had no
beneficial interest in the land, and had no knowledge of the
institution of the suit. See Cainpbell v. Galbreath,1 Watts, 78,
and also Ross v. Barker, 5 Watts, 391, which was decided on
the title now in question."
It is equally well established' that the action of ejectment
may be maintained upon a warrant and survey by the owner
who paid the purchase money, without any qonveyance from
the person in whose name the application was made and the
warrant issued. Brown v. Galloway,Peters 0.C. 291; Villink
v. AfXiles, Peters 0.C. 429. It was said by MUr. Justice Washington in Huidekoperv. Burrus,1 Wash. C. C. 109, 113, that
"the person' whose name appears on the warrant is considered
as merely a nominal grantee, and a trustee for the person who
pays for the warrant and has it executed;" stating, as a matter
of fact in the history of the practice of the state, that " whereever one person takes out many warrants he borrows the
names of certain persons, no matter *ho they are."* See also
Grifita v. Tunckhouser, Peters C. C. 418; James v. Gordon,
1 Wash. C. 0. 333 ; Copley v. Riddle, 2 Wash. 0. C. 354. This
doctrine is established as the law of* Pennsylvania by many
decisions of the Supreme Court of that state. In DTerv. Boyd,
1 S. & IR.203, 210, that court said: "For above fifty years
past lands held by warrant and survey, without patents, have
been considered as the legal estate in England, subject to the
liens of judgments, courtesy, dower, and other incidents of real
property,
In _Melay v. TF'ork, 5 Bin'ney, 154, 158, it is said: "An estate
held by warrant and survey, or other imperfect title, without

HERRON v. DATER.
Opiniou of the Court.

patent, is of a singular nature. In many, and indeed in most
respects, it is considered as a legal estate against all persons
but the corimonwealth. It is subject to the same laws of
descent, devise, and conveyance as the legal estate. Tenancy
by the courtesy and in dower are attached to it. An ejectment
may be supported on it." And in Gingrick v. -Foltz,19 Penn.
St. 38, 40 S.C.57 Am. Dec. 631], it is said: "In Pennsylvania a warrant and survey, attended with payment of the
purchase money, is to be considered, as against all but the
commonwealth, in the same light as the legal estate in England, and is not to be distinguished, as to the mode .of conveying, entailing, and barring entails, from estates strictly legal.
If the warrant, survey, and payment of the purchase
the legal title, it is impossible to comprehend
constitute
money
how the commonwealth can, by any act -whatever, after she
has parted with that title, prejudice, much less extinguish, it."
Upon this view of the law, it appears from the record that
the plaintiffs below proved a legal title to the -Lewis -Walker
tract in controversy in Dr. Thomas Ruston. The old purchase
voucher -No. 12,969, offered in evidence, shows that the purchase money for the six tracts described was paid by one
person; and the receipt, being a copy from the old purchase
blotter, also No. 12,969 to correspond,,shows that the owner of
the warrants, by virtue of the payment of the purchase
money, was Dr. Ruston.
Counsel for the plaintiffs in error seek to read the abbreviations in that extract from the old purchase blotter as showing
that the purchase money had not been paid in full, but we
think it otherwise sufficiently appears, not only on the face of
the receipt itself, but also from the statement on the margin
of the old purchase voucher, that a general receipt had been
given, corroborated by the fact that the warrants were actually issued.
A point is made on behalf of the plaintiffs in error that the
issu3 of the warrant cannot be considered as evidence of the
payment of the purchas6 money, because it is dated prior to
the date of the receipt taken from the old purchase blotter,
the warrant being dated the 26th of November, 1793, and the

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

receipt the 14th of June, 1794. This, however is explained
by the practice, known to have existed, that while a warrant
was never issued except after the payment of the purchase
money, yet it was dated as of the date of the entry in the old
purchase voucher, which was the authority given to the surveyor to locate the land, the warrant being subsequently
issued so as to relate back to that date.
In Br'own v. Galloway, Peters 0. 0. 291, XM r. Justice Washington said: A warrant for land "according to long and uniform practice, is dated as of the day of the application, although it is retained until the purchase money is paid, when,
and not before, it issues to the party." To the same effect is
Lewi v. .e redith, 3 Wash. 0. C. 81.
The competency and value of the two documents from the
old purchase voucher and the old purchase blotter, to prove
the fact of the payment of the purchase money, and by whom
it was paid, are stated by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania,
in the case of .Olip ant v. Ferren,1 Watts, 57. It is there said
that these entries were made by John Keble, who was chief
clerk in the Receiver General's Office. Prior to 1823, proof of
the payment of the purchase money was made by the production of the original receipt, or the testimony of Keble during
his lifetime, and after his death, proof of his handwriting and
entry in these books. In 1823, however, by a statute passed
during that year, th e books themselves, and copies from them,
were made primcfacie evidence.
The matter is thus explained by Judge Huston in his Essay
on the History and lNature of Original Titles to Land in the
Province and State of Pennsylvania, Charles Huston, p. 335:
"Even on warrants where money was paid, there -was sometimes difficulty as to who was the owner. The warrant, being
in a name different from that of the claimant on its face,
proved nothing. Where the owner, when he took out his
warrant, took a receipt for his purchase money and preserved

it, this often decided the question of ownership, and it becime
usual for a plaintiff to recover on such a receipt, without producing any conveyance from the person whose nlame was used
in the warrant. But, where the owner either took no receipt,

HERRON v. DATER.
Opiuion of the Court.

or it was lost or mislaid, the ownership must be proved by,
other means. The common books of the land office charged
the warrantee with the land and credited him with the payment of the money. When it became necessary to pay the
money before you got the'warrant, and while John Keble
was chief clerk in the Receiver General's Office, he kept an
account of who paid the money on every warrant sealed in.
that office. The entry, however, is nQt easily understood,
except by those acquainted with the office. Every application
was numbered successively, as they were handed in, from one
up to near twenty thousand. Some of these applications
were for a single tract, and many for more than -one hundred,
the last written on a single sheet of p.per, or several sheets
attached together. On each of these was marked the date when
filed, and the name of the man who payed the money always
appeared. When you applied for a warrant, there were marks
by which you could refer to and find the application, and
from the application and its number 9nd date, you could find
the entry in John Keble's blotter, and there see who paid th
purchase money. The right to many tracts has been ascertained by searching as here mentioned; -nd a copy of that
blotter under seal of office, is now evidence in a court of
justice, by a particular act of assembly. So careful was John
Keble that if the person who paid the money told him by whom
it was sent, that also appeared in the blotter." Vide, also,
Cartlpbell v. Galbreath, 1 Watts, 70.
There is nothing in thezcase of Stfrimfler v. 1?olerts, 18.
Penn. St. 283 [S. C. 57 Am. Dec. 606], cited and relied
upon by the plaintiffs in error, inconsistent with the foregoing. In that case the plaintiffs in the ejectment were
,perinitted to prove that Benson, under whom they claimed,
had paid the purchase money, and they did so by the blotters, vouchers, &c., as in the present instance; and it was
admitted and decided in that case that such -proof established a _prima facie title in them, but one, however, which
might be overcome by proof of the fact that Benson, who
appeared to have paid the purchase money, had done so,
not on his own behalf, but as agent for others; and that fact

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court

being made to appear, it was held that a patent issued to the
assignee of the warrantee conveyed a superior legal title.
The conclusion is sumnmed up by Chief Justice Black, in the
opinion of the court, as follows (p. 302): "That where a warrant is issued to one person and the purchase money is paid
by another, and the patent is afterwards taken out by the
nominal warrantee, the right of him who paid the purchase
money is gone, unless he takes possession of the land or brings
ejectment to recover it within twenty-one years from the date
of the warrant; and after that lapse of time he cannot recover,
no matter how clearly he may be able to prove that the legal
owner was in the beginning a trustee for him.

.

.

.

When

I say that the suit must be brought within twenty-one years
from the date of the warrant, I speak of a case like the present one in which the alleged trust is proved by the naked and
solitary fact of the payment of purchase money. Where the
eestui que trust has superintended the survey, 'and paid the
officer's fees, or exercised other acts of ownership over the land,
the presumption in favor of the trustee would perhaps not
begin to arise until he did some act of hostility, such as selling
his title, or taking out a patent to himself."
In the present case the evidence admitted was held to establish a lprinafacie legal title in Dr. Thomas Ruston. It was
sufficient to establish that he paid the purchase money, and
the other proof in the case showed that he and those who
claimed under him exercised acts of ownership over the property until their possession was disturbed violently by the
defendants below in the year 1875. The defendants were
able to offer nothing in opposition to this, except the patent
under which there had been no claim of title for more than
seventy-five years, and which was not connected by any proof,
other than its own recitals, with the warrant and survey.
In Glass v. Gilbert,58 Penn. St. 266, it was decided that the
doctrine of Strimpj&r v. Robeits, 18 Penn. St. 283 [/.C..57
Am. Dec. 606], and M1e.Barron v. Glass, 30 Penn. St. 133, that
a trust will not be sustained between the warrantee and one
who has paid the purchase money after twenty-one years, without possession taken by the claimant, &c., does not applyto a

HERRON v. DATER.
Opinion of the Court.

stranger to the title of the warrantee. If twenty-one years
elapse before interference by a junior survey, the presumption
in favor of the first, although a chamber survey, becomes absolute. It follows from the foregoing that the evidence introduced by the plaintiffs below was competent and sufficient to
establish in Dr. Ruston a legal title to the lands in question.
The next assignment of error is founded upon the objection
made to the admission of the record and proceedings in the
Orphans' Court of Philadelphia County, resulting in the sale
of the title of Nicholas Le Favre to the Lewis Walker tract to
Joseph Brobst, by the deed of May 9, 1831. This objection
was, that it appeared from the face of the petition for the sale
of the real estate of the decedent that the debts, to pay which
it was alleged that the sale was necessary, were barred by the
statute of limitations, and that, as a consequence, the Orphans'
Court had no jurisdiction to make the order of sale. The
course of proceeding taken in the present case, as shown by
the transcript, was, 1st, a petition to the Orphans' Court of
Philadelphia for authority to sell, that being the court which
had jurisdiction of the accounts of the executor; 2d, a petition
to the Orphans' Court of Northumberland County, in which
the land was situated, an order of sale granted thereon, and
sale made, and, as required by the express provisions of the
statute of 1832, then in force, the return of the sale made to
and confirmed by the same court sitting in the county where
the land is situated. It is'scarcely necessary to cite authority
in support of the proposition that the orders, judgments, and
decrees of the Orphans' Court, in a case where it had jurisdiction of the subject-matter, cannot be impeached collaferally;
much less is it so in the present case, because the statute of
Pennsylvania of March 29, 1832, 2 Brightly's Purdon's Digest,
p. 1279, pl. 3, (11th ed.,) provides as follows: "The Orphans'
Court is hereby declared to be a cpurt of record, with all the
qualities and incidents of a court of record at common law;
its proceedings and decrees in all matters within its jurisdiction shall not be reversed or avoided collaterally in any other
court; but they shall be liable to reversal or modification or
alteration on appeal to the Supreme Court, as hereinafter

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

directed." Iddings v. Cailyts, 2 Grant (Penn.), 88; Riland v.
.Fokree, 23 Penn. St. 215. In -Dreishnerv. Allentown Water
Co., 52 Penn. St. 225, 229, Mr. Justice Strong said: "Orphans'
Court decrees are doubtless conclusive. They cannot be impeached collaterally."
The next assignment of error is foinded ripon the refusal of
the court to admit as evidence the certified copy of the patent
from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania to Peter Grahl, dated
April 12, 1797, with a recital therein of the fact, that Lewis
Walker, by deed dated November 27, 1793, had conveyed the
tract in.question to Peter Grahl. The 'legal title of Thomas
:Ruston to the premises in dispute, established by the warrant
and survey and payment of the purchase money, was perfected
by the return made by the deputy surveyor into the land office
on February 23, 1795. According to the doctrine established
by the authorities already cited, it was not competent for the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania to affect that title by a subsequent patent to a stranger. Peter Grahi, the patentee, was
not connected with the title under the warant and survey,
otherwise than by the recital contained in the patent itself,
that the.tract had been previously conveyed to him by Lewis
Walker. Clearly that recital was not evidence against the
plaintiffs, for, if the patent could not take effect against them
without it, it could not give any effect to that recital. Their
right had already vested prior to the existence of the patent,
and the grant to them could not be affected by a subsequent
grant to a stranger. That such is the uniform course of decisions in Pennsylvania appears by numerous cases. Penrose v.
Griflth,4 ]Binney, 231 ; Mfaelay v. Work, 5 IBinney, 154; Woods
v. Wilson, 37 Penn. St. 379 ; -Delaware &f Judson Canal Co.
v. Dimock, 47 Penn. St. 393; Urket v. Coryell, 5 W. & S. 60 ;
Balliott v. Bauman, 5 W. & S. 150, 155; Smit v. 7asbinder,
77 Penn. St., 127, 130.
It is next assigned for error that the couit below erred in
rejecting that portion of the return of William Gray, deputy
surveyor, offered to be read in evidence by the defendants
below. That portion of the return related to other surveys in
the same townshaip, returned as belonging to Dr. IRuston, and

UNITED STATES v. ARJONA.
Syllabus.

was offered for the ostensible purpose of explaining that part
of the retmun of William Gray, the deputy surveyor, and the
assessment for taxes received in evidence on the part of the
plaintiff below, and in order to show that the taxes alleged to
have been paid by Dr. Thomas Ruston might have been paid
upon other tracts than the Lewis Walker tract in controversy.
It seems to us, however, very clear that the offer was rightly
rejected; that the part of the return offered related to other
lands than the tract in question, was wholly irrelevant to the
issue in the case, and did not tend to prove any material
fact.
Neither was there any error in the other rulings of the court
excepted to, in reference to other offers of evidence by the
defendants below, made with the view of showing that Thomas
Ruston paid taxes and made claims to other surveys in the
name of Lewis Walker than that of the tract in dispute. None
of them tended to show that Ruston was not the owner of the
Lewis Walker tract in controversy, wbatever they may have
shown with reference to his claims to other tracts for which
warrants and surveys had been made in the same name.
This disposes of all the questions. raised by the assignments
of error.
We find no error in the record, and the judgment is accordingly
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. ARTONA.
,ERTXFICATEOF DIVISION FROMN THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UITED
STATES "FOR THE SOUTHERN

DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Submitted January 3, 18S7.-Decided March 7, 18S7.

It is within the constitutional power of Congress to enact laws to provide for the punishment of the offences of counterfeiting notes of a
foreign bank or corporation," or of having in possession a plate from
which may be printed counterfeits of the notes of a foreign bank or
corporation; and it is not necessary to allege in an indictment for such
an offence, oe to show, that the notes of such a bank or corporation
are notes of money or issue of a foreign Government, sovereign, or

