OCTOBER ,TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

ter, as such assignee, had the right to appear in that suit and
have the amount due Heiskell, Scott, & Heiskell determined.
It may be that, according to the practice in Tennessee, if he
had not appeared, Heiskell, Scott, & Heiskell would have been
compelled to bring a new suit to have the amount ?f their Alen
ascertained; but as he did appear and did ask to have the matter adjudicated in that suit, he was bound by-what was done.
As the court had declared the lien, it was within its jurisdiction
to ascertain, with the consent of all the parties, the amount
that was due under the lien and make the necessary order for
its enforcement as against those who were parties to that suit.
About this we have no doubt.
2. We said: "The question here is, not whether that decree
thus rendered binds these appellants, (plaintiffs in error,) but
whether the state court had jurisdiction so as to bind those
who were parties to the suit, and those whom the parties in
law represented." The assignee having.voluntarily made himself a party to the suit, and the court having at his request
settled the amount of the lien, he was bound by what was done,
and so were all whom he in law represented in the litigation.
That certainly includes the general creditors of the bankrupt;
but whether it does those claiming under the trust deed from
Townsend, before his bankruptcy, to George IV. Winchester,
trustee, we did not then and do not now decide.

IN
APP'FA

FROM THE THIRD

RE SNOW
JUDICIAL

COU=nT,

DISTRICT COURT, SALT LAXE

UTAH.

Argued J.nuary 21, 1837.-Decided February 7,1887.

Where a District Court in the Territory of Utah refuses to issue a writ of
habeas cot/pus involving the question of personal freedom, an appeal lies
tO this court from its order and judgment of refusal.
The offence of cohabiting with more than one woman, created by §,3 of the
act of Congress of Mlarch 22, 1882, c. 47, 22 Stat. 31, is a continuous

offence, and not one consisting of an isolated act.

•IN RE SNOW
Opinion of the Court.
S. was convicted separately in a District Court of the Territory of Utah, on
three indictments under that section, covering together a continuous
period of time, each covering a different part, but the three parts being
continuous, the indictments being found at the same time, by the same
grand jury, on one oath and one examination, of the same witnesses, covering the whole continuous time. One judgment was enteied on the
three convictions. It first imposed a term of imprisonment and a fine.
It next imposed two further successive -hrms of imprisonment, each to
begin at the expiration of the last preceding sentence and judgiaent, with
two further fines. -It set forth the time emb,aced by each indictment
and specified each of the three Punishments as being imposed ip respect
of a specified one of the indictments. On a petition to aDistriet Court of
the Territory, by the defendant, for a writ-of habeas copus, setting forth
that he had been imprisoned under the-judgment for more than the term
first imposed, and had paid the fine first imposed, and that the other two
punishments were in excess of the authority of the trial court; the writ
was refused. On appeal to this court; Held,
(1) There was but one entire offence for the continuous time.
(2) The trial court had no jurisdiction to inflict a punishment in respect
of more than one of the convictions.
(3) As the waut of jurisdiction appeared on the face of the proceedings,
the defendant could be released from imprisonment on a habeas corpus.
(4) The order and judgment of the court below must be reversed, and
the case be remanded to that court, with a direction to grant the writ
of habeas copus prayed for.

THis was an appeal from an order of court refusing an application for a writ of habeas corpus. The case is stated in the
opinion of the court.

-3'. George Ticknor Curtis and 0&. Franklin . Richards
for appellant.
K-fr. Assistant 'Attorney General .3Yaury for the United
States.
Mi. JusTICE BIATcorn delivered the opinion of the court.

Section 3 of the act of Congress approved March 22, 1882, c.
47, 22 Stat. 31, provides as follows: "Sec. 3. That if any male
person, in a territory or other place over which the United
States have exclusive jurisdiction, hereafter cohabits with more
than one woman, he shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

and on conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not
more than three hundred dollars, or by imprisonment for not
more than six months, or ,by both said punishments, in the
discretion of the court."
The grand jury of the United States for November Term,
1885, in the District Court of the First Judicial District in and
for the Territory of Utah, on the 5th of December, 1885, presen~ed and filed in that court, in open court, three several indictments, in the name of the United States, against Lorenzo
Snow, each of them found December 2, 1885, designated as
No. 741, No. '742, and No. 743. Each of them was founded
on the foregoing statute, and they were alike in all respects
except that each covered a different period of time. No. 741
alleged that Snow, on the 1st of January, 1883, "at the county
of Box Elder, in-the said district, territory aforesaid, and
within the jurisdiction of this court, and on divers other days
and times thereafter, and coitinuoisly between said first day
of January, A.D. 1883, and the thirty-first day of December,
A.D. 1883, did then and there unlawfully live and cohabit
with more than one woman, to wit, with Adeline Snow, Sarah
Snow, Harriet Snow, Eleanor Snow, Mary H. Snow, Phcebe
W. Snow, and Minnie Jensen Snow, and during all the period
aforesaid, at the county aforesaid, he, the said Lorenzo Snow,
did unlawfully claim, live, and cohabit with all of said women
as his vives." No. 742 alleged that Snow, on the 1st of January, 1885,." and on divers other days and times thereafter,
and continuously between said first day of January, A.D.
1885, and the first day of December, A.D. 1885, did then and:
there unlawfully live and cohabit with more than one woman,
to wit, with" the seven persons above named, "and during all
the period aforesaid" " did unlawfully claim, live, and cohabit
with all of said women as his wives." No. 743 alleged that
Snow, on the 1st of January, 1884, "and on divers other days
and times thereafter, and continuously between said first day
of January, A.D. 1884, and the thirty-first day of Decerfiber,
A.D. 1884, did then and there unlawfully live and cohabit
with more than one woman, to wit, with" the seven persons
above named, "and during all the period aforesaid" "did un-

IN RE SNOW.

."277

Opinion of the Court.

lawfully claim, live, and cohabit with all of said women as his
wives."
At the time of filing each indictment it was properly indorsed "a true bill, etc., and with the names of the witnesses."
The same sixteen witnesses were examined before the grand
jury, "on one oath and one examination, as to the alleged
offence during the entire time mentioned in all of said three
indictments, and" they were found "upon the testimony of
witnesses given on an examination covering the whole time
specified in said three indictments." On the 11th of December, 1885, the defendant was arraigned on each of the three
indictments, and interposed a demurrer to each, which being
overruled, he pleaded not guilty to each.
Indictment No. 742 was first tried, covering the period from
and including January 1, 1885, to December 1, 1885. On the
31st of December, 1885, a verdict of guilty was rendered, and
the court fixed the 16th of January,.1886, as the time for passing sentence.
Indictment 743 was next tried, covering the period from and
including-January 1, 1884, to December 31, 1884. The defendant orally put in an additional plea in bar, setting up his prior
conviction on indictment No. 742; and that the offence charged
in all of the indictments was one continuous offence and the
same offence, and not divisible. On an oral demurrer to this
plea, the demurrer was sustained. On the trial by the jury, a
verdict of guilty was rendered on the 5th of January, 1886,
and the court fixed the 16th of January, 1886, as the time for
passing sentence. -Indictment No. 741 was next tried, covering the period from
and including January 1, 1883, to December 31, 1883. The
defendant orally put in an additional plea in bar, setting up
his prior convictions on indictments Nos. 742 and 743; and
that the offence charged in all of the indictments was one continuous offence, and the same offence, and not divisible. On
an oral demurrer to this plea, the demurrer was sustained.

On the trial by the jury, a verdict of guilty was rendered on
the 5th of January, 1886, and the court fixed the 16th of January, 1886, as the time for passing sentence.

OCTOBER TERM,

1886.

Opinion of the- Court,

The record of the court states that on the last-named day
the following proceedings took place, in open court:
"(Title of court and cause.)
"The defendant and hi-, counsel, F: S. TRichards, and C. C.
:Richards, Esq'rs (of counsel) came into court. The defendant
was (July informed of the nature of the indictments- found
against him on the 5th day of December, 1885, by the grand
jury of this court, for the crime of unlawful cohabitation,
committed as stated in said indictments, and during the time,
as follows, viz.: Indictment No. 741, between the first day of
January, A.D. 1883, and the thirty-first day of December,
A.D. 1883; indictment No. 742, between the first day of January, A.D. 1885, and the first day of December, A.D. 1885;
indictment No. '743, between the first day of January, A.D..
1884,- and the thirty-first day of December, A.D., 1881; of his
arraignment and plea of not guilty as chaiged in said three
indictments, on the sixteenth day of December, A.D. "1885; of
his trial and the verdicts of the juries; indictment No. 742,
' Guilty as charged in the indictment,' on December 31, 1885;
indictment No. 7-3, ' Guilty as charged in the indictment,' on
January 5, 1886; indictment No. 741, 'Guilty as charged in
the indictment,' on January 5, 1886.
"The said defendant was then asked if he had any legal
cause to show why judgment should not be pronounced against
him, to which he replied that he had none; and no sufficient
.cause being shown or appearing to the court, thereupon the
court renders its judgment, that whereas said Lorenzo Snow
having been duly convicted in this court of the crime of unlawful cohabitation:
"It is ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that said Lorenzo
Snow be inmprisoned in the penitentiary of the Territory of
Utah for a period of six months, and that he do forfeit and
pay to the United States a fine of three hundred dollars and
the costs of this prosecuticn, and that he do stand committed
into the custody of the United Statestmarshal for said territory
until such fine and costs be paid in full. (As to indictment
No. 741.)

IN RE SNOW.
Opinion of the Court.

"And it is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that at
the expiration of the sentence- and judgment rendered 6n said
indictment No. 741, said Lorenzo Snow be imprisoned in the
penitentiary of Utah Territory. for a .period of six months, and
that he do forfeit and p~y to the United States the sum of
three hundred ° dollars and the costs of this prosecution, and
that he do stand committed into the custody of the United
States marshal for said territory until such fine and costs be
paid in full. (As to indictment No. 742.)
"And it is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that at
the expiration of the sentence and judgment, as last above rendered, on said indictment No. 742, said Lorenzo, Snow be imprisoned in the penitentiary of Utah Territory for a period of
six months, and that he do forfeit and pay to the United
States the sum of three hundred dollars and the costs of this
prosecution, and that he do stand committed into the custody
of the United States marshal for said territory until such fine
and costs be paid in full. (As to indictment No. 743.)
"The said defendant, Lorenzo Snow, is remanded into the
custody of the United States marshal for Utah Territory, to
be by him delivered into the custody-of the warden or other
proper officer in charge of said penitentiary; and said warden
or other proper officer of said penitentiary is hereby commanded to receive of and from the said United States,
marshal, him, the said Lorenzo Snow, convicted and sentenced
as aforesaid, and him, the said Lorenzo Snow, keep and
imprison in said penitentiary for the periods as in this
judgment ordered and specified.
"OrL-bo W. PowErs, Judg'e."
On the 22d of October, 1886, the defendant, filed in the
District Court of the Third Judicial District of the Territory
of Utah a petition setting forth that he is a prisoner confined
in the penitentiary of the Territory of Utah, "by virtue of
the warrant, judgment, and proceedings of record, including.
three indictments against your petitioner, his arraignment
thereon, and pleas thereto, respectively, as well as demurrers
to such pleas, decisions thereof, and verdicts of the jury,

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

being the record of said matteis in the District Court of the
First Judicial District of the Territory of Utah," copies of all
which papers, sixteen in number, were annexed to the petition;
that, under said judgment, and in execution thereof, he had been
imprisoned in said penitentiary for inore than six months, to
wit, continuously since the 12th day of :March, 1886, and had
paid $300 in satisfaction of the fine adjudged against him, and
"all the costs awarded and assessed against him on said
prosecution;" that his imprisonment is illegal in that "the
court had no jurisdiction to pass judgment" against him
"upon more than one of the indictments or records referred to
in its said judgment, for the reason that the offence therein
set out is the same as that contained and set out in each of
the other said indictments and records, and the maximum
punishment which the court had authority to impose was
six months' imprisonment and a fine of three hundred dollars;" and "that by his said imprisonment your petitioner is
being punished twice for one and the same offence." The
prayer is for a writ of habeas cowpws, to the end that the
petiti6ner may be discharged from custody.
On a hearing on the petition the following order was
made by the court, on the 23d of October, 1886:
"The petition of Lorenzo Snow for a writ of habeas corpus
having-been presented to the court, with the exhibits attached
as a part thereof, and the court having fully considered the
application and petition and the exhibits attached, finds that
the facts alleged and shown by the petition and exhibits
are insufficient to authorize the issuance of the writ; and the
court being of the opinion, from the allegations and facts
stated in the petition and exhibits, that, if the writ be granted
and a hearing given, the petitioner could not be discharged
from custody, it is ordered and adjudged by the court that the
said application for a writ of habeas corpus be, and the same
is hereby, refused; to which ruling and refusal applicant, by
his counsel, excepts."
From this order and judgment the petitioner has appealed
to this court.
There can be no doubt that the action of the Distri6t Court.

DT

RE SN6W.

Opinion of the Court.

as set forth in its order and judgnient refusing to issue the
writ, was, so far as an appeal is concerned, equivalent to a
refusal to discharge the petitioner on a hearing on the return
to a writ; and that, under § 1909 of thd Revised Statutes,
an appeal lies to this court from that order and judgment.
It is contended for the United States, that, as the court
which tried the indictments had jurisdiction over the offences
charged in them, it had jurisdiction to determine the questions
raised by the demurrers to the oral pleas in bar in the cases
secondly and thirdly tried; that it tried those questions;
that those questions are the same which are xaised in the
present proceeding; that they cannot be reviewed on habeas
carpus by any court; and that they could only be reexamined here on a writ of error, if one were authorized. For
these propositions the case of Ew parte Bigelow, 113 U. S.
328, is cited. But, for the reasons hereafter stated, we are
of opinion that the decision in that case does not apply
to the present one.
The offende of cohabiting with more than one woman, in
the sense of the section of the statute on which the indictments were founded, may be committed by a man by living
in the same house with two women whom he had theretofore
acknowledged as his wives, and eating at--their respective
tables, and holding them out to the world by his language or
conduct, or both, as his wives, though he may not occupy the
same bed or sleep in the same room with them, or either of
them, or have sexual intercourse with either of them. The
offence Qf cohabitation, In the sense of this statute, is committed if there is a living or dwelling together as husband
and wife. It is, inherently, a continuous offence, having duration; and not an offence consisting of an isolated act. That
it was intended in that sense in these indictments is shown by
the fact that in each the charge laid is that the defendant did
on the day named and "thereafter and continuously," for the
time specified, "live and cohabit with more than one woman,
to wit, with" the seven women hamed, and "during all the
period aforesaid" "did anlawfully claim, live and cohabit
with all of said women as his wives." Thus, in each indict-

OCTOBER ,TERM, 188G.
Opinion of the Court.

micnt, the offeiice is laid as a. continuing one, and a single one,
for' VQ the time -covered by the 'indictment; and, taking the
three indictments together, there is charged a continuing offence. for the entire time covered by all three of the indictments. There was but a single offence committed prior to
the time the indictments were found. This appears on the
face, of the judgment. It refers to the indictments as found
"for the crime of unlawful cohabitation dommitted" "durin g
the time" stated, divided into three periods, according to each
indictment. For so much of the offence as covered each of
these periods the defendant is, according to the judgment, to
be imprisoned for six months and to pay a fine of $300. The
division of -the two years and eleven months is wholly arbitrary. On the same principle there might have been an indictment eivering each of the thirty-five months, with imprisonment for. seventeen years and a half and fines amounting to
$10,500, or even an indictment covering every week, with imprisomnent for seventy-four years and fines amounting to.
$44,400; and so on, ad infinium, for smaller periods of time.
It is to prevent such an application of penal laws, that the
rule has obtained that a continuing offence of the character
of the one in this case .can be committed but once, for the
purposds of indictment or prosecution, prior to the time the
prosecution is instituted. Here each indictment charged unlawful cohabitation with the same seven women; all the
indictments were found at the same time, by the same grand
jury, and on the testimony of the same witnesses, covering
a continuous period of thirty-five months; and it was the
mere will of the grand jury which divided the time among
three indictments, and stopped short of dividing it among
"thiry-five, or one hundred and fifty-two, or even more. It
was quite in consonance with this action, that the -prosecuting
officer tried the indictments in the inverse order of the time
to which each related, that for 1885 first, that for 1884 next,
and that for 1883 last. Hence the defendant could no, on
any trial, plead or show that he haa before been tried on an
indictment in respect to a period of time antedating that laid
in the indictment on trial. Then, after the verdicts, there was

IN RE SNOW.
Opinion of the Court.

not a separate judgment in each case; but only one judgment
in form was rendered for all the cases. The judgment says,
on its face, that the proper officer of the penitentiary is.
to
imprison the defendant therein "for the periods as in this
judgmeiit ordered and specified," that is, for three successive
periods of six months each, the first period to apply to the
indictment thirdly tried; the second period io apply to the
indictment first tried, and to begin when the sentence and
judgment on the in dictment thirdly tried should expire; and
the third period to apply to the indictment secondly tried,
and to begin when the sentence and judgment on the indictment secondly tried should expire.
No case is cited where what has been done in the present
case has been held to be lawful. But the uniform current of
authority is to the contrary, both in England and in the
United States.
A leading case on the subject in England is Crmpps v. Du,den, Cow-per, 640. In that case the statute, 29 Car. 2, c.7,
provided "that no tradesman or other person shall do or exercise any worldly labor, business, or work of theii ordinary
calling on the Lord's day, w6rks of- necessity and charity only
excepted." A penalty of five shillings was affixed, to each
offence, and it was made cognizable by a justice of the*peace.
Crepps, a baker, was, convicted before Durden, a justice, by
four separate convictions, "os selling small hot loaves of bread,
the same not being any work of charity, on the same day,
being Sunday," in violation of that statute. Durden issued
four warrants, one on each conviction, to officers, who, under
them, levied four penalties, of five shillings each, on the goods
of Crepps. The latter sued Durden and the others, in trespass, in the King's Bench, in 1771, and bad a verdict before
Lord Mansfield, for three sums of five shillings each, subject
to the opinion of the court. The .first question raised was
whether, in the action of trespass, and before the convictions
were quashed, .their legality could be 'objected to; and, next,
whether the levy under the last three warrants could be justified. ' It was contended for the plaintiff that the last three
convictions were in excess of the jurisdiction of the justice,

284

8CT(OBER TERM; 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

because the offence created by the statute was the exercising
of a'calling on the Lord's day, and, if the plaintiff had contin-ued baking from morning till. night, it would still be but one
offence; that the four convictions were for one and the same
offence; and that an action would lie against the justice, and
the officers. On the other side it was urg6d, that, as the justice had general jurisdiction of the offence in question, the
convictions must be quashed, or reversed on appeal, before
they could be questioned. At a subsequent day, the unanimous opinion of the court was delivered by Lord Mansfield.
He first considered the question whether the legality of the
convictions could be objected to before they were quashed.
*Asto this he said: "Here are three convictions of a baker, for
exercising his, trade on one and the same day, he having been
before convicted for exercising his ordinary callin on that
identical day. If the act of Parliament gives authority to levy
but one penalty, there is an end of the question;- for there is
no penalty at common law. On the construction of the act of
Parliament the offence is Iexercising his ordinary trade upon
the Lord's day' ; and that without any fractions of a -day,
hours or minutes. It is but one entire offence, whether longer
or shorter in point of duration; so, whether it consists of one,
or of a number of particular acts. The penalty incurred for
this offence is five shillings. There is no idea conveyed by the
act itself, that, if a tailor sews -on the Lord's day, every stitch
he takes is a separate offence; or, if a shoemaker or carpenter
work for different, customers at different t mes on the same
Sunday that those are so many separate and distinct offences.
There can be but one entire offence on one and the same day.
And' this is a much stronger case than that which has been
alluded to, of killing more hares than one on the same day.
Killing a single hare is an offence; but the killing ten more
on the same day will not multiply the offence, or the penalty
imposed by the statute for killing one. Here, repeated offences
are not the object which the legislature had in view in making
the statute; but singly, to punish a man for exercising his
ordinary trade and calling on a Sunday. 'Upon this construetion, the justice had no jurisdiction whatever in respect of the

IN RE SNOW
Opinion of the Court.

three last convictions. How, then, can there be a doubt but
that the plaintiff might take this objection at the trial?" As
to justifying the levy under the last three warrants, Lord
Mansfield said: "But what could the justification have been
in this case, if any had been attempted to be set up? It could
only have been this: That. because the plaintiff had been convicted of one offence on that day, therefore the justice hadconvicted him in three other offences for the same act. By.
law that is no justification. It is illegal on the face of it; and,
therefore, as was very rightly admitted by the counsel for the
defendant, in the argument, if put upon the record by way of
plea, 'would have been bad, and on demurrer must have been
so adjudged. Most clearly, then, it was open to the plaintiff,
upon the general issue, to take advantage of it -at the trial.
The questibwa does not turn upon niceties; upon a computation
how many hours distant the several bakings happened; or
upon the fact of which conviction was prior in point of time;
or that for uncertainty in that respect they should all four be
held bad. But it goes upon the ground that the offence itself
can be committed only once in the same day."
In the case at bar'the statute pr~yides, that if any male person shall thereafter cohabit with more than one woman, he
shall, on conviction, be punished thus and so. The judgment
in the case, taken-in cgnnectipn with the other proceedings in
the record and the statute,: shows, within the principle pZ
Crep~ps v. Du'rde, that there. was but one entire offence,
whether longer or shorter in point of duration, between the
earliest day laid in any indictment and the*latest day laid in
any. There can be but one offence betwebn such earliest ,day
and the end of the continuous time embraced by all of the
indictments. Not only had the court which tried them no
jurisdiction to inflict a punishment in respect of more than
one of the convictions, but, as the want of jurisdiction appears
on the face of the judgment, the objection may be taken on
ltabea corpwt, when the sentefice on more than one of the convictions is sought to be enforced. If such an objebtion could.
be taken in Crepps v. Durdaen, in a collateral action for.damages, it can be taken on a habea8 courgp to release the party

OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

from imprisonment under the illegal judgment. These considerations distinguish the case from that of Ex parte Bigelow,
(ubi supra,) and bring it within the principle of such cases as
-e..2arte -lilligan,4 Wall. 2, 131; .E parte Lange, 18 Wall.
63, 178; and Ex _parte WMilson, 114 U. S. 417.
A distinction is laid down in adjudged cases and in textwriters between an offence continuous in its character, like the
one at bar, and a case where the statute is aimed at an offence
that can be committed uno ictu. The subject is discussed in
1 Wharton's Criminal Law, 9th ed., §§ 27, 931, and the cases
on the subject are cited..
The principle -which governs the present case has been Tecognized and approved in many cases in the United States : Washburn v. 7Jfelnroy (1810), 7 Johns. 134; J.ayor v. Ordrenan
(1815),'12 Johns. 122; Tifany v. .Driggs (1816), 13 Johns. 253;
State v. C'ommissioners (1818), 2 Ifurph. (N.C.), 371; United
States v. 3_cormick-(1830), 4 Cranch C. 0. 104; .State v. Arutt
(1856), 28 Vt. 598; State v. indley (1860), 14 Ind.430; Sturgis
v. Spq'ordl (1871), 45 N. Y. 446 ; Fisherv. i1ew York Central
& J7udson River Railroad (1871), 46 N. Y. 644; State v.
Eggleshit (1875), 41 Iowa, 574; United States v. 117ew Yorko,]
Guaranty 4 Indemnity Co. (1875), 8 Ben. 269; United Sttites
v. Er'ie Roailway Co. (1877), 9 Ben. 67, 68.,
The case of Common wealth v. Connors, 116 Mass. 35, gives
no support to the view that a grand jury may divide a single
continuous offence, running through a past period of time, into
such parts as it may please, and call each part a separate offence.
On the contrary, in Commonwealth v. Robinson, 126 -Mass.259,
it is said that the offence of keeping a tenement for the illegal
sale of intoicating liquors on a day named, and on divers other
days and tines between that day and a subsequent day, is but
one 6ffence, even though the tenement is kept during every
hour of the time between those two days, such offence being
continuous in its character.
On the whole case we are unanimously of opinion that
The ordler andjudgment of the District Cov't for the Third
Judicial District of U*tah Territoryvmst be reversecl and
the case be remanded to that court, uith a direction to grant

MEMPHIS,

&c., RAILROAD v. DOW.
Statement of Fadts.

the writ of habeas corpus prayed for, and to take suck
.proceedingsthereon, as may be in conformity with law and
not inconsistent with t]te opinion of this court.

MEMPHIS & LITTLE ROCK RAILROAD v. DOW.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
Argued November 11, 12, 1886.-Decided January 24, 1887.

The provision in the constitution of Arkansas of 1874 that "no private corporation shall issue stock or bonds except for money or property actually received, or labor done; and all fictitious increase of stock or
indebtedness shall be void" does not prevent the carrying out of an
agreement between mortgage bondholders of an embarrassed railroad
company in that state by which it was agreed that trustees should buy
in the mortgaged property on foreclosure, and convey it to a new company to be organized by the bondholders which should issue new mortgage bonds to pay the expenses of the sale, and other new mortgage
bonds to be taken by the bondholders in lieu of their old bonds, and
full paid up stock subject to the mortgage debt, to be delivered to and
held by the bondholders without any payment of money; and the bonds
issued under such an agreement are not subject to the provisions of
§ 5, 488 Rev. Stat. Ark., 3Iansfield's Digest, page 1057, respecting the
legal rate of interest for certain classes of railroad securities.
Trustees under a mortgage from a railroad company with covenants of
warranty are entitled to protect the trust property against a forced sale
under a prior incumbrance, and upon the payment of that incumbrance
to have the benefit of its lien as against the company, and to be reimbursed the"amount so paid by them with legal interest: but the. rate of
interest allowed by the court below in this case was in excess of the

legal rate.

THE appellant, the Memphis and Little Reck Railroad Company, (as reorganized,) an Arkansas corporation, conveyed, by
deed of May 2, 1877, to Pierson, Matthews, and Dow, trustees,
its road and connections, and all its property, rights, and privileges, including its franchise to be a corporation, to secure the
payment of its bonds of the same date, aggregating 82,600,000,

