NEW ORLEANS BANK v. LE BRETON.
Syllabus.

the popular will. GrenadaCountry Squvei'visor8 v. Progdem, 112
U. S. 261, 262; Anderson v. Santa Anna, 116 U. S. 356, 364.
T7te judgment must be reversed and the ease remanded for
It is so
further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
ordered.

NEW ORLEANS NiATIONAL BANKING ASSOCIATION v. LE BRETON.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Argued October 21, 2, 1886.--Decided Marh 21, 1887.

In Louisiana a holder of a first mortgage op real estate, duly executed before a notary with pact de non alienando, is not bound to give notice to
subsequent mortgagees, or to any person but the debtor in possession,
when he proceeds by executory process to obtain seizure and sale of the
mortgaged property to satisfy the mortgage debt.
In Louisiana a mortgage given to secure a future balance on an open unliquidated account is valid; and the acknowledgment of the amount of
the balance by the debtor, before a notmy, is all that is necessary to be
done under the Code, in order to ascertaiu it for the purposes of executory process.
In Louisiana, lnformqlities connected with or growing out of any public sale,
made by any person authorized to sell by public auction, are prescribed
agiiinst by those claiming under the sale after the lapse of five years
from the time of making it, whether against minors, married women, or
interdicted persons.
W, owning a plantation in Louisiana, and beinz embarrassed, agreed -with
several of his creditors and with K, that W should remain in possession
and work the plantation; that K should make annual advances to a stipulated amount to enable him to work it, and should receive and dispose of
the crops and apply their products, first to the payment of his own
account, and next to the payment of the debts -ofthe creditors; and that
for these advances and the balance on his account K should have a first
mortgage on the plantation with pact de non alienando, and that the
debts of said creditors should be secured by, a mortgage subsequent to
the lien to secure K's account. A'second mortgage was afterwards made
to K, with a like ,pact, and with an agreement, in which all joined, that
It should have priority over the first mortgage. The plantation was
worked at a loss, and K having made large advances, W acknowledged
the amount of them before a notary, and K proceeded .by executory pro-

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.
I

cess to obtain a sale of the plantation, and it was sold under judicial.
process. In a suit brought after the lapse of eight years by one of said
creditors to foreclose the creditors' mortgage, and to set aside the sale
under the mortgage to K: Held, (1) That no notice to the creditoks of
the proceedings to foreclose K's mortgage was necessary; (2) That W's
acknowledgment of the balance due on K's account was all the ascertainment that was required; (3) That the relation of trustee and cestuis
que trust did not arise between K and the creditors; (4) That the creditors
were guilty of laches in allowing so long time to elapse after knowledge
of the sale, before commencing prorcedings to disturb it.

BILL in equityr to foreclose a mortgage, and to set aside a
sale under a prior mortgage. The case is stated in the opinion
of the court.
-Yfr. J D. Rouse. (with whom was Mr. I'lTlian CG-rant on
the brief) and -Mr. 7ohn A. Camlell for appellants.
2b."Jarnes _teConnell for appellees submitted on his brief.
AIRx. JUsTIcE BRADLEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

The bill in: this case is brought to foreclose a certain mortgage on a plantation in Terrebonne Parish, Louisiana, called
the Ardoyne plantation, with the stock thereon, and to have
the same sold, and the proceeds distributed amongst the parties secured by the mortgage, and to set aside, as illegal, fraudulent, and vdid, a former sale made by executory process at
the suit of S. H. Kennedy & Co., one of the parties secured by
the same instrument.
The mortgage referred to was given by notarial act on the
12th of April, 1872, by one Nolan S. .Williams, to secure various creditors large amounts respectively due to them; amongst
others, to secure the complainants in the bill (the appellants
here) the sum of $50,606.83, with interest at eight per cent.
per annum,.due to the New Orleans National Banking Association, and $6856.95, with like interest, due to McComb. The
mortgage contained the Pact de non alienando. In the same
instrument it was agreed that Williams should conduct and
cultivate the plantation, and should receive $2000 per year for
his support out of the advances to be made as hereafter stated;

NEW ORLEANS BANE: v. LE BRETON.

767

Opinion of the Court.

and Samuel II. Kennedy, one of the appellees, for his firm of
S. H. Kennedy & Co., agreed to make all necessary advances
in cash- and in purchase of supplies to carry on and cultivate
the plantation during the existence of the mortgage, not to
exceed $30,000 per year, to be evidenced by an open account.
to be kept by said firm between them and the plantation. To
secure Kennedy & Co. for these advances, Williams, by the
same instrument, mortgaged the plantation to said firm,
with the like pact de non alienando; and it was agreed by all
the parties, both mortgager and mortgagees, (who all joined
in the act,) that the mortgage granted in favor of Kennedy &
Co. should have priority and rank of first mortgage over the
one granted in favor of the other creditors. To further secure
Kennedy & Co., Williams also mortgaged to them the crops
of the.plantation, and agreed to consign the same to them for
sale in New Orleans, and Kennedy & Co. were to have the
usual commissions and charges; and, after they were reimbursed for their advances, interest, and costs, the balance of
the proceeds of the crops was to be applied by them, each
year, to. the debts due to the other mortgagees.
The accounts of Kennedy & Co. .with the plantation for the
year 1872, showed that the advances required for that year
amounted to over $40,000, and that the net proceeds of the
crop were less thian that sum.
In anticipation of this state of things another instrument
was executed before a notary by all the parties, on the 30th
of December, 1872, by which it was, agreed that Kennedy &
Co. should advance $40,000 for that year, and $35,000 for
each succeeding year, instead of $30,000, as provided by the
first agreement; and to secure them for such advances, Williams mortgaged to them the plantation anew; and the other
creditors agreed and consented that the new mortgage should
have priority and rank of first mortgage over that granted in
theif favor by the act of April 12, 1872.
The accounts of the next year, 1873, showed that the proceeds of the crop were insufficient to pay Kennedy & Co.'s advances by more than $28,000; and it seemed evident that the
plantation could not be carried on without serious loss to all
the parties concerned.

.OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

In this condition of things Kennedy & Co. justly considered
themselves authorized to proceed upon their mortgage for the
collection of the amount due to them. It stood at that time
upon an open account; and, on. the 28th of January, i874,

they procured.Williams to make an acknowledgment before a
.notary public of the balance due, which amounted to $28,097.36, for which he, at the same time, confessed judgment, and
consented and agreed that, under-said act, and the two acts of
mortgages before referred to, Kennedy & Co. should have the
right to seize and sell the plantation under execution process.
Thereupon, on the 31st of January, 1874, Kennedy & Co.
presented a petition for executory process to the judge of the
district court for the parish of Terrebonne, setting out therein
the two mortgages, the fact that the plantation was incurring
indebtedness every year, instead of paying anything, the
amount of balance due them, and the notarial act by which
-Williams had admitted. the amount, and confessed judgment
therefor, and praying for-an order of seizure and sale to be
directed to the sheriff, for the purpose of satisfying their claim.
Williams endorsed the petition, waiving all notices and legal
delays. An order was accordingly made, and Williams having
waived all formal notices, the property was advertised and
sold'by the sheriff on the 7th of Mlarch, 1874, and S. -H.Kennedy became the purchaser for the sum of $17,435.32, the
appraised vafue being $26,142.62.
The grounds on which the complainants seek to set this sale
aside are.illegality and fraud.
The illegalities alleged are, first, that the complainants and
other mortgage creditors were not made parties to the proceeding and were not notified of the sale; and, secondly,- that
the debt, being an open account until acknowledged by Williams, was not an exigible debt under the mortgage alone, and
that the seizure and sale had no validity, except in virtue of
the confession of judgment made by Williams on the 31st of
January, and hence could not affect the complainants who
had a prior mortgage.
Neither of these objections seems to be well founded. A
holder of a first mortgage, duly executed before a notary,

NEW ORLEANS

BANK v. LE BRETON.

Opinion of the Court.

with _pac de non alenando, is not bound to give notice to any
person but the debtor in'possession.
The Code of Practice, Art. 732, declares that: "Executory
process can only be resorted to in the following cases: 1.
When the creditor's right arises from an act itiporting a confession of judgment, and-which contains a privilege or mortgage in his favor."
Art. 733: "An act is said to import a confession of judginent in matters of privilege and mortgage, when it is passed
bafore a notarj public or other officer fulfilling the same
functions, in the.presence of two witnesses, and the debtor has
declared or acknowledged the debt- for which he gives the
privilege or mortgage."
Art. 734: "When the creditor is in possession- of such an
act, he.may proceed against the debtor or his heh, by causing
the property subject to the privilege or mortgage to be seized
and sold, on d-bimple petition, and without a previous citation
of the debtor, in the manner laid do vn in the third paragraph,
second section, third chapter of the first part of this Code."
-Art. 735: "In obtaining this order of seizure, it shall suffice
to give three days' notice to the debtor, counting from that on
which the notice is given, if he resides on the spot, adding, a
day for every twenty miles, between the place of his residence
and the residence-of the judge to whom the petition has been
presented."
The Civil Code, Art. 3397 (3360), declares that "The mbrtgage has the following effects: 1. That the debtor cannot sell,
engage or mortgage the same property to other persons, to
the prejudice of .the mortgage which is already made to,
another creditor."
These sections do not, it is true, speak of the pact de non
alienando and its peculiar effect. This pact and its consequences were derived from the Spanish law, and were not
affected by the Code, and have been firmly established in the
jurisprudence of Louisiana. .Vathan. v...Lee, 2 Martin (N. S.)
32; .Donaldson v. .fXaurin, 1 La. 29; and other cases .cited
in Hennen's Dig. Arts. Executory Process, III. (b); Mortgage,
VI, (6), 6; Louque's Dig. ib. This rule not only applies to
VOL.bxX-49

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

subsequent purchasers from the mortgagor, but to subsequent
incumbrancers. Guemard v. qmuie, 8 La. Ann. 58. The
-mortgage of Kennedy & Co. contained all the requisites required for this process. It-was a first mortgage by agreement
of all the parties, and contained the pact in question. The
fact that the complainants and other creditors had a junior
mortgage -by virtue of the same instrument makes no difference. They agreed to stand on the .plane of second mortgagees, and must be bound by the 'conditions attaching to
such a position. It has even been held by the Supreme Court
of Louisiana that where two separate notes, drawn in favor of
different individuals, were secured by .the same mortgage,
either mortgagee may sue to enforce his rights without a
joinder of the other. U7tz v. Utz, 34 La. A n. 752. And, in
another case, it was held that where there are concurrent
mortgagees, one of them may proceed by executory, process
-to foreclose the mortgage without giving special notice to the
others. Soniat v. Miles, 32 La. Ann. 164. - In suchcases the
other interested parties are entitled to their proper shares of
the common proceeds. Carite v. Trotot, 105 U. S. 751, 755.
But in this case, Kennedy & Co. had not only the joint
mortgage of April 12, 1872, as security for their claim, but
the separate one of December 30, 1872, ifi which the complainants and other creditors repeated their consent that it
should be a first mortgage, and have priority. over theirs. We
think, therefore, that there can be no doubt that Kennedy &
Co. had a right to proceed by executory process without giving special notice to the other mortgagees, if they had a right
to executory process at all.
The complainants, however, deny that Kennedy & Co. had
any such right, because their claim stood in the form of an
open, unliquidated account, and the balance had to be acknowledged by the debtor Williams before it was in a proper shape
for executory proceedings. We do not think that this objection can prevail. The mortgage on its face was good for any
sum not exceeding $35,000, and though this was to cover
future advances, it was none the less efficacious as a mortgage
to the extent of those advances, less the amount of any

NEW ORLEANS BANK v. *LE BRETON.
Opinion of the Court.

credits realized from the proceeds of the crop, or otherwise.
The law on the subject of such mortgages is laid down in the
Civil Code as follows:
Art. 3292 (3259): "A mortgage may be given for an obligation which has not yet risen into existence; as when a man
grants a mortgage by way of security for indorsement which
another promises to make for him."
Art. 3293 (3260): "But the right of mortgage, in this case,
shall only be realized in so far as the ptomise shall be ca -ied
into effect by the person making it. The fulfilment of the
promise, however, shall impart to the mortgage a retrospective
effect to the time of the contract. "'
These articles, read in connection with those previously
quoted, and the express agreement of the parties, are sufficient to show that there is no foundation for the objection.
Aa matters stood in January, 1874, all that was necessary was
an ascertainment of the balance due from the plantation to
Kennedy & Co.; and for this balance, to any amount less
than $35,000, the mortgage was as good as if the precise sum
had been named in it when it was executed. To ascertain
this balance, for the purposes of executory process, all that
was wanted under the Code was the acknowledgment of the
-debtor. Such an acknowledgment was made in solemn form
before a notary, and satisfied the conditions of the law.
It is true that the other mortgagees were interested in the
amount of the balance due at the end of each year, and were
undoubtedy entitled to inspect the accounts which-Kennedy
& Co. were to keep with the plantation; but the latter were
not required to render accounts to them in the ordinary sense
of those terms. Their accounts were with Williams, to whom
the advances were made, or with the plantation, which was
the same thing; and their settlements were properly made
with him; and being so made, were binding on all the parties,
unless fraud or collusion could be shown. -The evidence shows
that Kennedy & Co. were always ready and willing to have
their accounts inspected, if the other parties had desired to
inspect them. This was all that the agreement implied or
required. Hence the acknowledgment by Williams of the

OCTOBER TERMI,

1886.

Opinion of the Court.

correctness of the accounts, and of the balance due to Kennedy & Co., -was a sufficient ascertainment of the amount due
to them to "impart to the mortgage a r&rospective effect to
the time of the contract."
Tho fact that Williams, in addition to making an acknowledgment of the amount of the debt, also confessed judgment
for it, did not deprive Kennedy & Co. of their rights under
the mortgages, which themselves-had the force of confessed
judgments. The executory process was sued out upon them
all, and had the effect due to all or any of them. The acknowledgnent, it is true, was all that was needed under the
law to make the mortgages exigible, and the confession of
judgnent was a supererogatory formality which did not affect
their validity.
The complainants' case, therefore, must stand or fall upon
the charge of fraud and conspiracy on the part of Kennedy &
Co.- and Williams. We have carefully examined the evidence
in relation to this charge, and are satisfied with the conclusions reached by the Circuit Court on the subject. The main
stress of the argument of the appellants on this point is laid
on the want of notice to them of the executory proceedings,
and the haste with which the proceedings were conducted.
We have already shown that they were not entitled to notice,
and the haste in the proceedings is accounted for by the fact
that unless a sale were made in the early spring, the purchaser
could -not make a crop fo that year; and, hence, the property
would command a greater price at an early sale than at a
later one. The evidence shows that everything was done in
good faith and with all due publicity. The charge that Kennedy induced parties not to appear and bid at the sale is not
substantiated by satisfactory proof; on the contrary, we think
it is disproved. None of the parties interested seem to have
thought the .proceedings assailable either for fraud or any
other cause. The sale was made March 7, 1874; Kennedy
took immediate possession, and carried on the plantation. The
complainant bank had suspended October 4, 1873, and went
into bankruptcy. A receiver (Cockrem) was appointed October 20, 1873, and another receiver (Casey) July 1, 1874. The

NEW ORLEANS BANK v. LE BRETON.
Opinion of the Court.

latter, in his report to the comptroller, classed the claim against
Williams as worthless. He,or his predecessor, must have examined into the condition of the security at the time, and
must have ascertained all about the sale to Kennedy, if they
were not aware of it when it took place. The receiver paid
no further attention to th.e claim until shortly before the filing
of the bill in this case, which was May 15, 1882, more than
eight years after the sale took place. The notes given to the
complainants had then been due over five years, and no interest or principal had ever been paid on them. Surely such
an important asset of the bank, the principal of which was
over $50,000, could not have been overlooked. The other
second mortgagees were equally oblivious to any illegality or
fraud in the sale until this suit was brought. It seems incredib1e that parties so deeply interested; represented as they were
by vigilaht and able counsel, did not in all this period discover
the alleged illegalities and frauds. The proceedings incident
to the sale were matter of record; the petition for executory
process, the order, the acknowledgment of the debt, the appraisement of the property, the purchaser's bid, the sheriff's
deed, all lay open to inspection; and no sign was ever made for
more than eight years by any of these parties. They must
have been satisfied with the regularity of the proceedings, and
the good faith of Kennedy & Co. and Williams. Their conduct is inexplicable on any other hypothesis.
-As to any irregularities in the sale, the statute of limitations
of 1855, now to be found in ยง 2809 and 3392 of the Revised
Statutes, and article 3543 of the Civil Code, clearly applies.
This statute declares that "all informalities connected with-or
growing out of any public sale, made by any person authorized to sell at public auction, shall be prescribed dgainst by
.those claiming under such sale, after the lapse of five years
from the time of making it, whether against minors, married
women, or interdicted persons."
But it is -alleged that the defendants, lYennedy & Co., were
trustees for the complainants and the other mortgage creditors;
and, therefore, that they are answerable for all profits and
gains realized by Air. Kennedy from the plantation purchased

,OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Opinion of the Court.

by him. We are of opinion, however, that the relation of
trustees did not arise from the agreement. Kennedy &. Co.
were to receive the crops and dispose of them, and if any surplus remained after reimbursing themselves for their advances
and proper charges,. they were to pay it over to the other
mortgagees,,instead of paying it to Williams. They only occupied the position of factors, legally responsible for any surplus
in their hands. For this surplus, if they neglected to pay it
over, they were liable in an action at law. This is a very
different position from that of a trustee in the chancery sense
of that term. The fact. is, they never had any surplus and
were never liable in any amount to the complainants, or their
comortgagees.
But if we were not' satisfied that the complainants have no
case on the merits, we should still regard the great lapse of time
which intervened between the transaction complained of and
the filing of the bill for relief as a very serious obstacle to a
decree in their favor. Eight years passed away before any
complaint was made. The principal of the noteg did not mature till April, 1877,it is true; but the interest became annually
due, and none was ever paid. The ground of relief, if any existed, commenced to exist on the day of sale; and if the complainants, or the assignees, did not know of it at once, they
must have known of it within a short period thereafter. There
is nothing alleged as a ground of disturbing the sale, which
they did not know, or which they were not put upon inquiry
to ascertain within a year from the sale at most.
On the whole we are satisfied that the decree of the Circuit
Court was right, and it is therefore
Afflnned.

