UNITED STATES v. LOUISIANA
Decree

UNITED STATES v. LOUISIANA ET AL. (LOUISIANA BOUNDARY CASE)
ON EXCEPTIONS TO REPORT OF SPECIAL MASTER

No. 9, Orig.

Argued February 24, 1975-Decided March 17, 1975

The United States' and Louisiana's exceptions to the Special Master's Report overruled, his recommendations accepted, and the
parties directed to prepare and file a decree for entry by this
Court, establishing a baseline along Louisiana's entire coast from
which the territorial waters under its jurisdiction pursuant to the
Submerged Lands Act can be measured. If the parties cannot
agree upon the decree's form, they shall refer to the Special
Master any remaining disputes for appropriate proceedings and
further recommendations.

Louis F. Claiborne argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the briefs were Solicitor General
Bork, Assistant Attorney General Johnson, and Bruce C.
Rashkow.
Oliver P. Stockwell and Frederick W. Ellis, Special
Assistant Attorneys General of Louisiana, argued the
cause for defendants. With them on the briefs were
William J. Guste, Jr., Attorney General, and Paul M.
Hebert, Victor A. Sachse, and William E. Shaddock,
Special Assistant Attorneys General.
DECREE.

Upon consideration of the Report filed July 31, 1974,
by Walter P. Armstrong, Jr., Special Master, of the exceptions filed thereto by the United States and by the
State of Louisiana, and after oral argument thereon, IT
Is

Now ORDERED, ADJuDGED, AND DECREED AS FOLLOWS:

1. The exceptions filed by the United States to the
Report and recommendations of the Special Master are
overruled.

OCTOBER TERM, 1974
Decree

420 U.S.

2. The exceptions filed by the State of Louisiana to
the Report and recommendations of the Special Master
are overruled.
3. The recommendations contained dn the Report of
the Special Master are accepted.
4. The parties are directed to prepare and file a decree,
for entry by this Court, establishing "a baseline along the
entire coast of the State of Louisiana from which the
extent of the territorial waters under the jurisdiction of
the State of Louisiana pursuant to the Submerged Lands
Act can be measured." Report of the Special Master
53. If the parties cannot agree upon the form of the
decree, then they shall refer any remaining disputes to
the Special Master for his recommendations. In the
event of such a referral, the Special Master is authorized
to hold such hearings, take such evidence, and conduct
such proceedings as he may deem appropriate and, in due
course, to report his recommendations to this Court.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTIcE DOUGLAS and MR.JUSTICE MARsHALL
took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

