OCTOBER TERM, 1961.
Per Curiam.

369 U. S.

MATTOX v. SACKS, WARDEN.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME
COURT OF OHIO.

No. 584, Misc.

Decided May 14, 1962.

In the circumstances of this case, the petition for writ of certiorari
to the Supreme Court of Ohio is denied. Petitioner may file his
application for habeas corpus in the appropriate United States
District Court. His allegations raise serious questions under the
Fourteenth Amendment and entitle him to a hearing.
Reported below: 172 Ohio St. 385, 176 N. E. 2d 221.

Petitioner pro se.
Mark McElroy, Attorney General of Ohio, and Aubrey
A. Wendt, Assistant Attorney General, for respondent.
PER CURIAM.

Petitioner was convicted in an Ohio state court of
assault with intent to kill and of cutting with intent to
kill, wound or maim the same person. He immediately
sought a writ of habeas corpus which was denied on the
ground that appeal was the proper remedy. He then
attempted to appeal, but this was denied as out of time
and the Supreme Court of Ohio affirmed this denial. He
unsuccessfully sought habeas corpus twice more, the latest
petition being to the Supreme Court of Ohio and alleging,
among other matters, a denial of counsel at his trial and
a deprivation of rights guaranteed by the Due Process
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The Supreme
Court of Ohio denied the petition, holding that habeas
corpus was not a substitute for appeal and was not available to remedy the defects alleged by petitioner. Petitioner now seeks our writ of certiorari to review that
ruling.

DECISIONS PER CURIAM.
369 U. S.

May 14, 1962.

The petition for certiorari must be denied. The decision .below and the several prior actions in the Ohio
courts indicate that petitioner is without a state remedy
to challenge his conviction upon the federal constitutional
grounds asserted. In these circumstances, Darr v. Burford, 339 U, S. 200, 208, is not applicable and a prisoner
may, without first seeking certiorari here, file his application for habeas corpus in the appropriate United States
District Court. 28 U. S. C. ยง 2254. Massey v. Moore,
348 U. S. 105; Frisbie v. Collins, 342 U. S. 519. Petitioner's allegations, if true, would present serious questiins under the Fourteenth Amendment, and those
allegations would therefore entitle him to a hearing.,
Massey v. Moore, supra;Pennsylvania ex rel. Herman v.
Claudy, 350 U. S. 116.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER took no part in the consid-

eration or decision of this case.

BEST v. CITY OF TOLEDO.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF. OHIO.

No. 1048, Misc.

Decided May 14, 1962.

Appeal dismissed; certiorari denied.

James W. Cowell for appellant.
Louis R. Young and Lewis W. Combest for appellee.
PER CURIAM.

The motion to dismiss is granted and the appeal is dismissed. Treating the papers whereon the appeal was
taken as a petition for writ of certiorari, certiorari is
denied.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER took no part

eration or decision of this case.

in the consid-

