HECKLER v. TURNER

1305

Opinion in Chambers

HECKLER, SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES v. TURNER ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-59 (83-1097).

Decided August 10, 1984

The Secretary of Health and Human Services' application to stay, pending
review by this Court, prospective enforcement of the District Court's
permanent injunction (affirmed by the Court of Appeals)-which, in effect, requires state and local officials, in determining eligibility and benefits under the Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) statute,
to deduct the standard work expense disregard in § 402(a)(8)(A)(ii) of
the statute not from gross income but from net income, after deducting
such items as federal, state, and local taxes-is granted prospectively
from July 18, 1984. After this Court granted certiorari in this case,
§ 402(a)(8) was amended, effective July 18, 1984, and there is a high
probability that the Court will interpret the amendment as rendering the
District Court's injunction prospectively improper. Without a stay, the
Secretary will suffer irreparable injury if she succeeds on the merits.
Moreover, for purposes of this Court's Rule 44.4 "most extraordinary
circumstances" are present so as to warrant the application for a stay
even though the relief has not first been sought below.
JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

Circuit Justice.

The Solicitor General, on behalf of the Secretary of Health
and Human Services, requests that I stay, pending review by
this Court, prospective enforcement of the permanent injunction entered by the United States District Court for the
Northern District of California on July 29, 1982, Turner v.
Woods, 559 F. Supp. 603, and affirmed by the United States
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, Turner v. Prod,
707 F. 2d 1109 (1983). The issue before the District Court
was whether the $75 standard work expense disregard in
§ 402(a)(8)(A)(ii) of the Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) statute, 42 U. S. C. § 602(a)(8)(A)(ii) (1976 ed.,
Supp. V), is deducted from net income or gross income in
determining AFDC eligibility and benefits. That court concluded that the disregard was intended by Congress to be

1306

OCTOBER TERM, 1983
Opinion in Chambers

468 U. S.

deducted from net income, and it entered a permanent
injunction prohibiting state and federal officials
"from including mandatory payroll deductions such as
federal, state and local income taxes, Social Security
taxes (F. I. C. A.) and state disability insurance within
the definition of 'income' in interpreting and applying
that term as used in Section 602(a)(7)(A) of Title 42 of
the United States Code [§402(a)(7)(A) of the AFDC
statute]." 559 F. Supp., at 616.
The Ninth Circuit's affirmance of the District Court's interpretation is in conflict with decisions of the Third and Fourth
Circuits, causing a significant disparity in the treatment of
AFDC beneficiaries based solely on residence. This Court
granted the Secretary's petition for a writ of certiorari to
resolve the conflict. 465 U. S. 1064 (1984).
Subsequently, on July 18, 1984, the President signed into
law the Deficit Reduction Act of 1984, Pub. L. 98-369, 98
Stat. 494. Section 2625(a) of that Act, entitled "Clarification
of Earned Income Provision," amends §402(a)(8) of the
AFDC statute to provide that "in implementing [§ 402(a)(8)]
the term 'earned income' shall mean gross earned income,
prior to any deductions for taxes or for any other purposes."
This amendment became effective on the date of enactment.
The Secretary argues in her application for a stay that
Congress has resolved, at least from the date of enactment
of this amendment forward, the precise issue on which we
granted certiorari. In their memorandum in opposition to
the Secretary's application for a stay, which I requested, the
AFDC respondents argue that the Deficit Reduction Act,
while resolving the meaning of "earned income" in §402(a)(8),
does not resolve the meaning of "income" in §402(a)(7)(A)
and thus does not overrule, prospectively, the interpretation
of the Ninth Circuit on the ultimate issue of whether the
$75 standard work expense disregard is deducted from net
income or gross income. In my judgment, respondents' position is wrong. The Conference Report to the Deficit Reduc-

HECKLER v. TURNER
1305

Opinion in Chambers

tion Act refers specifically to the conflict between the Ninth
Circuit on the one hand and the Third and Fourth Circuits on
the other, including the fact that this Court has agreed to
hear the Ninth Circuit case, and states that the Act
"[a]mends the AFDC statute to make clear that the term
'earned income' means the gross amount of earnings,
prior to the taking of payroll or other deductions."
H. R. Conf. Rep. No. 98-861, pp. 1394-1395 (1984).
From the Report's discussion, it seems clear to me that
Congress intended the amendment of §402(a)(8) to resolve
the conflict, at least for the future, on the issue on which
we granted certiorari. I do not see how this discussion is
either confusing or ambiguous, as claimed by respondents.
The Secretary has made out a compelling case for a prospective stay. Effective July 18, 1984, she is unambiguously
directed by statute to deduct the work expense disregard
from gross income, prior to any deductions for taxes or for
any other purposes; yet she is still subject to an injunction
prohibiting her from doing the same. When this Court
decides the merits of the Ninth Circuit decision affirming
the injunction, which was based on the statute as it stood
prior to the Deficit Reduction Act, the Court will probably
also decide the validity of the injunction after the effective
date of the Act. As is evident from the discussion above, I
think there is a high probability that the Court will determine, as urged by the Secretary in this application, that the
injunction is prospectively improper and should be dissolved
as to AFDC eligibility and benefit determinations subject
to the July 18, 1984, amendment. I express no opinion on
the merits prior to the effective date of the Deficit Reduction
Act.
I also conclude that without a stay the Secretary will suffer
irreparable injury. If she succeeds on the merits, which I
am confident she will as to the future interpretation of the
work expense disregard, the continued application of the injunction will result in approximately $2.6 million in improper

OCTOBER TERM, 1983
Opinion in Chambers

468 U. S.

AFDC payments each month, divided equally between the

Federal Government and the State of California, a figure
which respondents apparently concede. Should the Secretary ultimately lose on this issue, respondents and others so
entitled will be able to collect back AFDC payments that
would have been made but for the requested stay. On the
other hand, it is extremely unlikely that the Secretary would
be able to recover funds improperly paid out. See Edelman
v. Jordan,414 U. S. 1301, 1302-1303 (1973) (REHNQUIST, J.,
in chambers). A stay is, therefore, appropriate.
Finally, the individual respondents cite this Court's Rule
44.4, which provides that an application for a stay to a Justice
"shall not be entertained, except in the most extraordinary
circumstances," unless the relief requested has first been
sought below, and argue that there are no extraordinary
circumstances present in this case. They further cite my
opinions in Conforte v. Commissioner, 459 U. S. 1309 (1983)
(in chambers), and Dolman v. United States, 439 U. S. 1395
(1978) (in chambers), where stays were denied in part for failure to apply first for a stay in the lower courts. In Conforte
there was no reasonable probability that certiorari would
have been granted, and the applicant had not shown any
legitimate reason, let alone extraordinary circumstances, for
not seeking a stay in the Court of Appeals. In Dolman the
information presented to me in the application for a stay was
sketchy as to whether the applicants had requested a stay
below, and there was no apparent reason for not requesting
such a stay below.
The situation in the instant case is quite different. The
reason for requesting a stay arose only after this Court
granted certiorari and was not available when the case was
before the lower courts. The Secretary contends that because certiorari had been granted, it was doubtful that either
the District Court or the Court of Appeals had the authority
to modify the injunction. I agree with the Secretary that
such doubt exists; and whether or not an application to one of
the lower courts would have been proper under the circum-

HECKLER v. TURNER
1305

1309

Opinion in Chambers

stances, I believe an application directly to this Court is not
improper.
I think there are compelling reasons to grant immediate
relief. With respect to the future propriety of the injunction, the Secretary is almost certain to prevail on the merits,
because of the intervening congressional action. Every day
the injunction remains in force the clearly expressed intent
of Congress is being frustrated, and public funds are being
improperly expended without realistic possibility of recovery
at the rate of $2.6 million per month. It would be an empty
and costly formality to force the Secretary to refile her application in the lower courts. In my judgment, the "most
extraordinary circumstances" requirement of Rule 44.4 is
met in the unusual circumstances of this case.
The application for a stay of the District Court injunction is
granted prospectively from July 18, 1984.

