NATIONAL FARMERS UNION INS. COS. v. CROW TRIBE

1315

Opinion in Chambers

NATIONAL FARMERS UNION INSURANCE COMPANIES ET AL. V. CROW TRIBE OF INDIANS ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-123 (84-320).

Decided September 10, 1984

On application to stay the Court of Appeals' mandate, which reversed the
District Court's judgment enjoining respondent Crow Tribe of Indians
from executing on the Crow Tribal Court's default judgment against
applicant School District-the District Court having held that the Tribal
Court lacked subject-matter jurisdiction of an action brought against the
School District by respondent schoolchild (a Crow Indian) for personal
injuries sustained on the School District's land located within the Crow
Indian Reservation-a temporary stay that was granted earlier by the
Circuit Justice is continued pending this Court's disposition of applicants'
petition for certiorari. It appears (1) that four Members of this Court
will vote to grant certiorari to review the question Whether the Court of
Appeals was correct in holding that litigants, seeking to challenge an
Indian tribal court's exercise of jurisdiction in a civil action, have no
federal-court remedy, and (2) that applicants have a reasonable probability for success on the merits with regard to such issue. This Court's
Rule 44.2, requiring that a supersedeas bond accompany the motion for a
stay "[i]f the stay is to act as a supersedeas," is not applicable here, since
the federal-court proceedings did not seek direct review of the Tribal
Court judgment, but instead sought only collateral relief.
JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

Circuit Justice.

Applicants National Farmers Union Insurance Cos. and
Lodge Grass School District No. 27 request that I stay the
mandate of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit which reversed the judgment of the United States
District Court for the District of Montana. The latter court
had enjoined the Crow Tribe of Indians from executing
against the applicants on a judgment rendered by the Crow
Tribal Court. The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
held, as I read its opinion, that litigants who seek to challenge the exercise of jurisdiction by an Indian tribal court in a
civil action have no federal-court remedy of any kind. I have
concluded that four Members of this Court are likely to vote

OCTOBER TERM, 1983
Opinion in Chambers

468 U. S.

to grant the applicants' petition for certiorari, and that the
applicants have a reasonable probability for at least partial
success on the merits if this Court grants certiorari. I have
therefore decided that the temporary stay I earlier granted
on August 21, 1984, pending consideration of a response,
should be continued until this Court disposes of the applicants' petition for certiorari which was filed on August 29th.
In May 1982, Leroy Sage, a Crow Indian schoolchild, was
struck by an uninsured motorcyclist on the property owned
by applicant School District. The school is located on land
within the external boundaries of the Crow Indian Reservation, but the land is owned by the State of Montana
in fee subject to a reserved mineral interest in the Tribe.
Sage sustained a broken leg, and filed suit against the School
District in Crow Tribal Court.
Dexter Falls Down served process for Sage upon Wesley
Falls Down; Wesley was a member of the school board.
Wesley did not notify anyone of the summons and a default
judgment for $153,000 was entered against the school three
weeks later in Tribal Court. Actual medical bills came to
$3,000. Applicants became aware of the suit when the
Tribal Court mailed a copy of the judgment to the school.
Instead of seeking review of the default judgment in Tribal
Court, applicants filed suit in the United States District
Court for the District of Montana, alleging that the Tribal
Court's exercise of jurisdiction violated due process and the
Indian Civil Rights Act of 1968, 82 Stat. 77, as amended,
25 U. S. C. § 1301 et seq. Applicants sought a permanent
injunction against the execution of the Tribal Court judgment.
The District Court held that applicants' complaint, based
on federal common law, stated a claim under 28 U. S. C.
§ 1331. 560 F. Supp. 213, 214-215 (1983). The District
Court held that the Tribal Court lacked subject-matter jurisdiction over Sage's claim, because the land upon which the
tort had occurred was not Indian land, and the defendants
were not tribal members. The District Court relied on our

NATIONAL FARMERS UNION INS. COS. v. CROW TRIBE
1315

1317

Opinion in Chambers

decision in Montana v. United States, 450 U. S. 544, 565-566
(1981), in reaching this conclusion.
The Tribe appealed to the Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit, and that court reversed over a partial dissent. 736
F. 2d 1320, 1322 (1984). The Court of Appeals reasoned on
the authority of one of its prior decisions that "Indian tribes
are not constrained by the provisions of the fourteenth
amendment." It went on to determine that tribes are bound
by the provisions of the Indian Civil Rights Act, 25 U. S. C.
§ 1301 et seq., and that § 202(8) of this Act, 25 U. S. C.
§ 1302(8), requires that tribal courts exercise their jurisdiction in a manner consistent with due process and equal
protection. But the court then concluded that since Congress had expressly limited federal-court review of a claimed
violation of the ICRA to a single remedy-the writ of habeas
corpus-there could be no federal-court review of any tribal
court exercise of jurisdiction in a civil case. The Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit relied in part on our decision in
Santa ClaraPueblo v. Martinez, 436 U. S. 49, 66-70 (1978),
to reach this conclusion. The Court of Appeals recognized
that our decision in Oliphantv. Suquamish Indian Tribe, 435
U. S. 191 (1978), had relied on principles of federal common
law to determine whether a tribal court had exceeded its
jurisdiction, but decided that our opinion the same Term
in Santa Clara Pueblo, supra, suggested a restriction on
federal-court review of Indian tribal jurisdiction as a result
of the ICRA. The Court of Appeals observed in a footnote
that "[s]hould Sage seek to enforce his default judgment in
the courts of Montana, National may, of course, challenge the
tribal court's jurisdiction in the collateral proceedings. See
generally Durfee v. Duke, 375 U. S. 106 ... (1963)." 736
F. 2d, at 1324, n. 6.
It is clear from proceedings in this case subsequent to the
handing down of the opinion of the Court of Appeals that the
respondents in this case have no intention of resorting to any
state-court proceedings in order to enforce the judgment of

1318

OCTOBER TERM, 1983
Opinion in Chambers

468 U. S.

the Crow Tribal Court. After the issuance of the mandate
of the Court of Appeals, tribal officials, at the behest of
respondent Sage, seized 12 computer terminals, other
computer equipment, and a truck from the School District.
The basis for this seizure was said to be the Tribal Court
judgment, and no state process was invoked.
If the Court of Appeals is correct in the conclusions which
it drew in its opinion, the state of the law respecting review
of jurisdictional excesses on the part of Indian tribal courts is
indeed anomalous. The Court of Appeals may well be correct that tribal courts are not constrained by the Due Process
or Equal Protection Clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment;
long ago, this Court said in United States v. Kagama, 118
U. S. 375, 379 (1886), and repeated the statement as recently
as Oliphant v. Suquamish Indian Tribe, supra, at 211:
"'Indians are within the geographical limits of the
United States. The soil and people within these limits
are under the political control of the Government of the
United States, or the States of the Union. There exist
in the broad domain of a sovereignty but these two."'
But if because only the National and State Governments
exercise true sovereignty, and are therefore subject to the
commands of the Fourteenth Amendment, I cannot believe
that Indian tribal courts are nonetheless free to exercise
their jurisdiction in a manner prohibited by the decisions of
this Court, and that a litigant who is the subject of such an
exercise of jurisdiction has nowhere at all to turn for relief
from a conceded excess. Every final decision of the highest
court of a State in which such a decision may be had is subject
to review by this Court on either certiorari or appeal. 28
U. S. C. § 1257. Every decision of a United States district
court or of a court of appeals is reviewable by this Court
either by way of appeal or by certiorari. §§ 1252-1254; cf.
§ 1291. If the courts of the States, which in common with
the National Government exercise the only true sovereignty
exercised within our Nation, Kagama, supra, are to have

NATIONAL FARMERS UNION INS. COS. v. CROW TRIBE
1315

1319

Opinion in Chambers

their judgments reviewed by this Court on a claim of erroneous decision of a federal question, it is anomalous that no
federal court, to say nothing of a state court, may review a
judgment of an Indian tribal court which likewise erroneously
decides a federal question as to the extent of its jurisdiction.
See Montana v. United States, supra. It may be that Congress could provide for such a result, but I have a good deal
more doubt than did the Court of Appeals that it has done so.
Our decision in Santa Clara Pueblo v. Martinez, supra,
which the Court of Appeals read to support its conclusion,
raised the question of whether a federal court could pass on
the validity of an Indian Tribe's ordinance denying membership to the children of certain female tribal members. We
held that the ICRA did not imply a private cause of action to
redress violations of the statutory Bill of Rights contained
in the Act, and that therefore the validity of the tribal
ordinance regulating membership could not be reviewed in
federal court. It seems to me that this holding, relating as
it did to the relationship between the right of a Tribe to
regulate its own membership and the claims of those who had
been denied membership, is quite distinguishable from a
claim on the part of a non-Indian that a tribal court has
exceeded the bounds of tribal jurisdiction as enunciated
in such decisions of this Court as Montana v. United States,
supra. As JUSTICE WHITE pointed out in his dissent in
Santa Clara Pueblo v. Martinez, 436 U. S., at 72, "[t]he
declared purpose of the Indian Civil Rights Act ...

is

'to insure that the American Indian is afforded the broad
constitutional rights secured to other Americans."' But
as the Court also pointed out in its opinion, Congress
entertained the additional purpose of promoting "the wellestablished federal 'policy of furthering Indian selfgovernment."' Id., at 62. The facts as well as the holding
of Santa Clara Pueblo, supra, satisfy me that Congress'
concern in enacting the ICRA was to enlarge the rights of individual Indians as against the tribe while not unduly infringing on the right of tribal self-government. The fact that no

1320

OCTOBER TERM, 1983
Opinion in Chambers

468 U. S.

private civil cause of action is to be implied under the ICRA,
Santa Clara Pueblo, supra, does not to my mind foreclose
the likelihood that federal jurisdiction may be invoked by one
who claims to have suffered from an excess beyond federally prescribed jurisdictional limits of an Indian tribal court
on the basis of federal common law. See, e. g., Illinois v.
City of Milwaukee, 406 U. S. 91, 99-100 (1972). We said in
Oliphant v. Suquamish Indian Tribe, 435 U. S., at 206:
"'Indian law' draws principally on the treaties drawn and
executed by the Executive Branch and legislation passed
by Congress. These instruments, which beyond their
actual text form the backdrop for the intricate web of
judicially made Indian law, cannot be interpreted in
isolation but must be read in light of the common notions
of the day and the assumptions of those who drafted
them."
I think a fair reading of all of our case law on this subject
could lead to the conclusion that even though the ICRA
affords no private civil cause of action to one claiming a
violation of its terms, "Indian law" as of the time that law
was enacted afforded a basis for review of tribal-court judgments claimed to be in excess of tribal-court jurisdiction.
Respondents insist that under Rule 44.2 of this Court a
supersedeas bond should have accompanied applicants' request for a stay. That Rule provides:
"If the stay is to act as a supersedeas, a supersedeas
bond shall accompany the motion and shall have such
surety or sureties as said judge, court, or Justice may
require."
I do not think that the Rule is by its terms applicable to
this case. The term "supersedeas" to me suggests the order
of an appellate court having authority to review on direct
appeal the judgment which is superseded. All of the pro-

NATIONAL FARMERS UNION INS. COS. v. CROW TRIBE
1315

1321

Opinion in Chambers

ceedings in the various federal courts in this case have,
of course, sought no direct review of the Tribal Court
judgment, which simply is not provided for by statute at all,
but collateral relief. The District Court did not review the
judgment of the Indian Tribal Court by way of appeal, but
instead enjoined its enforcement.
It may well be that under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure respondents would have a plausible argument to make
to the District Court that an injunction bond serving somewhat the same purposes as a supersedeas bond should be
required by that court so long as its injunction remains in
effect. Whether such a bond should be required of either
party in this case, and whether in particular it should be
required of applicant Lodge Grass School District No. 27 in
view of the fact that apparently under Montana law a public
body is not required to post a supersedeas bond in a statecourt proceeding, is an issue best left in the first instance to
the District Court.
As to whether, if I am right in thinking that this Court may
well decide that tribal-court judgments are subject to federalcourt review for claims of jurisdictional excess, applicants
would necessarily prevail, I express no opinion. The District Court held in their favor on this point, but the Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit found no necessity for reaching
it since it held that there was no federal jurisdiction to consider it. The District Court in its opinion quoted F. Cohen,
Handbook of Federal Indian Law 253 (1982), to the effect
that "'the extent of Tribal civil jurisdiction over the nonIndian is not fully determined."' 560 F. Supp., at 218. The
District-Court, in reaching the conclusion it did, relied on
the following language from our opinion in United States v.
Montana:
"To be sure, Indian Tribes retain inherent sovereign
power to exercise some forms of civil jurisdiction over
non-Indians on their reservations, even on non-Indian
fee lands. A tribe may regulate, through taxation,

OCTOBER TERM, 1983
Opinion in Chambers

468 U. S.

licensing, or other means, the activities of nonmembers
who enter consensual relationships with the tribe or
its members, through commercial dealings, contracts,
leases, or other arrangements .... A tribe may also re-

tain inherent power to exercise civil authority over the
conduct of non-Indians on fee lands within its reservation
when that conduct threatens or has some direct effect on
the political integrity, the economic security, or the
health or welfare of the tribe." 450 U. S., at 565-566.
The court concluded that exercise of tribal jurisdiction over
an injury to a tribal member occurring on non-Indian-owned
fee land within the boundaries of the reservation was not
within the description of Indian tribal jurisdiction. I express
no opinion as to what the correct answer to this inquiry may
be. I do think its correct decision is of far less importance
than the correct decision of the more fundamental question of
whether there is any federal-court review available to nonIndians for excesses of tribal-court jurisdiction.
It is so ordered.

