MONTGOMERY v. JEFFERSON
Opinion in Chambers

MONTGOMERY ET AL. v. JEFFERSON ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-166.

Decided September 10, 1984

An application to stay enforcement of orders of the Federal District
Court, which-after holding unconstitutional as applied a requirement
under the New York election law that the cover sheet of a candidate's
designating petition state the number of signatures in the petitiondirected that the New York City Board of Elections accept respondents'
designating petitions and place their names on the ballot for the imminent Democratic primary election in Kings County, is denied under the
circumstances of the case.

Circuit Justice.
Applicants request that I stay enforcement of two orders
of the United States District Court for the Eastern District
of New York concerning tomorrow's Democratic primary
election in Kings County, N. Y. In those orders, the District Court directed the Board of Elections in the City of New
York to accept the designating petitions of respondents Jefferson and Clark and to place their names on the Democratic
primary ballot.
The underlying litigation arose out of challenges to the
designating petitions of Jefferson and Clark filed with the
Board of Elections. On August 28, 1984, the New York
Court of Appeals held that the petitions were invalid under
state law because their cover sheets overstated the number
of signatures in the petitions. Jefferson and Clark then
challenged the constitutionality of the New York election
law's requirement that a designating petition's cover sheet
state the number of signatures in the petition. On September 6, the District Court held the requirement unconstitutional as applied. Thus, it ordered that Jefferson's and
Clark's names be placed on the ballot. On September 7, it
denied applicants' motion for a stay.
JUSTICE MARSHALL,

1314

OCTOBER TERM, 1983
Opinion in Chambers

468 U. S.

Applicants then moved for a stay and for expedited appeal
in the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
Today, the Second Circuit denied the motion for a stay but
granted the motion for expedited appeal. It scheduled oral
argument for the week of September 24.
This application was filed at approximately 3:30 p. m.
today. Given the little time left for evaluating, before
tomorrow's primary, the questions raised by the application,
I am not persuaded to interfere with the actions of the Second
Circuit.
The application for a stay is accordingly denied.
It is so ordered.

