CALIFORNIA v. HARRIS
Opinion in Chambers

CALIFORNIA v. HARRIS
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-19.

Decided July 23, 1984

California's application to stay, pending disposition of its petition for certiorari, the California Supreme Court's judgment-reversing respondent's
capital murder conviction and holding that the trial jury, which was
empaneled by the use of a voter registration list, was not drawn from a
fair cross section of the community-is denied. It is doubtful that four
Members of this Court will vote to grant certiorari since it is questionable that the State, under state law, had preserved for review the issue
whether the need for efficient jury selection justifies resort to such
neutral lists as voter registration rolls even though they do not perfectly
reflect the proportion of blacks and Hispanics in the population at large.
JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

Circuit Justice.

The State of California requests that I stay, pending action
by this Court on its petition for certiorari, a judgment of the
Supreme Court of California that reversed the capital murder
conviction of respondent. The State wishes this Court to
review the holding of the California court that the jury that
tried respondent was not "drawn from a fair cross section of
the community" as that phrase is used in Duren v. Missouri,
439 U. S. 357 (1979), and other cases.
Respondent was tried in Los Angeles County, which at the
time the jury in his case was empaneled summoned jurors by
use of a voter registration list. The majority of the Supreme
Court of California decided that respondent had produced
credible evidence of substantial disparity between the representation of blacks and Hispanics on the voter lists, on the
one hand, and their representation in the population at large,
on the other. 36 Cal. 3d 36, 679 P. 2d 433 (1984). That
court also concluded that the State had failed to rebut this
evidence.
The State contends that the Supreme Court of California
has misapplied this Court's Duren decision so as to find a

OCTOBER TERM, 1983
Opinion in Chambers

468 U. S.

violation of the jury cross-section requirement where there is
merely underrepresentation of a cognizable class because of
the failure of class members to register to vote. If I thought
this issue were squarely presented by the State's application,
I would grant a stay, because I think four Members of our
Court would probably vote to grant certiorari to review the
issue and, with California's rule requiring retrial in 60 days,
the case would become moot without a stay. Whether this
sort of jury selection procedure can be described as "systematically" excluding classes that do not register to vote in
proportion to their numbers, and whether the need for efficient jury selection may not justify resort to such neutral lists
as voter registration rolls even though they do not perfectly
reflect population, see 439 U. S., at 368-370, are by no means
open and shut questions under Duren.
The plurality opinion of the Supreme Court of California,
however, says in substance that the State failed to preserve
the second of these two questions in defending against
respondent's appeal. The concurring opinion in that court,
on the other hand, indicates disagreement with this view.
While I cannot at this stage of the proceedings determine
even to my own satisfaction which is the correct view of California law, I think this procedural snarl is likely to deter
some Members of this Court who would wish to review the
substantive issues involved in this case from voting to grant
certiorari. While there appears to be no such procedural
objection to the first of these two questions, I am doubtful
that the "systematic" underrepresentation issue alone would
attract enough votes to grant certiorari.
The State's application is accordingly denied.

