ZONNE v. MINNEAPOLIS SYNDICATE.
220 U. S.

Syllabus.

ganized under the statutory laws of Massachusetts.
Joint stock companies of the statutory character are not
known to the laws of that Commonwealth. Ricker v.
American L. & T. Co., 140 Massachusetts, 346. These
trusts do not have perpetual succession, but end with
lives in being and twenty years thereafter.
Entertaining the view that it was the intention of Congres to embrace within the corporation tax statute only
such corporations and joint stock associations as are
organized under some statute, or derive from that source
some quality or benefit not existing at the common law,
we are of opinion that the real estate trusts involved in
these two cases are not within the terms of the act. In
that view the decrees in both cases will be reversed and
the same remanded to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Massachusetts with directions
to overrule the demurrers and for further proceedings
consistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

ZONNE v. MINNEAPOLIS SYNDICATE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 627.

Argued January 19, 1911.-Decided March 13, 1911.

A corporation, the sole purpose whereof is to hold title to a single parcel
of real estate subject to a long lease and, for conyenience of the stockholders, to receive and distribute the rentals arising from such lease
and proceeds of disposition of the land, and which has disqualified
itself from doing any other business, is not a corporation doing busi'nss within the meaning of the corporation tax provisions of the
act of August 5, 1909, c. 6, 36 Stat. 11, 112, and is not subject to the
tax.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellant.

220 U. S.

THE facts, v hich involve the construction of the Corporation Tax Law, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. John R. Van Derlip, with whom Mr. Burt F. Lum
was on the brief, for appellant:
, Even if the Corporation Tax Law is constitutional, it
is not operative as respects the appellant. It is not a
corporation organized for profit; it is not carrying on or
doing business of any kind; its only income has been
rental paidto, and received by, it under a lease, for a term
of 130 years, of a tract of land owned by it' in the city of
Minneapolis, which is the only property it possesses.
It will thus be seen that the entire property of the
corporation is such that it has no power to engage in
business, for profit or otherwise, and that, if the corpora-tion be taxable at all, it is solely by reason of its, ownership of the premises described, which the Attorney General concedes; in the brief filed. in March, 1910, does not
fall Withhi the purview of the law.
Appellant is not organized for profit.- In order to constitute a business corporation or the carrying on or doing
of business by a corporation for profit, the profits must be
profits arising from the carrying on and doing,business.
Mundy v. Van Hoose, 104 Georgia, 292. "Profit" is dis'tinct from "income," and "organized for profit" does
not mean "owning property"' so as to embrace corporatipns which, though passive, receive incomes from invested property, but not from "'carrying- on or doing
business." Gray v. Darlington, 15'Wall. 63; Bennett v.
Austin, 81 N. Y. 308, 319;.People v. Supervisors,4 Hill, 20.
The ckrporation is not carrying on or doing business.
Riberts v. State, 26 Florida, 362; State v. Boston Club, 45
La. Ann. 585; Lyons-Thomas Hardware Co. v. Perry Stove
Mfg. Co., 86 Texas, 153; Graham v. Hendricks, 22 La.
Ann. 524; Harris v. State, 50 Alabama, 127; In re Alabama &c.Ry. Co., 9 Blatchf. 390; S. C., Fed. Cas. No. 124;

ZONNE v. MINNEAPOLIS SYNDICATE.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Holmes v. Holmes, 40 Connecticut, 117; People v. Horn
Silver Mining Co., 105 N. Y. 76, 83; State v. Barnes, 126
N. Car. 1063.
Individual acts performed for the private benefit of a
person are not taxable as constituting the doing or carrying on of business. 21 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 2d ed.,
811, n. 8; Cooley on Taxation, 2d ed., 571; State v. Anniston Rolling Mills, 125 Alabama, 121.
As to what constitutes "business" see Goddard v.
Chaffee, 2 Allen, 395; Hickey v. Thompson, 52 Arkansas,
237; Shryock v. Latimer, 57 Texas, 677; Braeutigan v.
Edwards, 38 N. J. Eq. 545. The defendant corporation
has no property except its leased land.. The corporation
has no income except rents; the law does not apply to
holding companies.
As to the attitude of Congress in respect of this class
of corporations, there is no room for debate. Not only
are they excluded from the application of the act by its
plain words (paragraph first), but, by the express affirmative action of Congress, they were excluded. See
remarks
debates. in 44 Congressional Record, 4228; and
of Senators Aldrich, Clapp, Cummins and others (p. 4233).
There was no appearance or brief filed for appellee.
The Solicitor General for the United. States by leave of
the Court.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered'the opinion'of the court.

This case involves the validity of the -Corporation Tax
Law just passed upon in No. 407, Flintv. Stone Tracy Company, ante, p. 107.
The case presents a peculiarity of corporate organization and purpose not involved in the case just decided.
The Minneapolis Syndicate, as the allegations of the bill,

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

admitted by the demurrer, show, was originally organized
for and engaged in the business of letting stores and offices
in a building owned by it, and collecting and receiving
rents therefor. On the twenty-seventh of December,
1906, the corporation demised and let all of the tracts, lots
and parcels of land belonging to it, being the. westerly half
of block 87 in the' city of Minneapolis, to Richard M.
Bradley, Arthur Lyman and Russell Tyson as trustees,
for the term of 130 years from January 1, .1907, at an
annual rental of: $61,000, to be paid bly.said lessees to said
corporation. At that time ^the corporation caused its
articles of incorporation, which had theretofore been those
of a corporation organized for,profit, to-be so amended as
to read:
"The sole purpose of the corporatio'n shall be to hold
the title to the westerly one-half of block 87 of the town
of Minneapolis, now vested in the 'corporation, subject to
a lease thereof for a term of one hundred and thirty years
from January 1, 1907, and, for the convenience of its
stockholders, to receive, and to distribute among them,
from time to time, the rentals that accrue under'said lease,
and the proceeds Of any disposition of said land."
Aswe have construed the Corporation Tax Law (Flintv.
Stone Tracy Co., ante, p. 107), it provides for an excise upon
the carrying on or doing of business in a corporate capacity. We have held in the preceding cases that corporations organized for profit under the laws of the State,
authorized to manage and rent real estate, and being so
engaged, are doing business within the meaning of the law,
and are therefore liable to the tax imposed.
The corporation involved in the present case, as originally organized and owning and renting an office building,
was doing business within the meaning of the statute as
we have construed-it. Upon the record now presented we
are of opinion 'that the Minneapolis Syndicate, after the
demise of the property and reorganization of the corpora-

EX PARTE OKLAHOMA.
220 U. S.

Syllabus

tion, was not engaged in doing' business within the meaning of the act. It had wholly parted with control and
management of the property; its sole authority was to
hold the title subject to the lease for 130 years, to receive
and distribute the rentals which might accrue under the
terms of the lease, or the proceeds of any sale of the land
if it should be sold. The corporation had practically gone
out of business in connection with the property and had
disqualified itself by the terms of reorganization from any
activity in respect to it. We are of opinion that the corporation was not doing business in such wise as to make it
subject to the tax imposed by the act of 1909. Holding
this view, we think the court below erred in sustaining the
demurrer to the bill. The decree of the court below is
therefore reversed and the cause remanded to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Minnesota
with directions to overrule the demurrer and for further
proceedings consistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

EX PARTE: IN THE MATTER OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA, BY CHARLES N. HASKELL, GOVERNOR, ETC., PETITIONER.
No. 9, Original. Argued April 4, 5, 1910; ordered for reargument before
full bench May 31, 1910; reargued February 23, 1911.-Decided April 3,
1911.

Prohibition is an extraordinary writ which will issue against a court
which is acting clearly without any jurisdiction whatever, and
where there is no other remedy; but where there is another legal
remedy, by appeal or otherwise, or where the question of jurisdiction is doubtful or depends on matters outside the record, the granting or refusal of the writ is discretionary. In re Rice, 155 U. S. 396.
Mandamus cannot perform the office of an appeal or writ of error and
is only granted as a general rule where there is no other adequate
remedy. Re Atlantic City R. R. Co., 164 U. S.633.

