90

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

TAYLOR v. LEESNITZER.
APPEAL FROM THE 'COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.
No. 45. Argued March 8, 1911.-Decided March 20, 1911.
Although generally slow to overrule decigions .of courts other than
those of the United States on questions of lbcal practice, this court
will do so where, as in this case, the court below yields a consideration -of the merits to form and takes too strict a view of its own
-powers.
When an appeal is taken in open court, all parties are present in fact
*or in law and have notice; formalities are not needed to indicate
that it is taken. against all parties.
The requirement of a bond in the Court of Appeals of the District of
Columbia does not go to the essence of the appeal, and the form
should be objected to. within twenty days; and where the appeal
was taken in open court, objections to the form of bond cannot be
taken on a motion to dismiss the appeal filed six months after the
apoeal was taken based on defects in the appeal.
Although too late for an appeal to be dismissed on account of the form
of bond, if the proper parties are before the court, leave can be given
to file an additional bond if desired.
31 App. D. C. 92, reversed.
THE

facts are-stated in the opinion.

Mr. J. J. Darlington, with whom Mr. J. Nota McGill
was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Edmund Burke for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the

court,
This is an appeal from a decree of the Court of Appeals
of the District of Columbia dismissingan appeal from a

TAYLOR v. LEESNITZER.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

decree of the Supreme Court. The bill was brought by
the appellee Leesnitzer, as one of the heirs of Thomas
Taylor, for a partition between herself and the other
heirs of lands acquired by Taylor after the execution of
his last will. By the will Taylor left all his estate, both
real and personal, to his widow, the appellant. See Bradford v. Matthews, 9 App. D. C. 438. Crenshaw v. McCormick, 19 App. D.C. 438. Code D. C., ยง 1628. Hardenbergh
v. Ray, 151 U. S. 112. The bill, of course, was adverse
to the appellant's right under the will, and also prayed
that she might be declared barred of her dower. See
Clark v. Roller, 199 U. S. 541, 545. After a trial there was
a decree for the plaintiff "unless the defendant Margaret
E. Taylor shall perfect her appeal from this decree, which
is prayed by her in open court and allowed, by giving a
supersedeas bond in the penal sum of One Thousand
dollars." The decree was filed on May 28, 1907. On
June 3, 1907, an appeal bond was filed, but in accordance
with the rules, under ordinary conditions, was not printed
in the transcript of the record sent to the Court of Appeals. The record was filed in that court on July 17,
1907. On February 12, 1908, the plaintiff Leesnitzer filed
a motion that the appeal be dismissed, because 1. Elizabeth E. Padgett, an heir and one of the defendants, ",has
not been joined either as an appellee or appellant or as a
party hereto. 2. That there has been no summons and
severance, or service of notification of appeal upon said
Elizabeth E. Padgett. Edmund Burke, solicitor for appellee." This motion was granted, on the ground that
Mrs. Padgett was not made a party, to the appeal.,
Thereupon the appellant moved to modify the decree
by allowing the appellant to correct her appeal by citing
the omitted parties and for such further proceedings as
might be necessary to a decision of the cause upon its
merits. The court held that as Mrs. Padgett had admitted the allegations of the bill and had arrayed herself.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

on the plaintiff's side, and as she had got all that she
could expect by the decree, the appellant did not need to
obtain a severance, but that the appeal should have been
taken against her as well as against the plaintiff and that
'the supersedeas bond should have run to both, which
'an inspection of the bond in the office of the clerk be1.w' showed not to have been the case. It was objected
that the court could not look beyond the record before it,
Which, as we have indicated, contained onlk a memorandum that a b6nd had been filed. But the record was entitled 'Margaret E. Taylor etc. v. Mary J.. Leesnitzer'
until within a few days before the case wasc'alled for
hearing, when the appellant ex parte caused the cover of
the printed record to be changed so as to name also Elizabeth E. Padgett and 'Franklin Padgett as appellees. It
was said that if the court should confine itself to the record
the presumption was that the title of the appeal followed
the obligation of the bond.:- On this ground the court,
with expiessions of regret, considered itself not at liberty
to entertain a motion for leave to file an additional bond.
We generally are slow to overrule the decisions of
courts other than courts of the United States upon matters of l5cal' practice. But as the Court of Appeals unwillingly yielded a consideration of the merits to what
in the circumstances probably was little more -than form,
we feel less hesitation than otherwise we might in acting
upon our opinion that it took too strict a view of its own
powers. :The first decision went on the ground that
Mrs. Padgett was not made a party to the appeal, and,
if we correctly understand the second, it also seems to
have stood, on the same -notion deduced as a conclusion
from the form of the bond, as disclosed by inspection or
:.presumed. No other was open under the motion except
one discarded by the court as We have shown, and no
other was or was likely to be taken by the Court of Appeals. But this ground cannot be taken on the record,

TAYLOR v. LEESNITZER.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

because the decree, in the Supreme Court states that an
appeal was prayed in open court.
When an appeal is taken in open court it does not need
the formalities of ancient law to indicate that it is taken
against all adverse interests. All parties are present in
fact or in law, and they have notice then and there. No
citation is required. Chicago & Pacific R. R. Co. v. Blair,
100 U. S. 66L Brockett v. Brockett, 2 How. 238. The requirement of a bond by a rule of the Court of Appeals
does not go to the essence of the appeal, as is shown by
the condition in the rule that the motion to dismiss for
want of one must be "made within the first twenty days
next after the receipt of the transcript in this Court."
Rule X. As the parties in this case had notice of the appeal, they were put upon inquiry as to the scope of the
bond, and if, as the Court of Appeals says, there is a presumption that the title of the transcript follows the obligation of the bond, they had actual notice of its form.
But the bond cannot create a retrospective presumption
as to the effect of the words spoken in open court on the
scope of the appeal. That was settled when the appeal
was claimed. It follows that no excuse is shown for not
objecting to the form of the bond within twenty days.
The motion to dismiss was not made until more than six
months after the receipt of the transcript, and then was
not based on the defect of the bond, but on supposed defects in the appeal. It was not made on behalf of the
party aggrieved by the omission from the bond. The
time has gone by when the appellant can be turned out
of court because Mrs. Padgett was not joined as obligee,
but if, as we have tried to show, the proper parties were
all before the higher court, no doubt leave would be
given to file an additional bond if an amendment were
desired.
Decree reversed.

