HIPOLITE EGG CO. v. UNITED STATES.
220 U. S.

Syllabus.

in the same twenty-four hours was before the mind of
Congress, and that there was no oversight in the choice of
words.
Judgment of Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed.

HIPOLITE EGG COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO AND APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE
UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 519.

Submitted January 5, 1911.-Decided March 13, 1911.

The object of the Pure Food and Drug Act of June 30, 1906, c. 3915,

34"Stat. 768, is to keep adulterated articles out of the channels of
interstate commerce, or if they enter such commerce to condemn
them while in transit, or in original or unbroken packages after
reaching destination; and the provisions of § 10 of the act apply
not only to articles for sale but also to articles to be used as raw
material in the manufacture of some other product.
In construing the Pure Food and Drug Act, all articles, compound or
single, not intended for consumption by the producer, are regarded
as designed for sale, and for that reason it is the concern of the law
to have them pure.
The remedies given by the statute in peronam and by condemnation
are not inconsistent and they are not dependent. The Three Friends,
166 U. S. 1.
By the Pure Food and Drug Act adulterated articles are, while in
interstate commerce, made culpable as well as their shipper; while
in original unbroken packages they can be seized and they carry
their own identification as contraband of law; they are subject to the
power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce, and they are
not beyond the jurisdiction of the National Government because
within the borders of a State. Quwcre, how far such articles can be
pursued beyond the original package.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

220 U. S.

Congress can use appropriate means to execute the power conferred
upon it by the Constitution and the seizure and condemnation of
prohibited articles in interstate commerce at their point of destination in original unbroken packages is an appropriate means. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316; Lottery Case, 188 U. S. 321, 355.
In a proceeding izrem under § 10 of the Pure Food and Drug Act tle
court has jurisdiction to enter personal judgment for costs against
the claimant. Quwere, whether the certificate in this case presents
the question of jurisdiction to award costs.

THE facts, which involve the construction of certain

provisions of the pure food act of June 30, 1906, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. Thomas E. Lannen and Mr. Edward T. Fenwick
for plaintiff in error:
Section 10 of the Food and Drugs Act does not apply
to an article of food which has not been shipped for sale,
but which has been shipped solely for use as raw material
in the manufacture of some other food product. United
States v. Sixty-five Casks Liquid Extracts, 170 Fed. Rep.
449; United States v. Knowlton Danderine Co., 175 Fed.
Rep. 1022. See also opinion of Judge Sater in the District Court for the Southern District of Ohio, Western
Division, in United States v. Forty-six Packages and Bags
of Sugar, No. 1964, on exceptions and demurrer, rendered about September 3, 1910.
When goods shipped into a State have been so acted
upon by the party in the State receiving them that they
become mixed with the general property in the State and
the goods become incorporated with the mass of state
property they are no longer in interstate commerce.
Waring v. The Mayor, 8 Wall. 110; Low v. Austin, 13
'Wall. 29; Cook v. Pennsylvania, 97 U. S.566.
The court does not obtain jurisdiction to proceed
against the res when the statute makes the res liable to
be proceeded against only under a certain state of facts
and such facts do not exist with respect to the res pro-

HIPOLITE EGG CO. v. UNITED STATES.
220 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

ceeded against. And in such a case the court has no
jurisdiction to confiscate the res.
A United States District Court has no jurisdiction to
proceed in rem under § 10 of the Food and Drugs Act of
June 30, 1906, against goods that have passed out of interstate commerce before the proceeding in rem was commenced.
In a proceeding in rem the court has no jurisdiction to
assess the costs in personam against a claimant who simply
files an answer but who does not enter into a stipulation
to pay the costs of the proceeding. The Monte A, 12
Fed. Rep. 331.
Where the law provides only for a proceeding in rem, a
proceeding in rem and one in personam cannot be joined
in the same libel. The Alida, 12 Fed. Rep. 343.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Fowler for the United
States:
The article of food in question was, when seized, in the
original packages as shipped, and had not passed beyond
the jurisdiction of the court by having become mixed
and intermingled with other property of the consignee.
The cans of eggs in question had not lost their identity
as articles of interstate commerce. Brown v. Maryland,
12 Wheat. 419; Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100; Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1; Waring v. The
Mayor, 8 Wall. 110; Low v. Austin, 13 Wall. 29; Cook v.
Pennsylvania, 97 U. S. 566, are not antagonistic to the
principles recently decided in cases cited by appellant.
As to what constitutes an original package, see definition given in McGregor v. Cone, 104 Iowa, 465, 471. The
cans in question had not passed beyond the jurisdiction
of the United States authorities.
The fact that the articles in question were the property
of consignor wheh shipped to themselves, to be used in
the manufacture of pastry, does not deprive them of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for the United States.

220 U. S.

privileges or relieve them from the liabilities of an interstate shipment.
The articles in question having been shipped from one
State into another in violation of an act of Congress and
having thus become liable to seizure, they might be pursued and seized wherever and in whatever condition
Congress has prescribed, regardless of whether they had
or had not become subject to the state laws. See §§ 3062,
3456, Rev. Stat. The same principle applies to the statute under consideration.
Congress has provided that the products may be seized
as long as they remain unloaded, unsold, or in the original
unbroken packages. The fact that the packages had been
commingled with other goods can only be material in determining whether the goods had become subject to the
state laws, but that fact is wholly immaterial, as their
subjection to state laws set no limitation upon the power
of Congress to authorize that they be further pursued.
Section 10 of the act when properly construed, authorizes the seizure of the cans of eggs in question at the instance of the United States Government.
The Food and Drugs Act is a remedial statute, and as
§ 10 prescribes one of the methods of suppressing the
frauds aimed at by the act, it should be liberally construed.
Taylor v. United States, 3 How. 197, 210; Rankin v. Hoyt,
4 How. 327, 332; United States v. Stowell, 133 U. S.1, 12;
Anglo-California Bank v. Secretary of the Treasury, 76
Fed. Rep. 742, 748; In re Coy, 31 Fed. Rep. 794; S. C.,
127 U. S. 733, 739; Farmers' Bank v. Dearing, 91 U. S.
29, 35; New Haven R. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Corn.,
200 U. S. 361, 391; Endlich, Inter. Stats., § 333; Gray v.
Bennett, 3 Metcalf, 522, 529; Reed v. Northfield, 13 Pick.
94, 101; Ellis v. Whitlock, 10 Missouri, 781; Sickles v.
Sharp, 13 Johnson, 497.
The statute is a remedial one designed to prevent
frauds upon the general public, and the intention of Con-

HIPOLITE EGG CO. v. UNITED STATES.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

gress in creating the same is undoubted. United States v.
Freeman, 3 How. 556, 565; Endlich, Inter. Stats., § 110.
When all parts of the act are read together it clearly appears that Congress intended that the shipment of an
article of food under the circumstances and for the purpose under and for which the preserved whole egg in question was shipped, should render such product liable to
seizure.
A reasonable and natural interpretation of the exact
language used in § 10 of the act includes the articles of
food seized in this case.
The construction insisted upon by plaintiff in error
would in a large measure nullify the beneficent effect of
the act, and defeat the object which Congress had in mind
in passing the same and should not be adopted, unless
the language of the act can admit of no other interpretation.
The court did not err in adjudging the costs of the
cause against plaintiff in error. While at common law
costs were not recoverable eo nomine, and hence cannot
be recovered except by statutory authority, 11 Cyc. 24,
under § 823, Rev. Stat., certain costs may be taxed and allowed to the officials mentioned. Jordanv. A gawam Woolen
Co., 3 Cliff. 239. See also chap. 33, Illinois Code of 1908,
§§ 7, 8, p. 582; The Monte A, 12 Fed. Rep. 331, and The
A lida, 12 Fed. Rep. 343, distinguished; and see The Ethel,
66 Fed. Rep. 340; Dubois v. Kirk, 158 U. 5. 58, 67; 1 Cyc.
730.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
The case is here on a question of jurisdiction certified
by the DistrictCourt.
On March 11, 1909, the United States instituted libel
proceedings under § 10 of the act of Congress of June 30,
.
VOL. ccxx-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

1906, c. 3915, 34 Stat. 768, against fifty cans of preserved
whole eggs, which had been prepared by the Hipolite
Egg Company of St. Louis, Missouri.
The eggs, before the shipment alleged in the libel, were
stored in a warehouse in St. Louis for about five months,
during which time they were the property of Thomas &
Clark, an Illinois corporation engaged in the bakery business at Peoria, Ill.
Thomas & Clark procured the shipment of the eggs to
themselves at Peoria, and upon the receipt of them placed
the shipment in their storeroom in their bakery factory
along with other bakery supplies. The eggs were intended for baking purposes, and were not intended for
sale in the original, unbroken packages or otherwise, and
were not so sold. The Hipolite Egg Company appeared
as claimant of the eggs, intervened, filed an answer, and
defended the case, but did not enter into a stipulation to
pay costs.
Upon .the close of libellant's evidence, and again at the
close of the case, couiisel for the Egg Company moved
the court to dismiss the libel on the ground that it appeared from the evidence that the court, as a Federal
court, had no jurisdiction to proceed against or confiscate
the eggs, because they were not shipped in interstate
commerce for sale within the meaning of § 10 of the Food
and Drugs Act, and for the further reason that the evidence
showed that the shipment had passed out of interstate
commerce before the seizure of the eggs, because it appeared that they had been delivered to Thomas & Clark
and were not intended to be sold by them in the original
packages or otherwise.
The motions were overruled and the court proceeded
to hear and determine the cause and entered a decree finding the eggs adulterated, and confiscating them. Costs
were assessed against the Egg Company.
The decree was excepted to on the ground that the

HIPOLITE EGG CO. v. UNITED STATES.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

court was without jurisdiction in rem over the subject
matter, and on the further ground that the court was
without jurisdiction to enter judgment in personam against
the Egg Company for costs.
The jurisdiction of the District Court being challenged,
the case comes here directly.
Section 2 of the Food and Drugs Act prohibits the introduction into any State or Territory from any other
State or Territory of any article of food or drugs which is
adulterated, and makes it a misdemeanor for any person
to ship or deliver for shipment such adulterated article,
or who shall receive such shipment, or, having received
it, shall deliver it in original unbroken packages for pay
or otherwise.
In giving a remedy § 10 provides that if "any article
of food that is adulterated and is being transported from
to another for sale, or, having been
one State .
transported, remains unloaded, unsold, or in original unbroken packages, . . . shall be liable to be proceeded
against in any district court of the United States within
the district where the same is found, and seized for confiscation by a process of libel for condemnation. .
The proceeding of such libel cases shall conform, as near
as may be, to the proceedings in admiralty . . . and
all such proceedings shall be at the suit of and in the name
of the United States."
The shipment to Thomas & Clark consisted of 130 separate cans, each can corked and sealed with wax. The
eggs were intended to be used for baking purposes. The
only can sold was that sold to the inspector for the purpose of having the eggs analyzed. They contained approximately two per cent of boric acid, which the court
found was a deleterious ingredient, and adjudged that
they were adulterated within the meaning of the Food
and Drugs Act of June 30, 1906, c. 3915, 34 Stat. 771.
The Egg Company, whilst not contending that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
-Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

shipment of the eggs was not a violation of § 2 of the act,
and a misdemeanor within its terms, and not denying
the power of Congress to enact it, presents three contentions: (1) Section 10 of the Food and Drugs Act does not
apply to an article of food which has not been shipped for
sale, but which has been shipped solely for use as raw material in the manufacture of some other product. (2) A
United States District Court has no jurisdiction to proceed in rem under § 10 against goods that have passed out
of interstate commerce before the proceeding in rem was
commenced. (3) The court had no jurisdiction to enter
a personal judgment against the Egg Company for costs.
It may be said at the 'outset of these contentions that
they insist that the remedies provided by the statute are
not coextensive with its prohibitions, and hence that it
has virtually defined the wrong and provided no adequate
means of punishing the wrong when committed. Premising this much, we proceed to their consideration in the
order in which they have been presented. The following
cases are cited to sustain the first contention: United
States v. Sixty-five Casks of Liquid Extracts, 170 Fed. Rep.
449, affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals in United
States v. Knowlton Danderine Jompany, 175 Fed. Rep.
1022, and United States v. Forty-six Packages and Boxes of
Sugar, in the District Court for the Southern District of
Ohio, not yet reported.
The articles involved in the first case were charged with
having been misbranded and consisted of drugs in casks,
which were shipped from Detroit, Michigan, to Wheeling,
West Virginia, there to be received by the Knowlton
Danderine Company in bulk in carload lots and manufactured into danderine, of which no sale was to be made
until the casks should be emptied and the contents placed
in properly marked bottles.
It was contended that the articles, not having been
shipped in the casks for the purpose of sale thus in bulk,

HIPOLITE EGG CO. v. UNITED STATES.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

but shipped to the owner fromone State to another for the
purpose of being bottled into small packages suitable for
sale, and when so bottled to be labeled in compliance with
the requirements of the act, were not transported for sale,
and were therefore not subject to libel under § 10 of the
act.
The contention submitted to the court the construction of the statute. The court, however, based its decision upon the want of power in Congress to prohibit one
from manufacturing a product in a State and removing it
to another State "for the purpose of personal use and not
sale, or for use in connection with the manufacture of other
-articles, to be legally branded when so manufactured;"
and concluded independently, or as construing the statute,
that the danderine company, being the owner of the property, shipped it to itself and did not come within any of
the prohibitions of the statute. The case was affirmed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals, 175 Fed. Rep. 1022. The
court, however, expressed no opinion as to the power of
Congress. It decided that the facts did not exhibit a case
within the purpose of the statute, saying: "No attempt to
evade the law, either directly or indirectly or by subterfuges, has been shown, it appearing that the manufacturer
had simply transferred from one point to another the
product he was manufacturing for the purpose of completing the preparation of the same for the market. Under
the circumstances disclosed in this case, having in mind
the object of the Congress in enacting the law involved,
we do not think the liquid extracts proceeded against
should be forfeited. In reaching this conclusion we do not
find it necessary to consider other questions discussed by
counsel and referred to in the opinion of the court."
In United States v. Forty-six Packages and Boxes of
Sugar the court construed the statute as applying only to
transportation for the purpose of sale. To explain its
view the court said: "Following the words 'having been

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
-Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

transported' is an ellipse, an omission of words necessary
to the complete construction of the sentence. These
words are found in the preceding part of the section and,
when supplied, the clause urlder which this libel is filed
reads and means, 'any article of food, drug or liquor that
is adulterated or misbranded within the meaning of this
act, having been transported from one State to another
for sale [italics ours], remains unloaded, unsold, or in original, unbroken packages, . . . shall be liable,' " etc.
And the court was of opinion that this view was in accord
with the other two cases which we have cited. This may
be disputed. It may well be considered that there is no
analogy between an article in the -hands of its owner or"
moved from one place to another by him, to be used in the
manufacture of articles subject to the statute and to be
branded in compliance with it, and an adulterated article
itself the subject of sale and intended to be used as adulterated in contravention of the purpose of the statute.
A legal analogy might be insisted upon if cakes and
cookies, which are the compounds of eggs and flour which
the record presents, could be branded to apprise of their
ingredients like compounds of alcohol. The object of the
law is to keep adulterated articles out of the channels of
interstate commerce, or, if they enter such commerce, to

condemn them while being transported or when they have
reached their destination, provided they remain unloaded,
unsold or in original unbroken packages. These situations
are clearly separate, and we cannot unite or qualify them
by the purpose of the owner to be a sale. It, indeed, may
be asked in what manner a sale? The question suggests
that we might accept the condition, and yet the instances
of this record be within the statute. All articles, compound or single, not intended for consumption by the producer, are designed for sale, and, because they are, it is
the concern of the law to have them pure.
It is, however, insisted that "the proceeding in per-

HIPOLITE EGG CO. v. UNITED STATES.
220 U. S.

55

Opinion of the Court.

sonam authorized by the law was intended to, and no
doubt is, capable of giving full force and effect to the law";
and, further, that a producer in a State is not interested in
an article shipped from another State which is not intended to be sold or offered for consumption until it is
manufactured into something else. The argument is
peculiar. It is certainly to the interest of a producer or
consumer that the article which he receives, no matter
whence it come, shall be pure, and the law seeks to secure
that interest, not only through personal penalties but
through the condemnation of the article if impure. There
is nothing inconsistent in the remedies, nor are they dependent. The Three Friends, 166 U. S.1, 49.
The first contention of the Egg Company is, therefore,
untenable.
2. Under this contention it is said that "the jurisdiction of the food and drugs act in question can go no
farther than the power given to Congress under which it
wAs enacted," and that the District Court, therefore,
"had no jurisdiction in rem because at the time of the
seizure the eggs had passed into the general mass of property in the State and out of the field covered by interstate
commerce."
To support the contention, Waring v. The Mayor, 8
Wall. 110, is cited. That case involved the legality of a
tax imposed by an ordinance of the city of Mobile upon
merchants and traders of the city equal to one-half of one
per cent on the gross amount of their sales, whether the
merchandise was sold at public or private sale. Waring
was fined for non-payment of the tax, and he brought suit
to restrain the collection of the fine, alleging that he was
exempt from the tax on the ground that the sales made by
him were bo merchandise in the original packages, as imported from a foreign country, and which was purchased
by him, in entire cargoes, of the consignees of the importing vessels before their arrival, or while the vessels were

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

in the lower harbor of the port. He obtained a decree in
the trial court which was reversed by the Supreme Court
of the State of Alabama. A writ of error was sued out
from this court and the decree was affirmed, on the ground
that Waring was not the shipper or consignee of the imported merchandise, nor the first vendor of it, and it was
the settled law of the court "that merchandise in the
original packages once sold by the importer is taxable as
other property," citing Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat.
443; Almy v. California,24 How. 173; Pervearv. Common-

wealth, 5 Wall. 479. This also was said:
"When- the importer sells the imported articles, or
otherwise mixes them with the general property of the
State by breaking up the packages, the state of things
changes, as was said by this court in the leading case, as
the tax then finds the articles already incorporated with
the mass of property by the act of the importer. Importers selling the imported articles in the original packages are.shielded from any such state tax, but the privilege
of exemption is not extended to the purchaser, as the
merchandise, by the sale and delivery, loses its distinctive
character as an import."
This case is clear as far as it goes, but the facts are not
the same as those in the case at bar.
In the case at bar there was no sale of the articles after
they were committed to interstate commerce, nor were the
original packages broken. Indeed, it might be insisted
that we need go no farther than that case for the rule of
decision in this. It affirms the doctrine of original packages which was expressed and illustrated in previous cases
and has been expressed and illustrated in subsequent ones.
It is too firmly fixed to need or even to justify further
discussion, and we shall not stop to affirm or deny its
application to the special contention of the Egg Company.
We prefer to decide the case on another ground which is
sustained by well-known principles.

HIPOLITE EGG CO. v. UNITED STATES.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The statute declares that it is one "for preventing
the transportation of adulterated . . . foods
and for regulating traffic therein;" and, as we have seen,
§ 2 makes the shipper of them criminal and § 10-subjects
them to confiscation, and, in some cases, to destruction,
so careful is the statute to prevent a defeat of its purpose.
In other words, transportation in interstate commerce is
forbidden to them, and, in a sense, they are made culpable as well as their shipper. It is clearly the purpose of
the statute that they shall not be stealthily put into interstate commerce and be stealthily taken out again
upon arriving at their destination and be given asylum
in the mass of property of the State. Certainly not, when
they are yet in the condition in which they were transported' to the State, or, to use the words of the statute,
while they remain "in the original, unbroken packages."
In that condition they carry their own identification as
contraband of law. Whether they might be pursued beyond the original package we are not called upon to say.
That far the statute pursues them, and, we think, legally
pursues them, and to demonstrate this but little discussion is necessary.
The statute rests, of course, upon the power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce, and, defining that
power, we have said that no trade can be carried on between the States to which it does not extend, and have
further said that it is complete in itself, subject to no limitations except those found in the Constitution. We are
dealing, it must be remembered, with illicit articles-articles which the law seeks to keep out of commerce, because
they are debased by adulteration, and which law punishes
them (if we may so express ourselves) and the shipper
of them. There is no denial that such is the purpose of
the. law, and the :only limitation of the power to execute,
such Ourpose which is urged is that the articles must be
.apprehended in transit or before they have become a part

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

of the general mass of property of the State. In other
words, the contention attempts to apply to articles of
illegitimate commerce the rule which marks the line between the exercise of Federal power and st'te power over
articles of legitimate commerce. The contention misses
the question in the case. There is here no conflict of
national and state jurisdictions over property legally articles of trade. The question her.e is whether articles
which are outlaws of commerce may be seized wherever
found, and it certainly will not be contended that they
are outside of the jurisdictidn of the National Government when they are within ,the borders of a State. The
question in the case, therefore is, What power has Congress over such articles? Can they escape the consequences of their illegal transportation by being mingled
at the place of destination with other property? To give
them suchi. immunity would defeat, in many cases, the
provision for their confiscation, and their confiscation or
destructibn is the especial concern of the law. The power
to do so is certainly appropriate to the right to bar them
from interstate commerce, and completes its purpose,
which is not to prevent merely the physical movement
of adulterated articles, but the use of them, or rather to
prevent trade in them between the States by denying
to them the facilities of interstate commerce. And appropriate ineans to that end, which we have seen is legitimate, are the seizure -and condemnation of the articles
at their point of destination in the original, unbroken
packages. The selection of such means is certainly
within that breadth of discretion which we have said
Congress possesses in the execution of the powers conferred upon it by the Constitution. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316; Lottery Case, 188 U. S. 321, 355.
3. Had the court jurisdiction to adjudge costs against
the Egg Company? This is contended, and in support
of the contention the claimant assimilates this proceed-

HIPOLITE EGG CO. v.UNITED STATES.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing to one in admiralty' In consequence, it nay be supposed of the provisions of § 10 of the Food and Drugs Act
that the proceedings "shall conform, as near as may be,
to the proceedings in admiiralty," and The Monte A, 12
Fed. Rep. 331, and The Alida, 12 Fed. Rep. 343, are cited
as deciding that in a proceeding in rem the court has no
jurisdiction to assess the costs in personam against the
claimant, who simply files an answer, but who does not
enter into a stipulation to pay the costs of the proceeding. Too broad a deduction is made from these cases.
They undoubtedly decide that a process in rem and in
personam cannot be joined in aamiralty in the same libel,
but it was not held that this was because of a want of jurisdictional power in the court. Such view was disclaimed
in The Monte A, and to show that the framing of a libel
against the owner in personam and against the vessel
in rem was not jurisdictional, the court said that a breach
of a contract of affreightment could have been so framed
"long before the adoption of the Supreme Court rules in
admiralty."
It is stated in Benedict's Admirialty, § 204, that "the
distinction between proceedings in rem and in personam
has no proper relation to the question of jurisdiction."
It may be, as stated in § 359 of the same work, that "in a
suit in rem, unless some one intervenes, the power and
process of the court is confined to the thing itself and does
not reach either the person or property of the owner."
If, however, the owner comesin, or an intervenor does,
his appearance is voluntary. He becomes an actor and
subjects himself to costs, and this even if his ownership
be averred in the libel. Waple Proceedings In Rem,
page 100, § 73; United States v. 422 Casks of Wine, 1
Pet. 547.
And such seems to be the necessary effect of Admiralty
Rules 26 1and 34.1 It is provided (Rule 34) that if a third
1 For these Rules in full see 210 U. S. 552, 554.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

person intervene, for his own interest, he is required to
give a stipulation with sureties to abide the final decree
rendered in the'original or appellate court. It is in effect
conceded that if such a stipulation be given, a judgment
for costs: can be rendered. But, upon what theory? The
concession confounds the relation between the stipulation
and the judgment, and makes the security for the payment of the judgment the source of jurisdiction to render
it-jurisdiction according to the contention, which the
court does not have as a Federal court.
Even, therefore, upon the supposition that the principles of the admiralty law are to apply to the proceedings
under § 10, we think the court had jurisdiction to render
a juagment for costs against the Egg Company.
So far our discussion has been in deference to the contention of the Egg Company, but it is disputable if the
certificate presents a question of jurisdiction as to costs.
The District Court gets its jurisdiction of the cause from
§ 10 of the Food and Drugs Act, and whether the libel may
be in rem and in personam, or whether a personal judgment for costs can be rendered, may be said to be simply
a question of the construction of the section, and not one
which involves the jurisdiction of the court. In other
words, the rulings of the court may be error only, not in
excess of its power. It certainly had jurisdiction of the
person of the Egg Company.
Decree affirmed.

