OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Counsel for Parties.

220 U. S.

U. S. 436. That case was this. The State of Nebraska
was one of the plaintiffs in a cause removed from a state
court into a Circuit Court of the United States on the
ground that there was a separable controversy between
the other plaintiffs in the cause and the defendant. The
Circuit Court having denied a motion to remand, the
State of Nebraska applied to this court for a writ of mandamus to compel the remanding of the cause, averring that
it was plain from the record that it was the real and in
substance the onlr party plaintiff in the removed cause.
The application for the writ, however, was denied upon
the ground that the order overruling the motion to remand
was subject after final judgment to be reviewed by appeal, and therefore was not properly reviewable by the'
writ of mandamus.,
Rule discharged and prohibition denied.

EX PARTE: IN THE MATTER OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA (NO. 2).
No. 10. Original. Argued April 4, 5, 1910; ordered for reargument before
full bench May 31, 1910; reargued February 23, 1911.-Decided April 3,
1911.

Writs of prohibition refused on authority of Ex parte Oklahoma, ante,
p. 191.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Joseph W. Bailey and Mr. Fred S. Caldwell for the
State of Oklahoma.
Mr. Joseph S. Graydon, with whom Mr. Lawrence
Maxwell and Mr. E. G. McAdamns were on the brief, for
respondents and as amici curie.

EX PARTE OKLAHOMA (NO. 2).
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. S. T. Bledsoe, with whom Mr. A. B. Browne, Mr.
Alexander Britton, Mr. Evans Browne and Mr. J. B. Cottingham were on the brief, for respondents in opposition.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
In this case it is asked that a writ of prohibition be
issued restraining District Judge Cotteral, sitting as judge
of the Circuit Court for the Western District of Oklahoma,
from further proceeding in seven separate actions commenced in said court-two brought by railroad companies
and five by shippers-like in character to the cases which
formed the basis of the application made in No. 9, Original. The grounds upon which the right to the writ in
this case is based are also substantially the same as in the
other.
Of the seven suits referred to the first was commenced
by the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway Company
in August, 1908, the second by the Missouri, Kansas and
Texas Railway Company in October, 1908, and the remaining cases were commenced in October and November, 1909.
The bill of the Atchison road, among other things, alleged the taking possession by the defendants of more than
forty-three separate interstate shipments of intoxicating
liquors while in .the custody of the railway company and
before delivery. to the consignee and the'threatened confiscation of the property. In both of the suits commenced
by the railway companies no jurisdictional objection was
raised at any time in the Circuit Court. Not only was
this so, but in a cross complaint incorporated with answers filed in each case one of the defendants, counsel to
the governor of Oklahoma, prayed relief against the railway companies, upon the theory that by the delivery of
interstate shipments to persons who intended to use the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opifiion. of the Court.

220 U. S.

,same in violation of the state prohibition law, the "complainant thereby creates a public nuisance-in said State."
In the five suits commenced by foreign liquor dealers,
however, demurrers "for lack of, jurisdiction and equity"
were filed, and in all but one lengthy answers were filed.
In two of the cases numerous affidavits 'were filed and
temporary orders were refused, whereupon amended bills
were filed and temporary injunctions were granted. Proceedings in contempt were also instituted in several of the
cases for alleged violations of the injunctions. Moreover,
in several of the cases the demurrers were heard and overruled, while in the others no action was taken subsequent
to the filing of the answers or demurrers. In certain of the
cases also affidavits were filed to the effect that goods
which had been ordered returned by a justice of the peace
upon the ground that they, were exempt from seizure because the interstate transportation . had not ended were
again seized upon search warrants issued by another
justice..
In his return to the rule to show cause the District
Judge, among other things, said:
"The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court in these cases i*s
supported in general by, the averments in the pleadings of
the complainants that the opposing parties are citizens of
different States and that the respective amounts in dispute exceed $2,000.00; and furthermore that the cases
arise under the Constitution of the United States by involving acts of alleged interference with transactions in
interstate commerce and the question of the right to protection of the same. The equity jurisdiction of the court
is invoked by the complainants on the ground of the necessity of relief to prevent irreparable injury and avoid a
multiplicity of suits.
"The pleadings disclose that the complainants allege :
transactions by way of shipment of intoxicating liquors
from other States to points in Oklahoma, and assert the

EX PARTE OKLAHOMA (NO. 2).
220 U. S.

Opinion of the (,ourt.

right to the transportation and delivery of the same to
consignees in the State, as commodities of interstate commerce, and charge actual and threatened seizures thereof
by the defendants before delivery within the State, not
remediable at. law. Wherefore, the amount in dispute
being found sufficient, the jurisdiction of the court was
held to arise for the purpose of hearing and investigating
the grievances complained of and any defense which
might be interposed, and to grant or deny relief as the
facts and the law might warrant. Although the defendants sought to justify their conduct upon the ground that
they were state officers and represented the State in discharging their duties, the court was of the opinion that
jurisdiction- existed to proceed, consistently with the
Eleventh Amendment to the Federal Constitution.
*

*

*

,*

*

*.

*

*

"The question made upon the jurisdiction of the court
was regarded as one pertaining to the merits rather than
to original jurisdiction, and as instituting the inquiry
whether in the exercise of jurisdiction the defendants
might be relieved of the suits on the ground that they
represented the State. But it was believed that before
the defendants could succeed with that defense, it was
incumbent on them to justify their conduct under a valid
law of the State, and that this they could not do, if the
liquors they were seeking to seize and confiscate were
undelivered commodities of interstate commerce.
"With respect to the objection founded on section 720
of -the Revised Statutes of the United States, it appears
that the orders by their terms do not stay proceedings or
direct the restoration of property, but restrain seizufes.
It was the opinion of the Circuit Court that the statiUe
does not limit the federal judicial power so as to forbid
injunctions against future proceedings. But aside from
this, if the orders were not erroneous, they do not affect

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

220 U. S.

the seizure of property subject to the police power of the
State."
It is manifest that the reasons which led to the refusal
to issue the writ in No. 9, Original, just decided, are applicable to and control this case) and the order therefore
will be
Rule discharged and prohibition denied.

MARTINEZ v. INTERNATIONAL BANKING
CORPORATION.
SAME v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.

Nos. 79, 80. Argued March 3, 6, 1911.-Decided April 3, 1911.
The value of the matter in dispute in this court is the test of jurisdiction. Hilton v. Dickinson, 108 U. S. 165.
Where the only question is the amount of indebtedness, which the
security was sold to satisfy, that is the measure of the amount in
controversy, and the counterclaim for return, of the property sold
cannot be added to the amount of the debt to determine the amount
in controversy and give this court jurisdiction. Harten v. L6ffler,
212 U. S. 397, distinguished.
The mere fact that suits are tried together for convenience does not
amount to a cnsolidation, and where the understanding of the trial
judge was thai there was no consolidation this court will not unite
the actions so that the aggregate amount will give jurisdiction.
A judgment of the intermediate appellate court reversing and remanding with instructions to enter judgment for plaintiff in accordance with its decision without fixing a definite amount is not such
a final judgment as will give jurisdiction to this court.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

