FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

107

Corporation Tax Cases.

FLINT v. STONE TRACY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE DISTRICT OF VERMONT.

VAN

DERHOEFF v. CONEY ISLAND AND
BROOKLYN RAILROAD COMPANY.

HINE v. HOME LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

SMITH v. NORTHERN TRUST COMPANY.
MINER v. CORN EXCHANGE NATIONAL BANK.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

CEDAR STREET COMPANY v. PARK REALTY
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE SOUTHERN' DISTRiCT OF NEW YORK.

JARED v. AMERICAN MULTIGRAPH COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

GAY v. BALTIC MINING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTWS.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
220 U. S.

Syllabus.

BRUNDAGE v. BROADWAY REALTY COMPANY.
LACROIX v. MOTOR TAXIMETER CAB
COMPANY.
LYMAN v. INTERBOROUGH RAPID TRANSIT
COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR

THE SOUTHERN

DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

PHILLIPS v. FIFTY ASSOCIATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

,MITCHELL v. CLARK IRON COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.

FLUHRER v. NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN

DISTRICT

OF NEW YORK.

COOK v. BOSTON WHARF COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Nos. 407, 409, 410, 411, 412, 415, 420, 425, 431, 432, 442, 443, 446, 456,
457. Argued March 17, 18, 1910; restored to docket for reargumcnt
May 31, 1910; reargued January 17, 18, 19, 1911.-Decided March 13,

loll.

The Corporation Tax, as imposed by Congress in the Tariff Act of
1909, islnot a direct tax but an excise; it does not fall within the aPportionment clause of the Constitution, but is within, and conplies
with, the provision for uniformity throughout the United States; it
is an excise on the privilege of doing business in a corporate capacity

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

Syllabus.

and as suchis within the power of Congress to impose; franchises of
corporations are not governmental agencies of the State and the tax
is not invalid as an attempt to tax state governmental instrumentalities; not being direct taxation, but an excise, the tax is properly
measured by the entire income of the parties subject to it notwithstanding a part of such income.may be derived from non-taxable
property; the tax does not take property without due process of law
nor is it arbitrarily unequal in its operation either by differences in
corporations or by reason of the classes exempted; the method of its
enforcement is within the power of Congress and all corporations,
not specially exempted by the act itself, carrying on any business,
are subject to the provisions of the law.
The substitution of a tax on incomes of corporations for a tax on inheritance in a bill for raising revenue is an amendment germane to
the subject-matter and not beyond the power of the Senate to propose under § 7, Art. I, of the Constitution, providing that such bills
shall originate in the House of Representatives but that the Senate
may propose or concur in amendments as in other bills. The corporation tax provision of the Tariff Act of 1909 is not unconstitutional as being a revenue measure not originating in the House of
Representatives under § 7, Art. I, of the Constitution; but so held
without holding that the journals of the House or Senate may be
examined to invalidate an act which has been passed and signed by
the presiding officers of both branches of Congress, approved by the
President and deposited with the State Department.
A tax, such as the Corporation Tax imposed by the Tariff Act of 1909,
on corporations, joint stock companies, associations organized for
profit and having a capital stock represented by shares, and insurance companies, and measured by the income thereof, is not a tax
on franchises of those paying it, but a tax upon the doing of business
with the advantages which inhere in the peculiarities of corporate or
joint stock organization of the character described in the act.
Joint stock conipanies and associations share many benefits of corporate organization and are properly classified with corporations in a
tax measure such as the Corporation Tax. Spreckels Sugar Refining
Co. v. McGlain, 192 U. S.397.
While the legislature cannot by a declaration change the real nature of
a tax it imposes, its declaration is entitled to weight in construing
the statute and determining what the actual nature of the tax is.
The Corporation Tax is not a direct tax within the enumeration provision of the Constitution, but is an impost or excise which Congress

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

220 U. S.

has power to impose under Art. I, § 8, cl. 1, of the Constitution.
Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429; 158 U. S. 601,
distinguished.
Indirect taxation includes a tax on business done in a corporate capacity; the difference between it and direct taxation imposed on
property because of its ownership is substantial and not merely
nominal.
Excises are taxes laid upon the manufacture, sale or consumption of
commodities within the country, upon licenses to pursue certain
occupations and upon corporate privileges; the requirement to pay
such taxes involves the exercise of the privilege and if business is not
done in the manner described no tax is payable.
The only limitations on the power of Congress to levy excise taxes are
that they must be for the public welfare and must be uniform
throughout the United States; they do not have to be apportioned.
Courts may not add any limitations on the power of Congress to impose excise taxes to that of uniformity, which was deemed sufficient
by those who framed and adopted the Constitution.
The revenues of the United States must be obtained from the same
territory, and the same people, and its excise taxes collected from
the same activities, as are also reached by the States to support their
local governments; and this fact must be considered in determining
whether there are any implied limitations on the Federal power to
tax because of the sovereignty of the States over matters within their
exclusive jurisdiction.
Enactments of Congress levying taxes are, as are other laws of the
Federal Government acting within constitutional authority, the
supreme law of the land.
Business activities such as those enumerated in the Corporation Tax
Law are not beyond the excise taxing power of Congress because
executed under franchises created by the States.
The power of Congress to raise revenue is essential to national existence and cannot be impaired or limited by individuals incorporating
and acting under state authority. The mere fact that business is
transacted pursuant to state authority creating private corporations
does not exempt it from the power of Congress to levy excise laws
upon the privilege of so doing.
The exemption from Federal taxation of the means and instrumentalities employed in carrying on the governmental operations of the
States does not extend to state agencies and instrumentalities used
for carrying on business of a private character. South Carolina v.
United States, 199 U. S. 437.

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

Syllabus.

The constitutional limitation of uniformity in excise taxes does not
require equal application of the tax to all coming within its operation, but is limited to geographical uniformity throughout the
United States. Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41.
Even if the principles of the equal protection provision of the Fourteenth Amendment were applicable there is no such arbitrary and
unreasonable classification of business activities enumerated in and
subject to the Corporation Tax Law as would render that law invalid. There is a sufficiently substantial difference between business as carried'on in the manner specified in the act and as carried
on by partnerships and individuals to justify the classification.
There are distinct advantages in carrying on business in the manner
specified in the Corporation Tax Law over carrying it on by partnerships or individuals, and it is this privilege which is the subject of the
tax and not the mere buying, selling or handling of goods.
While a direct tax may be void if it reaches non-taxable property, the
measure of an excise tax on privilege may be the income from all
property, although part of it may be from that which is non-taxable;
and the Corporation Tax is not invalid because it is levied on total
income including that derived'from municipal bonds and other nontaxable property.
The measurement of the Corporation Tax by net income is not beyond
the power of Congress as arbitrary aid baseless. Selection of the
measure and .objects of taxation devolve upon Congress and not on
the courts; it is not the function of the latter to inquire into the
reasonableness of the excise either as to amount or property on
which it is to be imposed.
Congress has power to impose the Corporation Tax and the act is not
void as'lacking in due process of law under the Fifth Amendment.
Although the power to tax is. the power to destroy) McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, the courts cannot prevent its lawful exercise because of the fear that it may lead to disastrous results. The remedy
is with the people by the election of their representatives.
Business is a comprehensive term and embraces evetything -about
which a person can be employed; and corporations engaged in such
activities as leasing and managing property, collecting rents, making investments for profit and leasing taxicabs, are engaged in business within the meaning of the Corporation Tax Law.
It is no part of the essential governmental function of a State to provide means of transportation and to supply artificial light, water and
the like; and although the. people of the State may derive a benefit
therefrom, the public service companies carrying on such enterprises

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

220 U. S.

are private, and are subject to legitimate Federal taxation, such as
the Corporation Tax the same as other corporations are.
Congress has the right to select the objects of excise taxation, and this
includes the right to make exemptions; exceptions in the Corporation Tax Law of labor, agricultural, religious and certain other
organizations, do not invalidate the tax or render the law unconstitutional.
Courts cannot substitute their judgment for that of the legislature;
where details as to estimating the amount of an excise tax, such as
the deductions for interest on bonded and other indebtedness provided by the Corporation Tax Law, are not purely arbitrary, they
do not invalidate the tax.
If an excise tax operates equally on the subject-matter wherever found
its geographical uniformity is not affected by the fact that it may
produce unequal results in different parts of the Union.
Corporations, acting as trustees or guardians under the authority of
laws of a State and compensated by the interests served and not by
the State, are not agents of the state government in a sense that
exempts them from the operations of Federal taxation.
If it is within the power of Congress to impose the tax, it is also
within its power to enact effectual means to collect the tax. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 421.
The unreasonable search and seizure provision of the Fourth Amendment does not prevent the Federal Government from requiring
ordinary and reasonable tax returns such as those required by the
Corporation Tax Law.
This court will not pass on questions of constitutionality of a statute
until they arise, and no question is now presented as .towhether the
provisions of the Corporation Tax Law offend the self-incrimination
provisions of the Fifth Amendment or whether the penalties for
non-compliance are so high as to violate the Constitution; the
penalty provisions of the act are separable and their constitutionality can be determined if a proper case arises.
No case is presented on this record involving the question of lack of
power to tax foreign corporations doing local business in a State, or
whether, if the tax on foreign corporation is unconstitutional, it
would invalidate the tax on domestic corporations as working
an inequality against the latter; nor is any case presented involving
the invalidity of the act as a tax on exports.

THE facts, which involve the constitutional validity
of the Corporation Tax Law, being section 38, of the

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

Argument for Appellant in No. 407.

Payne-Aldrich Tariff Act .of August 5, 1909, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. Maxwell Evars, with whom Mr. Henry S. Wardner
and Mr. John G. Sargent, Attorney General of the State
of Vermont, were on the brief, for appellant in No. 407:
The Corporation Tax Law, so far as it affects the defendant corporation, is unconstitutional because it invades the sovereignty of the States.
The tax and the other burdens of the Corporation Tax
Law fall upon the corporate franchise of the defendant
corporation. See President's message, June 16, 1909, declaring that it is an excise tax upon the privilege of doing
business as an artificial entity and of freedom from a general partnership liability enjoyed by those who own the
stock. 44 Cong. Rec. 3344; and speech of Senator Newlands, Id. 3757, and the several amendments and speeches
thereon, Id. 3836, 3935, 4024.
Senator Root placed the corporation tax on the same
plane as the tax on the privilege of dealing on boards of
exchange, citing Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S.509; 44 Cong.
Rec. 4005, but see pp. 4025, 4029. The leading lawyers
of both parties in the Senate admitted that the tax was
understood to be a tax on the privilege or franchise of
acting in a corporate capacity.
No opportunity for a hearing was given to the corporations by any committee of the Senate or House of Representatives and no novel revenue -measure ever passed
through Congress with less scrutiny of its constitutionality.
See Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, 44 Cong. Rec.
4032, 4036; Id. 3977, 3978.
Individuals or copartnerships, though carrying on the
same character of business, being exempt, corporations
are taxed not on account of the character of their business
but on account of their being corporations.
As to what constitutes a corporate franchise see Home
VOL. CCXX-8

OCTOBER TERM. 1910.
Argument for Appellant in No. 407.

220 U. S.

Insurance Co. v. New York, 134 U. S. 594, 599; Hall v.
Sullivan Railroad Co., 11 Fed. Cas. 257; Memphis Railroad Co. v. Commissioners, 112 U.- S. 609; Horn Silver
Mining Co. v. New York, 143 U. S. 305, 312.
This law, therefore, is a burden: upon the right to be a
corporation. Pollock v. Farmers'L. & T. Co., 157 U. S. 429,
dissent of Fuller, Ch. J., p. 581; and of Brown, J., p. 691.
Until 1870 no Federal tax had been checked by this
court on the ground that it invaded the sovereignty of a
State; but long before that it did declare that a state tax
had invaded the sovereignty of the United States. In
McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, this court held
that an instrumentality of government could not be taxed
in respect to its operation by one of the States. See also
Osborn v. United States Bank, 9 Wheat. 738, 859.
A state tax so far as it invades the constitutional
powers and sovereignty of the United States is void and
a Federal tax so far as it invades*the reserved powers and
sovereignty of the States is equally void. Weston v.
Charleston, 2 Pet. 449; Bank of Commerce v. New York
City, 2 Black, 620; Dobbins v. Erie County, 16 Pet. 435..
As to impropriety of taxation of state instrumentalities,
see expressions of this court in Worcester v. Georgia, 6
Pet. 515, 570; Ableman v. Booth, 21 How. 506; License
-Tax Cases, 5 Wall. 462, 470; Pervearv. The Commonwealth,
,5 Wall. 475; Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113, affirming 3
Cliff. 376; Railroad Co. v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5, 30; United
States v. RailroadCo., 17 Wall. 322, 327'
As to exemption of municipal bonds from Federal taxation, see Mercantile Bank v. New York, 121 U. S. 138, 162;
Pollock v. Farmers' L. & T. Co., 157 U. S. 429, 583, 601652; Plummer v. Coler, 178 U. S. 115. For other cases
preventing invasion of sovereignty through taxation, see
Van Brocklin v. Tennessee, 117 U. S. 151; Ambrosini v.
United States, 187 U. S. 1; Bettman v. Warwick, 108 Fed.
Rep. 46.

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

Argument for Appellant in No. 407.

States cannot tax United States patents. Patterson v.
Kentucky, 97 U. S. 501; Webber v. Virginia, 103 U. S. 344;
Allen v. Riley, 203 U. S. 347; Re Sheffield, 64 Fed. Rep.
833; Commonwealth v. Westinghouse Mfg. Co., 151 Pa. St.
265; Edison Co. v. Board of Assessors, 156 N. Y. 417.
A patent is a franchise. Bloomer v. McQuewan, 14
How. 539, 549; Seymour v. Osborne, 11 Wall. 516; Patterson v. Kentucky, 97 U. S. 501, 506. A State cannot tax a
Federal corporate franchise. California v. Cent. Pac.
R. R. Co., 127 U. S. 1; Cent. Pac. R. R. Co. v. California,
162 U. S. 91.
Taxation of a state corporate franchise is beyond the
power of Congress. The granting of charters and franchises to corporations is a prerogative of the crown; as
such, it is owned by the States. Wheeler v. Smith, 9 How.
55, 78. In Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, the tax was
not on the franchise; the statute there under discussion
may be sustained on the strength of the Government's
power to regulate currency. See Head Money Cases, 112
U. S. 580.
If § 122 of the Internal Revenue Act of 1864, as amended
in 1866, affords a precedent for the corporation tax of
1909, Railroad Co. v. Collector, 100 U. S. 595, does not
sustain the corporation tax nor does United States v.
Railroad Co., 17 Wall. 322; or Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S.
509.
- The transmission of property on the occasion of the
owner's death, being an inevitable occurrence, can be
taxed to any extent by the United States without preventing the transmission. On the other hand, corporate franchises are government creations; they may easily be taxed
to extinction, and the granting of franchises may easily be
prevented by the mere enactment of a tax statute.
There is a clear distinction between a Federal, tax on the
doing of a thing with or in respect to property which the
State did not create, and a Federal tax on ,a corporate

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellant in No. 407.

220 U. S.

franchise created and granted out of state sovereignty.
Thomas v. United States, 192 U. S. 363; Spreckels Sugar
Refining Co. v. McClain, 192 U. S. 397, do not support
the constitutionality of the corporation tax. The latter
case sustained § 27 of the War Revenue Act as an excise
tax on a particular business and was in line with Pacific
Ins. Co. v. Soule, 7 Wall. 433. The Corporation Tax Law
mentions no particular business except insurance. South
'Carolinav. United States, 199 U. S. 437, does not apply.
The tax was laid on the dispensaries not because they
were empowered by the State, but because they dealt in
liquors. The Corporation Tax Law falls upon corporations because they are empowered by the State and not
because they do a general business.
Until the enactment of the Corporation Tax Law no
such tax had been imposed by Congress. In 122 years
of legislation under the Constitution the corporation tax
of 1909 is the first of its kind. Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S.
13, 86.
The burdens of the Corporation Tax Law fall on the
franchise of every corporatidn. The law therefore puts
the burden on the power of the States to create corporations, and mere phraseology counts for little as against the
substance and effect when the constitutionality of the law
is attacked. Pollock v. Farmers' L. & T. Co., 157 U. S.
429, 580; Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S.41, 81; Spreckels
Sugar Refining Co. v. McClain, 192 U. S.397, 411.
The plain language of the Tenth Amendment to the
Constitution is not to be evaded by a device which clothes
an invasion of state sovereignty in a new name.
Among the "ordinary functions" of state government
is the creation- of corporations, and the exercise of a
prerogative of sovereignty in creating them is strictly
governmental. The invasion of state sovereignty through
the corporation tax is actual and real.
The operation of the law would result in confiscation

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

Argument for Appellant in No. 407.

instead of taxation. "For taking away our charters" was
one of the grievances of the American colonies against the
King of Great Britain.
The corporations are deprived of their property without
due process of law.
No justification for this tax is to be derived from any
analogy to state corporation taxes. The relation of the
States to corporations is different from the relation of the
Federal Government to state corporations. A State grants
a corporate charter, and it may impose on that charter
such conditions, whether'in the form of taxes or otherwise,
as it sees fit.
Congress, in classifying corporations as the objects of a
special corporation tax, assumes that apart from the reasons why a State may so classify them, there is some other
basis for classification. There is none, however, and every
feature of business peculiar to corporations is an incident
inherent in the franchise granted and exempt from Federal
taxation. Kansas Pac. R. R. Co. v. Atchison, Topeka &
Santa Fe R. R. Co., 112 U. S. 414; McKinley v. Wheeler,
130 U. S.630.
For Congress to classify corporations as the objects of a
special and discriminating tax, whether the burdens are
light, oppressive or wholly confiscatory, is utterly arbitrary. San Bernardino County v. Southern Pac. R. R. Co.,
118 U. S. 417.
Due process of law is a process which accords with those
immutable pririciples of justice which inhere in the very
idea of free government. Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S.366,
389; Leeper v, Texas, 139 U. S.462, 468; Columbia Bank
v.'Okely, 4 Wheat. 235, 244; Twining v. New Jersey, 211
U. S.78, 101.
Congress must conform to these principles in the passage
of every law.

Murray's Lessee v. Hoboken Land & Im-

provement Co., 18 How. 272; Sinking Fund Cases, 99 U. S.
700, 718.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellant in No. 407.

220 U. S.

The arbitrary action of Congress in placing these unprecedented and oppressive burdens on the defendant corporations and wholly exempting their business competitor
from every one of them is not due process of law. Ballard
v. Hunter, 204 U. S. 241; Magoun v. Illinois Trust Co., 170
U. S. 283; Duncan v. Missouri, 152 U. S. 377; Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150.
It is of no importance that the Fifth Amendment to the
'Constitution contains no specific clause as to the equal
protection of the laws. Congress cannot from such omission claim the right to enact laws which are unjust, unequal, oppressive and arbitrary.
The Fourteenth Amendment is but declaratory of the
law as it had long existed. See Historical Remarks on
Taxation of Free States, 1778, p. 39; Chicago, B. & Q.
R. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, 241; Cotting v. Kansas
City Stock Yards, 183 U. S. 79; Connolly v. Union Sewer
Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540.
The corporation tax declares a discrimination "clear
and hostile" upon companies which owe the General Government no allegiance and no debt for their creation. It
is a discrimination "unusual" to the extent of being without a precedent in the history of the country and is therefore wholly "unknown." It does not proceed within reasonable limits for in the reason of things there is no basis
for the discrimination; and as for being within "general
usage," the fact that it was hitherto unknown condemns
it upon that ground. American Sugar Refining Co. v.
Louisiana, 179 U. S. 89, 92; Billings v. Illinois, 188 U. S.
97, 101; Southern Ry. Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400.
The act is unconstitutional because it takes property
for public use without just compensation, not only as to
the one per cent tax, but also as to the peculiar requirement of subd. 6 of the law, which says that the returns
"shall constitute public records and ,be open to inspection
as such."

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

Argument for Appellants in Nos. 409 and 410.

This publicity is not required for the purpose of imposing the tax. It can in no way enhance the public revenues.
It is arbitrary, visitatorial and disciplinary in its nature.
It is not, in any sense, for revenue purposes. A corpora-.
tion is protected under the Fifth Amendment against, the
taking of its property without just compensation. Monongahela Nav. Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 312; Hale
v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43, 76.
The corporation tax is a direct tax on the franchise and
therefore unconstitutional because not apportioned. Pol..
lock v. Farmers' L. & T. Co., 157 U. S. 429; S. C., 158 U. S.
601; Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S. 509, 520; Californiav. Cent.
Pac.R. R. Co., 127 U. S. 1, 41. It is in the nature of a poll
tax. Beale on Foreign Cbrp., § 508, p. 665; Lumberville
Delaware Bridge Co. v. Assessors, 55 N. J. Law, 529, 537.
Any tax when placed on the right of the man. or oft the
corporation to live is a capitation tax and as direct as any
tax can be.
The inclusion of joint stock companies within the terms
of the statute does not affect the argument on the previous
points. Liverpool v. Massachusetts, 10 Wall. 566; Attorney
General v. Mercantile Marine Ins. Co., 121 Massachusetts,
524; Platt v. Wemple, 117 N. Y. 136.
Mr. Richard V. Lindabury, with whom Mr Charles W.
Pierson and Mr. Robert Lynn Cox were on the brief, for
appellants in Nos. 409 and 410:
The tax is riot an excise tax upon business or occupation, but is either a corporate franchise tax, or an income
tax; it is imposed only on artificial persons; it is measured
by a percentage of net income, not from business carried
on, but from all sources. No kind or kinds of business are
specified but the tax extends to income from business of
exporting, and.to income from business done outside the
jurisdiction. The nature of the tax does not depend on
what Congress has seen fit to label it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellants in Nos. 409 and 410.

220 U. S.

If the tax be construed as a franchise tax, it constitutes,
so far as state corporations are concerned, an interference
with sovereign powers and functions of the States not
surrendered to the General Government and expressly reserved to the States by the Tenth Amendment.
The fact that the tax is laid on joint stock companies
as well as on corporations does not necessarily indicate
that it is not a franchise tax.
The right to grant corporate charters for ordinary business purposes is an attribute of sovereignty belonging to
the States, not to the General Government. As to implied
limitations on Federal power of taxation, see Californiav.
Cent. Pac. R. R. Co., 127 U. S. 1.
The true test is found in the nature of the function performed by the State in chartering the corporation, not in
the nature of the function performed by the corporation
after it is chartered; as to this see taxation of patent rights
and copyrights; as to the general limitations of taxing
power, see Railroad Co. v. Collector, 100 U. S. 595; Pacific
Ins. Co. v. Soule, 7 Wall. 433; Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8
Wall. 533; Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41. South Carolina
v. United States, 199 U. S. 437, discussed and distinguished.
The tax is an attempted encroachment by Congress on
a new field; it cannot be sustained as a tax on franchises
as property. The claim of a right in Congress to tax
franchises of state corporations is dangerous and the
practical consequences if such a claim be upheld will be
serious.
If the tax be construed as an income tax it is unconstitutional because imposed upon income from real estate and
personal property, and therefore a direct tax not apportioned among the States according to population; also because imposed upon -income from state and municipal
securities q'nd therefore a burden on the borrowing power
of the States. As these are essential and inseparable parts
of the taxing scheme, the tax must fall as a whole.

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

Argument for Appellants in Nos. 425 and 457.

The tax is non-uniform, arbitrary and unequal, and if
imposed and enforced would deprive the corporations and
joint stock associations, against which it is levied of their
property without due process of law contrary to the provisions of the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution.
The classification is arbitrary because limited to artificial persons; and because some corporations such as
fraternal benefit societies and domestic building and loan
associations are exempted.
The apportionment is arbitrary because the tax is not
limited to income from business done; and as between
corporations whose indebtedness does and does not exceed amount of their paid capital stock; also as between
domestic corporations doing business abroad and foreign
corporations.
Whatever view may be taken of the act in its other aspects, it must be held unconstitutional, so far as it imposes a tax on the franchises or business of state railroads
or other public service corporations, because an interference with. state agencies or instrumentalities.
The fact that insurance companies are specifically mentioned does not differentiate them from the other corporations subject to the tax.
Mr. John G. Johnson and Mr. Frederic Jesup Stimson,
with whom Mr. Lawrence M. Stockton and Mr. Harris
Livermore were on the brief, for appellants in Nos. 425
and 457:
It was not within the power of the States before the
Fourteenth Amendment to deprive citizens of the equal
protection of the laws. Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v, Ellis,
165 U. S. 150, 155.
The words "dud process of law" in the Fifth Amendment have therefore the full meaning and intention more
amply expressed in the Fourteenth Amendment by the
addition of the words "equal protection of the laws."

1122

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellants in No. 442.

220 U. S.

For comparison of these phrases, see Stimson's Fed.
and State Const. pp. 75,80,90; Taswell-Langmead, English
Const. Hist., 6th ed., quoting Coke, 104-107; 2 Hannis
Taylor, Eng. Const. p 3.
Words in the Federal Constitution are to be construed
and extended according to their full historical meaning
acquired at the time of its adoption. Cooley, Const. Law,
4th ed., p. 387; Mattox v. United $tates, 156 U. S. 237;
Kepner v. United States, 195 U. S. .100.
Unequal'taxation, not based upon a reasonable classification, is not "due process oflaw," and an excise tax imposed on the doing of business (save where imposed as a
charter limitation by the sovereignty creating'a corporation), like a simple property tax must apply alike to all persons and all corporations engaged in the same business. A
franchise tax may be imposed in lieu of or in addition to a
simple property tax, but where the tax is not imposed
upon the charter to do business as a corporation as such,
it must apply equally to corporations and individuals.
Mr. Richard Reid Rogers for appellants in No. 442:
The act of Congress is unconstitutional with especial
respect to the Interborough Rapid Transit Company;
inasmuch as it imposes a tax upon a public agency engaged in carrying on a municipal, and therefore,; under
the decisions of this court, a state enterprise.
A railroad chartered by the Congress of the United
States, employed to transport the mails of the. United
States, or its troops and munitions of war, and engaged
in conducting broadly an interstate commerce business,
notwithstanding the fact that its existence is due to private
initiation, and its profits are distributed to private investors, is nevertheless an agency of the Federal Govern.ment,i s0 that its right to exist and carry on its work cannot be taxed by any state government.
A municipality is but the arm of a state government;

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

Argument for Appellants in No,442.

a municipal undertaking is a public undertaking'of the
State itself, and, therefore, municipal property and municipal agencies enjoy the same protection from Federal taxation as the property and agencies of the State
of which the municipality is .a mere subdivision. People
ex rel. Interborough R. T. Co. v. Tax Commissioners, 126
App. Div. 610.
The public agencies of a State, or of a municipality of a
State, may not be taxed by the Federal Government.
Veazie Bank v. Fenno, .8 Wall. 533, 547; The Collector v.
Day, 11 Wall. 113, 125; United States v. Railroad Co., 17
Wall. 322; United States v. Louisville, 169 U. S. 249;
Mercantile Bank v. New York, 121 U. S. 138; Pollock v.
Farmers' L. & T. Co., 157 U. S.429, 584; Van Allen v.
The Assessors, 3 Wall. 573, 591; Luxton v. North River
Bridge Co., 153 U. S.525, 529; United States v. Stanford,
161 U. S.412; United States v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 91
U. S. 92; Railroad Co. v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 30; Van
Brocklin v. Tennessee, 117 U. S.151,162; Faganv. Chicago,
84 Illinois, 227, 233, 234; Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S.
41, 59; Ambrosini v. United States, 187 U. S.1, 7; United
States v. Railroad Co., 17 Wall. 322, 330; United States v.
Louisville, 169 U. S.249.
The act of Congress is unconstitutional in so far as it
attempts to impose a tax upon the franchises of foreign
corporations, or at least upon their right to carry on a
purely intrastate business-a matter over which the Federal Government has no control. The whole act, therefore, must fail, inasmuch as it cannot be assumed that
Congress intended to pass a law which would place state
corporations at a disadvantage with respect to foreign
corporations engaged in the same character of business.
License Tax Cases, '5Wall. 462, 471; Covington &c. Bridge
Co. v. Kentucky, 154 U. S.204, 210.
The tax is so unequal that by definition it is not such
an act as Congress has the delegated power to impose.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellant in No. 415.

220 U. S.

Mr. Julien T. Davies, with whom Mr. Frederic D. McKenney was on the brief, for appellant in No. 415:
The tax imposed by the Corporation Tax Law is a
direct tax upon income from real estate and personal
property, and not being apportioned among the several
States is unconstitutional.
If the tax is not upon net income, it is atax upon the
franchiseto be a corporation, and as such, void, because in
conflict with the implied limitations upon the taxing
power contained in the Constitution.
The Corporation Tax Law, if the tax falls upon "carrying on or doing business," must fail for -want of equality
and uniformity in the tax thereby imposed.
The provisions of the Corporation Tax Law with regard
to the making of returns and constituting such returns
public records are unconstitutional as requiring an unreasonable search.
The power of Congress to raise revenue for the support
of the Geheral Government, that is, its power of taxation,
and the power of 'Congress to regulate commerce with
foreign nations and among the several States, are both
derived from the same articles of the Constitution of the
United States. In their origin, they are equal and coordinate powers. The power to regulate commerce is,
however, exclusive of the power to tax concurrent. with
the powers of the several States.
The right of all persons, as well as corporations, to engage in interstate commerce is a constitutional right and
one which cannot be taken away or prohibited, although
it can be regulated by Congress.
The corporation tax is unconstitutional; as to corporations engaged in interstate commerce it is clearly a tax
on the doing of the business of interstate commerce, as it
exceeds regulation.
To engage in interstate •commerce is a constitutional
right and not a privilege; therefore Congress cannot pro-

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

Argument for Appellants in Nos. 411 and 412.

hibit the exercise of such right. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9
Wheat. 1; Gilman v. Philadelphia, 3 Wall. 713; Crutcher
v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47; Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S. 137;
Howard v. Illinois Cent. R. R. Co., 207 U. S. 463; Western
Union Tel. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1; Pullman Company
v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 56; Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168.
There is a distinction between the power to regulate
commerce between the States and the power to regulate
commerce with foreign nations and with Indian tribes.
Int. Comm. Comm. v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447; Buttfield v.
Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470; United States v. Williams, 194
U. S. 279; United States v. Ju Toy, 198 U. S. 253; Oceanic
Nay. Co. v. Stranahan, 214 U. S. 320.
Taxation is not included within the power of regulation
granted by the Constitution. The power to tax is the
power to destroy or prohibit. If interstate commerce can
be taxed at all, it can be taxed out of existence and thus
prohibited. McCray v. United States, 195 U. S. 27. The
power to regulate does not include the power to prohibit.
Miller v. Jones, 80 Alabama, 89; Bronson v. Oberlin (0.),
52 Am. Rep. 90; Ex parte Patterson (Tex.), 51 L. R. A.
654; Duckall v. New Albany, 25 Indiana, 283; McConvill
v. Jersey City, 39 N. J. Law, 38; People v. Codway, 28
N. W. Rep. 101; Mernaugh v. Orlando, 41 Florida, 433;
In re Hanck (Mich.), 38 N. W. Rep. 275; State v. DeBar,
58 Missouri, 395; Sweet v. Wabash, 41 Indiana, 7; Andrews v. State (Tenn.), 8 Am. Rep. 8; Ex pgrte Byrd (Ala.),
4 So. Rep. 397; Muhlenbrinck v. Long Branch Comrs., 42
N. J. Law, 364.
Mr. Edward Osgood Brown, with whom Mr. George Packard and Mr. Vincent J. Walsh were on the brief, submitted
for appellants in Nos. 411 and 412:
While as held in Knowlton v. Moore, Congress' may
tax even tholigh it involves the power to destroy some
business or property right of a citizen or corporation, it

126

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellants in Nos. 411 and 412. 220 U. S.

has not the power to tax and thus destroy the right of
existence of a corporation,. Such a power would be
tantamount to a power to tax the right to create such an
,existence. California v. Central Pac. R. R. Co., 127 U. S.
"'i; Collecto v. Day, 11 Wall. 113; Van Brocklin v. Tennessee, 117 U. S; 151, 178. Knowlton v. Moore and Veazie
Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, hold Dothing to the contrary..
Whatever may be said of other corporations, public
service corporations in private hands furnishing 'transportation, water, light, or "performing other public or
semi-public functions, are instrumentalities of the State
ini the strictest sense and for that reason are given the
power of eminent domain; the functions of many of them
are indeed governmental, e. g,, the functions of water
companies. Water Co. v. Fergus, 180 U. S. 624; Water
Co. v. Freeport, 180 U. S. 587; Water Co. v.Danville City,
i80 U. S.619.
The inclusion of these public service corporations is a
part of the intent under which the law was passed as an
"entire scheme of -taxation," and if it fails as to them it
must fail as a whole--under the holding in the Pollock
case.
Under the allegations of. our bill the Corporation Tax
Law is an invalid and unenforceable enactment as against
the defendant corporation in this case-The Northern
Trust Con'pany-because it is shown by those allegations
that said company is in an especial manner an agency of
the legislative and judicial departments of the government of Illinois, and in its case, therefore, the corporation tax is in a peculiar and especial sense an attempted
unconstitutional interference With an instrumentality of
'the State of Illinois in the discharge of its functions and
powers.
The Corporation Tax Law if invalid against the great
mass of corporations intended to be affected by it, cannot
be held valid as to national banks and other corporations

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

Counsel for Appellants.

created by Federal authority. A tax falling only on such
corpora*tions was not within the intention of Congress.
If it fails as to state-created corporations, therefore, it
must fail as to national banks. Pollock v. Trust Co., 158
U. S. 601; Poindexter v. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 270; Spraigue
v. Thomson, 118 U. S. 90; Warren v. Charlestown, 2 Gray,
84.
Mr. Charles H. Tyler, Mr. Owen D. Young, Mr. Burton
E. Eames and Mr. Randolph Frothingham for appellant,
in No. 443, submitted:
The defendant corporation is not within the statute, as
it applies only to such corporations as are carrying on or
doing business.
The defendant corporation is not carrying on or doing
business..
The care and attention which is given by an owner to
his property as incidental merely to the protection and
preservation of his investment, does not constitute carrying on or doing business within the meaning of this
act. Parker Mills v. Commissioners of Taxes, 23 N. Y.
242; Re Ala. & Chat. R..R. Co., 9 Blatchf. 390.
The present act is to be interpreted not by giving the
broadest possible interpretation to the words, "carrying
on or doing business" because that would lead to results.
at once unreasonable and unconstitutional.
The carrying on or doing business is not to be applied
to every activity of a corporation; and the courts have
restricted the application of the words to the principal
or primary pursuit or occupation of the company and
have not extended it to matters purely incidental. See
Marshall, Principles of Economics, 348 (London, 1891).
Mr. C. H. Williams for appellants in No. 457.'
Mr. J. B. Foraker, with whom Mr. Alton C. Dustin,

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellee in No. 410.

.
220 U. S.

Mr. D. Edward Morgan and Mr. Richard Inglis were-on
the.brief, for appellant in No. 420.
Mr. Frederic R. Coudert for appellants in Nos. 431 and
432, submitted.
Mr. Jed. L. Washburn, with whom Mr. William D.
Bailey and Mr. Oscar Mitchell were on the brief, for appellant in No. 446.
Mr. William D. Guthrie, with whom Mr. Victor Morawetz and Mr. Howard Van Sinderen Were on the brief, for
appellee in No. 410:
The argument in support of the' contention of this appellee may be divided as follows for convenience of discussion:
A tax upon income derived. from the carrying on or
doing business is an excise and not a direct tax within the
meaning of the Constitution.
Congress cannot constitutionally impose an excise tax
measured by non-taxable income.
The act of August 5, 1909, should be construed as im-:
posing an excise tax only upon income derived from the
carrying on or doing business.
The act of August 5,,1909, is not severable.
A tax upon the carrying on or doing business or upon
the net income derived from the carrying on or doing
business is an excise and not a direct tax within the meaning of the Constitution. Pacific Ins. Co. "v. Soule, 7 Wall.
433, 443; Railroad Co. v. Collector, 100 U. S. 595, 598,
Springer v. United States, 102 U. S. 586, 598; Spreckels
Sugar Refining Co. v. McClain, 192 U. S. 397, 411; South
Carolina v. United States, 199 U. S. 437, 454.
The constitutional provision that all excises shall be
uniform throughout the United States merely requireE

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

Argument for Appellee inNo. 410.

geographical uniformity. Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. .
41.
Congress may not tax United States bonds and particularly those issued under the acts of July 14, 1870, 16 Stat.
272, and January 14, 1875, 18 Stat. 296. Although. the
Constitution does not expressly prohibit the United
States from impairing the obligation of contracts, the due
process clause of the Fifth Amendment prevents any such
impairment or destruction of contract rights. Sinking
Fund Cases, 99 U. S. 700, 718; United States v. Union
Pacific Ry. Co., 160 U. S. 1, 33. Nor can such income be
indirectly taxed by means of a so-called special excise tax
upon the carrying on or doing of business by corporations,.
Pollock v. Farmers' L. & T. Co., 157 U. S. 429.
The constitutional provisions conferring upon Congress
power to impose taxes make no distinction between corporations and individuals. Indeed, corporations are'not
mentioned in the Constitution. The power to tax private
corporations organized under state laws is coextensive
with the power to tax individuals and. flows. from exactly
the same constitutional provisions as .apply to individuals.
Therefore, Congress cannot impose upon corporations, or
upon companies or associations of any class, an excise tax
that it cannot impose upon corporations and 6ther companies or associations.
The mere franchise or license to be a corporation or to
carry on business in corporate form certainly does not of
itself make a corporation a governmental instrumentality
or agency. Railroad Co. v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5, 31;
South CarolinaCase, supra, 199 U. S. 437.
The classification of corporations as a separate class by
the States has been sustained on grounds which are, at
least partly, unavailable in support of an act of Congress.
The Delaware Railroad Tax, 18 Wall. 206;-Bell's Gap R. R.
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232, 237; Home Ins. Co. v.
New York, 134 U. S. 594, 606; New York v. Roberts, 171
VOL. ccxx-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellee in No. 410.

220 U. S.

U. S. 658, 665; Florida Central &c. R. R. Co. v. Reynolds, 183 U. S. 471, 477; Berea College v. Kentucky, 211
U. S.45, 54.
Congress, however, cannot constitutionally impose an
excise tax measured by non-taxable income.
It is submitted that the underlying principle of these
decisions is that a license or occupation tax cannot be
imposed by a State upon foreign corporations, measured
by the amount of non-taxable property or the amount of
non-taxable interstate business of the corporation, and
that any such attempt would establish an unconstitutional
basis of classification for purposes of taxation; in other
words, that a tax cannot be measured by non-taxable
property or income. If we apply the same principle to the
case at bar, it must follow that Congress. cannot directly
or indirectly measure an excise tax on corporations or
individuals by property or income which is not taxable
.at all or only taxable by a direct and apportioned tax.
Spreckels Sugar Refining Co. v. McClain, 192 U. S. 397,
410, 417; Galveston, Harrisburg &c. Ry. Co. v. State of
Texas, 210 U. S. 217.; Western Union Tel. Co. v. Kansas,
216 U. S.1; Southern Ry. Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S.400, 416;
Home Savings Bank v. Des Moines, 205 U. S. 503, 519;
Louisville &c. Ferry Co. v. Kentucky, 188 U. S.385, 398;
State Tonnage Tax Cases, 12 Wall. 204, 217.
The corporation tax should be construed as imposing
an excise tax only upon income derived from the carrying
on or doing business. If an act of Congress be reasonably susceptible of a construction that will avoid a conflict with the Constitution of the United States, such construction should be adopted. United States v. Delaware &
Hudson Co., 213 U. S.366, 407.
The act is susceptible of a construction which may
render the act constitutional and avoid the grave and
doubtful constitutional questions involved in the contention of the Government or suggested in the numerous

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

Argument for Appellee in No. 410.

briefs filed on behalf of the various appellants. According to this construction, as the act purports to impose
"a special excise with respect. to the carrying on or doing
business," the tax is to be assessed upon net income received "from all sources" in carrying on or doing business, but is not to be assessed upon income derived directly from United States, state, county or municipal
securities, or from real and personal property not used or
employed in business. Thus construed, the act imposes
an excise tax upon business or occupation and not in any
respect a direct tax on property or.on non-taxable securities, and thereby any conflict with express or implied
is avoided.
constitutional limitations
Congress has acted upon the decisions of this court in
the Income Tax Cases, and has proposed for adoption by
the several States a Sixteenth Article of Amendment to
the Constitution, to read as follows. "Article 16. The
Congress shall have power to lay and collect taxes on incomes, from whatever source derived, without apportionment among the several States and without regard to any
census or enumeration."
The Corporation Tax Law is subject to the implied
constitutional limitation that bonds issued by the Federal
and state governments are not taxable directly or indirectly by Congress. Kepner v. United States, 195 U. S.
100, 125; United States v. Nix, 189 U. S. 199, 205. The
test in each case should be whether the income had been
received as direct income from property or as income
from carrying on business. Spreckels Sugar Refining Co.
v. McClain, 192 U. S. 97, 417.
The court will undoubtedly take judicial notice that
the Sixteenth Amendment was proposed in connection
with the passage of the Tariff Law of 1909. A number of
senators and representatives were insisting upon inserting in that tariff law an income' tax similar to the tax
contained in the act of 1894, so as thereby to force a

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellee in No. 410.

220 U. S.

reconsideration of the ruling in the prior cases. It was in
order to prevent any general income tax provision in the
act of 1909 similar to the provision contained in the act
of 1894, and in order to avoid the unseemly position of the
Congress declining to accept the authoritative decision of
this court, that a compromise was entered into under
which it was agreed to pass a joint resolution to amend
the Constitution of the United States as suggested by
this court in the opinion in the Pollock Case, 158 U. S.
635, so as to vest in Congress power to lay direct income
taxes without apportionment. It would be strange, indeed, if in view of this indisputable history, it should now
be held that after all it was the deliberate intention of
Congress, in and by § 38 of the act of 1909, to enact a
provision which, as to corporations, joint stock associations and insurance companies; should be identical in
substance and effect with the income tax provision contained in the act of August 15, 1894, and thus plainly in
conflict with the ruling in the Income Tax Cases of 1895.
The separate provision taxing the income of foreign
corporations derived from "capital invested within the
United States" is clearly unconstitutional within the
ruling in the Pollock Case. On such capital invested in real
or personal property the tax is direct and not an excise.
But, so far as we have been infbrmed, no foreign corporation is now before the court challenging the constitutionality of the act because, as to it, the tax is partly an
excise tax on business transacted and partly a direct tax
on capital invested.
So also as to the taxation of such corporations as are engaged in the export business or in transacting business in
foreign countries. Assuming that income derived fromexporting or income derived from carrying on or doing
business in foreign countries is not within the taxing power
of Congress under the rules declared in such cases as
Railroad Co. v. Jackson, 7 Wall. 262; Slate Tax on Foreign-

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.220 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

Held Bonds, 15 Wall. 300; Pullman's Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 181; Louisville &c. Ferry Co. v. Kentucky,
188 U. S. 385; Old Dominion Steamship Co. v. Virginia,
198 U. S. 299; Delaware, L.. &c. R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania,
198 U. S. 341; Union Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 294; Selliger .v. Kentucky, 213 U. S. 200;
Western Union Tel. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1, it may be
ruled that it does not lie with those not so engaged to
challenge the constitutiofiality of the act of Congress in
so far as it affects other corporations not before the court.
The provision in the act of 1909 excluding income received as dividends upon stock of other corporations., etc.,
does not imply that no other deductions were intended by'
Congress. People ex rel. Vandervoort Ry. Co. v. Glynn,
194 N. Y. 387, 389.
Mr. James L. Quackenbush for appellees in No. 442,
submitted.
Mr. Charles A. Snow and Mr. Joseph H. Knight for
appellees in No. 425 submitted.
The Solicitor General for the United States on the reargument; Mr. Solicitor General Bowers on the original
argument, by leave of the Court in support of the constitutionality of the Corporation Tax Law:
Appellants have presented against this tax every possible objection that could be made to any form of taxation
under the Constitution.
It is said to be a tax upon exports, and void because
beyond the power of Congress to lay in any manner; a
direct tax and void because not apportioned among the
States according to 'population; an excise tax and void
because not uniform throughout the United States; a tax
upon corporate franchises, and void as an impairment of
the sovereignty of the States; a tax upon business, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for the United States.

220 U. S.

void as discriminating against corporations; not a tax at
all, but a mere confiscation of private property for puablic
use; void because in its methods of assessment and collection it involves unreasonable search and seizure and selfincrimination; and, finally, that it was not constitutionally
enacted because it is a revenue measure and origin~ated in
the Senate.
The first ground of objection may be dismissed with the
suggestion that none of the complainants is engaged ii
the business of exportation, and the last is not tenable
because the bill originated in the House, and the Senate
in substituting the corporation tax for another tax provided for in the original bill did no more than exercise its
undoubted power of amendment.
In determining whether a tax is direct or indirect
within the meaning of the Constitution, its incidence is
not to be considered. The question is not an economic
one, but legal, and we must look for the answer to the
legislative and judicial history of the country. Owensboro
Bank v. Owensboro, 173 U. S. 664; Home Savings Bank v.
Des Moines, 205 U. S. 503.
The nature of the tax is determined by its subjectmatter-that upon which it is laid.
The act itself discloses this. The tax is upon the business done by the corporations.
The remainder of the act deals with the iate of the tax,
its measure, exemptions, assessment, collection, etc.
Rufus King asked in the Federal Convention, "What
is the precise meaning of direct taxation?" No one then
answered -the question. Taxes on capitation and land
were, however, certainly meant. The intention even
here was to tax in some measure, according to ability to
pay. So slaves were t6 be counted as three-fifths of their
real number, and the land tax was to be according to
population, because land values depended largely upon
density of population.

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

. Argument for the United States.

When the carriage tax was imposed in 1794 members of
the Convention expressed their view of what was direct
taxation.
In the administration which proposed the tax were
three members of the Convention,-Washington, Hamilton and Randolph; in the House which enacted it were
Baldwin, Dayton, Fitzsimmons and Madison, and in the
Senate were Ellsworth, King, Morris and Martin. Of
these, only Madison opposed the tax.
In the Hylton Case, in which the tax was challenged, of
the justices participating in the decision Wilson and
Paterson were members of the Federal Convention and
Iredell was a member of the North Carolina Convention
which ratified the Constitution.
The decision, unanimous for the tax, was acquiesced in
by the country as a proper construction of the Constitution, and later Madison himself as President approved of
a like tax.
The carriage tax was certainly a tax upon property, and
in a sense direct, for it must be paid by the owner of the
carriage on which it fell, but because it was laid not upon
property generally, and only upon a peculiar species of
property, it was held to be an excise. Great stress was
laid by the court upon the fact that it was incapable of
just apportionment according to population, as.indicating
that it was not such a tax as was intended to be apportioned.
During the war of 1812 and during the Civil War taxes
were levied upon different species of property, upon various occupations, and upon different business pursuits of
individuals and corporations, and every such tax was laid
as an excise. And these could none of them be justified
as war taxes, for the taxing power of the Government is
the same in war and peace.
After the war some of these taxes were assailed as unconstitutional. Pacific Ins. Co. v. Soule, 7 Wall. 433;

:
.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for the United States.

220 U. S.

Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533; Scholey v. Rew, 23
Wall. 331; Railroad Co. v. Collector, 100 U. S. 595; Springer
v. United States, 102 U. S. 586.
In these cases were involved a tax upon dividends, a tax
upon state bank notes,. a succession tax, and a general
income tax. They were all assailed as direct and as void
because unapportioned; but they were all sustained.
Railroad Co. v. Collector, supra, is directly in point, as
the tax was upon the net income of corporations. It is
criticised as not having been well considered, because the
amount involved was small, but it was followed in Railroad Co. v. United States, 101 U. S. 543; Bailey v. Railroad
Co., 106 U. S. 109; United-States v. Erie Ry. Co., 106 U. S.
327; M. & C. R. R. Co. v. United States, 108 U. S. 228;
Little Miami v. United States, 108 U. S. 277.
In some of these cases the amounts involved were large.
A decision of this court six times made upon the same
question certainly expresses its deliberate judgment.
For one hundred years, from 1794 to 1894, there was
entire accord between the executive, legislative and
judicial departments of the Government as to what was a
direct tax; and during that time a tax upon business,
however measured, was always held to be not a direct tax
but an excise. It is said the Income Tax Case, 157 U. S.
429; S. C., 158 U. S. 601, has settled a different rile.
The tax there was upon income from all sources, and
by a divided court was held to be direct in so far and only
in so far as it fell upon income from property. That a tax
upon "gains or profits from business, privileges or employments" is an excise was distinctly recognized by the
majority opinion, and every previous case .bearing upon
the question, except that of Springer v. United States,
supra, was distinguished and in effect approved.
The cases decided by the court since deal with the
Income Tax Case as thus limited in its scope. Nicol v.
Ames, 173 U. S. 5097 Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41;

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

Plummer v.Color, 178 U. S. 115; Murdock v. Ward, 178
U. S. 139; United States v. Perkins, 163 U. S. 625; Snyder
v. Bettman, 190 U. S. 249; Pattonv. Brady, 184 U. S. 608;
Thomas v. United States, 192 U. S. 363; Spreckels Sugar
Refining Co. v. McClain, 192 U. S. 397.
In these cases the taxes were upon sales of merchandise
on boards of trade, measured by the value of the property,
upon successions, measured by their value, upon tobacco,
upon the sale of stocks, measured by the par value of the
stocks, and upon business, measured by the income of the
business. In each of them the contention was made that
the tax was a direct tax upon property, and the Income
Tax Case was cited to support the contention; but in every
case the tax was held to be not upon the property but
upon the peculiar right, privilege or facility enjoyed or
used, or upon the business involved, and valid as an
excise. The cases preceding the Income Tax Case, saving
Springer v. United States, were again and again cited and
approved.
Every previous decision of this court, not excepting
that in the Income Tax Case, supports the view of the
Government that this tax upon the business of corporations is not a direct tax, and so need not be apportioned.
That the tax reaches income from all sources does not
change its nature, for that relates only to the measure of
the tax. The subject of the tax being within the power
of Congress, the measure of it is largely a matter for its
discretion. United States v. Singer, 15 Wall. 111.
Besides, the property held by a corporation, whether
actively employed in its principal business or not, does
serve as an aid to that business, adding to its financial
strength and credit. Corporations, except those purely
public, and eleemosynary institutions, are organized for
business purposes. The law does not recognize such a
thing as a corporation being "a chartered gentleman of
leisure." And it is singular that if the real estate com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for the United States.

220 U. S.

panies, which claim immunity upon the ground that they
do nothing, but are simply incorporated proprietors of
great business buildings, are not engaged in business,
they should yet complain of the tax as discriminating
against them and in favor of individual and partnership
competitors. The degree of the activity of the corporation can make no difference. Doing business at all, or of
any kind, the company is subject to the tax, and in every
case to the same measure, that is, its entire net income
determined as provided by the law.
As an excise the tax is uniform in the constitutional
sense, because the same throughout the United States,
and no more is required. Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S.
41.
The exemptions do not invalidate it. The legislature
has a discretion as to these and especially where, as here,
the result is to lay the tax as every tax should be-in, the
measure of the ability to bear it.
The tax is not upon the agencies and instrumentalities
of the state governments.
Public corporations are not sought to be taxed. Corporate privileges for the conduct of business, held and used
for purposes of private gain, do not clothe the possessors
of them with the attributes of state sovereignty.
The Stone Tracy Co. and the firm of Tuxbury & Co.,
referred to in brief of appellant Flint, each conduct a general merchandise business at Windsor, Vermont.
The business in each case is private. It is no more a
public function when conducted. by a corporation than
when conducted by a partnership. If the business of the
corporation is the exercise of sovereignty it cannot be
taxed even though like .business conducted by individuals
is taxed.
The State taxes the business and property of its private
corporations and the taxing power of the Nation is as
broad in scope as that of the State. McCulloch v. Mary-

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

land, 4 Wheat. 316; Lane County v. Oregon, 7 Wall. 71;
Railroad Co. v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5.
The power of the State to grant franchises is not impaired. For its grant the State may demand a price,
either present payment in full, or periodical payments
running through the life of the grant. So it may dispose
of land or other property. In the price obtained for its
grant thd Nation may not share, but the franchise, when
granted, or the property, when conveyed and held in
private ownership, may be taxed by State'and Nation as
anything else of value, or having the attributes of property, may be. Memphis &c. Co. v. Shelby Co., 109 U. S.
398; Metropolitan &c. Ry. Co. v. New York Tax Commissioners, 199 U. S. 1; St. Louis v. United Railways Co., 210
U. S. 266.
The question here is not how a tax may be laid upon
corporate franchises or corporate business but whether it
may be laid at all.
The right of the Government to tax state corporations
is clearly implied in McCulloch v. Maryland,'supra,and is
clearly asserted in Veazie Bank v. Fenno, supra. And
also in Scholey v. Rew; Railroad Co. v. Collector; Plummer
v. Coler, supra.
The doctrine of these and other cases which might be
cited is after all nothing more than that whatever has
pecuniary value-intangible as well as tangible property-is a subject of taxation.
That corporate powers and privileges have pecuniary
value is attested by the continually growing extent of
their use.
When the Federal Convention was in session there were
but six corporations doing business in the United States.
Two hundred sixty-two thousand four hundred ninety
corporations made returns under the Corporation Tax Law.
They had a capital stock of $52,371,626,752, bonded and
other debt of $31,333,952,696, and a net income-upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for the United States.

220 U. S.

stock-of $3,125,481,101. If this capitalization is substantial they have absorbed the major part of the taxable
wealth of the country.
That the business of the corporation is affected with a
public interest will not exempt it from taxation. No distinction of that sort is recognized in the adjudicated cases.
Public interest brings a business within the police
power, but does not place it beyond the taxing power of the
Government.
The policy of Government changes as to the exercise of
police power over a business. One generation may regulate a business and another leave it free. The taxing power
with respect to it remains the same.
A State may itself assume the conduct of a business, as
South Carolina has done with respect to the liquor traffic,
but that does not withdraw it from reach of the taxing
power of the Government. South Carolina v. United
States, 199 U. S. 437.
So the business of supplying water, light, power, and
conducting transportation is just as much subject to
taxation when carried on by quasi-public corporations as
it was in earlier days when carried on in crude, simple
ways by private individuals.
If by putting upon a business the stamp of public interest, a State could withdraw it from the sphere of
national taxation, the General Government might be
seriously impaired in its means of revenue.
The real question presented by the corporation tax is
that of discrimination. Is the selection of corporations,
individuals and partnerships not being included, arbitrary
and unjust?
Government may tax one calling and leave another
free, and so it may and does select between different
species of property, and great freedom must be allowed in
this respect., Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S.
540.

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

We lay an excise upon liquor and tobacco and not upon
bread and meat, and there is here a purpose of discrimination, but that does not avoid the tax. We may select the
objects of taxation for various- reasons, convenience of
collection, relation to ability to pay, discouragement of
use, or whatever other reason may commend itself to the
judgment of the lawmaker.
So we discriminate between callings. We may tax the
doctor and exempt the lawyer, tax the shoemaker and
leave the tailor free. We impose an excise upon the
travelling vender and exempt the merchant with a fixed
place of business. During the Civil War we differentiated
peddlers into four classes, the first class being those who
drove a four-horse van, and the fourth those who carried
their packs upon their shoulders. We may fix such a tax
at an arbitrary sum, or we may measure it by capital, or
by the volume or the profits of the business.
Then why may we not discriminate in taxation between
the corporation and the individual? The familiar illustration of the illegality of discrimination between the brownhaired and the red-haired man, the Protestant and the
Catholic, is presented, but it is not to the purpose. We
hold all men to be created equal, and to stand as equals
before the law. In the differences of complexion and of
creed there is nothing that has the attributes of property,
nothing that makes for pecuniary gain, nothing related to
the ability to bear the burdens of government.
Corporate powers and privileges are not like complexion and creed. They do have the attributes of property, they do make for gain, they do have relation to the
ability to bear the burdens of government. And so they
may be taxed as any other species of property, and a
business conducted with their aid may be subjected to an
excise when the same business conducted without their
aid is left free.
In the methods provided for the assessment and collec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

tion of the tax there is no invasion of any constitutional
right. Under the laws of every State in the Union individuals must make returns of their possessions. The
taxgatherer may invade any household, and list its contents even to the humble utensils of the kitchen. The
exercise of the taxing power is necessarily inquisitorial as
to method, and must be so long as its demands are met
with resentment and evasion. The law in that respect,
and especially as amended, provides for nothing more
than is reasonably necessary for the collection of the tax,
.and as to what is thus necessary the legislature must
determine, and what it prescribes must be accepted unless
it involves a clear violation of rights guaranteed by the
Constitution. That the returns may become public is noobjection to the requirement of them. The tax returns
of individuals under state laws are public records and
whosoever will may -inspect them. Publicity in every
relation of the citizen to the Government is essential to
the proper conduct of Government, and no evils may be
fairly apprehended from publicity in every detail of tax
assessment and collection comparable with those which
would surely result from secrecy.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
These cases involve the constitutional validity of § 38
of the act of Congress approved August 5, 1909, known
as "The Corporation Tax" law. 36 Stat. c. 6, 11, 112117.
It is contended in the first place that this section of the
act is unconstitutional, because it is a revenue measure,
and origirated in the Senate in violation of § 7 of Article I
of the Constitution, providing that "all bills for. the raising of revenue shall originate in the House of Representatives, but the Senate may propose or concur with
amendments as on other bills." The history of the act

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

is contained- in the Government's brief, and is accepted as
correct, no objection being made to its accuracy.
This statement shows that the tariff bill, of which the
section under consideration is a part, originated in the
House of Representatives and was 'there a general bill for
the collection of revenue. As originally introduced, it
contained a plan of inheritance taxation. In the Senate
the proposed tax was removed from the bill, and the corporation tax, in a measure, substituted therefor. The bill
having properly originated in the House, we perceive no
reason in the constitutional provision relied upon why it
may not be amended in the Senate in the, manner which it
was in this case. The amendment was germane to the
subject-matter of the bill and not beyond the power of the
Senate to propose. In thus deciding we do not wish to be
regarded as holding that the journals of the House and
Senate may be examined to invalidate an act which has
been passed and signed by the presiding officers of the
House and Senate and approved by the President and duly
deposited with the State Department. Field v. Clark,
143 U. S. 649; Harwood v. Wentworth, 162 U. S. 547;
Twin City Bank v. Nebeker, 167 U. S.196.
In order to have in mind some of the more salient features of the statute with a view to its interpretation, a part
of the first paragraph is here set out, as follows (36 Stat.
11, 112, c. 6):
"SEc. 38. That every corporation, joint stock company or association organized for profit and having a
capital stock represented by shares, and every insurance
company now or hereafter organized under the laws of the
United States or of any State or Territory of the United
States or under the acts of Congress applicable to Alaska
or the District of Columbia, or now or hereafter organized
under the laws of any foreign country and engaged in
business in any State or Territory of the United States or
in Alaska or in the District of Columbia, shall be subject

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

to pay annually a special excise tax with respect to the
carrying on or doing business by such corporation, joint
stock company or association or insurance company
equivalent to one per centum upon the entire net income
over and above five thousand dollars received by it from
all sources during such year, exclusive of amounts received by it as dividends upon stock of other corporations,
joint stock companies or associations or insurance companies subject to the tax hereby imposed; or if organized
under the laws of any foreign country, upon the amount
of net income over and above five thousand dollars received by it from b~isiness transacted and capital invested
within the United States and its Territories, Alaska and
the District of Columbia, during such year, exclusive of
amounts so received by it as dividends upon stock of other
corporations, joint stock companies or associations or insurance companies subject to the tax hereby imposed."
A reading of this portion of the statute shows the purpose and design of Congress in its enactment and the
subject-matter of its operation. It is at once apparent
that its terms embrace corporations and joint stock companies or associations which are organized for profit, and
have a capital stock represented by shares. Such joint'
stock companies, while differing somewhat from corporations, have many of their attributes and enjoy many of
their privileges. To these are added insurance companies,
and they, as corporations, joint stock companies or associations, must be such as are now or hereafter organized
under the laws of the United States or of any State or
Territory of the United States, or under the acts of Congress applicable to Alaska and the District of Columbia.
Each and all of these, the statute declares, shall be subject
to pay annually a special excise tax with respect to the
carrying on and doing business by such corporation, joint
stock company or association, or insurance company. The
tax is to be equivalent to one per cent of the entire net

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

.145

Opinion of the Court.

income over and above $5,000 received by such corporation or company from all sources during the year, excluding, however, amounts received by them as dividends
upon stock of other corporations, joint stock companies or
associations, or insurance companies, subject to the tax
imposed by the statute. Similar companies organized
under the laws of any foreign country and engaged in
business in any State or Territory of the United States, or
in Alaska or the District of Columbia, are required to pay
the tax upon the net income over and above $5,000 received by them from business transacted and capital invested within the United States, the Territories, Alaska
and the District of Columbia, during each year, with the
like exclusion as to amounts received by them as dividends upon stock of other corporations, joint stock companies or associations, or insurance companies, subject to
the tax imposed.
While the mere declaration contained in a statute that,
it shall be regarded as a tax of a particular character does
not make it such if it is apparent that it cannot be so
designated consistently with the meaning and effect of the
act, nevertheless the declaration of the lawmaking power
is entitled to much weight, and.in this statute the intention
is expressly declared to impose a special excise tax with respect to the carrying on or doing business by such corporation, joint stock company or association, or insurance company. It is therefore apparent, giving all the words of the
statute effect, that the tax is imposed not upon the franchises of the corporation irrespective of their use in business, nor upon the property of the corporation, but upon
the doing of corporate or insurance business and with respect to the carrying on thereof, in a sum equivalent to
one per centum upon the entire net income over and above
$5,000 received from all sources during the year; that is,
when imposed in this manner it is a tax upon the doing of
business with the advantages which inhere in the. peculVOL.. Ccxx-10

.146

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

iarities of corporate or joint stock organizations of the character described. As the latter organizations share many
benefits of corporate organization it may be described
generally as a tax upon the doing of business in a corporate
capacity. In the case of the insurance companies the tax
is imposed upon the transaction of such business by companies organized under the laws of the United States or
any State or Territory, as heretofore stated.
This tax, it is expressly stated, is to be equivalent to one
per centum of the entire net income over and above
$5,000 received from all sources during the year-this is
the measure of the tax explicitly adopted by the statute.
The income is not limited to such as is received from
property used in the business, strictly speaking, but is
expressly declared to be upon the entire net income above
$5,000 from all sources, excluding the amounts received as
dividends on stock in other corporations, joint stock companies or associations, or insurance companies also subject
to the tax. In other words, the tax is imposed upon the
doing of business of the character described, and the
measure of the tax is to be the income, with the deduction
stated, received not only from property used in business,
but from every source. This view of the measure of the
tax is strengthened when we note that as to organizations
under the laws of foreign countries the amount of net
income over and -above $5,000 includes that received
from business transacted and capital invested in the
United States, the Territories, Alaska and the, District of
Columbia.
It is further strengthened when the subsequent sections
are considered as to deductions in ascertaining net income and requiring returns from those subject to the act.
Under the second paragraph the net income is to be ascertained by certain deductions from the gross amount of
income received within the year "from all sources;" and
the return to be made to the collector of internal revenue

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

under the third section is required to show the gross
amount of the income received during the year "from all
sources." The evident purpose is to secure a return of the
entire income, with certain allowances and deductions
which do not suggest a restriction to income derived from
property actively engaged in the business. This interpretation of the act, as resting upon the doing of business,
is sustained by the reasoning in Spreckels Sugar Refining
Co. v. McClain, 192 U. S. 397, in which a special tax
measured by the gross receipts of the business of refining
oil and sugar was sustained as an excise in respect to the
carrying on or doing of such business.
Having thus interpreted the statute in conformity, as
we believe, with the inteition of Congress in passing it,
we proceed to consider whether, as thus construed, the
statute is constitutional.
It is contended that it is not, certainly so far as the tax
is measured by the income of bonds non-taxable under
Federal statutes, and of municipal and state bonds beyond
the Federal power of taxation. And so of real and personal estates, because as to such estates the tax is direct,
and required to be apportioned according to population
among the States. It is insisted that such must be the
holding unless this court is prepared to reverse the income
tax cases decided under the act of 1894. Pollock v.
Farmers'Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S.429; S. C., 158 U. S.
601.
The applicable provisions of the- Constitution of the
United States in this connection are found in Art. I, § 8,
cl. 1, and in Art. I, § 2, cl. 3, and Art. I, § 9, cl. 4.• They
are respectively:
"The Congress shall have power' to lay and collect
taxes, duties, imposts, and excises, to pay the debts and
provide for the common defense and general welfare of
the United States; but all duties, imposts and excises shall

be uniform throughout the United States."

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

"Representatives and direct taxes shall be apportioned
among the several States which may be included within
this Union, according to their respective numbers."
"No capitation or other direct tax shall be laid, unless
in proportion to the census or enumeration hereinbefore
directed to be taken."
It was under the latter requirement as to apportionment
of direct taxes according to population that this court in
'the Pollock Case held the statute of 1894 to be unconstitutional. Upon the rehearing of the case Mr. Chief Justice Fuller, who spoke for the court, summarizing the
effect of the decision, said:
"We have considered the act only in respect of the tax
on income derived from real estate, and from invested
personal property, and have not commented on so much
of it as bears on gains or profits from business, privileges,
or employments, in view of the instances in which taxation
on business, privileges, or employments has assumed the
guise of, an excise tax and been sustained as such." 158
U. S. 635.
And as to excise taxes, the Chief Justice said:
"We do not mean to say that an act laying by apportionment a direct tax on all real estate or personal property, or the income thereof, might not also lay excise
taxes on business, privileges, employments and vocations
(p. 637)."
The Pollock Case was before this court in Knowlton v.
Moore, 178 U. S. 41, 80. In that case this court sustained
an excise tax upon. the transmission of property by inheritance. It was contended there, as here, that the case
was ruled by the Pollock Case, and of that case this court,
speaking by the present Chief Justice, said:
"The issue presented in the Pollock Case was whether an
income tax was direct within the meaning of the Constitution. The contentions which the case involved were thus
presented. On the one hand, it was argued that only

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

capitation taxes and taxes on land as such were direct,
within the meaning of the Constitution, considered as a
matter of first impression, and that previous adj ldications
had construed the Constitution as having that import.
On the other hand, it was asserted that, in principle, direct
taxes, in the constitutional sense, embraced not only taxes
on land and capitation taxes, but all burdens laid on real
or personal property because of its ownership, which were
equivalent to a direct tax on such property, and it was
affirmed that the previous adjudications of this court had
settled nothing to the contrary.
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"Undoubtedly, i~n the course of the opinion in the Pollock Case it was said that if a tax was direct within the constitutional sense the mere erroneous qualification of it as
an excise or duty would not take it out of the constitutional requirement as to apportionment. But this lahguage related to the subject-matter under consideration,
and was but a statement that a tax which was in itself
direct, because imposed upon property'solely by reason of
its ownership, could not be changed by affixing to it thequalifications of excise or duty. Here we are asked to
decide that a tax is a direct tax on property which has at
all times been considered as the antithesis of such a tax;
that is, has ever been treated as a duty or excise, because
of the particular occasion which gives rise to its levy.
*

*

*

**

*

*

,

*

'"Considefing 'that the constitutional rule of apportionment.had its origin in the purpose to prevent taxes on persons solely because of their general ownership of property
from being levied by any other rule than that of apportionment, two things were decided by the court: First, that
no sound distinction existed between a tax levied on a person solely becauseof his general ownership of real property, and the same tax imposed solely because of his general ownership of personal property. Secondly, that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

tax on the income derived from such property, real or
personal, was the legal equivalent of a direct tax on the
property from which said income was derived, and hence
must be apportioned. These conclusions, however, lend
no 'support to the contention that it was decided that
duties, imposts and excises, which are not- the essential
equivalent of a tax on property generally, real or personal,
solely because of its ownership, must be converted into direct taxes, because it is conceived that it would be demonstrated by a close analysis that they could not be shifted
from the person upon whom they first fall."
The same view was taken of the Pollock Case in the subsequent case of Spreckels Sugar Refining Co. v. McClain,
192 U. S. 397.
The act now under consideration does not impose direct
taxation upon property solely because of its ownership,
but the tax is within the class which Congress is authorized
to lay and collect under Art. I, § 8, cl. 1 of the Constitution, and described generally as taxes, duties, imposts and
.excises,
upon which the limitation is that they shall
be
Suhiform throughout the United States.
Within the category of indirect taxation, as we shall
have further occasion to show, is embraced a tax upon

business done in a corporate capacity, which is the subjectmatter of the tax imposed in the act under consideration.
The Pollock Case construed the tax there levied as direct,
because it was imposed upon property simply because of
its ownership. In the present case the tax is not payable
unless there be a carrying on or doing of business in the
designated capacity, and this is made the occasion for the
tax, measured by the standard prescribed. The differencebetween the acts is not merely nominal, but rests upon
substantial differences between the mere ownership of
property and the actual doing of business in a certain way.
It is-unnecessary to enter upqn an extended consideration of the technical meaning of the term "excise." It has

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

151

Opinion of the Court.

been the subject-matter of considerable discussion-the
terms duties, imposts and excises are generally treated as
embracing the indirect forms of taxation-contemplated by
the Constitution. As Mr. Chief Justice Fuller said in the
Pollock Case, 157 U. S. 557:

"Although there have been from time to time intimations that there might be some tax which was not a direct
tax nor included under the words 'duties, imposts and
excises,' such a tax for more than one hundred years of
national existence has as yet remained undiscovered, notwithstanding the stress of particular circumstances has
invited thorough investigation into sources of revenue."

And in the same connection the late Chief Justice, delivering the opinion of the dourt in Thomas v. United States,
192 U. S. 363, in speaking of the words duties, imposts and
excises, said:
"We think that they were used comprehensively to
cover customs and excise duties imposed on importation,.
consumption, manufacture and sale of certain commodities, privileges, particular business transactions; Vocations,
occupations and the like."
Duties and imposts are terms commonly applied to
levies made by governments, on the importation or exportation of commodities.

Excises are "taxes laid upon

the manufacture, sale or consumption of commodities
within the country, upon licenses to pursue certain occupations, and upon corporate privileges." Cooley, Const.

Lim., 7th ed., 680.
The tax under consideration, as we have construed the
statute, may be described as an excise upon the particular
privilege of doing business in a corporate capacity, i. e.,
with the advantages which arise from corporate or quasicorporate organization; or,, when applied to insurance
companies, for doing the business of such dompanies. As
was said in the Thomas Case, 192 U. S. 363 supra, the
requirement to pay such taxes involves the exercise of

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

privileges, and the element of absolute and unavoidable
demand is lacking. If business is not done in the manner
described in the statute, no tax is payable.
If we are correct in holding that this is an excise tax,
there is nothing in the Constitution requiring such taxes
to be apportioned according to population. Pacific Ins.
Co. v. Soule, 7 Wall. 433; Springer v. United States, 102
U. S. 586; Spreckels Sugar Refining Co. v. McClain, 192
U. S. 397.
It is next contended that the attempted taxation is void
because it levies a tax upon the exclusive right of a State
to grant corporate franchises, because it taxes franchises
which are the creation of the State in its sovereign right
and authority. This proposition is rested upon the implied limitation upon the powers of National and state
governments to take action which encroaches upon or
cripples the exercise of the exclusive power of sovereigntyin the other. It has been held in a number of cases that
the State cannot tax franchises created by the United.
States or the agencies or corporations which are created
for the purpose of carrying out governmental functions of
the United States. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wh1at.
316; Osborn v. Bank, 9 Wheat. 738; RailroadCo. v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5; California v. Central Pac. R. R. Co., 127
U. S. 1.
An examination of these cases will show that in each case
where the tax was held invalid the decision rested upon
the proposition that the corporation was created to carry
into effect powers conferred upon the Federal Government in its sovereign capacity, and the attempted taxation was an interference with the effectual exercise of such
powers.
In Osborn v. The Bank, supra, a leading case upon the
subject, whilst it was held that the Bank of the United
States was not a private corporation, but a public one,
created for national purposes, and therefore beyond the

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

taxing power of the State, Chief Justice Marshall, in delivering the opinion of the court, conceded that if the
corporation had been originated for the management of
an individual concern, with private trade and profit for
its great end and principal object, it might be taxed by
the State. Said the Chief Justice (p. 359):
"If these premises [that the corporation was one of
private character] were true, the conclusion drawn from
them would be inevitable. 'This mere private corporation,
engaged in its own business, with its own views, would
certainly be subject to the taxing power of the State, as
any individual would be; and the casual circumstance of
its being employed by the Government in the transaction
of its fiscal affairs would no more exempt its private business from the operation of that power than it would
exempt the private business of any individual employed
in the same manner."
The inquiry in this connection is: How far do the implied limitations upon the taxing power of the United
States over objects which would otherwise be legitimate
subjects of Federal taxation, withdraw them from the
reach of the Federal Government in raising revenue, because they are pursued under franchises which are the
creation of the States?
In approaching this subject we must remember that
enactments levying taxes, as other laws of the Federal
Government when acting within constitutional authority,
are the supreme law of the land. The Constitution contains only two limitations on the right of Congress to levy
excise taxes; they must be levied for the public mwlfare
and are required to be uniform throughout the United
States. As Mr. Chief Justice Chase said, speaking for the
court in License Tax Cases, 5 Wall. 462, 471: "Congress
cannot tax exports, and it must impose direct taxes by the
rule of apportionment, and indirect taxes by the rule of
uniformity. Thus limited and thus only, it reaches every

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

subject and may be exercised at discretion." The limitations to which the Chief Justice refers were the only ones
imposed .nthe Constitution upon, the taxing power.
In McCray v. United States, 195 U. S. 27, this court sustained a Federal tax on oleomargarine, artificially colored,
and held. that while the Fifth and Tenth Amendments
qualify, so far as applicable, all ,the provisions of the Constitution, nothing in those Amendments operates to take
away the power to tax conferred by the Constitution on
the Congress. In that case it was contended that the subject taxed was within the exclusive domain of the States,
and that the real purpose of Congress was not to raise
revenue, but to tax out of existence a substance not harmful of itself and one which might be lawfully manufactured
and sold; but, the only constitutional limitation which
this court conceded, in addition to the requirement of
uniformity, and that for the sake of argument only so far
.as concerned the case then under consideration, was that
Congresg is restrained from arbitrary impositions or from
exceeding its poweis in seeking to effect unwarranted ends.
The limitation of uniformity was deemed sufficient by
those who framed and adopted the Constitution. The
courts may not add others. Pattoti v. Brady, 184 U. S.
608, 622. And see United States V. Singer, 15 Wall. 111,
121; Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S.509, 545.
We must therefore enter upon the inquiry as to implied
limitations upon the exercise of the Federal authority to
tax because of the sovereignty of the States over matters
within their exclusive jurisdiction, having in View the
nature and extent of the power specifically conferred upon
Congress by the Constitution of the United States. We
must remember, too, that the revenues of the United
States, must be obtained in the same territory, from the
same people, and excise taxes must be collected from the
same activities, as are also reached by the States in order
to support their local government.

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

While the tax in this case, as we have construed the
statute, is imposed upon the exercise of the privilege of
doing business in a corporate capacity, as such business is
done under authority of state franchises, it becomes necessary to consider in this connection the right of the Federal Government to tax the activities of private corporations which arise from the exercise of franchises granted
by the State in creating and conferring powers upon such
corporations. We think it is the result of the cases heretofore decided in this court, that such business activities,
though exercised because of state-created franchises, are
not beyond the taxing power of the United States. Taxes
upon rights exercised under grants of state franchises
were sustained by this court in Railroad Co. v. Collector,
'100 U. S.595; United States v. Erie R. R. Co., 106 U. S.
327; Spreckels Sugar Refining Co. v. McClain, 192 U. S.
397.
It is true that in those cases the question does not seem
to have been directly made, but, in sustaining such taxation, the right of the Federal Government to reach such
agencies was necessarily involved. The question was
raised and decided in the case of Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8
Wall. 533. In that well-known case a tax upon the notes
of a state bank issued for circulation was sustained. Mr.
Chief Justice Chase, in the course of the opinion said:
"Is it, then, a tax on a franchise granted by a State,
which Congress, upon any principle exempting the reserved powers of the States from impairment by taxation,
must be held to have no authority to lay and collect?
"We do not say that there may not be'such a tax. It
may be admitted that the reserved rights of the States,
such as the right to pass laws, to give effect to laws through!
executive action, to administer justice through the courts,
and to •employ'all necessary agencies for legitimate purposes of state government, are not proper subjects of the
taxing power of Congress. But it cannot be admitted that

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

franchises granted by a State are necessarily exempt from
taxation; for franchises are property, often very valuable
and productive property; and when not conferred for the
purpose of giving effect to some reserved power of a State,
seem to be as properly objects of taxation as any other
property.

"But in the case before us the object of taxation is not
the franchise of the bank, but property created, or contracts made and issued under the franchise, or power to
issue bank bills. A railroad company, in the exercise of
its corporate franchises, issues freight receipts, bills of
lading, and passenger tickets; and it cannot be doubted
that the organization of railroads is quite as important to
the State as the organization of banks. ,But it will hardly
be questioned that these contracts of the company are
objects of taxation within the powers of Congress, and not
exempted by any relation to the State which granted the
charter of the railroad. And it seems difficult. to distinguish the taxation of notes .issued for circulation from
the taxation of' tliese railroad contracts. Both descriptions of contracts are means of profit to the corporations
which issue them; and both, as we think, may properly be
made conitributory to the public revenue." (pp. 547, 548)'.
It is true that the decision in the Veazie Bank Case was
also placed, in a measure, upon the authority -of the
United States to control the circulating medium of the
country, but the forceof the reasoning, which we have
quoted, has not been denied or departed from.
In Thomas v. United States, 192 U. S. 363, a Federal
tax on the transfer of corporate shares in state corporations was upheld as a tax upon business transacted in the
exercise of privileges afforded by the state laws in respect
to corporations.
.In Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S. 509, a Federal tax was sustained upon the enjoyment of privileges afforded by a
board of trade incorporated by the State of Illinois.
.

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

When the Constitution was framed the right to lay excise taxes was broadly conferred upon the Congress. At
that time very few corporations existed. If the mere fact
of state incorporation, extending now to nearly all branches
of trade and industry, could withdraw the legitimate objects of Federal taxation from the exercise of the power
conferred, the result would be to exclude the National
Government from many objects upon which indirect taxes
could be constitutionally imposed. Let it be supposed
that a group of individuals, as partners, were carrying on
a business upon which Congress concluded to lay an excise
tax. If it be true that the forming of a state corporation
would defeat this purpose, by taking the necessary steps
required by the state law to create. a corporation and
carrying on the business under rights granted by a state
statute, the Federal tax would become invalid and that
source of national revenue be destroyed, except as to the
business in the hands of -individuals or partnerships. - It
cannot be supposed that it was intended that it should be
within the power of individuals acting under state authority to thus impair and limit the exertion of authority
which may be essential to national existence.
In this connection Sauth Carolina v. United States, 199
U. S. 437, 461, is important. In that case it was held that
the agents of the state government, carrying on the business of selling liquor under state authority, were liable to.
pay the internal revenue tax imposed by the Federal Government. In the opinion previous cases in this court were
reviewed, and the rule to be deduced therefrom stated to
be that the exemption of state agencies and instrumentalities from national taxation was limited to those of a
strictly governmental character, and did not extend to
those used by the State in carrying on business of a private
character.
The cases unite in exempting from Federal taxation the
means and instrumentalities employed in carrying •on the

158

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

governmental operations of the State. The exercise of
such rights as the establishment of a judiciary, the employment of officers to administer and execute the laws and
similar governmental functions cannot be taxed by the
Federal Government. The Collector v. Day, 11 Wall.
113; United States v. RailroadCo., 17 Wall. 322; Ambrosini
v. United States, 187 U. S. 1.
But this limitation has never been extended to the exclusion of the activities of a merely private business from
the Federal taxing power, although the-power to exercise
them is derived from an act of incorporation by one of the
States. We, therefore, reach the conclusion that the mere
fact that the business taxed is done in pursuance of authority granted by a State in the creation of private
corporations does not exempt it from the exercise of
Federal authority to levy excise taxes upon such privileges.
But, it is insisted, this taxation is so unequal and arbitrary in the fact that it taxes a business when carried on
by a corporation and exempts a similar business when
carried on by a partnership or private individual as to
place it beyond the authority conferred upon Congress.
As we have seen, the only limitation upon the authority
conferred is uniformity in laying the tax, and uniformity
does not require the equal application of the tax to all
persons or corporations who may come within its operation, but is limited to geographical uniformity throughout
the United States. This subject was fully discussed and:
set at rest in Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41, supra, and
we can add nothing to the discussion contained in that
case.
In levying excise taxes the most ample authority has
been recognized from the beginning to select some and
omit other possible subjects of taxation, to select one calling and omit another, to tax one class of property and to
forbear to tax another. For examples of such taxation see

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cases in the margin, decided in this court, upholding the
power.1
Many instances might be given where this court has
sustained the right of a State to select subjects of taxation,
although as to them the Fourteenth Amendment imposes
a limitation upon state legislatures, requiring that no perv. United States, 3 Dall. 171 (a tax on carriages which the
owner kept for private use); Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S. 509 (a tax upon
sales or exchanges of boards of trade); Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S.
41 (a tax on the transmission of property from the dead to the living);
Treat v. White, 181 U. S. 264 (a tax on agreements to-sell shares of
stock, denominated "calls" by stockbrokers); Patton v. Brady, 184
U. S. 608 (a tax on tobacco manufactured for consumption, and imposed at a period intermediate the commencement of manufacture and
the final consumption of the article); Cornell v.. Coyne, 192 U. S. 418 (a
tax on "filled cheese" manufactured expressly for export); McCray v.
United States, 195 U. S. 27 (a tax on oleomargarine not artificially colored, a higher tax on oleomargarine artificially colored, and no tax
on butter artificially colored); Thomas v. United States, 192 U. S. 363
(a tax on sales of shares of stock in corporations); PacificInsurance CO.
v. Soule, 7 Wall. 433 (a tax upon the amounts insured, renewed, or
continued by insurance companies upon the gross amounts of premiums
received and assessments made by them, and also upon dividends, un-distributed sums, and incomes); Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533 (a
tax of ten per centum on the amount of the notes paid out of any state
bank, or state banking association); Scholey v. Rew, 23 Wall. 331 (a
tax on devolutions of title to real estate); Spreckels Sugar Refining
Company v. McClain, 192 U. S.397 (a tax on the gross receipts of
corporations and companies, in excess of $250,000, engaged in refining
sugar or oil); Railroad Co. v. Collector, 100 U. S.595 (a tax laid in terms
upon the amounts paid by certain public service corporations as interest on their funded debt, or as dividends to their stockholders, and
also on "all profits, incomes or gains of ouch company, and all profits
of such company carried to the account of any fund, or used for construction." Held to be a tax upon the company's earnings and therefore essentially an excise upon the business of the corporations);
Springer v. United States, 102 U. S. 586 (a duty provided by the internal revenue acts to be assessed, collected, and paid upon gains,
profits, and incomes, held to be an excise or duty anf not a direct
tax).
1'Hylton

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of. the Court.

220 U. S.

son shall be denied the equal protection of the laws. See
some of them noted in the margin.'
- In Bell's Gap R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232,
dealing with the Fourteenth Amendment, which in this
-respect imposes limitations only on state authority,. this
court said:
"The provision in the Fourteenth Amendment, that no
State shall deny to any person within its jurisdiction the
equal protection of the laws, was not intended to prevent
a State from adjusting its system of taxation in all proper
and reasonable ways. It may, if it chooses, exempt certain classes of property from any taxation at all, such as
churches, libraries, and the property of charitable institutions. It may impose different specific taxes upon different trades and professions, and may vary the rates of

excise upon various products; it may tax real estate and
.personal property in a different manner; it may tax visible
property only, and not tax securities for payment of
money; it may allow deductions for- indebtedness, or not

I Beers v. Glynn, 211 U. S. 477 (a state tax on personalty of nonresident decedents who owned realty in the State); Hatch v. Reardon,
204 U. S. 1'52 (a state tax on the transfers of stock made within the
State); Armour Packing Company v. Lacy, 200 U. S. 226 (a state
license tax on meat packing houses. A*foreign corporation selling its
products in -the State,. but whose packing establishments are. not
-situated in the State, is not exempt from such license tax); Savannah,
Thunderbolt & Isle of Hope Railway v. Savannah, 198 U. S. 392 (a
classification which distinguishes between an ordinary street railway
and a steam railroad, making an extra charge for local deliveries of
freight brought over its road from outside the city, held, not to be
such a classification as to make the tax void under the Fourteenth
Amendment); Cook.v. Marshall County, 196 U. S.261 (a state tax on
cigarette dealers); Magoun v. Illinois Tru st & Savings Bank, 170 U. S.
283 (upholding the graded inheritance tax law of Illinois); Bell's Gap
RailroadCo. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S.232 (state tax upon the nominal
face Value of bonds, instead of their actual value, held a valid part of
the state system of taxation).

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

allow them. All such regulations, and those of like character, so long as they proceed within reasonable limits and
general usage, are within the discretion of the state legislature, or the people of the State in framing their Constitution."
It is insisted in some of the briefs assailing the validity
of this tax that these cases have been modified by Southern
R. R. Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400. In that case a corporation organized in a State, other than Alabama, came into
that State in compliance with its laws, paid the license tax
and property tax imposed upon other corporations doing
business in the State, and acquired under direct sanction
of the laws of the State a large amount of property therein,
and, when it was attempted to subject.it to a further tax
on the ground that it was for the privilege of doing business as a foreign corporation, when the same tax was not
imposed upon state corporations doing precisely the same
business, in the same way, it was held that the attempted
taxation was merely arbitrary classifi cation,. and void
under the Fourteenth Amendment. In that case the foreign corporation was doing business under the sanction
of the state laws no less than the local corporation; it had
acquired its property under sanction of those laws; it had
paid all direct and indirect taxes levied against it, and there
was no practical distinction between it and a state corporation doing the same business in the same way.
In the case at bar we have already discussed the limitations which the Constitution imposes upon the right to
levy excise taxes, and it could not be said, even if the
principles of the Fourteenth Amendment were applicable
to the present case, that there is no substantial difference
between the carrying on of business by the corporations
taxed, and the same business when conducted by a private
firm or individual. The thing taxed is not the mere dealing in merchandise, in which the actual transactions may
be the same, whether conducted by individuals or corpoVOL. CCXX-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

rations, but the tax is laid upon the privileges which exist
in conducting business with the advantages which inhere
in the corporate capacity of those taxed, and which are
not enjoyed by private firms or individuals. These advantages are obvious, and have led to the formation of
such companies in nearly all branches of trade. The
continuity of the business, without interruption by death
or dissolution, the transfer of property interests by the
disposition of shares of stock, the advantages of business
controlled and managed by corporate directors, the general
absence of individual liability, these and other things inhere in the advantagesof business thus conducted, which
do not exist when the same business is conducted by
private individuals or partnerships. It is this distinctive
privilege which is the subject of taxation, not the mere
buying or selling or handling of goods which may be the
same, whether done by corporations or individuals.
It is further contended that some of the corporations,
notably insurance companies, have large investments in
municipal bonds and other non-taxable securities, and in
real estate and personal property not used in the business,
that therefore the selection of the measure of the income
from all sources is void, because it reaches property which
is not the subject of taxation-upon the authority of the
Pollock Case, supra. But this argument confuses the
measure of the tax upon the privilege, with direct taxation
of the estate or thing taxed. In the Pollock Case, as we
have seen, the tax was held unconstitutional, because it
was in effect a direct tax on the property solely because of
its ownership.
Nor does the adoption of this measure of the amount of
the tax do violence to the rule laid down in Galveston,
Harrisburg & San Antonio Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S.
217, nor the Western Union Tel. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1.
In the Galveston Case it was held that a tax imposed by
the State of Texas, equal to one per cent upon the gross

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

receipts "from every source whatever" of lines of railroad
lying wholly within the State, was invalid as an attempt
to tax gross receipts derived from the carriage of passengers and freight in interstate commerce, which in some
instances was much the larger part of the, gross receipts
taxed.. This court held that this act was an attempt to
burden commerce among the States, and the fact that it
was ddclared to be "equal to" one per cent made no difference, as it was merely an effort to reach gross receipts
by a tax not even disguised as an occupation tax, and in
nowise helped by the words "equal to." In other words,
the tax was held void, as its substance and manifest intent.
was to tax interstate commerce as such.
In the Western Union Telegraph Case the State undertook to levy a graded charter fee upon the entire capital
stock of one hundred millions of dollars of the Western
Union Telegraph Company, a foreign corporation, and
engaged in commerce among the States, as a condition of
doing local business within the State of Kansas. This
court held, looking through. forms and reaching the substance of the thing, that the tax thus imposed was in
reality a tax upon the right to do interstate business
within the State, and an undertaking to tax property beyond the limits of the State; that whatever the-declared
purpose, when reasonably interpreted, the necessary operation and effect of the act in question was to burden interstate commerce and to tax property beyond the jurisdiction of the State, and it was therefore invalid.
There is nothing in these cases contrary, as we shall
have occasion to see, to the former rulings of this court
which hold that where a tax is lawfully imposed upon the
exercise of privileges within the taxing power of the State
or Nation, the measure of such tax may be the income
from the property of the corporation, although a part of
such income is derived from property in itself non-taxable.
The distinction lies between the attempt to tax the prop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

erty as' such and to measure a legitimate tax upon the
privileges involved in the use of such property.
In Home Ins. Co. v. New York, 134 U. S. 594, a tax was
sustained upon the right or privilege of the Home Insurance Company to be a corporation, and to do business
within the State in a corporate capacity, the tax being
measured by the extent of the dividends of the corporation in the current year upon the capital stock. Although
a very large amount, nearly two of three millions of capital
stock was invested in bonds of the United States, expressly exempted from taxation by a statute of the United
States, the tax was sustained as a mode of measurement of
a privilege tax which it was within the lawful authority of
the State to impose. Mr. Justice Field, who delivered the
opinion of the court, reviewed the previous cases in this
court, holding that the State could not tax or burden the
operation of the Constitution and of laws enacted by the
Congress to carry into execution the powers vested in the
General Government. Yielding full assent to those cases,
Mr. Justice Field said of the tax then under consideration:
"It is not a tax in terms upon the capital stock of the
company, nor upon any bonds of the United States composing a part of that stock. The statute designates it a
tax upon the 'corporate franchise or business' of the company, and reference is only made to its capital stock and
dividends for the purpose of determining the amount of
the tax to be exacted each year." In that case, in the
course of the opinion, previous cases of this court were
cited, with approval, Society for Savings v. Coite, 6 Wall.
594; Provident Institution v. Massachusetts, 6 Wall. .611.
In the Coite Case a privilege tax upon the total amount
of deposits in a savings bank was sustained, although
$500,000 of the.deposits had been invested in securities of
the United States, and declared by act of Congress to be
exempt from taxation by state authority. In that case
the court said: "Nothing can be more certain in legal

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

165

Opinion of the Court.

decision than that the privileges and franchises of a
private corporation, and all trades and avocations by
which the citizens acquire a livelihood, may be taxed by a
State for the support of the state government. Authority
to that effect resides in the State independently of the
Federal Government, and is wholly unaffected by the fact
that the corporation or individual has or has not made
investment in Federal securities." In Provident Institution v. Massachusetts, supra, a like tax was sustained.
It is therefore well settled by the decisions of this court
that when the sovereign authority has exercised the right
to tax a legitimate subject of taxation as an exercise of a
franchise or privilege, it is no objection that the measure
of taxation is found in the income produced in part .from
property which of itself considered is non-taxable.. Applying that doctrine to this case, the measure of' taxation
being the income of the corporation from all sources, as
that is but the measure of a privilege tax within the lawful authority of Congress to impose, it is no valid objection that this measure includes, in part at least, property
which as such could not be directly taxed. See in this
connection Maine v. Grand Trunk Ry. Co., .142 U. S. 217,
as interpreted in*Galveston, Harrisburg& San Antonio Ry.
Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217, 226.
It is contended that measurement of the tax by the net
income of the corporation or company received by it from
all sources is not only unequal, but so arbitrary and baseless as to fall outside of the authority of the taxing power.
But is this so? Conceding the power of Congress to tax
the business activities of private corporations, including,
as in this case, the privilege of carrying on business in a
corporate capacity, the tax must be measured by some
standard, and none can be chosen which will operate with
absolute justice and equality upon all corporations. Some
corporations do a large business upon a small amount of
capital; others with a small business may have a large

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.

Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

capital. A tax upon the amount of business done might
operate as unequally as a measure of excise as it is alleged
the measure of income from all sources does. Nor can it be
justly said that investments have no real relation to the
business transacted by a corporation. The possession of
large assets is a business advantage of great value; it may
give credit which will result in more economical business
methods; it may give a standing which shall facilitate
purchases; it may enable the corporation to enlarge the
field of its activities and in many ways give it business
standing and prestige.
It is true that in the Spreckels Case, 192 U. S. supra,
the excise tax, for the privilege of doing business, was based
upon the business assets in use by the company, but this
was because of the express terms of the statute which thus
limited the measure of the excise. The statute now under
consideration bears internal evidence that its draftsman
had in mind language used in the opinion in the Spreckels
Case, and the measure of taxation, the income from all
sources, was doubtless inserted to prevent the limitation
of the measurement of the tax to the income from business assets alone. There is no rule which permits a court
to say that the measure of a tax for the privilege of doing
business, where income from property is the basis, must
be limited to that'derived from property which may be
strictly said to be actively used in the business. Departures from that rule sustained in this court are not
wanting. In United States v. Singer, 15 Wall. 111, an
excise tax was sustained upon the liquor business, which
was fixed by the payment on an amount not less than
80 per cent of the total capacity of the distillery. Whether
such capacity was used in the business was a matter of indifference, and this court said of such a measure:
"Every one is advised in advance of the amount he will
be required to pay if he enters into the business of distilling spirits, and every distiller must know the produc-

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing capacity of his distillery. If he fail under these circumstances to produce the amount for which by the law
he will in any event be taxed if he undertakes to distill at
all, he is not entitled to much consideration."
In Society for Savings v. Coite, 6 Wall. supra, and Provident Institution v. Massachusetts, 6 Wall. supra, as we have
seen, the amount of excise was measured by the amount
of bank deposits. It made no difference that the deposits
were not used actively in the business.
In Hamilton Company v. Massachusetts, 6 Wall. 632,
the tax was measured by the excess of the market value
of the corporation's capital stock above the value of its
real estate and machinery, - and in this connection see
Home Ins. Co. v. New York, 134 U. S. supra, where the
excise was computed upon the entire capital stock measured by the extent Of the dividends thereon.
We must not forget that the right to select the measure
and objects of taxation devolves upon the Congress and
not upon the courts, and such selections are valid unless
constitutional limitations are overstepped. "It is no part
of the function of a court to inquire into the reasonableness of the excise, either as respects the amount or the
property upon which it is imposed." Pattonv. Brady, 184
U. S. 608; McCray v. United States, 195 U. S. 27, 58, and
previous cases in this court there cited.
Nor is that line of cases applicable, such as Brown v.
Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, holding that a tax on the sales
of an importer is a tax on the import, and Cook v. Pennsylvania, 97 U. S. 566, holding a tax on auctioneer's sales
of goods in original packages a tax on imports. In these
cases the tax was held invalid, as the State thereby taxed
subjects of taxation within the exclusive power of Congress.
What we have said as to the power of Congress to lay
this excise tax disposes of the contention that the act is
void as lacking in due process of law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

It is urged that this power can be so exercised by Congress as to practically destroy the right of the States to
create corporations, and for that reason it ought not to be
sustained, and reference is made to the declaration of
Chief Justice Marshall in McCulloch v. Maryland that the
power to tax involves the power to destroy. This argument has not been infrequently addressed to this court
with respect to the exercise of the powers of Congress.
Of such contention this court said in Knowlton v. Moore,
supra:.
"This principle is pertinent only when there is no power
to tax a particular subject, and has no relation to a case
where such right exists. In other words, the power to
destroy which may be the consequence of taxation is a
reason why the right to tax should be confined to subjects
which may be lawfully embraced therein, even although
it happens that in some particular instance no great harm
may be caused by the exercise of the taxing authority as
to a subject which is beyond its scope. But this reasoning
has no application to a lawful tax, for if it had there would
be an end of all taxation; that is to say, if a lawful tax can
be defeated because the power which is manifested by its
imposition may when further exercised be destructive, it
would follow that every lawful tax would become unlawful, and therefore no taxation whatever could be levied."
In Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, supra, speaking
for the court, the Chief Justice said:
"It is insisted, however, that the tax in the case before
us is excessive, and so excessive as to indicate a purpose
on the part of Congress to destroy the franchise of the
bank, and is, therefore, beyond the constitutional power
of Congress.
"The first answer to this is that the judicial cannot
prescribe to the legislative department of the government
limitations upon the exercise of its acknowledged powers.
The power to tax may be exercised. oppressively upon per-

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sons, but the responsibility of the legislature is not to the
courts, but to the people by whom its members are elected.
So if a particular tax bears heavily upon a corporation, or
a class of corporations, it cannot, for that reason only, be
pronounced contrary to the Constitution."
To the same effect: McCray v. United States, 195 U. S.
27. In the latter case it was said:
.
.
no instance is afforded from the foundation
of the government where an act, which was within a power
conferred, was declared to be repugnant to the Constitu,tion, because it appeared to the judicial mind that the
particular exertion of constitutional power was either unwise or unjust."
And in the same case this court said, after reviewing the
previous cases in this court:
"Since, as pointed out in all the decisions referred to,
the taxing power conferred by the Constitution knows. no
limits except those expressly stated in that instrument, it
must follow, if a tax be within the lawful power, the. exertion of that power may be not judicially restrained because of the results to arise from its exercise."
The argument, at last, comes to this: That because of:
possible results, a power lawfully exercised may work
disastrously, therefore the courts must .inteifere to prevent its exercise; because of the consequences feared. No
such authority has ever ben invested.in any court. The
remedy for such wrongs, if such in fact exist, is in the
ability of fhe people to choose their own representatives,
and not in the exertion of unwarranted powers by courts
of justice.
It is especially objected that certain of the corporations
whose stockholders challenge the validity of the tax, are
so-called real estate companies, whose business is principally the holding and management of real estate. These
cases are No. 415, Cedar Street Company v. Park Realty
Company; No. 431, Percy H. Brundage v. Broadway Realty

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

Company; No. 443, Phillips v. Fifty Agsociates; No. 446,
Mitchell v. Clark Iron Company; No. 412, William H.
Miner v. Corn Exchange Bank; and No. 457, Cook v. Boston Wharf Company.
In No. 412, Miner v. Corn Exchange Bank, the bank
occupies a building in part and rents a large part to
tenants.
Of the realty companies, the Park Realty Company was
organized to "work, develop, sell, convey, mortgage or
otherwise dispose of real estate; to lease, exchange, hire
or otherwise acquire property; to erect, alter or improve
buildings; to conduct, operate, manage or lease hotels,
apartment houses, etc.; to make and carry out contracts
in the manner specified concerning buildings.
and generally to deal in, sell, lease, exchange or otherwise
deal with lands, buildings and other property, real or
personal," etc.
At the time the bill was filed the business of the company related to the Hotel Leonori, and the bill averred
that it was engaged in no other business except the management and leasing of that hotel.
The Broadway Realty Company was formed for the
purpose of owning, holding and managing real estate. It
owns an office building and certain securities. The office
building is let to tenants, to whom light and heat are
furnished, and for whom janitor and similar service are
performed.
The Fifty Associates are operating under a charter to
own real estate with power to build, improve, alter, pull
down and rebuild, and to manage, exchange and dispose
of the same.
The Clark Iron Company was organized under the laws
of Minnesota, owns and leases ore lands for the purpose
of carrying on mining operations, and receives a royalty
depending upon the quantity of ore mined.
The Boston Wharf Company is operating under a

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

charter authorizing it to acquire lands and flats, with their
privileges and appurtenances, and to lease, manage and
improve its property in whatever manner shall be deemed
expedient by it, and to receive dockage and wharfage for
vessels laid at its wharves.
What we have said as to the character of the corporation tax as an excise disposes of the contention that it is
direct, and therefore requiring apportionment by the
Constitution. It remains to consider whether these corporations are engaged in business. "Business" is a very
comprehensive term and embraces everything *about
which a person can be employed. Black's Law Dict., 158,
citing People v. Commissioners of Taxes, 23 N. Y. 242, 244.
"That which occupies the time, attention and labor of
men for the purpose of a livelihood or profit." Bouvier's
Law Dictionary, Vol. I, p. 273.
We think it is clear that corporations organized for the
purpose of doing business, and actually engaged in such
activities as leasing property, collecting rents, managing
office buildings, making investments of profits, or leasing
ore lands and collecting royalties, managing wharves,
dividing profits, and in some cases investing the surplus,
are engaged in business within the meaning of this statute,
and in the capacity necessary to make such organizations
subject to the law.
Of the Motor Taximeter Cab Company Case, No. 432, the
company owns and leases taxicabs, and collects rents
therefrom. We think it is also doing business within the
meaning of the statute.
What we have already said disposes of the objections
made in certain cases of life insurance and trust companies, and banks, as to income derived from United
States, state, municipal or other non-taxable bonds.
We come to the question: Is a so-called public service
corporation, such as The Coney Island and Brooklyn
Railroad Company, in case No. 409, and the Interborough

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the.Court.

220 U. S.

Rapid Transit Company, No. 442, exempted from the
operation of this statute? In the case of South Carolinav.
United States, 199 U. S. 437, this court held that when a
State, acting within its lawful authority, undertook. to
carry on the liquor business it did not withdraw the
agencies of the State carrying on the traffic from the
operation of the internal revenue laws of the United
States. If a State may not thus withdraw from the
operation of a Federal taxing law a subject-matter of such
taxation, it is difficult to see how the incorporation of
companies whose service, though of a public nature, is,
nevertheless, with a view to private profit, can have the
effect of denying the Federal right to reach such properties
and activities for the purposes of revenue.
It is no part of the essential governmental functions of
a State to provide means of transportation, supply artificial light, water and the lik6. These objects are often
accomplished through the medium of private corporations, and, though the public may derive a benefit from
such operations, the companies carrying on such enterprises are, nevertheless, private companies, whose business is prosecuted for private emolument and advantage.
For the purpose of taxation they stand upon the same
footing as other private corporations upon which special
franchises have been conferred.
The true distinction is between the attempted taxation
of those operations of the States essential to the execution
of its governmental functions, and which the State can
only do itself, and those activities which are of a private
character. The former, the United States may not interfere with by taxing the agencies of the State in carrying
out its purposes; the latter, although regulated by the
State, and exercising delegated authority, such as the
right of eminent domain, are not removed from the field of
legitimate Federal taxation.
Applying this principle, we are of opinion that the so-

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

called public service corporations, represented in the cases
at bar, are not exempt from the tax in question. Railroad
Co. v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5, 33.
It is again objected that incomes under $5,000 are
exempted. from the tax. It is only necessary, in this connection, to refer to Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. supra,
in which a tax upon inheritances in excess of $10,000 was
sustained. In Magoun v. Illinois Trust & Savings Bank,
170 U. S. 283, 293, a graded inheritance tax was sustained.
As to the objections that certain organizations, labor,
agricultural and horticultural,. fraternal and benevolent
societies, loan and building associations, and those for
religious, charitable or educational purposes, are excepted
from the operation of the law, we find nothing in them to
invalidate the tax. As we have.had frequent occasion to
say, the decisions of this court from an early date to the
present time have emphasized the right of Congress to
select the objects of excise taxation, and within this power
to tax some and leave others untaxed, must be included
the right to make exemptions such as are found in this
act.
Again, it is urged that Congress exceeded its power in
permitting a deduction to be made of interest payments
only in case of interest paid by banks, and trust companies on deposits, and interest actually paid within the
year on its bonded or other indebtedness to an amount of
such bonded and other indebtedness not exceeding the
paid-up capital stock of the corporation or company.
This provision may have been inserted with a view to
prevent corporations from issuing a large amount of
bonds in excess of the paid-up capital stock, and thereby
distributing profits so as to avoid the tax. In any event,
we see no reason why this method of ascertaining the deductions allowed should invalidate the act. Such details
are not wholly arbitrary, and were deemed essential to
practical operation. Courts cannot substitute their judg-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U.S.

ment for that of the legislature. In such matters a wide
range of discretion is allowed.
The argument that different corporations are so differently circumstanced in different States, and the operation of the law so unequal as to destroy it, is so fully met
in the opinion in Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41, supra,
that it is only necessary to make reference thereto. For
this purpose the law operates uniformly, geographically
considered, throughout the United States, and in the same
way wherever the subject-matter is found. A liquor tax
is not rendered unlawful as a revenue measure because it
may yield nothing in those States which have prohibited
the liquor traffic. No more is the present law unconstitutional because of inequality of operation owing to different
local conditions.
Nor is the special objection tenable, made in some of the
cases, that the corporations act as trustees, guardians,
etc., under the authority of the laws or courts of the State.
Such trustees are not the agents of the state government
in a sense which exempts them from taxation because
executing the necessary governmental powers of the State.
The trustees receive their compensation from the interests
served, and not from the public revenues of the State.
It is urged in a number of the cases that in a certain
feature of the statute there is a violation of the Fourth
Amendment of the Constitution, protecting against unreasonable searches and seizures. This Amendment was
adopted to protect against abuses in judicial procedure
under the guise of law, which invade the privacy of persons in their homes, papers and effects, and applies to
criminal prosecutions and suits for penalties and forfeitures under the revenue laws. Boyd v. United States,
116 U. S. 632. It does not prevent the issue of search
warrants for the seizure of gambling paraphernalia and
other illegal matter. Adams v. New York, 192 U. S. 585.
It does not prevent the issuing of process to require at-

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tendance and testimony of witnesses, the production of
books and papers, etc. Interstate Commerce Commission
v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447; Interstate Commerce Commission
v. Baird, 194 U. S. 25. Certainly the Amendment was not
intended to prevent the ordinary procedure in use in
many, perhaps most, of the States of requiring tax returns to be made, often under oath. The objection in this
connection applies, when the substance of the argument is
reached, to the sixth section of the act, which provides:
"Sixth. When the assessment shall be made, as provided in this section, the returns, together with any corrections thereof which may have been made by the commissioner, shall be filed in the office of the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue and shall constitute public records
and be-open to inspection as such. "
An amendment was made June 17, 1910, which reads
as follows:
"For classifying, indexing, exhibiting and properly caring for the returns of all corporations, required by section thirty-eight of an act entitled 'An act to provide
revenue, equalize duties, encourage the industries of the
United States, and for other purposes,' approved August fifth, nineteen hundred and nine, including the employment in the District of Columbia, of.such clerical and
other personal services and for rent of such quarters as
may be necessary, twenty-five thousand dollars: Provided,
That any and all such returns shall be open to inspection
only upon the order of the President under rules and regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury
and approved by the President."
The contention is that the above section as originally
framed and as now amended could have no legitimate
connection with the collection of the tax, and in substance
amounts to no more than an unlawful attempt to exhibit
the private affairs of corporations to public or private
inspection, without any substantial connection with or

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

legitimate purpose tb be subserved in the collection of the
tax under the' act now under consideration. But we cannot- agree to this contention. The taxation being, as we
have held, within the legitimate powers of Congress, it is
for that body to determine what means are appropriate
and adapted to the purposes of making the law effectual.
In this connection the often quoted declaration of Chief
Justice Marshall in McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat.
316, 421, is appropriate: "Let the end be legitimate, let it
be within the scope of the Constitution, and all means
which are appropriate, and which are plainly adapted to
that end, and which are not prohibited, but are consistent
with the letter and spirit of the Constitution, are constitutional."
Congress may have deemed the public inspection of
such returns a means of more properly securing the fullness and accuracy thereof. In many of the States laws
are to be found making tax returns public documents,
and open to inspection. 1
In Connecticut, the requirement is that the tax lists of the assessors
shall be abstracted and lodged in the town clerk's office "for public inspection." R. S. Conn., 1902, § 2310. In New York, notices of the completion of the assessment rolls must be conspicuously posted in three
or more public places, and a copy left in a specified place, "where it
may be seen and examined by any person until the third Tuesday of
August next following." Consol. Laws of N. Y., vol. 5, p. 5859; Laws
N. Y., 1909, c. 62, § 36. In Maryland, a record of property assessed
is required to be kept, and the valuation thereof with alphabetical list
of owners recorded in a book, "which any person may inspect without
fee or reward." Pub. Laws Md., vol. 2, p.. 1804, § 23. In Pennsylvania,
it is provided that from the time of publishing the assessor's returns
until the day appointed for finally determining whether the assessor's
valuations are too low, "any taxable inhabitant of the county shall
have the right to examine the said return in the commissioner's office."
Pepper & Lewis' Dig. Laws Pa., vol. 2, p. 4591, § 357. In New Hampshire, the list of taxes assessed are required to be kept in a book, and
also left with the town clerk, and such records "shall be open to the
inspection of all persons," Pub, Stat. N. H., 1901, p. 214, § 5.

FLINT v. STONE TRACY CO.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

We cannot say that this feature of the law does violence
to the constitutional protection of the Fourth Amendment,
and, this is equally true of the Fifth Amendment, protecting persons against compulsory self-incriminating testimony. No question under the latter Amendment properly
arises in these cases, and when circumstances are presented which invoke the protection of that Amendment
and raise questions involving rights thereby secured it
will be time enough to decide them. And so of the argument that the penalties for the non-payment of the taxes
are so high as to violate the Constitution. No case is
presented involving that question, and, moreover, the
penalties are clearly a separate part of the act, and
whether collectible or nof may be determined in. a case
involving an attempt to enforce them. Wilkox v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212 U. S.19, 53.
It has been suggested that there is a lack of power to
tax foreign corporations, doing local business in a State,
in the manner proposed in this act, and that the tax upon,
such corporations, being unconstitutional, works such
inequality against domestic corporations as to,invalidate
the law. It is sufficient to say of this that no such case is
presented in the record. Southern Railway, Co. v. King,
217 U. S. 525. This is -equally true as to the alleged invalidity of the act as a tax on exports, which is beyond the
power of Congress. No such case is presented in those
now before the court.
We have noticed such objections- as are made to the
constitutionality of this law as it is deemed necessary to
consider. Finding the statute to be within the constitutional power of the Congress, it follows that the judgments
in the several cases must be affirmed.
Affirmed.

VOL. ccxx-12

