EX PARTE METROPOLITAN WATER CO.
220 U. S.

639

Counsel for Parties.

EX PARTE METROPOLITAN WATER COMPANY
OFWEST VIRGINIA
No. 19, Original. Argued April 24, 1911.-Decided May 15, 1911.
The provisions of § 17 of the act of June 18, 1910, c. 309, 36 Stat. 557,
in regard to interlocutory injunctions to restrain the enforcement of
state statutes on the ground of unconstitutionality, relate to the
hearing of the application, and a single judge has no jurisdiction to
hear and deny such an application. He must, prior to the hearing,
call to his assistance two other judges, as required by the act.
A single justice or judge who, without calling to his assistance two
other judges as required by § 17 of the act of June 18, 1910, c. 309,
36 Stat. 557, denies an application for injunction-in a case specified
in said act, on the ground that the state statute involved is constitutional, acts without jurisdiction, and the order is void.
.Where no appeal is given by statute, mandamus is the proper remedy,,
Eix pare Harding,219 U. S. 363; and so held as to an order made by
a single judge denying a motion for injunction in a case specified in
§ 17 of the act of June 18, 1910,.c. 309, 36 Stat. 557, the statute only
providing for appeals from orders made after hearing by three

judges.
THE facts, which involve the construction of § 17 of the
Act of June 18, 1910, c. 309, 36 Stat. 539, 557, in regard
to the practice to be pursued in courts of the United States
in a case where an interlocutory injunction is applied for
to restrain the enforcement,, operation or execution of
a state statute by restraining the action of any officer of
the State, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Willard P.: Hall, with whom Mr. C. F. Hutchings
and Mr. 0. L. Miller were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Lewis
Keplinger, with whom Mr. Charles W
g.
Trickett was on the brief, for respondents and Kaw Valley
Drainage District.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

.220 U. S.

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This is a proceeding in mandamus, in which relief is
sought, against a district judge, acting in a certain cause
as a circuit judge for the district of Kansas, and also
against the Circuit Court of the United States for the
district of Kansas. To a rule to show cause a return has
been filed and the Kaw Valley Drainage District of Wyandotte County, Kansas, has also, by leave, answered the
rule. The matter is now for decision upon a motion, to
make the rule absolute.
Summarily stated, the facts bearing upon the issue to be
decided are as follows:
By § 17 of the act of June 18, 1910, ch. 309, 36 Stat.
539, 557, creating the Commerce Court and amending the
act to regulate commerce, provision was made as to the
practice to be pursued in courts of the United States in
cases whre an-interlocutory injunction is applied for to restrain the enforcement, operation or execution of any statute of a State by restraining the action of any officer of
,such State in the enforcement or execution of such statute.
While proceedings, originally instituted in a state court
of Kansas to condemn lands of the Water Company and
others for the. purpose of widening the Kansas River, were
pending on appeal in the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit, the legislature of Kansas, on January 28,
1911, -enacted a statute which, in effect, authorized a summary appropriation of the lands affected by the pending
condemnation suits, . and directed the bringing by the
Attorney General of the State of an action, after such appropriation had been consummated, against the owners of
the lands appropriated" to determine the ownership of the
property and to assess the value thereof and other damages for the taking of such portions of it as may belong to
parties other than the public." By § 6 it was provided,

EX PARTE METROPOLITAN WATER CO.
220 U. S.

541

Opinion of the Court.

among other things, that upon a failure, to satisfy the judgment rendered "the rights of the State to such land shall
be divested and the possession thereof shall revert to the
former adjudicated owners, in which event compensation
shall be awarded for any loss or damage occasioned by the
temporary appropriation, and that the court shall render
judgment therefor. . . ." A few days after the passage of this statute the petitioner, a West Virgihia corporation, commenced a suit in the Circuit Court of the United
,States for the district of Kansas against the Kaw Valley
Drainage District of Wyandotte County, Kansas, and the
individuals composing the board of directors of said drainage district, all averred to be citizens and residents of the
district where the suit was brought. The bill prayed relief
by injunction, temporary and permanent, restraining the
defendants from a threatened taking possession of the
lands of the petitioner under the act of January 28, 1911,
upon the ground that the statute was repugnant to the
Constitution of the United States. Thereafter, on February 8, 19.11, District Judge McPherson, acting as circuit judge, issued a restraining order in the cause. The
attention of the judge was called by the defendants to the
provisions of § 17 of the act of Congress heretofore referred
to, and request was made that two other judges, one of
whom should be a circuit judge or a justice of the Supreme
Court, should be called to assist in the hearing and determination of an application which was pending for a temporary injunction. It was, however, ruled that the provisions of such section merely deprived a single judge of the
power to grant a temporary injunction, and that a court
might be held by one judge for the purpose of decreeing the
assailed statute to be constitutional and refusing to enjoin
its enforcement. The court then heard argument, Judge
McPherson alone sitting, upon the constitutionality of
the Kansas statute. At the close of the hearing, counsel
for the Water Company made the objection theretofore

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

urged by opposing.counsel that the matter
could only be
disposed of by a court consisting of three judges, constituted as provided in the statute. Judge McPherson adhered, however, to his former ruling, and on March 6,1911,
,a decree was entered vacating the temporary restraining
.order and denying a temporary injunction This application for a writ of mandamus was then made.
The right to relief is based upon the contention that by
virtue of the act of Congress a single judge -was without
jurisdiction ' to hear and determine the application for a
temporary injunction. The prayer is that an order or
rule be issued commanding the annulment and setting
aside of the order'of March 6, 1911, vacating the restraining order and denying the application for an injunction,
and directing that the application for a temporary injunction be heard anew before a court consisting of three
judges, in conformity to the act of Congress.
The question for decision. is. whether, pursuant to, the
act .of Cbngress referred to, the Circuit Court composed
only of one judge had power to hear and determine the
application for a temporary injunction in the cause pending in'the Circuit Court of Kansas. The legislation to be
considered is § 17 of the Act of June 18, 1910, ch. 309, 36
Stat. 539, 557, reading as follows:
"That no interlocutory injunction suspending or restraining. the enforcement, operation, or execution of-any
statute of a State by restraining the action of any officer
of such State in the enforcement or execution of such statute shall be issued or granted by any justice of the Supreme
Court, or by any Circuit Court of the United States, or by
any judge thereof, or by any district judge acting as circuit
judge, upon the ground of the unconstitutionality of such
statute, unless the application for the same shall be presented, to a justice of the Supreme Court of the United
States, or to a Circuit. judge, or to a district judge acting
as circuit judge, and shall be heard'and determined by

EX PARTE METROPOLITAN WATER CO.
220 U. S.

543

Opinion of the Court.

three judges, of whom at least one shall be a justice of the
Supreme Court of the United States or a circuit judge,
and the other two may be either circuit or district
judges, and unless a majority of said three judges shall
concur in granting such application. Whenever such
application as aforesaid is presented to a justice of the
Supreme Court of the United States, or to a judge, he
shall immediately call to his assistance to hear and determine the application two other judges: Provided, however, That one of such three judges shall be a justice of
the Supreme Court of the United States or a circuit judge.
Said application shall not be heard or determined before at
least five days' notice of the hearing has been given to the
governor and to the attorney general of the State, and to
such other persons as may be defendants in the suit: Provided, That if of opinion that irreparable loss or damage
would result to the complainant unless a temporary restraining order is granted, any justice of the Supreme
Court of the United States, or any circuit or district judge,
may grant such temporary restraining order at any time
before such hearing and determination of the application
for an interlodutory injunction, but such temporary restraining order shall only remain in force until the hearing
and determination of the application for an interlocutory
injunction upon notice as aforesaid. The hearing upon
such application for an interlocutory injunction shall be
given precedence and shall be in every way expedited and
be assigned for a hearing *at the earliest practicable day
after the expiration of the notice hereinbefore provided for.
An appeal may be taken directly to the Supreme Court of
the United States from the order granting or denying,
after notice. and hearing, an interlocutory injunction in
such case."
in the opinion delivered by the court below in Passing upon the question of the proper construction of the
foregoing section the nature of the suit brought by

.544

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

the Water Company was thus concisely and accurately
stated:
"That these proceedings are for the purpose by injunction of restraining the enforcement of the state statute, I
have no doubt. It is alleged that such state statute is
absolutely void as being in conflict with both the state
and National constitutions. The prayers are in effect that
the statute be decreed void. Neither have I any doubt
that the action is to restrain the action of an Officer of the
State of Kansas, namely, the Governor. This is so because the state statute in question provides that when the
Governor issues his proclamation, which he has done, he
shall at once take possession of the property either in person, or he may designate the officers of the drainage board
to take such possession for him and in his name, 'but such
officers of the drainage board to act as agents of the Governor. Therefore, I am of the opinion that the congressional statute is directly involved. And the question remains, shall this court now halt these proceedings, or shall
other judges be cafled in to take control of the cases."
The suit being of the nature just stated, we are of opinion that the provisions of the act of Congress which are
relied upon applied to the Case, and that as a result of their
application it imperatively follows that the hearing and
determination of the request for a temporary injunction
should ha-e been had before a court consisting of three
judges constituted in the mode specified in the statute.
We say the hearing should have been had as just stated
because it results from the text of the applicable section of
the act that limitations are unequivocally imposed upon
the power of the single justice or judge to act in the character of case to which the provision refers. They are, a, ,to
receive an application for an interlocutory injunction in the
character of case stated in the section; b, within the period
specified in the section' to- grant a temporary restraiing
order "if of opinion that irreparable loss or damage would

EX PARTE METROPOLITAN WATER CO.
220 U. S.

545

Opinion of the Court.

result to the complainant unless a temporary restraining
order is granted;" and, c, to "immediately call to his assistance to hear and determine the application (for an
interlocutory injunction) two other judges." It is to thehearing thus provided for that the notice must relate
which is to be given to the Governor and to the Attorney
General of the State and "such other persons as may be
defendants in the suit." It is the hearing before the court
thus constituted, also that is required to be expedited; and
the appeal authorized by the section. to be taken directly
to this court "from the order granting or denying, after
notice and hearing, an interlocutory injunction" is manifestly an appeal from the expedited hearing had before
the court consisting of three judges. We find no expression
of or implication anywhere in the section justifying the
assumption that there was an intention on the part of Congress that the single justice or judge to whom the application for the interlocutory injunction should be presented
need not. call to his assistance two other judges to pass
upon the applicatibn, in the event that he was of opinion
that the claim of the unconstitutionality of the statute was
untenable. On the contrary, the statute evidences the
purpose of Congress that the application for the interlocutory injunction should be heard before the enlarged court,
whether the claim of unconstitutionality be or be not meritorious, as the appeal allowed to this cpurt i from an order
denying as well as from an order granting an injunction.
Congress having declared that the merits of the application for an interlocutory injunction, such as that applied
for in the case with which we are concerned, should be
considered and determined by a tribunal consisting ofthree
judges constituted as provided in the act, it results that
a tribunal not so constituted did not possess jurisdiction
over the subject-matter of the right to' such injunction.
It follows, therefore, that in hearing and determining the
application for the temporary injunction the single judge
voL. ccxx-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

acted without jurisdiction, and that the order entered by
him on March 6, 1911, vacating the restraining order
theretofore issued and denying the application for an
injunction was void. This being the case, it necessarily
follows that mandamus is the proper remedy, since the
section made no provision for an appeal from an order
made by a single judge denying an interlocutory injunction, and a right of appeal is not otherwise given by statute.
Ex parte Harding, 219 U. S. 363. While these considerations dispose of the case, we briefly advert to an insistence
made in argument that we should now take jurisdiction of
the merits of the case as made in the Circuit Court and
determine whether or not the bill stated'a case entitling to
relief. Not being vested with original jurisdiction to pass
upon the question of the validity of the Kansas statute,
and the petitioner being entitled as of right to have the
controversy as to the constitutionality of the statute presented by its bill of complaint passed upon by a tribunal
having such original jurisdiction, it follows that we do not
possess a discretion to grant or refuse the writ, dependent
upon our conception as to whether the Kansas statute is.
or is not constitutional.
The rule issued on April 10, 1911, must be made absolute, and an order will be entered that a writ of mandamus
issue-directing the Honorable Smith McPherson, as acting
circuit judge of-the United States for the District of Kansas, and the Circuit Court of the.' United States for the
District of Kansas, to annul and set aside the order of
March 6, 1911, vacating the restraining order theretofore
issued on February 8, 1911, and denying the application
for injunction, and that said judge or such other judge of
the said Circuit Court as may hear and determine the application for an interlocutory injunction call to his assistance two other judges, as provided by § 17 of chapter 309
of the act of Congress approved June 18, 1910.
Rule to show cause made absolute.

