UNITED STATES v. ERIE R. R. CO.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES ;v. ERIE RAILROAD. COMPANY.
SAME v. CENTRAL:'RAILROAD
NEW JERSEY.

COMPANY OF

SAME v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

Nos. 537, 538, 539.

Argued January 5, 1911.-Decided April 3, 1911.

Under the decision of this court in these and other commodities clause
cases, 213 U. S. 364, there was no. error in the Circuit Court dismissing the bill absolutely, the Government not having asked leave
to amend, the stipulation to submit on bill and answer not having
been withdrawn, and no violation of the law having been shown on
the admitted facts.
Under such circumstances the decree must be affirmed whatever may
be its scope and effect as res judicata in view of stipulations made in
the court below.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Wade H. Ellis, Special, Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom The Attorney General and Mr. Edwin
P. Grosvenor, Special Assistant to the Attorney General,
were on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. John G. •Johnson for appellees. Mr. Adelbert Moot
and Mr. Geo. F. Brownell submitted a separate brief for
the appellee in No. 537.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of
the court.

These three cases were embraced in the commoditie

cases previously before this court, and, like the Lehigh

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

Valley Railroad Company Case, No. 536, ante, p. 257,
they are but sequels of the controversy pointed out in the
opinion in that case as having been formerly passed upon
in the opinion reported in Sand Filtration Corporation v.
Cowardin, 213 U. S. 366. These cases, however, differ
from the Lehigh Valley Case in this respect. Upon the
filing in the Circuit Court of the mandate of this court the
United States in each case, upon the same record on which
the reversed decree was based, without offering to show
any further facts, or withdrawing the stipulation to submit the cause on bill and answer referred to in the opinion
in the Lehigh Valley Case, moved that the decree to be
entered be "that the bill be dismissed without prejudice."
This motion was denied,. whereupon the court was informed that the Government did not intend to proceed
further with the cause, and in each case a decree was
entered dismissing the cause absolutely.
The error alleged is in substance that the Circuit Court
erred in each case in dismissing the bill of complaint absolutely. But leave to amend was not asked, and as, upon
the facts appearing and admitted on each record, no violation of the commodities clause was shown, the decree
entered may properly be held to have been in strict "conformity with the opinion of 'this court." Whatever,
therefore,. in view of the stipulation made below, may be
the scope and effect of the decree as res judicata, we see no
reason for concluding that error was committed by the
Circuit Court in refusing to qualify its decree. The decree
in each case is, therefore,
Affirmed.

