OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

220 U. S.

covery of the infringing matter, and having conducted
it so far as to have the goods seized and turned over to
them, can have no other remedy under the statute which
provides for all relief in a single action.
It is stated in the certificate that the replevin suit
originally begun is still pending. Such being the fact
we do not wish to intimate, by anything herein decided,
that the authority to amend pleadings and process in
the Federal courbs may not justify an amendment in
that case so as to embrace the entire relief which could
have been obtained in a single action under ยง 4965 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States, as we have stated.
That question will arise if an application shall be made
to the Circuit Court of the United States in that view.
Holding that the remedy under the copyright statute
embraces but one action, as was held in the Wcrckmeistcr
Case, and that the local statutes of the State as to replevin, or other remedies, will not prevent the Federal
court from framing its process and writs, so as to give
full relief in one action, we answer both of the questions
certified in the affirmative.
It is So ordered.

GAVIERES v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No. 102.

Submitted March 13, 1911.-Decided April 3, 1911.

Protection against double jeopardy was by ยง 5 of the act of July 1,
1902, c. 1369, 32 Stat. 691, carried to the Philippine Islands in the
sense and in the meaning which it had obtained undcr the Constitution and laws of the United States. Kepner v. United States, 195
U. S.100.
The protection intended and specifically given is against second jeopardy for the same offense, and where separate offenses arise from
the same transaction the protection does not apply.

GAVIERES v. UNITED STATES.
220 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

A single act may be an offense against two statutes, and if each. statute
requires proof of an additional fact which the other does not, an
acquittal or conviction under either statute does not exempt the
defendant from prosecution or conviction under the other. Carter v.
McClaughry 183 U. S. 367.
In this case held that one convicted and punished under an ordinance
prohibiting drunkenness and rude and boisterous language was not
put in second jeopardy by being subsequently tried under another
ordinance for insulting a public officer although the latter charge was
based on the same conduct and language as the former. They were
separate offenses and required separate proof to convict. Graftn v.
United States, 206 U. S. 333, distinguished.

facts, which involve the construction of the provisions in the Philippine Island act of July 1, 1902, as to
second jeopardy, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Vicente G. Gauieres, plaintiff inerror, pro se:
The Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands erred in
holding that the fact that the plaintiff in error was twice
placed in jeopardy by the second indictment was not
clearly proven, and it also erred in holding that the plaintiff in error had committed an offense against two government entities and therefore the prosecution by one was
not a bar to the prosecution by the other. See Grafton
v. United States, 206 U. S.333.
The court below also erred in holding that the offenses
charged in the two complaints were essentially different
in their nature, that they were separate and entirely
distinct offenses, and that the same act may constitute
a crime against the State and also against the municipality, so that each may punish a person for an infraction of
both laws by a single act and that punishment by either
does not preclude punishment by the other. Chan Cun
Chay, 5 Phil. Rep. 385; Flemister'Case,5 Phil. Rep. 650.
If these Islands had ceded to the United States certain
rights then undoubtedly they might have retained the
right to punish all crimes against law regardless of whether

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

or not the Government of the United States did so or not,
but the situation is reversed. These Islands by an act
of Congress are protected by the Philippine Bill, which
gave certain rights and imposed certain restrictions on
the power of the- courts, including the prohibition against
a man being placed twice in jeopardy for the same offense.
Under this provision there must be two offenses essentially different in, their nature in order that two punishments may be inflicted.Mr. Assistant Attorney General: Harr for the United

States:
The two -offenses of which plaintiff in error was convicted are like 'those considered in Flemister v. United
States, 207 U. S. 372.
.The nature of the offenses mfst, of course, be determined from the complaints filed against the plaintiff in
error, Burton v. United States, 202 U. S. 380, considered
in the light of the statutes under which they were drawn.
The requirement of proof of an additional fact makes
the offense distinctive; and precludes a plea of autrefois
convict. Morey v. Commonwealth, 108 Massachusetts, 433;
Carter v. McClaughry, 183 U. S. 367, 395.

The decisions of other courts are to the same effect.
.Mcintosh v. -State, 116 -Georgia, 543; State v. Taylor,

133 N. Car. 755. See also Veazy v. State, 4 Ga. App.
845; Blair v. State, 81 Georgia, 628, 629; United States v.

Hood, 26 Fed. Cas. No. 15,385; State v. Innes, 53 Maine,
536; People v. Warren, 1 Parker, Crim. Rep. N. Y. 338;
State v. Stewart, 11 Oregon, 52; State v. Magone, 33
Oregon,. 570; Grafton v. United States, 206 U. S. 333,

distinguished.
MR. JUSTiCE DAY

delivered the-opinion of the court.

This case presents the singl6 question whether theplaintiff in error, by reason of the proceedings, herein-

GAVIERES v. UNITED STATES.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

after stated, has been twice in jeopardy for the. same
offense.
Gavieres, plaintiff in error, was charged, convicted and
sentenced in the Court of First Instance of the city of
Manila, Philippine Islands, of a violation of Article 257 of
the penal code of the Philippine Islands, which provides:
"The penalty of arresto mayor sh-ll also be imposed
on those who outrage, insult, or threaten, by deed or word,
public officials or agents of the authorities, in their presen~e,:.or in a writing addressed to them.".
Gavieres was charged under this article with the crime
of calumniating, outraging and insulting a-public official
in the exercise of his office by word of mouth and in his
presence. Upon conviction he was sentenced to four
months of arresto mayor and to pay the cost of the prosecution. He had been previously convicted, because of
the same words and conduct, under Art. 28, ยง 2, of the
.ordinance of the city of Manila, which provides:
".No person shall be drank or intoxicated
or behave in a
drunken, boisterous; rude, or indecent manner in 'any
public place open to public view; or be -drunk or intoxicated or behave in a drunken'boisterous, rude, or indecent
manner in any place or premises to the, annoyance 'of
another person."
Section 5 of the act of Congress of July 1, 1902, 32 Stat.,
c. 1369, 691, provides: ".No person, for the same offense,
shall be twice' put in jeopardy of punishment."
This statute was before this court in the case of Kepner
v. United States, 195 U. S. 100, and it was there held that the protection against double jeopardy therein provided
had, by means -of this statute, been carried to the Philippine Islands in the sense and in the meaning which it had
obtained under the Constitution and laws of the United
States.
It is to be observed that the protection intended and
specifically given is against second jeopardy for the same

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

offense. The question, therefore, is, Are the offenses
charged, and of which a conviction has been had in the
municipal court and in the Court of First Instance, identical. An examination of the ordinance shows that the gist
of the offense under it was behaving in an indecent manner
in a public place, open to public view-. It was not necessary to charge or prove under the municipal ordinance
any outrage, insult or threat to a public official or agent
'of the authorities. The charge contained in the record
shows that under the municipal ordinance the plaintiff in
error was charged with willfully and unlawfully, in a
public street car and in the presence -of numerous persons,
including ladies, conducting himself in a reckless, indecent
and- discourteous manner.
It is true that the acts and words of the accused set
forth 'in both charges are the .same; but in the second
case it was charged, as. was essential' to conviction, that
the misbehavior in .deed and words was addressed to a
public official. In this view we are of opinion that while
the transaction charged is the same in each case, the
offenses are different. This was the view taken in Morey
v. Commonwealth' 108 Massachusetts; 433, in which, the
Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, speaking by
Judge Gray, held:
"A conviction or acquittal upon one indictment is no
bar to a subsequent conviction and sentence upon another,
unless the 'evidence required to support a conviction upon
one of them would have been sufficient to warrant a conviction upon the other. The test is not whether the defendant has already been tried for the same act, but
whether he has becn put in jeopardy for the same offense.
A single act may be an offense.against two statutes;
and if each statute. requires proof of an additional fact
which the other does not, an acquittal or conviction under
either statute does not exempt the defendant from prosecution and punishment under the other."

GAVIERES v. UNITED STATES.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

This case was cited with approval in Carter v. McClaughry, 183 U. S. 367, 395. In the Carter Case, speaking of the identity of offenses charged, this court said:
"The offenses charged under this article were not one
and the same offense. This is apparent if the test of the
identity of offenses that the same evidence is required
to sustain them be applied. The first charge alleged 'a
conspiracy to defraud,' and the second charge alleged
'causing false and fraudulent claims to be made,' which
were separate and distinct offenses, one requiring certain
evidence which the other did not. The fact that both
charges related to and grew out of one transaction made
no difference."
In Burton v. United States, 202 U. S. 344, 381, Bishop's
Criminal Law, vol. 1, ยง 1051, was quoted with approval
to the effect "jeopardy is not the same when the two
indictments are so diverse as to preclude the same evidence
from sustaining both." In that case this court said,
speaking of a plea of autrefois, acquit, "It must appear
that the offense charged, using the words of Chief Justice
Shaw, 'was the same in law and in fact. The plea will
be vicious if the offenses charged in the two indictments
be perfectly distinct in point of law, however nearly they
may be connected in fact."'
Applying these principles, it is apparent that evidence
sufficient for conviction under the first charge would
not have convicted under the second indictment. In
the second case it was necessary to aver and prove the
insult to a public official or agent of the authorities, in
his presence or in a writing addressed to him. Without
such charge and proof there-could have been no conviction
in the second case. The requirement-of insult to a public
official was lacking in the first offense. Upon the charge,
under the ordinance, it was necessary to show that the
offense was committed in a public place open to public
view; the insult to a public official need only be in his

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

presence or addressed to him in writing. Each offense
required proof of. a fact, which the other did not. Consequently a conviction of one would not bar a prosecution
for the other.
A minority of the Supreme Court of the Philippine
Islands was of opinion that there was double jeopardy
in the case at bar upon the authority of the case of Grafton
v. United States, 206 U. S. 333. In that case the Supreme
Court of the 'Philippine Islands held that a soldier of
the United States Army might be prosecuted for homicide
before a military court-martial aid also before a civil
court exercising authority in the islands. That judgment
was reversed and the conviction before the military courtmartial held to bar a prosecution for the same homicide
in the civil courts of the Philippine Islands. It appeared
that Grafton had been acuitted of the unlawful homicide
of a Filipino by a duly convened court-martial having
jurisdiction of the offense. After acquittal he was charged
in the Court of First Instance of the Province of Iloilo
with the crime of assassination in committing the same
homicide. He was convicted, notwithstanding his plea of
former jeopardy, of infraction of article 404 of the penal
code, of the crime of homicide in killing the Filipino.
This court held that the court-martial had full jurisdiction to try the accused for the offense; that it derived
its authority from the same governmental power as did
the civil court in the Philippine Islands, and that if the
conviction in the civil court were allowed to stand the accused would be for the second time in jeopardy for the
same homicide. Mr. Justice Harlan, delivering the opinion of the court, said:
"But passing by all other questions discussed by
counsel or which might arise on the record, and restricting our decision to the above question of double jeopardy,
we adjudge that, consistently with the above act of 1902
and for the reasons stated, the plaintiff in error, a soldier

VILAS v. MANILA.
220 U. S.

Syllabus.

in the army, having been acquitted of the crime of homicide, alleged 'to have been committed by him in the
Philippines,, by a military court of competent jurisdiction,
proceeding under the authority of the United States,
could not be subsequently tried for the same offense in
a civil court exercising authority in that territory."
In the case at bar the offense of insult to a public official,
covered by the section of the Philippine code, was not
within, the terms of the offense or prosecution under the
ordinance. While it is true that the conduct of the accused was one and the same, two offenses resulted, each
of which had an element not embraced in the other.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Philippine
Islands is affirmed.
Affirmed

Dissenting,

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN.

VILAS v. CITY OF MANILA.
TRIGAS v. SAME.
AGUADO v. SAME.
ERROR TO AND APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF
THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
Nos. 53, 54, 207.

Argued February 24, 27, 1911.-Decided April 3, 1911.

Even if'
there is no remedy adequate to the collection of a claim
against a governmental subdivision when reduced to judgment, a
aintiff having a valid claim is entitled to maintain an action thereon
and reduce it to judgment.
Where the case turned below on the consequence of a change in sovereignty by reason of the cession of the Philippine Islands, the construction of the treaty with Spain of 1898 is involved, and this court
has jurisdiction of an appeal from the Supreme Court of the Philip-

