OKLAHOMA v. A., T. & SANTA FE RY..
220 U. S.

277

Argument for Complainant.

STATE OF OKLAHOMA v. ATCHISON, TOPEKA
AND SANTA FE RAILWAY COMPANY.
BILL IN EQUITY.
No. 13, Original. Argued February 23, 1911.-Decided April 3, 1911.
While the territorial condition lasts the governmental power of Congress over a Territory and its inhabitants is exclusive and paramount, except as restricted by the Constitution.
An act of Congress, regulating railway charges of a railway in a Territory until a state government is formed and providing that thereafter such State shall have authority to regulate the charges, ceases
to be of force on the admission of such State into the Union; and
thereafter the State can fix such charges, subject only to the constitutional rights of .th6railway; and so held as to §§ 1-4 of the act
of July 4,1884, c. 179, 23 Stat:.73.
A State in its corporate capacity has no such interest in the rights of,
shippers as to entitle it to maintain an original action in this court
against the .carrier to restrain it from charging' unreasonable rates
within it
s jurisdiction. Louisiana v. Texas, 176 U. S. 1.
The Original jurisdiction conferred by the Constitution on this court
does not include every cause in which the State elects to make
• itself a party to vindicate the rights of its people or to enforce its
own laws or public policy against wrong done generally.

THE facts, which;,involve the construction of the provisions of tlfe Constitution of the United States conferring
original jurisdiction- on this court in controversies in
which a State is a party,. are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles West, Attorney General of the State of
.Oklahoma, for complainant:
The Attorney General of Oklahoma has authority to
file the bill. Leedy v. Brown, unreported (Okla.); State v.
Welbes, 73 N. W. Rep. 820; St. Louis & S. F. Ry. Co. v.
Hadley, 161 Fed. Rep. 419; United States v. San Jacinto
Tin Co., 125 U. S. 273; Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123;

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Complainant.

220 U. S.

act of June 18, 1910; rules made for Chisholm v. Georgia,
2 Dall. 479; Minnesota v. Northern Securities Co., 184
U. S. 199; Floridav. Anderson, 91 U. S. 667The State has justiciable rights here. Pennsylvania v.
Wheeling B. Co., 13 How. 519; South Carolina v. Georgia,
93 U. S.4; Wisconsin v. Duluth, 96 U. S.379; In re Debs,
158 U. S..564; Louisiana v. Texas, 176 U. S.1; Kansas v.
Colorado, 185 U. S. 141; Georgia v. Tennessee Co., 206
U. S.238; Hudson Water Co. v. McCarter, 209 U. S.355.
If equity should take jurisdiction for a part it will retain jurisdiction for complete relief and not force separation of efforts in suits at law. Uhited States v. Union
Pacific Co., 160 U. S. 1. Equity jurisdiction enjoins
illegal acts by corporations affecting public at large.
Attorney General v. Great Northern Co., 62 Eng. Rep.
Reprint, 337; Attorney General v. Delaware Ry. Co., 27
N. J. Eq. 631; Muncie Nat. Gas Co. V. Muncie (Ind.), 60
L. R. A. 822; Gas Light Co. v. Zanesille, 47 Oh. St. 35;
Attorney General v. Chicago &c. Co., 35 Wisconsin, 425;
Attorney General v. JamaicaPond Co., 123 Massachusetts,
361; Thompson, Corporations, 2d ed., §§ 5680, 5721.
As to injunctions to restrain excessive rates, see Tift v.
Southern Ry. Co., 123 Fed. Rep. 794, and cases there
citeda; State v. Pacific Express Co. (Neb.), 1i5 N. W. Rep.
619; Madison v. Gas Co. (Wis.), 108 N. W. Rep. 65.
The State can ask for a cancellation of the grant.
When a Territory becomes a State it may refuse recognition of anything that the State might have repudiated if
the grant had come from itself in the first instance.
Railroad Co. v. Baldwin, 103 U. S.431.
If the United States might have forfeited the right before statehood, that power belongs to the State now.
Van Wick v. Knevals, 106 U. S. 396. The grants in the
territory purchased from France made for a public purpose create a trust for the public. New Orleans v. United
States, 10 Pet. 662; see also 6 Missouri, 524; Mayor &c. v.

OKLAHOMA v. A., T. & SANTA FE RY.
220 U. S.

Argument for Complainant.

E8lava, 9 Porter, 577, 602;.Dunham v. Lamphere, 3 Gray,
268; Hart v. Burnett, 15 California, 530.
The grant made to the Southern Kansas Railroad was
for a public purpose.: Cherokee Nation v. Southern Kansas
Ry. Co., 135 U. S. 641. The United States before statehood might have declared a forfeiture either by legislative
action or judicial proceedings. United States v. Repentigny,
5 Wall. 211, 267; Utah N. & C. Ry. Co. v. Utah & C. Ry.
Co., 110 Fed. Rep. 879.
Before statehood the United States was a trustee for
the Territory. Hinman v. Warren, 6 Oregon, 409; Pollard's Lessee v.'Hagan, 3 How. 212, 220.
Until the primary disposal the authority of the United
States to control them iscomplete, but ends entirely at
the primary disposal thereof. David v. Rickabaugh, 32
Iowa,, 543; Farringtonv. Wilson, 29 Wisconsin, 383; Gibson v. Chouteau, 3 Wall.. 13; Irvine v. Marshall, 20 How.
558; State v. Bachelder, 5 Minnesota, 223; Shiveley v.
Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1.
Since. statehood, the United States has had no authority
to' cancel the grant or control the trust. United States v.
Illinois Central Ry. Co., 154 U. S. 225, 239. The United
States has no control over the internal commerce of a
State. Louisville vi Mississippi, 133 U. S. 587; Geer v.
Connecticut, 161 U. S. 519; Sands v. Manistee Co., 123
U. S. 288; Covington Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 145 U. S. 204.
The primary duty of the company is to the local business. Lake Shore R. R. Co. v. Ohio, 173'U. S; 285, 301;
Cleveland Company V. Illinois, 177 U. S. 521.
The grant is now an act of the State. § 2 Schedule
of Const. of Oklahoma.
The act of July 4, 1884, § 2, provides for a reversion to
the tribe itself, but all the Indian tribes have ceased to be
nations. A grant. to a railroad and its successors and assigns does not give the right to it to sell or assign its property to another corporation. Oregon R. R. Co. v. Ore-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.

Argument for Respondent.

220 U.S.

gonian R. R. Co., 130 U. S. 1; Thomas v. Railroad Co., 101
U. S. 1. The Southern Kansas Railway had no authority
to sell to the respondents. Briscoe v. Southern Kansas
Ry. Co., 40 Fed. Rep. 273.
The jurisdiction of this court if it exists should be applied. Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 404; California v.
Southern Pacific Ry. Co., 157 U. S. 229, 269.
The limitation does not end with the Government's
jurisdiction.
Laws may as well be enacted by reference as by reenacting specific words. Chenango Bridge Co. v. Binghamton Co., 3 Wall. 51; Schwenke v. Union D. & R. Co.,
7' Colorado, 512; S. C. 4 Pac. Rep. 905; In re Larkin, 1
Oklahoma, 53; Pridgeonv. United States, 153 U. S. 53.
Though Congress may regulate interstate business and
incorporate companies therefor, yet the police power of
the State remains intact. Louisville Co. v. Kentucky, 161
U. S. 702; Cleveland Co. v. Illinois, 177 U. S. 516.
Mr. Robert Dunlap, with whom Mr. Gardiner Lathrop
was on the brief, for respondent:
The General Government alone and not the State of
Oklahoma has the right to enforce obedience to the terms
of the grant found in one of its laws.
'The act of Congress in question granting the right to
construct, operate, and use the railway constructed thereunder was passed under the constitutional power of that
body to regulate commerce among the several States and
with the Indian tribes. Cherokee Nation V. Southern
Kansas Ry. Co., 135 U. S. 641; California v. Pacific R. R.
Co., 127 U. S. 39, 40; United States v. Southern Pacific
R. R. Co., 146 U. 5. 570, 606, 607. Congressional authority to institute proceedings to revoke or forfeit the
grant is necessary. United States v. Northern Pacific Ry.
Co., 177 U. S. 440; Californiav. Southern Pacific Co.; 157
U. S. 229; Oregon v. Hitchcock, 202 U. S. 60, 68, 69.

OKLAHOMA v. A., T. & SANTA FE RY.
220 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

The provision of the act of Congress referred to in the
bill in respect to freight rates ceased to be operative on
the creation of the Territory of Oklahoma with reference
to the lines embraced therein and certainly on the creation of the State.
In any event a bill in equity does not lie since mandamus is the appropriate remedy at law to enforce the performance of a public. duty. Dillon on Municipal Corporations, 4th ed., §§ 826, 906; In re Sawyer, 124 U. S. 200;
Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. United States, 189 U. S.274;
Attorney General v. Utica Insurance Co., 2 Johnson Ch.
371.
The main purpose of the bill, however, seems to be to
secure a forfeiture of the rights and privileges granted by
Congress, which could only be accomplished or effected in
quo warranto proceedings on the part of the United States.
The bill does not set up a controversy between the
State and the railway company justiciable in this court
under the exercise of its original jurisdiction. Louisiana
v. Texas, 176 U. S.1.
The State is not the 'successor of the. General Government. The authority of Congress in the premises is still
effective. The power of Congress was exercised not merely
over a Territory or only as of a local nature, but under the
power to regulate interstate commerce, a. matter of na-*
tional concern. Wilmington R. R. Co. v. Reid, 13 Wall.
264, 268; Gulf & Ship Island R. R. Co. v. Hewes, 183 U. S.
77; Luxton v. North River Bridge Co., 153 U. S.525, 529,
533; Southern Pacific R. R. Co. v. United States, 183 U. S.
526, 527; Railroad Co. v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5, 34, 35,
36.
The State is not entitled to the equitable relief sought.
The provision of the act of Congress relied upon ceased to
-be applicable with statehood. In respect to any claim of
forfeiture of rights granted by Congress no case ispresented, and, in any event, the Federal Government, being

282

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

the sovereign power. which granted the rights, could alone
insist upon a forfeiture.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an original suit in this court by the State of
Oklahoma against the Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6
Railway Company, a corporation of Kansas.
The case as made by the allegationsof the bill, in connection, with acts of Congress and with the constitution and
laws of Oklahoma, is substantially as will be now stated.
The treaty of April 30, 1803, between the United States
and France, by which the Territory of Louisiana was ceded
to the United States, provided that the inhabitants of
that Territory should be incorporated into the Union and
admitted as soon as possible,, according to the principles
of the Federal Constitution, to the enjoyment of all the
rights, advantages and immunities of citizens of the
United States; in the meantime to be maintained and protected in the free enjoyment of their liberty, property and
the religion they profess. Art. III. The State of Oklahoma was formed out of-a part of this ceded Territory.
By an act of Congress of July 4, 1884, the Southern
Kansas Railway Company of Kansas was empowered to
locate, construct,, own, equip, operate, use and maintain
a railway, telegraph and telephone line
through, the
Indian Territory, over a specified route. The act forbade
the company to charge "the inhabitants of said Territory
a greater rate of freight than the rate authorized by the
laws of the State of Kansak for services or transportation
of the same kind" and provided that."passenger rates on
said railway shall not exceed three cents per mile." And
Congress '.expressly reserved the right to regulate the
charges for freight and passengers on the railway as well
as messages on telegraph 'and telephone lines, "until a
State government or governments shall exist in said Terri-

OKLAHOMA v. A., T. & SANTA FE RY.
220 U. S.

283

Opinion of the Court.

tory, within the limits of which said railway or a part
thereof shall be located; and then such State-government
or governments shall be authorized to fix and regulate the
cost of transportation of persons and freights within their
respective limits by said railway." Congress also reserved "the right to fix and regulate at all times the cost
of such transportation by said railway or said company
whenever such transportation shall extend from one State
into another, or shall extend into more than one State:
Provided, however, That the 'rate of such transportation of
passengers, local or interstate, shall not exceed the rate
above expressed." §§ 1, 4, c. 179, 23 Stat. 73, 74.
The above grant was accepted by the Southern Kansas
Railway Company, and the road now controlled by the
appellee, 'the Atchison, Tokepa and Santa F6 Railway
Company, in Oklahoma, is operated under that grant.
The bill alleged "that. ever since the defendant company
took over the operation of said. line of railway under said
grant it had contifiuously violated-the above condition, in
that it has. charged the inhabitants of said Territory a
greater rate of freight than that authorized by the laws of
Kansas for services or transportation of the same kind;"
and that the company's tariffs of freight charges show in
detail said excessive charges. After setting forth the rates
charged in Oklahoma and Kansas, respectively, for carrying, for the same distances, lime, cement,' plaster, brick,
crude oil and refined oil, the bill proceeds: "That the
State of Oklahoma at this time has about two million' inhabitants, is developing and building towns, villages and
individual farmhouses, and that lime, cement, plaster,
brick and stone are very essential to its growth; that at
this time in the State of Oklahoma there are very large
and extensive petroleum oil wells, and the manufacture or
refining of the same is an industry continually growing in
said State; that the transportation rates on crude and refined oil, lime, cement, plaster, brick and stone are very

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

important and essential to tlie development of said State;
and, that the violation by said respondent rof the said
conditions of said grant is a menace to the future of said
State." The State. further alleged .that if the defendant
was permitted further to operate the railroad in violation
of:the condition of the grant it would be a hindrance to
the growth of the State, as well as an injury to the property rights of its inhabitants.
The relief asked was, that the grant contained in the
above act of Congress be canceled and, the property
granted by it confirmed and decreed to be in the State of
Oklahoma as cestui que trust; 'that the defendant be perpetual ly enj.oined and rdstrained, and, pending the determination of this action, be enjoined and restrained
from charging the inhabitants of the State of Oklahoma
a greater rate of freight than that authorized by the laws
of Kansas for services or transportation of the same kind,
and from charging "'for lime, .cement,. plaster, brick, stone,
crude and refined oil, the rates specified in its tariff in so
far as the same ard greater 'than those authorized for like
transportation by the laws of Kansas until the determination of this cause; and that for the continual violation of
the terms of the grant it be perpetually enjoined and
restrained from operating a railroad in the state of Oklahoma. The bill also contains a prayer for such further or
different relief as may be required by the nature of. the
case and be agreeable to equity and good, conscience.
The railroad company' filed a 'demurrer upon the ground
that the bill did not show that the State was entitled to
the relief asked nor set forth any controversy between the
State and the defendant within the original jurisdiction
of this court.
The difficulty in the way of granting the relief asked by
the State is, in our'judgment, insurmountable. The act of
1884 appears to have had in view, primarily, the protection of the inhabitants of the Indian Territory from being

OKLAHOMA v. A., T. & SANTA FE RY.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

charged unreasonable rates by the railway company when
using its right of way through that Territory. Congress
undoubtedly supposedthat it would be safe, at least for a
time, to adopt as a test of the reasonableness of rates in
Oklahoma, on domestic shipments, those which Kansas
had prescribed as between its people and the corporation
it had created; in other words, the inhabitants of the
Territory were to have the same rights, in respect to railroad rates, as Kansas had prescribed for its corporations
and people. But that the railway company might not act
unjustly towards the inhabitants of the Territory, Congress reserved the right to regulate charges to be made by
the railway company for freight -and passengers transported on the railway in question. This, of course, Congress could have done without regard to any rates allowed
by or in Kansas at any particular time; for, while the
territorial conditions lasted, the governmental power of
Congress over the Territory and its inhabitants was exclusive and paramount, there being no restrictions upon
the exercise of that power, except such as were imposed by
the Supreme Law of the Land. It is to be observed, however, that the regulations prescribed by the act of Congress
were to exist and be in force "until a State government or
governments shall exist in said Territory, within the limits
of which said railway or a part thereof shall be located;
and then such State government 'or governments shall be
authorized to fix and regulate the cost of transportation
of persons and freight within their respective limits by
said railway." So, when Oklahoma was organized as a
State and admitted into the Union "on an equal footing
with the original States" (34 Stat. 267, 271, § 4, pt. 1)
•the clause in the act of 1884, prescribing the Kansas- rates
as the test for rates that might be charged against the
,inhabitants of the Territory, necessarily ceased to be of
any force in the State, and the whole subject of rates in
domestic or local business passed under the full control of

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.

Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

the State in its corporate capacity, subject, of course, to

the fundamental condition .that it should authorize only
such rates as were legal and not inconsistent with the
constitutional rights of the railway company. If after
.Oklahoma became a State the company still charged the
Kansas rates on local business in Oklahoma, and if, those
rates would -have been illegal under any state regulations,
or were, in themselves, unreasonable and purely arbitrary,
a controversy, in the constitutional sense, would have
arisen between each shipper and the" company, which
could have been determined by suit brought by the shipper
in the proper state court, or even in the proper Federal
court,, where the controversy, by reason of the grounds
alleged by the shipper, was one of which the latter court,
under the statutes regulating the jurisdiction of the Federal courts, could take judicial cognizance. ,But, plainly,
the State, in its corporate capacity, would have no such
interest in a controversy of 'that kind as would entitle it
to vindicate and enforce the rights of a particular shipper
or shippers, and, iricidentally, of all shippers, by an original suit brought in its own name, in this court, to restrain
the company from applying the Kansas rates, as such to
shippers generally in the local business of Oklahoma.The opposite view must necessarily rest upon the ground
that the Constitution when conferring original jurisdiction on thiscourt" in all cases affecting ambassadors and
other public ministers and consuls and those in which a
Stats is a party" (Art. III, § 1), intended to include any
and every judicial proceeding of whatever nature which
the State may choose to institute, in this court, for the
purpose of enforcing its laws, although the State may have
no direct interest in the particular property or-rights immediately affected or to be affected by the'alleged Violation of such laws.. In the present case, the State seeks to
enjoin the defendant company from charging more than
the Kansas rates on the transportation of lime, cement,

OKLAHOMA v. A., T. & SANTA FE RY.
220 U. S.

287

Opinion of the Court.

plaster, brick, stone, crude and refined oil. But the State,
as such, in its governmental capacity, is not engaged in
their sale or transportation, and has no property interest
in such commodities. It seeks only, as between the railway company and shippers, by a general, comprehensive
decree to enforce certain rates and "to compel the railway
company to respect the rights of all of the people of Oklahoma who may have occasion to ship such commodities
over the railway.
Upon this general: subject the case of Louisiana v.
Texas, 176 U. S. 1, is instructive. The State of Louisiana,
by an original suit in this court against the State of Texas,
her Governor and Health Officer, sought to restrain the
latter State from enforcing by its officers certain quarantine regulmtions it had established, which Louisiana alleged were illegal and discriminative against it and injurious to the trade and business of itspeoplq, particularly
interstate commerce as conducted between New Orleans
and Texas. There'was a demurrer to the bill upon these
grounds: 1. That, within the meaning of the Constitution of the United States, the controversy was not one
between Louisiana and Texas. 2. That the controversy
was between Texas or her officers and certain persons in
Louisiana engaged in interstate commerce, and did not
concern Louisiana as an aggregate, corporate body or
State. 3. That by the suit brought in this court, Louisiana was only lending its name to certain individuals in
New Orleans, who were the real parties in interest.
4. That it appeared from the face of the bill that "the
State of Louisiana, in her right of sovereignty, is seeking
to maintain this suit for the redress of the supposed wrongs
of her citizens in.regard to interstate commerce, while
under the Constitution and laws the said State possesses
no'such sovereignty as empowers her to bring an original
suit in this court for such purpose." 5. That "no property right of the State of Louisiana is in any manner af-

OCTOBER .TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

fected by the quarantine complained of, nor is any su~h
property right involved 'inthis suit as would give this
court original jurisdiction of this cause."
This court, speaking by Chief Justice Fuller, after re=
ferring to the provisions of the Constitution enumerating
the cases and controversies to which the judicial power
of the United States extended 'and of which the Circuit
Courts of the'United States could take original cognizance,
and to numerous adjudged cases, said: "In order then to
maintain jurisdiction of this bill of complaint as 'against
the State of Texas, it must appe~r that the controversy to
be determined is a controversy arising 'directly between
the State of Louisiana and the State of Texas, and not a
controversy in the vindication of.grievances of particular
individuals. . . . Inasmuch as the vindication of the
freedom of interstate commerce is not committed to the
State of Louisiana, and that State is not engaged in such
commerce, the cause of action must be regarded not as
involving any infringement of the powers of the 'State of
'Louisiana, or any special injury to her property, but as
asserting that the State is entitled to seek relief in this
way because the matters ,complained of affect her citizens
at large. Nevertheless if the case*stated is.
not one presenting a controversy between these.States the exerci§ of
original jurisdiction by this court as against the 'State of
Texas cannot be maintained., .
. But in order that
a controversy between States, justiciable in this court,
can be held to exist, something more must be put forward
than that the-citizens of one State are injured by the maladministration of the laws of another. The States cannot
make war, or enter into treaties,. though they may, with
the consent of Congress, make compacts and agreements.
When there is no agreement, whose breach might create it,
a controversy between States does not arise unless the
action- complained of is state action, and acts of state
officers in abuse .or excess of their powers cannot be laid
'

OKLAHOMA v. A.. T. & SANTA FE RY.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

hold of as in themselves committing one State to a distinct collision with a sister State."
These doctrines, we think, control this case and require
its dismissal as not being within the original jurisdiction
of this court as' defined by the Constitution. Under a
contrary view that jurisdiction could be invoked by a
State, bringing an original suit in this court against foreign
corporations and citizens of other States, •whenever the
State thought such corporations and citizens of -other
States were acting in violation of its laws to the injury of
its people generally or in the aggregate; although, an injury, in violation of law, to the property' or rights of
particular persons through the action of foreign corporations or citizens of. States could be reached, without the
intervention of the State, by suits instituted by the persons directly or immediately injured.
We are of opinion that the words, in the Constitution,
conferring original jurisdiction on this court, in a suit "in
which a State shall be a party;" are not to be interpreted
as conferring such jurisdiction in every cause in which the
State elects to make itself strictly a party plaintiff of
record and seeks not to protect its own property, but only
to vindicate the wrongs of some of its people or to enforce
its own laws or public policy against wrongdoers, generally.
Other questions of interest and importance have been
elaborately discussed by counsel, but we deem it unnecessary to extend this opinion by an examination of them.
What has been said 'isquite sufficient to show that the
demurrer is well taken and that the bill must, in any
event, be dismissed for want of jurisdiction in this court
to entertain it by original suit on behalf or in the name of
the State.
Dismissed.

VOL. ccxx-19

