UNITED STATES v. RIMER.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. RIMER.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 158.

Argued April 26, 1911.-Decided May 15, 1911.

When certiorari is granted on the basis that the decision below involved principles of far-readhing effect and overthrew settled administrati, e construction, and it appears on the argument that the
decision does not deal wih such principles or have such effect, and
that the action of the court below was not, either as to its character
or importance, within the scope of the grant of power given by the
Judiciary Act of 1891 to review by certiorari, the writ will be dismissed.

facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
in regard to the scope of the grant of power under the
Judiciary Act of 1891 to review judgments of the Circuit
Courts of Appeal, axe stated in the opinion.
THE

The Solicitor General for the United States.
There was no appearance or brief filed for the respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The petition presented by the United States in this case
for the allowance of a writ of certiorari, which was not opposed, proceeded upon the basis that the decision below
involved a principle concerning the collection of internal
revenue taxes of far-reaching importance, and which if
thereafter applied in accordance with what it was urged
was the rule established by the lower court w6uld over-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

throw practices prevailing as to the collection of internal
revenue taxes for a long period of time, founded upon a
well settled administrative construction, and, thus produce at least great confusion.
As the record at least prima facie tended to sustain these
contentions of the Government, the writ of certiorari was
granted. With candor, in the argument at bar, while
perspicuously discussing the. legal propositions which it
was deemed were involved when the certiorari was petitioned for,. the Government conceded that a closer scrutiny
of the record made it exceedingly doubtful whether the
action of the court below, when accurately tested, dealt
with the principle, which, it was deemed, rendered the
granting of the writ necessary. Coming to consider the
record, we conclude that it establishes that the doubt suggested by the Government is well founded, and, therefore,
if we were to consider and decide the case we would but
.review the action of the court below in regard to a question
as to which, under the Judiciary Act of 1891, the action of
the court was final, and which, neither from its character
or importance, was within the scope of-the grant of power
to review by certiorari.
After giving the matter most careful consideration because of the precedent as to future cases which must arise
-from the action we take in this, we have concluded that,
under the conditions which we have 'stated, our duty is not
to pass upon the merits of the case,.but to dismiss the writ
of certiorari. Our order will therefore be
Writ of certioraridismissed.

