C., B. & Q. RY. v. UNITED STATES.
220 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

CHICAGO, BURLINGTON & QUINCY RAILWAY
COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 329. Argued March 9, 1911.-Decided May 15, 1911.
Under the Safety Appliance Acts of March 2, 1893, c. 196, 27 Stat.
531, April 1, 1896, c. 87, 29 Stat. 85, and March 2, 1903, c. 976,
32 Stat. 943, there is imposed an absolute duty on the carrier and
the penalty cannot be escaped by exercise of reasonable care.
This court in St. Louis, I. M. & S. Railway Co. v.Taylor, 210 U. S.
281, considered and determined the scope and effect of the Safety
Appliance Acts and the degree of care required by the carrier, and
the question is not open to further discussion, as this court should
not disturb a Construction which has been widely accepted and
acted upon by the courts.
For this court to give a construction fo an act of Congress contrary to
one previously given would cause uncertainty if not mischief in the
administration of law in Federal courts, and, having placed an interpretation on the Safety Appliance Acts, this court will adhere
thereto until Congress by amendment changes the rule announced
in St. Louis, I. M; & S. Railway Co. v. Taylor, supra.
An action for penalties under the Safety Appliance Acts is a civil, and
not a criminal one, and the enforcement of such penalties is not governed by considerations controlling prosecution- of criminal offenses.
Congress has unquestioned power to declare an Qffense and to exclude
the elements of knowledge and due diligence from the inquiry as to
its commission.
170 Fed. Rep. 556, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the Safety
Appliance Acts, and the duties and liabilities of carriers
to equip their cars with safety appliances, are stated in the
opinion.

Mr. Ralph, W. Breckenridge, with whom Mr. Charles
J. Greene was on the brief,. for petitioner:
The Government cannot recover. It appears not only

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Petitioner.

220 U. S.

that the Railway Company did not know that its cars
were defective tested by the act, and there was no intention to offend-but that the company exercised reasonable care to keep its cars repaired. St. Louis, I. M.
& S. Ry. Co. v. Taylor, 210 U. S. 281, does not discfiss
the liability of railway companies to the Government,
whether or not they comply with the terms of the act.
Whether or not all that the court said was necessary to a
decision of the case then before the court, it was intended
to apply only to the relation of master and servant, and
ought not to be interpreted otherwise nor in any event
applied to other situations.
The Safety Appliance Acts do not disclose the intent
of Congress to make railroad companies insurers of the
safety of their emplpy6s.
Section 8 creates a new relationship as between master
and servant only to the extent that a servant is not required to assume a defective condition of equipment when
known to him, as a hazard of his employment. Congress
intended that the right of recovery for an injury should
depend upon the negligence of the railroad company and
the freedom from negligence of the injured person.
In this case no injury had befallen anyone, there was
absence of intent, and the offense was established. by construction.
Although a penalty can be recovered in a civil action,
Hepner v. United States, 213 U. S. 103,-if the statute upon
which it is grounded is a penal statute, the defendant is entitled to have actual ignorance of the defective conditions,
exercise of reasonable care to prevent the same, and absence of intention to .violate that statute, considered as a
defense.
There was no indictment, but the court treated the petition to recover the penalty as though it were an information authorized by the criminal procedure in the Federal
courts, and it is not open to the United States, as a litigant,

C., B. & Q. RY. v. UNITED STATES.
220 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

to claim any advantage based upon such a technical consideration as that involved in the mere form of the action it
selected. To select a form of procedure that forecloses a
defense is abhorrent to the sense of justice. Huntingtonv.
Attrill, 146 U. S. 657, 668.
A penalty is none the less a penalty and the statute
which imposes it is none the less a penal or criminal statute
because the penalty may be recovered in an action which
is civil in its form. The difference between the civil and
criminal prosecution of corporations is slight. United
States v. Illinois Central Ry. Co., 156 Fed. Rep. 182; Ex
parte Kentucky v. Dennison, 24 How. 66.; United States v.
Reisinger, 128 U. S. 308; Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S.
6i6, 634; Iowa v. C., B. & Q. R. R. Co., 37 Fed. Rep. 497;
Wisconsin v. Pelican Ins. Co., 127 U. S. 265; Grafton v.
United States, 206 U. S. 333, 353; Moore v. State of Illinois,
14 How. 13; Shick v. United States, 195 U. S. 65.
The construction of the Safety Appliance Act, pursuant
to which penalties have been adjudged against the Railway Company, violates the social compact. United States
v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 77, 95; United States v. Lacher,
134 U. S. 624.
There can be no constructive offenses. Todd v. United
States, 158 U. S.278, 282; Calder v. Bull, 3 Dallas, 386;
The Federalist, No. 84; Mc Veigh v. United States, 11 Wall.
259, 267; Loan Association v. Topeka, 20 Wall* 655, 662.
No tyranny could be more intolerable and hateful and
no.power more despotic than the punishment of an American citizen or corporation for something which the accused
did not know had occurred, and was using diligence to
avoid.
For the history of the original act adopting safety appliances on railroads engaged in interstate commerce, see
Report House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce, 52nd Congress, to which had been referred sundry
bills on the subject, on July 8, 1892 (Vol. 23, Cong. Rec.
VOL. ccxx-36

562,

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Petitioner.

220 U.S.

pt. 6, p. 5925); H. R. bill 9350, with recommendation that
it pass. The committee bill was passed under suspension
of the rules without debate. 23 Cong. Rec. 5925, 5927.
After the initial proceedings had in the House on July 9,
1892; H. R. bill 9350, was referred to the Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce, 23 Cong. Rec. 5932,
July 21, and the Senate Committee reported the bill with
a substitute. Rec. 6483. The report of the Senate Committee was presented July 22, 1892, p. 6552, and appears in
Vol. 24, pp. 1246, 1247, and see address on February 6,
of Senator. Cullom, chairman of the Senate Committee on
Interstate Commerce, 24 Cong. Rec. 1247, 1248, 1249,
1273, 1275, 1287; see also remarks of Senator (now Mr.
Chief Justice White), 24 Cong. Rec. 1277, 1280, 1284; and
of Senator Hoar, 24 Cong. Rec. 1287-1288.
The substitute bill of the Senate Committee passed the
Senate February 11, 1893, 24 Cong. Rec. 1486; February 27, 1893, the House concurred in the Senate amendments (Cong. Rec., Vol. 24, pp. 2247, 2248); and the bill
received executive approval on March 2, 1893 (COng. Rec.,
Vol. 24, p. 2457).
If the Safety Appliance Act prescribes a rule or regulation
for cars that were equipped as the law required at the commencement of their journey and which were inspected for
-defects in their equipment at the repair station last preceding the one where defects were found, and which were
crippled by unavoidable accident en route, such regulation
rests upon judicial construction and judicial legislation,
for it cannot be deduced from the arguments of the distinguished gentlemen who took part in the discussion in
the House and Senate upon this act, prior to its passage.
There can be no orime or offense where there is no injury.
In none of the cases complained of was any injury suffered
by any person. 2 Wilson's Works (Andrews' ed.), 338.
No criminal offense can be committed where the intention.
to do or permit the wrongful act is wanting. 1 Bishop on

C., B. & Q. RY. v. UNITED STATES.
220 U. S.

.563

Argument for the United States.

Criminal Law, 5th ed.,'§ 345; Peoplev. White, 34 California,
183; Furley v. Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co., 90 Iowa, 146;
Schmidt v. State, 78 Indiana, 41; Hunter v. State, 101
Indiana, 241; McLain on- Criminal Law, § 128; United
States v. Illinois Central R. R. Co., 156 Fed. Rep. 182; S.C.,
170 Fed. Rep. 542; Pettibone v. United States, 148 U. 'S.
197; Reynolds v. United States, 98'U.. S. 145.
One cannot be convicted of a crime based upon an a'ccidental occurrence. Barlot 'v. United States, 7 Pet. 404;
United States v. Hess, 124 U. S. 483; United States v. Cruikshank, 92U. S. 542; Davis v. United States, 160 U. S.469,
484; Felton v.. United States, 96 U, S. 699.
Even in cases involving no moral turpitude, there must
be an intention to do the act which constitutes a violation
of law. Armour Packing Co. v. United States, 153 Fed.
Rep. 1; S. C., 209 U. S. 56, 85..
No question is raised here of a mistake of law there was
not only no purpose to do or permit the prohibited thing,
but an intent not to do it, and an honest effort by the exercise of reasonable diligence, to obey the law, and prevent
the very conditions which occurred, and which were in fact
incidental to and accidents of, the movement of the cars.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Fowler, with -whom Mr.
Barton Corneau, special assistant to the Attorney General,
was on the brief, for the. United States:
The act of March 2, i893 (c. 196, 27 Stat. 530), as
amended by the act of March 2, 1903 (c. 976, 32 Stat 943),
makes it unlawful for any car to be hauled on a railroad
engaged in interstate commerce, with safety appliances
not in a usable condition; and § 6 of said former act, which
provides for the recovery by the United States of a penalty
of $100 for a violation of any of the provisions of the act,
likewise extends to the maintenance of appliances, and in
case of violation makes the liability of the company for
such penalty absolute, regardless of whether the statute

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for the United States.

220 U. S.

was violated with the knowledge of any employ6 of the
company or not.
The provisions of the statute other than § 6 require that
the appliances be maintained in a usable condition, and
said section should be applied to them as thus construed.
36 Cyc. 1183; 2 Lewis, Suth. Stat. Con., 2d ed., § 337;
Endlich, Inter. Stat., § 332; United States v. Keitel, 211
U. S. 370, 392.
Section 6 should not within itself be strictly construed.
United States v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 76; United States v.
Lacher, 134 U. S. 624, 628.
When a penal statute merely imposes a pecuniary penalty it is construed less strictly than where the rule was
invoked in favorem vie. Endlich, Inter. Stat., § 334; 2
Lewis, Suth. Stat. Con., § 518.
When the section is remedial in its nature, as well as
penal, it is to be liberally construed to effect the object
which Congress had in view when making it. National
Bank v, Dearing, 91 U. S. 29, 35; Ordway v. Central Nat.
Bank, 47. Maryland, 217, 241.
Section 6 certainly does not, by express language, except a violation of the statute which was not intentionally
or knowingly done, nor is there anything therein which
can permit such an exception by implication.
. There is no general principle of statutory construction
which warrants, or will permit, the reading into § 6 of
the statute the requirement that the violation of the other
provisions shall be intentionally or knowingly done, in
order to create the liability to the United States provided
for in said section. This proceeding is a civil one. Hepner
v. United States, 213 U. S. 103; Oceanic Navigation Co. v.
Stranahan,214 U.. S. 320.
This is not a penal statute, as it does not impose punishment for an offense committed against the State which the
executive has the power to pardon. Huntington v. Attrill, 146 U. S. 657, 667.

C., B. & Q. RY. v. UNITED STATES.
220 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

One can commit a crime or an offense even though he
inflict no injury thereby upon anyone.
Offenses created by statute can be committed, though
the intention to commit the wrongful act, and the knowledge of such act, be wanting. Shevlin-Carpenter Co. v.
State of Minnesota, 218 U S. 57; Regina v. Woodrow, 15
Meeson & Welsby, 403, 417; Commonwealth v. Emmons, 98
Massachusetts, 6, 8; People v. Snowberger, 113 Michigan,
56; People v. Roby, 52 Michigan; 577; Edgar v. The State,
37 Arkansas, 219, 223; Crampton v. The State, 37 Arkansas,
108; State v. Sase, 6 So. Dak. 212; State v. Baltimore &
S. Steam Co., 13 Maryland, 181, 187, 188; Halstead v.
State, 41 N. J. Law, 552, 591; 3 Greenleaf, 16th ed., § 21;
Wharton on Crim. Law, 8th ed., § 88.
Knowledge is not an essential ingTedient of a violation
of the United States revenue laws, unless the statute either
expressly or by implication requires knowledge. Unitqd
States v. Bayaud, 16 Fed. Rep. 376, 384, 385; United States
v. Adler, Fed. Case, No. 14,424; Contra, 1 Bishop, New
Criminal Law, 8th ed., §§ 287, 291, and note 6 to § 303a.
But see § 291,. par. 2.
The decisions of this court cited by counsel for plaintiff
in error do not support their contention. See Barlow v.
United States, 7 Pet. 404; Felton v. United States, 96 U. S.
699, 700, 702; Reynolds v. United States, 98 U. S. 145;
Commonwealth v. Thomas, 11 Allen, 33; United States v.
Hess, 124 U. S. 483, 486.
The general policy that Congress had in view in passing
this act, excludes the idea that it intended that knowledge
of or intent to violate the provisions of the act should be
necessary to create liability; and in the absence of a universal rule of construction, the provisions of § 6 of the act
should be enforced as written.
With the exceptions of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
Sixth Circuit, in the case of United States v. Illinois Central Railroad Co. (170 Fed. Rep. 542), of Judge Evans in

566

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for the United States.

220 U. S.

the trial court in the same case (156 Fed. Rep. 182), of
Judge Sater in charging the jury in United States v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. (Appx. Kent's Dig. of Decisions
under the Federal Safety Appliance Act, p. 271), and of
Judge Cochran in charging the jury in United States v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. (Appx. Kent's Dig., 277, 282), all
the Federal courts who have had before them actions
brought under. § 6 of this act to recover penalties have
'held that the statute imposes absolute liability upon the
companies to not only equip the cars with safety appliances, but to keep such appliances in good repair, and that
to haul a-car with any of its appliances out of repair rendered the company liable for the prescribed penalty.
The following are the cases decided by Federal courts
in which the statute has been so applied in penal cases:
United States v. Denver & . G. R. Co., 163 Fed. Rep. 519;
Chicago, M. & S. P. R. Co. v. United States, 165 Fed. Rep.
423; United States v. Southern Pac.Co., 169 Fed. Rep. 407;
Chicago, B. & Q.R. Co. v. United States, 170 Fed. Rep. 556,
557; Atchison, T. & S. F. R. Co. v. United States (twocases), 172 Fed. Rep. 1021; Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v.
United States,. 168 Fed Rep. 175; Norfolk & Western R.
Co. v. United States, 177 Fed' Rep. 623; United States
v. Phila. & R. R. Co., 162 Fed. Rep. 403; United States v.
.-Phila. & R. R. Co., 162 Fed. Rep. 405; United States v.
Pennsylvania R. Co., 162 Fed. Rep. 408; United States,
v. Lehigh Valley R. Co., 162 Fed. Rep..410; United States v.,
Erie R. Co., 166 Fed. Rep. 352; United States v. Wheeling
& L. E. R. Co., 167. Fed. Rep. 198;" United States v. Atch.,
T. & S. F. R. Co., 167 Fed. Rep. 696; UnitedStatesv. Southern Pacific Co., 167 Fed. Rep. 699; United States v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 170 Fed. Rep. 456; United States v.
Southern Ry. Co., 170 F.d. Rep. 1014; United States v.
Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., App. Kent's Dig. 274; United
States v. Atlantic Coast Line, App. Kent's Dig. 267; United
States V. Southern Ry. Co., App. Kent's Dig. 270; United

C., B. & Q. RY. v. UNITED STATES.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

States v. Pennsylvania R. Co., App. Kent's Dig. 286;
United States v. Southern Pacific Co., App. Kent's Dig. 288. •
Absolute liability for loss or damages, though such loss
or damages cannot be avoided by the utmost degree of
diligence, has always in certain instances been recognized
both at common law and under many statutes. Wood on
Master and Servant, 2d ed., § 277; St. Louis, I. M. & S. R.
Co. v. Mathews, 165 U. S. 1; Jones v. Brim, 165 U. S. 180.
Congress has the constitutional power to impose a penalty for violation of the act, without the presence of knowledge of its violation, or the intent to violate the same.
Shevlin-Carpenter Co. v. Minnesota, 218 U. S. 57, 64, 65,
67, 69.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
Two separate actions were brought by the Government
in the District Court of the United States for the District
of Nebraska against the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy
Railroad Company, an Iowa corporation engaged as a
common carrier in interstate commerce. The object of
each action was to recover certain penalties which, the
United States alleged, had been incurred by the company
for violations, in several specified instances, of the Safety
Appliance Acts of Congress. March 2, 1893, c. 196, 27
Stat. 531; April 1, 1896, c. 87, 29 Stat. 85; March 2, 1903,
c. 976, 32 Stat. 943. By consent of the parties and by order of court the two actions were consolidated and tried together. At the trial the court directed a verdict of guilty
as to each cause of action, and a judgment for $300 was
rendered for the Government in one case and for $100 in
the other.
By the original act of March 2, 1893 (27 Stat. 531), it
was provided that from and after the first day of January,
eighteen hundred and ninety-eight,. it should be unlawful
for any common carrier engaged inia moving interstate

568

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

traffic by railroad to use on its line any locomotive engine
not equipped with a power driving-wheel brake and appli-.
ances for operating the train-brake system, or, after that
date, to run any train in such traffic that had nof a sufficient number of cars in it so equipped with power or train
brakes that the engineer on the locomotive drawing such
train can control its speed without requiring brakemen to
use the common hand brake for that purpose.
The second section provided "that on and after the first
day :of January, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, it
shall be unlawful for any such common carrier to haul or
permit to'be hauled or used on its line any car used in moving interstate traffic not equipped with couplers coupling
automatically by impact, and which can be uncoupled
without the necessity of men going between the ends of
the cars." Section 6, as amended April 1, 1896, c. 87,
29 Stat. 85, provided that any such common carrier using
a locomotive engine, running a train, or hauling or permitting to be hauled or used on its line any car in violation of
any of the provisions of this act "shall be liable to a penalty of one.hundred dollars for each and every such violation, to be recovered in a suit or suits to be brought by the
United States district attorney in the District Court of
the United States having jurisdiction in the locality where
. . . Prosuch violation shall have been committed.
vided, That nothing in this act contained shall apply to
trains composed of four-wheel cars or to trains composed
of eight-wheel standard logging cars where the height of
such car from, top of rail to center of coupling does not
exceed twenty-five inches, or to locomotives used in hauling such trains when such cars or locomotives are exclusively used for the transportation of logs."
The eighth section is in these words: "That any employ6
of any such common carrier who may be injured by any
locomotive, car, or train in use contrary to the provision of
this act shall not be deemed thereby to have assumed the

C., B. & Q. RY. v. UNITED STATES.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

risk thereby occasioned, although continuing in the employment of such carriek after the unlawful use of such
locomotive, car, or train had been brought to his knowledge."
After referring to various cases holding that the omission
of Congress to make knowledge and diligence on the part
of the carrier ingredients of the act condemned, the trial
court said: "Its omission was intentional, in order that
this statute might induce such a high degree of care and
diligence on the part of the railway company as to necessitate a change in the manner of inspecting appliances, and
to protect the lives and the safety of its employ~s, provided the accident occurs from a defective appliance such
as is designated in this act. And for these reasons the jury
will be peremptorily instructed to return a verdict for the
Government on each count of the indictment." In the
Circuit Court of Appeals that judgment was affirmed.
In the course of its opinion the latter court said: "The
cause is simplified by the concession of counsel for the
Railway Company that there was evidence tending to
prove the defective condition of each of the four cars as
charged, and that they were all being used at the time
stated in the several counts in hauling interstate commerce
or as a part of a train containing other cars which were
doing so. The sole contention is that, notwithstanding
this concession, inasmuch as it appears by the proof that
defendant did not know its cars were out of repair and had
no actual intention at the time to violate the law, but on
the contrary had exercised reasonable care to keep them
in repair by the usual inspections, it is not liable in this
action. Learned counsel concede, what is undoubtedly
true, that sustaining their contention involves a reversal
of the doctrine unanimously declared by this court [Circuit Court of Appeals for Eighth Circuit] in United States
v. Atchison, T. & S. R. Ry. Co., 163 Fed. Rep. 517, and
United States v. Denver & Rio Grande R. R. Co., 163 Fed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

Rep. 519, and a disregard of What they call the dictum of
the Supreme Court in St. Louis, I. M. & S. Ry. Co. v.
Taylor, 210 U. S. 281; and they accordingly invite us to
enter upon a reconsideration of the questions so decided.
It was held by us, and in our opinion it was necessarily
held by the Supreme Court in the Taylor Case, that the
duty-of railroads under the statute in question is'an absolute duty and not one which is discharged by te exercise
of reasonable care and diligence,_ Since those cases were
decided, this court in the case of Chi., Mil. & St. P. Ry. Co.
v. United States, 165 Fed. Rep. 423, has again approved of
their doctrine, and the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Fourth Circuit in the case of Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co.
v. United States, decided March 1, 1909, 168 Fed. Rep. 175,
in considering this question, made a review of pertinent
authorities, and particularly of the cases of this court as
well as of the Taylor Case, and in an exhaustive opinion
reached the same conclusion that we did. . . . The act
made it tinlawful for railroads to use cars not equipped as
therein provided and thereby imposed -a duty upon railroad companies to equip cars accordingly. This was by
clear and unequivocal language of the lawmaker made an
absolute duty not dependable upon the exercise of diligence
or the existence of any wrong intent on the part of the
railroad companies. Whether a defendant carrier knew its
cars were out of order or not is immaterial. Its duty was
to know they were in order and kept in order at all times.
(Cases supra.) A breach of this duty, like the breach of
most civil duties, naturally entailed a liability, and Congress fixed the liability, not as a punishment for a criminal
offense, but as a civil consequence, so far as the Government was concerned, of a failure to perform the duty which,
in the opinion of Congress, the public weal demanded
should. be performed by railroad companies." 170 Fed.
Rep. 556.
Does the act of Congress in question impose on an inter-

C., B. & Q. RY. v. UNITED STATES.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

state carrier an absolute duty to see to it that no car is
hauled or permitted to be hauled or used on its line unless it be equipped with couplers coupling automatically
by impact, and which can be uncoupled without the necessity of men going between the ends of the cars? Can the
carrier engaged in moving interstate traffic escape the penalty prescribed for a violation of the act, in the particulars
just mentioned, by showing that it had exercised reasonable care in equipping its cars with the required coupler,
and had used due diligence to ascertain, from time to time,
whether such cars were properly equipped?
The court below held that an explicit. answer to the
above questions was to be found in St. Louis, I. M. & S.
Ry. Co. v. Taylor, 210 U. S. 281. The Government insists
that such was the effect of the decision of that case.
The defendant contends that the questions here presented
were not necessary to be decided in the Taylor Case, and
that an examination of them now is not precluded by anything involved in that case.
Under the circumstances and because of the importance
of the questions raised, it seems appropriate, if not necessary, to state the origin of the Taylor Case and the grounds
upon which this court proceeded.
Neal, as administrator of the estate of Taylor, brought
an action in an Arkansas court against the' St. Louis, Iron
Mountain & Southern Railway Co. to recover damages for
the death of Taylor, one of its employ6s, whose death, it
was alleged, had been caused by the company's failure to
provide certain safety appliances required by the act of
Congress. Pursuant to the direction of the state court a
verdict was returned for the railway company. The case
was taken to the Supreme Court of Arkansas, and that
court decided that 'the act of Congress departed from or
supplanted that general rule obtaining :between master
and servant, which protected the master,
when charged
with the failure to have safe machinery for the servant,

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

if it appeared that the master used reasonable care and diligence in providing suitable and safe appliances. "But,"
that court said, "it is different where the injury is caused
by a violation of a statutory duty on the part of the master.
The statute upo'n which this case is based does not say that
the company shall use ordinary care to provide -its cars
with drawbars of a certain height, but it imposes as a positive duty upon railway companies that they shall do
so. .
.
The act of Congress requiring, railroad companies to equip their cars with drawbars of standard and
uniform heights specifically provides that an employ6 injured by the failure of a company to comply with the act
shall not be deemed to have assumed the risk by reason
of his knowledge that the company had not complied with
the statute, and there is no question of assumed risk presented." The Supreme Court of the State was therefore
of opinion that the trial court had not correctly interpreted
the act of Congress in respect of the nature of the duty imposed by-the statute on the railroad company, and directed
the case to be sent back for a new trial. . Neal v. St. Louis,
I. M. & S. Ry. Co., 71 Arkansas, 445, 450. The second trial
was conducted on the basis of the principles announced by
the Supreme Court of Arkansas in that case. At the second
trial the railway company asked the court to instruct,
but the court .refused to instruct, the jury as follows: "The
court tells you that if you find from the evidence in this
case the defendant equipped all its cars with uniform and
standard height drawbars when such cars are first built
and turned out of the shops, then the defendant is only
-bound to use ordinarycare to maintain such drawbars at the
uniform and standard height spoken of in the testimony."
This was designated as instruction No. 23, asked by the
'railway company. It appears at page 126 of the -original
record, on file in this court, of the Taylor Case. At the
last trial there was a verdict in the state court against the
railway company. The company appealed to the Supreme

C., B. & Q. RY. v. UNITED STATES.
.220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Court of Arkansas, where the judgment was affirmed.
St. Louis, I. M. & S. Ry. Co. v. Neal, 83 Arkansas, 591, 598.
The railway company prosecuted a writ of error to this
court, and the case is reported as St. Louis, I. M. & S. Ry.
Co. v. Taylor, 210 U. S. 281. It was assigned by-the company for error, and its counsel insisted that the trial court
erred in refusing the above instruction, No. 23, and that
the Supreme Court of the State erred in not so ruling.
(Original record, p. 154.) The reason assigned in support
of that view was that "a reasonable construction of the
Safety Appliance Act is that if the railroad company
equipped all its cars with uniform and standard height
drawbars when such cars were first built and turned out of
the shops, then that thereafter the defendant is only bound
to use ordinarycare to maintain such drawbars at the uniform and standard height mentioned in the testimony."
Counsel for the other side contended in the case in 210
U. S. that" under the Safety Appliance Act it is immaterial
whether the defendant had notice of the defect or had
used ordinary care to prevent this and similar defects from
arising," and that "the railroad is liable under the act, unconditionally, for any violation of its provisions "-citing
Carson v. Southern Railway, 194 U. S. 136; United States
v. Atlantic Coast Line Railway Co., 153 Fed. Rep. 918;
United States v. Southern Ry., 135 Fed. Rep. 122; United
States v. Great Northern Ry. Co., 150 Fed. Rep. 229. It is
thus seen that whether the act of Congress imposed an
absolute duty upon the carrier in the matter of the required safety appliances, or whether knowledge or diligence on its part was an ingredient in the act condemned,
was a question distinctly presented here by the assignments of error and by counsel on both sides. This court
regarded the question as properly presented on the record,
and that its duty was to meet and decide it. Speaking by
Mr. Justice Moody, it said: "It is not, and cannot be,
disputed that the questions raised by the errors assigned

OCTOBER'TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the C6urt.

220 U. S.

were seasonably and properly made in the court below,
so as to give this court jurisdiction to consider them; so
no time need be spent on that." What, then, was held by
this court in the Taylor Case? Among other things, the
court said: "On this state of the evidence the defendant
was refused instructions, in substance, that if the defendant furnished cars which were constructed with drawbars
of a standard height, and furnished shims to competent
inspectors and trainmen, and used reasonable care to
keep the dfawbars at a reasonable height, it had complied
with its statutory duty, and, if the lowering of the drawbar resulted from the failure to use the shims, that was the
negligence of a fellow-servant, for which the defendant was
not responsible. In deciding the questions thus raised,
upon which the courts have differed (St. Louis & S. F. Ry.
v. Delk, 158 Fed. Rep. 931), we need not enter into the.
wilderness of cases upon the common law duty of the employer to use reasonable care to furnish his employ4 reasonably safe tools, machinery and appliances, or consider
when and how far'that duty may be performed by delegating it to suitable persons for whose default the employer is not responsible. In the case before us the liability
of the defendant does not grow out of the common law
duty of master to servant. The Congress, not satisfied
with the common law duty and its resulting liability, has*
prescribed'and defined the duty by statute. We have nothing to do but to ascertain and declare the meaning of a
few simple words in which the duty is described. It is
enacted that 'no cars, either loaded or unloaded, shall be
used in interstate traffic which do not comply with the
standard.' There is no escape from the meaning of these
words. Explanation cannot clarify them, and ought not
to be employed to confuse them or lessen their significance.
The obvious purpose of the legislature was to supplant
the qualified duty of the common law with an absolute duty
deemed by it more just. If the railroad does, in point of fact,

C., B. & Q. RY. v. UNITED STATES.
220 U. S.

Opinion nf the Court.

use cars which do not comply with the standard, it violates
the plain prohibitions of the law, and there arises from that
violation the liability to make compensation to one who is
injured by it. It is urged that this is a harsh construction.
To this we reply that, if it be the true construction, its
harshness is no concern of the courts. They have no responsibility for the justice or wisdom of legislation, and
no duty except to enforce the law as it is written, unless it is
clearly beyond the constitutional power of the lawmaking
body. . . . It is quite conceivable that Congress,
contemplating the inevitable hardship of such injuries, and
hoping to diminish the economic loss to the 'community
resulting from them, should deem it wise to impose their
burdens upon those who could measurably control their
causes, instead of upon those who are in the main helpless
in that regard. Such a policy would be intelligible, and, to
say the least, not so unreasonable as to require us to doubt
that it was intended, and to seek some unnatural interpretation of common words. We see no error in this part of
the case." These views were not new, but were in accord
with previous judgments in several cases in the Federal
courts. In United States v. Phil. & R. Ry. Co., 160 Fed.
Rep. 696, 698; United States v. L. & N. R. R. Co., 162 Fed.
Rep. 185-6; United States v. Chicago, Great Western Ry.
Co., 162 Fed. Rep. 775, 778.
It cannot then be doubted that this court in the Taylor
Case considered the scope ,and effect of the Safety Appliance Act of Congress as directly involved in the questions
raised in that case, and it expressly decided that the provision in the second section relating to automatic couplers
imposed an absolute duty on each corporation in every
case to provide the required couplers on cars used in interstate traffic. It also decided that non-performance of that
duty could not be evaded or excused by proof that the
corporation had used ordinary care in the selection of
proper couplers or reasonable diligence in using them and

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

ascertaining their condition from time to time. That the
Taylor Case, as decided by this court, has been so interpreted and acted upon by the Federal courts generally, is
entirely clear as appears from the cases cited in the margin.1
In United States v. A., T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 163 Fed. Rep.
517, Mr. Justice Van Devanter, then Circuit Judge, speaking for the Circuit Court of Appeals, referred to the Taylor Case in this court saying: "It is now authoritatively
settled that the duty of the railway company in situations
where the congressional law is applicable is not that of
exercising reasonable care in maintaining the prescribed
safety appliance in operative condition, but is absolute.
In that case the common-law rules in respect of the exercise of reasonable care by the master and of the nonliability of the master for the negligence of a fellow servant
were invoked by the railway company, and were held by
the court to be superseded by the statute; . . . While
the defedtive appliance in that case was a drawbar, and
not a coupler, and the action was one to recover damages

for the death of an employ6, and not a penalty, we per-

ceive nothing in these differences which distinguishes that
case from this. As respects the nature of the duty placed
1 United States v. Phil. & R. Ry. Co., 162 Fed. Rep. 403; United
States v. Lehigh. Valley R. Co., 162 Fed. Rep. 410; 'United States v.
Denver & R.G. R., 163 Fed. Rep. 519; Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v.
United-States, 165 Fed. Rep. 423; Donegan v. Baltimore & N. Y. Ry.
Co., 165 Fed. Rep. 869; United States v. Erie R. Co., 166 Fed. Rep.
352; United States v. Wheeling & L. E. R.Co., 167 Fed. Rep. 198, 201;
Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v. United States, 168 Fed. Rep. 175, 184;
'Chicago Junction Ry. Co. v. King, 169 Fed. Rep. 372, 377; United
States v. Southern Pac. Co., 169 Fed. Rep. 407, 409; Watson v..St.
Louis, I. M. & S. Ry.Co., 169, Fed. Rep. 942; Wabash R. Co. V. United
States, 172 Fed. Rep 864; A., T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. United States, 172
Fed. Rep. 1021; Norfolk & W. Ry. Co. v. United States, 177 Fed. Rep.
623; United States v' Illinois Cent. R. Co., 177 Fed. Rep. 801; Johnson v. Great Northern Ry.Co., 178 Fed. Rep. 646; Siegel v. N. Y. Cent.
& H. R.R., 178 Fed. Rep. 873.

C., B. & Q. RY. v. UNITED STATES.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

upon the railway company, § 5, relating to drawbars, is
the same as § 2, relating to couplers, and § 6, relating to
the penalty, is expressed in terms which embrace every
violation of any provision of the preceding sections. Indeed, a survey of the entire statute leaves no room to
doubt that all violations thereof are put in the same category, and that whatever properly would be deemed a
violation in an action to recover for personal injuries is
to be deemed equally a violation in an action to recover
a penalty."
In view of these facts, we are unwilling to regard the
question as to the meaning and scope of the Safety Appliance Act, so far as it relates to automatic couplers on trains
moving in interstate traffic, as open to further discussion
here. If the court was wrong in the Taylor Case the way
is open for such an amendment of the statute as Congress
may, in its discretion, deem proper. This court ought not
now disturb what has been so widely accepted and acted
upon by the courts as having been decided in that case.
A contrary course would cause infinite uncertainty, if not
mischief, in the administration of the law in the Federal
courts. To avoid misapprehension, it is appropriate to
say that we are not to be understood as questioning the
soundness of the interpretation heretofore placed by this
court upon the Safety Appliance Act. We only mean to
say that until Congress, by an amendment of the statute
changes the rule announced in the Taylor Case, this court
will adhere to and apply that rule.
The Taylor Case was a strictly civil proceeding, being an
action by an individual to recover damages for a personal
injury alleged to have been caused by the negligence of a
corporation; whereas, the present action is to recover a
penalty. This differeim., it is suggested, will justify a
reexamination, upon principle, of the rule announced in
the Taylor Case. In effect, the contention is that the
present action for a penalty is a criminal prosecution,
and
VOL. ccxx-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

that the defendant cannot be held guilty of a crime when
it had no thought or purpose to commit a crime, and endeavored with due diligence to obey the act of Congress.
This contention is unsound, because the present action is
a civil one. It is settled law that "a certain sum, or a sum
which can readily be reduced to a certainty, prescribed
in a statute as a penalty for the violation of law, may be
recovered by civil action, even if it may also be recovered
in a proceeding which is technically criminal." It was so
decided, upon full consideration, in Hepner v. United
States, 213 U. S. 103, 108. In that case it was also held
that it was competent for the trial court, even though the
action was for a penalty, to direct a verdict for the Government, the court saying that it was "fundamental in
the conduct of civil actions, that the court may withdraw
a case from the jury and direct a verdict, according to the
law if the evidence is uncontradicted and raises only a
question of law." So, in Oceanic Navigation Co. v. Stranahan, 214 U. S. 320, 337, 338; "The contention that
because the exaction which the statute authorizes the Secretary of Commerce and Labor to impose is a penalty,
therefore its enforcement is necessarily governed by the
rules controlling in the prosecution of criminal offenses, is
clearly without merit, and is not open to discussion." If
the statute upon which the present action is based had expressly or by implication declared that the penalty prescribed may only be recovered by a criminal proceeding,
that direction must have been followed. The power of
the legislature to declare an offense, and to exclude the
elements of knowledge and due diligence from any inquiry
as to its commission, cannot, we think, be questioned.
Regina v. Woodrow, 15 Meeson & Welsby, 403, 417; People
v. Snowberger, 113 Michigan, 86; Commonwealth v. Emmons, 98 Massachusetts, 6, 8; People v. Roby, 52 Michigan,
577; Edgar v. State, 37 Arkansas, 219, 223; Maryland v.
Baltimore & Susquehanna Steam Co., 13 Maryland, 181,

C., B. & Q. RY. v. UNITED STATES.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

.187, 188. In Halsted v. State, 41 N. J. L..552, 591, the suggestion was made that in determining the mind of the legislature, the dictates of natural justice should be the ground
of decision, and not simply regarded as a mere circumstance of weight. But that court said: "As there isan undoubted competency in the lawmaker to declare an act
criminal, irrespective of the knowledge or motive of the
doer of such act, there can be, of necessity, no judicial
authority having the power to require, in the enforcement
of the law, such knowledge or motive to be shown. In
such instances the entire function of the court is to find
out the intention of the legislature, and to enforce the
law in absolute conformity to such intention." So, in
Greenleaf on Evidence: "Where a statute commands that
an act be done or omitted, which, in the absence of such
statute, might have been done or omitted without culpability, ignorance of the fact or state of things contemplated
by the statute, it seems, will not excuse its violation. Thus,
for example, where the law enacts the forfeiture of a ship
having smuggled goods. on board, and such goods are
secreted on board by some of the crew, the owner and officers beirg alike innocently ignorant of the fact, yet the
forfeiture is incurred, notwithstanding their ignorance.
Such is also the case in regard to many other fiscal, police,
and other laws and regulations, for the mere violation of
which, irrespective of the motives or knowledge of the
party, certain penalties are enacted; for the law, in these
cases, seems to bind the party to know the facts and to
obey the law at his peril." (3 Greenleaf, 16th ed., §§ 21,
26 and notes.)
We need say nothing more. The case is plainly covered
by the act of Congress. And as it is determined by the
rule announced in the Taylor Case, it must be held that no
error of law was committed to the.prejudice of the defendant, and the judgment must be affirmed.
It is so ordered.

