RIPLEY v. UNITED STATES.
220 U. S.

Syllabus.

act required that they should be given "their proportionate
shares according to their numbers . . . of the appropriations made by Congress for fulfilling treaty stipulations with the confederated tribes.
I think, therefore, that a fixed, unvarying sum should
not have been selected. Annual tests should have been
made and the increase or decrease of the Indians ascertained by the Secretary of the Interior.
The Court of Claims found, it is true, that there was no
competent evidence of the increase or decrease of the divisions of the tribe. But in so finding the court disregarded,
as I have already said, evidence which the jurisdictional
act and the stipulations of the contending Indians made
competent, and such evidence, though not strong, established that the claimant Indians had increased. It is
pointed out in the opinion that the Secretary of the In
terior recognized a small increase of the deferidant Indians in 1887.

RIPLEY v. UNITED STATES.
UNITED STATES v. RIPLEY.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 887, 888.

Submitted March 10, 1911.-Decided April 24, 1911.

This court may not draw an inference of bad faith on the part of a
government inspector unless the findings are so clear on the-subject
as to take the inference beyond controversy.
It is the duty of the Court of Claims in dealing with the question of
bad faith on the part of a government inspector to explicitly find

the facts in regard to that subject.
The Court of Claims should find as a fact whether or not complaints
were made to the proper officers as to improper conduct on the part
of subordinates, and if made, when and what action was taken
thereon.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

Where proper findings are not made by the Court of Claims on specific
matters to enable this court to properly review the judgment, the
record will be remanded to that court for additional findings as to
such matters, United States v. Adams, 9 Wall. 661; and so ordered
in this case, with instructions to return to this court with all convenient speed.
45 C. Cl. 621, remanded with instructions.

THE facts, which involve the construction of a contract
for public work with the United States and the validity of
claims made by the contractor thereunder, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. William H. Robeson, Mr. Benjamin
Carter and Mr.
F. Carter Pope were on the brief, for Ripley.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General John Q. Thompson and
Mr. Philip M. Ashford, Attorneyfor the United States.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
These are cross appeals from a judgment entered by the
Court of Claims against the United States and in favor
of Henry C. Ripley. The claim of Ripley was based upon
a written contract between himself and the United States,
executed on April 6, 1903, containing numerous stipulations, by which in substance Ripley agreed to furnish materials for and do certain jetty work at Aransas Pass,
Texas, authorized by an act approved June 13, 1902 (32
Stat. 340).
In his amended petition Ripley set forth numerous items
of damage, aggregating $45,930.00, which it was asserted
resulted from violations by the United States of the terms
of the contract. Judgment was entered against the United
States for $14,732.05. • 45 Ct. Cl. 621. Ripley prosecuted
this appeal in order to obtain an increased allowance,

RIPLEY v. UNITED STATES.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

while the United States by its cross appeal seeks a reversal
of the judgment.
* Among other things it was provided in paragraph 61 of
the specifications as follows:
"Between Stations 20 and 27 and from the vicinity of
Station 55 seawards the method of construction shall be
as follows: A mound of small riprap shall first be built up
over and around the existing structure to about one foot
elevation. When in the judgment of the U. S. agent in
charge this mound has become sufficiently consolidated,
its gaps and interstices shall be filled and its crest levelled
with small riprap, generally one man stone. Large blocks
shall then be bedded in crest of mound in two rows breaking joints with their longest dimensions parallel to the axis
of jetty in such manner that voids under the placed blocks
will be at a minimum, and side slopes and remainder of
crest shall then be covered with large riprap."
A large sum was demanded by Ripley upon the contention that the completion of the work was greatly delayed owing to the fact that "On the portion of the line
where no foundation had previously been laid, and where
petitioner therefore placed the foundation materials, said
Captain Jadwin and the subordinate officers in charge forbade and restrained petitioner from imposing the cap
blocks until long after the foundation, in their judgment
and, in fact, had become sufficiently consolidated and
they had caused the crest to be levelled." On this branch
of the case the Court of Claims found as follows:
"VII.
"In the performance of said work it was advantageous
to claimant to have his employees operate on the lee side
of the structure where they could be protected from the
action of the rough seas, and for this purpose it was desirable that he be allowed to impose the crest block on the
top of the core as rapidly as possible, so that the wave

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

could not pass over it and interfere with the workmen, and
thus prevent delay in the completion of the contract. The
Aransas Pass Harbor Company had laid the foundation
for'the entire jetty and for 2800 feet, that is, between Stations 27 and 55, the entire core of the structure had been
built up, and between Stations 27 and 40 the crest blocks
had been laid. The foundation and the core thus previously constructed were fully consolidated when the contract with claimant was let.
"When claimant had completed from 100 to 200 feet of
the core he requested from the inspector in charge permission to. begin to lay crest blocks which was refused on
the ground that the core had not consolidated. By the
end of December, 1903, claimant had completed 400 to
500 feet of the core and again he requested permission to
impose the crest blocks. Said inspector refused and continued to refuse permission to lay said crest blocks until
May, 1904, at which time between 1400 and 1500 feet of
the core had been repaired and completed. Commencing
in October, 1903, when about 300 feet of the core had been
built up to the required elevation, slope stones were laid
on the jetty which afforded some protection from the
action of the waves to the rip-rap already constructed, but
not as much protection as the crest blocks would have
afforded. When claimant was thus laying the slope stones,
and throughout December, 1903, and January, February,
March, and April, 1904, it was manifest that large parts of
the work done by him had fully settled and consolidated.
If claimant had been permitted to lay the crest blocks from
that time on as the work progressed there would have resulted an additional protection which would haye enabled
him to work 60 days more than he did between that time
and May 7, 1904, date the first crest blocks were laid.
When claimant was seeking permission to lay the crest
blocks as aforesaid the inspector, in refusing same, alleged
as a reason that the jetty had not had sufficient time to

RIPLEY v. UNITED STATES.
220 U. S.

Opinion or the Court.

consolidate, and it does not appear that any other reason
was at any time given by said inspector for so refusing."
In the brief of counsel for Ripley it is said:
"This court will perceive that, with the exception of
two matters of minor importance to which we will hereafter
briefly refer, the main complaint involved in this appeal
is the erroneous application of Finding VII to the judgment. The Court of Claims in Finding VII has found that
as early as October, 1903, claimant was endeavoring to
obtain permission to lay the crest blocks on the core of
which 'it was manifest that large parts

had fully

settled and consolidated.' 'Manifest,', according to all the
dictionaries, means 'clear,' 'plain,' 'evident to the eye and
.understanding.' 'So that if it was 'manifest' that the core
.had fully settled and consolidated, it naturally follows that
this was known to the inspector and that the denial of the
permission to lay the crest blocks (which the claimant had
the right to do upon the consolidation of the core) was
such a fraud as entitles him to recover the damages he has
thereby suffered. The claimant's right to recover could
not be more complete had the Court of Claims found in so
many words that the decisions of the Government's officer
were grossly fraudulent and made in bad faith. Apparently the Court of Claims, with delicate. consideration for
the feelings of the engineer department, chose to employ
different, though just as effective language. But for the denial of this permission to lay these crest blocks, they would
have been laid and thus substantially all of the delay in
the completion of the contract would have been avoided."
We are of opinion, however, that while it may be open to
conjecture that the word "manifest" as used by the court
in its finding is susceptible of the broad significance which
the argument thus imputes to it, we do not think such
meaning is s6 clear and free from doubt as to justify us in
concluding that there was bad faith on the part of the
Government inspector in charge of the work. We say

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

this because it is certain that we may not draw the inference of bad faith unless the findings are so clear on the
subject as to cause such inference to be plain beyond controversy. It follows, therefore, that the finding below on
the subject of the knowledge and good faith of the inspector
is so incomplete and inconclusive as to render it impossible
for us to depide the cause without grave risk of doing
wrong to the plaintiff or serious injury to the Government.
It was the clear duty of the court below, in dealing with
the question of bad faith on the part of the Government
inspector, not to leave that subject dependent upon an ambiguous expression susceptible of being construed one way
or the other, but to explicitly find whether or not that
which it states was manifest was or was not known to the
inspector and whether that subordinate official acted in
good or bad faith in the various refusals recited as having
been made to the laying of the crest blocks and to the reasons assigned for those refusals. Further, the court should
have found as a fact whether or not complaint was made
by the claimant, either to the engineer officer in charge or
to the chief of engineers, as to the action of the subordinate
inspector in refusing the requested permission, and if complaint was made, when it was made and what action was
taken thereon.
Following the approved practice (United States v. Adams,
9 Wall. 661), the following order will be made:
Ordered: That the record in this case be remanded to the
Court of Claims, and that said court be instructed to find
and certify to this court, as matters of fact, in addition to
the facts found and certified in said record:
First. Whether, when the claimant was laying the slope
stones and during the months of December, 1903, and
January, February, March and April, 1904, as recited in
Finding VII, the inspector in charge knew "that large
parts of the work done by the claimant had fully settled
and consolidated,"

SENA v. AMERICAN TURQUOISE CO.
220 U. S.

Syllabus.

Second. Whether in the various refusals to permit the
laying of crest blocks stated in Finding VII the inspector
in charge acted in good faith.
Third. Whether at any time the claimant notified the
engineer officer in charge or the chief of engineers that the
inspector in charge wrongfully refused to permit the laying of the crest blocks, and if such notice was given,
whether it was oral or written, when the notice or notices
were given, and what action, if any, was taken by such superior officer.

And it is further ordered that the said record, with the
said additional findings of fact, be returned to this court
with all convenient speed.

SENA v. AMERICAN TURQUOISE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
NEW MEXICO.

No. 73.

Argued April 18, 19.11.-Decided May 1, 1911.

In an action of ejectment in New Mexico, the trial court was of opin-ion that the boundaries under which plaintiff claimed did not include the land in dispute, and the Supreme Court of the Territory
affirmed on the ground of defect in plaintiff's grant and that the
evidence as to possession was too vague to raise a presumption in
place of proof; and this court affirms the judgment.
Where both parties move for a ruling, and there is no question of fact
sufficient to prevent a ruling being made, the motions together
amount to a request that the court find any facts necessary to make
the ruling; and, if the court directs a verdict, both parties are coneluded as to the facts found, and unless the ruling is wrong as matter
of law the judgment must stand. Beuttell v. Magone, 157 U. S. 154.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
VOL. ccxx-32

