ENRIQUEZ v. GO-TIONGCO.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ENRIQUEZ v. GO-TIONGCO.'
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.

No. 95.

Argued March 13, 1911.-Decided April 3, 1911.

The Supreme Courtof the Philippine Islands having h.eld that on the
death of the wife the husband, if surviving, is entitled to settle the
affairs of te community, and on his subsequent death his executor
is the proper administrator of the same; and on the facts as found by
both courts below, he.d that in this case the communityestate is liable
for services rendered with knowledge and consent of all parties in
interest in connection with sale of property belonging to it after
both husband and wife had died, and that the proper method of
collection was by suit against the husband's representative in his
capacities of ekecutor and administrator.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Jackson H. Ralston, with whom Mr. Frederick
L. Siddons and Mr. William E. Richardson were on the
brief, for appellants.
Mr. Aldis B. Browne, with whom Mr. Alexander Britton
and Mr. Evans Browne were on the brief, for appellees.
MR.JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal'from a judgment of the Supreme

Court of the Philippine Islands, affirming the judgment
'of the Court of First Instance for the city of Manila, which
dismissed this suit. The action was brought to set aside
a-judgment sale of land in Manila, known as the Old

-Theatre, formerly the community property of Antonio
Enriquez and his wife, Ciriaca Villainueva. The plaintiffs

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

and appellants are the administrators of the estate of Antonio, including the interest of Ciriaca Villanueva, and all
of the heirs of the two, except Francisco Enriquez, one of
the defendants. The other defendants now before the
court are the purchaser at the sale and a subsequent purchaser from, him.
Ciriaca Villanueva died intestate in 1882. Thereafter
her husband administered the community property until
his death in 1884. By a codicil to his will, as stated by
the Supreme Court, he provided "that the inventory,
valuation and partition of this estate be made extrajudicially, and by Virtue of the power which the law grants
.him he forbids any judicial interference in the settlement
thereof, conferring upon his executors the necessary authority therefor, without any restriction whatever, and
extending their term of office for such period as may
be required for this purpose." The defendant Francisco
Enriquez was the executor, and in April, 1886, was appointed .the general administrator of the estate, including
the interest of Ciriaca Villanueva, with directions to proceed in accordance with the codikil, which he did until
March,. 1901, except for a short time in May, 1900. There
were no testamentary or ,other proceedings in court, and
could not be, by Spanish law, in view of ,the codicil, but it
lay with Francisco Enriquez to carry out the trust. There
were differences among the heirs, and they made an agreement in August, 1897, for an extrajudicial partition, subject to the provisions of the will, in which Jose Moreno
Lacalle was to act as an arbitrator. The partition fell
through, but Lacalle rendered services to the two estates,
as both courts have found, and on October 23, 1897, it was
agreed by Francisco Enriquez, the defendant, and Rafael
Enriquez, on behalf, of the plaintiffs, that, the land'in
question should be sold, for the purpose, among others,
of paying Lacalle. No sale was made, however, and in
1898 Lacalle sued Francisco Enriquez as executor- and ad-

ENRIQUEZ v. GO-TIONGCO.
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court,.

ministrator, as aforesaid. The defendant admitted the
debt, stated that he had no money, and pointed out this
land for execution. On September 10, 1899, the land was
sold for more than the appraised value to the defendant
Go-Tiongco, who bought in good faith, and without notice
of any claim unless notice is implied by law.
There is no question that every consideration of justice
is in favor of the defendants; from whom the plaintiffs
are endeavoring to get back the land without restitution
of the purchase price and after the last purchaser has made
costly improvements. The owners of the land agreed
to the rendering of the services, but they attempt to avoid
the payment on technical grounds. They say that the
debt having been incurredafter the death of the husband
and wife, did not bind their estates, that if the claim had
been good against the estate of the husband the suit
should have been brought against his heirs, and finally,
that the judgment against Francisco Enriquez could not
bind the estate of Ciriaca, so that the sale must be void,
at leastin part. But in our opinion these objections ought
not to prevail, on the facts as stated by both courts below
and the law as it was administered in the Philippines at the
time of the acts.
It seems to have: been understood by everybody that
Francisco Enriquez was 'administering both estates in
fact, and to have been intended by his appointment in
April, 1886, that he should do so by authority of law. The
decree under which the plaintiff Rafael Enriquez now is
administrator of the estate of both parents, on the face
gives him the same authority that Francisco had had befbre. The Supreme Court holds in this case that on the
death of the wife the husband, if surviving, is entitled
to settle the affairs of the community and that on his
death his executor is the proper administrator of the same.
See Alfonso v. Natiidad, 6 Phil. Rep. 240. Prado v.
Lagera, 7 Phil. Rep. 395. Johnston v. San FranciscoSay-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

ings Union, 75 California, 134. ,Moody v. Smoot, 78 Texas
119. Succession of Lamm, 40 La. Ann. 312. Crary v.
Field, 9 N. Mex.. 222, 22"9; S. C., 10 N. Mex. 257. We
should be show to disturb their decision, even if we did
not believe it to be right, as we do. But whfen without
dispute Antonio was acting, there seems to be no necessity
for inquiring whether the appointment could have been
avoided if the attempt had been made. The contract
with Lacalle, if made by Francisco Enriquez, as seems to
have been assumed below, was made as we have said by
the wish of all. .he services were rendered in aid of
winding up the community business and were a proper
charge upon the estate. See Civil Code of 1889, Art. 1064.
Sy Chung-Quiong v. Sy-Tiong Tay, .10 Phil. Rep. 141.
Francisco Enriquez was the only representative of the
estate. The only practicable means of collecting the debt
was by suit against him. The record of the suit that was
brought most frequently refers to him as executor, but at
times as executor and administrator, and the Supreme
Court says that as matter of law the suit was directed
against him in the latter as well as the former capacity.
The judgment must be taken to have bound the community estate. Carter v. Conner, 60 Texas, 52., Lan-,
dreaux v. Louque, 43 La. Ann. 234. Other matters would
have to be discussed before we could reverse the judgment
below, but we see no ground for doubting that it should
be affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.

