OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Counsel for Parties.

220 U. S.

STATE: OF OKLAHOMA, ON THE RELATION OF
WEST, ATTORNEY GENERAL, v. GULF, COLORADO & SANTA FE RAILWAY COMPANY.
BILL IN EQUITY.
No. 14, Original.

Argued February 23, 24, 1911.-Decided April 3, 1911.

Oklahoma v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co., ante, p. 277, followed to effect that a State cannot invoke the original jurisdiction
of this court by suit against individual defendants on its behalf
where the primary purpose is to protect citizens generally against
violation of its own laws by the, defendants.
'A State cannot invoke the original jurisdiction of this court to enforce
a judgment rendered in its courts for a violation of its penal- or
criminal laws, Wisconsin v. Pelican.Insurance Company, .127 U. S.
265, or to enforce a penal statute.
A suit by a State, to enjoin carriers from conveying intoxicating
liquors into its territory or an Indian reservation therein, is one to
enforce by injunction regulations prescribed by the State for violations of its own penal statutes and is not within the original jurisdiction of *this court; and so held as to a suit brought by the State
of Oklahoma to enjoin railway and express companies. from intro-'
ducing liquor into its territory.

facts, which involve the construction of the provisions of the Constitution of the United States conferring
original jurisdiction on this court in controVersies in
which a State is a party, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. Charles West, Attorney General of the State of
Oklahoma, for complainant.
Mr. Lawrence Maxwell and Mr. S. T. Bledsoe,
with whom
Mr.
Charles
Green,
W.
Mr. Martin L. Clardy, Mr. William
W. Stockton, Mr. T. B. Harrison, Jr., and Mr. Joseph S.
Graydon were on the brief, for defendants.

OKLAHOMA v. GULF, COL. & SANTA FE RY. 291
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUsTIcE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
The State of Oklahoma, by the present suit, invokes the
original jurisdiction of this court for its protection against
certain acts, alleged to have been done or threatened to be
done by the respective defendants in derogation of its
rights as a State. The case has been heard upon demurrers filed by the several defendants. Some of the demurrers proceed upon the specific ground that this court
cannot take jurisdiction of the cause, while others add the:
general ground that the bill does not show any facts entitling the State to the relief sought by the bill.,
As the case involves some questions of a grave character, it is proper to set forth with some fullness the
grounds upon which the State bases its claim for relief.
It is alleged in the bill that the defendant companies are
corporations of States other than Oklahoma, except that
the American Express Company is a partnership, composed of individuals who are citizens and residents of
New York; that what were formerly the Territory of
Oklahoma and the Indian Territory constitute the present
State of Oklhhoma; that the lands in the Indian Territory,
owned by various Indian tribes, were, by agreement or
treaties with the United States, to be allotted in severalty
among the members of such tribes, with certain exceptions named in the treaties, which it is not necessary to set
out here; that by said agreement or treaties the United
States agreed to maintain strict laws in said Territory,
particularly in the allotted lands, against the introduction, sale, barter or the giving away of liquors and intoxicants of any kind or quality; and, that pursuant to
said agreement and treaties Congress, by the act of
June 16, 1906, 34 Stat., .Pt. 1, 267, c. 3335, § 3, made it a
condition of the admission of Oklahoma into the Union as
.aState that it should provide by its constitution that
"the manufacture, sale, barter, giving away or otherwise

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

furnishing, except as therein provided, of intoxicating
liquors within those parts of the proposed State then
known as the Indian Territory and the Osage Reservation and within any other parts of the proposed State
which existed as an Indian reservation on the first day of
January, 1906, should be prohibited for twenty-one years
from the date of the admission of the State into the
Union, and that in said act no reservation or exception
was made whereby any one of the defendants might import into the said nanied portion of said State or in any
other manner furnish any intoxicating liquors whatsoever, and the power to regulate interstate commerce in
intoxicating liquor was thereby surrendered to the State
of Oklahoma as to said portions of said State; and by the
said act' it was not provided that intoxicating liquor
should be furnished to any person in what was formerly
the Indian Territory, including the Osage Reservation
and any other parts of the State which existed as Indian
reservations on tile first day of January, 1906, in the
manner and form that the same is now furnished and imported by said defendants, as hereinafter more fully, set
forth, or in any other manner or form."
The bill also alleged that,, by ordinance irrevocable,
Oklahoma had accepted the terms and conditions of the
act of June 16, 1.906, including the provision relating to,
,intoxicating liquors; and thereby the State was obligated
in place of the United States, so far as the power was
lodged in it, to carry out the treaties and agreements made
with the said Indian tribes against the introduction, sale,
or in any manner the furnishing of intoxicating liquors in
what was formerly the Indian Territory; but that defendants, in violation of the law and the rights of said Indian
tribes therein, and to the injury of the State of Oklahoma
and its inhabitants have, since November 16, 1867, and
up to this time, continuously violated all said provisions
against furnishing, carrying and conveying beer, ale,

OKLAHOMA v. GULF, COL. & SANTA FE RY.o 293
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

wine and intoxicating liquors into Indian Territory; that
such violation of law deeply injures and irreparably destroys the good citizenship and property of the State and
its inhabitants, and the defendants 'threaten to continue
the same unless restrained; and that in continuing so to
do, the defendants and each of them have committed acts
that amount to the surrender and abandonment of their
corporate right to be engaged and doing business in interstate commerce between the States, and against such acts
the plaintiff has no adequate remedy according to the
course of the common law.
The State also complains that various persons, about
two hundred in number, within its limits (the names of
such persons being all set forth in a list made part of the
bill) have made payment of the special tax required of
liqlor dealers under the laws of the United States; that
by the above act of Congress of June 16, 1906, it was
made a condition precedent to the admission of Oklahoma into the Union that "in its .constitution it should
provide that the payment of the special tax required of
liquor dealers by the United States, of any person within
those parts of the proposed State then known as the
Indian Territory and the Osage Reservation, and within
any other parts of said proposed State which existed as
Indian reservations on the first clay of January, 1906,
should constitute prima faerie evidence of the intention of
such persons to violate that provision of the act of June 16,
1906, in reference to the prohibition of the manufacture,
sale, barter, giving away, or otherwise furnishing intoxicating liquors which it was provided as a condition
precedent that the constitution of said proposed* State
should provide for."
The bill further shows that the State, through its Constitutional Convention, submitted to the popular vote
the question of adopting a provision prohibiting the manufacture, barter, sale, giving away or otherwise furnishing

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

intoxicating liquors in the State, and the result was the
approval by the electors of a constitutional provision of
that kind which has been in force since November 16,
i907; that pursuant to that constitutional provision the
legislature of the State, on March 24, 1908, Okla. Laws,
1907-8, p. 594, passed a general statute, establishing a
state agency and local agencies for the sale of intoxicating
liquors for .certain purposes and prohibiting the manufacture, sale, barter, giving away or otherwise furnishing
intoxicating liquors, except as provided in the act; that
by the terms of said act (Art. 3, § 2) it was provided that
"the payment of the special tax required of liquor dealers
by the United States by any person within'this State,
except the local agents of said State by said act, should
constitute prima facie evidence of an intention to violate
the provisions of said act;" and that the defendants, each
and all Of them, had due notice in writing from the State,
by its constituted authorities, of the provisions of the act
of Congress, and of the constitution and laws of Oklahoma, referred to herein.
It should be here stated .that the above Oklahoma
statute of'March 24,- 1908, 'prescribed various penalties of
fine and imprisonment for violations of its provisions.
The bill finally alleges that the State of Oklahoma gave
to each ofthe defendants diie notice that it would'hold.all
shipments made by each of them '. whereby either of them
undertook to receive at points without the State of Oklahoma intoxicating liquors of any kind, and to transport,.
carry or. otherwise convey such liquors or compounds to
or to the order-of any of the persons, companies, corporations, firms or associations named in said list, as illegal,
contrary .to good morals, against the public policy and in
direct violation 'of the positive laws:of the State-of Oklahoma; that the importation of any prohibited intoxicat-.
ing liquors. to or to the order of any of said persons by
either or any of said defendants was and is a public nui-

OKLAHOMA v. GULF, COL. & SANTA FE RY. 295
220 U. S..

Opinion of the Court.

sance within the State of Oklahoma, and were not importations in good faith, intended for the use of the
importer and consignee, and not for sak R.iithin-the State;
that all shipments or deliveries made --y -efeidints by
interstate shipment to any or all of the persons named in
said list were intended for and were for the violation of the
laws of the State of Oklahoma and to commit a public'
nuisance in said State; that the State of Oklahoma thereby
was not undertaking to object or restrict the defendants
in the importation of intoxicating liquors, by interstate
shipment to any person in said State outside of what was
formerly the Indian Territory, the Osage Indian.Reservation and an Indian Reservation, January 1, 1906, intending it for his own use and not for sale in said State, but
that under the law of Said State. each and all of said persons intended to use all the liquor in their possession -to
sell the same in said State in violation of its laws, and that
any delivery of prohibited intoxicating liquors to any of
said persons would have the necessary effect of aiding
such consignee to violate the laws of the State of Oklahoma and would be a public nuisance and injury to the
said State."
That in addition thereto under the terms of said Chapter 69 of the Session Laws of 1907-1908, of Oklahoma, as
therein provided, the State of Oklahoma, for the benefit
of its citizens, undertook to furnish intoxicating liquor to
all persons in said State wherever a sale of the same was
by the law authorized, for reason -oJk.necessary use of the
same for preservation, or health,§io! like purposes, and
that under the laws of the StateQof Oklahoma, the State
of Oklahoma was the sole and only person authorized to
sell liquors in said State; that the State is pecuniarily interested'in the sale of said liquors and irreparably injured
by said importation b'y defendants to .the persons named
in said list who had paid the special tax required by the
United States of liquor dealers, in that the said importa-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

tion to the said persons named on said list, being for the
purpose of a resale of such importations in said State,
operated to the injury to the exclusive right to the sale of
intoxicating liquors in said State claimed and exercised by
the State of Oklahoma.
That since the sixteenth of November, 1907, after the
said-notices were received by the said defendants and up
to this time, the said defendants have continuously and
continually, each and all of them, imported to and to the
order of each firm and all of the persons named in said list
as having paid a special tax as required by the United
States of liquor dealers. And the said persons named in
said lists have continued continuously to resell said intoxicating liquors so imported by the defendants; that the
said resale has at all times been in violation of the laws of
the State of Oklahoma and has been, a cause of enormous
* expense and irreparable injury to the State of Oklahomaand the inhabitants thereof, and each and all of the
counties and other municipalities therein, in that the enenforcement of the laws against the sale of intoxicating
liquors is extremely difficult, expensive and exhaustive,
and that the importation and furnishing to said persons
named in said list by said defendants of such intoxicating
liquors with the intent that the same shall .be used for
resale in the said State has caused a large imposition of
expenses upon said State and a violation of its laws and a
constant source of friction .and corruption in its government and is against the peace and dignity of the government of said State, and totally against the public policy
-thereof and good morals therein, and is a public nuisance
in said State; that the defendants in violation of law and
in injury to the rights of the State and inhabitants thereof,
have openly, persistently and. continuously imported intoxicating liquors, whose -manufacture, sale, barter, or
furnishing is prohibited by the laws of the State of Oklahoma to each and all of the persons named in said list by

OKLAHOMA v. GULF, COL. & SANTA FE RY. 297
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

furnishing, carrying and conveying the same to and to the
order of each and all of the said persons named in said list
on divers and sundry occasions continuously, and that
defendants threaten to continue in the said violation unless restrained, and in continuing so to do said defendants,
and each of them, have committed acts which amount to
a surrender and an abandonment of their corporate right
to do business in interstate commerce in the carriage of
intoxicating liquors, and for the same the plaintiff has no
adequate remedy according to the course of the common
law for the reason that said shipments originate outside
of the State."
The relief asked is that the defendants be severally enjoined and restrained from further introducing, conveying
and furnishing intoxicating liquors, including ale, wine
and beer in any form, at any place, at any time, and in any
manner in the State within the limits of what was formerly
the Indian Territory, including the Osage Reservation,
and other parts of the State that existed as Indian reservations on the first day of January, 1.900; that the several
defendants be further enjoined from carrying, conveying,
delivering, and furnishing intoxicating liquors, including
ale, wine and beer, in any form and in any place, at any
time or in any manner, in the State to any or all of the
persons named in the above list as being persons who have
paid the special tax required by the United States of
liquor dealers; and that in default of obedience to the
order of injunction prayed for the corporate rights of the
defendants to do a business in interstate commerce with
persons in Oklahoma be forfeited.
Such is the case made by the bill, and we come now to
consider the controlling questions presented
by it.
It is manifest that the object of this suit by the State,
is, by means of an injunction issued by this court, to prevent the defendant companies from violating the penal or
criminal laws of Oklahoma. It is, therefore, in its essence

OCTOBER TERM, 1910..
Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

a suit to enforce those laws. But of such a suit this court
cannot take original cognizance, although the suit is in
form of a civil nature. The Constitution after enumerating, in the first clause of § 2 of Art. III, the cases, in law
and equity, as well as the controversies, to which the
judicial power of the United States shall extend, provides
that "in all cases affecting ambassadors, other public
ministers and consuls, and those in which a State shall
be party, the Supreme Court shall have original jurisdiction"-in all the other cases enumerated in the Article,
the court to have appellate jurisdiction, both as to law
and facts, with such exceptions, and under such regulations as Congress shall make.
The words "in which a State shall be party," literally
construed, would embrace original suits of a civil nature
brought by a State in this court to enforce a judgment
rendered for a* violation of its penal or criminal laws.
But it has been adjudged, upon full consideration, that
that result was inadmissible under the Constitution.
This will appear from. an examination of the opinion and
judgment in Wisconsin v. Pelican Insurance Co., 127
U. S. 265, 267, 290, 293. That was an original action
brought in this court by the State of. Wisconsin against
the Pelican Insurance Company of Louisiana to recover
the amount of a judgment rendered in a Wisconsin court
against that company for certain penalties incurred by it
for violating the laws of that State relating to the business
of fire insurance companies. The question was distinctly
presented whether the State could invoke the original
jurisdiction of this court, to enforce the collection of such
judgment. It was argued in that case that the suit was
simply an action of debt, founded upon a contract of
record, to wit, a judgment, and- was, therefore, to be regarded onlyas a civil suit, as distinguished from a criminalprosecution. But that view was overruled. The 'court
said that notwithstanding the comprehensive words of

OKLAHOMA v. GULF, COL. & SANTA FE RY. 299
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the Constitution, "the mere fact that a State is the plaintiff is not a conclusive test that the controversy is one in
which this court is authorized to grant relief against another State or her citizens." After an examination of the
authorities it was further said, the court, speaking by
Mr. Justice Gray: "The rule that the courts of no country
execute the penal laws'of another applies not only to prosecutions and sentences for crimes and misdemeanors, but
to all suits in favor of the State for the recovery of pecuniary penalties for any violation of statutes for the
protection of its revenue or other municipal laws, and to
all judgments for such penalties. If this were not so' all
that would be necessary to give ubiquitous effect to a
penal law would be to put the claim for a penalty into the
shape of a judgment, Wharton's Conflict of Laws, § 833;
Westlake's International Law, 1st ed., § 388; Piggott on
Foreign Judgments, 209, 210." Further: "From the first'
organization of the courts of the United States, nearly -a
century ago, it has always been assumed- that the original
jurisdiction of this court over controversies between a
State and citizens of another State, or of a foreign country, does not extend. to a suit by a State to recover penalties for a breach of her own municipal law.
The real nature of the case is not affected by the form
provided by the law of the State for the punishment of
the offense. It is immaterial whether, by the law of Wis- consin, the prosecution must be by indictment or by action, or whether under that law, a judgment there ob•tained for the penalty might be enforced by execution, by
scirefacias, or by a new suit. In whatever form the State
pursues her right to punish the offense against her sovereignty, every_ step of the proceeding tends to one end, the
compelling the offender to pay a pecuniary fine by way of
punishment for the offense. This court, therefore, cannot
entertain an original action to compel the defendant to'
pay to the State of Wisconsin a sum of money in satisfac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
'Opinion of the Court.

220 U. S.

tion of the judgment for that fine. The original jurisdiction of this court is conferred by the Constitution, without
limit of the amount in controversy, and Congress has
never imposed (if, indeed, it could impose) any such limit.
If this court has original jurisdiction of the present case,
it must follow that any action upon a judgment obtained
by a State in her own courts against a citizen of another
State for the recovery of any sum of money, however
small, by way of a fine for any offense, however petty,
against her laws, could be brought in the first instance in
the Supreme Court of the United States. That cannot
have been the intention of the Convention in framing, or
of the people in adopting, the Federal Constitution."
The principles announced in Wisconsin v. Pelican Ins.
Co., supra, have been recognized in many subsequent
cases. Postal Tel. Cable Co. v. Alabama, .155 U. S. 482,
487; Californiav. Southern Pacific Co., 157 U. S.229, 259;
Missouri v. Ill. & Chic. Dist., 180 U, S. 208,. 232; Alinnesota v. Northern Securities Co., 184 U. S. 199, 234, 235;
Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S.46, 83.
Those principles must, in our opinion, determine the
present case adversely to the State. Although the State
does not ask for judgment against the defendant railroad
company for the penalties prescribed by the Oklahoma
statutes for violations of its provisions, she yet seeks the
aid of this court to enforce a statute one of whose controlling objects is to impose punishment in order to effectuate a public policy touching a,particular subject
relating to the public welfare. The statute viewed as a
whole is to be deemed a penal statute. The present suit,
although in form one of a civil nature, is, in its essential
character, one to enforce by injunction regulations prescribed by a State for violations of one of its penal statutes
and is, therefore, one of which this court cannot take
original cognizance at the instance of the State. '
But there is another ground which is equally fatal to the

OKLAHOMA v. GULF, COL. & SANTA FE RY. 301
220 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

claim that this. court may give the relief asked by an
original suit brought by the State. In the provisions of
the Constitution relating to the judicial power of the
courts of the United States it is provided, as we have seer,
that "in all, cases affecting ambassadors and other public
ministers and conuls, and in those in which a State shall
be party, the Suprenme Court shall have original jurisdiction." In Oklahoma v. Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fc
Railway Company, ante, p. 277, it was held that a Slate
could not invoke the original jurisdiction of the court, by
suit on its behalf, where the primary purpose of the suit
was to protect its citizens, generally, against the violation
of its laws by the corporations or persons sued; that the
above words, "those in which a State shall be party,"
were not to be so interpreted as to embrace suits of that
kind. We need riot repeat what was said in the other case.
Without stopping to consider other questions discussed by
learned counsel, we hold, for the reasons stated in the
opinion ,inthat case, as well as because this suit is, in its
essence and mainly, one to enforce a penal statute of a
State, that the bill must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction in this court.
It is so ordered.

